https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52350.The_Stepford_Wives
“That’s what she was, Joanna felt suddenly. That’s what they all were, all the Stepford wives: actresses in commercials, pleased with detergents and floor wax, with cleansers, shampoos, and deodorants. Pretty actresses, big in the bosom but small in the talent, playing housewives unconvincingly, too nicey-nice to be real.”  Katharine Ross stars in the 1975 movie versionJoanna Eberhart is an accomplished photographer. A woman comfortable with herself, in love with her husband, and raising two cha
This is irritating to Joanna, but after some discussion they decide that her husband Walter should join the club to initiate change from the inside.
Her husband Walter meanwhile is spending more and more time down at the club.
Nicole Kidman stars in the 2004 movie versionWalter brings home Dale Coba, president of the men’s club and a famous artist named Ike Mazzard whose sketches of woman set an impossibly high ideal of what a woman should look like in all the women’s magazines.
The group does allow Joanna to participate in the conversation and while they are talking Ike Mazzard sketches her.
But it's the story instead of American women whose husbands would like to control them in the same way and, like Arab men, have no controls on themselves whatsoever.
In Arab society there are men, a few, who do not like the strictures their women have to live under, but most do not object at all.
For those who think that this desire for control of women is not in the nature of the majority of men, I'm talking globally, not just of people living in a couple of rich, secular, emancipated countries in the world, although that said, that is where the book is set.
Ira Levin’s 1972 novel The Stepford Wives is a darkly comedic and satirical modern horror story with cautionary but subtle overtones.Originally and commonly misunderstood to remark upon the growing feminist movement in the late sixties it is instead a scathing indictment on conservative attacks on women’s liberation.
Joanna Eberhart, a smart and talented married mother of two realizes quickly that she does not fit into the picture perfect stylized stereotype of the wives of Stepford who toil about the house in crisp Donna Reed dresses and makeup while their husband’s while away the nights at the Men’s club.
I had become desperately attached to every single character in that slow-paced but brilliant story, and after closing the back cover, I paced my house like a desperate ghoul, ordering books from the library and Amazon, in an attempt to fill the void.Turns out, one of the books in my new stack of arrivals was written just two years after Moving On (McMurtry's novel came out first in 1970), and both cover the theme of the Western woman trying to emerge after a mere millennium or more of mistreatment and casual abuse.
My copy ended up with some thirty dog-eared pages.The Stepford Wives has characters that amount to nothing more than mere sketches of people, and scanty dialogue at best.
The feeling that every little girl has that "I'm not good enough" most of us (hopefully) follow that up with "but at least I'm ME" and that is where the terror of this book lies.What if the ultimate deceiver, the true villain is the one person who should love you the most, your protector, your partner, your husband.
true I was born in 1978, so this was a little before my time, but it hasn't changed all that much even though we want to think so.
The men in this book are truly horrifying beings...
When Johanna, Walter, and their children move to Stepford, everything seems perfect.
Is their a conspiracy afoot or are Johanna and her friend Bobbie imagining things?The Stepford Wives is a paranoid thriller by Ira Levin.
It's a pretty creepy book, though Levin eases you into the waters little by little so you don't notice all the dead animals around the pond until you're up to your neck in it.
When will it be Johanna's turn to join the ranks of the sexually charged housewife drones?On the negative side of the scale, the book is very much a product of its time.
I REALLY do like Ira Levin's style of writing!There's a frightening secret in the town of Stepford, and Joanna & Bobbie hope to get out of Dodge before it's too late, but the Men's Association is powerful and time is running out.THE STEPFORD WIVES is a creepy little satirical novella that proves (some) men are pretty shallow or really were afraid of the Women's Liberation Movement!Suspenseful and deadly read!
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “I want to wish you a sincere and hearty ‘Welcome to Stepford.’” A quaint little hamlet nestled somewhere in Connecticut, Stepford is a place where you can buy your dream home for a mere $52,500 (obviously this book is kinda an oldie but a goodie), your children will attend Grade-A schools and have plenty of friends to play with, and your husband can unwind after a rough day at the office at the local Men’s Club . . . . . And how will
A quaint little hamlet nestled somewhere in Connecticut, Stepford is a place where you can buy your dream home for a mere $52,500 (obviously this book is kinda an oldie but a goodie), your children will attend Grade-A schools and have plenty of friends to play with, and your husband can unwind after a rough day at the office at the local Men’s Club .
My husband should probably read this in order to figure out how to get me to be a little more like this .
When his discontent with having an equal for a wife finally comes out in full force, he reveals the insidious nature of the sexism identified by Friedan: that it isn’t just out there in society; it’s at home as well.In a chilling scene, Joanna becomes adamant about moving away from Stepford and Walter uses all the tactics of the manipulative emotional abuser: He pretends to consider her point of view, but at the same time he calls her “irrational” and “a little hysterical” (87) He tries to arouse guilt by explaining how hard it would be on the kids.
Whether you've read the book or seen any of the film versions, when you hear the term "Stepford wife", you know what it refers to: an immaculate woman in a 1950's throwback poodle skirt, with an impressive rack - and a glassy, eerie gaze.
She's "so busy" with her housework and pleasing the husband she is so lucky to have, she doesn't have time for anything else.The idea behind this chilling social satire is nothing less than ingenious and that is why this book has achieved iconic status.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestIs this a feminist book?I just read this book called YOU PLAY THE GIRL, a book of essays about pop culture written through a feminist lens, and one of the essays was about Stepford Wives - I seem to recall the author juxtaposed it against the Desperate Housewives and writing a good deal about what it means to be a "housewife," whether you're a good one or a dysfunctional one. I really liked what the author had to say, and it actually motiva
This is one of those moments where, in subsequent rereads, the reader wonders: did the members of the Men's Association indoctrinate Walter by showing him what they do to their wives, and did the possibilities of that excite him instead of horrifying him?Towards the end, after Bobbie, a friend to Walter and Joanna, "changes", Walter hesitates when it's time to say goodbye: Bobbie moved to Walter at the door and offered her cheek.
When it all boils down you gonna find in the endA bitch is a bitch, but a dog is a man's best friendSo what you found you a hoe that you likeBut you can't make a hoe a housewife Clearly Dr. Dre has never been to Stepford.
In October 2011, I read Rosemary's Baby, and it was amazing.
I'm glad that I read it before this one, though, because I feel like if I had read Stepford on its own, I might not have gotten as much out of it as I did, even though that's st
I'm glad that I read it before this one, though, because I feel like if I had read Stepford on its own, I might not have gotten as much out of it as I did, even though that's still probably less than I should have.
And in the end, the wives are the ones who suffer.And it's this that makes Levin a genius.
(This is one of the things that I loved about Rosemary's Baby, as well.) I really enjoyed the repetitiveness in the newly Stepfordized ladies' explanations of their recent, err...
Do these fathers want their daughters to end up married to guys like they've been?
I was surprised early in the book that any man would want a wife who is always dressed like every other lady in the town, and who's conversations would have something to do with waxing floors, baking bread, and the best buys they got that day at the supermarket.
You have no right to question him.Rule 16 — A good wife always knows her place.I am almost tempted to try one or two of these things just to see the look on my husband's face when he comes home.
The most terrifying thing about the Stepford men isn't that they objectify their wives into sex-slaves and cleaning-bots; no, the most terrifying thing about the Stepford men is that they don't *seem* like the kind of men who would do that sort of thing.
Terrifying, too, is the fact that these men weren't somehow brought up believing that turning their wives into automatons is the right way to live; the Men's Association has been around for a mere six or seven years, and in that short time *every* man in Stepford has signed on to the barbaric replacement of their human wives with mindless servants.
Everyone knows what a “Stepford Wife” is and what that entails. Due to popular culture it’s hard to avoid spoilers for this novel. Had I not already known the ending this would have been decently suspenseful. Levin has an interesting style. The Stepford Wives is worth the read.
It is not "the easy satire on the banality of suburban housewives that it is commonly taken to be - a misconception that has installed its title in our language as shorthand for those homemakers who affect an uncanny perfection." This resulted in the fact that, after Ann Romney's recent speech at the RNC, I was asked whether I thought she was "like a Stepford Wife." No, she's not.
Unlike most film-adaptations, several scenes have been added to the novella, and fairly little was cut, resulting in a rather long movie (for 1975 sci fi, anyway).
Also unusual for a film-adaptation, the movie has more explicit sexual references than the book does, and plays up that side of what the men are “up to” while the book leaves this largely to the reader’s imagination.
This book is even scarier than the original movie, although the movie provides more background and explanation as to how the murderous bits would actually work.While some of the organizations and details in the story may be "dated," the core horror of this book is still -- and will always be -- with us: How well do you really know your significant other?
Not only does he assume you've already read the story, he's pretty tone deaf when it comes to the issue of male/female relations.
(view spoiler)[ He considered Walter masturbating at the thought of killing and replacing his wife "the funniest revelation" of the book.
Last year, my favourite book was Rosemary’s Baby by Ira Levin, so I instantly wanted to pick his work back up again, but I got side-tracked.
It’s another 5 star read!I am amazed at the skill of Levin’s writing.
He’s one of those authors that doesn’t pepper his novel with the unnecessary, it’s very simply written but not in a juvenile way.
While I’ve only read two of Levin’s books, I can already see a trend in his work.
This isn’t a classic horror novel, but it’s very psychologically disturbing, similar to Rosemary’s Baby, although I feel like that one was more terrifying.
Like his Rosemary's Baby, this tells the story of a likeable wife being utterly betrayed by her own husband for his personal benefit. This is more sci fi, and here the conspiracy is bigger (the whole town!), but they both involve the husband using her body for his own happiness and success.
A very complex book: a commentary on the way we look at women and the role women have been assigned for centuries. The horrific aspect of the novel is that (in the end) the real question is: who really has lost their humanity?
It's a conversation starter, with no two readers likely to agree on what was going on in Stepford, what happened to the characters or whether the women's movement might provoke some sort of retaliation from men.To grab me by the throat, a good thriller needs credibility on a basic level.
Whatever The Stepford Wives is, Levin never grabbed me by the throat.
Here is Levin's joke: "What if men were so threatened by the women's movement that they murdered their wives and replaced them with, wait for it, robots!
However, I do think the book is worth reading.
. I think it played on the concerns of women at that time, as their role in the family was starting to change.I think the book is alot more ambiguous than the film.
Although there is a change in Joanna at the end, we're not told conclusively how it came about, like we are shown in the film.
But whether this change is due to madness or to a secret agenda by the men in the town, either explanation is frightening.
My main problem and probably the reason I'm so disappointed can be summed up this way, on the back of the book there is this a praise by Stephen King:"Every novel [Ira Levin] has ever written has been a marvel of plotting.
He is the Swiss watchmaker of the suspense novel." - Stephen King I absolutely agree that Ira Levin is an amazing writer and to have come up with and popularized this story I give him full credit and praise.
A super fun, quick and easy read. I wish I had gone into it not knowing what it was about, as it meant the majority of the suspense and the ‘big reveal’ were a little wasted on me but it was nonetheless an entertaining read and I’m now super intrigued to watch the movie adaptations, as I’m hoping they will add a depth to the plot I felt this was slightly lacking in.
I have know of the film from my early days of following science fiction (it was often listed along side Westworld as classic in robots are replacing us lists) but it has taken till now for me to finally get round to reading the book.And I must admit I thoroughly enjoyed it - rather than focusing on the idea of being replaced by technology, which was heavily played upon in the film- and in the process stoking the male fantasy of dominance and servitude - the book for me focused more on paranoia and loss of personal identity - and for me the book is all the more chilling for what it implies - rather than the films and what it depicts.The introduction by Chuck Palahniuk is also worth reading - explaining the environment the book was written and the issues that were playing in the mind of Ira Levin at the time of his writing it (being written in 1972).
But once Joanna started noticing things with the women of Stepford, I couldn't put it down.
I read it in about 1-2 hours.I love how it's not a typical horror that we'd see now.
I found the changes in the women to be quite disturbing to read about.
I didn't find myself overly scared reading this but I know if I was watching the movie of it, the ominous feel of the whole thing would definitely scare me!
I'm looking forward to reading more of Levin's books, especially Rosemary's Baby.
Overall, awesome book and very quick to read!
Videorecensione: https://youtu.be/gUF0h8i41WU
They've become slaves to their homes and their families, and somehow they are even worse off than the women in this book, because they also go to work.
These were real, living, vital women earlier too!
And now, there is an explanation ...!This really has to be the creepiest book I have read in my life, because it feels so real.
There are men who would actually prefer this than have to deal with real women as equal human beings.
I know men like this!
Of course, there are some weak plotting points in the book.
It’s why the true horror of The Stepford Wives is far from fiction because it breathes down our necks as fact.Our heroine Joanna Eberhart is a photographer, wife, mother, and a progressive woman who thinks and speaks for herself.
The 1975 movie starring Katharine Ross shows you how quickly Walter is initiated into the association and from viewing the film I now believe he moved his family to Stepford on purpose --- he knew the community was like this.
I wondered if the inclusion of Ruthanne and her family was sort of a secondary commentary on Black people being integrated into White suburban communities during the time this book is set?
I thought this story was good, but strangely enough the movie with Nicole Kidman was far better. For once the movie fleshed out the story more than the original book, plus the movie had a much better, more satisfactory ending (although maybe not as disturbing).23/1/2016 - Just watched the Nicole Kidman movie for the first time since reading the book and I definitely like the movie's ending better than the book's.
