https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/83083.Birds_of_a_Feather
I'm giving up on this series. I want to like it, but I just don't. I'd like reasons behind her solving cases instead of mystic hunches. The set-up is great. The character not at all.Also this book particularly annoyed me. Throughout, the author kept pointing out how little Maisie ate. All these comments about how she'd forgotten to eat breakfast or how she peeled the batter off her fish. I started wondering if the author wrote this while dieting since it added nothing to the character or the story.
Have you ever stayed up late to finish a book not because you're enjoying it but because you want to put yourself out of some misery?
It's not awful, but it shows none of the command of characters, plot, action, really - everything that matters in a great novel - that the first Maisie Dobbs book I encountered possessed.
Maisie spends the entire novel traveling from place to place.
The emphasis on feeling the vibes in this place or that made her seem quacky and not intelligent, in contrast to the Maisie we encounter in later books in the series.
While I enjoyed the first in this series, this second book has me wondering if I really want to continue reading about Maisie Dobbs.
There are also subplots with Maisie's father and partner that feel tacked on and, quite frankly, poorly distract from the actual case-solving.
I'm likewise not so thrilled with her partner (often there for Maisie to bounce ideas off of in a condescending way), her father (passive-aggressive), or teacher (dude would be a "Magical Negro" if he were black, my god).
Mostly, everyone feels like a 2-dimensional cut-out and not fully-fleshed people.I have the third in this series on hold at the library and will hesitantly give it a whirl.
After finishing this book, I made a list of what I didn’t like about this book (don’t worry, it’s not exhaustive) so that, whenever I start to think I should give this series another chance, I can read this list and remember why that would be a waste of good reading.
When an author bases a scene or resolution off what one character says or does, please make sure said action would make a normal person step back and go “yep, understand why that would evoke that reaction.” Having a character go into a murderous rampage because someone gives him a slice of cake doesn’t make sense unless it’s explained, for example, that the government programmed that person to go into a murderous rampage if served cake.
It's a good cosy mystery but not great.
Maisie is finding her feet as a fledgling private detective in post WWI London and the author seems to be doing the same with this series.
There is also an element of psychic powers creeping in where Maisie closes her eyes and senses what happened before in the room used as a device to move the plot on, which I found not very believable.
Overall, a solid but somewhat slow cosy mystery.
The series is highly rated so I'll continue with it in the hope of improved plots and character development.
the 2nd in a series - always a test to see how well the characters hold up, and I thought these did - actually liked this book better than the first one. the characters were more developed (maybe seemed a bit more "real", not that I was looking for that, but it struck me as a good thing when I was reading) and there seemed to be more of a real mystery this time. more themes about WWI and loss. and I love that Maisie might be ready for a new relationship. I'll definitely read more of the series.
I really grew tired of the plot device whereby the author hid essential information from the reader that Maisie had in order to keep me from figuring out the mystery.
"Maisie sat down with Mr Jones and began to ask the questions that had been forming since she'd met with Mr Smith.
But instead of having that all tumble in at the end deus-ex-machina style, which I don't like either, we get "teased" throughout the book: "Maisie's hand closed around something small under the cushion, but she slipped it quickly into her handkerchief." I guess the "mystery" couldn't hold up to the reader's scrutiny: just as in the first book, if I'd learned of the clues at the same time as Maisie, I could have solved the mystery probably a third of the way through.
I really enjoyed this!
It's a murder mystery set between WWI and WWII in England.
Maisie is a self employed PI.
She's been hired by a very wealthy man to find his adult daughter, who was single and lived at home.
Maisie discovers this woman has had several friends who have been murdered.
Reading this reminded me of watching a Masterpiece Mystery on PBS.
It has no bloody violence or gore.
Just a good old fashioned murder mystery.
I bought this book many years ago and did not realize it is #2 in a series but the author did fill in a bit that is probably in the first book.
Reading a Maisie Dobbs book is like eating comfort food.
There are such good supporting roles (Maurice Blanche, Lady Rowan, her father, Billy, and more are being added...) It's nice facing life's challenges with such a crew bouying you up, I imagine.
Each day we're torn down in new ways, built up in others, morphing into better creatures, we hope.I had to chuckle at the book's plug for Pilates.
Mine seems to be books more than anything.
I really loved Lady Rowan's remark about how war isn't really over when it 'ends', but continues on in the living.
It is now 1930, and this second installment in the Maisie Dobbs mystery series finds Maisie's detective services requested by the rich grocery chain owner Joseph Waite, whose 30+ year old daughter Charlotte has run away from the family home and her feckless lifestyle.
Might Charlotte make up a fourth death, or is Charlotte a murderess?While I completely enjoyed this foray back into Maisie's sleuthing world, I found Birds of a Feather did have some problems with it, IMO.
That being said, this installment provided another entertaining mystery for the reader who enjoys a more unconventional detective.
I will continue reading the Maisie's Dobbs series to see what else Winspear has in store for her creation.
4 STARS"It is the spring of 1930, and Maisie has been hired to find a runaway heiress. When three of the heiress's old friends are found dead, Maisie must race to find out who would want to kill these seemingly respectable young women before it's too late. As Maisie investigates, she discovers that the answers lie in the unforgettable agony of the Great War." (From Amazon)I like how Winspear balances out the cases with Maisie's past and how it affects her present. The secondary characters are great as the main ones.
3.5 starsBook #2 in the Maisie Dobbs seriesI liked this second book better than I did the first book of the series.
In this book as Maisie starts to clear up the murder of 3 women and the disappearance of another, we find two eligible professional men that have their sights on Maisie.
Once you are used to the cockney language in these books, you find Winspear creates a clean, non-violent mystery.
She does a good job of tying her books together, although so far it appears that each book can also stand alone, as the mystery is cleared up within that book, while other issues are carried over.
I've decided that Maisie Dobbs and Nancy Drew are very similar characters.1.
They have no concerns with money (Maisie did in her childhood but now has a benefactor and works; Nancy had her father)3.
They both love to drive their sporty vehicles fast (although Maisie has yet to wreak her car; Nancy did in nearly every novel)4.
Everything always works outHow they are different:Maisie is dealing with problems that stem from the WWI aftermath.
In this last novel, Maisie learns about the devestating affects of the "Order of the White Feather." I found that bit of history to be fascinating.
The subject of Birds of a Feather is pain—the kind of physical, mental, and emotional agony that exists only in real life and in the very best literary fiction.
And yet, the story is very beautiful.I categorize the books of the Maisie Dobbs series as "literary" rather than "mystery" because the focus is not really on the plot.
Although they are well structured and provide plenty of suspense, the novels of Jacqueline Winspear are very rich in terms of the other elements of fiction: namely, character, theme, and setting.
By this afternoon, I will have the next in the series.
This is a very good second outing for Maisie Dobbs.
There is a much bigger mystery element than in the first book, where a lot of space is taken up on telling Maisie's back story.
This book does give a good feel for life after the First World War, and the ramifications this still had.
The murders that form the core of the book have their cause rooted in events that happened during the war.
It will be interesting to see how that develops in the next few books in the series.
If you enjoy historical mysteries I would certainly recommend this series.
I almost had to use a bookmark in this book because I would open the book to a driving scene (of which there are many...) and not even realize it wasn't the one I had left off on.I also had difficulty remembering the names of characters she introduced and often had to stop reading and recall who was who and what they were.
As for the culprit, it wasn't very ingenious at all.
We were hardly introduced to the culprit in the first place (to the point where you practically forgot the person existed) and in the second place every clue as to who it was was cut out of the book.
Very ingenious, Mrs. Winspear.
מייזי חוקרת את היעלמותה של שרלוט וייט.
סוג של תקשור על טיבעי שממש מגחיך את דמותה של מייזי ואת שיטות החקירה שלה.
אומנם מדובר בתחילת המאה ה 20 אבל תחושה של החדר וקבלת מסרים ניסתרים ועל טיבעיים נראים לי קיצוניים גם לאותה תקופה שלא לדבר על כך שהם משדרים שרלטנות וחוסר רצינות.בעיה אחרת היא עלילת המתח הדי קלושה, ובשליש האחרון כבר ניחשתי מי הרוצח.
גם בספר הראשון עלילת המתח היתה קלושה להחריד.למרות זאת הכתיבה טובה והאווירה התקופתית מצויינת.
מייזי קצת פחות מוסרנית ופחות מעצבנת והצלחתי להנות מהקריאה וגם ללמוד משהו על מסדר הנוצה הלבנה, סוג של תעמולה מבוססת על פעילות פסיכולוגית שנועדה לשכנע את המשתמטים ואת הבנים שלא רצו להתגייס לצאת למלחמה.
4 Solid Stars! This was a real improvement from the first book! The mystery was good without been fantastic but again what made this book better was the accuracy of the historical content and the characters. I still no loving the main character but not hating her either. The supporting characters have grown in this book and I think they make the main character more believable. Looking forward to the next one in the series even more after this one...
I've enjoyed the hunt for the murder it was a shock. on to the third book next month
I cannot put into words how I feel about this book - at least not right now. I am still crying, shaking my head in frustration and am suffering from book hangover. Perhaps, after a couple of days, I will be able to do this book justice with my feeble words. Until then, just know that I highly recommend both this book AND this series.
I like Maisie.
She isn't afraid to do the right thing, even if it means getting her hands dirty or asking difficult questions.I certainly like the historical aspects of this novel: the White Feather Girls and the mention of Joseph Pilate and his successful physical fitness routines that are still popular today.Many reviewers are put off by Maisie's methods of "feeling" the crime and using all of her senses.
It's refreshing and believable.This particular story touches on some sensitive and important topics: drug addiction, damaged war heroes and their care, aging parents, and acknowledging and accepting the value of women.The ending leaves us with a bit of a mystery.
A young, female detective in London in the years after World War I sounds like a great premise for a mystery series.
The mystery in "Birds of a Feather" is actually compelling, with good plot twists, strong details, and clues, but the writing is something I just can't get over.Maisie Dobbs herself is drawn to be just a little too perfect and a little too precious.
In a mystery series, I just can't stand for the main character to have "shiny, jet-black tresses," or to constantly be pushing "loose tendrils" of hair out of her face.
This is the second book I read about Maisie Dobbs and in many ways I liked it better than the first.
I know the characters from before and enjoy the personal developments in both detective-psychologist Maisie and her assistant Billy.
It quickly turns out that the disappearance of Charlotte is in connection with the murders of women who once were her friends, so Maisie gets more to chew on than expected.There are few supernatural/paranormal elements in all of this which fit in quite well, but which I don't like.
I also suspected who the murderer was about half way through, but that didn't drag the story down either.
I'm having a bit of a hard time with Maisie's Mary Sue-ness. She seems too good to be true, always knowing just what people need from her and successfully fulfilling those needs. Also, her intuition about cases borders on the supernatural, but is never treated as such. Odd, to say the least. Apart from those gripes, I continue to enjoy learning about WWI in this series and overall do like the recurring characters.
When I was recently invited to join a small book club under the auspices of something of a celebrity librarian where I live--she organizes successful events and authors readings, many of which I have attended over the years--I couldn't resist accepting.
Including the first book on the list: Maisie Dobbs by Jacqueline Winspear.
As for me, I'm pleased to have been nudged into reading this detective novel, even as I continue to be less than a fan of the genre, but a fan won over by Maisie Dobbs.
A good read. 3 stars feels like a solid rating for this one. I am still enjoying the sense of time and place and the mystery was pretty good, kept me guessing up until the end. If I wasn't reading this for a series group read, I might take longer to get to the next one but I'll be picking that one up next month. Maisie is an interesting character so I'm looking forward to her next case. I don't always love her methods but it's not getting in the way of enjoying the story.
Digital audio performed by Kim Hicks The second book in the Maisie Dobbs series has Maisie’s private investigation agency established with an office, and a full-time assistant, Billy Beale.
She’s proven herself to Inspector Stratton of Scotland Yard as well.
But when Maisie is asked to track down a missing heiress she begins to find clues that point to a connection between her case and Stratton’s murder investigation.
I like this series.
I also appreciate the growing relationship between Maisie and Stratton.
I’ll keep reading this series.Kim Hicks does a fine job of voicing the audio book.
This book is better than the first with the writing style a bit more fleshed and the characters more developed.
I did find myself wanting to know what happens, not just with the crime in this book, but also to Maisie herself.
I have the third book from the library, and may attempt it, but feel it's a shame this series just has not lived up to expectations so far.
It seems the style continues, as well as the occasional mysticism / spiritualism.
I wouldn't want to give credit to any of these by continuing with this series.
Maisie Dobbs, psychologist and investigator, is asked to try and find a businessman’s daughter.
Maisie is dubious about the case because she suspects Mr Waite’s motives as his daughter, Charlotte, is an adult and cannot be compelled to return to her father’s home.
There are interesting characters and motivations and a well drawn historical background.
Her business is helping her to establish herself and Billy Beale, her assistant is settling into his job and proving his worth.If you like your crime novels with added depth and then try this series.
Maisie herself has many interesting qualities and is developing into a well-rounded person with problems of her own to solve.
She has proven herself as a psychologist and investigator, and has even won over Detective Inspector Stratton of Scotland Yard's Murder Squad - an admirable achievement for a woman who worked her way from servant to scholar to sleuth, and who also served as battlefield nurse in The Great War. It's now early Spring of 1930, Stratton is investigating a murder case in Coulsden, while Maisie has been summoned to Dulwich to find a runaway heiress.
The woman is the daughter of Joseph Waite, a wealthy self-made man who has lavished her with privilege but kept her in a gilded cage.
