https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31685789-room
It’s like Donoghue didn’t know what she wanted her book to be – the claustrophobic story of captivity inside a small room and how it limits the emotional and intellectual growth of a five-year-old or how a five-year-old who’s been imprisoned in an 11x11 room all his life can mature and be a hero.
None of us, including Donoghue, can have it both ways.Once we realize that Jack and “Ma” (we never do learn her name) are being held captive, one would think that Room would take on a sinister, suspenseful atmosphere and leave us wondering what “Old Nick” is going to do next.
As you begin reading this story of a boy who has spent his entire life locked in one small room, the son of the unfortunate Ma (who is never named, because she's Ma), who was kidnapped and has been kept in the room for the last seven years, it does seem too cute: all the objects in Room are proper nouns with genders, like Floor and Bed and Duvet and Wardrobe, which kind of makes sense because to Jack, they are the only onlys of those things in the world, because the whole world is Room (he has a TV, which he thinks shows make-believe things that live on planets inside the TV).
Such a gripping and emotional read! I'm glad I finally took the chance to pick this up and read it.
i think i'll save writing a review for a little bit and let it sink in for a while.__________it's hard for me to define exactly why the first half of the novel was so hard to get through.
the anger i felt in the second half was of a kind that is more comfortable, more familiar - towards the media, towards pop psychology, towards various institutions and the like.
at the end of the second half, the end of the novel itself, i read those last few sentences over and again, closed the book, and cried.
I got none of that here, due in part to the emotional immaturity and lack of comprehension on the very young main characters' part, and in part due to my frustration and annoyance at the five year old narrator.The little boy's is haphazard, almost a stream of consciousness narration.
In that sense, maybe the book is fairly true to the depiction of kids, because to be honest, a lot of kids are pretty damn annoying to me.Maybe this kid is annoying because he doesn't know anything outside Room.
This book was hell.The story of Ma is pretty awful, because she's been kidnapped and raped and locked up.
Healthy ambition is a laudable trait and I admire people willing to reach beyond their grasp in the attempt to achieve something special.  I respect the author’s choice to write a dark-themed story narrated entirely from the perspective of a five year old boy. While the unreliable narrator is nothing new in literature, its deployment here felt fresh and so I give points for that. Unfortunately, that is about all I can give points for because the novel itself was a huge miss for me. Huge!! Obviou
Obviously, the story is intended to be an emotional ordeal with its depiction of a young woman and her 5 year old son being held captive in a garden shack (the eponymous “Room”) by a sociopath named “Old Nick.” At the beginning of the story, the woman, who was 19 when she was abducted, has been in the Room for almost 10 years.
If I had found the emotional tether that could have pulled me into the Room with Jack and his mother, my feelings for the book would have been much different.
And in the beginning of the book, I was content enough with the developments of the story, as the reader gets to know Jack and his Ma and the Room in which they've lived for so many years.About halfway through, however, I started to become impatient with the constraints of the format the author had chosen.
Having a 5-year-old narrator became an extremely frustrating exercise, both in terms of his (understandable) unwillingness to comprehend or listen to certain things and in terms of getting a truly emotional take on the experience.
غرفة : عندما ترى العالم بعيون طفلفي كلِّ مكانٍ في العالم ستجد عيون طفلٍ متسعةتتلألأ فيها الرغبة في ا
If you were married, I’d think you were building a man cave to get away from the old-ball-and-chain, but since you’re single, I guess you’re just planning on spending a lot of time in that shed.”“Uh, yeah.
You’re aren’t going to have to worry about any kids breaking into that.”“Uh, yeah.
She has a plan for them to get out of Room, but Jack can’t believe that the things he’s seen on the fuzzy TV screen for years are real.
In my opinion, Room surpasses that book because the protagonist feels more real; Donoghue accomplishes the job of not only getting inside the head of a child, as Boyne very cleverly, but more cloyingly did, but she also has a protagonist who’s only experience of the world is a television with four fuzzy channels and his mother’s stories, which adds a whole new, tougher and more horrific, dimension.In describing the lives of these two captives in this tiny room, Donoghue exercise as much, if not more, imagination than creators of entire universes, like Tolkien.
You know how sometimes you struggle reading thick classic novels?Well next time you read Moby Dick, consider yourself lucky it isn’t Room, because this is the #1 most gruelling story I’ve ever (willingly or unwillingly) read.I know the narrator is five years old, so I shouldn’t hold it against him that he’s constantly distracted and rarely focuses on the important stuff (like the kidnapping part), but the truth is, there’s a reason why five-year-olds don’t publish books.Clearly this is a success, and the average rating is actually very high, considering how bad the writing is.
No because I think it’s very much okay to want to put a book down when said book is giving you a headache.I know what I like, and I know what I need, and this is not it.
Not surprisingly, his son believes the whole thing (kids are pretty dumb, right?) and he is able to maintain this ruse right up until the Allied invasion.
So, Room is kind of like that except without the Allied invasion.
Here you’ve got this 5 year-old kid whose mother feeds him a pack of lies to prevent him from knowing the truth about their actual state of existence—which is that they are trapped in someone’s backyard shed and probably will never see the light of day again.
What I can say, however, is that the entire novel is narrated by the 5 year-old schmuck, and while this may sound like it could be annoying, it really isn’t.
I read this book a couple of years ago and it remains a favorite.
Dora the Explorer was on TV as I was flipping channels the other day and I immediately thought of this novel again.
Told from the point of view of five-year-old Jack (child-speak and all) was unexpected but ended up being wonderful.
I could feel the love she had for Jack while she struggled to keep it together for herself and her son.
When I was a little kid I thought like a little kid, but now I'm five I know everything."
The quality of the writing is not sufficient for 3*.Overall, I think it’s poorly written (exacerbated by the way Donoghue tries to use unusual language for specific effect), but it is something of a page-turner, it’s quite a quick read (unless you overempathise, get depressed, and need a break) and it does contain some interesting ideas, especially in the second half about aspects of coping with “freedom” (though I am unsure how many are taken directly from news reports and interviews with former captives, and how many are her own).OVERVIEWThe situation is well-known: a twenty six year old woman, “Ma”, is living with her five year old son, Jack, in a tiny locked room.
What makes up the world to five-year-old Jack, our window into life in Room?
Jack and his 26-year-old mother get through their days with a strict schedule, a rich imaginative life and absolute love for each other.
Jack has never seen the outside of their eleven-foot-square room.
A child and mother held prisoner for so long is nothing less than a horror story.
But while a real-life horror story may have been a basis for the book, Room is not a downer.
Ma makes a real life for Jack.
I was convinced by the voice Donaghue gave Jack, the true strength of her writing here.
argh), but I did end up enjoying it once I got further into it!This book's main selling point is that it's not just your average trauma story of being locked in isolation-- it's told through the eyes of a child, and that room is all he's known for his entire life.
A Book Room to Remember.. Definitely will change how you see the world after leaving it.قصة، بل حجرة ما أن تخرج منها ستتغير نظرتك للعالمAs Jack saying Good-bye, Room., I felt really sad leaving..I became a "Roomer".. As Jack & his Ma. “When I was a little kid I thought like a little kid, but now I'm five I know everything.” Our Amazing Narrator, Jack, when he turned five he learns a shocking truth about his whole 5-years life..“Jack, Yer a wizard captive.”Yes, he has been born in Room where
Definitely will change how you see the world after leaving it.قصة، بل حجرة ما أن تخرج منها ستتغير نظرتك للعالمAs Jack saying Good-bye, Room., I felt really sad leaving..I became a "Roomer"..
but no matter how miserable, when you see it with the eyes of 5 years old Roomer like sweet great smart Jack..it's so fun, it's so good...yet my heart ached a lot..You'll feel how amazing job the Ma did to make Jack smart, well educated, healthy, have a fine Art touch, Eating well...Reading well too..His Ma is simply the best Ma in the World.....
Room by Emma Donoghue is one of these books.The plot is well-known to everyone, so there's no point to bore you with that.
There is an intense feeling of claustrophobia in the 2/3 of the novel, I guarantee you that you will feel your heart pounding, even though you may suspect what's coming next.What makes Room so unique is the way Donoghue chooses to speak to the reader.
Room is a fine example of the way a novel can move you and make you nervous, frightened, frustrated and hopeful- all at the same time, mind you- without forcing your feelings with clichés and hysterics.
Emma Donoghue was given a $2 million advance to write Room.
It takes talent to write in the voice of a child, which is precisely why so few authors are successful at it.
When a good author writes from a child's perspective, the book becomes a classic.
Don't forget to throw in some of Donoghue's own politics for fun: our 5 year-old is still breastfeeding and he loves to tell us which boob produces the creamiest milk.
I spent half the time wishing someone would throw the narrator back in the room so he'd shut the hell up.
This book didn't have a chance with me.1.
It was written from the perspective of a five-year-old boy.2.
For the first two thirds of the book the kid was annoying.3.
The mom breastfeeds the kid a lot.
The kid creeped me out by talking about which boob tasted better.Why read it?
It was this month's selection for a book club I am part of.
It wasn't my pick.Why two stars rather than one?
Well, I'll be damned if I didn't start to feel sorry for the poor kid and like him despite myself.
A writer who can do that to me deserves an extra star.
ARGH! NO! NO! NO! IF I HAVE TO READ ONE MORE ASININE CHAPTER, WRITTEN FROM A FIVE-YEAR OLD'S POV, ON THE MUNDANE THINGS THEY DO IN THE ROOM ALL DAY, WITHOUT HAVING THE PLOT PROGRESS EVEN REMOTELY, I'LL... I'LL...
There is one point where the plot takes a turn in a different direction from Jack's perception (view spoiler)[where Old Nick runs away but you think he's going back to kill Ma (hide spoiler)] but Jack's reality is so real, you don't even consider other options.
Maybe it's that I know what it's like for a child to change your world.
Some of the things Jack made me think about were the autonomy of parents and children and how the line is different for a child than it is for parents.

A novel narrated by a five year old?
I'm not a kid person at all so do not think you need to be a mother to appreciate this story.
There is something about Jack's way of looking at Room and at Outside that is refreshing instead of irritating.
It's nice to not be dragged down by all the complexities of an adult narrator for a change and I know I would have given this story less stars if it were told through his mother's eyes.
This is a story that Jack needed to tell and I am very happy that he did.
I willed myself to read this particular book in double quick time.
I won't say what happens in the end, but the ending was dependent on the second half of the book, where we got to know one of the two main characters in the book.There is Jack, and then his mother.
I have yet to watch the movie version, but it's no coincidence that the actress playing the role of Ma, Brie Larson, got the oscar for best actress this year.Jack is sometimes gullible sometimes not.
Us adults lose something when we have understood our version of the Room.
Room is a must read.
i didn't want to know if the book was triumphant or devastating or funny or tragic or philosophical or melodramatic.
if you don't know the plot of this book by now, after all the hype and acclaim, you have yourself probably been living in an 11x11 room held captive by a bad man.
and what can be done with unwanted eggshells?this book is excellent.but i don't want to get too caught up in possible rooners.
i myself want you to be like nell,  all pure and speaking your own bizarre stroke-language, not knowing anything about the greater world, where this book exists.
Obviously this concept has sprung from a real life situation, but to be based on its own merit, I think this is a piece of work to be applauded.
I loved the physical and mental exercise that mum and son did together to keep Jack's body and spirit alive.
I found the relationship between this mother and son to be lovely and real; one to be learned from.
Recommended reading, which to be fair perhaps I should mention this was a book that many people did not like, and I noticed from here on GR that many gave up and did not finish.
Wow is all I can say about this book.It's told from a (very smart) 5 year old's perspective but it is so powerful and moving and great.Now I need to watch the movie, where I know I'll definitely cry.
RTC
This is a book about hopelessness, the dawning of hope, ultimate terror, and rebuilding. What happens in these pages is terrifyingly possible as can be seen in news stories that crop up from time to time about a twisted person who has someone locked in their basement/backyard for years. When I think about that, I get chills with the realization that somewhere in the world right now - even close to home - there might be someone going through exactly what is happening in this book.Read if you like heart-wrenching, super-suspenseful, could-happen in-real-life stories. This one will leave you exhausted!
