https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/537121.Saint_Camber
4.5 stars. This book sets the stage for book 3. This is the calm before the storm. Cinhil secures his throne. Bad choices are made for seemingly good reasons by well intentioned characters.
The closest things to an antagonist are either Cinhil (who is kind of desperately unhappy in his new role as king, and not above spreading some of that around), the folks behind the drive for Camber's sainthood (who are only responding to events as they perceive them), and maybe Camber's own conscience, especially in a situation like this where there are no easy answers.I'm also generally quite pleased with Kurtz' treatment of (explicitly Christian) religion in the books; it's clearly a major part of the characters' lives (as would be appropriate given the historical models for the setting) and treated seriously and respectfully both by the characters and by the author.Given that the final book is called Camber the Heretic, though, I can only assume that there are bad times a-comin' ...
I keep reading these even though I don't like them that much and the gender politics are horrible. WHYYYY, self? (Probably because I like to finish trilogies I have started.) Book 2 was better and more complex than Book 1, but still with the SEKRIT CATHOLIC MAGIK also the *almost gay but NO HOMO* communion of ... uh ... minds. Maybe I'll go cleanse with some Tremontaine.
It wouldn’t all be so troublesome if it weren’t for the fact that we’re clearly meant to see all these decisions as amply justified, because Camber is on the side of Right.
If you’re not interested in a detailed description of sumptuous religious habiliments, you’ll be able to skip long paragraphs.A big appeal of the books for me was always the magic that later generations were slowly discovering.
Camber and crew are bound to discover it just in time.Don’t ruin your memory of this book by re-reading it.
Oh, how I loved these books so much when I first read them.
I was so delighted when they were both published as ebooks and then being covered in a read/reread on Tor.com.At the finish of this one, I find I don't have a lot more to say than a comment I made on the reread post for Chapters 20 and 21 of this book.
I still want to keep reading them, but there’s this quiet disappointment riding along with me that I wish wasn’t happening."
I'm re-reading this book, which I've liked in the past, and my perspective on the protagonist has suddenly changed. "What a manipulative, self-righteous bastard!" I think. Oh sure, there are other characters to provide "balance" and caution, but hey, they go ahead and mess with the humans anyway, invading memories at will and messing with perspectives. This book is rife with lies and deception, and I'm a little sympathetic to the human caution instead of being entranced with the magic, as I have been in the past.
Re-read. Fabulous series. Fantasy as I want to read it.
Of course, the book itself is far more satisfying and has all the richness of historical and liturgical detail that Ms. Kurtz is famous for but I wanted to give a preface to my review of Saint Camber for those reading this review.On to Saint Camber, which starts in the capital city of Valoret after King Imre has been killed and his sister Ariella (pregnant with her brother's child) has been driven from Gwynedd into neighboring Torenth.
And it's competently executed.
And it's clearly written by someone steeped in Catholicism but not evangelical about it so it feels like you are learning about that perspective without being lectured plus there's magic wielders trying to put a lost heir to the throne in order to replace evil, usurping, incestuous sorcerous brother-sister monarchs so really it should be good.But it's let down by the sheer arrogance of the main character who had determined that he gets to judge who should sit on the throne (regardless of the wishes of the chosen candidate) and he gets to decide what counsel his candidate needs and he gets to trample on the minds and wills of everyone else around him and take over identities and distort legacies of whoever he wishes.
This is an interesting book.
One thing that always remains true throughout the Deryni novels is the respect and reverence given to the Christian religion in these novels.
As religion played such an important role during the time that these novels were set, it only makes sense on one hand, but on the other, this is a fantasy world, and the author could take great liberty and have taken all, and any of this story, in any direction.
She has obviously done her homework.This is a very fast moving, action packed, and enjoyable book!
A great compliment to the previous Deryni novels.
The politics of the Church, as well as the politics of Gwynedd, take center stage in this second book of the trilogy.
My reading tastes have also changed a bit perhaps because the minutiae of the various Deryni workings became tedious to me.I also find it difficult to empathize with Cinhil's treatment of his queen.
He becomes a capable ruler without any serious attempt to allow his wife to help him in that role, even though he sees a role model of a marriage partnership in Rhys and Evaine.Since I had a couple of books reserved at the library that just dropped into my online account, I'll be leaving Gwynedd for a while.
Middle books in trilogies can be frustrating, but this novel manages to advance the plot without a huge cliffhanger. Can the drama be sustained with the final book in the trilogy?
Personally I found this a trifle boring, too much emphasis on clerical affairs and intricacies to hold my interest for long and I still don't feel any engagement with the characters
The continuing saga of Camber, a character I alternately find very amusing but at times extremely irritating.
The publication history spans thirty-six years and yet another book has been anticipated for seven years but will probably never be written.In Volume I, the cruel Festillic King Imre of Gwynedd was deposed and died by his own hand as he surrendered to his fate.
From Volume I we continue to follow Camber MacRorie, Earl of Culdi, patron of Deryni magic, and his surviving adult children, son Joram, a priest, and daughter Evaine, who is engaged to Lord Rhys Thuryn, a physician and Healer.
While this trilogy allows for the fact that Camber's just a man, we're clearly still supposed to see him as always on the side of good and right.
It wouldn't all be so troublesome if it weren't for the fact that we're clearly meant to see all these decisions as amply justified, because Camber is on the side of Right.
If you're not interested in a detailed description of sumptuous religious habiliments, you'll be able to skip long paragraphs.A big appeal of the books for me was always the magic that later generations were slowly discovering.
Camber and crew are bound to discover it just in time.Don't ruin your memory of this book by re-reading it.
Considering how pious most of the main characters are, and the fact that every chapter begins with a bible verse (although again, weirdly, none from the gospels), it just seemed a little odd.What is interesting, and the book tries to go into this as part of the endless thinking and navel-gazing, is that (possible spoiler here, but if you read the title, it really isn't) people begin to attribute miracles to Camber working from beyond the grave when clearly he is not dead (of course, only the reader and certain characters know that).
Saint Camber (1978) follows up Camber of Culdi, exploring the early reign of the new king.
Fearing a backlash against the Deryni, because the king rightfully resents all his horrible treatment at the hands of Camber, Camber fakes his down death, and from there, thing spiral slow, very slowly, quite slowly, out of control.If've you've gotten this far, you already know Kurtz's wordy style, which you either like or don't like.
If you like her wordy style, you'll add on stars to this review, but if you don't love a wordy style, then the book is better skimmed.
A mixture of historical fiction, religion, ESP and fantasy, this series plunges the reader into the darker and lighter sides of the human psyche in excruciating detail.
The Deryni are a race of humans that possess unusual talents, most of which could be classified as ESP.
Unfortunately, not all humans believe this, and sometimes what replaces a corrupt regime can be as bad as what went before, especially when fear of the unknown and lust for revenge combine with religion inside those in power.However, even in the darkest moments of history there is joy as well as despair, and love as well as hate.
After reading this series, it is hard not believe that sometimes love truly does survive death.
Cinhil would be entirely believable if he was 12.
He is merely incredibly annoying and improbable at 43.Camber would be entirely believable as a somewhat confused young man of late teens or early twenties (who is assured that his way is the ONLY way).
He is merely incredibly annoying and improbable at 59.The book opens with Camber getting seriously injured on behalf of Cinhil.
His reaction, knowing that the latter dislikes and distrusts all the Deryni?
Hide the injury until he's left the room.
The characters have some meaningful insights, but then they repeat them over and over and over again.
The first time I tried to read it, I fell asleep somewhere within the first and second chapter.
The second time I tried to read it, I wished I were sleeping.
I wanted to liked this book, but the church aspect of the series got to be too much.
The characters are hypocrites.
The king had mistrust for the "Deryni" characters because (in the previous book) they coerced him into becoming king and leaving his monk life through a series of physical force, hostaging, and deception.
This series is one of my all time comfort reading favourites.
Now they are finally available on Kindle I am setting myself up for a full re-read starting with the Legends trilogy.
(The first chronologically, but not the first to be written- like Star Wars, but fortunately unlike Star Wars, the early "prequel' does stand up well)By the time of my favourite Deryni books (200 years later), Saint Camber has fallen into legend, but here we have the story of the man, and how his sainthood came about.
Camber the Heretic (book 3) still to go, but will wait until I need another comfort reading session
This is a re-read, originally read the series back in junior high or so.
I'm certainly not going to give away the big twist of the book, but it focuses almost exclusively on the character of Camber, and I found myself wishing that the story would go back to the side characters, since I found them to be far more interesting (Joram, Evaine, Rhys, etc.) I guess we'll see how the 3rd book in the trilogy goes, but I have some other stuff to read first!
When I first read this, back in the 1980s, I thought it was the weakest in the trilogy. Re-reading it years later I thought it was the best because of the focus on ritual and spirituality. The characters have to do a lot of soul-searching about their decisions.This time around (2013) it fell somewhere in the middle. It's definitely not a stand-alone book. (I didn't re-read Camber of Culdi before re-reading this one, and it would have gained from the background.)
I had a large gap between reading the first book and this one.
I had tried to pick it up right away, but I felt it would have second-book syndrome and all revolve around getting Ariella and be mainly about battles - which I needed a break from.
If only I had kept reading it a little further then, because this book definitely strayed from that and was intriguing and astounding!
I can see why some may find it dull or boring, but I love it dearly.
I'm very much looking forward to the third book and how everything turns out there!
I am really impressed with her storytelling. She has truly created a world in her writings. This is a great backstory to her original trilogy. It has me wanting to thumb through the original trilogy to see if I can find reference to what she covers in this set (the previous trilogy's past). But, alas, I do not own them, so I am without... Highly recommend this to those who enjoy light fantasy and medieval history.
This is one of the happier ones -- mainly about Camber's assimilation of Alister's self and then how they made him a saint. The Deryni have a very tangible sort of faith, the Eucharist for them is more than memorial, it's a sharing. Kurtz mixes faith and magic and sacred things together so they are one, and a step above the mere human's perception. Something to strive for.
Second book in the Camber series. Cinhil is still the reluctant King and Camber loses his influence over him. Camber pretends to be dead so he can impersonate someone else and maintain his power and influence. I think the blend of magic and religion is fascinating in these books. I am still bothered by the high-handedness of the Deryni though.
I am currently reading Saint Camber by Katherine Kurtz.Saint CamberKatherine KurtzFantasy467 pagesWhen Camber of Buidi, master of arcane Deryni powers, led a successful revolution against Imre, his sister Ariella, plotted war against Cinhill, her brother's successor. But Cinhill didn't want a fight, he didn't want power, and it was up to Camber to save crown and country....
I enjoyed it, but not as much as the first. I anticipate liking the third volume better as well, it just seems to be the way trilogy's go. Second book always seems to mostly be setting up for the third.
