https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18455366-the-mystery-of-the-hidden-room
The Mystery of the Hidden Room is a classic mystery written in the style of Sherlock Holmes novels. It is written in the first person concerning a spirned lover who finds finds a gentleman murdered at the stroke of midnight and his X Lover with a revolver in her hand standing over him. The mystery unravles from there. I recommend this book to all who are fans of the Sherlock Holmes books.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
There it is on the front cover "The Mystery of the Hidden Room" by "Marion Harvey".
I do know this now:Marion Harvey was the author of several mystery novels and plays between 1922 and 1935.
I click on it and get:Marion Harvey is the author of "The Mystery of the Hidden Room".That was helpful.
Oh, I just got a site with a "biography" that told me Marion Harvey was an author of mysteries.
And so Dick is gone, and the police are looking for the murderer, but no one knows it is Dick, no one besides Philip who is happy to keep the secret if......Ruth marries him.
Unpredictablethis story had me guessing the whole way through the book. I have read several of the free books on my Kindle, most of which were either predictable, had corny love stories within the mystery, or both. wanting to fulfill my hunger for true mystery, I went to classics. The Mystery of the Hidden Room was just the story I needed. I cannot discuss the story, because I don't want to give away any details. I would recommend this book to anyone
"Murder afoot with a fair damsel in distress." No cussing, sex or graphic violence. No sucker punches. Pleasant after all the gory books lately. Interesting enough to keep attention up. Well-edited Kindle ver., audiobook available, free book, easy read -may be flowery for modern tastes. Considered a modern classic ©1922.
As a mystery story along the lines of Aurther Conyn Doyle's Sherlock Holmes, it was a very good read. Although I had pretty much guessed who the murderer was before I was half way through it was highly interesting to see the how and why of it, as well as a bit of a surprise to learn the truth about the actual victims in this case, there being more then a few.
The first of these was "The Mystery of the Hidden Room."Hidden Room and two other works (one novel, one play) feature Graydon McKelvie, a Sherlock Holmes-worshipping detective.
In addition to noting that the criminal device employed in Hidden Room is noteworthy, SS Van Dine once noted (in "The Great Detective Stories," 1927), "The deductive work done by Graydon McKelvie is at times extremely clever.""The Mystery Of The Hidden Room" is told from the viewpoint of Carlton Davies, whose former fiancee Ruth Darwin was blackmailed into leaving him by the man she ultimately married, powerful banker Phillip Darwin.
Free Public Domain Kindle book The first half was pretty much exactly what I was expecting from the time the book was written.
Read enough mysteries of the time and you know what readers were clamouring for, this book provided them admirably.
Unfortunately, while the book does a good job of building for the first 50%, following the standard lines of the time, the second half and especially the final quarter becomes a bit ridiculous.
This goes from a standard locked-room murder mystery with many people who had reason to wish the murdered man harm and a hidden room to a free-for-all.
Man! I loved this book, read it in 2 days. It was so engrossing that i could not read anything else. And in no way had I expected the identity of the murderer. Blew me away! This is definitely a book I will read again.Wish I could get her second book in kindle, but it isn't out for kindle. Would definitely recommend this book for anyone who likes a good mystery.
Very enjoyable read considering it was written in 1920s. The language is a bit stilted at times but the story is strong enough that you can overlook it. I could not figure out the murderer and was surprised at the ending. This was a free Kindle classic so I had nothing to loose and instead was pleasantly surprised by how much I enjoyed reading this mystery.
What fun! This book is part of the public domain and I love mysteries so I downloaded it. It's a classic whodunit with plot twists, reminiscent nof Sherlock Holmes or Hercule Poirot. I enjoyed this very much.If you like the mystery genre, you will be pleased.
Disappointing. Too many look-alikes, sound-alikes. Too complicated of a plot and obviously contrived. There is at least one loose end that doesn't get tied up.There are some interesting linguistic anachronisms in this text from the 1930s.
A period piece from the 20s that hearkens back to the melodramas of an earlier era, but without the charm of those older tales. It required too much suspension of disbelief even for me. Recommended only for the diehard fan of mystery fiction of this era.
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
Good mystery and interesting characters. Nice twist at the end.
I like these old mysteries from the public domain. They usually are well-written and some have an interesting plot. The price is right, too!
3.5* I had not come across the writer before.Interesting,well-written classic crime with Sherlockian detective, secret rooms, dastardly villain,Chinese henchmen, disguises and a love-interest.Not too difficult to work out the murderer.Here is a link to more information about the little-known author.http://inreferencetomurder.typepad.co...
A classic ‘who dunnit’ story that kept me reading and constantly guessing. I don’t usually read murder mystery novels along the Sherlock Holmes type (note that this is not a Sherlock Holmes novel) but this was enjoyable and suspenseful. My only gripe with it is the racial slurs used to describe African Americans and Chinese background characters, and I had to remind myself that it was written in the 1920’s during those moments.
Good, old-fashioned funThis story has many twists and turns. The characters were as likeable and as interesting as Sherlock Holmes. I was in the dark the entire way through the story as to who the murderer was. This was a great mystery and I highly recommend it .
Locked room mysteryA nice locked room murder mystery. I actually didn't suspect the culprit. A good read, particularly as it is available for free.
The unfolding of the mystery was excellent.
What I found most interesting about this book was that the narrator, Cartlon Davies, was not a detective as detective stories usually go.
Still, he was a suitable stand-in character for the audience and reader, entreating us with the hunger of ignorance, waiting for McKelvie to reveal more and more meals of knowledge.
McKelvie himself, though clever, shrewd, and brilliant, was an okay character.
He felt more like a tool for the plot to advance the sequence of events and piece together logical parts of the case (whereas Davies added the sentimental).
Written in 1922, this mystery borrows a little from Sherlock Holmes in the character of Graydon McKelvie, the sleuth who solves the mystery.
Carlton knows it can't be true, but how can he prove it?Carlton and McKelvie work together to sort throught the truths and lies and missing information, find the missing characters who have information, and make sense out of the unusual clues of the case to come to a solution.The story moves at a good clip and is written in the style of the period, making it a fun escape read.
An enjoyable read! First published in 1922. Not as humorous as the Sherlock Holmes stories, but features a similar detective, who actually idolized Holmes. Kept me guessing in the many twists and turns of the plot. I listened to this as a free download from LibriVox.org.
Nice murder mystery with great charactersI'll admit I "purchased" this book on Kindle because it sounded interesting and more to my liking it was free. However, I quickly found myself immersed in the story and characters. It's a fun, quick read that I thoroughly enjoyed. Though it can seem a bit slow paced at times, the likability of the characters kept my attention and I read the book in two sittings finding myself unable to put it down. I would recommend this book to young and old as there is no foul language or untoward relations to navigate.
Good read!I like reading good,mysteries and this one was interesting. I liked the time period, the fact that it takes place in NY and that it has a good vocabulary ( there were words I had to look up). If you're looking for a good, clean, and entertaining story I encourage you to give it a go. Happy reading.
Excellent except the endingMystery stories are always intriguing. I admire the authors for their cleverness, but there always seems to be at least one event beyond credibility. This book avoided this fault until the end, which was not credible. Still, it was very enjoyable except for the narrator's continuing ignorance.
Clever Page Turner!This story is set in the early 20th century in New York City.A jilted fiance and an intuitively intelligent detective are determined to prove a woman's innocence in a murder charge. Although all the evidence points to her, the two men doggedly follow the subtler clues to find the real killer.Really enjoyed this.
Hidden room(s)?It seemed to take forever to get to locating a hidden room, or two? This book includes good characters, a good mysterious tale, and is a good read. If you like twists and turns in piecing out a murder story, then give this a try and don't be perturbed by it taking a while to locate that secret room, or was it two? ;)
This book was a bit slow moving at the beginning and slightly confusing simply because it is an older book, but it is a very interesting read. It is a original "who did it" murder mystery with an amazing plot twist that will blow your mind.
GreatGood book. Plenty of mystery and suspense to keep me reading. Keeping in mind it's early 20th century, gives the reader insight into the times.
Interesting mystery. Book admits to being a copycat of Sherlock Holmes, which is a bit disappointing. Some racist comments were quite bothersome as well.
