https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/876034.Dragonwings
Summary: This novel tells the story of Moon Shadow's decision to leave the Middle Kingdom and come live in turn-of-the-century San Francisco with his father.
It chronicles his life in America, first in the Tang people's part of the city (what white people call Chinatown), and then living alone with his father among the "demons," as he considers white people.Response: I have never read a Laurence Yep book, and I am so glad I finally did.
He not only chooses a character who can provide me with a new perspective, but he uses language conventions in such a way as to jar me out of my usual position.
Eih it was ok. It was a good plot but hard to want to read consistency.
This is an enjoyable tale of a young Chinese boy who travels to the US to be with his father.
I love the beauty of various cultures and I love stories of friendships that form, allowing different individuals to understand each other a little better and see how those cultural beliefs and practices influence the human being behind them.Too often, we define others by the strange differences we perceive.
People who draw strength and understanding from traditional stories, religion, or folklore.
And in the most beautiful cases - people working hard to realize a dream.Wow, this review got soap-boxy in a hurry.
A man and his son coming to understand each other, their adopted homeland and the power of flight in earthquake-ravaged 1903 San Francisco.Read for work - Loved it!
But I really appreciated that it didn't talk down to the reader but rather, it felt like he was challenging the reader to think bigger than "normal".As I am moving to China and learning more about the culture and traditions of these people, I was quite excited to read about the various festivals and holidays Moon Shadow celebrated throughout his story.
It actually reminded me a lot of  All-in-the-Family books, which teach about various Jewish culture.The story is loosely based on an actual historical figure (a Chinese man did really improve upon the Wright brothers airplane in the US).
Moon Shadow, an 8-year-old Chinese boy, migrates to America to join his father Windrider.
The father and son meet for the first time in their life because Windrider sails to Aemrica before Moon Shadow was born.
Seeing his own father as a stranger at first, Moon Shadow learns to love and respect his father as time passes.
They together make a living by doing laundry for the "white demons" as they called.I was a little disappointed by this book because I was looking forward to learn more about the Chinese culture and making connections to it.
I though dragonwings was a pretty good book I don't know what. I liked about the book and what I didn't but it was pretty decent book
It was a true story that happened in the early 19 hundred.
When I got this book from my teacher the cover was plain.
I didn’t want to read at first but, as I read the story it got more and more interesting.
The best part in the story was when he made the airplane and flew it on the top of the mountain with his father.
It felt very touching when his family flew the airplane with him.
It was touching because the family didn’t support the main character’s dreams at first and the boy never gave up.
For those of you unfamiliar with this method of teaching, it means working with a small group of students (4-8 kids depending) and guiding them through an instructional level book by facilitating discussion, providing meaning, and pointing out details that may be missed by inexperienced readers.
Finally, the book was historically accurate (yes we checked!) and the kids were excited to see it was based on an actual person despite the fact that the story itself was a work of fiction.
As their guide, making predictions about the outcome of the story is one of the big ways to engage student readers, and many of their predictions along the way did turn out to be accurate.
This tale takes place in the early twentieth century and follows a young boy, Moon Shadow, who moves from China to San Francisco to live and work with his father.
It was both painful and inspiring to witness Moon Shadow struggle but accomplish in sustaining pride for where he came from, and to see both him and his father hold onto their dream to fly like the dragons, even in the midst of intolerance and devestation.
I really enjoyed this and I feel like this is one of those stories that stay with you for a long, long time.
A juvenile fiction book about 8 year old Moon Shadow from China who joins his father in San Francisco at the beginning of the 20th Century.
His father, Windrider, kite maker extraordinaire, had been in America since before Moon Shadow was born because their own national government and society couldn't or wouldn't provide employment or means for families to survive.
Windrider worked in a laundry run by the Company but dreamed of being a dragon and flying.
While most of the Company didn't plan on ever bringing their families to America, Windrider worked for that goal.
It is a historical fiction, and based very loosely on the true life a Chinese inventor and aviator who lived in San Francisco in the early 1900s.
Instead, he's faced with a constant onslaught of trial and conflict which he bravely faces, and in spite of all, never ceases to see beauty in the world in which he lives.Dragonwings is a wonderful story.
Those who might be interested in living, for a few days, in the life of a young Chinese immigrant in 1900s San Francisco, can find what they're looking for here.
I'm given to dissing teachers who assign the same old book year after year, and this is the umpteenth time I've read 'Dragonwings' because it was assigned to a middle schooler with whom I was working.
'Dragonwings,' however, is just the greatest of novels on so many levels--as an historical novel, an adventure novel, a multicultural novel, a coming-of-age novel.
'Dragonwings' encompasses everything from the 'I Ching' to E.
So I guess I would say to those fusty pedagogues who pedantically prescribe their perennial books over and over again, stop doing that!
But if you just can't, at least use books like this one.
For me this reminds me of the hard work that my grand-parents had to do for me to be here right now.
It is a story about a boy who's father is in america and now he wants to me meet his father so he goes on this joureny to find his father.
Once he is there they have a good time but other people do not like his father so bad things happen.
then there was a big commotion in the story.
Close to end (as you can see there is a plane that is on the cover) they fly there plane but bad things happen again.
This book was ok, I guess I enjoy the realism of this story as it could be possible but it wasn't a wow. I really enjoyed how at the end of the story Windrider realizes that Moonshadow and his whole entire family is worth more than flying and is fine with just knowing he could fly. I also enjoyed how Uncle started to gaze upon life in a different manner as now he has befriended a demon.
So far it's pretty good!!!!!
This was the worst book I've ever read.
racist
It follows the journey of Moon Shadow as he arrives in San Francisco to join his father, a man he knew only through second-hand accounts and letters.
I found the most rewarding chapters featured how Moon Shadow and his father's developing friendship with Mrs. Whitlaw and her granddaughter, Robin.Recommended to give to children who are interested in historical fiction first and foremost, Laurence Yep has plenty of other Asian American representation books that satisfy contemporary readers.
If they are reluctant to read books without cliffhangers, the episodic narrative may be a turn off even though there is a chapter on the San Francisco earthquake and its aftermath, it comes in late in the novel.
For example, it included the great San Francisco earthquake, death, life challenges, and many more!
The story revolve around a little boy named Moon Shadow, his father (Windrider), and their company.
Moon Shadow travels from China to San Francisco; leaving his mother behind.
Few years later, the San Francisco earthquake happens, and leaves with many challenges and obstacles to survive.
Later, Windrider chases his dream, which he wants to create a machine that will make a human fly (Dragonwings) with help from his son.
" 'It's only a dream of ours, Shadow,' Father said" gently.
Now, I had to read this book for school so it wasn't my choice.
I say this because I normally don't read books with the main theme being flying.
And the story didn't even seem to be about Moon Shadow, for as much of the story is his, his father's parts probably triple it.
You may know that Moon Shadow is shipped off to America to live with his father because he wants him to come.
BUT what you don't know is that he acts like he's not even there sometimes, read the book and you'll see.
I read this book because it was on the "red flag" shelf at our elementary library, waiting to be reviewed by an adult.
There are a few things that cause me to question if this book should not be moved to the middle school/high school library, such as opium use, gambling, alcohol use, violence, mentions of prostitution, some language, etc.
However, these are not glorified in the book; they are presented as things to avoid (even at great cost, such as the man who cut off his right hand after realizing how much gambling cost him, since that was the hand that held the dice).
A young boy from China is sent to live with his father in turn-of-the-century San Francisco, where they work in a laundry service, washing clothing and linens for the demons.
Yep tries to work some magical realism into the story (the father believes that he is a dragon who is being punished by being reborn as a human), but it doesn't quite seem to mesh well enough with the main story of living in early 1900's San Francisco as an Asian and the difficulties that brings.
I've slowly been reading Yep's Golden Mountain Chronicles this month.
Dragonwings has a very different feel from the first four probably because it's at least a decade older than those first books.
The narration style is very different which makes it feel more historical.
The book explains a lot and at first it felt like a book written for non-Chinese people.
As I was reading though, the explanations felt more like they were necessary for historical reference than explaining Chinese culture.
I do like that Yep italicizes English words and dialogue.
This book features a father who came to the United States from China around the turn of the twentieth century and the son who joined his dad several years later.
It's told from the boy's perspective and has elements of a coming-of-age story, but it also touches upon a relationship the father develops, through letters, with one of the Wright brothers, due to their shared love of flying.
The father and son also develop a friendly relationship with their landlady and her daughter (who are Caucasian Americans born in the US) that allows these people from different cultures to come to understand and like each other.
I started out reading this book and really not liking it.
Not because of bad writing.
Because of superb writing.
It hurt my heart on every level.
I didn't want to sit in this sad, hopelessness for 200 pages.Then Mrs Whitlaw comes into the story, and the Company all prove to be loyal enough to be Hufflepuff.The dragon dream along with dream of flight, helps pull the story through when it gets rough and scary again.I could hardly wait to get to the end to see if Father got to fly.
Let me just say the ending is sweeter than I imagined.
Is following your dreams more important then your family?Moon Shadow has never met his father.
He was born nine months after his father left for America (referred to as 'the Demon land').
He is brought up knowing his father as you might know the hero of your favorite childhood book.But then a family friend comes to bring Moon Shadow to the 'demon lands'.
He'll finally get to meet his father.'Dragonwings' was a slow and carefully thought out book, bringing up some very important questions.
Is my dream more important then my family?Can you be happy in such a cruel world?
3.5 stars.Unfortunately, we didn't get to finish this story together, but I couldn't leave the last two chapters unread.
I also feel as if I had read this book before, but can't remember when if I did.Dragonwings follows Moon Shadow's journey of coming to America to live with his dad, Windrider, in the land of the Golden Mountain.
In the Middle Kingdom, the Golden Mountain is full of dreams, but once Moon Shadow gets there, he quickly realizes that life in America is, in fact, the opposite for the Chinese during this time period.The book was slow to start, but after a few chapters it became really interesting.
I've loved this book for years, and I never even realized it was part of a series!
Yay Goodreads for accidentally finding me new books to read!
Dragonwings is a book for young readers, but don't think that means it's childish.
This book deals with some very serious topics, including opium addiction and the treatment of Chinese-Americans.
It's a story of triumph against all odds, and a few really cool kites.
The racial aspects of this story weren't as apparent to me when I was younger, but this is definitely a profound look at white America's treatment of other races, and immigrants' struggles throughout history.
I liked it because of the adventures Moon Shadow goes on. He also meets some family and family friends that he does not know. I like that the reason he goes away from is to find his father in America where these people that they call demons that beat down the tang people.(tang people are the people in his village) One of the best parts was when they talk to a real dragon. These are the reasons why i gave 4 stars.
