https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/81034.Heroes_and_Villains
All we learn is that the people who live in the world described in the novel have been splintered into several groups - the Soldiers (the remnants of the army), the Workers, the Professors, the Barbarians, and the outcast mutant Out People (she describes one as a "not-man", "what seemed to her a cruel parody of life").The Surviving White TowerThe protagonist Marianne is the daughter of a Professor of History, who lives in a white (metaphorically ivory?) tower made of steel and concrete ("it stood among some other steel and concrete blocks" that survived the blast):"Marianne had sharp, cold eyes and she was spiteful but her father loved her."Father and daughter live in an academic community that is much like a rural village near where there are farms of corn, and apple orchards, beyond which there was nothing but marshlands and the "tumbled stone" of ruined buildings.
In one of Anne McCaffrey's books, (I think it was Get Off the Unicorn) she prefaces one of her short stories with a note that in the late 1960s you had to include a sex scene if you wanted to get published in the science fiction world.
What I did not know was that it was going to be hot barbarian rape fantasies.Here's a good indicator of how the times, they are a-changin': when Marianne tries to escape from the barbarian camp, she is easily tracked down by Jewel.
Jewel hits Marianne a couple of times and this is portrayed as worse than any of the raping.
Gods.I can't properly review Angela Carter - her books just seem to reach into my subconscious, grasp hold of me, and refuse to let go.
Like all of Carter's works, it does not benefit from being summarized (the one exception is The Passion of New Eve, because summarizing that one to a naive audience is absolutely hilarious.
Inside the wild, bright colored images there is always this hard, brutal truth, like a heartbeat - This is how it is.I don't know if this is just me.
At times great, at times muddled, Carter's post-apocalyptic fairytale [that is, minus any fairies] manages to both dazzle and sometimes bore, if only because its initially-strong-heroine [Marianne] becomes strangely passive-aggressive as the novel and the adversity wears on.
The climax is replaced by a wind-down, the best part of which is a nightly stroll by a seaside resort, unfortunately capped with the disappointing off-page exit of its lead male character; a young man named Jewel who is strangely ennui-ridden and verges on being a villian himself [he kills the brother of the lead character and later rapes her].
A little heavy handed at times, and showing its age a little (published in 1969), but great fun nonetheless.Complete Review review here http://www.complete-review.com/review...
Actually, imagine the cannibalistic fairies that feature in 'Pan's Labyrinth' and you're more than halfway there to figuring out just how brutal Carter can be in her own re-telling of events.Take our main character for example, one bony slip of a girl called Marianne, who quite literally grows up in an ivory tower surrounded by luxuries.
Within the span of the story, Marianne shows her true colours, as her life with the savage tribe exposes her to vulgarity and sexual assault.
As the story progresses we see how Marianne by instinct has finally found the place where she is most happy; beside the beautiful but violent raven-haired Jewel.
If you want to spice things up in your feminist book club, suggest this title.
This book is by no means anti-feminist, it is just complicated (which is how I like it!).A quote: "I think that in the long run, I shall be forced to trust appearances.
When I was a little girl, we would play heroes and villains, but now I don't know which is which any more, nor who is who, and what can I trust if not appearances?"This was rather slow for me at first, but it got better and better.
At the heart of this novel lies the relationship between Marianne and Jewel.
Everything else is more or less window dressing*; the relationship between Jewel and Dr. Donally, while intriguing, is not satisfactorily explored.
All of the characters, including both Marianne and Jewel, exhibit behaviors one could consider both 'bad' and 'good', playing out the understanding that all people, no matter their status or upbringing, are fallible.
For Jewel and Marianne, it is perhaps most heightened for they are in close, intimate relationship together.
Sometimes I consider this is a good thing when I finish a novel, but in this case I think too much remains unexplored.
Enraptured by a more primitive mode of living, she nonetheless displays great arrogance, is utterly sure of herself, even as she begins to question the heroes and villains on both sides of the divide (admitting that the leisure of her professorial society is what brings madness).
She petulantly savors the aggression she brings to antagonizing him, turning every moment into drama and conflict, dismissing his very real psychological fears with the feminine bias that violence exists only on the physical and sexual planes.
She nonetheless denies his existence outside of sex in order to defend herself, and she no longer sees all that he provides to her materially as anything other than abstraction.
Carter tropes at work: the mutual hate between men & women; raped into marriage; characters who are complacent and complicit in their own physical/ spiritual downfalls; masks/ costumes that are encoded and subsequently decoded I was pulled in by the promise of a post-apocalyptic landscape, but as other reviwers have noted, that isn't really what you're getting here.
It isn't until the halfway point that the book almost picks up with a reveal connecting the characters.
And certainly Carter has never been slave to plot, but not even the characters are sufficiently interesting here to keep my interest.
Heroes and Villains is like the literary equivalent of a Hieronymus Bosch painting.
Strange, oddly fascinating, unnerving and probably quite exhausting if you look at it for too long.
I can't say that I liked it, yet at the same time I couldn't stop reading.
This is one of those books where either everything means something, or nothing means anything at all.
She kept me wondering throughout the novel though - and maybe that's the point?I feel like there's a lot more that I could say about it but my thoughts are pretty disjointed right now, so maybe I'll revisit it later.
Can Angela Carter do anything wrong? No. That is my definitive answer.I haven't read even half of what she has published but the very idea of Carter's death preventing her from writing anything new makes me profoundly sad. I wish I could make literally everyone read something of hers.
The world presented in this particular novella relies on dichotomies: the Professors cannot live without the Barbarians ‘the other’, needing these tribe to define themselves as upholders of reason and progress; an argument between Donally and Jewel regarding Marianne only serves to reinforce the matriarchal myth of Eve or her foil, the demonic Lilith.
Too educated for the tribe, yet educated in the wrong way to ever cross worlds like Marianne and Donally to live amongst the professors.
There’s a part early on in the novella where Marianne asks Jewel if barbarians die of madness, because there is a number of cases where madness has led to suicide and homicide in the towns of the Professors.
Read for a uni subject on Gothic Fiction.
I'd say 3.5 on this one, but would willingly bump my rating up to 4 for Angela Carter--who, even when not in tip-top shape, is simply incomparable in so many ways.The long and short of it: Heroes & Villains is basically a novel of ideas, as is frequently the case with Carter.
Basically, Marianne begins the novel as a typical fairytale orphan; despises the tedium of 'city' life; decides to return to the natural world; becomes entrenched in a Barbarian tribe.
Much can be forgiven an author who writes passages like this:She never felt that time was passing for time was frozen around her in this secluded place where a pastoral quiet possessed everything and the busy clock carved the hours into sculptures of ice.and this:She lost the very idea of time, for the Barbarians did not segment their existence into hours, nor even morning, afternoon and evening but left it raw in original shapes of light and darkness so the day was a featureless block of action and night of oblivion.(I'm not sure why all my favorite passages had to do with the passage of time, that's just how it panned out.)But yeah, as a novel, this really didn't work for me, and went steadily downhill from its opening.
This is another early effort from Angela Carter, and I have to say that it's not one of my favorites.
It's post-apocalyptic and very weird.
The writing and thematic qualities are all there, but the characters themselves bog down the storytelling if that makes a lick of sense.Once again her descriptions of poverty and filth are somewhat gag inducing, but...
I think that's what makes Carter the superb writer that she is, no matter how surreal or fantastical the story, it is always grounded in reality.
Realism is the thread that holds all her work together...
even when that work revolves around a burnt out, post-nuclear shell of a world.
A post-apocalyptic fantasy, set in a bizarre and brutal world.
Its narrative structure borrows from fairy tale and fantasy, so there's a distancing effect that occurs, with the characters coming across as archetypal.
The protagonist Marianne is kidnapped, or runs away (this kind of uncertainty about her intentions runs throughout the book) from the ivory tower of the Professors, to become a Barbarian's wife under terrible circumstances.
These deeply traumatised young people fall in love or a hate that is close to love, for love is dangerous, or impossible, in a perilous world.
As always, Angela Carter's writing is lush and wise.
This was such a beautiful, poetic read. Now I must read all her books for Angela Carter's writing is utterly mesmerizing.
I'm not entirely sure what I was expecting from this but whatever it was, it wasn't what I got.
This story may be relatively short but it has so much going on from a post apocalyptic world where much of our current modern lives have become a mystery to a savagery that is cruel, graphic and yet weirdly tender.
The different civilisations Carter has created are contradictory and yet familiar with each striking a sub-conscious cord, however disturbing.
I can't believe it took me this long to get around to reading this but now that I have, I'm willing to bet I'll be reading it again and again.
★★★☆☆ (3/5)A selection of my favourite passages from the book • ‘We are all arbitrary children of calamity,’ he said in his academic voice. ‘We have to take the leavings.’ • chaos is the opposite pole of boredom, • When they finally destroy us, if they finally destroy us, they’ll destroy their own means of living so I do not think they will destroy us. I think an equilibrium will be maintained. But the Soldiers would like to destroy them, for Soldiers need to be victorious, and if the Barbarians
‘We have to take the leavings.’	• chaos is the opposite pole of boredom,	• When they finally destroy us, if they finally destroy us, they’ll destroy their own means of living so I do not think they will destroy us.
• after the sun penetrated the branches, the trees acquired flesh from the darkness and, as the sky grew light, she saw nothing that was not green or else covered with flowers.
• the Barbarians did not segment their existence into hours nor even morning, afternoon and evening but left it raw in original shapes of light and darkness so the day was a featureless block of action and night of oblivion.
Heroes and Villians is a post-apocalyptic story that is built upon the foundational atmosphere of traditional fairytale narratives, blending together narrative aspects of fantasy stories and the aesthetic of post-apocalyptic fiction.Set years after nature has mysteriously reclaimed the British isles, and where many aspects of western civilization have crumbled, Marianne, a young teenage girl who grew up in a sterile, dull, regimented enclave of intellectuals, flees her tower and descends into the bright, colourful, and uncertain undergrowth of the wilds, where she joins an equally vibrant band of roving barbarians.The story can be a little slow at times, but I believe it is in part due to the novel's rather authentic characterisation; conversations between Marianne, The Outsider, and the tribal peoples are patchy, strained and agitatingly awkward, and at times this slows the pace.
People expecting a proper post-apocalyptic adventure are disappointed.
But amid cynical reflections on the collapse of civilization -- the grim struggles of those who have cast it off, and the erosion of purpose in the hold-outs behind their walls -- what Angela Carter seems to be attempting is some kind of deep analysis of problematic relationships themselves.
It's going to be frustrating because people make decisions with which they themselves can only be frustrated all the time.
Though not to say that this isn't imperfect -- she hasn't here reached her later streamlined state of clarity of word and purpose, and the long slow tangle of emotions as the relationship runs its course leads to a little circularity.
I hate rating these kinds of books.
It's the kind of novel I'd probably enjoy dissecting for a literature class, but for day-to-day reading, not so much.
In other words, intellectually, I'd give it a higher rating, but on a personal level, nothing stuck.Set in a dystopian future, where humans now either live among the Professors (men of reason), Barbarians (primitives), or the Out People (mutant aggressives).
She is forced to marry Jewel, a Barbarian who has been educated to a degree, but they hate each other and she constantly thinks of escape.
Bizarre, violent and fantastical, another strange and provocative read from Ms. Carter.
Amazingly enough, probably the most complicated and almost unlikeable 'heroines' of Angela Carter's so far, but still hypnotic.
Heroes & Villain is a dystopian that has a lot to say about equality and subordination and is yet again another critique from Carter on patriarchy.
Although well-written and probably immensely intellectual when deconstructed, Heroes & Villains failed to sweep me away as her other stories have.
Probably just my reading experience at the moment and not a reflection on the writing itself.
I still love Angela carter :-)Four stars.
The villages are periodically raided by nomadic barbarian tribes, who take ammunition, cloth, food, and women, some of whom go willingly.
And then there are the Out People, mutants who live in holes in the ground, use bows and arrows rather than guns, and attack both of the other groups when they can.Marianne is a Professor's daughter who leaves the safety and boredom of life in a village to live with the tribe who has just attacked her village and finds that it is not like she expected.
This was Angela Carter's fourth novel and I hadn’t even heard of it before finding it at a BookCrossing meet-up.
What a splendid fairy tale.
Dreamlike, but not so much in the sense of surreal.
It's more like, during the course of the novel, rationality slowly ceases to make sense.
A study in otherness.
Forms of life, from thoughts to emotions fail to match familiar categories: the relationship between the two main characters is not a love story nor it is a simple "love / hate relationship", but rather, one of opposite mirrors.
Class and authority are presented as being based on superstition, cultures as incommensurable.The notion of scavenged, makeshift neo-religion among the "savages" reminds me of Margaret Atwood's much later trilogy - both thematically, and in the sense that in neither of the books does it fully convince me.
I went on something of an Angela Carter binge recently because I was writing short stories of my own.
But to read Carter is to entirely immerse yourself in a world that is so vivid, intense, visceral and so emotional has left me emotionally bereft and unable to read anything else for a while.
No one writes like Angela Carter, she was truly one of a kind and her novel (novella?
Set in a marvelously ambiguous post apocalyptic world we the reader tails Marianna; daughter of a professor in twisted society where people live in tight knit society that feed on the weak and unhinged.
I think it's the way Angela Carter allows her characters to have flawed intellectual standpoints and conversations about their highly charged emotions in Heroes and Villains that makes it so good. It's that understanding of the chasm between what you feel and what you think that feeling means. The strangest things happen, and everyone puts a layer of their own thought over these events, but what is ritual to one person might well be trauma to another. Words, however carefully chosen, can't bridge this gap.
I mourn Angela Carter's untimely death more than any writer of our generation. She writes an elegant post-apocalypse, without unnecessary explanation or context-building. Her protagonists give us a real sense of what it's like to live in such a world just by living in it, without narrative tricks to reveal back-history. By making them error-prone and unclear in their thinking, she makes them even more believable. As good as Oryx and Crake, but more organically-real.
