https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90949.Commodore_Hornblower
Horatio Hornblower is recouping in the pastoral English countryside, enjoying - or trying to enjoy - his forced time on shore with his wife and child.
Thanks to his wife's connections he finds himself promoted to Commodore - only one step below a full Admiral!In the ensuing pages Hornblower and his armada bedevil the French, sinking merchant ships and burning a privateer.
In short order the French invade and, thanks to his location, he provides invaluable assistance to the Russian defenders of Riga.
Moreover, the book suffers, I think, from Hornblower being ranked too high.
This story marks a major turning point for Captain Sir Horatio Hornblower, in more ways than one can count.
For the first time, he is based in the chill waters of the Baltic Sea. And for the first time, he is truly calling all the shots, in charge of his own flotilla and given a free hand by the Admiralty.But there is a price to all this advancement.
But more than that, as Commodore, he is one step removed from the teeth of the action, letting others manage the details.
And why not have the sea captain lead a decisive infantry charge from horseback too?
Napoleon is marching on Moscow & Hornblower has to disrupt the French armies around the Baltic & protect England's allies - if he can figure out who they are.
The politics are complicated since many of Napoleon's allies aren't really.
Basically, Hornblower is on shore for a while, takes sword lessons, & stops a mugger with his cane.
Rather than turning him over to the Watch, he foists him off on a captain to put the guy to work since he's just desperate & out of work.On to Lord Hornblower!
Can't stop now!!!
Having finally advanced beyond the finical problems that have dogged him from his days as a midshipman. Now he's married Lady Barbra and moved on now as a well known hero of the British nation.I like these books and recommend you start this journey from it's beginning with Hornblower as a young midshipman.
Another rousing tale of heroics in the fine nautical series by Forester. Hoo hoo HH single-handedly repulses a French siege leading the counter charge on horseback. Stops an assassination attempt on Czar Alexander of Russia, and gets the Prussian Army to join the side of the British. All this after swinging Sweden from neutrality to the British side against Nappie. Could you ask any more from one man? I think not!

He even gets smashed at a party and makes away with a Countess!Also there's a touch of Sharpe about this one (well obviously the other way around) because this feels much more like HH changing history, rather than the action being confined to whatever ship he's in, and whatever one he's going to sink.
In fact this theme is pretty explicitly expanded on throughout as Hornblower meditates on the outcomes of his actions decisively changing the war as he first attacks the French invasion force, indulges in nefarious propaganda ruses, delays the siege of Riga, and leads a counter-attack that turns back a French column.
I think this is my favorite Hornblower book.
I also loved the setting: we don’t generally read too much about the British Navy in the Baltic or in Russia during the Napoleonic wars, so it was a pleasure to learn about that.My delight in this volume might also have resulted from sheer comparison with the BBC adaptations of the series, which I’ve been watching recently.
This is one of those instances where the book simply has much more to offer than the movie ever could.
Hornblower seems to do his best work when he's left to his own devices at sea.
This is one of the better Hornblower books, might be the best one.
He commands a small squadron and is given free reign to do all he can in the Baltic Sea.It's an interesting read with lots of insight into the politics of the eastern front of the war.
That was very interesting for me, as the only other book I've read which discussed the eastern front was the obvious book by Tolstoy.
This one take us to the Baltic at the time Napoleon is invading Russia with a two prong attack, one to Moscow and one to St. Petersburg.
Hornblower is the decisive element in confronting German troops on their march to St. Petersburg.
Quite a bit of history here that i was unaware of though I knoew something of the French campaign against Moscow.
Very enjoyable getting more to know about the Baltic and how the Scandinavians dealt with the French, Germans and Russians.
A great read and a must for all Hornblower fans.
Most of the story is set in Latvia, a state of Russia and there are plenty of adventures and action and the story was all-in-all very satisfying, one of the better Hornblowers, I think.One thing I did particularly like about this particular story is that Hornblower spent much less time internalizing everything; it is a bad habit of his.
Totally entertaining and satisfying, another great Hornblower adventure.
In his own right, Hornblower is certainly an engaging and complex character and the series is an interesting study in leadership, and a fascinating portrait of life at sea in the age of sail.
This book catches Hornblower at an interesting time in his life and career--after, seemingly, he's gotten everything he could possibly want.
And I do think the series lost something after Hornblower gained so much in rank and position.
I think the best books run from Hornblower and the Hotspur to Flying Colours when he captained ships of his own.
C.S. Foresterin "Kommodori Hornblower" (Otava, 1948) on neljäs - tai kronologisessa järjestyksessä yhdeksäs - osa historiallisten meriromaanien sarjassa, jotka kertovat brittiläisestä meriupseerista Horatio Hornblowerista Napoleonin sotien melskeessä.Napoleon valmistelee hyökkäystä Venäjälle.
Niinpä kommodoriksi ylennetty Hornblower komennetaan eskaadereineen Itämerelle, jossa hän ehtii muun muassa mitellä voimiaan ranskalaisen sotalaivan kanssa, estämään tsaari Aleksanteri I:n murhayrityksen sekä ottamaan osaa Riian piiritykseen.
Suomalaiseksi mainitulla Braun-tulkilla ja herralla nimeltä Carl von Clausewitz on kirjassa myös oma roolinsa.Foresterin tuotantoon entuudestaan tutustuneelle "Kommodori Hornblower" ei tarjoa sinänsä mitään uutta ja yllätyksellistä, onpahan nyt vaan oikein viihdyttävä vanhan ajan meriromaani, jossa laivat ovat puuta ja miehet rautaa.
It's interesting that he is exceptionally brave, an excellent seaman and commander, and is admired, even loved, by all who serve under his command.
By this book, though, he is finally beginning to loosen up a bit and realizes that his men do love him and it's all right for him to receive that love and return it.
He is happily married now to his love, Lady Barbara, who adores his son as well, and he is very well off materially so he no longer has to scrimp for uniforms and provisions.
There's a book to follow, so we know he survives!

This is the eighth (or ninth) book of the Hornblower saga written by C.S. Forester and my favorite of the series.Hornblower's personal and financial well being are finally settled and he devotes himself fully to the business of war against France. He takes command of a small fleet of ship as a Commodore and has wide latitude to carry out his plans.In this book we see Hornblower at his military peak and unfettered by the commmands of other men.This was originally my favorite of the novels when I read them as a young teen and remains so to this day.
There are two kinds of people in this world, those who haven't read Hornblower, and those who love Hornblower.
A good story in an uncommon setting (The Baltic during the Napoleonic Wars), but for a series that made its bones with naval adventure there is far to little of that here.
The renegade Prussian general Carl von Clausewitz puts in an appearance working for the imperial Russian army, as does the Tsar, briefly, along with a number of well-drawn junior officers and military enlistees.
Forester manages to spring a number of surprises for us along the way to keep things interesting and ends the whole thing on quite a cliffhanger.The audio book narration by Christian Rodska adds something to the tale though a couple of the accents were a little tough to make out the first time.
It feels as if he is removed from the action, then describing the details to the readers after the fact.
Instead, we have a lot of diplomacy, which, truth be told, is interesting only when doled out with a healthy dose of action in between.
Most of the time, Hornblower is negotiating with the Prussians or the Russians, or having dinner parties with the Czar.
I do miss a time when Hornblower had to answer to an unjust authority, or when he didn't have that much power.
Book number 9 in the saga!
I've given Hornblower adventures in the English channel, the Mediterranean, the Pacific.
Let's send him to the Baltic!" So Captain Hornblower is made Commodore of a small fleet and spends 1812 attempting to thwart Napoleon's war effort in northern Europe.
But the story wasn't just a case of "same adventures, different backdrop".
In this novel, Hornblower takes on the role of diplomat, hoping to keep Sweden and Russia from falling to France's armies.
There's military action as well, though Hornblower has to face the challenge of fighting opponents on land.
All in all it's another entertaining book in the series.
I've read this series several times starting when I was a young teen and they're always a pleasure.
One of the great achievements in popular and historical fiction.
Historical details aside, as well as the nautical details, they are about the character of Hornblower, the conflict and struggle between the inner and outer man.
Not just his fears and hopes, but the necessity of the mask of command as he does his duty.
Old fashioned and all the better for that frankly.
In this one he's enmeshed in the politics of Russia v Napoleon while commanding a squadron in the Baltic.
Another thrilling set of adventures. I'm really happy I am reading these in the order of publication; so far they are turning out really well--picking up where the last adventures took a rest--These books have a great deal of historical significance, and my geography and appreciation of Napoleanic war times has been much advanced. I especially appreciate how the character is presented--with his own misgivings and self criticism so heightened--even in the face of his many victories. what a joy to read.
I originally read this entire series when I was 13 and I've decided to re-read them in their entirety. I'm actually reading the exact book that I read 43 years ago! I must of keep them that long for a good reason and that reason is that they are very good adventure books even though, in retrospect, quite racist against the French and Spanish. The racism I'm sure is reflective of the era that the books portray.Very satisfying, especially if you like to read about Napoleonic warfare.
As the commodore, there is less and more for Hornblower to do. The book has a slightly different feel because Hornblower isn't in on every battle and instead must watch from the sides. He also isn't directly commanding the ship (although he is reunited with Bush as captain) and so the story revolves more around diplomacy. I want to now go and see if Riga was so pivotal in the defeat of Napolean in Russia and if so, if any of these stories are similar to the real events.
I usually like Horatio Hornblower’s adventures, but this particular tale entailed too much fighting, war and death. There was not too much sea adventure. Most of the book took place on land. Even when there was sea adventures, Horatio was a Commodore who gave orders to younger officers and didn’t indulge himself, so that was a bit different and somewhat difficult to accept. All in all, this is a light easy read.
From the countryside to the Baltic; from enjoying his landed gentry position to influencing world event - Hornblowers exploits never cease to amaze. He’s hand on leading the fight in a way he’s never done before but the same old grit and determination prevail into this new environment. As ever he succeeds.
Newly Commodored, the legendary H.H. must deal with the temptations and inconveniences of having become a hero to his men, as well as others. All while striving to beat back Napoleon's massive and seemingly unstoppable forces. A solid entry in the inimitable Hornblower series.
I enjoyed reading about this old-fashioned hero I've heard of all my life. It's almost like reading a foreign language with all the nautical terms, but the novel offers an intriguing trip up the Baltic Sea in 1812 to wage guerrilla warfare on the French.
Getting a little tired of Hornblower's constant inferiority complex. Like the very accurate history of the Napoleonic War and the British Navy's part in it.
