https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/189783.The_Elfstones_of_Shannara
This was so much better than book one, but I still didn't love it. I do think it'll be translated well into a television show and I'm looking forward to seeing how it's adapted. Unfortunately I do think this will be the last Terry Brooks book I read. It wasn't a terrible read and I actually enjoyed the story! I just don't think his writing style is for me.
I don't think you can possibly understand what a formative impact this book had on me.Picture it: I was nine years old.
I loved every single page of it.And that's how I became a fantasy addict.I know this book isn't perfect.
Every time I reread it--every few years--I find that while I am rereading the story, I am also reliving that magical experience as a nine-year-old of discovering magic and adventure and wonder.
I now own a paperback edition for easy carrying around, but I still have that beautiful old hardcover, with its maps and line-drawings and solid presence in my lap.For me, this book will always be perfect.
Thank the lord that's over....Just watch the show. Seriously.
This one is little deeper and had some really nice magical moments.
I was very entranced with the story and was excited to pick it up again each night.
If you like the fantasy genre, this is another nice add to your collection.
There are some interesting characters in this book.
Some heartache, loss and sadness.
A good amount of magic, intrigue, mystery make this a fun read.
Plus, there are dwarves.
What story isn't instantly made better with dwarves?
It did end a bit abruptly, but I still enjoyed it.
I'm looking forward to the next book in the Sword of Shannara trilogy.
Literally sobbing... That ending killed me.Love this series, my review to come on YT.
I notice that everyone's favorite lists are riddled with the literary classics like Great Expectations or modern smartness like Middlesex. I bet far more people prefer to sit down with some Dean Koonz or a bodice ripper. So I'm going to stand up and say: I like fantasy. I read it. And I think it's good!
[1 Star] Starting off 2016 with a bang.
This book is definitely not for me.
The story, promising.
But soon I started to like the book less and less as I read it.
The same story is told over and over and over.
The same story is told over and over and over.
This character has something mysterious that he will reveal in two chapters.
The characters are very flat to me.
Overall, not a very enjoyable book, and I started skimming toward the end to just be done.
I don't recommend this book.
I'm rounding up to 3 just because this was so much better than the first book (although I still wasn't very interested overall).
I liked this one waaay more than the first book, but still think it should've been about half the length.
The writing style just wasn't for me, I guess.
(And Tolkien is one of my favorite authors, so I don't think this is the same kind of "slow & descriptive" style as LOTR.
And I think this would still be a fun read if you loved the show!
Yeah I read this because of the TV show that's about to come on... Sue me! so happy I did too! Can't wait to see it all play out on the big screen!4.5 Please don't be a flop... please don't be a flop... because this could be amazing.         READ THIS REVIEW AND OTHERS OVER ON OUR BLOG: SBSR SBSR SBSR   SBSR SBSR SBSR  SBSR SBSR SBSR
Every bit as fascinating, fantastical and phenomenal as the first book!I was initially disappointed that this did not feature the same characters from the first installment in the trilogy, and that we would not get to see how their lives had continued to develop after the close of the book.
So much time had passed between the two, in fact, that this felt more like a companion novel than a continuation of the series.I soon forgot the prior adventure had even existed, however, as I was sucked into this new surreal and incredible journey.
This current set of characters became just as beloved, the world just as awe-inspiring and the adventures just as hair-raising and incredulous.Brooks has well-and-truly proven himself a new favourite of mine!
I REALLY disliked this book. Not to give anything away, but the main female character TURNS INTO A TREE at the end and the main male character (who apparently is in love with her) can only go and look at her and sigh. DUMB DUMB DUMB. I think there should be a rule against main characters turning into trees.
I was a bit disappointed at the beginning when I realized that I wouldn't be reading about Shea, Flick, and Balinor, but I quickly became used to Wil and Amberle, and frankly, I found them to be much more believable and relatable characters.
Ander carried that burden well, and I think he will be as beloved as his father before him.However, I do have a couple of complaints about Brooks' writing style: he's a bit repetitive and a bit too descriptive at times.
The love story between Wil and Amberle enjoyable, and it was just heart-wrenching to see it end the way it did.
As with the Sword of Shannara, I must preface this review by stating that I do not know why there is so much loathing of this series.
One of the coolest things to me about this series is that you always get a new set of main characters.
While I do enjoy tales that follow the same main character or characters, I find this to be a refreshing departure from normal fare.
If you haven't given the Shannara Series a chance because of all of the negative vibe concerning its similarities to The Lord of the Rings, you really owe it to yourself to give it a shot.
Alright.
I held out as long as I could, but I'm just so bored and I've got about 90 unread books on my shelf I'd rather be reading than trudging through this.
This has a very Tolkien writing style (in that it's much longer and explainy than it really needs to be) but is lacking the intrigue for me.
I think this book could definitely lose about 100-200 pages and I'd not find myself missing them.
If the show is good perhaps I'll listen to the rest of this on audio book.
Buena ambientación, buenos personajes y con ritmo.Quizá la única pega sea ese exceso de narración que tiene a veces.Lo que sí recomiendo es leer el libro sin a ver visto la serie antes. Yo ya había visto la serie, y eso ha hecho que pierda su gracia en algunos momentos.¡Wiiilllllll!
Brooks was finding his own voice with this one, probably because there wasn't much left to crib from Tolkien after he wrote The Sword of Shannara (although we still get a Shadowfax-type horse, giant flying birds, and tree people).
When something does happen, however, Brooks really knows how to write a gripping scene.
For as many complaints that I have with Terry Brooks, I can't deny that his books make me feel like a kid discovering epic fantasy for the first time.
This is true old school fantasy, which is rarely done well anymore.
September 2015 Update: For those of you who love Terry Brook's books here's an update.
I'll be writing blogs about the journey to the premiere and covering episodes here >> http://www.kandiedelley.com/category/...Please follow and support Terry!
I have waited nearly 20+ years to see "Elfstones" made into a movie.
My Original Review below: This is by far the BEST FANTASY READ by Brooks [in my opinion].
Mr. Brooks's description and narrative are INSANE and he is the author that made me want to write fantasy.
Can't wait for his books to be come movies.
And I also wanted to take my time and enjoy the story.
Believe it or not, of the three Terrys (Pratchett, Brooks, & Goodkind) I hadn't read anything by Brooks before.
As a cohesive story that is mostly original and stands on its own, Elfstones fares very well.
It's really different from the MTV show based on it, but I like them both in different ways.
I feel like the Dagda Mor got defeated far too easily, but the truly creepy Mallenroh & Morag made up for it somewhat.
I didn't expect the twist with the Ellcrys and I'm going to read Wishsong to find out what happens next.
Nell'ombra del Divieto Buona prova quella di Terry Brooks, finalmente capace di restituire al lettore antagonisti accattivanti contrapposti al classico manipolo di eroi con l'inedita missione di salvare il mondo.L'intreccio narrativo e l'introspezione rimangono piuttosto basilari e non offrono particolari guizzi; molto meglio la parte action e l'assedio finale, quest'ultimo godibile e ottimamente descritto.Ripescaggio dai ricordi nebulosi d'infanzia: l'occhio truce del Camaleonte sotto le spoglie del cane e l'inarrestabile Mietitore sul ponte sopra l'abisso.
But conveniently, the demons have slaughtered the chosen ones--save for the young elven princess, Amberle, with whose care Allanon charges Wil Ohmsford, the current bearer of the elfstones.
I didn't expect, when watching the show, that Ander would play such a prominent role in terms of screen time, but I am glad this focus on his character remained true to its source as Ander struggles with his potential as heir to the throne, and leader of the elven army against the demons threatening to destroy everything.
Only Allanon knows the full extent of the problem, but even the last surviving druid cannot be at two places at the same time, so he must ask unlikely heroes for help - including Wil Ohmsford, the grandson of Shea Ohmsford from the first book.
Something else I noticed: he is not shy of killing off characters - not to the extent of what George R.R. Martin does, but in his case the killings start literally in the first pages of the book.
The characters in this book is interesting, or in case of the ones from the previous one (Allanon) are more interesting and flashed out.
From reading Brooks's "The Word and the Void" series, I did know these take place in a post-apocalyptic Earth.
I was pleasantly surprised at how I was able to enjoy it as a stand-alone, though, even with all the references to what must have taken place in the immediately prior book, "The Sword of Shannera." It was just what I needed to rekindle my love of epic fantasy.
What I forgot is that Brooks is, under it all, a darn good writer, who knows how to weave humanity into his characters and physicality into every setting.
Cover: es handelt sich hierbei um das Filmcover welches Emberle zeigt: es ist nicht das hübscheste aber nunja - Geschmackssache ;) Geschichte: wirklich eine tolle High Fantasy Geschichte die mich wirklich in ihren Bann gezogen hat, auch wenn sie an manchen Stellen ihre Längen hatte und dadurch stellenweise etwas langweilig war.
Doch trotzdem konnte mich die Geschichte überzeugen und obwohl ich die Sereie geschaut habe wollte ich einfach wissen wie es mit der Geschichte weitergeht und auch wo die Unterschiede zur Serie liegen!
Er ist einfach cool, und auch der Charakter der mir auf dauer am sympathischsten war da er immer Herr der lage war und einfach nicht so viel gejammert hat wie andere.
4,5/5*Tahle série si mě celkem získala. Nápad přesunout fantastické bytosti jako elfy, trpaslíky nebo trolly do budoucnosti našeho reálného světa mě hrozně baví. Tenhle díl byl o poznání lepší než jednička, byl takový ucelenější a více zacházel do hloubky. Autor krásně zpracovává téma toho, že bysme se měli o naši přírodu starat a být vděční za to, co nám dává. Skvělé, jsem zvědavý na seriálovou podobu :)
Este libro me ha gustado mucho más que el primero, con más aventuras y fantasía, y sobre todo algo que me faltó en el anterior, una historia de amor que le da más fuerza a la trama. Una historia de amor en la que tendrán que hacer frente al destino y luchar contra muchos peligros y enemigos que harán lo que sea por destruirlos.Reseña completa -> http://thewordsofbooks.blogspot.com.e...
Dieses Buch/Hörbuch hatte alles was ich von einem HighFantasy Roman erwartet habe: episches Setting, tolle und tiefgründige Charaktere, blutige Schlachten :) ich bin einfach so verliebt in diese Story :)und ich hab mich entschieden die Serie nicht weiterzuschauen, denn diese kann nicht im geringsten an dieses BuchEpos rankommen :)
2.5 stars.Very old-fashioned, trope-y kind of fantasy. I enjoyed about the last 30 percent, the rest was super slow. I found the characters to be flat and stereotypical, and many difficulties were just solved too conveniently. Still, I did not entirely dislike it. There is something comforting in this sort of fantasy tale that you feel you just know, and I will always enjoy a good quest story. And some of the battle scenes played out like an action movie in my head (and I usually just get confused when reading about battles) so thumbs up for that.
So I just got The Sword of Shannara because of how amazing the MTV series trailer looked, but now I'm noticing that the show will start at the second installment: The Elfstones of Shannara. I was super excited to read the first book, but I've recently read a lot of critiques about how closely related it is to Lord of the Rings, and that makes me a little wary. However, I've never actually read the LotR series, either. I've only seen a few movies. Perhaps I will abandon the first book and go straight for the Elfstones? I'm truly lost.
A classic and you can see why. It hasn't really stood the test of time, but when you read it with the mindset of someone who hasn't read fantasy before, you can see why it is so popular. It is full of charm and envelopes you into the comfort of the standard fantasy tropes we have come to know and love in the thirty or so years since this was written. A must read for any self respecting fantasy fan.

When considering the origins of fantasy I generally look back centuries before Lord of the Rings was written: basically to the Ancient Greeks.
The best example of the myth would be the Odyssey and with this story the original hearers would actually look up at Odysseus as a character after which they could model their lives.
Tolkien, however, is not necessarily the father of modern fantasy either, because prior to him (and Lewis) we have stories such as Barsoom and Conan which, while not morality tales or allegory, they were fantasy, but more in the sense that they were adventure stories that would appear in boys magazines.
