https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8951.The_Lake_of_Souls
آیا دارن برای کمک به هارکات می رود ؟ آیا هارکات ماهیت خود را پیدا می کند ؟ آیا به تنهایی از پس معماها برمی آیند ؟ وآیا می فهمند که برهوتی که در پیش دارند کجاست؟شاید جوابها آن چیزی نباشند که می خواهند و شاید ترسناکتر از حد تحمل آنها باشد.
روی شاخه های درختی نزدیک من، چیزی مبهم حرکت کرد، به سرعت چرخیدم و در یک نگاه پیکر کشیده و تنومندی به رنگ سیاه یکدست را دیدم که با چنگال های بیرون کشیده و آرواره های باز، بالای سرمان پرواز کرد - بعد، پلنگ بالای سر من بود و پیروزمندانه میغرید. آن روز، قرعه به نام مرگ کشیده شده بود. ا. شربیانی
In this book Harkat, a Little Person created by a dead soul by Mr. Tiny, is trying to figuire out who he really is.
Mr. Tiny visits the Cirque Du Freak taking Harkat with him to find his real soul.
Darren jumps in with Harkat when he was not supposed to but Mr. Tiny allows it anyways.
Mr. Tiny sent Harkat and Darren to a harsh desert.
I can connect this to Copper Sun. Harkat is trying really hard to achieve something he wants, and in this case it's his soul.
This book is soooo good. I can't put it down. EVER!! I read all nine books in a mounth or so.Right now i'm on the tenth book, and almost finish with this one.I'm looking forward for to the elevnth and twelve'th book.
...but does provide an interesting story (okay, okay, so it does provide one essential thing to the plot...but I feel like that really could've been summed up on a sentence or two rather than devoting an entire book to it...)In this harrowing journey, Darren and Harkat embark to save Harkat's mind from nightmares (which are slowly driving him crazy).
I get that every three books is it's own trilogy but then they should've be collectively called Cirque du Freak if you're not going to deliver on the title!Blog | Instagram | Twitter
Darren and Harkat are on one of their biggest missions yet.
For Harkat to discover who he used to be they have to go on a deadly quest.
They go to a place where you might as well be asking for danger.
Will Darren and Harkat survive this terrifying journey?
This book wasn't like the others.
almost as if Darren Shan the author has grown.
Because it is such good writing it was almost like you were actually in that other place.
If your a vampire lover and love reading about other places like me, I recommend you read this book.
This book answers numerous questions whilst also throwing many more out there to be answered in the final two books.The main purpose of this book is to help us get answers as to who Harkat really is. Taking place in an unknown location (until later in the book) the characters work through tasks to find out more about Harkat. Whilst it is the longest book in the series it does address many things, giving the reader numerous answers to questions that have been asked in the past.
What a great plot twist! Also a great cliffhanger! This, by far, is the most unique of the Cirque Du Freak. At first, I was confused, I thought Darren and Harkat are on an alien planet! Also, Kurda is Harkat! Can't believe it! Dam Darren, you clever! *INSERT MIND=BLOWN GIF HERE*
Me recordó mucho al libro de "Viaje al centro de la tierra". Cuando crees que Darren Shan ya no te puede sorprender, TE EQUIVOCAS. Le di 4 en lugar de 3 estrellas por la gran revelación al final del libro, la verdad no me lo esperaba, un poco extraña, pero me gustó.
Sadly, I cannot continue with this series. It has just gone on for too long and has lost my interest.
worst in the series
Spits is a former pirate and heavy drinker, and although Darren and Harkat do not trust him very much, they decide that Mr. Tiny put him in that world for a reason, and decide to take him with them.They soon reach a small area filled with 'people' which they decide to call Kulashkas (since they are chanting "kulashka" more than any other word.) They are required to steal vials of 'holy liquid'.
Darren and Harkat enter the village, Spits being afraid, to find the 'holy liquid' to be the venom from the fangs of a huge creature called the Grotesque.
Tenhle díl mě zatím bavil asi nejmíň ze všech. Teda až na konec, ale to se dalo předpokládat...
That shows that Darren has grown to judge people in the present, because it doesn't matter what you did in your past  Further into the book, Darren shows to be growing up in a extraordinary way when he followed Harkat through the portal to find out who he was in his past life before becoming a little person to work at the Cirque.
In the beginning of the book, Darren and Harkat are back at the Cirque and Darren is still trying to get over the death of beloved friend and mentor to the Vampire ways and lifestyle.
book 10:I can't believe the books actually got better..Let me start of with the reason I'm reading this saga, while absolutely hating it.
the books were fast paced, as if the writer wanted to get to the "good bits" as soon as possible, and were too detailed on unneccesarry parts, while skipping through what must have been 20 years of Darren Shan's whole life (Mr. Shan, you cant make me believe there is a mountain filled with vampires and the most excited thing that has happened in 8 years was a battle between around 80 creatures and Darren's fight with a bear??) But now, 4 days and 10 books later, the series actually got interesting.
While other installments had some filler and/or unnecessary plot points, The Lake of Souls felt almost entirely unnecessary to the overall plot of Cirque du Freak.
It was kind of interesting to find out who Harkat Mulds was in his former life, but an entire book of the series dedicated to an adventure trek to find out who Harkat Mulds was?
There were plenty of weird characters and plot twists, and it was interesting to see how Darren and Harkat navigated this world.
But the whole time I was reading I became more and more irritated by how little this had to do with the vampire/vampaneze war, which is the main thread through all the Cirque books.
About the Book:Shan takes a step back from the War of Scars and focuses on a character that we all have come to know and love: Harkat Mulds.
Harkat's nightmares have returned, and Mr. Tiny shows up to transport Darren and the Little Person to another world so that the latter can figure out who he was in his past life.Review:Well, this book has definitely taken a different path from the rest of the series, and I must admit I very much enjoyed it.
Darren and Harkat must come across a series of trials so that they may reach the lake of souls.
In the 11th book of the best selling Cirque du freak series by Darren Shan,'Lake of souls harket goes and find out about his past.
Just like when Darren and harket got lost in the fog and a jaguar came and attacked them while they were travelingi rated this book a 5 stars because it was verry detailed and it really draws your attention and you cant notput the book down.
After the devastating events at the end of book 9 I wasn't sure what to expect from this one.
I knew a huge gap would be left by the fallen and I wasn't sure how it would move forward without him.
This book mainly focuses on Darren and Harkat, it is time for Harkat to discover the truth about his past and journey through barren lands, dark tunnels, big lakes and dragon infested mountains.
I saw a book at the bookstore yesterday and, heh, his name caught my eye.Well, let's get started with the review.Things I liked about this book:Darren.Harkat/youhavetoreadthebooktofindout.Mr. Tiny.Evanna.Things that were weird, but gave this book character:The guy.
So amazing.I didn't like that there wasn't any Steve, and that they stayed in /that/ place 7/8ths of the book.
It was compelling, but it was a very long period of time.There wasn't a lot of Evanna, who is my second favorite character, next to Harkat.So, if you're pondering to finish the Cirque du Freak series, or starting it, or just wanting to read the next book;Read it.
Darren Shan wanted to help Harkat Mulds find who he really was.
So, Darren and Harkat meets up with Evanna who stays with them for a short period of time.
When Evanna left, and Darren and Harkat were exploring, a dragon appears and picks up both Harkat and Darren, almost putting them out of their misery.
Luckily the dragon drops them both from many yards up.
Later on this man called Spits, an ex pirate, found them both and treated them well.
Then, Spits goes on the journey with the 2 guys, surviving over many dangerous creatures.

This was a bit of a ride. Kinda guessed that Harkat would be someone like who he was (in the way that he was made and the time thing) but never thought it'd be that guy.
harkat trys to figure out what his past was like.
But it was kind of hard for them because they had to fight dragons and monsters and giant spiders.
it was a very hard challenge for them but they didnt die and they figured out who harkat was in the past.
i thought they was both going to die when theyu was fightin gthe allegators in the lake.
And i thought they was going to die when they was fighting the dragon by the lake od souls because the former pirate died.
but they tryed running away and that didnt work.
Este libro por fin responde a muchas preguntas mientras que también lanzando muchas para poder (espero) ser contestas en los dos últimos libros.El propósito principal de este libro es ayudarnos resolver respuestas sobre quién es realmente Harkat.
El libro toma lugar en un mundo/lugar/plano desconocido donde Darren y Harkat pasan por algunas tareas para poder llegar al el Lago de las Almas.
Una lástima que terminara como termino U_ULos libros anteriores tenían algunas escenas bastante asquerosas pero este tiene muchísimas (no leer mientras comes algo jaja )El final no me lo esperaba..
creo que fue bastante sorprendente lo que se revela al final.
Darren Shan and Harkat Mulds, the mysterious little person, are sent on a quest to discover who Harkat was in his previous life, but the quest they are sent on was not what they expected.  “Lake of Souls” was an interesting book that made itself different from the other ones, taking place in a land previously unknown to Darren and Harkat, or any of the main characters. In this new land, the author has nothing holding him back from letting his imagination go wild, and the book is filled with all
Darren Shan and Harkat Mulds, the mysterious little person, are sent on a quest to discover who Harkat was in his previous life, but the quest they are sent on was not what they expected.
“Lake of Souls” was an interesting book that made itself different from the other ones, taking place in a land previously unknown to Darren and Harkat, or any of the main characters.
There is also an aspect of mystery, since after all, they trying to discover Harkat’s previous identity.
What I liked was this new world (and we find out at the end what it really is) and the (view spoiler)[time travel element that's been introduced (hide spoiler)].
I know the author intended this series to be much longer with this other world playing a bigger part but decided against it (I don't know details because I'm waiting until I finish the last 2 books before reading up on it properly).
He also said he might still return to it in a new series and I hope he does because although I didn't like this book very much I'd still love to read more books set in this universe.
Darren Shan!
Harkat and Darren are sent out to find who Harkat used to be.
Harkat is a little person made by Mr. Tiny.
I was just thinking "How could that have happened if Harkat was born before Kurda died?" Then Mr. Tiny told Darren he went into the future took Kurda's body and replaced it with someone else's at the funeral.
He had made up Harkat Mulds and brought him back to the present time to be Darren's protector.
When I found out that the place they went to would be the future I was like "That's a good ending!" 5 STARS *****
I think this book is my favourite yet of the whole serie.
After finally finding out who Harkat really was in his previous life I think I like him more.
I don't mind the relationship with Debbie and Darren but I'd rather have it didn't happen, luckily we didn't see much of them this book.
This is the longest book of the saga and I really really enjoyed it!
It was more like a side-adventure to their quest but I think that made me enjoy reading it even more.
I picked this book mainly because it took you away from the main conflict in the story and sent the main characters into a chaotic world which where humans became ants, and dragons became humans.
To my surprise, that world was the future.
I absolutely loved how the riddles to get to the Lake of Souls came together, such as the teeth with letters scratched on to them, the liquid bubbles that made bombs, and how Harkat found out that he was Also, I actually learned something from this book that most books that I've read in the past never touched on.
