https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/304961.Dynamic_Figure_Drawing
There is a lot to get out of this book however it is a perseverance test to get at it and you will be best advised to work at it yourself and spare yourself the trouble of trying to get through his TERRIBLE prose.
He really suffers for not having an editor who could stand up to him I guess- the prose is quasi-accademic as though a 4th former had grabbed a dictionary and a thesaurus and for every straightforward one syllable word had substituted a four syllable obscure one.

Hogarth's figures look a little too much like spaghetti people for my taste. I recommend Loomis if you are looking for a good book on figure drawing.
All his illustrations are also the best I know for studying and learning, very clear and a great reference.
One of the best books on human anatomy!The only thing that got me confused was that I believe he does all this thinking and measurements in orographic projection, which lead to me doing a lot of head scratching over many pages as he declared some solutions found (especially with the long diagonal of an ellipse) where it seemed to me still problematic...
Anyway, gone through this book like the 2nd or third time now and I still have so much to learn from it.
I dig this book. It's Not an intro book but a definite must-read for those looking to better understand and strengthen their art skills. If you give it a chance, this will help you to better understand some of the fundamentals of drawing a body in perspective (i.e. - One of the hardest things for some artists to wrap their heads around). I still turn to this guide when I need a refresher in drawing arms or legs in space.
An amazing reference for pencil drawing on the topic of dynamic figures. Very detailed on anatomy, finding different approaches and perspectives on drawing human body (parts or whole, doesn't matter). However, it is definitely an advance techniques drawing guide. I have struggled on some of the author's approaches. I am however not a professional artist, nor an art student. Just a plain engineer without any background in art :-)
Great dynamic art by Hogarth. A must read for comic book artists - and in particular, fans of Gil Kane.
Why do I get the impression that learning more about art will only enable me to understand that Burne Hogarth is still better than me?
Awesome book! Gotta love Hogarth :) He's concise and his instruction is wonderful. Highly recommend!
Fantastic book! Wish I had found it 20 years ago.
Reading and sketching from this book has been a wonderful experience for me.
It's one of those experiences where you feel like a moron at the same time as you're learning things, because it all seems so common-sensical, but then you never actually thought of it that way, did you?The one complaint I have is that some of the descriptions of how to draw and why you are drawing things in a certain way are full of quite complex language, probably too complex for a younger audience.
Then again, the drawings say most of it beautifully.
“Dynamic Figure Drawing by Brune Hogarth is an excellent book for an artist who knows what they are talking about. Not for beginners this book explains in an older geometric style of mapping out the human body. It features a large amount of drawings so you aren’t short on examples or poses plus they all include great descriptions. Hogarth uses his language to describe his process to someone who can understand him and think like him. Simply browsing through this book would advance a draftsman's understanding of the puzzle that is the figure.”
This is my goto book for anatomy. There are better books for learning to draw the human figure, but this is the best for learning to draw the muscles and form of anatomy. It's a must for comic book artists as well, IMHO.This in combination with How To Draw Comics The Marvel Way does the trick.I am also a lover of Burne Hogarth's style, its creapy as hell.
I think this book might be really interesting and would help me increase my drawing skills better. based on the rating on the book i think its in the middle 5/10. I would like to read it and see whats it mostly drawn about and whats its about the most. Also it looks cool based on the over but can't judge a book form its cover. according to everything in this page im really interested in reading this book. Where can I find it?
While it's currently to advanced for me, when my anatomy improves I will probably buy a reference copy. While there are manga equivalents of this book, this is a non-cartoon approach so the characters shown are much more realistic.
Nice, essential book for any kind of storybook illustration. I went to art school, and none of this is covered. Burne's method might not be the only method, and plenty of people point out it's limitations, but it helps you understand the flow and foreshortening of muscles in motion.
This book had several good tips that gave me the confidence to draw more varied and active figures. It's not the easiest to read at times but you can generally get the gist of what he's saying from his illustrations. Recommended if you feel like your drawings have gotten stagnant.
I've checked this out twice from the library and finally bought it for my shelf. Great action shots!
Pretty good!
I'm a big fan of this book. It's one of the essentials for brushing up on the basics of figure drawing.
This is my favorite anatomy book. I got so much out of it.
Great for reference.
Interisting book & I really want to read it
The pictures are amazing, the writing a awefull.
Helped me in immensely in my art career. Burne taught me the how in relation to the why in relation the human figure in action and space
Stole this book from my High School Library. I loved it so much. Taught me a lot about human figure drawing. Shading and natural human anatomy. Had it since 1984
most of highschool was spent sitting up late drawing from this book.
Meh.
Very helpful... The drawings couldn't be any better, the concepts are clear but the writing is fairly weak. Still a great reference book.
Great figure drawing book.
