https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11289180-the-horror-at-martin-s-beach

A rather unusual story when compared to Lovecraft's other work. It is more similar in theme to something by Junji Ito.
Be careful of what you take from the deep ocean.
I thought it was genuinely horrific; much more clear than a normal Lovecraft story; but then this was more of a collaboration with his wife.
Fucking fish!
The moon went partly under a cloud, and in the half-light the line of swaying men resembled some sinister and gigantic centipede, writhing in the clutch of a terrible creeping death.In the early 1920's, a 50-foot monstrous fish is captured at sea, showing clear signs of mutation - digit-like arms, six-toed feet for dorsal fins, a single eyeball in its head.
And it's an infant.
Displayed as an oddity at the seaside resort of Martin's Beach, the creature and its ship museum is swept back to sea during a sudden, freak storm.
The next day, the true horror begins.
A terrific beach read!
And that my friends is precisely why I stay as far away from the ocean as possible. There’s some pretty whacky stuff down there that shouldn’t be messed with. A couple of sailors drop a line in the ocean to save someone, but something far heavier and sinister pulls back, causing a whirlpool of death and terrible screams.
It's a good short story. I did'nt know it was a collaboration but now I noticed there are some small changes in Lovecraft's style. More direct, so to speak, but whit all the terror of the inevitable clasic of Lovecraft, of a group of people who know they are marching to a certain death and can do nothing about it, and the horrible master mind behind it who gets the last laugh.
I was very pleased and terrified by this unique story.
This was good and mildly frigthening.
7/10
Yet another marvellous tale from Lovecraft. Descriptive and compelling. The unknown is resonating, and humanity is but a troupe of puppets controlled by a mysterious and exacting tentacle.
This novelette is well-known because it is one of the best collaboration of H.P. Lovecraft and his soon-to-be wife Sonia Greene. It was written during their courtship. It is not a bad story, even if some of the tropes it employs are a little stale for a modern reader.A huge monstrous sea creature is captured in the sea, and placed on display inside a boat at Martin's beach. Few days later the boat vanishes mysteriously... and that's just the beginning of the troubles that will hit the Ocean town.
Short but sweet, The Horror at Martin's Beach once again shows Lovecraft at his best, revealing but a glimpse of what lies beneath the surface. Quite literally in this case, seeing as he mentions sinister amphibians resembling rather mutants than anything else. Open-ended and free for interpretation, redolent in colorful adjectives (archetypical of Lovecraft) and mysterious, it's one of H.P.'s best.
A delightfully eerie short story that I would suggest reading while either on your way to the beach, or while soaking up some sun on the sand. One of the greatest allures of the sea is it's ability to keep it's mysteries hidden...and this story thrives on that ability and all the horrific and wondrous possibilities that it entails.
This very short story was published in the November 1923 issue of Weird Tales with the title "The Invisible Monster" and only Sonia Greene shown as the author. Greene wrote that Lovecraft "revised and edited" The Horror at Martin's Beach which seems to be her original title which the magazine changed on publication.
A short story that has a decent amount of creepiness to it. I particularly liked the build-up towards the end. I do think that there's an unreconciled gap between the initial creature and what happened in the end though.
this story doesn't prey on your fears of mysterious underwater creatures dragging you away while you swim. in fact, it's a bizarre half-hearted revenge of an angry parent monster. but since I'm really into lovecraft's creatures, I wasn't too disappointed in the end.
I love Lovecraft! The story was OK. In honor of him I can't give any of his books/stories lower then 4 stars! Its a basic horrors of the deep story but well written of course!
It just doesn't work.
