https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28294.A_Void
God, this is hard.
I'm just aiming for two to four paragraphs, and I'm stuck.
I can hardly do a thing.
And this guy has a solid book, with a plot and all.
Smart, no doubt about it.
what's this book's point?
Naturally, you want to know that, and so do I.
I think that I can say it in this way.
You might lack an important thing, and not know it's missing.
Your world looks okay, almost normal.
But no, in fact it's not normal or okay at all, if you think a bit.
No doubt this was a blast to craft, but, I hazard, not as much fun to look through, sort of similar to studying a crossword you didn't do....
Why not?FYI, I'm now involuntarily thinking within the limits put down by this book, and I must say, doing so is good for a laugh, and I don't find it actually as hard as many might think.
Anyway, I'll inform you all if this book is worth trying as soon as I find out, but writing in this form, I can say right now, is a good form of procrastination from my vacation packing....
OH MY GOD. No. Just no.I am taking my own advice: life is too short.yes; Perec and Adair are both very clever. And I actually enjoyed the introduction. I would have been happy to have left it there: a short, witty, intellectual exercise. But it's Johnson's dog! I have abandoned the book, like a broken umbrella. It's in the magazine holder at Columbus Coffee next to Auckland Hospital. Have at it, fellow Aucklanders.
Yes.The back-cover blurb calls this "a metaphysical whodunnit"; Wikipedia posits that its total absence of the fifth letter acts as "a metaphor for the Jewish experience during the Second World War"; the author states in his postscript that this novel and its constraint were borne of a haphazard bet; I say that it is proof of how my life had no real meaning before my introduction to Georges Perec.
Zeka ve dıygunun birleştiği okuduğum en iyi edebiyat oyunlarından biri.
At this zoo, four pals(3) of Anton cross paths: Olga Mavrokordatos, Ottavio Ottaviani, Hassan Ibn Abbou, and said Amaury.
It is a story too of Olga, Hassan, Ottaviani, and Douglas: until now only pals but actually Anton’s long lost siblings.
The more egregious examples include having a character suddenly say in English, “It was a girl, not a boy,” and not, “C’était une fille et pas un garçon.”(6) He uses common acronyms of terms that contain the letter “e” e.g..
Geddit!!) However, the story is pretty daft and I really felt cheated by the less savoury tricks he uses.
Even if you try it with English?The digression here is either that I like to hear myself type or I’m embarrassed to offer you yet again the same thing you’ve heard over and over again.
In other words, this POMO experimental playing language games which Perec does in A Void may have the same kind of heavy duty absence significance as does Federman’s unceasing digressions.
Holy shit!(That's really all I wanted this review to be, but I've got to add two "complaints." 1) I WISH I had just happened upon this book without knowing what the "gimmick" (said with NO negative connotation!) was.
The mystery of the book was as much, if not more, to do with said gimmick as with the ridiculous (again, NO negative connotation!) plot.
If I could go back in time, one of my primary priorities would be to tell myself to read the book without knowing anything about it a priori.
What happens when I'm able to steal a few hours at my desk without any papers to grade?
In homage to his father's passing, Perec took on the nearly impossible task of writing a book without the letter 'e' which in French is quite a challenge.
I guess for me the issue was similar to the questions I ask myself when I looked at a priceless Chinese jade sculpture of a cabbage with drops of dew and flies at the Taipei Palace Museum in Taiwan that looked so realistic that I thought if I reached out and touched it, it would be wet.
That is a similar question I asked myself about The Disparition, is it art or craft?
An amazing, frustrating, frivolous absurdity of a book.
Consumption of a void is akin to watching a dog play Mozarts most popular hits on a harpsichord.
In A Void`s plot is a soap drama of ironic stupidity in stark contrast to its amazing wordplay.
Anton Vowl has vanished and soon his flock of pals start dying in highly idiotic ways.
Not that you in any way mind, as I was far too busy admiring the singular primacy of words, in fact linguistic bravura in writing a thick book without using our most common linguistic building block and in so doing dismissing plot to labor.
As far as I am awar , it hasn’t b n don y t.P r c imagin s th lik ly r ad r “rapt in a book, a work of fiction, constantly hoping for a solution, for a solution that’s driving him crazy by lurking just out of his grasp, a solution that has had throughout, in fact from its first word, an infuriating habit of staring at him whilst continually avoiding his own scrutiny, might find, advancing into its story, nothing but ambiguous mystification and rationalisation, obscurantism and obfuscation, all of it consigning to a dim and murky chiaroscuro that ambition, so to say, that lit its author’s lamp.”Now, P r c did not writ his nov l in th Fr nch or hav it translat d by Adair in th way I hav pr s nt d this r vi w, with th simpl omission of th l tt r ‘ ‘, ss ntially cr ating a gap, or -- pun incr dibly int nd d -- a void.
Totally satisfying, though not for folks lacking stoicism and assiduity. Probably most highly thought of by souls familiar with and forgiving of structuralist and po-mo thought. I still cannot avoid basking in our author's playful adaptations of traditional familiar works, such as Ozymandias, Song of Solomon, and a short synopsis of Moby Dick. Playful and succinct (sort of), with not a Vowl too many.
So impressive, the lack of coherence or interest is irrelvant. Honestly. Try writing a sentence without an E. Go on. See? Five stars.
Anlamak ve odaklanmak için en çok kafa yorduğum kitaplardan oldu. Sıradışı bir yapısı var romanın ve aslında roman demek de ne kadar doğru bilmiyorum. İlginç, düşündürücü, farklı bir çalışma.
A playful, lipogram, in which a syllabic sonant is vacant, ‘A Void’ is a artistic travail which fits right into ‘Oulipo’s (brainchild of Raymond Q, alias Raymon Q.
On occasion, constant authorial distortion and lampooning can put off bilious bookworms who want to scan the words which the book consists of, but ‘A Void’ is an unusual, regularly fun and farcical and occasionally irritating work of art.
what an amazing book.
this is a 285 page novel that doesn't contain a single letter e.
that must have been one of the most difficult translating jobs ever.and what's even more fantastic is the book actually basically makes sense, has a plot of sorts, and is actually a joy to read.and it's fun,because it is quite amusing in parts.i really can't think of much more to say about this book except that if you like offbeat literature, then this is definitely the book for you.and one more thing; when you see the picture of the author on the back cover of the book,you won't be surprised that he wrote a crazy book like this.
Two stars; it's not that interesting.
That said, the translator deserves twenty for translating a French novel that omits the letter E into an English novel that does the same.
In French, if you drop all Es, you can still write the feminine singular form of the.
Because we don't have an e-less version of "the," though, the verbal calisthenics that go into doing without the French "la" are pretty spectacular.
Garip bir kitaptı, bi kere hiç e harfi kullanmadan yazmış yazar kitabı, çevirmen de hiç e harfi kullanmadan çevirmiş. Burada dilin imkanlarını görmek gerçekten şaşırtıcı oldu benim için.Kurgunun işleyişi de ilginçti, olayların gizemi bir yandan yavaş yavaş çözülürken, bir yandan da olaylar sürekli hız kazanıyor. Georges Perec'in okuduğum 3. kitabı, okudukça tanıyacağıma daha bi gizem kazanıyor benim için kendisi.Bir de anlamadığım bir şekilde çevirmen kitabın bölümleri arasında kendisine de 2-3 sayfalık bölümler ayırmış ve olayın gidişatı ile ile ilgili eklemeler ve hükümlerde bulunmuş. Bana gereksiz ve anlamsız geldi kitabın gidişatına müdahele etmesi.
It informs of a tall story, that of Anton Vowl, a similar champion of virtuoso wordplay who is lost to a churning, sorrowful world without warning, thus provoking a fatal inquiry amongst bosom companions and distant contacts both, all of whom follow suit in shrugging off this mortal coil by turns – but within this account of bodily vanishings lurks a vast conundrum of non-inclusion, a puzzling confrontation orbiting around a pivotal lack so mammoth, so voluminous in its span as to thwart plausibility, whilst still so small as to prohibit our noticing it at all.Still, this sacrificial act, this abdication, this hamstringing is an affliction which it inflicts by will, a pain which it truly wants, and no word said (nor any action) can or should bring a mitigatory balm to this masochistic, if not outright sadistic, mutilation.
A Void (La Disparition)–Georges PerecA Lipogrammatic Synopsis ---- which with artful constraint will focus savor, nay passion and by addition of vigorous acuity and highbrow purport, may transplant mirth as though a frolicking Pan full of ambrosial liquor.As his country is torn apart by social and political anarchy, Anton Vowl, known capricious kook and insomniac, is missing.
Adair's translation, is also mind-bogglingly astounding and full of dark art, it also constricts it’s wording choosing to follow its original authors lipogrammatic constraint and in doing so fashions a book that has no ilk, no comparisons, that lights its own trail with lamps and flash bangs, prior to skipping, dancing, tripping, prancing, 1 instant a figurant or Prima, anon a hippopotamus, an aardvark.
I can't choose multiple dates, so instead I'll say here that I tried reading this book in '95, '97, '01, and again in '03.
Then this guy Gilbert Adair goes and translates a French novel written by Georges Perec in 1969, and I obsess over it.
I start reading, and I can't get over how the original was written in French without using any words that contain the letter 'e'.
But then I obsess over how the translator could've retained the original intent and still used only words that don't contain the letter 'e'.
That's why I've tried reading it so many times.
SYMBOLI'll start by saying an apology to the author-- though I could totally do La Disparition in its original français, I opt for a copy in its anglais avatar, A Void (translation isn't a right word in this scenario).So my shock at a man's ability shall go to A Void's "translator," Gilbert Adair, who not only could bring La Disparition into its "A Void" incarnation, but also do oddball translations of oddball translations of Milton, Rimbaud, and so on, in quotation.
My jaw slowly drops as I scan that part of the book.But...
Why this book?
Fantástico. La ausencia, como la de una letra, puede no ser tan notoria a medida que pasan las páginas, a medida que avanzamos. ¿La novela? cómica.
This review will be written entirely without the letter--wait a second...Oh, hell!
3 points for virtuosity; no points for soul.
Kitaba karşı fazla beklentim vardı sanırım bu yüzden mi bilmiyorum beğenemedim, başta ağır ilerlese de son bölümlerde hikaye güzel bir noktada birleşti ve her şey anlam kazandı, o bölümleri okuması daha kolay ve zevkliydi. Yine de genel olarak sevebildiğim bir kitap olmadı. E harfinin kullanılmaması meşakkatli ve hoş bir seçim olsa da bana çok etkileyici gelmedi, bizim edebiyatımızda olan lebdeğmez sanatı aklıma geldi. Fransızca'da en çok kullanılan sesli harf "e" imiş, onsuz koca bir kitap yazmak zor kabul etsem de kitabı sevemediğim için ve lebdeğmez gibi benzeri bir sanatı da hatırlamış olmam bu durumun bendeki etkisini azalttı.
My shelves speak for themselves. Although I've had words in the past about proofreading, it has never made me start a dedicated shelf. But this is war.SACK THE PROOFREADER. Fancy being handed a ms. that contains no letter 'e' and not noticing. Incroyabl.Furthermore, why wasn't it written by Gorgs Prc. Or by somebody else altogether? Probably Hungarian?
Beyni farklı çalıştırmak, düşünceyi genişletmek için derler ki konfor alanından sıyrıl yeni deneyimlere giriş. Kayboluş, okumadaki bildikleri, alışkanlıkları, sınırları zorlayarak yeni bir deneyim sunuyor. Kitabın formu, kurgusu, konusu üzerine kafa yorarken bir de yazar gibi e kullanmayan çevirmen üzerine de kafa yordurtan bir okuma ve anlama çalışmasının ortasında okuyucunun da kaybolması muhtemel. Labirentte bir okuma da denebilir.
apparentemente "la scomparsa" di perec sembra un gioco: un romanzo scritto completamente senza utilizzare una vocale, la "e".
e il gioco c'è, intendiamoci: quando -e siamo ancora ai primi capitoli- spunta il riassunto di "moby dick" scritto in quel modo (quindi no "balena", "cetaceo" "pesce" e persino "nave", "baleniera" e "arpione": come ha fatto?
Çevirmen ve çeviri hakkında dönen tüm tartışmalara binaen, Cemal Yardımcı’ nın yetkinliğine ve yarı-yazarlığına dair hükmü de, ancak e’siz ve ‘e’li çevirinin karşılaştırılması ile verebiliriz gibi gözüküyor."A kara, ak boşluk diyordu.
