https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/212896.Mourning_Becomes_Electra
O tema central é o mesmo de Oresteia — a infidelidade e assassínio, a vingança dos filhos e o amor desmedido da filha pelo pai e o ódio pela mãe — no entanto, O'Neill foi menos corajoso do que Ésquilo pois, além de as mortes serem menos sangrentas, não ousou cometer matricídio e foi mais severo no castigo.
Esta preciosa primeira edição, que encontrei num dos meus momentos mágicos com os livros, foi traduzida pelo escritor Henrique Galvão e publicada em 1942, aquando da representação da peça no Teatro Nacional D.
Filho de actores, a sua infância foi passada a acompanhar os pais pelos estados norte-americanos ou em internatos.
This was my first O'Neill experience. Crazy. This cycle of plays reminds me of how interconnected (in sometimes freaky ways) are the ideas of life, death, love, hate, societal standards, and taboos. All of these concepts play a sort of round robin tournament as life combines with death, love, hate, standards, and morals everything connects with everything else. It's certainly not always a pleasant combination, but one worth contemplating. I would love to see this staged, especially to see the art direction's creation of a family whose faces are all life-like masks. Well, you probably just use masks. But still.
With Orin's subsequent suicide, Lavinia (the Electra of the title) becomes a fatalistic recluse in the Mannon mansion.
The author was four times a Pulitzer Prize winner and was the first American dramatist to win the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1936The theme song: OH SHENANDOAH - (Across the Wide Missouri) A Cappella Version BBC R3 has been giving us the The Oresteian Trilogy on Sunday evenings and it has been fantastic listening.
Of course, this is how I ended up with this O'Neill play.Very clever, however I do so prefer Aeschilus.
This play is the definition of a dysfunctional family drama.My God,how frusturated I have become near the end of it.Why is everyone jealous of someone else??!! Sharing is caring.I swear I was expecting a filial makeout session,but the worst happened:an incestuous marriage proposal took place. I really felt uncomfortable reading some passages because the vibes of incest were pounding my brains out.O'Neill sure went there in depicting the ugly dynamics of a dysfunctional family.
Beatrix Lehmann played the role of Lavinia in the 1938 London production and it was considered one of her best roles.
I really love Greek drama and this was a retelling which actually worked quite well.
I know that it is was staged in London as all three plays with a running time of four and a half hours.
For me I enjoyed the first play the best, it focused on the unhealthy relationship of the mother and daughter.
In fact in many ways the play was at it's strongest when it diverged from the source of the myths.
This is one of the classic plays that you hear about, but I hadn't read.
It was rife with tension, madness, incestuous leanings, adultery, death, destructive relationships, revenge, hate, chafing at social mores, skeletons in closets, and general family dysfunction.
Love and hate tug the family members to several breaking points which tended to end scenes.
The stage directions provide interesting info and continuous themes such as the mask-like facial features of the members of the family and the slightly camouflaged ugly facade of their home.
Overall an interesting, though hardly light-hearted read.
I read this one mostly out of historical interest. I'm reasonably fond of theatre and must admit to being puzzled by this play's reputation. To me it was extremely ham-handed. Anything that wasn't taken from the Oresteia was taken straight from Freud. I know Freudian theories of personality were more accepted when the play was written, but to me the relationships of the Mannon family were laughably two-dimensional.
According to the college professor who assigned this, when translated into Norwegian, the title became "Getting Electricity in the Morning." :)
This is a modern retelling of the Greek tragedy "Oresteia" by Aeschylus
I gave this hauntingly morbid story five stars not because it has a good plotline and characters; but because how much it had an effect on me.
So dark, so incestuous, so creepy, so gross; a complete package.Exactly how I like my stories.Toxic family - checkTwisted unlikable characters - checkPowerful dialogues - checkSuicides - checkMurders - checkGuilty conscience - checkStrange symbolic mansions - checkA mountain of bizarre - CHECKSinister love interests - check check check *hint* A WHOLE LOT OF INCEST!Here I go, this is what I want and this is exactly what this play provided.I didn't feel sorry for anyone.
Every single one of them was either a stupid fool or a complete asshole.
So glad this diabolic play is part of my semester course and I got to read it.
Greek tragedy in Puritan America. The doomed loves of a cursed family. Fate as melodrama.
O'Neil has re-told the story from Greek myth 'curse on the house of Atreus', and modernized it according to our times , Lavinia is Electra, Orestes is Orin, Ezra Manon is Agamemnon , Christine is Clytemnestra.
Each character has his flaw, his own personal failure; each one of them is a combination of the inner self, which is the life force, trying to deal with the circumstances of a world he did not make and could not control.
The appeal of the play lies not in "order re-established", but in the realization of man's powerlessness to deal with life in any way that would indicate a universal good.

Brilliant. Simply brilliant.
Cycle of Guilt and Self-Punishment in O’Neil’s   Mourning becomes Electra  This paper explores the theme of guilt and self-punishment in Eugene O’Neil’s very popular revenge tragedy Mourning becomes Electra first performed in 1931. The play is the modern retelling of Greek tragedy Oresteia by Aeschylus. Written as a play cycle constituting three plays, homecoming, the hunted and the haunted, the play also follows a cyclic motion in its content. As Flink puts it, “Circular stories follow a “roun
With all of the Mannons dead, at the end of the play Lavinia becomes an alienated figure and orders her house to be nailed so that she will be alone with her guilt.
Furthermore, Orin writes Mannon family tree and witnesses this guilt residing in the family lives from many generations.
After the death of Ezra and Christine, Lavinia and Orin live like an incestuous couple.
Like her mother poisoned her father to death, she also encourages Orin to commit suicide so that she will be left alone with Peter and she would get a carefree life.
Just recently, quite by accident, I came across a short story by Scott Fitzgerald.
One reviewer of the film is recorded as saying:‘’(the person) who directed and worked on the screenplay of The Last Time I Saw Paris, had better be careful next time he walks past his bookcase, or the portable F.
It’s doubtful that when anyone thinks of Elizabeth Taylor, the actress, patter of tiny feet comes to mind.The film has been described as sentimental, soap-opera drivel; and Fitzgerald’s story is anything but.Why I’ve brought up this short story and the film is that I’ve just finished reading ‘Mourning Becomes Electra’ by Eugene O’Neil.
Lavinia their daughter had not seen any love from her mother since she was a child,and hates and despises her,and when she learns that her mother has killed her father, the hate and revenge she feels towards her mother,leads to Christin's death and then she leads Orin ,her brother ho commit suicide accordingly.All along there is the unusual love of Lavinia, for her father and the obsessed unusual love of Orin, for his mother.The Mannon residence is likened to a tomb,and indeed ,all the characters therein are condemned to death.Every thing takes place either in the evening or late at night, they all prefer darkness to daylight ,and the very dark sides of the characters are revealed and comes to the surface.Hate,revenge,plotting and...dominates the family.It is a tragedy,and O'Neill had succeeded in introducing to us the bitter and darker side of the inner circles of the family life as it is,though partly melodramatic.Thank you dear Helga for recommending this great play to me.
It takes place shortly after the end of the Civil War, but this play (or trilogy of plays, rather) is distinctly 20th century.
O'Neill was actually born in 1888, two decades after the end of the war, so he doesn't seem to be trying to capture something distinct about that era, nor does he pretend as if he is.
This was a very good read and held me enthralled, much like the works of Henrik Ibsen I read recently.
أقوياء جدا."كانت قوية بالفعل أباً عن جداً عن أم!
كانت إلكترا؟ لا أظن لم أشعر بأن حب الأب هو ما دفعها لذلك بقدر ما هو الكره والغيرة ودافع الانتقام..
لكن بقدر ما لم تكن إلكترا كان أخوها أوديب!"أنني لا أطلب الغفران من أحد، إنني أغفر لنفسي."مسرحية امريكية ملبئة بالانفعالات وبحوار قوي جدا ..
تستحق القراءة."إن كل شيء ما خلا الحب باطل- أليس كذلك؟ إنه في المحل الأول ولا يقدر بثمن أو يجب أن نحصل على السلام من أجل السلام- إن الإنسان ضعيف ولا قدرة وليس لإنسان الحق في أن يحرم الآخرين من السلام." *توقيتها بالنسبة لي كان يوم أهينت إلكترا التي بداخلي ..
i went on a weekend trip to ireland, and read one play in about an hour in between destinations.
o'neill does a fantastic job building suspense in each act and at the end of each play.
you'll be excited to see where the characters end up at the end of the play.
i can't say that it was too shocking, as o'neill gives clear juxtapositions between characters and you aren't surprised to see where they ultimately end up.
but then again, i feel that that is inevitable when you can read all the directions the playwright gives to the actors.
I've been reading the Library of America's collection of O'Neill plays and have been intrigued by the growth of the artist through one-acts and weird experiments, but hardly any play worked all the way through until this one.The structure is based on the Oedipus/Electra myths but for once O'Neill does not overtly force the symbolism and lets the Orin/Lavinia characters stand as there own beings, rather than stand-ins.
I would love to see this in a theater - in fact I would love to see an opera (and I despise opera!) of this work!
A family with Oedipus and Electra complexes abounding is doomed to repeat the recurring love/hate relationships which were the foundation of their family.
Each attempts to get from family the kind of love they should get from lovers, and as a result none can build on a healthy foundation that a family connection should afford them.
The cycle of the family is a predictable recurring dysfunction that the characters nevertheless seem powerless to stop.
In a way, each character becomes his ancestor and repeats the misfortunes that happened in a previous lifetime, destined to repeat history because they have not learned from it.
This really is a masterpiece. While it may sadden your heart out, it is wonderfully written and prone to so many wonderful readings. A reworking of the classical Greek tragedy of Electra, set in America after the Civil War, it is a dream raw material for any theater director. i've seen many good renderings and I believe any actor who pulled off one of the roles in this can be credited with true talent :)
I read this when I was in high school and that is a very long time ago. Still I consider this one of those books that did change something profoundly in my knowledge about drama, literature, theater & greek mythes. A classic with a modern twist that can be dark and creepy at times. I am tempted to say that I do consider this a must read for anyone who loves Greek mythology.
The concept of this masterpiece is something that happens, but people do not like to think about it. The writing is excellent, but it takes the human soul to dark places. That is typical of the author. Incest is not a pleasant thought, but this work has other disturbing characters and subjects. The minds of the players turn on a dime!
My first O'Neill experience. Wow. The man is so cinematographical - it's one of the most detailed plays I've encountered, he has every expression and every detail in mind. I'm a sucker for recurring family tragedies. and the Greeks. Saludos for this play. I'd really like to see it on stage one day.
I know I read this in college but I think it deserves a re-read.
Μετάφραση Δέσπω Διαμαντίδου!Τα υπόλοιπα απλώς !!!!!
A purported retelling of The Oresteia, this play is really Faulkner through and through.
Eugene O'Neill and William Faulkner largely overlapped in their active years.
The magnificent Clytemnestra, powerfully motivated by her love for her dead daughter and her political ambitions, gives way to Christine, motivated by whatever lies beyond the pleasure principle.
Every main character is a copy of one of the two prototypes, one male (Abe-Ezra-Adam Brant-Orin) and one female (Marie Brantome-Christine-Vinnie).
Every character wants a copy of the opposite sex prototype and loathes all other copies of itself.
Greek tragedy meets soap opera was my immediate impression.
The mansion inspired by ancient Greek architecture, the townspeople becoming a Greek chorus straight out of Sophocles, oh and speaking of Sophocles a double dose of Electra complex too...it all bordered on overkill.
One difference from the soap operas is that when the characters died they stayed that way.
But on second thought, the dead consistently exerted a weighty pressing influence so maybe that's more a similarity than a difference.
