https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/863689.The_Moon_Pool
It was a time in which there were still many unexplored parts of the earth and Merritt did his best to fill them with his imaginings.
There is much in the book that makes me wonder whether the ideas were cadged from other writers of the time or were original with Merritt.
It is clear that for those of us who were captured by the strange civilization of LOST island, Merritt is the source of the smoke monster concept.
How much more I cannot say, maybe the four-toed statues on the island are reflective of the lost-civilization, the old ones, that Merritt offers.
And there's a not-to-be-missed creation story that gives you a good example of Merritt's wonderful imagination.
This got to be annoying in a 400 page book, and reminded me a bit of Kevin Costner (gag) in Robin Hood, though clearly O'Keefe, unlike Costner, is quite good at it.
And then there's the whole "Irish" thing (you'll see if you read the book).
If you're a fantasy fan (as in the history of fantasy and pulp writing), you should read this book, but keep in mind, even though it's Merritt's best known book, it's also his first novel, and to my mind not his best.
By the time that Goodwin arrives at the scene of the crimes, he’s accompanied by a few others who want to know what’s going on in the Nan Madol ruins: Larry O’Keefe, a roguish Irishman who’s a lieutenant in the British Navy’s Royal Flying Corps, Olaf Huldricksson, a Norseman whose wife and daughter have been kidnapped by The Dweller, and a Russian named Marakinoff.The Moon Pool is a traditional SFF predator/lost world adventure story with an Indiana Jones feel.
I think Merritt would have written this better today — nearly 100 years later!Other than the shallow romance, The Moon Pool doesn’t feel like such an old book — it’s completely accessible to modern readers — and it’s free!
While Pulp era writers Robert E. Howard and H. P. Lovecraft have remained popular over 80+ years after they stopped writing A. Merritt seems to have fallen into the dreamlands. If you are a fan of REH or HPL you should try Merritt out. He has Howard's fast paced story combined with Lovecraft's sense of the weird and unusual. Always a nice entertaining read. Recommended
This exotic land has even a Crimson Sea!The world is dominated by the Dweller,an undescribable blob of constantly changing lights, quite attractive and quite deadly.
Larry O'Keefe an Irish pilot during the war,(WW1) and a believer in the little people, had joined the explorers late, is the muscles, of the group.He meets with Yolara,the high priestess of the Shinging One,(the Dweller) this woman promptly falls in love with him, but is she evil?
With the help of friendly natives,some really ,really, alien ones , the outsiders revolt againist the Dweller.
4.5 stars. Great early SF story with beautiful, evocative writing and a great story. Reads like a classic.
He offers to co-operate with Goodwin and his companions but clearly he cannot be trusted.The Moon Pool leads to a world far beneath the surface of the Earth, a world inhabited by the descendants of the builders of Nan-Matal and various other races including highly intelligent frog-people.The priestess Yolara and her consort Lugur (who comes of a race of sturdy dwarves) serve a strange entity known as the Shining One. The Shining One is not so much a creature as a kind artificially created thing composed of lunar lights and force fields.
Όμορφο old school fantasy που για μία ακόμα φορά Αγγλοσάξωνες ταξιδεύουν σε μια φανταστική χώρα (εδώ μιλάμε για έναν υπόγειο πολιτισμό όπου εξερευνούν τα μυστικά του και αντιμετωπίζουν ένα πλάσμα πέρα από τα όρια της αντίληψης. Ο Merritt εντυπωσιάζει με τις λεπτομερείς περιγραφές αλλά και με την φαντασία του που ξεπερνάει ακόμα και πολλούς σύγχρονους. Κρίμα που η μετάφραση και η γενικότερη έκδοση είναι αναχρονιστική, κάνοντας την ανάγνωση δύσκολη. Τα έργα του Merritt δεν έχουν πλέον δικαιώματα οπότε βρίσκονται ελευθερα στο δίκτυο, συνεπτώς μπορούν να εκδοθούν ξανά στα Ελληνικά σε νέες μεταφράσεις (αν και χλωμό το κόβω...)....
I'm all about the moon.Admission #2: I decided to purchase it because on the cover are the words A Forerunner to ABC's LOST.
A trip to The Moon Pool takes you from Merritt's adventure into a new way to get LOST.
This is clearly one of those times where some publisher is all, "Hey, we might be able to make money off of this if we republish this novel from 1918 and make relationships between it and LOST!"I'm not saying there aren't connections, or similarities.
But I wouldn't spend too much time thinking how similar or dissimilar it is to LOST.
Sui generis “…the Shining One pulsed and spiraled in evilly glorious lambency of sparkling plumes.” There’s much to annoy, confuse, and dismay the modern reader in Abraham Merritt’s seminal pulp novel written in 1918. Among the hurdles the novel presents are the author’s singular purple prose, laid on with a trowel; several irritating characters – chief among them the stalwart hero-figure, one Larry O’Keefe; long descriptive passages that often leave the reader completely confused; and multiple
Among the hurdles the novel presents are the author’s singular purple prose, laid on with a trowel; several irritating characters – chief among them the stalwart hero-figure, one Larry O’Keefe; long descriptive passages that often leave the reader completely confused; and multiple suspensions of the main action, filled with aimless discourses on scientific theory (the ponderings of Dr. Goodwin, the narrator) as well as sequences that do nothing to advance the plot but simply seem to be the author venting whatever fantastic images are crowding his fevered brain.Still… and this is a very big 
All feature the concept of an ecosystem shut off from the world and where Burroughs and Verne tended to freeze evolution in the far past, Merritt goes further by extrapolating certain evolutionary developments in animals and plants (Indeed, Merritt seems incredibly knowledgeable about botany in particular)This novel also features an Elder Race, an ancient species of birdlike creatures which have evolved far beyond the human level of development: The Silent Ones.For its time, the story was given a patina of realism by the clever use of footnotes and references to real academic works.
From the depths of the South Pacific emerges "the Dweller." American Walter Goodwin leads an expedition to discover what it is--and prevent it from claiming more victims....a mystery and a fantasy from the rich--and unusual--imagination of Abraham Merritt. Merritt ( 1884-1943 ) was one of the most popular American writers of science fiction/fantasy in the early 20th Century, and now almost completely forgotten. Yet he had a tremendous influence on the field. "The Moon Pool" was his first great success and arguably his greatest book. I think I would agree with that, upon my second reading of this book.
Readers of "The Moon Pool" in 1918 were so convinced of the book's veracity that they wrote to "All-Story Weekly" wanting more information.
Throckmartin's tale is eerie and quite suspenseful; indeed, those first 30 pages of the book are so very intense that the reader will be amazed to realize that there's another 250 pages in this novel yet to go!
But for the most part, Merritt's prose is extremely effective at conveying a sense of alien wonder, and "The Moon Pool" does indeed live up to its reputation as a fantasy classic.
Many will already know the much-anthologised short fantasy story by Merritt called 'The Moon Pool'.
This is its extension into his first full length 'pulp' novel.The short story took us to the point where we felt the mystery of what is later revealed as the Shining One or the Dweller.
Jules Verne, Edgar Rice Burroughs, and H.P. Lovecraft all get together to write a book...This book is nuts.
Set not too long after the First World War, it starts out as a Pacific Island adventure story, ramps up the weird with some ghost-story elements, and then turns into something else entirely.
They wouldn't be out of place in a movie serial.
In fact, this novel would make a pretty baller movie serial.
You can definitely see the influence of Verne and the influence on Lovecraft.
I was reminded of John Taine's book The Purple Sapphire, but The Moon Pool is definitely a much better book.
Fans of old adventure tales should track down a copy.
I'm really amazed just how well thought out and imaginative this book was.
This is the second book by Merritt I've read, and the guy is great.
Similar to Lovecraft, but weaving more plot, character, and women into his writing.
The book did take me a while to read, partly because many sections are filled with detailed descriptions that I had to read 3 or 4 times to try to envision.
This is a common theme in older sci fi; I think because these books were before tv the imagery was considered more important.
Abraham Merritt's magnum opus. Merritt was a pulp writer from early in the 20th century who suffered from a terrible ailment; he had a regular job that paid well, so his output of weird fantasy and science fiction is terribly small. This is a wonderful book. Read it. You will not be disappointed.

To summarise the brainless plot, a scientist and some mates go in search of another scientist who has been swallowed and made to dance by a moon-activated monster of lights called the Shining One. They head deep underground and discovers a lost civilisation of dwarwish men, elfin women and giant frog people, discuss a whole load of pseudo-scientific codswallop, and defeat the baddies with the aid some giant birdfaced gods and the healing power of love.I know, I know, it's a fantasy novel, what do you expect?
I admit that I don't usually like this kind of thing, but I can get by with anything that's well written and convinces you that the author deserved to get into print.
This is particularly true of the first part of the novel, which is set on and around the island of Ponape.
Even after paragraph after paragraph devoted to depictions of his otherworldly settings, I was more often than not mystified as to their physical layouts and it made some of the action confusing.The pacing is problematic as well.
The story slowed down considerably once the action moved underground, with those confusing descriptions and too much uninteresting characterization.
However, things pick up considerably at the end, with an exciting, apocalyptic climax that features some extraordinary imagery.
As long as a reader can get beyond these faults, (that weren't faults of the time period it was written,) then there are a number of beautiful aspects to the novel that redeem it.
It was easy to turn the novel into a cheesy 50's sci-fi in my mind, but giving it modern special effects.
Too bad this would turn into one of the most absolutely horrible films...
What I am reminded of is the sheer imaginative power of frank l baum or similar contemporaries, in other ways, a straight adventure novel, as simple as can be.
This is one of those early fantasy novels that predates the modern paradigm of elves, dwarves, dragons and a medieval or Renaissance world with a bit of magic thrown in.
It's set in a world of contemporary explorers who find a bizarre civilization that's both technologically advanced and socially primitive.
It's a classic, but I have read several that I think are better, such as the little known THE GODDESS OF ATVATABAR.
Still, it's an enjoyable read, and worth it if you're a fan of the early fantasy genre.
The story is classic proto-SF; voyage to an underground land with magical technology, pseudoscientific explanations of supernatural phenomena, world-ending evil plans stopped in the nick of time by daring westerners in a foreign land. I finished it, but it was tough going: Merritt's breathless descriptive prose (in the introduction to my edition, Robert Silverberg refers to it as "lambent this, coruscating that") has not aged well, and becomes tiresome by the end. Would-be SciFi archaeologists should read Haggard first.
That was one wicked confused book! It's a horror story. It's a White Superrace Within the Hollow Earth story. It's Stapledonian big picture trippiness! It's a Power of Twoo Love climax straight outa Hollywood.They really should have made a movie out of it in 1963. All of the glowy energy beings and disintegrator rays would lend themselves to that era's SFX, and the pastel togas everybody wears would be perfect. A young William Shatner could absolutely devour the scenery as the Fearless & Colorful Irish-American Airman James O'Keefe. Ah, well. Too late now.
4.5 “There is an energy beyond and above ether, a purposeful, sentient force that laps like an ocean the furthest-flung star, that transfuses all that ether bears, that sees and speaks and feels in us and in you, that is incorporate in beast and bird and reptile, in tree and grass and all living things, that sleeps in rock and stone, that finds sparkling tongue in jewel and star and in all dwellers within the firmament. And this ye call consciousness!”  Reseña completa
An interesting if dated sci-fi yarn from early in the 20th century, featuring both some proto-zombies and situations fleshed out further in the Shaver Mystery stories of the fifties. The narratiilve suffers from the early pulp problem of far too much recitative exposition, but the characters have some vim and heft to them. A fun read that might not be to everyone's taste, considering modern SF sensibilities.
This has the narrative style of H.G. Wells with the atmosphere of Lovecraft. Lovely style of writing, but a bit of a chore to get through.I think I would have enjoyed it even more if Larry hadn't been saying darlin' every few sentences. All the pet names are rather aggravating.
In 1919, the two were combined and edited into the novel The Moon Pool.
It is a subterranean earth story, like Jules Verne’s Journey to the Center of the Earth, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s The Lost World and Edgar Rice Burroughs Pellucidar series; but, unlike its predecessors it is not a savage lost land full of dinosaurs and such.
Merritt was listed in “Appendix N: Inspirational and Educational [influences upon the Dungeons & Dragons game]”, by Gary Gygax.
A. Merritt is listed as one of the prime influences upon the game along with Robert E Howard, Fritz Leiber, Jack Vance, L.
And when I investigated, I realised that this was published a decade before the first of the Cthulhu stories, and so the kinds of signposts I thought I was reading hadn't actually been fleshed out yet (yes, there was eldritch horror before Lovecraft.
What it is is a great science fiction adventure story with some political intrigue thrown in.
And Godwin, the narrator, does a great job of presenting scientific method, while O'Keefe, the semi-superstitious foil, gets multiple opportunities to point out the faith/superstition in Godwin's viewpoint.Other aspects worth noting: while there are time appropriate attitudes to women, those who feature have agency, power, and conversations, while those who are oppressed are treated that way more from class than gender politics.
От чистия ужас в първата част, през мистериите на Нан-Мадал в микронезия, до невероятните приключения в един подземен свят, който автора описва през очите на своите герои, едновремено с върха на научните термини на своето време и с мистиката на ирландския и скандинавски фолклор.Когато приятелят на д-р.
Групата се замесва във вътрешната политика на този странен свят, разбрали че това може да спаси техния от чудовищна експанзия.Наситена с приключения, битки, мистерия и наивни, през погледа на времето, научни теории книга писана през далечната 1919.
