https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/462893.The_Moon_by_Night
My L'Engle kick is turning into a fetish.
I think that had I been reading this as a young teen in 1963 I would have clung to it like grim death.
But it didn't stop me loving the book.In addition to the things I'm complaining about, there's a timeless story here too, wherein a young girl tries to make sense out of the senseless, to grasp the meaning, if any, of her life at the same time she's beginning to pull away from her family of origin and find her own path.
And makes all my bitching about beatniks sound as small as it is.It's a wonderful book.

This review also appears on my blog, Read-at-Home Mom.The Moon By Night is the second book in Madeleine L’Engle’s Austin series, occurring roughly two years after the events of Meet the Austins.
Vicky also makes her own internal, spiritual journey, as she begins to come of age.Back in the Fall, when I reviewed Back When You Were Easier to Love, I wrote, “The right book is the one that just fits.
The title of the book comes from Psalm 121, in which Vicky finds great comfort: The Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand.The sun shall not smite thee by dayNor the moon by night.
Up to a few days ago my life had been all of a piece, exciting sometimes and even miserable, but always following the same and simple pattern or home and school and family.” From this point onward, Vicky faces the confusion of change starting with the decision of her parents to move the family to New York.
Since then, I have spent much time sorting through my questions about God. Oh, and I have also thought a lot about the nature of love, a topic that is naturally a large part of books for young adults.
This one, like the first, is told from Vicky's point of view and focuses on her experience of growing up.In The Moon by Night, Vicky and her family are traveling across the United States on a camping vacation as a sort of last hurrah before they have to spend a year or two in New York for her father's research.
I think I understand him just fine, and what I understand is that he is POISON and Vicky needs to steer clear of him and Poly could do SO MUCH BETTER.So anyway, I would probably give The Moon by Night another star if it weren't for Zachary Gray.
Growing up, L'Engle was one of my favorite authors, and I read pretty much any book I could find by her.
I did like the uncle and Andy (whatever happened to them in later books?)The message/moralizing here is a bit over the top, too.
L'Engle has a definite point of view always, and I don't always have to agree with her conclusions, but I like when they are expressed a bit more subtly.Bottom line: Skip this one and read A Ring of Endless Light instead.
There's really no better way to pass a quiet Sunday afternoon in the hammock (or fireside couch) than with a L'Engle story.'The moon by night' was charming, delightful, enjoyable but not dull from lack of heart-stopping action.
I regret that I tried so hard to be a muffin at that age--read the book, you'll understand--that I overlooked what was right before my eyes.
This is the grace that L'Engle's writing provides: she assumes that her readers are intelligent, caring people of all ages.
Her books are living water in a dry and dusty land!
The time is contemporary for the year the book was published (1960) and they are a tight knit bunch with wise and loving parents.In The Moon By Night, Vicky Austin is again the narrator.
Vicky will be forced to leave her friends and the only lifestyle she has ever known and go to a new school, make new friends and experience urban life for the first time.The parents have decided the whole family will take an extended vacation for the summer, a camping trip across the United States to California and back.
Not as good as the first one in the series because it is much more about just Vicky and her growing as a teenager and beginning to have romantic relationships.
In other words, it's just not as well-rounded of a book with different characters have multiple shades of self and growing as characters.
Reading a book written in the early 60s which address the fears of nuclear destruction was also interesting.L'Engle can just flat out write.
That is actually the only one in this series I read as a kid, and I remember absolutely loving it, but I hardly remember any specifics about it, so I am looking forward to it.
Re-reading some books by a favorite author. As I have said before, A Wrinkle in Time is a favorite, her other books are very good. I am enjoying the re-read.
SUPER dated. I am not on team Zachary! Interesting descriptions.
Probably 3.5 stars, but I'm rounding up because I'm no longer the target audience and I liked this a lot better when I was younger.I enjoy this book (unlike Meet the Austins, I remembered it almost in its entirety), but I did find it a bit dated.
I really enjoy the Greek professors and Andy (though I remember that part of the book being a lot longer).
John and Vicky's relationship continues to be one of my favourite things, though I can't help be struck by how exceptional all of the Austins are.
The first book about the Austin family was knock-your-socks off adorable, and this one flipped the script a little.
They leave their charming country house and little town life and go on a long road trip across the country.
I like this family, and Vicky, so I didn't not like this book, exactly.
I was into it at the beginning as the family began their trip but as it went it started a drag.
It seemed to drag and by the time they hit Canada, I pretty much skimmed the rest.
What can I say? I'm a sucker for teenage romance then throw in some love triangle and one of the boy is the bad boy type... ohhh teenage love and teenage drama. This book made me wish that I am young again. Vicky Austin is growing up, John Austin is still smart and handsome but Zachary Gray soooo bad and I love it! ;p This one is very easy to read and is a nice coming-of-age stroy. Its a nice way to past the time. :)
Solid 3.5 stars. Didnt like it as much as the first though them traveling across country was pretty cool and I am growing to really like Vicky. The earthquake part seemed a little too convenient but eh, that's fine. Still plan on continuing with this series though, I need to see if she talks to Zachary or Andy again.
I really like the Austin Family! They are fun to read about and I like how even when the didn't always get along they still love each other.
L'Engle is an excellent storyteller. Although I cringed a little at the teenager angst, I really enjoyed the book.
It’s so nice for Vicky to have a relative who actually somewhat understands her•another favorite part would have to be when Suzy offhandedly mentions a tesseract and Vicky is like, “it would be nice if we could have, like Meg and Charles Wallace Murry, but that’s another story.” It’s so infuriating but also so funny that they treat the Murry’s as fictional characters but just two books later Vicky will fall in love with a boy who worked for them :-) •[I’ve tried and failed to figure out the timeline of the entirety of the L’Engle books so many times and it’s so impossible, I think L’Engle just honestly didn’t care???] •”comparisons are odious” was one of my fav parts of the book too•let the record show that I hate Zachary Gray with a burning passion and I wish he wasn’t in this book OR A Ring of Endless Light, OR that he wouldn’t bother Polly in her two books, either, but alas...
Vicky's struggle toward her own worldview and her prickly inconsistency as a teenager are mostly well-portrayed but sometimes overdone, as are some of the values L'Engle is communicating, and I sided more with the rest of the family's opinion of Zachary this time around (view spoiler)[although I still don't blame Vicky for succumbing to his charms.
(Vicky's dad is clearly Head of the Family and even if he's a nice Head of the Family it's still obnoxious.)I really do appreciate the thoughtful picture of a faith in development/transition, with little of the weird Christianese and few of the stereotypes that plague a lot of Christian literature.
I also appreciate the lack of weird gushy over-descriptive paragraphs on people's appearance.
This is partly because L'Engle gives the "voice" of the narrator of the two books (Vicky Austin) just enough of an adult-looking-back perspective, and it is partly because L'Engle weaves ordinary family life currents with key dramatic family life moments in an artful and moving way, at least for me.
I have always found appealing those works of literature for children and young people which explore daily life at the same time they convey and cast a larger vision for life for the reader.
And taking my own recommendation, I now am going to start the third in the Austins series, "The Young Unicorns."
(I’d have given it 5 stars then.) It’s beat-up from all the times I've read it.
It’s been 30ish years since I last read it though, and I don’t really know why I pulled it off the shelf, but I’m glad I did.
This time though, I really registered the two historical events that set this book in 1959 (Queen Elizabeth’s tour of Canada and the Yellowstone Earthquake).
So, note to people designing/choosing covers for future editions: if you’re using an illustration of the main characters, please, please, please, set them in their time.
I didn’t notice it when I was a kid, but it raised my eyebrows this time around.
That said, it still speaks to me now.Young Vicky Austin is now 14, and learning just who she is.
And what happens when you meet someone different, not the same ethically as you?I enjoyed the tour across the country, especially the descriptions of the Palo Duro Canyon, not far from where I live now.
I also enjoyed the philosophical passages in the book.
It was exactly what I needed to take a break from my hectic real-world life.Thoughtful young teens would enjoy this book.
Adults who still remember what it was like to be 14 and who enjoy philosophy would like it, too.
There's a family wedding, and then most of the book encompasses a family camping holiday, visiting quite a number of US states and parts of Canada too.It's a journey of discovery for Vicky, including the introduction of two low-key romantic figures, and it's also something of a natural history and geography lesson.
However there's enough story to make it worth reading, particularly for fans of the series or the author.
I think it would make a good read-aloud for children of about eight or nine and up who are interested in learning more about the United States.
Surprisingly relevant to today, despite the fact that it takes place during the summer of 1959 (the book doesn't explicitly give a year, but I'm going by the earthquake that takes place in the book).
But as Vicky says her mother says Shakespeare says, etc., "comparisons are odious." And there is so much more that has parallels in today's world.Also, yes, this is a book about a teenage girl as she grows up and discovers her place in this world, but I'm a 30-year-old woman and I found plenty to identify with.It would be cool to retrace the journey the Austins took across North America.
I always enjoy L'Engle's writing, but this was not one of my favorites by her.
It was very character-driven rather than plot-driven.
I usually like that, but Vicky Austen (the main character) is not one of my favorite characters.
I do think it is probably a very realistic portrayal of a young teenage girl and I am curious about what will happen to her in future books.
However, it was a struggle to get through even though it was short.
Again, I love L'Engle's writing style in this book and in every book I've read by her, but this was just ok for me.
Love seeing the character development; however, it's hard to grasp that a 14 year old would be as nonchalant about receiving attention from a boys. Vicky is a very mature 14 year old. I don't think I would have been that way at 14 and looking at my 14 year old daughter now, I don't see her behaving similarly to Vicky. As a parent, I don't think I would have been as willing to let her hang out with Zachary alone. :)
A charming and heart-warming adolescent beginning to grow up novel. The Austins have their problems but they are a good family that doesn't have any major issues other than just normal family dramas, that to teenagers can seem to be very large. They are not all goody-two-shoes but they are decent people. You don't run into that many families like this in literature any more.Nice read when you want a heart-warming story that doesn't have anything really bitter-sweet about it.
In a time when most families are lucky to get a week of vacation together (or for some, any vacation together at all!), it was a little hard to suspend my disbelief of this family taking an entire summer off to travel around the country camping. I did like the accounts of all the different parks they stayed at and how the parks put on educational and entertaining programs each night.
Being well, well past my teenage angst phase, I didn’t fit the target audience for this book, but still very much enjoyed it, and hope that when my baby is old enough to have her own teen drama, that she would pardon this book it’s couple of hokey features (slang mostly) and read it and find some solace.
