https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104608.Happy_Days
Αυτόν που παραμένει ο άντρας της και που κάποτε, όπως αναφέρει σε ανύποπτο χρόνο,  την αγάπησε πολύ, τώρα της αρκεί απλά να βρίσκεται «σε ακτίνα ακοής».Δεν μπορούμε να ξέρουμε πώς και γιατί αυτή η γυναίκα βρέθηκε καλυμμένη ως την μέση, αίσθηση μου όμως είναι ότι αυτό στο οποίο βουλιάζει είναι η ίδια η ζωή που μέρα-μέρα γλιστράει από τα χέρια της.
Κάθε μέρα είναι εκεί, σε αυτόν τον λόφο μέσα στον οποίο βουλιάζει (ήδη στην δεύτερη σκηνή είναι καλυμμένη μέχρι τον λαιμό) προσπαθώντας να φαίνεται αμέριμνη, να μιλάει για το παρελθόν, γιατί μόνο αυτό έχει, χωρίς όμως να κάνει μεγάλη σπατάλη λέξεων.Οι λέξεις, μαζί με την μαύρη τσάντα, φαίνεται να είναι το μοναδικό της όπλο απέναντι σε αυτή την μονότονη καθημερινότητα.



At the start of the play she seems to be alone, but soon we see that there is a man (Willie) on the far side of the mound, reading a newspaper, though we see only the back of his head for the whole of the first act.
Subsequent readings throw up all sorts of allusions and echoes that completely escaped you the first time, and if you then (and only then) read a guide to the play you recognise it for the masterpiece it is: a highly-polished jewel, a starkly concentrated appraisal of the human condition packed into two short acts, that lesser writers would and do take volumes to laboriously spell out.
“If you don't know where you are currently standing, you're dead.”Happy days! LOL!I like this play. I consider myself a big fan of the absurd theatre – it represents life as it is.Winnie and her husband Willie, represented most people nowadays – sinking in their daily routines without having any purpose. Reading the dialogue between them was a pleasure for me, I enjoyed it. I think it was simple and meaningful. I think Happy Days is more beautiful than Beckett’s most famous play Waiting for Godo
‏“If you don't know where you are currently standing, you're dead.”Happy days! LOL!I like this play. I consider myself a big fan of the absurd theatre – it represents life as it is.Winnie and her husband Willie, represented most people nowadays – sinking in their daily routines without having any purpose. Reading the dialogue between them was a pleasure for me, I enjoyed it. I think it was simple and meaningful. I think Happy Days is more beautiful than Beckett’s most famous play Waiting for Godot. I liked it more.

This kind of makes you imagine all kinds of reasons why and how the woman and her husband are stuck there and living like that.
Showing how people no matter what go on with life and talk hopeful and positive-saying how enjoyable things are- when you can't imagine how they endure it all.
She even forgets if she did or did not comb, what does it matter?Both husband and wife pining away waiting for their own and each others death, sometimes long for it and sometime fearing it.What also was interesting to me was when Winnie was saying how absurd it was that she had to wake at the sound of a bell and sleep at the sound of the bell.
زن مدام در حال صحبت و تکگویی است و مرد زیاد صحبت نمیکند و در تکرار شرایط زندگی زن، بیان اندک جملاتی از مرد باعث میشود که زن آن روز را روز خوش خود بداند.
با پیش رفتن داستان زن در تکرار زمان و زندگی باز هم امیدوار است تا روزی خوش داشته باشد.
زن مدام حرف میزند ولی مرد ساکت است و هردو در پیله تنهایی خو اسیرند.
وینی و ویلی محبوس در میان حفره ها هستند.
پاهای ویلی آزاد است و اگر بخواهد میتواند وینی را از حفره دراورد و هردو بروند....از انج
زن مدام در حال صحبت و تک‌گویی است و مرد زیاد صحبت نمی‌کند و در تکرار شرایط زندگی زن، بیان اندک جملاتی از مرد باعث می‌شود که زن آن روز را روز خوش خود بداند.
با پیش رفتن داستان زن در تکرار زمان و زندگی باز هم امیدوار است تا روزی خوش داشته باشد.
زن مدام حرف میزند ولی مرد ساکت است و هردو در پیله تنهایی خو اسیرند.
پاهای ویلی آزاد است و اگر بخواهد میتواند وینی را از حفره دراورد و هردو بروند....از انجا فرار کنند اما هردواسیر خاک و سکون و سکوتند و گویا منتظر....منتظر روزهای خوش نداشته!
WINNIE What would you say, Willie, speaking of your hair, them or it? (Pause.) The hair on your head, I mean. (Pause. Turning a little further) The hair on your head, Willie, what would you say speaking of the hair on your head, them or it?Long pause.WILLIE It.WINNIE (turning back front, front). Oh you are going to talk to me today, this is going to be a happy day! (Pause. Joy off.) Another happy day.
The reason for a one star rating, presented without comment:-no pain- (looks for toothbrush)- hardly any- (takes up toothbrush)-greatthng that- (examines handle of brush) -nothg like it- (examines handle, reads) -pure ..
what?- (lays down brush)-blndnext- (takes oﬀ spectacles)-ah well- (laysdown spectacles)-seen enough- (feels inbodice for handkerchief) - I suppose- (takesout folded handkerchief)-by now- (shakesout handkerchief)-what are those wonderfullines- (wipes one eye) - woe woe is me­(wipes the other) - to see what I see- (looksfor spectacles) - ah yes-(takes up spectacles)- wouldn't ms it - (starts polishingspectacles, breathing on lenses) - or would I ?- (polishes) - holy light - (polishes) - bobup out of dark - (polishes) - blaze of hellshlight.
Another great play. Another happy day.
Evidently Beckett regarded Winnie as a kind of earth mother spirit, indomitable, and I do find some patronizing piety or maybe just pity here, a refusal of the corrosive irony Beckett's male heroes have to endure in the midst of their own eschatological travails.
Unless we are to take her purgatorial state in the sand as a Dantean punishment for her ostensibly naive good-natured and somewhat dim-witted stoicism or even for her half-repressed eroticism; but Beckett's simply making fun of her would be more intolerable than his unironically sentimentalizing her.
As an image, Winnie in the sand is striking, unforgettable; but as a narrative, I find it thin.
If you left the performance 5, 15, 25, or 35 minutes into the play, or stayed at the end, it wouldn't have made a difference.
People like clever writers and clever plays, but I think sometimes the emperor really has no clothes.
No profundity, just a joke on us, that we are willing to see a Becket play because Becket wrote it, and then ponder continuously thinking there must be some profound meaning within.
If you cut out words from a newspaper and threw them on a page randomly, I think it would make for a more enjoyable performance.
" The earth is very tight today, can it be I have put on flesh, I trust not."
there again seems to be a palpable curtain both around and among the thoughts, speech, and behaviors of the winnie--her rambling commentary seemingly falling mute after immediate realization and encountering a hopelessly unpredictable and incomprehensible audience in willie, who too seems to be playing out an absurd experience of self.
so far." the ending is traditional to beckett in its dark comedy; winnie's hopeful delusion is carried forward just above the hollow misery of choiceness acceptance of either disappointment or death as willie acknowledges her by grunting a monosyllabic truncation of her name, "win".
เปนบทละครทีอานยากทีสุดของเบคเกตตเทาทีเคยอานมา ทังเรืองคือการพลามอยางเลือนลอยบนหัวขอทีไหลเลือนไปมาดวยภาษาทีแตกๆ หักๆ ของวินนี หญิงวัยกลางคนซึงถูกฝังอยูในทราย โดยจะมีเสียงตอบจากวิลลี ชาย (ทีเหมือนจะเปน) คนรักของเธอนานๆ ครัง เราเคยคิดวา โกโดต กับ เอนดเกม คือทีสุดของความแอบเสิรดแลว แตเจอเรืองนีเขาไปแอบเสิรดกวาในทุกๆ ดาน อยางฉากทีวินนีเลาถึงคูรักคูหนึงทีเดินมาเจอเธอแลวงงวาเธอฝังตัวอยูในทรายทำไม หรือตอนทีวิลลีไตเนินในองคสองมันชวนเหวอสุดแตทีตองยอมรับจริงๆ คือเบคเกตตนีบรรเจิดฉิบหายกับการสรางเงือนไขแปลกๆ
เป็นบทละครที่อ่านยากที่สุดของเบ็คเก็ตต์เท่าที่เคยอ่านมา ทั้งเรื่องคือการพล่ามอย่างเลื่อนลอยบนหัวข้อที่ไหลเลื่อนไปมาด้วยภาษาที่แตกๆ หักๆ ของวินนี่ หญิงวัยกลางคนซึ่งถูกฝังอยู่ในทราย โดยจะมีเสียงตอบจากวิลลี่ ชาย (ที่เหมือนจะเป็น) คนรักของเธอนานๆ ครั้ง เราเคยคิดว่า โกโดต์ กับ เอ็นด์เกม คือที่สุดของความแอ๊บเสิร์ดแล้ว แต่เจอเรื่องนี้เข้าไปแอ๊บเสิร์ดกว่าในทุกๆ ด้าน อย่างฉากที่วินนี่เล่าถึงคู่รักคู่หนึ่งที่เดินมาเจอเธอแล้วงงว่าเธอฝังตัวอยู่ในทรายทำไม หรือตอนที่วิลลี่ไต่เนินในองค์สองมันชวนเหวอสุดแต่ที่ต้องยอมรับจริงๆ คือเบ็คเก็ตต์นี่บรรเจิดฉิบหายกับการสร้างเงื่อนไขแปลกๆ เพื่อสะท้อนความน่าสมเพชของชีวิตในโลกที่หาเหตุผลไม่ได้ให้กับตัวละครเพื่อให้ตัวละครพวกนี้แสดงพฤติกรรมน่าสมเพชที่น่าขำออกมา
An absurdist parable about a woman who tries to find the best in her lot as her options narrow in a literal sense, buried up to her waist in sand at first and later up to her neck, her beloved husband virtually invisible and uncommunicative. A proto-feminist work (1961) and one of Beckett's most touching plays.
In the other Beckett plays, the characters almost always recognise that their situations are bleak and depressing.
Like Beckett’s infamous pauses (with which you definitely cannot fuck) the stage directions in ‘Happy Days’ should be followed to the tee.
Of course, as with a lot of Beckett’s works, there is always the chance that the audiences, readers included, may not connect with the piece because of the sometimes intimidating barriers they have to cross to get to the deeper meanings of the play, to understand it.
Jedna Beckettova bonus, da završim s njim do daljnjeg (za cijeli život, po mogućnosti).Dva lika: Winnie i Willie.
Čitam i mislim se: tko, dovraga, može naučiti toliki besmisleni dijalog napamet??
Samo su dva lika, ponavljam.
Pomislio sam da je tome tako jer je radio drama, ali ne: tu su i detaljne, također uglavnom besmislene, didaskalije (P.
Selem se u pogovoru indirektno slaže).
Klišej pitanje, ali zanima me: na čemu je Beckett bio kad je ovo pisao?„Kakav divan današnji dan… “, a događale se same groteskne besmislice.
-> Cinični smijeh nihilista.Na kraju se aludira na grotesknost svega.
"Oh les beaux jours" : sans doute l'une des plus belles, des plus drôles et des plus émouvantes pièces de Beckett.
Une femme bavarde seule, et, chose étrange, est a-demi enterrée, dans un mamelon de terre.
Dans son sac, un revolver, qu'elle n'utilisera pas.
Au deuxième acte, elle est enterrée jusqu'au cou et, hormis le visage, a perdu l'usage de son corps.
Comme à l'accoutumée chez Beckett, les didascalies sont d'une précision surprenante.La deuxième pièce de ce volume, "Pas moi", très courte, se situe dans la continuité de la première : une bouche parle de manière incohérente.
A very sobering tale on the meaninglessness of life!
Because the emotion is only evoked if the play is read correctly or acted correctly.I like how it really intensifies emotions of our seeming meaningless lives...
i.e. when one looks back in a million years, every thing we ever did do (and when we do anything in life, we do it seriously and invest a great deal of care!) will not matter and seem meaningless.
This feeling is felt deeply near or at the end of one's life.
(It's very similar to the feeling of sadness one has on the last day of a vacation).Nevertheless, the play ends on a hopeful tone...
this is a heartbreaking play, and probably the purest and most unsparing of beckett's visions, which is saying something.
some irony in the fact that winnie is beckett's saddest character despite (because of) the fact that she is the most optimistic.it's hard to believe an actress could actually pull this play off.
it's basically a sixty page stationary monologue (winnie's buried waist- (and then neck-) deep through the whole thing, with only the contents of her bag to work with).
i would pay anything to see this performed.
even, like, twenty bucks!There is of course the bag.
There will always be the bag.
Amo esta obrita. Es la segunda vez que la leo. Extrañaba algo de sus ecos, y la necesitaba volver a sentir. No creo que se pueda seguir hablando de Beckett, quiero decir, no creo que tenga sentido, ya se ha dicho demasiado. Pero creo que es vital leerlo, tenerlo presente, tenerlo cerca. Beckett es uno de esos autores demoledores y sin retorno. No son tantos.
والكتاب الذي معي فيه مسرحيتين وهما:لعبة النهاية والأيام السعيدة لن أتحدث عن المسرحيتين لاي سبب من الأسباب لأنهما أما فهو مستوي العقل وفيها من العمق الزائد الذي لا سبيل إلي أمثالي فهم مسرح اللامعقول .وكلمة "" هنيهة صمت "" أكثر كلمة سلتقاها أمام وجهك لم أفهم أي حاجه والله العظيم :D
Να έχω υπάρξει πάντα αυτή που είμαι - και να είμαι τόσο διαφορετική απαυτή που ήμουν.
Να έχω υπάρξει πάντα αυτή που είμαι - και να είμαι τόσο διαφορετική απ΄αυτή που ήμουν.
Matching soundtrack :Cheval - Igorrr
In fact this indeterminacy is one of the overriding themes in the plays of Beckett.The second act begins with her buried further up to her neck and, combined with her memories that suggest a previous life when she was not buried, present a degenerative condition that is inevitable.The play is one of contrasts with the chief one being that between Winnie's optimism and the gravity of her situation.
In the second act she has even less to be cheerful about yet still refers to life as "a mercy".
She decays into sands of time caught, struck in memories of happy days of past and the hopeless hope of a future that would resemble more to the past than the present; her hopes are of a really old bird who can no longer fly or even if it could fly it won't enjoy as much as it once did - and yet this bird looks up to skies and hopes; hopes like her too down-to-earth husband doesn't.
I reread it because I'm thinking of writing a Beckett-ish play next (look for a Waiting for Godot review soon).
I enjoyed it again.Happy Days is a jumpy little play, which says a lot only about the dialogue as the characters don't really move, and actors have to be VERY good to carry this one.
The second act is both stifling and heartwarming.A very short read, a wonderful play to watch, I recommend it to anyone looking for a surreal dip into a monologue about what it means to have Happy Days.
