https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1237300.The_Shock_Doctrine
But I can’t bring myself to say anything remotely funny about this book.Klein compares some psychological experiments (torture by any reasonable definition of the word) carried out in the 1950s in Canada (funded by the CIA off US soil so they could plausibly deny they were researching torture) in which patients were blasted back to virtually a blank slate by sensory depravation and electric shock treatment to US foreign policy in countries such as Chile in the 1970s and Iraq today.If you had forgotten just how evil unconstrained capitalism is – it is time to read this book.
Using shock treatment as a metaphor, Klein analyzes the importance of economic dislocations and disasters to the success of Milton Friedman's free market philosophy. This is an important book, and shows why the apparent stupidities of the Bush administration in Iraq and Katrina are actually deliberate measures designed to daze and demoralize people into accepting a radical free-market agenda.

Klein’s story is an epic and sprawling Indictment, providing exhaustive analysis and criticism of the disastrous economic policies pursued in Latin America, Poland, China, South Africa, Iraq, New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, and in Asia after the tsunami.The Shock Doctrine is the story of Milton Friedman and his “Chicago School” of economic policies: Led by the US and its incestuous, inbred offspring (the IMF, the World Bank, and the WTO), Friedman touted an economic policy that came to be termed The Washington Consensus.
What Klein does a very good job of illuminating throughout her book is that what these neocons refer to as economic freedom does not equate to nor provide for human rights and civil liberties.
The CIA took note and launched a program of its own.She posits a parallel between treatments that serve to erase personality with the economic and political shocks that struggling nations are forced to endure, shocks that are part and parcel of the move from a developmentalist economy, one that seeks local control and self-sufficiency, to a globalist economy, one in which foreign investment in and ownership of local enterprise is encouraged.
While I found that at times Klein extended her discourse beyond the reach of her material, her analysis of the subject matter is compelling, her linkage of different forms of shock (personal, political, economic) illuminating, and the applicability of her work to the current economic disruptions frightening.
I only got about  into this. I don't like the shifty way Klein argues her points. I felt like I was being propagandized rather than educated.Much of her main “shock doctrine” argument seems to be just sort of a tightly-woven set of linguistic parallels that are meant to suggest causation. Something like: Hitler had the autobahn built. The autobahn allowed drivers to finally race where they wanted to go. Hitler crafted what he thought of as the final solution to a race problem. So you see, highwa
Ergo, these sorts of economists are like torturers trying to mess with our minds.And she uses the term “free market” — the bête noir of her book — to cover just about any economic circumstance she doesn’t like, whether there’s anything free about it or not.On the one hand, the free market villains swoop in after disasters to inflict their “three trademark demands — privatization, government deregulation, and deep cuts in social spending” and on the other hand, this more often than not gets illustrated with examples like the U.S. paying huge sums of money to such corporations as those who provide various contracting services in Iraq.
Some of the most infamous human rights violations of the past thirty­ five years, which have tended to be viewed as sadistic acts carried out by anti-democratic regimes, were in fact either committed with the deliberate intent of terrorizing the public or actively harnessed to prepare the ground for the introduction of radical free-market reforms.Žižek's take: The imposition of a full market economy is thus rendered much easier if the way to it is paved by some kind of trauma (natural, military, economic) which, as it were, forces people into shaking off their "old habits;' turning them into an ideological tabula rasa, survivors of their own symbolic death, ready to accept the new order now that all obstacles have been swept away.
The thesis, simply put, is that the economic theory championed by Milton Friedman and his Chicago School, first play-tested in the third world in the 1970s, has increasingly come home to roost in the West and Bush's America.
Rather, while the Marshall Plan was rooted in Keynesian economics (we rebuilt Europe's governments and public infrastructure), reconstruction in Iraq has been an "anti-Marshall plan," dismantling the Iraqi state and contracting all its functions to US corporations.The REAL problem of this book is how to present arguments like these to anyone who doesn't already concsider themselves anti-globalization liberals.
واحد من أهم الكتب التي قرأتها وسأقرؤها في حياتي! كتاب ضخم وصعب أيضاً كون هذه المرة الأولى التي أسبر فيها غور الاقتصاد السياسي.تشرح الكاتبة نظام عقيدة الصدمة المرتبط بحدوث الكوارث -بكافة أشكالها-، فظائع النظام الرأسمالي، تحرير الأسواق، الخصخصة، مدرسة شيكاغو وميلتون فريدمان.. وقد أخذتنا في جولة في العديد من الدول التي تعرّضت للصدمة؛ تشيلي، الأرجنتين، البرازيل، بوليفيا، روسيا، جنوب إفريقيا، الصين، بولندا، العراق وانتهاءً بالولايات المتحدة نفسها! الكتاب مليء بالمعلومات التاريخية والاقتصادية وحالات
كتاب ضخم وصعب أيضاً كون هذه المرة الأولى التي أسبر فيها غور الاقتصاد السياسي.تشرح الكاتبة نظام عقيدة الصدمة المرتبط بحدوث الكوارث -بكافة أشكالها-، فظائع النظام الرأسمالي، تحرير الأسواق، الخصخصة، مدرسة شيكاغو وميلتون فريدمان..
وقد أخذتنا في جولة في العديد من الدول التي تعرّضت للصدمة؛ تشيلي، الأرجنتين، البرازيل، بوليفيا، روسيا، جنوب إفريقيا، الصين، بولندا، العراق وانتهاءً بالولايات المتحدة نفسها!
الكتاب مليء بالمعلومات التاريخية والاقتصادية وحالات وشهادات متنوّعة حول العلاج بالصدمة..
بالرغم من صعوبة وثقل الكتاب لكنني استمتعت به، ودُهشت لما يحصل في عالمنا..
قد فتح هذا الكتاب عينيّ على حقائق وأمور لم أكن أدري عنها شيئاً أو حتى لا أفمهما..
شكراً نعومي كلاين، لكم نحن بحاجة لأمثالك*لا تعتبر هذه مراجعة
Klein captures this reality in The Shock Doctrine.Shock therapy was once thought to clear the brain of the learned bad behaviors leaving a fresh slate to work with or a “cure.” Shock therapy was also tested to extract information government agencies wanted.
With the US unwilling to make the drastic “shock” decisions with the economy his colleagues went to work in Chile trying to fight nationalization of key industries.
Drastic privatization and allowing foreign ownership destroyed the economy of these countries.
Shock and Awe was not only the invasion plan for Iraq, but also its economy.
"الخوف والفوضى هما المحفزان لكلّ قفزة جديدة إلى الأمام" العظيمات هنّ العظيماتوثائقي عقيدة الصدمةhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YRDDQ... تبدأ الكاتبة بمشهد من إعصار كاترينا في الولايات المتحدة تصف فيه حال المنكوبين وقتها. .لتشرح بعد ذلك استغلال ميلتون فريدمان -الأقتصادي الحائز على نوبل ، مؤسس مدرسة شيكاغو- للحادثة في تغيير النظام التعليمي في نيو أورلينز من مدارس حكومية لمدارس خاصة ممولة بقسائم نقدية.وهنا تتجلى رأسمالية الكوارث = استغلال الكوارث لتمرير سياسات السوق الحرثورة مدرسة شيكاجو . . ====
.بعد ذلك اتبع سياسات اقتصادية عُرفت بـ "ثورة مدرسة شيكاغو" واللي بتعتبر التحوّل الرأسمالي الأكثر جذرية في تاريخ العالم.نتيجة للتضخم اللي حصل بعد الإنقلاب طبق أوغستو رؤية (ميلتون فريدمان) فخفض الضرائب وخصخص القطاعات الخدمية في البلد وفتح السوق للتجارة الحرّة وخفض الانفاق الحكومي على القطاعات الاجتماعية والناس صحت الصبح لقت المدارس الحكومية بقت خاصة!ميلتون فريدمان رؤيته في استغلال الكوارث وهي (العلاج بالصدمة) بعد أي كارثة كبيرة تستغل الفرصة لتمرير رؤيتها (اللبيرالية الحديثة) وتطبيق أفكارها الخاصة.فالتجار بيحتفظوا باللبن والبضائع لمواجهة الكوارث إنما مدرسة شيكاغو بتحتفظ بأفكار السوق الحر.==================
Democracy kept tending towards "mixed-economies" (state or community controlled electricity, oil, water, schools, etc., as well as worker-protections and land re-distribution and more numerous small-businesses, rather than corporate conglomerates).
Some of the shocks were manufactured (violent coups, international currency manipulation), some were hijacked revolutions (South Africa, Russia, Poland), and some were natural disasters (the Tsunami a few years back, New Orleans), but with always the same result: foreign companies buy up everything in sight, plunging already impoverished and disoriented people into further pain and poverty.?
The evidence she presents is, at best, circumstantial and correlational, and it attempts to graft a veneer of evil onto the otherwise inflectionless economic policies conceived and implemented by the Chicago School under the formulative tutelage of Milton Friedman and his free market disciples.It's unfortunate, because the case she presents—one drawing evidence from real world implementations across South America, Southeast Asia, Africa and Eastern Europe—is sufficiently strong without such a gimmick, making illuminative associations between the onset of financial crisis within Second or Third World polities and the usage of that crisis, primarily by the IMF and World Bank, the twin arms of the market-imposing Washington Consensus, to apply the shock of harsh economic re-orderings.
I can't decide whether I feel that her paranoia got out of control, or whether it is indeed a fair representation of US foreign policy over the last 30-40 years.
Klein argues that the standard tactic the right has used is to wait for a crisis of some kind, and then use it as an excuse to rush through policies which they've prepared for this eventuality.
I can see that some of the government's policies can be defended as as a rational response to Britain's enormous debt.
When the free market economists who Klein refers to (like Friedman and Hayek) talk about capitalism they are referring to an economic system free of government intervention.
It should be obvious to any reader that this sort of alliance between business and government has little to do with free markets, private property rights, or "capitalism" as defined by Chicago or Austrian school economists.By the end of the book she really goes bonkers.
Hotel companies see an opportunity decide to take possession of the coastal property, which has been conveniently cleared of all those pesky villages.
I'd attempted reading this in the heady afterglow of the election this past November but I was not in the mood to be depressed so soon and replaced it on my shelf.Two months into Obama's presidency, as the economy crumbles into so many pieces which are then greedily consumed by the jackals that make up the banking industry, Klein's definitive history of Friedman economics and their entwined history with brutality, terror and disparity seems especially apt.
Sound familiar?Next comes the economic shock, during which the social safety nets so despised by free-market zealots are taken away and former nationally-owned industries (oil, mineral, postal services, arms contracts, education, healthcare, pretty much everything) are "privatized," or sold at cut-rate prices to foreign investors who, through some never-explained sleight of hand will then lead the country into its bright capitalist utopia.
كتاب رائع ترجمة سهلة وبديعة أفكار واضحة وبسيطة عمل رائع فى مجملهيتحدث الكتاب عن سيناريو متكرر فى أعق
I would seriously like to see every human on this planet read this book. I can’t think of any other book I would more highly recommend today.The whole text was rich in the exposing of history and deep analysis. I strongly encourage anyone reading it to stick through to the end. The bulk of the book covers quite terrible things in the world, but the last chapter actually made me very hopeful and inspired.Utterly brilliant!
It's kind of feels like I'm listening to Sean Hannity or Ann Coulter, but instead it's a liberal who hates free markets and Republicans.
Her entire argument seems to be "free markets equal evil" but she neglects any type of logical connection between the two.Example: she jumps all over charter schools, but never really says whats wrong with them or that they aren't working.
Just says "it's bad for unions and teachers who worked in public schools before hate it" (though she doesn't actually site any teachers).
2.) privatization of everything - congratulations, your job has been outsourced!3.) tax cuts and elimination of social services - sorry old and poor people, you are on your own!The most evil thing about this is that while America preaches freedom and democracy, the only way such policies can be implemented is through a repressive, dictatorial government.
While the people of these countries suffered from repression, poverty, torture, and death, the political leaders declared such economic policies as successful.
It made my blood boil to read about the way the Russian people were duped into such harsh economic policies.
Another showed that blog posts on subjects such as political reform and freedom of expression were increasingly frequent, even when controlling for the rise in bloggers.And "Britain leads in war on poverty, according to US academic" positively contradicts her other thesis that countries like Britain with its more Anglo-Saxon model of capitalism do worse than European socialist counterparts: Britain's story on child poverty is also better than many in Europe.
'The Shock Doctrine' describes how rich men rape poor countries while supposedly saving it.
When a country is faced with a sudden disaster where many people are suddenly out of work and governments are stunned by the suffering and fear and destruction, banks and corporations move in and rape the country while promising to fix the problems with cash (borrowed at high interest) while imposing strict limitations on social security, fuel supports or food subsidies to the poor.
While people are shocked and fearful because of disasters, they meekly allow the foreign corporations to 'save' them by stealing their assets and starving them.
I would say that you might need to be in the right frame of mind for it - if you whole-heartedly disagree with the importance of government regulations and services, with nationalised education, health care and industry, if you think that free-market economics is inherently "good" for the middle class and poor people, that America is doing a "good" thing in Iraq, if Friedman is your idol and you have stocks in Halliburton or Lockheed Martin or CH2M Hill, you are not going to like this book.

Dear Naomi Klein, I recently finished reading your latest book, The Shock Doctrine. Your detailed account of the connections between neoliberal economic policy and the use of violent repression, the decline of welfare states, and the rise of corporatized war and disaster capitalism is compelling. You thread together the recent histories of military brutality in the Southern Cone of South America, union busting in Margaret Thatcher’s England, and the Tiananmen Square massacre in China. Through th
On the contrary, you show that they were deliberate acts of “shock therapy” used by governments to numb and eliminate those opposed to the implementation of neoliberal policies such as the privatization of public services, the elimination of spending on social programs, and the deregulation of industry wage, safety and environmental standards.You demonstrate the “constricted freedom” of post cold-war governments in Poland, Russia, and South Africa, who, in spite of initial aspirations to build social democratic welfare states, ended up implementing neoliberal economic reforms with disastrous consequences for the majority of their people.
My only minor complaint is that I was surprised she didn't discuss her shock theory in the context of the 1970s oil crisis--as far as global economic crises go, you'd think that one would deserve at least a mention, and I was left wondering why it was left out of her otherwise very thorough analysis.Basically, this book expanded my understanding of both history and the contemporary world, and I think about it every day, especially when I'm reading the news.
I'm going to begin this review with the most important part: Read this book.
I've wanted to read this book for quite a while, being that I like to think I'm not a complete political dumbass.
Klein begins the book by talking about Dr. Ewen Cameron, and his techniques in the 50's for trying to create a blank slate of the mind in order to rebuild a new and better personality in place of a "broken" one.
Klein called it "Extreme Capitalism", it's essentially a free market economy in which all goods and services are privatized and unregulated.
نظرية "الصدم" التي تفسر سلوك المنظمات المالية الدولية مثل البنك الدولي ومنظمة التجارة العالمية تجاه أبرز الأحداث والكوارث الطبيعية بحيث تستغل الكارثة لاقتحام اسواق جديدة للشركات متعددة الجنسيات.الكتاب يعتمد على (دراسات الحالة) بحيث افردت لكل حالة عشرات الصفحات من دول امريكا اللاتينية الارجنتين والتشيلي والبرازيل وكوبا إلى روسيا والصين وجنوب شرق آسيا إلى دول شرق أوروبا مثل بولندا إلى جنوب افريقيا ، وفي فترة لا تخرج عن الاربع العقود الماضية .
الجهد التحليلي مذهل وحتى أسلوب الكاتبة (او لنرجع الفضل للمترجم) كان سلسا وجميلا.الفصل الأخير فصل رائع ومطمئن للغاية .
وربما أفضل حالات الدراسة توثيقا هي حالة دول امريكا اللاتينية وحالة العراق.
بسهولة أقدر أعتبر ده واحد من أهم الكتب اللي قريتها في حياتي، قريته إلكتروني وهشتري النسخة الورقية في أقرب فرصة إن شاء الله
Klein presents to us a world that is so paralyzed and bamboozled by entropy and bureaucracy that the only way to catalyze meaningful change is to either take advantage of or foment massive disasters--whether in terms of disaster response, warfare, or regime change.
She starts with Allende's Chile, as all books of this ilk do, and moves on to show how blights as diverse as Putin, apartheid Israel, post-Katrina New Orleans, and post-Bush II Baghdad are interlinked, less outliers than harbingers of our coming norms.
Klein at least makes a case for how we might.
