https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/263156.Married_Love
Yes, it's a little outdated, but you can still see why it caused such a stir among the prim British set. I giggled at some passages and found myself agreeing with the author on several points. I would not recommend it today, given it's emphasis on gender roles, but if you're interested in the history of sex education, this is an interesting read.
Marie Stopes was a feminist who understood that marriage is so important, and the reason why husbands and wives can be unhappy is often due to sexual ignorance on the man's part to understand how to satisfy his wife.
It is a very classy, appropriate book about the importance of communication with your spouse to improve your entire marriage.
She pointed out that if the man doesn't listen to his wife and her sexual needs, then she becomes withdrawn and unhappy.
It was truly a delightful read, and my hat goes off to Stopes for having the courage to write a book like this in 1918.
Remarkably open and up-to-date, written in very English upperclass but also scientific style. Shocking to read of totally sex-ignorant women who killed themselves, traumatized on their wedding night. Hilarious fact: all the tagged-on "editor's notes" were actually very outdated - "using condoms is bad for women since they need to absorb the semen in their system to be healthy"; "artificial insemination is a fad and will never catch on".An educative read, about sex, marriage and how people thought in upperclass England 100 years ago.
Writer Kate Figes has chosen to discuss Marie Stope's,  Married Love  on FiveBooks as one of the top five on her subject - Sex and Marriage, saying that:"Its about women's need to be seduced not just the first time but every time. She said 70 to 80 per cent of married women were deprived of a full orgasm by their husband's speed."The full interview is available here: http://five-books.com/interviews/kate-figes
Marie Stopes was a very active British eugenicist in early 20th Century Britain.
She was so devoted to her cause that she disowned her son when he married a women with eyeglasses, due to a genetic condition.
This is her first published work outside of her primary field of paleobotany.
It's an amusing account of how married couples should behave with each other sexually and one of the first publications dealing with birth control for this period.
However, this is a modernist point of view imposed on a time where Married Love was groundbreaking.
Marie Stopes, ScD, PhD broke ground with her 1918 revolutionary and soon banned book dedicated to husbands who want to do the job right.
This marriage manual reflects anecdotal research and represents the limited the knowledge of the time from a woman's perspective.
It was a courageous act by an intelligent and inquiring woman.But, don't try this at home.Interesting and helpful for researching for my book, "The Secret Life of Anna Blanc," an homage to old Los Angeles inspired by Alice Stebin Wells, an LAPD police matron, who in 1910, became the first woman in the Western world to be granted police powers.
It is always difficult to decide how to rate something that is clearly the product of a different time period. Four stars would be too generous were I using it to say "I found the information in this book to be useful to my every day life" in the way the author clearly intended for it to be. However, I would say it accurately reflects my interest in the book as a reflection of the ideas (both common place and controversial) of the time in which it was written.
An interesting insight into the mind if 1900s people. Every thought is cloyingly cloaked in flowery prose. None of the thoughts are particularly relevant to people of 2014. Read it as an exercise to understand how sexuality was viewed back then.
Taken all together, this book suggests that women’s satisfaction should be the goal of marriage and of sexual activity.She writes in a lyrical style that easily soars when she describes our potential for happiness:“The burning magnificence of an overpowering lifelong love is not given to many...” And she persuades by appealing to an expanded perspective:“To those who protest that we have no right to interfere with the course of nature, one must point out that the whole of civilization, everything which separates man from animals, is an interference with what such people commonly call nature.”
Also, Stopes attempts to normalise her particular view of sexuality, frequently saying that she speaks only of 'normal, healthy individuals', thus implying that anyone who does not experience desire and fulfilment in the same way is not normal or healthy.
In that sense, the book is still very much a product of its time, and cannot be said to provide any enlightenment to a modern reader.
However, an informative insight into the early days of Western sexual liberation, which provided a basis for much good work since.
Was Marie Stopes really a virgin when she wrote this, as claimed?
I doubt it.
It is very knowing.
It recognizes that this is often not a romantic fairy tale, rather it can be a bit of an ordeal of awkwardness and uncertainty.
Stopes' book must have been a life-saver for thousands of young women and men.
Although it is frank and can leave no reader in any doubt about what actually happens in the mating bed, it is none the less a book of its time (circa 1918).
Stopes was clearly a true romantic at heart.
maybe its a bit late to start reading this - almost one hundred years after publication and at age 52... but I came across it on a free book app for iphone and thought it might be interesting to see what Marie Stopes had to say on the subject .... well I must admit I skipped through the social and baby sections because I dont have one, but this must have been an eye opener for some people in its day. Well done Marie Stopes.
It was sososososo interesting to read this book, written in 1919, about married sex, birth control and infertility ("can very often be the man's fault, especially if he works in the city.") I'm sure at the time it was groundbreaking, as well as blush-inducing.
Very interesting read. Slightly pedantic, not always easy to follow for a non-native speaker, plus almost a century old and thus filled with century old ideas mingled with extremely progressive ideas from Stopes. Read as research for project.
Unfortunately, I didn't read this edition so missed the introduction. Would love to read that as well -- on its own, Married Love is a thoughtful discussion of turn-of-the-century love and marriage, with a great deal of insight buried in its now antiquated views/lanuage.
An important and eye opening historical document, even if some of Stopes' views are now rather out of date. The most shocking parts were her quoting the views of contemporary (male) medical professionals, saying things such as women don't need to ever enjoy "marital relations"... ugh!
This book focuses on Stopes' view of relationships, eugenics, and birth control. The language is very hard to follow. I gave up on this one.
Found via Bonk. Apparently Ms Stopes was a virgin when she wrote this. Her 1911 marriage was annulled, unconsummated, three years later. Oh, I'm so reading this.
Fascinating study in historical literature on marriage and relationships.
