https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29513.The_Lost_Continent_of_Mu
On the one hand, it's a terrible book with terrible motives and terrible conclusions.
On the other hand, as conspiracy/alt-history books go, it's pretty top-notch.I think what really sells it is Churchward's utter confidence that what he's saying is correct and he's got hidden truths that only he has managed to piece together.
The hilarity of reading his conclusions while knowing discoveries since or things he was ignoring at the time makes it a bit of a trip.He does hit on some genuine mysteries along the way as well as coming up with dozens of mysteries that are almost certainly fabrications of his own imagination or his piecing together flawed or inaccurate information.
I think Churchward's conclusions, based on evidence of various nuttiness, reveal more about Churchward himself and his context than about any past civilization."One of the most startling discoveries is that the natives of the Polynesian groups of South Sea Islands are a white race.
37) sailed east to settle Scandinavia, somehow passing through the North American continent without stopping.) The later books in the series might be of entertainment as he speculates on culture, technology, history, or spirituality, but this is entirely dreary.
An idea as inherently amusing as "lost continent, ancient civilization" should not be so saddled with analysis and pedantry.
James Churchward'ın bu kitabı 1926 tarihinde yayınlandığında yazarın daha çok mistik bir gelecek hayal ettiğini söyleyebiliriz.
Yine de bu tarz bir kitabı yazarken daha objektif olunması gerektiğini düşünüyorum.
Kitabın içerisindeki bilgilerin bir kısmında bazı mantık hataları olduğunu düşünüyorum.
Çünkü yazarın kitabın içerisinde yaptığı genellikle tahminlere dayalı açıklamalardı.Lisede Turgut Gürsan'ın Dünya'nın Gizli Tarihi kitabını okumuştum ve onun içerisinde de James Churchward'ın işlediği Mısırlıların uyguladığı kabul töreni gibi bir durumdan bahsediliyordu.
Dünya'nın Gizli Tarihi kitabında anlatılan kabul törenini açıklamasını (o kitapta yanlış hatırlamıyorsam Mason'lar uyguluyordu bu töreni) oldukça yüzeysel bulmuştum ancak bu kitabın içerisinde detaylıydı ve yazar törenin sembolik anlamını ifade etmede başarılıydı.
The author has exclusive, secret and completely unverifiable access to transmissions/secret documents/ancient relics that reveal the truth that is hidden to all of us boring mundanes with our empiricism and facts.Churchward is notable primarily for his hatred of Darwinian evolutionary theory (humans could not have evolved naturally, they were obviously CREATED on Mu to conquer the world!!!1!!) and the inclusion of his idle doodles which he claims are transcriptions from ancient stone tablets (which he failed to photograph) written in a dead language that only he and four nameless priests in India can read.People like Churchward with his imaginary lost continent of Mu or that dipstick on the history channel with his ancient aliens irritate me to no end.
As if the vast, amazing epic of human history and development (or of life in general!) is just not epic enough for them, they insist that there must be something even bigger!
Atlantis ve Mu literatürünün en öncelikli kaynakları hiç kuşkusuz James Churchward'dur; öyle ki Atatürk bile onun çalışmalarını getirtmiş, çevirtmiş ve notlar alarak okumuştur.
Özellikle de konspirasyon alanında -ki Atatürk'ün de kitap üzerindeki notlarda sürekli sorular, sorgulamalar olduğu görülür.Churchward'un Tibet'te kendisine sunulan tabletlerdeki sembolleri incelemesi, arkeoloji ve tarih adına özel bir iş.
Ayrıca bugün gittikçe daha da moda haline gelen batık kıtalara gereğinden fazla ruhani anlam yükleme olayına girmemesi de eseri okumaya değer hale getiriyor.Konuyla ilgili Edger Cayce'ın psişik okumaları, Francis Bacon'ın alegorik metni "Yeni Atlantis"i, Rene de Guenion'ın eserleri de önerilir.


If James Churchward was alive today he'd be working for the History channel.
This is his theory for a lost continent in the pacific and how all the ancient peoples of the world are linked to this lost country.One of his great excuses is that the symbolic name for Mu is represented by 3 of something...
not 3 of something in particular just 3 of anything.
So he goes around the world looking at ancient drawings and writing and whenever he sees 3 of something says 'see they were talking about Mu arn't i a genius!'.Its like Ancient Aliens but too boring to laugh at.
Overall I think he was accurate in that there was an ancient civilization. However, I think more research needs to be done in order to assert some of his claims. Like for example, his explanation of why the earth changed so rapidly into a mountainous region in South America doesn't make a lot of sense to me. But I think in a lot of everything else, he is pretty much right and is a very compelling argument.
I am normally fascinated by anything involving Atlantis / Mu / pre-history (whether it's well-researched and scholarly, or way out there, and not-the-least-bit-believable), but I found this book incredibly boring. Sorry. I was more than 100 pages into it, and realized I'm not remembering anything I read, and I was not engaged at all. I hate to give up on books, but just couldn't do it with this one.
This was my second reading of the book, probably 50 years apart. As this was originally written in the 1930's you have to take some of his theories with a grain of salt. However, I think that the whole Alaskan Land Bridge that 'science' tries to shove down our throats is pure fantasy. The original Americans, Central, South, and North, came here many, many years ago - from the west and by sea.
very hard to read. No mentions of ice cream vans or being Justified.
Even if you don’t believe in this theory, as I am inclined to, this makes for a fascinating book.
It is clear that Churchward has done numerous years of research, even if his theory never quite seems able to hold water.
The book spends most of its time examining how other ancient civilizations prove Mu’s existence.
Some of his reasoning makes sense (like the remnants of South Pacific ancient civilizations) while some of his ideas seem a bit of a reach (like the fact that most ancient civilizations used imagery of the sun, which proved that they were connected to Mu…I mean, really?)Full review on my blog: https://madamewriterblog.com/2018/09/...
Even though much of Churchward's work would be considered New Age mysticism by today's standards, his thinking on the origins and ancientness of civilization was revolutionary for its times.
Keep in mind that when he was writing this, the antiquity of the human species itself, let alone that of civilization, was considered by many to be much less than what is commonly accepted today.
Even now, some of his ideas, especially that civilization predates the ancient Near East, are still not fully accepted, despite their having been supported by recent archaeological finds.
An interesting topic: the author asserts the existence of an ancient, advanced civilization, which sank into the Pacific, leaving small traces of its existence, such as Easter Island.Having translated ancient tablets, there are fascinating comparisons between different religions and myths.Then there are some hilarious attempts at explaining the geological background to the cataclysmic disappearance of Mu.Despite the fundamental scientific flaws, I was left with some lingering questions: can there be so many coincidences in myths and designs of ancient temples?
L'auteur tente de rendre crédible par divers artefacts la possibilité que le genre humain a pris naissance sur la terre de Mu, un grand continent au milieu de l'océan Pacifique. Suite à une destruction naturelle de ce continent des survivants ont trouvé refuge à divers endroits sur la planète et ont continué de rendre hommage à la mère patrie par divers monuments et inscriptions qui rappellent la grandeur et la splendeur de Mu.
I am not sure what to say about this book. Some of his claims are quite intriguing however I am not in position to judge the connection between Ancent Egypt and Maya writings. However I am quite suspectful about the tablets that he says he found in India. His claims about the shift of continenets and poles are quite correct with today's findings.I did not like his language too much and finding a deity (god) in everything he read in those tablets.
Intriguing at times but not only controversial, extremely contentious and basically unreliable. Too many unsupported assertions and farfetched assumptions. A very opinionated author who is very keen on establishing his authority, if nothing else. The notion of a pre-Atlantean civilisation is intriguing, but this does not help the case much, in my opinion.
You would think in a post-Joseph Smith world the ole "secret tablets I can't show you that I also keep making new interpretations from" trick wouldn't work, but by golly old timey racist hucksterism finds a way!
This is really important source book.. But there must be more clues to research...Best of best by the way.
Good read. Its about the existence of a lost continent off the Pacific Rim called "Mu". Book was written in the early 1900's, and all the data was collected around that time.
real good facts put together but he was not that great aat presenting themhad to constantly reread sections to grasp the wholeness of the subject.
Kitaptaki tezlere inanmasanız bile Churchwardın inancı uğruna ömrünü harcamasına hayran kaldım.
Interesting theory....his brother is Albert Churchward, both freemasons and controversial authors!
Kayıp Kıta Mu, The Lost Continent of Mu, James Churchward, 1931. 366 sayfa.
INTERESTING read. I haven't finished it yet...and sometimes I pick it up for a while and put it down for a few days...but I ALWAYS go back to it for more.
Will read more on Mu when I have the time.
