https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21337.Prodigal_Son
Out of the last of the twilight came Deucalion with a suitcase, in clothes too heavy for the sultry night.Koontz does a pretty good job of extrapolating the Frankenstein mythos.
What if Mary Shelley’s novel was an account of actual events?
There are some surprises, notably concerning the nature of the characters and how Koontz set his story up.
Between the Mad Scientist, the New Race, the Serial Killer and Deucalion there is bound to be a fair amount of mayhem.
This is good, if you’re inclined towards Speculative Horror fiction.I bow to no one.Deucalion is, of course, an enigma.
I really love and enjoy Dean Koontz Frankenstein graphic novel, that I wanted to give the novel version a chance.
Because I love every character in this book except for Victor he is just pure evil and is a menace to society.
But now in my mid 30's I absolutely love this kind of writing style.
I would love too read more raw and gritty writing style in books more often.
But all and all I absolutely loved and enjoyed Prodigal Son, I can't wait to continue on reading City of Night next!
I occasionally get the urge to read a Koontz novel.
I keep hoping his current novels will return to his earlier high standards.
However his later books, Relentless being a prime example, simply do not work well and hints of a writer who may now be writing to a formula and for the money.
In fact, this may be the worst Koontz novel I've ever read.
Even at his worse, Koontz is a quality writer of horror and suspense but this doesn't even read like his style, leading me to the conclusion that collaborator Kevin J.
I have heard many times from fans of Dean Koontz that they were upset because Koontz used "no-name" writers to co-author his retelling of Mary Shelly's classic story, FRANKENSTEIN.
Let me put some of this nay-saying to rest.
Kevin Anderson is not a no-name author.
He has written numerous novels for the Star Wars universe (the bounty hunter trilogy is a lot of fun), and he has also written for X-Files.
I'd say that's two pretty solid foundations to stand upon.
As for the story itself, I really enjoyed it.
The New Orleans setting is perfect, giving a creepy quality to an already creepy story.
So even though I like "much of" Dean Koontz's writing I put off reading this one for some time.Bottom line on it is that it's pretty good.The book is readable.
Koontz can do good serviceable writing, sometimes his prose is almost inspired.
Here it's largely the former.
Building on the general idea from the Shelly book he expands the story.
You see Victor Frankenstein is far more evil than he appeared in that book, and he's still alive, still "out there" trying to replace God.So, good read.
I found myself largely interested.
I was surprised by how much I liked this read. It was a believable good story especially for around the Halloween season.
Having never read a Dean Koontz novel and intrigued by the C.S. Lewis quote at the beginning of this book (I'm a huge Lewis fan), I picked this up, thinking that maybe this would be a good first exposure to Koontz's writing.It wasn't.
We have a fabulous serial killer who has also discovered the secret to immortality (through daily vitamins, shampooing and exercise!) and serves no purpose in the story whatsoever except as a horror gimmick and a posthumous deus ex machina.
Then we have the protagonist, an anime-perfect heroine with bigger balls than any of the men in the book and no personality whatsoever.
I was obsessed with reading more and more of this book until I was all the way through.
One of my favorite features was the short chapters with a revolving point of view between different characters; making it hard to put down as you wanted to know each character's thoughts on each change of events.
Though so.e subjects were glossed over ; possibly being left for another volume, the main theme was resolved by the ending- thus not leaving a cliff hanger just because the story would continue in another book.I'm excited to read book two but I'll wait until I have a day off so I can give the focus I would like.
Wow, this was a fun and a surprisingly interesting continuation of the Frankenstein story that ties directly into the original. Deucalion, the original monster, has been living in a Tibetan monastery where he has found a sense of peace. Of course, he eventually learns that his creator is still alive under the name of Doctor Helios and travels to New Orleans in preparation for the eventual confrontation and discovers that he is not alone and that Doctor Helios has been very, very busy.
When I picked up this book at my mom's house and read the back cover, I literally said out loud, "Oh no he DIH-uhnt!" Thank you, Dean Koontz, for making me channel Ricki Lake reruns.Koontz has apparently run out of ideas for trite, one-dimension characters, and he's abandoned all pretense at being original. Instead of taking a break from publishing utter crap, he copes with this by cannibalizing fucking FRANKENSTEIN.
He Lives!Both Frankenstein and his monster have achieved a level of immortality and find themselves living their 200th year in New Orleans.
Nope, not joking.But I like the way Koontz spins this one: above-ground burial crypts = easy access to bodies for Dr. Frankenstein's creepy endeavors.
Well, that would explain a lot, huh?But instead of a raging, homicidal green giant, Frankenstein's first creation (going by the name Deucalion) is now a peaceful monk who returns from the mountains of Tibet to confront the true monster.I read this as part of my October Spooky Reads challenge, and although I didn't find it at all scary, it was definitely thrilling and worth continuing with the series.
I'm one of the few people in the world that was never really turned on by the Frankenstein story.
I had the same expectations for Koontz's new series based on the legendary story, but at the suggestion of my mom, I decided to give it a try.
In fact, the book lends itself to several different twists and turns that could go anywhere in the next part of his series (which I have yet to read).
It kept me hooked through the whole thing and makes me excited for more in the series even though I haven't yet even picked up Book 2.
When one of the contestants would give a particularly good, unique performance of a “classic”, Randy Jackson would say, “You made it your own, dawg!” Well, Dean Koontz certainly has made Frankenstein his own.There is a certain wow factor that an author like Dean Koontz brings to his stories.
These two are darker characters with secrets that only time can fully reveal.Balancing everything are the comic elements; Koontz has chapters dedicated to banter between O’Connor and Maddison over who should drive the car, and paragraphs about Cheez-Its. These are the factors that make a book more enjoyable.I have found a new series that I want to continue and a classic that I feel I need to read.
He is famous for his novels which can be perfectly described and categorized as suspense thrillers with elements of classic horror, science fiction and satire.Frankenstein (Book One: Prodigal Son) is one of Dean Koontz's best known novels.
It is actually a modern version of Mary Shelley's highly-acclaimed novel Frankenstein or The Modern Prometheus in 1818.
Although Dean Koontz didn't change the horror/goth-ish like theme of Shelley's version, he, however, contemporized Victor Frankenstein's image and "WORKS".
Imagine the change from ugly stitches into unnoticeable beautiful sew patches and Dean Koontz named them as the "New Race".Dean Koontz made me like Science-Fiction and Horror novels.
Dean Koontz had an introduction at the beginning of this book where he talked about the TV deal and how the producers didn't follow his vision of the story.
Here's where I sound really crude: I don't blame the production company for wanting to change the story or characters a bit.
It is definitely a neat modern idea on an old story, but it just didn't hold up to the original idea.
I'm not entirely sure this even deserves three stars, but out of respect for Koontz, I'll leave it at that.
3.0 to 3.5 stars. This was a really fun, fast paced read. I thought the main character of Deucalion was well done and gave you a character you could really cheer for in the story. The human characters were pretty two dimensional, except for Victor Frankenstein who was a good villian. This minor gripe aside, the story is worth a read.
Once again Dean Koontz has amazed me with his horrific and vibrant writing, in this case coupled with the talents of Kevin J. Anderson, giving a fantastic retelling of the horror classic Frankenstein. This book is definitely worth reading if you're a horror or thriller fan.
Fast moving and enjoyable with Koontz's wonderful paranoia throughout. Its characters interesting and developed with a complex concept and smooth plotting. Its only significant weakness, its repetitiveness, seeming like filler or padding, but nothing that lagged the story too much. I'm in for number two.
`The Prodigal Son`is Dean Koontz`s modern tale of the well known classic; Frankenstein.
`The Prodigal Son`is a modern tale of Frankenstein set in modern day New Orleans in the USA.
The story starts off in modern day New Orleans where Victor Helios (formally Victor Frankenstein) is producing a `New Race`of people, that will terminate the so-called Òld Race`& all of the chaos that comes with it, thereby creating a pefect world where there is no god & science is all that matters.
Once again Dean Koontz writes wonderfully in this book.
Dean Koontz's Frankenstein series builds upon the classic book by Mary Shelley, using both Frankenstein and his monster as near immortals who each have lived in plain view of the public yet are hidden by the fictitious account of their evolution in the original book.
PRODIGAL SON is a quick read (something that I've found during all three reads) and really establishes this new take on Frankenstein quite well.
Don't expect the same story as Mary Shelley, this series is new and follows a rather different path.
Once I started reading, I wondered how an author's mind could wrap around a story and tell it like Dean Koontz did with his first installment of his trilogy, "Frankenstein." Once finished, you HAD to know what happened next!
Let me tell you the about the hold this book held over me.
I make it back home around 11:30pm, driving much slower I might add, stayed up till dawn reading, caught a cat nap refueling the brain cells because I finished the novel before 9am the following morning.
Koontz takes the original Frankenstein story and creates something wonderful.
Taking the idea of the classic story, Koontz places Frankenstein and his monster in the modern world.
Luckily, his monster is not as dead as he had originally thought and this time he has help: although there are more problems in the world than is apparent to anyone (be them good or bad) upon first glance.It’s a must read for anyone who love Koontz or the classic Frankenstein story.
I was interested in reading this book because it featured two of my literary interests in it; Frankenstein and a serial killer.
I kept comparing it to the original Frankenstein book and keep wishing this book referenced it more or had the same level of complexity.
This book was simply a mad scientist creating his own race for his own gratification.
I kind of feel like this book is too much of a clique and possible just a generic mystery formula that has been overdone.
There was nothing about this book that makes me want to continue reading the series.
This books was published in 2005, and, with hindsight being 20/20, it would be easy to nitpick the technology that Koontz gets wrong when it comes to life longevity and over-the-counter supplements, and I could even forgive his telling us that the chief villain stores stolen body parts in real Tupperware in his freezer and not explain any concern for ice crystal damage to organ cells in long-term storage (in Tupperware).
It's like, if you want to know how this story ends, read my next book.
3.5If you can get past the cringy idea of a modern Frankenstein,Then it's pretty alright. Haha the serial killer stuff really got me, and it intrigues me enough to continue with the series.
Now that's how you tell a story.So much fun!!Loved the nod to Mary Shelley.Well written and well narrated.
I tend to stay away from horror movies and books because they seem almost universally uninspired, and Prodigal Son is no exception.I walked into this knowing that it was a reimagining of a literary classic, but even for a take-off on an old, established story, the plot is bland and trite.
Depending on the chapter, it alternately reads like a poor-quality buddy cop drama and a poor-quality slasher flick.The characters are no better.
Alas, the development that we do see is laughably short, and once it occurs, the characters are quickly dropped.Being a fan of Terry Pratchett, I've become accustomed to reading without specifically delineated chapters.
The story is about Victor Frankenstein, who 200 years after he created his monster is still creating his new race in modern day new Orleans.I liked how messed up his people are, so confused about why they are and most it seems, feeling like there is part of them missing.
This ends up causing one of them to rebel and start murdering old race people( ordinary humans)All the different ideas in this book seem to work well.
But everything else I loved, and if they had been a bit less jokey I'd of given the book 5 stars.
This was a fast paced read for me and not many are these days.
Koontz takes the two pivotal characters from Shelly's "Frankenstein" and brings them forward to modern times.
Dr. Frankenstein is still up to his unethical tricks and has managed to prolong his own life through various methods while his first creation named "Deucalion".
He is brought out of his world of tranquility when he learns that Dr. Frankenstein is still creating monsters (though this time via modern methods).
Deucalion, because he knows Dr. F's motives so well, joins forces with the police to help find the killer.
It's humorous and horrifying and a very good read.
I have GR friends who liked this book, and I'm very sorry to them, but I just couldn't finish this novel. I don't have anything against retellings, so that isn't my problem. My problem is that I just didn't like Frankenstein being portrayed as a sexual sadist; how he was mortified by the silliest things his wife did (her flower arrangments!), how he was just an odd duck in general. There are other things I didn't like either, but I just don't know how to word it at the moment. Just not feeling this one.
