https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77276.A_Swiftly_Tilting_Planet
In this book, the only mentions of what she is doing are that she is a) married to Calvin, and b) pregnant.
Thankfully we had TWO white dudes, and they have helpfully color coded eyes, so we can tell who is good and who is bad for the rest of the book.
(Blue is good, guys!) Also, for all the bizarre fantasy native population in the first bit, as soon as the white guys arrive, we move right back to white only characters for the rest of the book.
Good things about the book: The idea of kything is pretty cool.
Though L'Engle's storytelling improves after the dull previous outing of "A Wind in the Door", "Swiftly" fails in other more serious ways.The biggest problem is her somewhat silly reliance on hereditary family names from generation to generation--names that endure for hundreds of years and somehow continue to intersect.Madoc, Madog, Maddux, and Mad Dog; Gwydder, Gedder, and Gwen; Zyllie, Zyllah, Zylle; two Branwens and a Charles and a Chuck round out the cast.
The second generation is interesting but gets a little confusing (like if the families married in the first generation, why are Maddocs still courting Zyllahs?).
This is the third book in the Time Quintet series that started out with Meg, her brother Charles Wallace and their friend Calvin.The third book starts with a massive time jump that almost disoriented me: the events here start 10 years after those of the last volume with Meg being married to Calvin and pregnant with their first child, Calvin being a scientist (and currently away in England), and the family has come together for a Thanksgiving dinner.
- a connection between various people named Madoc, Madog, Maddok, Maddox, Mad Dog, Branwen, Brandon, Bran, Zyll, Zylle, Zillo, Zillah, Zillie, Beezie (B.Z.), Branzillo.
And then it's on p.195 that we get "Certainly the name Zillie must have some connection with Madoc's Zyll, and Ritchie Llawcae's Zylle..." Really?
This similar names thing is something that L'Engle did in The Other Side of the Sun with several people all named Theron.
It's like George Foreman and his five sons named George: just dumb - which is the last thing that readers of L'Engle books want.
Okay this book was weird.Charles is almost grown up because he's freaking 15 years old now.
So it kind of makes up for it - right?Okay that parts not weird, the weird part was that Charles went to his star-watching rock, evil echthroi were trying to catch him, and then he finds a random ass unicorn and flies back in time.
so I just kind of assumed it was Charles the entire time talking to himself.
Yup. It made the book more interesting if I do say so myself.The adventure was okay.
I admit I wasn't crazy about that, seeing as Meg was the soul of the first two books, and I really wanted to see her interact with Calvin more.
The Murrays are sitting around being smart when the President lets Mr. Murray (who is magically here this time, neither away nor kidnapped, what do you know?) that a dictator in a small South American country called Mad Dog Branzillio is threatening nuclear war, and its likely to happen.
Mad Dog could have been a very interesting character to interact with, but he exists and dies offscreen.It makes no sense.
At Tara in this fateful hour,I place all Heaven with its power,And the sun with its brightness,And the snow with its whiteness,And the fire with all the strength it hath,And the lightning with its rapid wrath,And the winds with their swiftness along their path,And the sea with its deepness,And the rocks with their steepness,And the earth with its starkness,All these I place by God's almightly help and graceBetween myself and the powers of darkness!This book was absolutely amazing, and an instant classic in my mind.
So, in Chapter 2 "I place all Heaven with it's power", Charles Wallace receives his help from heaven, a Unicorn.
I hated the fact that everyone had the same flipping name.
Literally everything in this puzzle was handed to Charles Wallace and Meg. It might as well have been any rando off the street doing these Missions because they certainly required no initiative, and explicitly discouraged independent thinking.
I hated that it was apparently totally plausible for the President, 24 hours before nuclear meltdown, to call his occasional science advisor just to give him a heads-up about the end of the world.
Oh, and I so hated that Meg is nothing but dog-whisperer and baby-carrier.
So many of the things I love in literature today are present in this book.
This isn't a perfect book.
But it is a really, really good one.I did find this, from a speech L'Engle gave:One time I was in the kitchen drinking tea with my husband and our young son, and they got into an argument about ice hockey.
I do not feel passionate about ice hockey.
It’s just that I don’t agree with you.”To which the little boy replied hotly, “If you don’t agree with me, you don’t understand.”I think we all feel that way, but it takes a child to admit it.
I hate to admit it, but getting through this book has been a bit of a chore.
After getting to know these two characters so well in the previous two books, it's a treat to see them as they get older.
The fun is tarnished (for me, anyway) with L'Engle's storytelling device of putting Charles Wallace's soul or essence inside various other characters throughout the book, and dedicating entire chapters to random characters completely unassociated with the world of the Murrays.
We'll just cram Charles Wallace's soul into a few historical fiction characters and it can still "technically" be a "Wrinkle in Time" book.
It amazes me how I can still be finding new things to think about and learn from in L'Engle's work even after 3-4 re-reads.
L'Engle has a gift for creating incredible characters - even though you only spend a short time in Madoc, Bran, Harcels, Chuck, and Matthew's brains through Charles, their stories drew me in.
And can we talk about the fact that Chuck and Matthew are both probably two of the earliest physically challenged characters in juvenile fiction?
Really, L'Engle did a ton of things right in this book that blends history, fantasy, time-travel...I'm still completely floored by her talent and work.
This book was deeply, deeply influential when I first read it. Years later, I can see it's flaws more clearly, but in many ways I don't care. L'Engle's overall sense of the universe having a fundamental all-rightness beneath its darkness, and this particular book's sense that until they do happen the awful things don't have to happen, have stayed with me through the years.Just reread 2/11/12. Still magic. Still so deep a comfort read.(Scattered thoughts about this book and The Arm of the Starfish here: http://janni.livejournal.com/774451.html)
Every time anything bad is happening, the poem is recited and everything is better.But let's get back to Charles and the unicorn.
So that's what we spend the book doing, travelling through time learning the history of Crazy Dude's family.Now, the special, magic poem has been in the family for ages (Meg's mother-in-law is from the same family), so, mostly, we just watch people get into bad situations and recite the poem to fix everything.
Charles Wallace ends up in the same time as the two guys who will fight over the woman, but is he put in a place to affect any kind of change over the outcome?
On this re-read, as bedtime stories with the kids, I enjoyed the first volume, A Wrinkle in Time, and liked the second, A Wind in the Door, even better.
Reading it aloud was often a delight, especially for a family that loves words and good use of language.I also admire L'Engle for looking at a bigger canvas than before in her storytelling.
This book includes extensive use of time-travel, as well as Charles Wallace going "Within" other people, in avatar fashion.
Charles Wallace is, of course, still brilliant.
Calvin, of course, is brilliant, like almost everyone in the book.
L'Engle is such a gifted writer that it took me much of this book for me to fully realize that it just wasn't working for me.
It's essentially a series of small family dramas, which I simply wasn't able to muster up a lot of enthusiasm for.
In the end, the fate of the world hinges on making sure that a key character (who never actually appears in person) has the correct ancestry.
In the hands of a lesser writer, I would have been bored from the start.
L'Engle was at least good enough to keep me reading to the end.
Charles Wallace, unicorns, telepathy and time travel. For me, there is very little not to like in this book. L'Engle again explores connections through space and time, and how the actions of just one person can alter history as we know it. One of the books I can read again and again and always enjoy.
Although I thought it was far better than  A Wind in the Door , this book still was a struggle to get through in my recent re-read of this series. Of the first three, which I'd read as a kid, I really only remembered plot elements from the first, and character elements from the first and second. This one, I don't know. I know I read it and enjoyed it. This time, reading the first chapter or so was stunning. It starts off surprisingly political, and despite the generally conservative presentation
It starts off surprisingly political, and despite the generally conservative presentation of women, stories of indigenous people centering white people, and genocentric concept of value and identity and even politics, it's a book with a pretty political message: listen to people, change as little as possible in their lives if you really must change something, and don't make it all about you.I see a lot of reviews complaining about the passiveness of Charles Wallace in this book, and to a certain extent they're right: he spends a lot of the book not doing anything.
I loved this book as a child, and probably much of this review will be my childhood experience of reading it.
As was L'engle's philosophy, always gently there, of a kind and loving deity who makes beautiful music, in addition to her portraying those with belief as actually open-minded, likeable people (again, a first in my experience).
And maybe submission is an awkward trope to wrap one's head around, but you certainly don't read much like it in these days of spunky, sassy heroines who are simultaneously totally sexy and totally virginal in the popular teen books.
There’s a bit of space travel in this one as well, as we take a little detour to the Unicorn homeworld… (yes, I just wrote that.) The entire story takes place over the course of a day, but spans hundreds of fictional years and many generations.L’Engle’s writing shows a growth in complexity within this book that makes it stand out a bit above the first two books, in this reader’s opinion.
Yet, it’s that very condition that makes her an ideal candidate for telepathically aiding Charles Wallace in the general save-the-world endeavors.
She stays true to form on that but instead of trying to beat you over the head with it, you learn the lesson through reading about how the actions of the characters affect the world around them.
As you read L’Engles describes a character that is an author, Matthew Maddox.
Mathew has written a book, with a story line resembling “A Swiftly Tilting Planet”, going as far as to say, “There was also a unicorn in the story, who was a time traveler.” L’Engle refers to Mathew as a writer who “…had an uncanny intuition about the theories of space, time, and relativity…” Clearly describing, I think, how she feels about herself.
But this isn't the typical "gold, silver, brass" progression of a trilogy.
Don't even get me started on this strange, ancient connection L'Engle cooks up between Welsh people and Native Americans in Patagonia who are envisioned as living in perfect harmony with each other and their environment.
The white people bring original sin--well, in the form of a Cain and Abel story--and it gets mixed into the bloodline of the Patagonian Indians.
It's better than original sin coming from the Native Americans but not much.
What does this say to you?Oh, Madeleine, you hurt me with this conclusion to the trilogy, really you did.
Sunday is my day off from housework, laundry etc., so decided to finish the third in this series.....it spans a few years in the children’s ages from A Wind in the Door.
Meg and Calvin are now married and expecting their first child, so it was quite a jump in time for me.
Trying to follow the different generations and their similar names was a bit confusing, all in all though it was a pretty good story....will decide if I want to read #4 & #5, any recommendations?
L'Engle's Time Quartet diminishes in cohesion with each installment. Whether from the author's own under-writing or her publishing house's imprudent hands-off editing after the wild success of A Wrinkle in Time, this book is a disappointment. L'Engle has shown herself capable of visionary writing, and the Wallace family is undeniably charming, so why such a half-baked result?
I like how quirky Charles Wallace is, how loving Meg is, how close the twins are, and the animals that go along with them all.
Charles Wallace travels through time with a unicorn in order to alter events and prevent nuclear war.
Jennifer Ehle read the audio version I listened to and I enjoyed her narration, for the most part.
At times it could be hard to follow a conversation when too many people were involved, but that can happen even when reading a physical version, so it didn't bother me too much.
I feel like I've been sucked into the side of an airbrushed panel van. Boom... unicorn!
I enjoyed this more than the second book. I also enjoyed that we learn more about the O'Keefe side. I would say the ending was anticlimactic. I feel like her books tend to have that oversimplified ending. I would say this book was enjoyable and worth reading but not one I would read many times.
Join up for the Time Quintet Read-A-Thon! Check out the details here if you are interested!
'Is speechless' I don't even know how to review this book... (So I won't ;P) All I can say, is that this one is maybe better than A Wrinkle In Time!
This is probably my favorite I'm on the series. L'Engle weaves the connections in the different storylines so well. You never want to stop reading until everything has fallen into place.
Charles Wallace is now fifteen and Meg is married to Calvin, and expecting their first child.
Charles Wallace and Gaudior, the unicorn, embark on an adventure through time to find the right “might have been” to be able to save the world from destruction.
This adventure brings Charles Wallace his biggest test of faith and will as he is sent within four different people.
I loved learning more about the Murry family and interacting with them further.
Charles Wallace, and Meg through him, learned a lot about surrendering to faith and not trying to take control all the time, which is something all of us need to learn.
