https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/483445.The_Magical_Worlds_of_Harry_Potter
I read another book about Harry Potter recently (The Sorcerer's Companion) which was pretty boring. This book contained so much fun facts and interesting information about my favourite book world. I just loved it.
[3.75]
I read this book when I was a kid, if I remember correctly, I would be around 12 years old.
Back then everything that had Harry Potter related to it was a must read (and it still does, but that's another day's tale).
And although this book wasn't authorized by J.
But as someone who read Harry Potter as a child, it killed the magic a bit...
But still, very good.*If you like what you read, you can find me in my blog for more reviews and other articles: http://abookandateacup.blogspot.com.ar/*
It identifies all of the elements in the Harry Potter books that come from actual literature or history.
It tells the origin of many names and words in the books.
It also points out many things you would not have noticed in the books.
For example, in book one, the Mirror of Erised isinscribed with the words "Erised stra ehru oyt ube cafru oyt on wohsi".
This book points out that backwards, the words read "I show not your face but your hearts desire." Interesting, eh?
Read this book for even more interesting things you didn't know about the Harry Potter world.
A collection of old legends which could make any mythology fan happy. No doubt, some facts, for example, what name 'Sirius' means or why James' Animagus is a deer (stag) is well known. From the mythological side - associations between the Magical World and history were nicely collected. I have never seriously thought about J. K. Rowling writing technique and how she uses many folk details in her books. Re-reading "Harry Potter" will be more interesting next time.
This was one hell of a ride !It was a treasury of myths, legends, and fascinating facts indeed.
The author took his time to research on some very interesting aspects, and I loved how he brought them together.
This book was published after the fourth book of the Harry Potter series, so it only covers the references from the first four books.
Not even in my wildest imagination I would ever thought that you have used this much references from history and mythology.
Even the names of the authors of the textbooks have some hidden meanings.
I must say I am impressed at how much work Rowling did for this book.
This book is like a puzzle for all those who love their history and mythology.
The clues are set in the pages and the reader has to search everything.
This just increased the fun 10 times more.
I have read the series 2 times but now I am tempted to read once again to see whether I can figure out more references hidden in the books.
Hats off Rowling.
I am just so lucky to have come across the book and read it.
This book is a must read for the Potterheads.
definitely a fascinating read for all the potter heads. once more I'm impressed by JKR for her enormous research behind writing the whole HP series!!!
The book aptly describes itself as a "treasury of myths, legends and fascinating facts" regarding the world of Harry Potter and it wasn't that far off in its self-description.It is a great tribute to Rowling's works; consisting of around 50+ questions aiming to dig deeper at an innocent remark or passing remark made in the books.
She was able to come up with such names by drawing inspiration from geography, foreign languages (she seems especially fond of using French and of course, Latin), literature, history, religion and mythology, saints, flowers and plants and from thin air.
The Magical Worlds of Harry Potter is a book that decodes all the sneaky hints, carefully chosen names, and adapted retellings from the one and only Harry Potter series.
As a huge nerd about mythology, not to mention Harry Potter, this book was right up my street.
Reading it has seriously magnified my appreciation and admiration for the genius behind the Harry Potter series.
I wouldn't call it perfect, but I learned a lot about Harry Potter and how his world came to be (my favourite fact being how Diagon Alley came from the word 'diagonally', the direction the street runs, and how Knockturn Alley is named so because you wouldn't want to go there 'nocturnally'), so for that I have to credit David Colbert.
The world of JK Rowling was created with real Muggle world references to loads of myths, rich Muggle history, legends, and popular literature. The book illuminates the background that went into the creation of the much beloved Harry Potter world, and where some of her influences came from. An interesting read for fandom fans! Lotsa info!
Wonderfully informative and succinct. Yet, perhaps, too brief sometimes.

This book was a great one for those who find words and the origin of words and ideas fascinating.
As many of the words or word roots and ideas have corrolations in myths and legends, the words and names that the Harry Potter series uses strikes a chord with adult readers as well as young readers as they are already familiar in oue own history and vocabulary.
The comparison of Harry Potter and Cedric Diggory to the Knights of the Round Table, the history of Avada Kedavra and the "real" famous chocolate frog wizards all make you appreciate the attention to detail in Rowling's world - and some of the factoids are pretty insightful.
3.5/5Casualmente, mi mamá y yo, encontramos una biblioteca muy pero muy chiquita, y entramos por curiosidad.
Resulta que la biblioteca "chiquita" tiene más de 50.000 libros para prestar.
Por suerte, entre los que primero vi fue este y me lo traje a casa para leerlo, ni quiera me acordaba que estaba en mi lista de to-read.El libro me gustó, no me parece la gran cosa, pero está muy bueno si sos fanático de HP.
Pero más allá de eso, algunas cosas no las sabía (o no se me habían ocurrido) y fue bueno descubrir lo grande que es el mundo Rowling.
The name is somewhat misleading; this is a cute mini-encyclopedia of the real mythological roots of many aspects of the Harry Potter books.
While I didn't learn a whole heck of a lot of new information, I would definitely recommend this book to any Harry Potter fan, especially younger ones.
If nothing else, it instilled in me a renewed interest in mythology, and the extensive bibliography and notes provide a good jumping-off point for further research.On note: the copy I read was written between the releases of Goblet Of Fire and Order of the Phoenix, and thus is it full of spoilers from the first four books and contains a sprinkling of (sometimes misguided) predictions for the latter three volumes.
En intressant bok som besvarar de mest underliga frågorna angående harry potter och hans magiska värld. Man får en helt annan bild av hur J.K Rowling har skrivit och hur hon har lyckats få allting så fantastiskt och magiskt. Och slutligen så är hjärnan ännu en gång fylld med onödig fakta om jättar, spindlar och varför trollkarlar använder trollstavar! läsvärd om du är en hp-geek med andra ord.
Interesting little facts and connections. There was a lot I already knew, but also quite a lot I didn't know, which surprised me for a book written that long ago (2001, after the release of Goblet of Fire).
An excellent guide into the world, and history of Harry Potter. However, it seemed a bit unrealistic that J.K. Rowling is so in tune with these histories...I think that this is speculation on a massive scale, and aims only to try to phantom the world of Potter... Oh well.
This book was interesting I guess but it definitely wasn't the best book I've ever read xD
Not my cup of tea. The only thing the author did was to search for words from the different languages and explain their meanings. Not interesting enough , feels like I am reading an academic book.
It's a completely unofficial guide, not associated with JKR or WB.This book covers a wide range of areas, from name meanings to mythical creatures, giving an insight into where J.K. Rowling has taken inspiration from legend and exploring the fantastical elements she has used in the Harry Potter books.Being a bit fan of the books I already know a lot of the little things that the more casual reader may not pick up on, but I learnt so much more of them from this book!
The information is easy to read and understand and gives a basic overview of each subject and its relevence to the Harry Potter books.
Still unsure if my rating is a 4/5 or a 3.5 but I'd still recommend this book if you want to learn more about the names and creatures in Harry Potter, or if you're interested in the myths of magic and witches and wizards.
This book was fun.
I can't say that it was amazing or anything, because it was just really informative.
Some subjects and explanations are more interesting to read than others.
For example: the part explaining the names of characters was interesting, I couldn't stop reading, but this explanation for the source of magic bored me.
Also, I read this in Dutch.
I am used to both Dutch and English versions of Harry Potter (really, trust me when I tell you that some names are so different in Dutch), but the last couple of YEARS I've done everything in English so it was a bit weird.
Esperaban más headcanons y teorías de harry potter, más aún cuando este libro salió antes que Orden del fénix, pero en vez de eso me encontré con menciones a la mitología bastante conocidas (unicornio, dragón, grifo, hipogrifo...) ya lo que creo que fueron dos hojas de puro justificar por qué harry era el elegido. Los libros tienen su nombre, that's why.Pero qué sé yo, fue lindo igual. Me encanta leer cosas nuevas sobre esta saga. JK Rowling, soy tu perra por siempre.
This is a must, must read for Harry Potter fans. It tells you that there lies so much symbolism at the core of the story. There are references to Greek, Norse, Celtic myths, to Christianity, to Pagan rituals. There are allusions to legends of yore, the Arthurian in particular. Rowling devises each name with a purpose. Almost everything has a basis in something. So, without further ado, go read it if you love the world of Harry Potter as much as I do.
Le doy 4 estrellas porque el libro lo que hace en sí es analizar otros libros, no porque no merezca las 5.Es una lectura sumamente interesante que hace que aprecies más si cabe el mundo con el que Rowling nos dejó con la boca abierta. Ver todas las conexiones, la historia y leyendas detrás de cada mínimo detalle. Simplemente impresionante.
I happened across a copy of this at the library book store the other day. It was a nice collection of little factoids and explanations of historical and literary and mythological allusions in the Harry Potter series. It only dealt with the first 4 books, but was full of interesting things I didn't know and memory refreshers on stuff I had forgotten. Will pass it along to a friend.
Being a huge Harry Potter fan, I'll read pretty much anything that focuses around the magical world. This was an interesting book that talks about and explains in detail the creatures and studies within the Harry Potter books - such as goblins, alchemy, divination and witches.
To any avid reader, this book didn't involve any new and thrilling ideas, but because it does involve Harry Potter - it can't be bad! A good read for new Harry Potter fans and those who have not read a lot of mythology or fantasy works.
