https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/281748.Practical_Criticism
An empirical experiment in literary criticism. Richards' discussion of his students reviews of anonymous poems is side-splittingly funny. But of his more sober conclusions, the most notable and useful is his four-fold deconstruction of 'meaning', viz., in its aspects of sense, feeling, tone and intention. That is:- What is actually being said by a poem?- What attitude does the poem show towards its subject?- What attitude to its reader?- What is the poet's intention?
Too much hierarchy & assumptions about texts being self-contained systems of language.

My grandmother had been an English teacher, I assumed this came from her, can't see my hard-headed mother delving into such matters as close reading of fifteen poems, especially blind readings.
Part III, "Analysis," then presents what Richards feels to be the basic issues faced by any close reader of poetry--not only the poetics, but also the things the reader brings to the poem ("this reminds me of...' or "i hate religious poems...")Right now I'm still in Part II, the student protocols.
But learning a lot about reading poetry.*********God, that was certainly a slog!
It is thequalityof thereadingwegivethem thatmatters,not thecorrectness with which weclassifythem. For it isquite possibleto like thewrongpoemsand disliketherightones for reasons which are excellent.It is an idea, and ideas are always interesting but its put forth in a very cumbersome way or may be I am an over ambitious person when it comes to reading , read in two hours. Summary is the Summary one can keep as a text within a list of teaching learning material. rather a must. Interesting read. Methodology is no doubt Practical but its irksome.
I am amused by Richards's students! They are funny, even when misguided. I wish that modern students were as entertaining.This book is remarkably intuitive, and is correct, I think, in many things with regard to poetry. Richards seems to be a superb reader. I am not sure, however, with regard to his stance on intentionality -- tone is perhaps not the same. Still, there's a lot to digest, especially with respect to emotionality in reading poetry
I liked the bulk of this very much, the collection of examples of practical criticism, the actual reactions that students in the 1920s had to a selection of poetry Richards presented them with. It made me want to recreate the experiment in the present day and see what happens. His theory -- parts of it interesting, parts merely abstruse, and parts passed already by time. All in all, very worth reading, but not fantastic.
Who could think analyzing student papers could be so useful?
Highly recommended.
