https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/300818.Writing_Degree_Zero
Yazım sanatının en doğuş halini anlatmış Barthes. Kalemin kutsallığının en akademik anlatımı sanırım. Dil gibi sonsuz bir mecrayı kontrol altına almak, kalemle, ses hücreleriyle düşünce ve yazımla dizginlemenin ne kadar zor ama ne kadar kutsal olduğunu da her sayfada bıkmadan anlatıyor.Kitabın sanırım yeni basımlarında uzatılmış hali mevcut. Yeni halinde uzun uzun anlatılan dil ve yazım sanatının örnekleri büyük yazarların kitaplarından alıntılarla örneklendirilmiş. (Proust, Pierre Loti gibi..)
حول الكتابة في درجة الصفر والكتابة والثورة والكتابة والصمت، ينقب رولان بارت في اللغة وفي تاريخ الكتابة معطيا قواعد جديدة انطلقت منها أغلب الكتابات الحديثة.
Often just as impenetrable and abstruse as you fear - Susan Sontag's introductory essay to the 1968 
Roland Barthes succinctly expresses his concern about the separation between the (writer’s) individual “style” and the “language” of society.
According to him, these two “objects” of convention (“style” and “language”) escape the writer’s control.
Style results from one’s habits formed over the passage of time in his personal and biological conditions, and is alien to language which results from social convention, common to all social members.
As a way to bridge these two, Barthes introduces “écriture” (writing), by which the writer commits himself to society.
In this operation, écriture works as a “function” which connects style and language through the individual’s intention to carry out his moral responsibility to reach out to society.
والحقيقة من ضمن قراءاتي القادمة كتاب من كتب زولا وسأرى بنفسي هذه الصورة إن شاء الله يتابع بعدها في نقده لكتاب الشكلية الذين كانت اللغة مبدأهم ومنتهاهم والشكلية إهتمامهم كمالارميه التي مثلت حالة عجز فلو أنهم تركوا الكتابة لكان ذلك أحرى بهم ( مرحلة الصمت ) ويكشف عن جزيئة الكتاب المحايدة (الصفرية ) التي أصبحت الحل كما ظهرت عند ألبير كامو حيث تم تغييب الشكل وحمل الفكر مسؤوليته وحتى هذه الكتاب تتدهور في الحيز الزماني حيث يضيق الشكل الخناق على الفكر ويصبح الكاتب مقلدا لأسطورته البدائية ( كتابته البيضاء – الحيادية )عموما هذه الفترة أثرت فيها الصورة السياسية أثرا جليا بعد هذه المرحلة ظهرت تجليات الكتابة في الأخذ من الكلام أو الإطار المجتمعي للغة متمثلا في اللهجات والصور العامية والتي كانت في بدايتها صورة لمواضعة الضحك فأصبحت صورة موضوعية كما هو عند بلزاك وبروستوفي مراجعة للكتابة الحديثة يوقع رولان بارت الكاتب موضع حيرة بين ما يفعله وبين ما يراه فهو محصور بين التراث الكتابي طريقة التعبير التي ألفها والوقائع الماثلة أمامه ولا يستطيع التعبير عنها ..
http://delsharm.blog.ir/1397/08/29/de...این کتاب مجموعه مقالات پیوستهٔ رولان بارت (۱۹۱۵-۱۹۸۰) منتقد ادبی قرن بیستم فرانسه است. به نظر میرسد حرفهای این کتاب رنگ کهنگی به خودش گرفته باشد، مانند فرق ادبیات بورژوا و کمونیستی، و آیا ادبیات باید سیاسی باشد یا خیر. ظاهراً حرف بارت آن است که به خاطر تأثیر جامعه بر روی نویسنده، سیاست و جامعه تبدیل به بُعد سوم نوشتن میشود. از نظر بارت، ادبیات فرانسه از فلوبر به بعد از حالت رئالیسم توصیفی به فرمی تبدیل شده است که اقناعکننده و زیباشناسانه است. بارت آرمانشهر
http://delsharm.blog.ir/1397/08/29/de...این کتاب مجموعه مقالات پیوستهٔ رولان بارت (۱۹۱۵-۱۹۸۰) منتقد ادبی قرن بیستم فرانسه است.
به نظر می‌رسد حرف‌های این کتاب رنگ کهنگی به خودش گرفته باشد، مانند فرق ادبیات بورژوا و کمونیستی، و آیا ادبیات باید سیاسی باشد یا خیر.
ظاهراً حرف بارت آن است که به خاطر تأثیر جامعه بر روی نویسنده، سیاست و جامعه تبدیل به بُعد سوم نوشتن می‌شود.
از نظر بارت، ادبیات فرانسه از فلوبر به بعد از حالت رئالیسم توصیفی به فرمی تبدیل شده است که اقناع‌کننده و زیباشناسانه است.
بارت آرمان‌شهر زبان را در ادبیات می‌بیند.
یک جنبه‌اش قدیمی بودن کتاب و جنبهٔ دیگرش وجههٔ نظری و تخصصی آن است.
I read only the title essay. Barthes is concerned about the relationship writing has to power. He argues that writing is always a question of power not only in the content it communicates but even and especially in its style. The utopian ideal is a neutral blank writing style, but that’s unattainable.
A whole lot of fluff you need to go through before you can see what he means.
I am left with the impression that noone wanted to point out that the emperor had (almost) no clothes, fearing they would seem too stupid to understand the profound truths (intentionally vague and ambiguous deepities, mostly).
There is a point and meaning behind all this, but it is not given easily, or willingly.
I have no desire to read an author that does not wish to be understood, I don't want to pry truth from someone who does not wish to share it freely.
مشخصا شروع کار رولان بارته، اون ابهت فکر و کلام همیشگی رو نداره، اما خیلی قابل اعتناست؛ و مهم برای هر نویسنده.
مشخصا شروع کار رولان بارته، اون ابهت فکر و کلام همیشگی رو نداره، اما خیلی قابل اعتناست؛ و مهم‌ برای هر نویسنده.
WRITING DEGREE ZERO isn’t a poem, though the title is as inscrutable and evocative as one.
Even Susan Sontag notes in her revealing preface that it’s not a good place to start in Barthes’ oeuvre.
I don’t have a terrible body, for a man of my age, and I’m not a sound sleeper.
While biding my time, trying to unravel reams of knotty ideas about writing and history, I’d be struck by a sentence or two.
For example, “Modernism begins with the search for a Literature which is no longer possible.” I don’t know what that means, but I like it.
I get that I don’t get it.
Barthes' primary allegiance is to the impulse that leads an artist to write. The language the writer uses, his style, is an organic response to what he feels needs to be said. It all seems so simple. And what I'm especially interested in is his statement describing accessibility in literature. It is merely a decision, for the writer, to participate in the dominant (for Barthes, this reads "bourgeoisie) rhetoric of that time. The writer is the one in control, then. There is no one language system the writer is beholden to. They are his to manipulate, or his to use.

كتاب نقدي هام
Classical writing is defined as the writing that appears as the national languages are standardised and codified by way of dictionaries and grammars under the economic focus of the expanding book market (around 1700).
It was promoted as universal but really was the cultural movement of an period of bourgeois dominance.The Realism of writers like Emile Zola (1840 - 1902) that was a part of this attempted break, used a combination of the formal signs of Literature (The past tense, indirect speech, written rhythms) with a smattering of colloquialisms, shock words and working class speech.
Barthes claims that the use of a real language by a writer is the most human act they can make.
The introduction helps a little, but you really don't need it.If people spent more time reading the fucking books and less time bitching about how the books were unreadable, then people might actually be able to read the books.
Structuralists believe social structures are real.
Trust, feelings, words, memories are all parts of social relationships.So when you find someone saying something about how "Barthes writes in an obtuse style," first, no, he doesn't.
It's not him making it sound like "society is crazy man." It's him writing according to a fundamental belief that social relationships should be valued on the same level as something physical.
Relatively interesting book but I’m not sure I totally understood it to be honest. It’s about writing and literature. And had some interesting chapters like what is writing, writing and the novel, poetic writing, writing and revolution, writing and silence, the utopia or writing and bourgeois writing!A few of my best bits:• Poetry = prose +a+b+c • Prose = Poetry – a-b-c• These unrelated objects – words adorned with all the violence of their irruption the vibration of which though wholly mechanic
Relatively interesting book but I’m not sure I totally understood it to be honest.
And had some interesting chapters like what is writing, writing and the novel, poetic writing, writing and revolution, writing and silence, the utopia or writing and bourgeois writing!A few of my best bits:•	Poetry = prose +a+b+c •	Prose = Poetry – a-b-c•	These unrelated objects – words adorned with all the violence of their irruption the vibration of which though wholly mechanical strangely affects the next word, only to die out immediately – those poetic words exclude men – there is no humanise of modern poetry.
A short, strange, uneven, and often fascinating book. Some of it is quite difficult to follow unless you know a lot about French literature, since 100% of the writers he cites are French. But the latter half's analysis of the traps fiction writing has found itself in for the last two hundred years is definitely worth the read.
A whole lot of fun even though I don't know anything about French literature.
Only partially completed! Return to
Un régal de l'écartèlement nerveux.
No es mi favorito de Barthes, definitivamente tiene mucho mejores.
pero siempre analiza la literatura en cualquier libro de él, aunque sea un poco.Pero para alguien que quiere escribir y entender el fino arte de la literatura así como su historia, está de lujo.
Su uso de los puntos y las comas lo hacen muy especial y logra ser especifico en lo que está queriendo decir.En fin, es un buen libro pero no para juzgar a Roland Barthes.
Es su primer libro de análisis pero el segundo(Mitologías) es donde alcanza realmente su mejor punto crudo (antes de madurar bastante como escritor).-PD.
"I was recently at a bookstore to pick up a copy of Writing Degree Zero I had ordered.
The bookstore was a franchise of one of the old chains being driven out of business by the new mega-stores.
In the particular area there are few privately owned bookstores and all are at a considerable distance.
My desire to keep alive diversity and to prevent the publishing industry from descending to a mere commodity exchange would have to be satisfied by this ambivalent and surely inconsequential act.I felt that I needed to go back to Roland Barthes’s brilliant book on ‘non-style’ — on the ‘zero level’ or ‘spoken level’ of writing — in order to recapture a mythical clarity I once possessed...."Click here to read the complete essay/review at >>> Jacket Magazine.
у всьому цьому (недовгому) тексті про літературу (взагалі, помітьте) барт аж двічі покликається на не-французьких письменників: агату крісті (не називаючи ні її, ні "вбивство роджера акройда", до якого, власне, й відсилає) і франца кафку (втім, не на нього самого, а на те, що про нього писав французький бланшо). і так багато говорить про особливості французької мови (простий минулий час у романі) як засадничі для розуміння літератури, що навіть сумніви виникають, чи вважає він літературою щось, написане не по-французьки.але не люблю я про цю книжку не великофранцузький снобізм. просто вона здебільша надумана і переважно скучна.
Cryptograms of the writing of novels and histories with an singular approach using the styles of Flaubert, Camus, Balzac, Voltaire, Rousseau, Cayrol, Gide, Borges, Beckett, and on and so forth, to make some point about the Novel, History, and the languages found and made.
It's a dense book, and it even seems that Susan Sontag is trying to make you not read it in her preface.
This book was probably too much for the heavy American literary audience at one time, but I'm not so sure now.
Then again it may not stand the test of time all that well.

Not my favorite of the Barthes book, but the "Empire of Signs" is the one that springs to mind as being a masterpiece of some sort - as well as his great "Mythologies." Nevertheless, a very dense piece of work and an early Roland title as well.
Geared totally to French literature, it is interesting in how it conveys a thoughtfulness on the art of reading and writing literature.
There's text, and then there is how Barthes looks at that text.
He is the scientist of the mood, and therefore probably one of the great critical writers.
A modern mind looking at the history of French writing.
Difícil, opaco, un texto inmensamente valioso como testimonio del que llegó a explorar las últimas profundidades del arte de escribir.
No me detuve a repensar en cada salto entre cada frase, más me dejé llevar por la sed de querer a volver a encontrar esas ideas brillantes, precisas, que se hayan cada dos o tres párrafos.
Cada una de ellas revela un nuevo mundo o conecta lo que hasta entonces, durante lecturas, habían sido en mi mente leves murmuraciones.
Unificador y clarificador, abre nuevos caminos, un libro para ser releído y rumiado, de inteligencia superior, serio, e incluso, como guinda de la torta, con mucho humor.
I only feel like reading Barthes mid-morning, at the caffeine crest. I'm skimming this as part of an obligatory lit-survey. His particular statement of 'classic vs. romantic' is perceptive (smooth, monotonous, compacted 'relational' diction as opposed to a more various and individually colorful word-choice) but needlessly elaborate; Strachey says the same thing, but in less than half the page-space.
يتحدث الكاتب عن الكتابة من الدرجة صفر .. لغة بيضاء متحررة من كل تبعية لنظام محدد من أنظمة اللغة .. ومثالها الشفاف تجده في "الغريب" لـ كامي حيث اسلوب غياب .. الكتاب أمثلته كلها مستمدة من الأدب الفرنسي فقط ..اللسان قبل الأدب .. و الأسلوب هو ما بعده .. الأسلوب : انه ميثولوجيا الكتاب الفردية و السرية أيضاً .. إنه الشيء الذي يملكه الكاتب و هو بهاؤه و سجنه و هو عزلته .. الأسلوب لا مبال و شفاف بالنسبة إلى المجتمع .. مسيرة الشخص المغلقة و ليس نتاج اختيار على الإطلاق أو تأمل حول الأدب ..
I enjoyed feeling like I actually understood most of his book, and Susan Sontag's introductory essay helped. I don't actually like the schema that Barthes uses of language, style, and writing: the idea that the first two are immutable givens (linguistic/social and biological, respectively) doesn't make sense to me in light of later theory. But the rest of the book is a great read.
