https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6356190-the-little-sisters-of-eluria
Both editions contain Whelan's additional new illustrations for The Gunslinger.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: دهم ژانویه سال 2010 میلادیعنوان: خواهران کوچک ایلوریا و مرد کت شلوار مشکی؛ نویسنده استیون کینگ؛ مترجم: ماندانا قهرمانلو؛ تهران، افراز، 1386؛ در129 ص؛ شابک: 9789642837533؛ پدر بزرگ دوستم گفته: شیطان قدم زنان از داخل جنگی بیرون آمده، و درست مثل آدمی معمولی شروع کرده بوده به صحبت کردن با او.
رولند و اسب ‌رو به‌ مرگش تاپسی، به شهر کوچک متروکه‌ ای می‌رسند، شهری به نام ایلوریا.
یعنی ممکن است، خون‌آشام باشند؟ یعنی بیماران را شفا می‌دهند تا خود از آنها تغذیه کنند؟ مدال طلا، حالت محافظِ مقدس رولند را دارد.
This story takes place prior to the events of The Gunslinger when Roland was still casting about for the Man in Black's trail.
The hospital's staffed by a handful of nuns, who seem eager enough to help him get back on his feet.
However, besides the lack of patients, there's something strangely off about this place .
I cherry-picked my copy from the short story collection: Everything's Eventual: 14 Dark Tales.I must say, I was fairly disappointed in Roland's skill, or lack thereof, especially considering that he still had the use of both of those lightning fast hands.
به نظرم باید این کتاب رو برای گروه سنی نوجوانان طبقه بندی میکردن! اما این سه ستاره رو به خاطر این میدم که اگر سنم کمتر بود حتما از این دو داستان لذت میبردم و دلیل دیگه هم اینکه کینگ نویسنده محبوبمه :دی
Written in the same stilted and cold prose as The Gunslinger, “Little Sisters of Eluria” just feels off-putting, and it has the unfortunate distinction of being entirely unimportant in the Dark Tower universe.
As well, all tension is absent as the reader knows Roland will survive the events of this story, and go further on his quest.This story was written during a period in King’s career when everything — novels, novellas, short stories — were long, and they were all connected to the Dark Tower in some way.
“Little Sisters” falls into that camp — at least, for this reader.
4 starsHaving decided that I would finally read the Dark Tower series - which has rested in wait on my book shelf for the better part of 20 years - I started with The Little Sisters of Eluria, which was actually written after the 5th book of the series published in 2003.
Little Sisters written as a .5 addition to the series, was published in 2008.
Rescued by Sister Jenna and the cross-dog, Roland starts his westward walk, in the low-country hills, on his way towards the Dark Tower.
At the request of Dan (version 2.0), I am putting up my rating of this short story even though I read it is part of a collection that I rated on here already.......This is a fun story.
It is one of the stories of the collection, Everything's Eventual: 14 Dark Tales that I remember the most so that's good since I read it over a decade ago.
If I am going to tell you anymore about this, I need to re-read it first because, you know, I read it eleven years ago.But if it makes Dan 2.0 happy, then this mini-review was worth it.
Usually, short stories that are part of a big saga universe are lacking something. But not this one.It can be read as a stand alone or as an addition to the Dark Tower quest, for those who already read the big series.An awesome creepy tale.
When Roland is involved, only good can come of it and this short story (that I originally read in the compilation book Everything's Eventual) served his story well.
Set before Roland has caught up to the Man in Black, where the first Dark Tower novel takes place, Roland is set upon by a gang of mutants whilst on his journey.
Here we are exposed to the potent Dark Tower story threads that fans of the series know and love, but more importantly we are exposed to a Roland, not entirely void of emotion as he is in the following tales.
Anything Roland touches turns to gold and this story is no exception.
Read as part of Edwards Dark Tower discussion group.This event in Rolands life took place before The Gunslinger, but it needs to be read later for the character to make sense. In this case, Roland seemed weak and amateurish. Totally out of character for the young, surviving knight from Gilead. This story can be found in the Everythings Eventual collection.
I read this Dark Tower shortie from King's collection,  Everything Eventual. I really wish it had been much longer, or that it had ended on a much happier note.But as usual, King's brilliant. ALL THE STARS.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
I actually read this as part of Everything's Eventual, but GR has limitations surrounding reading short story collections, so I've recorded the reading under this edition.After only two pages it's had already become clear that this cannot be read as a standalone (despite what King tries to tell us in the introduction) and is misplaced as #0.5 in the series.
When I read the entire Everything's Eventual collection (which will be at some point after I finish the rest of The Dark Tower series) I will definitely be rereading this with added interest to see how my perception of it changes with my new knowledge of the entire story.
A Fantastic short story about Roland Deushain of gilead along his quest to find the dark tower, this story takes place before Roland meets up with Jake, Eddie and his other compainions. If your like me and love the Dark tower series then dont miss this story, It doesnt matter if you choose to read this before durning or after you read the dark tower novels, This is a great story to get you started with the Series though and worth reading
This story was like coming home to a long lost friend. I was happy to be back on the journey with Roland and enjoyed every moment ka had given me. This tale was well met indeed. Stephen, you remember the face of your father well. I can't wait for more tower stories.
Крошка рассказ, очень в стиле Кинга, очень по духу подходит циклу Тёмная Башня. особо нового тут мало, только парочка фактов о Стрелке, но я и этому рада.
Nu primesti niciun fel de explicatie. Ai un personaj si o lume ale caror atribute trebuie sa le ghicesti.Dar povestirea e destul de interesanta. Povestea are loc inaintea evenimentelor din primul volum al seriei Turnul Intunecat.Probabil ca mi-a placut din cauza lui Witcher 3, mai exact din cauza Ladies Of The Woods aka Crones of Crookback Bog. Ori de cate ori surorile apareau in scena, ieseam din carte si intram in Witcher 3.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VOvon...https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ob9F1...Cate nopti am pierdut incercand sa il ajut pe Bloody Baron, cate nopti m-a urmarit povestea lui si coloana sonora care inca imi da fiori:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yXoz7...
This is one freaky story about the gunslinger being captured buy some weird green dudes who seem to be dead. Then taken to the little sisters who heal him with little bugs that sing. why they bother to heal him I don't know as they just plan to suck him dry anyway. Thankfully the sisters done like gold is all I can say.
It's a short book, so a review for it would be pointless. Needless to say it was a good pre-book to the series. The quote that impressed me the most:  If there's to be damnation, let it be by my choosing, not theirs.
خواهران کوچک خوب بود. برجهای تاریک کینگ رو کامل نخوندم، اما این به قولی پیشدرآمد برام خوب بوداما مرد کت شلوار مشکی.. شاید اگر 10 ساله بودم بیشتر لذت میبردم ازش:). درواقع بیشتر میترسیدم و لذت میبردم :دیاما..استفن کینگ هنوزم برای من یک پادشاهه
خواهران کوچک خوب بود. برج‌های تاریک کینگ رو کامل نخوندم، اما این به قولی پیش‌درآمد برام خوب بوداما مرد کت شلوار مشکی.. شاید اگر 10 ساله بودم بیشتر لذت می‌بردم ازش:). درواقع بیشتر می‌ترسیدم و لذت می‌بردم :دیاما..استفن کینگ هنوزم برای من یک پادشاهه
3.5 stars
As I'm taking my second trip to the Dark Tower, I thought the completionist in me needed to read this. It's fine as a stand-alone story, and has elements to the tower series: slow mutants, the concept of ka, his childhood friends, Cort, and the one and only Susan Delgado. The sisters, kept at bay by his Jesus-man medallion, were intriguing characters, with Jenna as the hero. I think it is a good primer as to the lyrical styling in the series. I wanted someone to be playing "Hey Jude" in the old ragtime stylings, just as Sheb did.
Another adventure of Roland that was more like a bad experience for, but it was at all a bad experience for me to read this story.
Concept Well the same Roland and the same journey towards the dark tower as we know, but it was un canny that Stephen did not mention it anywhere that is why I said it was more like a random adventure of Roland nothing to do with the series.
I would have been glad if it bestowed some light on the journey of Roland but it was not like that.
Character Roland and the Sisters of Eluria covered most of the story.
Tāds kā prīkvels "The Dark Tower", ko Kings attaisno ar to, ka jaunpienācējiem šis iecerēts kā labāka iepazīstināšana ar Rolandu, bet rudītiem sērijas faniem - atkalredzēšanās ar iemīļotu varoni.
Kas man neatbilda nevienā no variantiem - jau otro reizi lasu sērijas oficiālo pirmo grāmatu, un nevarētu teikt, ka Rolands man būtu dikti mīļš (varbūt pat gluži pretēji, bet par to citu reizi).It kā stāstam pašam par sevi nav ne vainas - īsti Kinga stilā, dabūju arī tējkaroti ja ne baiļu, tad pretīguma gan (nepatīk kukaiņi) - taču no Kinga un darba, kam vajadzētu iekļauties viņa varenajā sāgā, tomēr gaidīju vairāk.
Tāds "varonis nelika mieru un, ja kā reiz spalva pa rokai, tad kāpēc nepierakstīt".
It is promoted as a short that can stand on its own two feet even for those that are unfamiliar with the series.
If that is true, then I guess I will be going no further with the series.
It was a fine time killer for a short airplane flight but also completely forgettable.
I have had my eye on the Dark Tower series for a while now?
I finally did start reading those but killed the series only a few books in.
This time I am not going to bother.
I consulted a Dark Tower expert and he told me I may as well read the books in chronological story order, so that's what I did.
The Little Sisters of Eluria has a delicate edge to it: filled with detail that would be meaningful to long-term readers of the The Dark Tower, but also intriguing and atmospheric enough as a good entrée for the uninitiated.The Little Sisters of Eluria is notable because it features an economically but expansively realised account of a ghost town, and follows it up with prose that's as shimmering and hallucinatory as the experience that its Gunslinger protagonist goes through himself.
5/3/15: This was a good story.
It is a good way to ease into the Dark Tower Series.
I'm reading #1, The Gunslinger next!I'm actually reading The Little Sisters of Eluria novella within SK's book of short stories called Everything's Eventual - I want to read the rest of the stories in there eventually (ha-ha) - but wanted to read Little Sisters as a prequel to diving into the Dark Tower Series.
I'm ready for another epic SK read - just finished IT and read The Stand Uncut last year.
And the DT series is 8 books - I think I'm ready.
So far so good!
"The Little Sisters of Eluria" by Stephen King was a mini-episode in the "Dark Tower" saga, but one which can stand alone and still entertain. In many ways it was almost unnecessary to the "Dark Tower" saga, but it did fit within the tale, albeit somewhat strangely.I was quite satisfied with this story, as it relates a time in Roland's life where he fell to the mercy of a strange lot of women who weren't quite normal. (Roland is the main character in the Dark Tower saga.)This is definitely a story all King fans should read.
A great little story about Roland and his quest for the Dark Tower. I wished I wud have read it earlier. But I just got done reading The Wind Through the Keyhole and remembered this story. I loved it. If you are a Dark Tower nut like I am, don't make the same mistake I did and wait to read this. You will not be disappointed, I promise.
It's King. It's Roland. It essentially reads like a lost chapter of 'The Gunslinger'. What could go wrong?I recommend reading it after Book IV. Just imagine it as another one of Roland's stories that he tells the rest of the gang on some dark and stormy night.
On the other side of finishing Black House, I felt compelled to visit with Roland of Gilead. A cool stand alone story that takes place before the events of the first book in the series. While not needed to enjoy the Dark Tower as a whole, it is good to see Roland before he makes the desert.
