https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9533096-if-winter-comes
A good read for 11/11/2018.
Free download available at Project Gutenberg.
It says a lot that something written 93 years ago still makes compelling reading!
But what I especially appreciated about it is that it follows its major characters from just before World War I through that horrible event and then to the year immediately following its conclusion.
Having recently read several works on the period of the 1870s through the 1920s, I appreciated how this novel reflected the initial widespread incredulity that a war would be entered into "in these modern times." The subsequent feeling of adventure did not last long and, as the slaughter and stalemate continued, the horror and loss of this war impacted all in numerous ways.
Project Gutenberg - http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/14145Film also - https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/If_Wi...A. S.
He wrote romance and family novels as well as short stories for publications such The Sphere Magazine.
His best-selling novel, If Winter Comes, was in many aspects ahead of its time, dealing with an unhappy marriage, eventual divorce, and an unwed mother who commits suicide.
According to the New York Times, If Winter Comes was the best-selling book in the United States for all of 1922.
The following year, Fox Film Corporation made it into a motion picture of the same name directed by Harry F.
- Wikipedia
The part about the Great War comes in the middle of the book, and rips everything apart, Sabre, the country, his relationships, it's quite horrible, but very well done by the author.The book is brilliantly written in a variety of styles, from straight narrative to a Joseph Conrad-like storytelling by Sabre's friend Hapgood.
There are fabulous descriptive moments, a beautiful passage about October in particular, and great sweeping philosophical statements about England and the War. It reads more like an epic poem than a novel, but is fairly easy to read, and, like many of the bestsellers I've read, has the quality where you immediately want to get tell of your friends to read it.
Description: Hutchinson's best-selling novel, If Winter Comes (1921), was in many aspects ahead of its time, dealing with an unhappy marriage, eventual divorce, and an unwed mother who commits suicide.
According to the New York Times, If Winter Comes was the best-selling book in the United States for all of 1922.
However, it proved to be highly successful and was ranked by the New York Times as the 7th best-selling book in the United States for 1923 and the 6th best for all of 1924.
A book written in the same vain as bonfire of the vanities. It is less cynical, but is more sappy. The "god is love" statement shows the authors humanist thought.
This book was a bestseller when it was first published in 1921, and is freely available on Project Gutenberg thanks to the efforts of Distributed Proofreaders. This was the first eBook that I "post-processed", which means I checked for any remaining errors, and created the final text and HTML versions. It was an okay book. The date I read it is approximate, based on the time it was published to Project Gutenberg.
Though the story and its progression are interesting, the style of writing was very annoying, I thought. There was so much spiraling around and repeating of basic information through the thoughts and retelling of characters in a sort of stream of consciousness mode. I found it very hard to read and skimmed much of it to get on with the story.
This novel by a little know author is surprising wonderful. Short of 5 stars simply due to the fact that it is not quite that captivating, but overall wonderful. Very British in style and true to period in progress and development of plot. Ending not fully expected and pleasant. A must read for those who enjoy British Literature.
This book completely pulled me in. Written so well as to find myself fully invested in the characters. The war element was written so well it had me waiting for it to end. I found myself at three-quarters through not wanting it to end. Knowing not how it would end.
Very thought provoking about what society preaches and what they actually expect. It was very slow getting to the point, however. Be patient... it's tiny nuggets of insights before the wammy comes at the end.
Read this book for free through Project Gutenberg: http://www.gutenberg.org/files/14145/...
