https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28369.Zazie_in_the_Metro
Ascending, descending, coming, going, a man does so much that in the end he disappears.”― Raymond Queneau, Zazie in the Metro A Raymond Queneau funny-bone tickler, a witty zazissle through Paris with Uncle Gabriel hosting visiting Zazie, the ever oh so very loveable little wisecracker who oh so very much wishes to ride the city’s Metro.
Oodles and oodles as per this snatch of dialogue in the opening pages: Not displeased with his turn of phrase, the little chap wasn’t.
I’m attempting to look behind the pizzazz of the wordplay, to fully fathom the fundaments of this underground story (and the subversion of language and narrative which characterizes the book, of course).Tu causes, tu causes, c’est tout ce que tu sais faire!
Another one which I read because of a book group selection, this time in the Forgotten Classics...
group.
It is a book that is impossible to distance completely from the film it inspired, a wild playful comic adventure set in a Paris netherworld that clearly owes much to Joyce.
It is much easier to read than Joyce and the tone is much lighter - one senses Queneau, like his heroine Zazie, saw life as a game in which nothing matters very much.I did enjoy it but overall felt it lacked substance.
"Zazie" was written by French writer Raymond Queneau (1903-1976) and published in 1959.
The book is loaded with this type of language, later referred to in France as "Zazie Speak".
The escapades of a pre-teen girl (Zazie) while visiting her uncle (unkoo) Gabriel in Paris for the weekend.
Her "unkoo" is a female impersonator and this lends itself to many of the comic situations found in the book.
The title is a little misleading because it gives the impression that Zazie spends all her time on the Metro, which is what she really wanted to see in Paris.
Clearly this is enough to recommend this booka) Though I suspect it must be read in French - However I have read highly positive reviews from people who clearly read it in English (geste) so maybe a good translation exists for the francophonically-challenged - Incidentally, watching Futurama with French (or, I suppose, any other language) subtitles is hilarious because they translate all the jokes in the most literal way possible.
Look, it's quite simple really - if you don't love this book then there is something fundamentally wrong with you. My suggestion would either be medical help or, should you wish to save yourself and the world some time and effort, throwing yourself under the nearest Metro.
Je la ramenais à ses parents.Le cercle ricane avec un scepticisme déjà solidement encré.La dame insiste; elle se penche vers Zazie.- Allons, ma petite, n'aie pas peur, dis-le-moi ce qu'il t'a dit le villain meussieu?- C'est trop sale, murmure Zazie.- Il t'a demandé de lui faire des choses?- C'est ça, mdame.Zazie glisse à voix basse quelques détails dans l'oreille de la bonne femme.
Celle-ci se redresse et crache à la figure de Turandot.- Dégueulasse, qu'elle lui jette en plus en prime.Et elle lui recrache une second fois de nouveau dessus, en plein poire.Un type s'enquiert:- Qu'est-ce qu'il lui a demandé de lui faire?La bonne femme glisse les détails zazique dans l'oreille du type:- Oh!

Q. Besides a lifespan that encompassed the first years of the 20th century through the late 1970’s, first-hand knowledge of the consequences of both world wars, a lifelong devotion to both wife and literature, a large body of work that spanned many genres, with a love of wordplay, humor, high diction, multilinguistic prose, a great attention to structure and experiments in form, and late recognition as one of the most important and influential writers in their respective language(s), what did Raymond Queneau and Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov have in common?A.
It’s everything Queneau does amplified, refined, distilled, and...
Crystallized my arse.
Videorecensione: https://youtu.be/0P0FTDOT7Ao
Ooooh this book is so good. It's fun, funny, and clever; and it's a super-quick read that's worth every second spent. Apparently in France this book is to  Raymond Queneau as  Lolita is to  Nabokov, i.e. a seemingly simple, widely accessible, and wildly popular novel by an otherwise very intellectual, somewhat unapproachable genius. For whatever that's worth. In any case, this book is phenomenally good. A perfect Sunday-afternoon read.
Read in French. Burlesque voyage through Paris, with the precocious girl Zazie and unlikely company. Continuous surprising turns and twists that break all conventions. Just marvellous read; at the same time a most endearing human document.
A fizzy, surreal-adjacent rendition of what might in the parlance of the sixties been called a 'romp through the low-lights' of postwar Paris.
Tweenish, precocious pre-ingénue Zazie, and everyone in her trail/path engage in exactly the wrong sort of thing to be doing for 1959 France.
In 2014 this would be best on a beach with a cool Fernet Branca, an afternoon's read that doesn't last longer than the fizz.
Được rồi, đầu tiên phải nhấn mạnh là thần kinh hài hước của mình đã tê liệt bán phần từ rất lâu rồi, nên vì thay vì thấy quyển này buồn cười như nhiều người, mình lại thấy nó dở hơi.Cố gắng đọc hết để biết vì sao quyển này lại lọt vào Tủ sách Cánh cửa mở rộng.
Đọc xong hết rồi vẫn chẳng biết được là tại sao.
Cũng chẳng biết được mình đã đọc phải cái gì.
Với một đứa chẳng bao giờ nhớ được tên như mình thì đây đúng là một trò hành hạ!
I love this book.
I would give it six stars if I wasn't held to the five star rating system.
The comical twists and turns, Zazie's adventures, her uncle Gabriel...
While I read, Herge like graphics continually popped up in my mind; which makes sense considering this was made into a running comic as well as a film.
Zazie is something...
and while the reader assumes she's an early teen, and prone to the surly brattiness that comes with the age, I think if I met her, and interacted with her, I might consider punching her in the jaw, or kicking her in the arse of her blewgenes.
Zazie's gone downtown and Zazie's gone all around. Zazie has turned the entire Paris upside down in no time."Are you a homo-sessuell? Do I look like a fruit?"Recently I've watched the movie adaptation of the book. Of course the film is quite different from Raymond Queneau's novel but Louis Malle made a special stress on the weird visual scenes so he managed to make me see all the events in a new light
I've just upgraded my rating here.I read this when I was at university and it was great fun but I'm not too sure that I would like to read Mr Queneau's other books. Zany Zazie!
– За годеж най-подходящо се явява средно бялото с девствено сребрист оттенък.– Колкото до девственото, няма да се получи – обади се Мадо.“„– Не се хáби, пиленце!“„– Трябва да идете на сихоаналистик – посъветва го Гриду.“„– Има ченгета, дето не са много акълии.– Ама вие пък сте съвсем застрелян.“„Но колелистите току-тъй не се отказваха от замисъла си.– Документите!
– крещеше оня, дето го биваше да говори.– Документите!
– крещеше и оня, дето не го биваше.“„Ерген съм от най-крехка възраст и животът ме е направил какъвто съм.“„Не забравяйте и изкуството все пак.
Няма само хахо-хихо – има и изкуство.“
Khi hệ thống tàu điện ngầm ngưng hoạt động do đình công, Zazie quyết định tự khám phá Paris theo cách riêng mình.Suýt trở thành nạn nhân tình dục của cha ruột và bố dượng, đã ra tòa làm chứng để cứu mẹ, chứng kiến mẹ chạy theo các nhân tình một cách tuyệt vọng...
Leaving aside the fact that this kind of literature is completely incomprehensible for people like me who like their books with a semblance of a plot and a logical dialogue, I cannot help to think that sadly my grasp of French is too basic for me to read the book in the original, which would have mightily improved the chance of me finding the book intriguing.
This seems to be one of those books best enjoyed in their initial language by people who can appreciate the word-forging ingenuity of the author.
DNF at 77%.
Zazie, you are an adorable shit! I can't decide who I liked best...Zazie, Gabriel, Trouscaillon, or maybe the (gesture)parrot.I want to say more about this slap-sticky novel, but after spending over seven hours on an airplane with a (gesture) seat that didn't recline, I think I need to step away from the computer for a little while.
I personaggi stessi nascono e sono forgiati dalle parole, che li costruiscono come i Lego con cui giocavamo da bambini, basta cambiare un pezzo perché un uomo divenga donna, una donna divenga uomo, quello non sia più un poliziotto ma divenga un cameriere, o è un cameriere che è diventato poliziotto?
Come dice Zazie la peste, si invecchia.Che ci posso fare se a me piacciono di più altri tipi di letture, quelle in cui le parole sono meno birichine e, pur inseguendosi, si uniscono tra loro secondo un senso logico, magari in un giocondo girotondo?
Tatlı tatlı akan, hızla ilerleyen, hiç sıkmayan bir roman.Zazie adlı küçük, ele-avuca-sığmaz ve azcık-edepsiz.
Bir kızın dayısını ziyaret etmesiyle başlayan eğlenceli olaylar silsilesi.
İlginç karakterler, akıcı ve komik diyaloglar...Yazar Queneau olunca insan oulipo'ya veya 'patafizik'e dair anlatım biçimleri, oyunlar bekliyor ama yok.
Tabi yine de fazlasıyla argo kullanımına ve bazı kelime oyunlarına yer verilerek romanın dili zenginleştirilmiş ve biricikleştirilmiş.Çevirisine gelirsek, ki çok beğendim, sayın Tahsin Yücel argo ifadeleri pek bi' güzel aktarmış dilimize, tadından yenmez.
Bazı bazı anlamsız söz grupları, düşük cümleler, zaman kaymaları var ama ben bunları Tahsin beye bağlamıyorum, bunlara Raymond Queneau'nun denemeleridir deyip geçiveriyorum.Pek tatlı, merak uyandırıcı kısacık bir kitap bu, keyfini sürün.
Zazi v metru jsem četl ve vlaku a obavám se, že tím kniha velmi trpěla.
Taktéž jsem ji četl v anglickém jazyce, takže musím bohužel konstatovat, že by bylo lepší, kdyby Zazi zůstala v metru.Na tuhle klasiku od pana, kteryho neumím skloňovat, jsem se docela těšil.
Ale na druhou stranu se v zimě taky každej rok těším na léto a pak když k tomu dojde, tak mi je vedro a celý je to na hovno.
Tak nějak k tomu teď taky přišel pan Queneau.
Nominativ by mi šel, Peči 1 - gramatika 0.6/10, má mnohem lepší věci teda.
Proberte se lidičky!
Nebo začnu psát slovo lidičky častejc!
Hands down the cutest, funniest li'l thing I have read till now.
They have a feature called "Ask A Book Question," so I did!The first recommendation I got in the answer was Zazie in the Metro.
Queneau was also the founder of OULIPO (a group of experimental writers) about which I know only a tiny bit but at least I have heard of it.So in the wondrous way that reading takes me through ideas and characters and places, I arrived on the first page of Zazie in the Metro to read the first word: "Howcanaystinksotho." The book is a tongue-in-cheek, play-on-words romp through Paris and the French slang of the 1950s.
Zazie responds, "Pension my arse." The reason she wants to be a teacher is actually: "To bitch up the brats." Everyone in this book, from Zazie to Gabriel to the landlord's parrot, is actually kind of an asshole.
But as the great Ms. Clairee Belcher once said:The book is really just a series of random scenes punctuated by smartass dialogue and the occasional man-napping and attempted rape.The dialogue might also be annoying at first because a lot of it is written colloquially."I'll ksplain," says Gabriel.Usually went someone sends me a text like that ("Wot r u doin 2day?"), I want to kill myself.
It is hard to read a book when you do not like the main character. At all.And what if the book is written in some sort of odd Ulysses-ish manner? Not inviting.Only two things kept me reading along: (1) the story is set in (ahhh!) Paris and (2) the book is on our list of 1001 Children’s Books You Must Read Before You Grow Up.So there. I finished it. I didn’t like it. But I finished it.
You gotta love a book about a bitchy, foul-mouthed 11-year old girl, especially one from the French countryside who comes to Paris to visit the subway, only the subways are on strike, so she opens up a can of whoopez-vous ass to every Parisian her little bumply acid tongue can spit out. "Zazie" isn't a great book but I think it's great someone wrote a book about a vile little girl. I'd rather bow to her than Miley Cyrus any day.
"Chiacchieri chiacchieri, non sai fare altro!", ripete il pappagallo circa una volta ogni due pagine. Basta questo a rendere il non-senso di un romanzo che, secondo il suo stesso autore (e meno male che lo ammette) è "un delirio scritto a macchina da un romanziere idiota". Appunto.Piuttosto che leggerlo avrei potuto occupare il temo pulendo gli interstizi tra le mattonelle.
