https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6267715-london-belongs-to-me
It’s a B-novel, epic, but undemanding… near the top of a league of London lite… allowing us to watch its many characters through two years of their lives He’s not wrong, though the idea that a name-check from St Etienne can spring a novel from out of print hell back into the hands of new eager readers is not especially credible.
Norman Collins takes an understated deadpan very English and more than a little sarcastic tone to most of the goings-on, but the love shines through.
Probably my favourite book of all time. At my wedding, my father read out some congratulation cards during his speech. One card reduced me to floods of tears; my parents had signed it from all the characters of this book. It was such a personal and indulgent moment between my parents and me as nobody else recognised the names. It made this book even more special to me. :)
Reading these books helped me to realise how much I enjoy books about London.
The second world war looms as each of the varied and memorable characters contend with their own lives and preoccupations.
Their stories are variously funny, tragic, exciting, interesting, and the interweaving narratives kept me engrossed throughout.If you enjoy well written stories about London, about Britain in the 1940s, and the vagaries of human nature, then it's hard to imagine you wouldn't enjoy this book.
By the end I felt the characters were old friends and I wanted to continue to read about their lives.
In a nutshell, I loved it and didn't want it to end.
The stories part and interweave and drop and pick up between characters in exactly the manner of a soap opera and just as addictively, so that the domestic drama of "will Mrs Josser like Doris's fiance's parents?" is as compelling as the storyline of a murder.
(view spoiler)[He ends up in prison as the war rages, not mentioned for many chapters, and when we come back it's in these terms:The plain fact is that there's been too much happening for Percy to be remembered.
(hide spoiler)]The other incredible thing about this is the setting on the eve of war.
As dusk falls, the Park in the background becomes vast and mysterious, and the gas lamps that light your way along the main paths dwindle into the distance like lanterns in Illyria. But somehow or other it remains London, with the buses that cruise up Park Lane twinkling through the railings, and the air filled with the roar and rustle of innumerable wheels. Yes, it's London all right... Or rather, that's how it was in 1939.  Maybe no-one's idea of a five-star book although maybe a four-and-a-
I can tell when I've really liked something I've read, by the number of excerpts I want to include in a review; what emerges is that an excerpt can tell its own story so much better than a reviewer.
This novel doesn't really capture London, or the War, nor does it try for that.
It attempts to capture Londoners, though, in all their likeably persnickety variety, emerging from the dream of peace-time.
There are also a lot of visits to Lyon’s Tea Houses, which I particularly like, as we don’t have those anymore and they do seem a perfect symbol of lost London.Norman Collins (an author I’ve never encountered before),weaves together these narratives magnificently well, creating believable characters – with both flaws and virtues – and having them deal with life in a way which seems so real, you can barely detect the author’s hand.
Wasn't the London of the 1930s, with its all night cafes, rather a racier place than many of us live in today?), even the placing of the book in the era 1938-1940, with tremendous historical events influencing the stories, takes nothing away from the urgency of wondering how poor Mrs Vizzard (so tightly buttoned!) is faring with the unscrupulous Mr Squales in Dulcimer Street; how poor Doreen puts up with Doris stealing her boyfriends at the studio flat in Adelaide Road (I jest - of the minor characters, dreadful Doreen is such a favourite of mine!); how poor old Connie will cope with being raided at The Moonrakers; and whether Mr Puddy's food cupboard will hold up.I re-read this book every five years or so, and never grow bored with it.
It took me quite a while to get into this book and even once I did, I didn't particularly like any of the characters - except poor, put-on Mr Josser.Connie was an annoying busybody beyond compare, Mrs Josser was mean, Mr Puddy's comedy fat-man voice grated and Percy deserved what he got.But then...
I worried about whether they'd survive the war, I wanted them to be happy and I wanted to hear how their stories ended.This really is a brilliantly-written book - I'm just annoyed it took me the best part of six weeks to make any progress in it, because I devoured the second half in less than three days!
One of the most purely entertaining novels I've read and enjoyed - it may lack the intellectual or philosophical depth that would qualify London Belongs to Me as a true classic, it has a warmth and belief in humanity that makes it compelling and exciting.There's also a great cast of characters, ordinary people, who reside at No.10 Dulcimer St in Kennington.
Reading some of the other reviews of this novel, I can see those that enjoyed it as much as I did have a great affection for the novel - I can see why.
Description: It is 1938 and the prospect of war hangs over London. At the lodging-house at 10 Dulcimer Street, Mr Josser returns home with the clock he has received as a retirement gift. The other residents include flashy young mechanic Percy Boon, whose foray into stolen cars descends into something much, much worse.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BLcp9...SE11 equates to today's Vauxhall/Kennington/Oval. Alistair Sims was fab, what with his comb over ending in a kiss-curl.
This was written in 1945 and is a sprawling soap opera of a book, detailing the lives of the inhabitants of one london house, the ficional 10 Dulcimer Street.Collins does a peerless job with characterisation.
These are the moral core of the book and the sense of neighbourlyness and community emminates from this family.Mrs Boon and her son, Percy are a bit of the opposite.
As are the misunderstanding that happen between characters and scenarios that almist always seem to come with a happy ending.Effortless to read, great characterisation and a book that shows that society is moving backwards, rather than forwards.
A masterful visualisation of London under the shadow of war, told through a series of interlinked vignettes that follow the lives of the various inhabitants of a south London terrace, the book (Like all of Collin's work) is infused with a light humour based on pitch-perfect observation and a fantastic eye for the most banal details, enthralling throughout and managing the difficult task of making the reader invest the same amount of emotion in a scene about a broken bicycle as a climactic murder trial. Highly recommended.
The Jossers, an ordinary family of the lower middle classes, are the central characters, but the house in which they live, 10 Dulcimer Street, Kennington, is the equal core of the story.We are introduced to the pliable Mr J on the day of his retirement when he is about to take leave of the City firm he has worked in as a ledger clerk for all his working life.
But he is on his way home to a family where he has a much more elevated status, and a small circle of neighbours, to whom he is an eminently respectable person.His home is in rooms rented from the leaseholder of 10 Dulcimer Street, the ever anxious widow, Mrs Vizzard.
Published in 1945, this is a tale of a motley collection of characters living in a small boarding house in the Kennington area of London as war looms.
It could be said to be a soap opera of the time - mostly day-to-day life but with a few shocking events thrown in for good measure - but it was also a tale of London at the time.This was another author I was unaware of and probably would have remained so but for Christopher Fowler's Book of Forgotten Authors.
'Slab of life' seems more appropriate, and not just because of its bulk.London Belongs to Me concerns the tenants of a South London lodging house between Christmas 1938 and Christmas 1940.
Our familiarity with their domestic ups-and-downs means that when “the long shadow of war” finally catches up with them, and the young men start disappearing from the streets, it feels like an earthquake.This is a book which pays many courtesies to its reader.
The narrative voice is pally and confiding, sometimes addressing us directly as we peek behind the blackout curtains of Dulcimer Street.
The era of 1920's to 1950's fascinates me for I want to understand what people of those times were thinking, how they were interacting and living, what they were discussing and worrying about.
Politically they were turbulent times internationally, having just finished with World War 1 and then unfortunately building up and experiencing World War 2.
This book, starting in 1938 in London , seemed just what I wanted to read.
It wasn't.
Pure soap opera for 700+ pages.
I had hoped that it would improve as I worked through each chapter.
There was no depth to any individual.

I was no nearer understanding what it was like to live in this place than when I was rusticated in the provinces.If I’d expected London Belongs to Me to lift the lid on the home of Pepys and Johnson, of Churchill and Marx, or of Jack the Ripper and child prostitutes, to reveal seven million Michael Caines in their natural habitat, or to lay bare the beating hearts of a unique human species, I’d have been disappointed.
The first is the inordinate expense, effort, and time required to move around the place, especially between home and work, which seems odd given that the whole purpose of a big city is to make it easier for workers and employers to access each other.
London Belongs to Me opens in 1938, in the run-up to the Second World War. Its narrative concerns a group of disparate characters who share a rented house in Kennington.
That it sold hugely is a testimony to the writer’s skill in portraying his flawed cast of characters and their beleaguered city so vividly as well as his readers’ hunger for books that reflected their own, often harrowing experiences.The characters are captivating but none bigger than the setting, London, the train, trams, and offices, to the tea warehouse, nightclubs, this is where London comes alive.
Mrs Vizzard owns the house, lives in the basement, worries about the new tenant, the foreign-looking Mr Squales, and consoles herself with spiritualism; Mr and Mrs Josser live on the first floor with their daughter who wants to move out and room with a friend but doesn't dare tell her mother; Mrs Boon lives in two rooms upstairs and dotes on her selfish, stupid, vain son Percy who's got an eye for the ladies, a love of excitement, and a powerful sense of entitlement; upstairs are Mr Puddy, who lives for his next meal, and Connie, a superannuated nightclub hostess with bleached hair, light fingers, and a canary.
Not a great work of literature, but unusual in its perspective of the Second World War, as you can see from the notes.
The book is "fun," really, which is an odd way to experience a war novel.
The characters are humorous and familiar as they could only be in a book about the WWII that is set in 1938-40 and was published in 1945.
Though there are dark moments in the novel, vignettes that brought a tear to my eye, those moments are poignant not because of the sociopolitical context but because the book is a long and engaging soap opera.
I was quite attached to the characters.
I gave this cruiserweight novel the regulation 100 pages grace.
It starts off amicably enough, a soap opera combobulation that moulds around you like a comfortable sofa.
However, it would take more than mere amiability to avoid the bed sores that 700 odd pages were liable to inflict.
Around page 80 a few jokes, some real crackers, come out of nowhere and then Mr Collins really gets into his stride.
Suddenly, he blindsides the reader with a wrench into sixth gear.
The cosy Georgian Terrace, boarding house potboiler is abruptly transfigured into a gripping thriller, scooting along right up until the final pages.
I was put off for years by the length of this book.
What a shame.
It was wonderful.
A tapestry of everyday events involving ordinary people, yet so completely moving.
The dignity these people brought to the struggle just to plod on and get by in a world not kind to those who have little.
And there is something so poignant about the quiet, understated heroism shown by these decent people as they battled to get through the growing terror of war.
With people like this, Hitler never stood a chance.
Anyone who enjoys the backdrop of mid-20th C London, especially Hamilton fans, will love this.
Just a slow soap opera. Boring. Should have abandoned it earlier.
This is one of the few books that I would actually give a five star rating to, for the simple reason that it deserves it.
I didn't expect this book to be half as fascinating as it turned out to be.
For some reason or another, I was expecting short stories - I instead got intertwining stories about a bunch of people, all different, all extremely interesting, all connected by their residence - No. 10 Dulcimer Street.
It's a very interesting read.
But I will say that it is a worthwhile read, simply because the people of these stories are not extraordinary - they're ordinary.
My all time favourite novel ... Ok, not particularly well written or challenging but it's an intriguing insight into (pre) war time London and social status within the working classes ... basically it's a soap opera and I found myself engrossed in the lives of the characters that lodged under one roof and how theirs lives revolved around each other. This tome is one that I revisit every few years almost like catching up with old friends ...
Very much of its time (it was published in 1945, 5-6 years after the events it portrays) but an engaging enough slice of London life around the outbreak of World War II. Christmas Day 1938 to Christmas Day 1939 and to Christmas Day 1940 are cycles like any other: more human events than usual, perhaps, but people fall off the edge of the spinning wheel whether or not there is a war and there is as much here about everyday being as there is about global influences.
This was well-appreciated by our book group as a ‘hidden gem’ and earned high marks for delivering an ambitious and unpretentious character study. Is it high art? Is it melodrama? We settled on labeling it as ‘something else’, satisfied for it to retain its mystery as a product of its time and a homily to life as a Londoner to which we could all relate. 4.5 stars.
I was hoping for London itself to be a more prominent character in the book, but no, it was just about a shallow, unlikable cast of characters living in 10 Dulcimer Street. The writing is completely bland and artless, and the writer's sense of smug male superiority and self importance is never far from the surface.
We started with a moan about the length of the book (over 700 pages) but once you start reading the story takes over. A universal favourite with my book club it brought us all back to a time before any of us were born interweaving several stories about life in London during the Blitz
