https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6324725-politics-and-the-english-language
In fact, he explicitly states:"I have not here been considering the literary use of language, but merely language as an instrument for expressing and not for concealing or preventing thought." He also says:“It has nothing to do with correct grammar and syntax, which are of no importance so long as one makes one's meaning clear.”For the record, those rules (which he explicitly says are NOT for literary contexts) are:(i) Never use a metaphor, simile, or other figure of speech which you are used to seeing in print.(ii) Never use a long word where a short one will do.(iii) If it is possible to cut a word out, always cut it out.(iv) Never use the passive where you can use the active.(v) Never use a foreign phrase, a scientific word, or a jargon word if you can think of an everyday English equivalent.(vi) Break any of these rules sooner than say anything outright barbarous.Rewriting this essay, let alone any of Orwell's novels, according to these six rules would have odd and sometimes ugly results.
Things like the continuance of British rule in India, the Russian purges and deportations, the dropping of the atom bombs on Japan, can indeed be defended, but only by arguments which are too brutal for most people to face, and which do not square with the professed aims of the political parties.
Probably, therefore, he will say something like this:‘While freely conceding that the Soviet regime exhibits certain features which the humanitarian may be inclined to deplore, we must, I think, agree that a certain curtailment of the right to political opposition is an unavoidable concomitant of transitional periods, and that the rigors which the Russian people have been called upon to undergo have been amply justified in the sphere of concrete achievement.’- The inflated style itself is a kind of euphemism.
Orwell's view is that Modern English has become a mess of abstractness, inaccuracies and slovenliness and this essay attempts to relay exactly where we all went so wrong.Instead of using fresh and individual terms, we pepper our writing with well-known phrases, "which have lost all evocative power and are merely used because they save people the trouble of inventing phrases for themselves." Language has also suffered from inadequate storytelling, which has more to do with the subject of the story than the teller of the tale.
Political writing, in particular, relies on an abstract style to make any commentary as diplomatic as possible.
Not a long book, yet it’s packed with instructions and ideas of how Modern English is regressing and devolving and being absurd.
Orwell stats that one must not use foreign words, or use verbal false limbs And the use of meaningless words He wants the English used to be assessable, concise.
Never use a long word where a short one will doIf it is possible to cut a word out, always cut it out Never use the passive where you can use the active Never use a foreign phrase, a scientific word or a jargon word if you can think of an everyday English equivalentBreak any of these rules sooner than say anything outright barbarous.
This essay is basically about people using the English language incorrectly and why all political writing is bad, plus, a review of Mein Kampf!
He says that if you think if writing a big, complicated word but there is a plain simple English version of the word, you should use the simple version, e.g. if I were to use the word "perambulate" (which means walking back and forwards) in a composition, I should just use "walk back and forwards" as "perambulate", is to Orwell, pretentious and unnecessary.
One of the greatest essays I have ever read about the relation between language and politics. A must-read for writers, and any one interested in deconstructing political discourse.Orwell's precise, clear and simple language is an example of how theoretical and political discourse should be rather than the meaningless and pretentious endless formations of misused jargon we encounter nowadays in newspapers and books.
Third, to understand the theories he discussed , he applied them to real situations in modern English.
Also, he pointed out that writing English is worth reading without using metaphors, similes, idioms, or obsolete words which vague the meanings of our sentences.
But for readers whose intentions are the same: to develop their intelligence, they elevate literature to a higher level of thinking.
I would believe that what he really wants to point out in this essay is that connection with readers is the most important elements of writing regardless of what concept you have got.
Considering what a short essay this is, it seemed like a good time to read it.Orwell's rules for writing here are specifically with respect to politics and not the literary use of language.
Orwell even confesses that he tends to do the same things that he writes against in this essay.
The impact of the passive voice, ornate language and dense vocabulary on political commentary is that it enables a person to exercise doublethink, where an idea can be right when applied to one thing and wrong to when applied to another thing.
Orwell clearly states that the rules are for when instinct fails.
He lists almost every trick or error that people use, in the English language, when they don't want to structure their words or phrases properly.
It is at this point that the special connection between politics and the debasement of language becomes clear." The other, more famous, "rules" that he gives are at the end of the essay: "...one can often be in doubt about the effect of a word or a phrase, and one needs rules that one can rely on when instinct fails.
Orwell describes how language can affect thought.
I believe what Orwell is talking about is true for more than just politics and for more than just the English language.
Fictional and non-fictional writings are also suffering from the use of bad language.
The two languages that I speak fluently (i.e. Armenian and Arabic) also suffer from needless metaphors and vague expressions.
I think this essay should have been called "Language and Thought." It will appeal to those who have interest in linguistics and "know what they are talking about".
Language is important, it is not just a combination of sounds as I used to think. A poor language implies poor ideas which imply a weak society, and poor ideas lead to a poor language... Orwell will always make me think, this is my first essay by him and surely not the last. Read it read it read it !
De como a linguagem terá sempre um propósito e de como as palavras devem ser tratadas com respeito e em consideração pelo seu significado.Encontro-me neste momento em vias de iniciar a escrita de uma tese.
Isto porque, parece que recorro a uma linguagem comum.
Porém, parece que os académicos (especialmente os de língua portuguesa) julgam que para um trabalho ser intelectualmente sólido e relevante, este deve estar dependente da sua complexidade e ornamentação linguística.
Gosto de acreditar que escrevo para todos.
Escrevo para revelar a minha verdade e gosto que esta seja clara.
Many writers do not take the time to craft new sentences with select words that specifically get the writer’s meaning across.
The writer should use the fewest and shortest words required and have the intended meaning already mapped before the writing process begins.
If the writer is willing to take the time to truly craft original sentences with active selection of appropriate words his or her writing will improve.The biggest impact that this essay had on me was Orwell’s critique of phrases.
The writer must ensure meaning through the use of words alone.
Free download available at Faded Page.This work is in the Canadian public domain, but may be under copyright in some countries.
If the book is under copyright in your country, do not download or redistribute this file.I made the proofing (P2) of this book for DP-Canada and it will be published by Faded Page.The essays with publication dates are:Politics and the English language (1946)Politics vs.
You know when you stumble onto a passage in writing that articulates your thoughts for you better than you are able?
Now working in development, the essay feels like some combination of vaccination, antidote and prescription sunglasses.An excerpt: "Now that I have made this catalogue of swindles and perversions, let me give another example of the kind of writing that they lead to.
I am going to translate a passage of good English into modern English of the worst sort.
Freely available online to read: https://faculty.washington.edu/rsoder...RTC when I've had time to think.
I'll just leave this unrated as it is so short and old.It was an interesting read, giving me something to think about and mostly wondering what he would say to the language of today's English speaking politics.
It is intriguing to note how applicable this essay still is to the current times.
As Orwell implicates, often these very people don’t have a clear idea or vision of what it is they are talking about and so will use long protracted convoluted words (like protracted and convoluted) to describe what is on their minds.
Orwell also writes that we are caught in the habit of using certain phrases that have entered our language simply because they are easily understood and just roll of the tongue and also make you look cultured and erudite and in more cases than not; a bit of a bellend.
This guide deals with language - spoken or written - and how to express oneself clearly in words.
Using examples of vacuous political writing, Orwell critically shreds them, driving home the importance of clarity and specificity in language.
Unlike that book, however, Orwell's guide is subjective: he is fearless in expressing his views on not just language, but also politics, war and society.
If thought corrupts language, language can also corrupt thought.” On one level this continued relevance is worrying, given that Orwell was writing in the immediate aftermath of the Second World War when the manipulation of language in the service of political cynicism had been taken (and in places like the Soviet Union still was being taken) to the worst imaginable extremes.
But at the same time the essay’s central thesis is energizing (to use an expression that will have Orwell vomiting in his grave) to anybody who still cares about the written word.
......to make pretentiousness unfashionable.   The very essence of this majestic essay of George Orwell is to elucidate and help the general (interested) mass to understand how far language as a tool is used repeatedly to manipulate, subvert and to lie in the realm of politics. Or, if one needs to be more precise, this essay is about how language is being used by those in power to gain their desired ends, which in most cases is morally unjust, without ever irking the masses whom they profess t
The very essence of this majestic essay of George Orwell is to elucidate and help the general (interested) mass to understand how far language as a tool is used repeatedly to manipulate, subvert and to lie in the realm of politics.
Or, if one needs to be more precise, this essay is about how language is being used by those in power to gain their desired ends, which in most cases is morally unjust, without ever irking the masses whom they profess to serve.History and contemporary politics stand witness to all the injustice, violence that is done by glossing it over under a veneer that appeases the conscience of the larger mass.
Προβληματίζομαι με τον Όργουελ. Ή κάτι έχασα ή διάβασα άλλο πράγμα από τους υπόλοιπους που έχουν δώσει τόσο καλές κριτικές. Αστεράκια θα μπουν σαν το ξαναδιαβάσω γιατί δεν θα θελα από βιασύνη να μου χαλάσω την εικόνα που έχω τόσα χρόνια γι' αυτόν.
the media motivated by profits hs turned fiction into facts( sensationalism, sting operations, anonymous sources( Iraq war) The language of silence is also rampant in the society( in words of Pinter: nothing happened, nothing at all) .
Fear also haunts us when there is no effort taken to help people facing accidents on the road.
There are blasphemy laws, mob violence, the angry exchange in social media, the creation of the other ( by the state, society etc), bullying etc.Words as is used now is corrupt.
The simplification of words may bring out things clearly in the verbal sphere.
At its worst, bad language, such as political language, can be used to manipulate events and ideas from sounding less heinous and corrupt than they are - he uses the example of the Soviet regime’s practice of murdering dissenters to remain in power.
“Political language - and with variations this is true of all political parties, from Conservatives to Anarchists - is designed to make lies sound truthful and murder respectable, and to give an appearance of solidity to pure wind.” (p.20)Orwell also sets out his rules for good writing which centres around his idea of simplifying language to make what you are trying to say more clear and understood to the reader.
He goes on to argue that the excess of syllables and scarcity of meaning in modern language is outright harmful and though, many decades later, we've become quite used to it, his point is poignant and perhaps the more relevant.He sums up his grievances in 6 rules of writing – the last of which, he adds honestly, is that they should be broken as soon as necessary.
This essay nicely complements The Elements of Style, and I'll keep both firmly in mind when writing!
The title essay here is the one piece of writing that I most want everybody in the world to read.
The weasel-wording and deliberate distortions of today's politicians, news media and adverts are just as poisonous as they were in Orwell's day.
While their techniques are more sophisticated than ever, the underlying tactics are still very much the same as those Orwell tears apart here.
As long as people fail to arm themselves against these things, democracy can never run smoothly.I also rate 'Why I Write', collected here, extremely highly - that's pretty much why I write, too.'So long as I remain alive and well I shall continue to feel strongly about prose style, to love the surface of the earth, and to take a pleasure in solid objects and scraps of useless information.'
In this essay, George Orwell warns us that using overly complicated language and tired phrases can obscure meaning. This is especially true in the world of politics. He provides several good examples of political language that obscure actual meaning. One particularly powerful example he provides is pacification, which actually means killing people and destroying their villages. I think this is an important essay to read in this age of "alternate facts."
Orwell read my mind with this one. I have always hated political jargon for its vagueness. Orwell's idea of precise diction also applies to other fields. Diction is the only reason that we can't reach an agreement in fields like natural philosophy and economics. I don't like all of his work, but this was one of the best essays that I've ever read.
Anyone who writes, reads, or cares about the meaning of words needs to read this. It's freely available online, so you have no excuses not to read it immediately.
