https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50177.The_Children
“The young face mounting towards him continued to bend over the baby, the girl’s frail shoulders to droop increasingly under their burden, as the congestion ahead of her forced the young lady to maintain her slanting position halfway up the liner’s flank.”Many Edith Wharton novels are known for their exploration of old New York society into which she was born and within which she lived for many years.
Martin is endlessly pulled between these two different worlds, the world of polite old New York that is represented by Rose Sellars and the less conventional world of the children.
Edith Wharton wrote about things like telegrams, ball gowns, steamer ships.
(Though receiving a telegram might be highly romantic and sort of fun.) But Wharton was able to make her readers care about those things; so much so that readers (no matter what their past or present holds, no matter who they are or who their daddy is) can actually relate to her characters.
Martin Boyne, an older gentleman, meets them for the first time on a ship and becomes so involved in the family dynamic that he actually falls a little in love with Judith.
If you loved Noel Streatfeild's Ballet Shoes as a child, and went on to smile at the bitter-sweetness of I Capture the Castle and Cold Comfort Farm, read this next.
It is the story of a 46-year-old bachelor, Martin Boyne, who finds himself tangled in the business of the seven children of the Wheater family, stepbrothers and stepsisters trying to stay together in the middle of the storm of their parents' numerous divorces and remarriages.
According to the book's back cover, Martin's heart was "captured" by the eldest Wheater, 15-year-old Judith, who is the mother hen of the pack.
Just like in The Age of Innocence, Wharton makes the reader understand the feelings of a man who loves someone while knowing there is no way he could ever be with her.
The Children tells the story of forty-something year old Martin Boyne and his relationship with the Wheater children he met during his travel on a ship.
As we can find in her other stories, Wharton tells a story about an impossible relationship.
Wharton’s skill in delivering a heartfelt story can be seen in the way she tries to picture out Boyne’s true sincere feelings.
The relationship between the children is very touching and quite entertaining.Still a good book to check out if you are a Wharton’s fan.
Kept hoping for a happy ending as I read it, even though I know that's not Wharton's style. I'm not talking rainbows and lollipops happy, just a runner-up kinda happiness. But Wharton's characters only have one vision of perfect happiness, and when they can't realize it, they pretty much stop trying for any.Still a well-written and realistic look at people in an escalating set of circumstances. Can't help being anything but bittersweet.(BTW, the cover art on the copy I have is absolutely ridiculous and has nothing to do with the novel.)
Tristezza, bellezza, solennità. Un libro meraviglioso, una bestia strana, un esemplare da serraglio unico e irripetibile.
Through all of the changes that do occur over the course of the novel, the tone of the story is marked by an underlying sense of stasis, reinforced by Martin’s own inability to come to terms with his feelings for the young Judith Wheater.
However, I think the weak point of Wharton’s novel is her portrayal of the characters, especially Judith.
The images of Judith the reader is given throughout the novel are conflicting, perhaps one could argue, to reflect the conflict of Martin’s own crisis of feeling for Judith.
The energy of "the children" adds much joy and humor to this oeuvre, yet the adults (especially the narrator and the parents of the children) are as deeply flawed as any that Wharton has written about.
The story is basically the narrator trying to keep together a group of seven children while their parents do everything they can to split them up.
In addition, the narrator is dealing with a love relationship of his own, which is greatly hindered by his involvement in the affairs of the children.
Poor Martin Boyne.
He's a bachelor who agrees to watch over 7 children who are variously related to each other and want to remain together while their immature and selfish parents and step parents divorce and remarry.
Martin gives up an appropriate engagement to a mature and understanding woman to fall in love with the eldest of the 7 who is only 15.
Of course, nothing works out and Boyne goes off to work in Rio. When he returns the kids are scattered.
I suppose this was all tragic and scandalous in 1928 but today it just seems silly and improbable.
I found this book quite fascinating. It held my interest all the way through, as I could not decide "what would happen" with any of the story arcs. The children's personalities are so well described that you can practically see them. The motivation of the central character (Martin Boyne) is a little harder to understand. I'm not sure it deserves the full five stars, but it is more than a four, so.... Had it been available, I would have picked 4 1/2!
Not my favorite of hers.
Y sobre todo no puede evitar sentir una cierta atracción por Judith, una adolescente que cuando están presentes los niños se comportan como una mujer adulta pero cuando esta a solas con él ve a esa niña que aún no ha cumplido los 16 años.Martín que a sus 46 años ha decidido que ha llegado el momento de casarse con la mujer de la que ha estado enamorado durante años.
Unos niños que ven como los matrimonios de sus padres se rompen trayendo nuevas parejas y con ellos nuevos hijos y que tienen que hacerse su propio núcleo familiar.El libro se lee con mucha facilidad, con una narración fluida Edith Wharton nos mostrará la soledad que vive Martín, que en un principio parece que los niños llenan....
There is something very unsavory going on here. I'm not quite sure what to make of it yet, except to say that it is expertly crafted.
Am re-reading it and somehow can't enjoy it as much as before because EACH TIME Rose Sellars pops out the only thing I can think of is how manipulative calculative perfectly machiavellian woman she is.
But now it feels to me that the way Wharton presents the interaction between Martin and Rose is purposely done to shove this fact to reader.
I love how Judith is sometime a woman but also a child and how it baffles Martin, especially as he proposed to her.This book is not only about the Wheater children, though.
The story involves a civil engineer, Martin Boyne, who is aboard a ship on his way to visit Mrs. Rose Sellars, who has taken a summer home in the Dolomites.
Judith has decided that she will do her best to keep the children together by the time she meets Martin Boyne.Reading the book, you become aware of the fact that neither parent is all that invested in their children.
Boyne involves Mrs. Sellars in his attempts to help the children, and this has a definite effect on their relationship.This was a great read.
Interesting and significant that Wharton chose a male protagonist for this story.The book has four sections, which includes among other things the following: The first, a wonderful fall down the rabbit hole.
The fourth, Wharton satirizes various overboard practices then coming in vogue for the 'proper' raising of children including the American eugenic movement (Yup, for real!).Wharton biographer Hermoine Lee calls this book Wharton's most neglected.Interesting to compare the Wheater children (creative and not well) with the Fulmers children (creative and healthy) briefly described near the end of Glimpses of the Moon.Characters: Martin Boyne, the Wheaters: Judy, Terry, Blanca, Zinnie, Bun, Beechy, Chip; Scopy, Mrs (Rose) Sellars, Joyce & Cliffe Wheater, Zinnia LaCrosse, Mr Dobree.
Bachelor Martin Boyle is captivated by a group of children he meets on a cruise ship.
Wharton skilfully describes the social mores and attitudes of these upper class Americans as they wend their thoughtless way across Europe, and brilliantly captures the mixture of cynicism and innocence their parenting creates in their children.
Martin's ambivalent feelings for the oldest child, Judith, are sympathetically dealt with - Wharton succeeds in creating understanding for his confusion, even while revealing his self delusion.Funny, poignant, sharply observed and brilliantly written, this was a very enjoyable story.
This is the only Wharton story I can think of that has children as the main characters; she's surprisingly good at writing them.
The children's parents, all jet-setting superficial types who have married and subsequently divorced each other, use the children as pawns in divorce settlements and suchlike--only the children themselves want to stay together as a ragtag little family.
I always want to fling Wharton books across the room when I'm done with them, and this was no exception.
For all the lack of a happy ending (like this comes as a surprise), it's an almost upbeat book.
I loved this novel - up until the final paragraph, but that has more to do with the era in which I live, than in the plot.Written in 1928, it deals with a bachelor who falls in love with a "blended" family of seven children and eventually, and specifically, with the eldest sister.
It amazed me how rife it was with what we think of as modern issues - children of divorced parents, dysfunctional families, child psychology, decadent lifestyles and a May/December quasi-romance.

A late Wharton in which she initially drifts into Jamesian prose.
Martin, an Edwardian Humbert Humbert, becomes enchanted with a group of “hotel” children loosely kept together by the eldest, a girl of 15.
Martin is intrigued (and soon enchanted) by the Wheater children, and most particularly the determined and naive eldest.
He is also in a long-term relationship with Rose, but as he becomes more involved with the children, he postpones his long-overdue marriage.
Rose finally recognizes that his attachment to “philanthropy” is greater than his attachment to her.
As Martin continues to delude himself, Rose’s vision clears.
Although not as famous as the titles we normally identify with Wharton, this is an excellent book.
Written in the late 1920s, this novel presents a well drawn picture of the society of rich Americans living abroad.
Having discarded the rigid mores of earlier New York society, these characters lead lives full of possessions and little regard for conventions.
Wharton focuses on their attitudes toward child raising.
The narrator, an outsider with more old fashioned moral standards, describes the feckless parents and the children they have left to be raised by nannies and nurses under the eye of the oldest child.
Beautiful.
I love how Wharton manages to capture sentiments we all have, but can't describe…:"His apostrophe took in the mighty landscape which overhung him; the sense of peace flowed in on him from those great fastnesses of sun and solitude, with which the little low-ceilinged room, its books and flowers, the bit of needle-work in the armchair, the half-written letter on the desk, had the humble kinship of quietness and continuity.
'I'd forgotten that anything had any meaning,' he thought to himself as he let the spell of the place weave its noiseless net about him" (137).
She's such a great writer!
I don't think I could ever tire of her work.
Martin Boyne befriends a loose family of unruly children on board a ship and gets far more than he bargained for when he's drawn into their family affairs and starts to fall in love with the eldest, fifteen-year-old Judith.
Regrettably, Wharton just doesn't do children well; their precocity is faintly repulsive.
Fortunately, once she's finished introducing the children, it becomes much more interesting, as she trains her piercing gaze on the shenanigans of their much-married parents.
Much of the book is more comic and less scathing than her best, yet the relationship between Martin and Judith is very well done, bittersweet and complex.
I always enjoy the Victorian Age as a setting and Edith Wharton's raw view of the upper class.
She shows their naked truths (and lies) that sit just beneath the gilded exterior of their mannered world.
However, they all end the same way.
The hero or heroine is doomed to long for the unrequited love.
The unattainable is kept from them by the rules and propriety of society.
I love these books because they use a larger and more vivid vocabulary than current fiction.
I just wish she would have written something with a happy ending.
This is the best book I have read in ages.
If you have ever wondered what happened to the children of the kind of vapid socialites that appeared in The Great Gatsby (published three years before this book), here is an answer.
Wharton is, in many ways, just as cynical and embittered about the 'jazz age', but she applies a sly humour that makes this book much more fun than Fitzgerald's.I would recommend this book to everyone!
I have read some of Wharton's earlier work (Age of Innocence, House of Mirth), etc.), but this later novel came as a revelation to me and I will definitely look for more.

"Tutto ciò che riguardava i piccoli Wheater e i loro congiunti lo interessava con simpatia, soprattutto la fragilità del legame che li univa e la loro determinazione a che non fosse spezzato".I ragazzi, titolo originale The Children (1928), è considerato uno dei romanzi minori della scrittrice americana Edith Wharton, pur affrontando un tema innovativo per l’epoca: il destino incerto dei figli di agiate famiglie “allargate” e disfunzionali.La mia recensione continua qui: http://www.sololibri.net/I-ragazzi-Ed...
Wharton shows incredible insight into the nature of human interaction. Her descriptions of looks and her rendering of dialogue really drew me into the inner life of the narrator. At first he seems to be just that, a narrator/onlooker, but by the end it's apparent that the story is all his. The children end up as representatives of hope, possibility, unconditional love, and lost dreams. The final scene is heartbreaking.
