https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153784.First_Test
For her Lioness Quartet, Circle of Magic books, and The Immortals series, I was refreshing my memory, but with the Protector of the Small series, it was almost like reading them for the first time.
I read this series only once, when I was a preteen, and I had honestly forgotten just how much I love Kel.At first glance, the story of Keladry of Mindalen seems like a rewrite of Tamora Pierce's first series, The Lioness Quartet, which features a spunky girl named Alanna who dresses as a boy in order to train as a knight.
Kel perseveres against every trial imaginable, and while at times she can seem a bit too mature (she's only 10 in this one!), she is unique and refreshing in a world of cliche.
Kel reversed the spear and cut back, dragging the blade down.
And he has her back at every turn.There is no romance between them in this first book (view spoiler)[(or really any of them since he never knows about her crush).
Tamora Pierce set the standard for strong female warriors in YA.
The trials and tribulations Kel faces coupled with the excellent array of characters sets up for an amazing series debut.
However, although Alanna, and as I discovered, multiple other characters from the author’s other books in the same world are mentioned, I did not feel as though there was something I was missing to enjoy this particular story.Actually, because Alanna was mentioned so many times, I now feel very interested in picking Pierce’s Song of the Lioness up.
Though it’s true there are some spoilers in this series, so I would say read it after Song of the Lioness, or before, if it’s not that problematic for you.
It wasn’t for me.This is the story of a girl who wants to become a knight.
3rd Read: 12/16/2016Edit: Raised this up to 5 Stars, because after discussing it with Rachel E. Carter, I've decided that yes, Kel is the awesomest. :)I had forgotten how good this series is. It's hard to decide which is my favorite, this one or Alanna.2nd Read: 7/20/2015Original Read: 11/11/2012
Mini review:Trigger warning: Animal abuseMinor spoilers ahead!DNFTamora Pierce is an author I have heard off. On a whim I decided to try on of her books. Unfortunately this book didn't work for me.In the beginning (the first chapter) Kel stops these boys from drowning kittens. While attempting to rescue the kittens a monster comes. And starts to eat them. I couldn't make myself read anymore. I felt sick to my stomach. I do still recommend it. As Kel's a very strong character and I have a feeling others will enjoy this more.
I started this series with the thought that it was going to be a do over of Pierce's previous, successful Alanna the Lioness Quartet, which followed a girl (named Alanna, of course) who dressed like a boy and took her twin brother's place in page training while he took her place in magic school (not dressed as a girl).
My biggest problem was that Kel is a 10 year old girl, but at no time did she actually act like it.
My other gripe is: (view spoiler)[ I rolled my eyes for the entire ending - the idea that the elite kings guard would take along 20 ten year old kids on a dangerous mission is just absurd.
Again - it's not a bad book- I think I would have loved it if I read it when I was 10.
I would recommend this one to my 10 year old niece.
This is the kind of pure good straight-up heroine that it's always great to come back to, because you never doubt her; she works for her goals and keeps them always in mind.
She gains an excellent group of friends over the course of her year on probation, and that's what helps this series be more than just an Alanna Redux.
Kel is a heroine to root for and look up to, and if I had my way young girls everywhere would be reading about her adventures instead of about sparklepires and the like.
That's something this series gets very right: even the best of intentions don't always translate practically.)Kel comes in pretty upset at Jon, because she doesn't know about any of this political jockeying, and she's still awed by his speech after dinner the first day:"Each one of you is a gem, all the more precious because we lost so many.
I've thought about that line for over a decade now, ever since I first read this book.I like when Neal demonstrates he's been to a university, too, and that he's older than Kel. Though maybe it's a little strange he's friends with a ten-year-old?
This book changed my childhood.
I had read stories about lady knights before--about women dressing as men, fighting the odds, and changing the world.
But this story is different.
Kel doesn't dress in drag, she doesn't hide herself, she doesn't try to change the world.
She is my number one female character in a YA novel, and that has not changed in a long long time.I highly recommend this book to anyone and everyone.
To people who want to feel better about humanity, people who want female characters who are realistic and soulful, or just people who love knighthood, battles, and magic.A+++
I'm happy to report, however, that although there are similarities between Alanna and Kel, their experiences are extremely different and Kel's story expands upon and continues a lot of the themes that were present in Song of the Lioness.I wrote about this a little bit already, but I have to reiterate it here because it makes me so happy.
Both girls deal with bullies as pages; however, Alanna's bully was personal while the bullying Kel faces is sexist and institutional.
I recommend this book to two (not mutually exclusive) groups of people: kids who love Harry Potter and are looking for something to read next, and girls looking for a heroine who is not just a badass, but an Interesting Person to boot.
So as a quiet bookish girl, a heroine who was soft-spoken and even-tempered, and who was also an iron-willed warrior, was delightfully refreshing.
Other stories may have done more to spark my imagination, but Keladry gave me something even my beloved Tolkien couldn't: an example of female strength, not just in fighting monsters or finding "true love," but in more difficult obstacles like prejudice and unfair disadvantages.
4,75 stars - Audiobook - I have dyslexia -Girls try to be knight, a theme brought up many times before.
The heroïne of this book puts it to another level.
Keladry of Mindalan's first year at the school for knights is discribed with trouble, wisdom, hardship,and humor in this book.
Adventure spatter of the pages.
But this heroïne also honors her former teachers.
A special girl indeed.
One point was a bit to much....
the way of thinking from Kell was a little bit to much at times, is is in this first book only ten.
- Well done Lady page.
She survives all of these triumphantly, thanks to her stubborn determination, unusual skills learned earlier in her childhood, and the right friends.When I put it that way, First Test sounds like a really good book, and yeah, that's why we all read Tamora Pierce to begin with, right?Kel has a much easier time dealing with all of these things than I can imagine myself having.
Ten years after Alanna becomes King's Champion, a female of Tortall finally wants to become a page-- and eventually a knight of the realm.
Both want to prove themselves, both are training to become knights, both have a quartet of books that follow progress from page to squire to knight, heck, both even have a member of the royal family on their side.
In fact, Alanna was hoping to protect and train Kel as the first openly female page-- but she is forbidden.
Her journey, in many ways, is much harder than the one Alanna traveled.
I know Kel has a long way to go.
After King Jonathan took the throne, he decreed that women could train as knights as well.
But more than a decade has passed since Alanna was unveiled as a female knight, and still no other female member of a noble house has come forth to be trained.
The daughter of ambassadors, Kel spent her childhood in lands where women were trained warriors, and intends to become one herself.
Jonathon's hide-bound nobles aren't pleased with this change of tradition, and to placate them, Jonathan agrees that Kel will be merely a probationary page, subject to being tossed out at her first failure.
This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/First Test is about Keladry of Mindelan, the first girl who wishes to become a knight since Lady Alanna.
She has been accepted for knight training, however, unlike the boys she will study and train beside, she has been given a First Test, one year to prove to the conservative training master that she is able to withstand the rigors of page training.The storyline of this book progresses in a very good yet predictable way.
I would recommend First Test to anyone who likes the rest of Tamora Pierce’s books, or well written fantasy books.
Every time I reread this book, I find myself loving it even more.
From Kel and Neal's unlikely friendship to her stalwart, solid sense of loyalty and justice, I could probably reread this series every month and not grow tired of it.
What a beautiful picture of resilience and determination--as well as of friendship and hope and hard work.update from June 2017: Keladry and Neal remain the best and yes, I still cried after reading the ending.
For the twentieth or whatever time this is.
One of my favourite books from my childhood, along with the Lioness quartet. Will review properly later when I don't have a detailed essay (on the use of moving image/film as an art form to explore social media and psychosis) to conclude.Came across my 2003 school reading log, and I think my ten-year-old self actually describes this book best. In my own ten-year-old words: "Excellent, I like the idea that girls are at least as good as boys, if not better!"
I've read this book (this series) over a dozen times over the last decade and a half. Kel has been my rock (stone), and Tamora Pierce has been my strength. The Protector of the Small series has taught me feminism and fairness and strength and how to overcome it all.Tortall is one of my happy places, and I'm so happy to return and find it unchanged after all these years.Tamora Pierce is a FANTASTIC writer, a great world-builder, and a master of character development.
3.5 stars It was cute. I really liked the MC and the way she looked at treating others. Even though I enjoyed it...I wasn't caught by it. She's no Daine. I'm in no hurry to go to book 2.
Five characters mentioned in the first sentence.
Clearly this is not intended for people ignorant of the earlier series.
My first attempt at this author, because it was the first number one in a series to became available.
Ever seen "Minority Report" where he does the hands out thing to interact with the computer?
After the third restart, I had to sit still and do that, just to track the sentence.
Of Course, Tamora is on Overdrive like black on wild rice, so maybe she writes these in her sleep.
You would think such a prolific writer might warrant a Beta reader, or an editor, but apparently not.
I am very excited because my big reread has finally gotten to the Kel books, and Kel is my *FAVORITE* Tamora Pierce heroine.
She doesn't have magic powers, so she gets everything done on her own.
I also have always loved Neal and his dramatics, even though this time around I couldn't help wondering, what kind of 15-year-old is perfectly happy to spend so much time with 10 to 13-year-olds?
But this isn't Neal's book, so I'll just let it go and assume he has a life and friends his own age that Kel just doesn't know or think about.
I enjoyed this, but I had a hard time envisioning Kel as a 10-yr-old. She seemed at least 12 or 13 to me, especially considering the size of her war horse and the heft of her lance. I know pages start young, but it didn't seem right somehow.
I thought it was a less interesting retelling of Alanna’s quartet (which starts with Alanna: The First Adventure), which is also by Tamora Pierce.However, this series has grown on me over the years.
The king made a proclamation ten years ago that allows noble girls to train for their shield, but no one has come forward until Kel. The more conservative people at court think women should not be warriors.
Alanna has been the King's Champion for many years, and she is a hero who is loved by many.
I've loved revisiting old haunts and familiar faces throughout the realm!First Test was a really fun a cute book, with a lot of similarities to Alanna: The First Adventure, yet with enough differences to make it unique and fresh.
(Alanna kept herself disguised as a boy throughout her training.)Kel is such a mature, strong young woman and I loved how she drew on her childhood training to not let things bother her.
All in all, this book was a great way to revisit Tortall and see the first year of being a Page from another perspective and in another time.
Oh these books, every time I read them it's like visiting a best friend.
I adore Kel today as much as I did when these books were first published; I will forever be grateful to Tamora Pierce for creating this fantastic heroine because "bless [her], [she is] real." Kel doesn't have the Gift or any wild magic to help her.
I reread these books ALL THE TIME because I need that.
I need to know that I can crawl out of the mud and be my own hero - no magic required.
As good as I remember!
Ideally, we see it all from the perspective of a scrappy, smart female overcoming the odds to grow into inevitable awesomeness the likes of which no one ever could have expected (except for the reader because we know how this goes.) I suspect this has a lot to do with my formative years spent in extremely permissive Montessori schools, where my educational structure in no way resembled the schools I read about in books.
At the time, I had the sneaking suspicion that I was missing out on some essential challenges that would hone me properly for whatever dramatic trials lay in wait for me in the real world.
decade and a half between the publication of the two series shows a lot of how far we've come, and how much we're still struggling with the concept.Whereas Alanna disguised herself as a boy, and worked through the system, Kel is the first girl to officially get trained as a squire.
At the insistence of the training master, Kel is accepted 'on probation' for her first year (thus the 'test' of the title), helping keep her an outsider to the main group.Much of the novel deals with the kinds of hazing and bullying that have become all too familiar when the small-minded see their 'territory' encroached upon.
