https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/760168.Just_Me_in_the_Tub
***Read and reviewed with my niece Emma***There's a certain lack of excitement in these books by Gina and Mercer Mayer, and yet we are absolutely enamored of them.
I don't know what it is, but reading these makes Emma chill right out.
Maybe it's the main character's nonchalance or his drowsy, half-lidded eyes that lull her into a pleasant, near coma.
I don't know.What I do know is that, in this one, Emma liked the dinosaur the best.
You know, I think I figured out what Emma likes about these books.
This one shows Little Critter and his routine as he has to go and take a bath.
First, he makes sure to get the water the right temperature, makes sure he has his towel, and clean clothes; and he always makes sure to wash himself before he starts playing with his toys.
This book in particular also helps kids learn sequence and why doing things in the right order is important.
They can see the Little Critter go through his routine, and so they can learn from the book, and know how they should do things in their own lives.
Highly recommend for all little kids, but might be especially good for little boys.
This is a simple story about how much fun bath time is for kids. Some children dread taking baths, but if you read "Just Me in the Tub" it might give the child the encouragement to take a bath. I would read this book to 2-5 year old's as well as encourage parents to read it to their child at home. I personal love the joy the character gets when he has everything ready for bath time, but he forgets about something very important to turn off.
This book explains in detail the order of bathing for children. At each step, This story have written a lot of detailed explanations and points of interest. After having children read through the book, playing a game that arranges the picture cards in the order of the story will also help children understand the story of the book.
I love little critter books. This book is one of my favorite it never gets old. Children enjoy watching the process it takes to take a bath. We see Little critter getting ready for his bath and gathering his favorite toys. He makes some mistakes but continues with his fun job.
Cute little story about a child taking a bath, it might encourage a conversation about proper hygiene. Children will enjoy it because they will most likely see similarities in how they themselves bathe.
It’s a good read aloud book that with a funny story line that also has educational value. It teaches children about bath time. It also teaches about love and family with the story ending with little critter cuddling with his parents after being a big boy and taking bath all by himself.
One of my classmates read this book to us in class for her Read Aloud and it was all about a teddy bear who needed to wash up before bed time therefore we got all the things he needed for his bath. It was super cute and would show kids how important it is to wash up before bedtime and stay clean.
Little Critter and his bath time routine, where he has adventures in the tub with his toys. And makes a huge mess in the bathroom that he forgot to clean up.
Great story to help young children prepare for bath time. Loved how Little Critter made a mess despite his good intentions.
One of the better Little Critter books where Little Critter isn't up to too much mischief. A good book for bedtime.
This story is a story about a little bear who loves taking baths. The story outlines the processes he goes through when getting ready to take a bath and actually bathing. He really enjoys himself and always makes sure to follow a list of specific occurrences when bathing. This story is good for kids because although it is a fun story, the underlining theme teaches children how to bathe properly and even how to clean up after themselves. It's a fun read while teaching a lesson which is always a good way to read a book.
This book is about a little bear who really loves taking baths. He goes through a specific checklist every time he bathes and never strays from it.This book is super cute! It is such a fun story that children can learn from!If my children ever have a problem with not bathing properly at a young age, I can turn to this book as a crutch and reference it. It is engaging and can help them clean up after themselves.
But it always makes me feel warm and cozy." —From Just Me in the Tub  Combining showing what not to do as well as what to do at bath time, Gina and Mercer Mayer let their famous and beloved Little Critter do the explaining of how to take a bath and what fun it can be.
A bath is primarily for getting clean, Little Critter knows, but there's more to it than that.
A properly fun bath requires plenty of toys in the water, and maybe a ring of stuffed animals around the outside of the tub so they don't feel left out of the goings-on.
This book follows Little Critter as he tells the reader about how he takes a bath.
He takes the reader step by step from turning on the water, to playing in the bath tub, to the process of cleaning everything up.
The illustrations of this book are very charming and invite the reader into Little Critter's world which is so relatable to a child's.
The wonderful illustrations really animate Little Critter and makes his basic activities more fun.
I would like to use this in the classroom to teach my students about how to be through in writing step by step directions.
Basic plot: Little Critter takes a bath all by himself!This was another adorable installment of the Little Critter books where Critter describes how he does a big boy task "on his own." I put that in quotes because while he describes correct actions and what he *should* be doing, the pictures tell a somewhat different story. It's funny, though, and gives kids a sense of what they should be doing nonetheless. I love these stories, and think they have lots of value for both parents and children.
Reading Level: Preschool-1st Grade From reading, Just Me in the Tub, children will discover the secrets of having good, clean fun as they enjoy watching a fictional little critter take a warm and cozy bath before bed time.
However, the ending is sweet and adorable where the little critter goes to cuddle with his parents after being a big boy and taking a bath all by himself.
This is a perfect book for very young children to have read to them because it teaches them how to take a bath and what they should do and why they should do it.
This is a fun book for children because taking a bath can be fun, while also getting clean. Little Critter plays with toys while he bathes, as I’m sure many children do. This book also teaches that it is important to always put your toys away and clean up any mess you have made after taking a bath.
This Little Critter book by Mercer Mayer is an easy read for young children and can be used to encourage those who are reluctant about bath time. Having fun at bath time as well as bath safety is promoted. The whole Little Critter collection deals with different issues and/or fears that young children encounter. In that respect they remind me of the Berenstain Bears series of books.
I love the little critter stories, there are so many to choose from, some about mom, some about dads, grandmas and grandpas, annoying siblings, bad dreams, being afraid of the dark. You're bound to find one that your kids will enjoy.
I really love this book! I remember reading it when I was a child. This is a perfect book for very young children to have read to them because it teaches them how to take a bath and what they should do and why you do it.
One of my all time favorite "Little Critter" books (I've read almost all of them). Talks about a preparation for bath time before bed. Great pictures that go right along with describing words for them. Fun book in a mass of other books just like it.
All of Mercer Mayer's books seem to have situations that children can learn from or about. This one happens to be about bath time. I would be great to read if you wanted to address staying clean, and how they can do that.
Love all of these stories. Great for any kids who have fears. Helps them connect with the characters to make times like bath time more enjoyable and less scary.
The Little Critter series was a favorite of my son and now his own daughter. I'd say that it stood the test of time.
Didn't folllow the timber of the other books.
A cute book about getting clean at bath time. It lacks some of the rhythm of the other Little Critter books, but my little one still loved it.
This is a realistic ficiton book about the importance of hygiene . It's best for younger elementary students. 5 stars because I love it.
This book is great for children especially when they learn to start reading. It teaches great morals and ideals for everyone to have and great general life lessons.
sucks so much this book needs to be burned what is it about i don't know its about some idit fuz face eating his own bath what kind of story is that so dum 0.000004/1000
