https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43342.You_Belong_To_Me
A fascinating read! The storyline unfolded right way -- awesome writing and storytelling. Huge fan of this author (paperback!)
You Belong to Me was an exciting, suspenseful read that made me regret not reading Clark's books earlier.Susan is a former assistant district attorney turned psychologist and radio host.
I couldn't understand why she wouldn't follow certain obvious - to me at least - leads.
It could be a little repetitive at time, going over certain things two or three different times, but I was so wrapped up in the story I barely cared.I was in awe of the storytelling in throughout the entire book.
I highly enjoyed the way the book was written and that actually stopped my progress on a few occasions.
(foi um pouco chato porque eu desconfiei do/a assassino/a desde muito cedo na estória) e vai-nos oferecendo elementos originais e que dão um toque especial a todos os acontecimentos.O mote que origina toda a narrativa está bastante engraçado, apesar de achar que carece de mais alguns elementos que nos deem uma maior perceção de como os crimes aconteceram.
Apesar de todas as pontas soltas ficarem atadas e de todos os mistérios serem resolvidos, penso que a autora deveria dar mais espaço para que as coisas terminassem uma forma mais lenta e mais concreta em relação a alguns aspetos mais concretos.É um livro com um bom mistério e com personagens interessantes.
Estaba bastante cantado desde el principio quién era el malo de la película o mejor dicho, del libro.Por otro lado, menuda hermana se gasta la protagonista!!
Con hermanas así quién necesita enemigos...
Lo que le hizo ya me parece bastante increíble -hay hermanos que dejen de hablarse por menos- y encima está dispuesta a volverlo a hacer.
Otro que no sea su propia hermana.Un libro con el que pasar el rato.
Como siempre, el particular estilo de la autora con sus capítulos cortos y sus continuos cambios de puntos de vista entre los personajes sin que por ello te lleve a confusión en ningún momento, hace que no se haga pesada su lectura aunque no la encuentres imprevisible.
Mary Higgins Clark may not write the most imaginative of thrillers but she's an accomplished writer in her own right and she never fails to deliver a page-turner that's full of suspense.
While I had picked the killer quite early on, she kept me guessing and doubting myself with the red herrings that were thrown in throughout the narrative.
As described on Amazon, this is vintage Mary Higgins Clark and most readers will enjoy this fast-moving storyline that makes for effortless reading.
Not good at all.I am so disappointed to be writing this review!
MHC is one of the only mystery authors I will give any sort of attention to and typically when I pick up one of her books I’ll have it read in 3 days max.
She definitely has a formula with her books: Grim Incident at the Beginning + Interesting Explanatory Story in the Middle = Super Suspenseful and Thrilling Ending.
However, with this book, the formula went more along the lines of:Quick and Bland Explanatory Story at the Beginning + Very Bland, Predictable and Mildly Grim Incidents throughout the Middle= Anticlimactic Ending.
Dr. Susan in this book is definitely a strong woman but lack of control in her life.
She lost a love partner to her sister, she lost her father to a whinny stepmother and she was having a love-hate relationship with her dear sister, Dee.When Dr Susan was exposed to mysterious disappearing of one Regina Clausen during one of her radio show, she was determine to atleast found out what happened to her.
Someone was agitated when Dr Susan started her investigation on Regina and from there few odd and unexplained tragedies struck her and people around her.
It is a really great book though, it starts off kind of boring and slow, but when you get maybe 8 or 9 chapters into it, the book gets really good.
I have stayed up really late a couple of nights because I haven't been able to close the book.
It is a good keep you at the edge of your seat kind of book.
Yes, at times it is a little boring, but most of the time it is quite a good read.
I definitely suggest it for good, mystery book lovers.
A predictable story with cheap attempts to throw the reader off from guessing who the real killer is, not to mention the lack of an explanation for the motives of the killer.
Another great book by Mary Higgins Clark. I like them because they keep me guessing till the end. And each one is so different - she doesn't write by a formula. This one is about a psychologist who has a radio show and invites an author on who wrote a book about woman vanishing. The broadcast opens a can of worms that nearly kills Dr Susan and had me guessing who dunit till the end!And she doesn't use bad language to "spice" up the story it works very well without!!!!!!
Kind of predictable, but I did enjoy the book. I loved her writing throughout the book, and it was easy to read.
A re-read because I finally found it in audiobook (thank you, inter-library loan!) and since I am on a Clark re-read tear. It's not that great, unfortunately, because it's my favorite title of all MHC's books because it's one of my favorite songs. Unfortunately, the characters act like idiots, the one love interest is painted so thoroughly as a villain I laughed, and I hate that we never found out what happens to the woman in the coma. Overall, it's just not Clark's best effort.
"A esta historia le falta chispa y más desarrollo en varios aspectos de la trama, pero al menos entretiene. Es fácil avanzar en la lectura y el caso en sí no es malo, solo que se trata de un modo muy superficial. Si queréis leer un thriller sencillo, éste es una buena opción".Reseña completa: http://entrelalecturayelcine.blogspot...
This is my first MHC, and it was gifted to me by a dear friend. Albeit a little predictable, the writing still made for a good pageturner and was a good easy read for the weekend.
I have always loved Mary Higgins Clarks books and this book is no exception. I tend to get up in the middle of the night and continue reading as she is an excellent suspense creator. All her books are my favorites and if you like thrillers, please do read her books.
Totally not worth the time to finish.-The ending sucked-Because of the way the book is written, it is impossible to get to know the characters.
The author just tells the reader what they need to know about Dr. Chandler, aka boring.-There are also too many characters to get to know.
Again, the way the book was written, the characters are thrown into the readers face.
I know I'm not the only reader who hates being talked to.
The book might have been less boring had the author shown me more about the characters, about the mystery about anything.
If you hate mysteries...skip this book anyway.
I've read several MHC books and generally enjoyed them, but this one was pretty meh, because of the ending. The story starts off well and left me guessing as to who the serial killer was, but when it was finally revealed, it was done in such a rushed way, with a poor motive for the bad guy, so not one of MHC's better books.
Higgins Clark uses short chapters and a boat load of characters to advance the story which is fitting since a serial killer is preying upon lonely women on cruise liners.Psychologist Dr. Susan Chandler has a successful call in radio show as well a private practice.
Clausen disappeared three years prior off the cruise liner Gabriella.
The killer is tying up loose ends, or as he says "gathering the loose feathers." He is close to completing his mission and no one, including Susan Chandler is going to compromise it.
The suspense level quickly mounts in the novel as Susan investigates Clausen's disappearance and "Karen's" accident.
With the help of a book written by psychiatrist Donald Richards (whos own wife disappeared) she begins her new series with a piece on the unsolved disappearance of Regina Clausen who vanished into thin air whilste on a round-the-world cruise three years ago.
When Susan started the show, what she didn't bargain for was a mysterious call from a frightened lady calling herself "Karen" and who said that she was approached by a man on a cruise ship two years ago and who gave her a turquoise ring with the word "you belong to me" on it.
I LOVE this book!
When it played during Shrek I started giggling and when my friends asked why I said "He is going to kill her and bury her in one of those places." No one got it.
The book is very interesting and gives you just enough that know something of what is going on, but never know who.
Like most MHC books it builds up your monstrous killer as someone legitimately frightening if imagined in real life.
If you like suspense and murder books, give it a read.
The main character love plot is far less interesting, but the killer more than makes up for it IMO.
I see why they call these suspense novels because when you know someone is about to die or holds a key to the mystery and then read how they aren't going to do the one thing that will save their life, it drives you up a wall.
I don't know if that is suspense so much as anger, but a few times I was screaming at the characters at this book.
This novel was a quick read and very intriguing, though I have to admit I figured out who the killer was before the end of the novel.
Picking up this book, I had high hopes since Mary Higgins Clark is a name I've heard and seen oftentimes in bookstores.
I was thrilled at the mystery that boggled the characters in this story and I loved the psychological aspect of it but there were a few things that threw me off a bit.First of all, I found the first half of the story to be a bit of a bore.
I loved the plot line and such but there was so much happening and hardly enough scenes with the main characters taking place.
In Mary Higgins Clark's You Belong to Me, she took us on an adventure from radio to the cruise ships.
Dr. Susan Chandler decided to use her radio talk show to explore the topic of disappearing women and the killers who prey on their vulnerable loneliness, she had no idea she exposed herself and others to the invisible dangers out there.
When a caller called in about the disappearance of Regina Clausen from years ago on a cruise ship, Susan began to investigate her case and asked callers to offer information on the crime.
Susan is a clinical psychologist who also hosts a radio talk program.
The subject of her latest program involves the unsolved murder of a woman.
When clues are phoned in, they set off a series of murders, and Susan eventually finds herself targeted by the killer.The beginning is simple, but it's not long before the story grows increasingly complex.
Clark, though, adeptly keeps the characters straight for us while giving them each a unique personality.
We get enough background so we have an idea what makes each person tick, although the killer is known only as 'he' until we learn his identity near the novel's end.
I should remember not to read MHC back to back; it only leads to disappointment with her repetitive formulas.
Particularly in You Belong to Me I had the killer picked out way in advance - not because the clues were there, but because he was the only one who *hadn't* been pointed at, which is pretty typical.
I'm also getting a bit fed up with "strong" female protagonists (always lawyers, journalists, etc.) who, in spite of their insistence that they can "take care of themselves," somehow *always* end up being rescued by their men in the end.
Lesson learned: I'll put MHC back on the shelf for a while.

What an utter waste of a decent plot!! The book was riddled with intentionally misleading side stories and a cheap attempt to throw the reader off from guessing who the killer is, which by itself made the end obvious. A classy author like Mary Higgins Clark, did not have to resort to this. My other complaint about this book is the lack of tightness of plot. In trying to offer every person's perspective in this book, it seems like the author instead tried to offer the reader every character's every single thought! I am very disappointed
This book is really addictive, Mary Higgins Clark takes us once again in an exciting thriller until the end, she takes us on different tracks that would suggest that this or that character is the killer (I first thought the counselor Jane Clausen, Douglas Layton then to Dr. Richards). While it is only in the last pages that we discover the real identity of the killer, I do not doubt at all that it could be Alex.
Very good book for my first book that I've read of Higgens Clark since the last time I read one of her books when I was in high school! I have so many more of her newer books and I can't wait to read more of one of mt favorite authors in high school! 4 stars!
I read this author sometimes because I have a friend who really loves her, and she gives me the books. The stories are a tad simplistic for my tastes, but Clark writes well, and the mysteries are fun.
