https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/618604.The_Man_With_The_Getaway_Face
4.0 stars. After settling a vendetta against his former crew and starting a big, juicy new one against the entire Outfit in the The Hunter....PARKER (aka Mr. Badass MoFo)....IS …..BACK!! He has a brand new face thanks to some nifty plastic surgery performed by an “off the books” doctor and is now in need of some quick cash to tide him over while he looks for his next big score. In order to solve his fiscal crisis, Parker reluctantly agrees to team up with an old associate and his new woman in o
He has a brand new face thanks to some nifty plastic surgery performed by an “off the books” doctor and is now in need of some quick cash to tide him over while he looks for his next big score.
In order to solve his fiscal crisis, Parker reluctantly agrees to team up with an old associate and his new woman in order to plan and carry out an armored car heist.
A sub-plot has Parker having to deal with a man named Stubbs who I thought was one of the more interesting supporting characters from the first two books;5.
Parker leaves Nebraska with a new face and a distinct lack of funds.
He gets involved in a scheme to rob an armored car but there are complications.
The armored car scheme is dodgy at best and one of the partners is planning a double cross.
Can Parker figure out who the trigger man was and clear his name,pull off the armored car robbery, and avoid the double cross?Westlake does it again.
Even though he's a killer, I was glad he came out of the double cross the way he did.
Nor will I be 100% sure what I’m saying if I call someone a frill and/or a busher, but by god, by the end of the work week I intend to find out.
It’s a dark and enjoyable ride.Judging a book by its cover:I know they say you’re not supposed to do that, but since not everyone will get their mitts on the 1984 vintage copy of Parker #2, I’m sharing my thoughts.
*Additionally, as Kemper pointed out in the comments, he ['84 cover Parker, not Kemper] may be donning a Member's Only jacket...
There’s a lot of complications, and if there’s one thing that Parker can’t stand, it’s seeing a simple plan get complicated.While a self-contained story, this picks up from The Hunter and leads well into the third book, essentially making the first three of the series a trilogy.
One of the nice things about this is that while there’s an overall arc to the stories that make them rewarding if you read them all, they can also be enjoyed just as individual books.This one also establishes the tone for the rest of the Parker series.
There’s usually a job with someone who can’t be trusted along with some kind of outside circumstance screwing with Parker’s well laid plans.
In this sequel our amoral protagonist goes through another plastic surgery to start fresh and anew , the death of the plastic surgeon creates a series of unfortunate albeit funny events that ultimately fucks things up for Parker and will potentially expose him to the "outfit" .
a dual storyline: the one concerns a pretty conventional but extremely well-told armored car robbery; the other flips clean off the rails: the only guy who knows about parker's face-change surgery could reveal his identity and parker essentially shoves the guy in a sensory deprivation tank for two weeks -- when the guy breaks out his brains are all scrambled and he's on a mission.
there's an interesting moment in which one of parker's team gives the guy in the tank (it's actually an underground fruit cellar, but might as well be a sensory deprivation tank) a flashlight to break the monotony.
So, shouldn't I feel bad for rooting for him?.....NAH!Cold-blooded crook in the first degree, Parker has just undergone a necessary face change when he is drawn into a heist for the quick cash prospect.
That's fine, but having to follow a character who doesn't understand what's going on means as a reader you are forced to endure repetition or long, drawn out passages in which you know exactly what's going on and where it's going.
This gets boring real quick.
I wouldn't want to spend a lot of time with these dickholes and twatwads, so I'm glad author Richard Stark kept it short.
This is the second book in Richard Stark's series about the amoral criminal, Parker.
At the opening of this book, he has made his way to Nebraska, where he successfully undergoes surgery to change his face to such an extent that even his old associates don't recognize him.At the conclusion of the operation, Parker returns to the East, desperately in need of a score.
Complications arise at nearly every turn and, as always, much of the fun in reading these books is watching the way in which Parker deals with one crisis after another.
This might sound like a generic plot for your run-of-the-mill crime thriller, but what makes this one unique is that Parker knows from the get-go that a member of the crew will try to pull a double-cross.
Though this book feels a little like a pit stop on the way to an inevitable showdown with the Outfit, it's entertaining enough and left me wanting to know what happens next!
Plus, it has the most awesome title of all the Parker books.
The formula to the Parker novels is pretty straight forward, and I don't know how they are going to keep reading, like if I'll get bored with them or whatnot as I read through the first 18 or so, but after reading the last two I'm thinking they are the literary equivalent of The Ramones, they are simple and straight forward and at least when Dee Dee is writing the songs and he isn't too whacked out on smack and his own delusions they are borderline fun genius.
After his features are flip-flopped, Parker heads north and falls in with a few felons planning an armoured truck robbery.
Being a perfectionist, Parker doesn’t like the plan and after making a few adjustments, he comes to suspect one of the players isn’t on the level.On top of all this, the doctor who played Mr. Potato Head with Parker’s mug winds up taking a dirt nap and Parker is the prime suspect.
It felt at times like I was reading blueprints rather than a story.
Why not just kill him?“It was dangerous to kill when there wasn't enough reason, because after a while killing became the solution to everything, and when you got to thinking that way you were only one step from the chair.”Though we see him kill plenty in book one, here we go, a killer with principles.In the first half of the book, Parker is broke and so pulls off an armored car heist (that aforementioned job) with several dopes, including a woman named Alma.
A heist, nothing special, but it’s a kind of model of storytelling efficiency.Just to show he knows how to complicate his storytelling, the second half of the book features Starks depicting Stubbs getting loose to let The Outfit know Parker has a new identity, with Parker following him.
I liked this book much better than the first one: in retrospect, I am not sure why I gave The Hunter 4 stars.
Anyway, I digress.
Book #2 opens with Parker having had plastic surgery to escape the clutches of the Outfit.
Meanwhile, the plastic surgeon is killed and his aide de camp comes looking for Parker, not realizing Parker was such a bad ass.
After he escapes, the guy goes off looking for another patient, satisfied with Parker's alibi, and Parker intervenes because of the threat of being out'ed.
Liking the series better.
But reading it again with a greater appreciation of its place in the cycle, one can’t help but be fascinated as to how this embryonic series is developing.Most of the Parker novels focus on Parker working a heist and using his no-nonsense, no-compromise skillset to get over and fight back against any hitches which arise.
That is exactly what we have here, and so since ‘The Hunter’ isn’t that plot at all, this is the first time the soon to be trademarked formula of a Parker story is actually used.
It's about 300 minutes long & was worth every minute.I kept waiting to get the first in this series, but it keeps being checked out, so I finally just listened to this one.
I do know sort of what happened in the first one because of the 2 movies based on the first book.
I hear the 2d, Payback with Mel Gibson, wasn't great, but I liked it.Anyway, I had no problem fitting right into Parker's world & following his thinking.
He's a perfectly self-centered SOB, no doubt about it, but I liked him.
Very cool.I can't wait to listen to the next, The Outfit.
Stark's writing style is as methodical as a police procedural, but this crime novel is a sharp and thrilling read. I was anticipating a lot of violence after the first book, but the reporterly writing deemphasizes it. It happens of course, but it's dispassionate and understated. I'm going to burn through this series in a flash.....and I just discovered my local library has graphic novel renditions of Parker 1 and 3. I feel like I've got treasure waiting for me at the library.
our anti-hero Parker becomes embroiled in a scheme to rob an armored car. After running afoul of the crime syndicate previously, he travels to Nebraska to get a new face. Written in '63, the action is pervasive, as Parker nonchalantly carries on with the plan.
This is no way for a self respecting completely self absorbed, totally selfish homicidal psychopath to behave.Well anyway another disturbing (because I liked the book) outing with our premier, "look out for #1" non-hero Parker.having just gotten a new face from a plastic surgeon recommended by one of the people Parker trusts he's all set.Until he gets roped into a questionable job with questionable partners...again.In spite of all his rules about hot working with people he doesn't trust he seems to do it a lot, you know?Lots of blood, plenty of action not a bad read st all...But it still disturbs me a bit I like these.
I wish I could explain why I like this guy.
He slaps women around, sometimes because they like it, sometimes because they need it.
(His sentiments, not mine.) i think it’s a real testiment to Stark’s writing skills that he is able to have Parker walk this really thin line between what’s okay and what’s not, all the while with the reader rooting him on.
(view spoiler)[ Even after he cuts off someone’s head.
I’m like, yup, that was the right thing to do.
I’m pretty sure there are no circumstances in real life when I would think that way.
(hide spoiler)]
The protagonist, Parker is an accomplished criminal who gets a new face from a Doctor in Nebraska.
I hadn't read the prior novel (where his need for the new face is established), but the writing throughout is very detailed, very polished.I know that "Richard Stark" is a pen name for Donald Westlake and I have not read a lot by him under either by-line, but I am impressed.
This is a very tight story with Parker puzzling out most things "in time" so that he can take command of the situation.
The 2nd installment of Parkers' adventures and it tells us of Parker getting some plastic surgery to alter his well known looks especially for that crime outfit he hurt so much in the 1st novel (FYI: the Hunter).
The heist and the planning does not go off as ideally planned but Parker walks away with enough dough.The second story line is about Stubbs the former chauffeur of the plastic surgeon who got killed after Parker left them.
If he fails to do so the outfit will be informed about the three last patients.
"He was a big man, flat and squared-off, with boxy shoulders and a narrow waist.
He had big hands, corrugated with veins, and long hard arms.
He looked like a man who'd made money, but who'd made it without sitting behind a desk."This is my second reading of The Man With The Getaway Face (Parker, #2).
But because i was borrowing them from my library, i read them as they became available, rather than in order.
The great thing about re-reading this, the second of the 'Parker' novels is that i didn't remember the story very well so it was like reading it for the first time.
3  stars. There were some good parts. I like watching what Parker does.I enjoy it because it’s part of an interesting series. It would not be as good as a stand alone story. When I finish one book, I’m eager to read the next. Parker is a tough very smart bad guy planning and committing crimes with other bad guys.There are no sex scenes, but there are references to Parker being with whores and slapping them to get them interested.NARRATOR - John Chancer:I did not like the narrator’s voice for som
Parker is a tough very smart bad guy planning and committing crimes with other bad guys.There are no sex scenes, but there are references to Parker being with whores and slapping them to get them interested.NARRATOR - John Chancer:I did not like the narrator’s voice for some characters.
He partners with different guys for different jobs in each book.If you are new to the series, I suggest reading the first three and then choose among the rest.
The rest can be read as stand alones.The first three books in order:								4 stars.
The Outfit.Read these two in order:5 stars.
Stark's second novel featuring his villainous creation Parker is written in the usual straightforward prose, and this one features a nice last page surprise. It's certainly entertaining enough for me to want to continue reading the next in the series.

Another great Parker novel, and a great heist novel overall.
Continuing with my reading (audio) of all the Parker series by Richard Stark (Donald Westlake), this title follows Parker's run-in with the "Outfit/Syndicate".
Here, his caper is threatened by a double-cross from a fellow robber and by Stubbs, the surgeon’s loyal, but punch-drunk chauffeur, who has vowed to find the doctor’s killer and take revenge.
(the section of the book narrated by Stubs as he tries to find the threads of his mission in his battered mind are unusual for a Parker book.) Regardless of his amoral view of life, Parker does have a code that he follows rigorously.
His antagonists cross his code at their peril.First rate noir.
The Parker series is a project of a deceitful ambition.
Richard Stark lifts the veil on his protagonist gradually and never goes faster than Parker's own actions.
In THE MAN WITH THE GETAWAY FACE, he is looking for a fresh start, but there isn't such thing as fresh start for an unrepenting career criminal like him.But if somebody can pull it off, it's Parker.
It's flawed enough for Parker to get nervous, but if there's somebody you don't feel nervous about, it's him.
The second adventure is slower and tenser than THE HUNTER, yet it digs a little deeper into the bleak world of Parker.
Wow!
I read this in less than a day.
Haven't done that in a long time.
I guess I enjoyed it.
I read many of these in the late 60s and early 70s and enough time has elapsed that they I have forgotten the plots and they are as new to me now.
In any event for those of you unfamiliar with Parker, he is an anti-hero, a professional heist artist.
He always finds himself in a situation where "The best laid plans etc...etc"" and works through it in a coldly professional way.
Book two in the Parker series.
Book two's Parker is less emotional than the vengeance driven verion in The Hunter.
As many have pointed out, this novel is actually two stories linked by Parker's attempt to get a new face (the mob is after him due to his scorched earth actions in the previous novel).
Since this book was written back in the early sixties, there are some interesting time capsule moments, like an earlier real estate bubble in Florida, and the kind of jerks that took advantage of it.
Take comfort, one jerk gets his, via Parker.
Actually, more than one.
