https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1234382.The_Swimmer
Battezza il percorso ‘fiume Lucinda’, dal nome di sua moglie lasciata a rosolare al sole a casa degli amici, mentre lui si decide a partire.A nuoto.All’inizio:Ned provò un momentaneo sentimento d’affetto per quella scena, un senso di tenerezza per quella gente lì riunita, un sentimento che gli sembrava di poter toccar con mano.A metà del percorso:… prese un bicchiere e si versò da bere.
Possibile sia dimagrito nel lasso di qualche vasca?!!Alla villa seguente, quella dei Sachs, chiede un whiskey, ne ha bisogno per ritrovare le forze spese nuotando: ma gli amici non hanno più liquori in casa da quando il padrone di casa è stato operato tre anni prima.
Book Review  3 of 5 stars to The Swimmer, a short story written in 1964 by John Cheever. Why on Earth would a man want to swim from one end of a county to the other? There would have to be something wrong with him to even want to accomplish something like that! Yet, Neddy Merrill, a character in John Cheever’s short story “The Swimmer”, wanted to do it, which obviously shows that there was something wrong with him. Neddy planned on jumping from pool to pool as though he was really swimming in
Why on Earth would a man want to swim from one end of a county to the other?
Yet, Neddy Merrill, a character in John Cheever’s short story “The Swimmer”, wanted to do it, which obviously shows that there was something wrong with him.
Neddy got his wish from before when he wanted to make his swim without his trunks.
It seemed as though while Neddy was trying swim the entire county on the Lucinda River, he was really trying to recapture his wife Lucinda.
Neddy did swim the whole county, but when he got home, he hadn’t reclaimed his family and money.
Amazing short story! "The Swimmer" is less than 10 pages, but it is incredibly powerful. The description of Neddy's attempt to swim home after a bout of heavy drinking was beautifully surreal. Highly recommended.Favorite Quotes"He was not a practical joker nor was he a fool but he was determinedly original and had a vague and modest idea of himself as a legendary figure.""Was his memory failing or had he so disciplined it in the repression of unpleasant facts that he had damaged his sense of the truth?"
This is a very short but definitely worthwhile story with a lot more imagination than meets the eye at first. I initially thought there was nothing special about it but once you've read it, you'll never forget it.
However, no one will find the story to be boring as it is a page-turner.Burt Lancaster as The Swimmer holds a pair of beautiful shapely legs in his hands.The story was originally published in The New Yorker on July 18, 1964 and made into a fabulous film in 1968 with Burt Lancaster as "The Swimmer" called Neddy Merrill.DVD plus Blu Ray combo poster of The Swimmer.I AM writing the review for John Cheever's "Expelled" here as I could not find it separately as a short story.“Expelled” is John Cheever’s second short story that I have read; the first being “The Swimmer”.
Stile LiberoGli altri due racconti sono belli, anche se sono sicura che sia necessario immergersi pi
Amerika'nın Çehov u olarak anılan yazarın okuduğum ilk kitabı bu öykü derlemesi oldu.
Hikayelerinde ele aldığı insaların ait olduğu sosyal sınıf çok da ilgimi çekmese de bu sınıfa ait insanlar üzerinden insanın dualist yapısını yer yer mizahi bir dille ele alışı gerçekten hoştu.Sanırım insanın bu trajikomik halini ortaya serebilecek en iyi durumlar da bu biraz kalburüstü denilen sınıftan çıkıyor.Çevirinin çok az teklediği yerler varmış gibi hissetsem de yazarın edebi tadı gayet güsel hissediliyordu.
I agree with the central message of this short story, I just found its delivery boring. Yes, perpetual suburbia and unfulfilling wealth and meaningless pleasantries can take a toll on one's health. John Cheever portrays the dullness of Neddy Merrill's life as he swims throughout the story. But, by doing so with no change of pace, Cheever makes his own story dull, delivering a solid piece of symbolism and a lackluster work of writing. Another story that satisfies the mind but fails to reach the heart.
A twisted little tale of heartache.Powerful, as all good short stories should be, this is a wonderful ride from the halcyon days of endless summer through autumn and winter. I can taste the gin and tonic on my lips, so perfect a summer drink that fades from glory in the crispness of chillier days.In many ways this reminded me of The Great Gatsby.
The Swimmer is probably his best, my favourable and one of the best ever.In order to write a review I reread it today for the fourth time.It all began one fine summer day:“It was one of those midsummer Sundays when everyone sits around saying, ‘I drank too much last night.’ You might have heard it whispered by the parishioners leaving church, heard it from the lips of the priest himself, struggling with his cassock in the vestiarium, heard it from the golf links and the tennis courts, heard it from the wildlife preserve where the leader of the Audubon group was suffering from a terrible hangover.”And it is a valiant hero:“He might have been compared to a summer’s day, particularly the last hours of one, and while he lacked a tennis racket or a sail bag the impression was definitely one of youth, sport, and clement weather.”Just for fun of it, he decides to take a journey, using the pools of neighbourhood, swimming home.
Cheever was aiming for mystique and great depth, but the story isn’t compelling enough to inspire much analysis and discussion, and protagonist Neddy (a man, who, on a whim, decides to “swim across the county” rather than walk or drive the four miles home from a friend’s pool party) is a one-dimensional bore.
The story could sustain interest if it were obvious from the start that there’s something extremely fantastical about the entire goings-on or even some kind of urgency to create suspense.
The swimming pool metaphor also is original, and it’s easy to envision each yard and pool Neddy swims across, although Cheever described these settings (and any people nearby) sparingly.
Read for class.
Un racconto degno della sua fama.In una pigra domenica d'estate un uomo è in piscina a casa di amici e a un certo punto gli viene un'idea: percorrere la manciata di chilometri che lo separano da casa sua nuotando in tutte le piscine che si trovano lungo il percorso.Quello che all'inizio sembra il resoconto di una stramberia poco alla volta diventa qualcos'altro, il tempo si dilata e il realismo cede il passo al surrealismo. Come accade nei sogni, in particolare in quelli che alla fine diventano incubi.
A superb story in the abstract or surreal world. A man 'swims' home from a friend's pool party, by hopping into suburban pools and doing laps on the way home. His superficial surface identity of happiness is gradually washed away. Fabulous.
Cheever wrote and published the Swimmer when alcohol had started to take over his life, which led to the destruction of many personal and professional relationships.
It was only at the end of Neddy's visit at the Biswanger's that I realized he must be an unreliable narrator, and that his social standing, as well as his life, have possibly changed.
Neddy's physical strength is fading and he eventually makes it to his own house.
It is only when he looks through the windows and sees his house empty that he realizes that his life must have changed for the worse.
A pretty good little short audio.
I have heard of Cheever before, but never thought to read (listen) any of his stuff until I ran across this one on sale.
Glad I picked it up.
The premise was very good and the story was well executed.Ned is not running away from his problems.
He’s swimming.
In and out of the water, over hedges, thru cocktail parties, across the freeway and into the approaching storm.
He just wants to get back to his family.
One swimming pool at a time.3.5 Stars.
I would be interested to read a longer work from this author.
Üstüne cila olarak Burt Lancaster'in oynadığı, 1968 yapımı The Swimmer.
Ever since I read Roger Deakin's 'Waterlog' I wanted to read 'the swimmer' as Deakin mentions it as a great inspiration for his Waterlog.
Waterlog is sublime, what I missed in Cheever's 'the swimmer'.
This is not to say that I find 'the swimmer' one of Cheevers better stories.
Cheever has the New York high-society and them of the surrounding areas often as subject.
This is also here the case.
It's rather a discripture of swimming trough their pools than swimming in nature's rivers that is the subject here.
As for the rating I cannot make out a 3 or a 4 star.
amerikan öyküleri okumayı özlemişim. öykü türünde -her nedense- çok başarılı olduğunu düşünüyorum amerikalıların. john cheever'ın öyküleri bizim 80 sonrası tanıştığımız kapitalist kent hayatını o kadar ince detaylarla anlatıyor ki... 1950-60'larda geçen öyküleri okudukça içimde mad men'i tekrar izleme isteği uyandı. new york'ta çalışıp iyi kazanan adamlar, banliyöde oturup kocalarını beklerken ev hanımcılığı oynayan kadınlar, her yerden akan iki yüzlülük, mutsuzluk...özellikle "beş kırk sekiz" ve "yüzücü" dikkate değer öyküler.ve tomris uyar'ır akıp giden çevirisini de özlemişim. "bityeniği" öyküsünde "mupmutlu" diyor, ne garip, biz şimdi "musmutlu" diyoruz.
There are short stories and there are very short stories, a story that only seems to last a matter of a few minutes. How can a story really be covered in next to no time?, well, in short story master John Cheever's hands it's possible, a chilling view of one man in suburbia. Pure gold in under 20 pages.
Vite serene, luoghi tranquilli e assolati. Ma è solo apparenza...“Era la sua memoria che vacillava, o era il fatto che avendola esercitata a rimuovere i ricordi sgradevoli, il suo senso della realtà era ora offuscato?”Un racconto semplicemente perfetto.
Life is a damned, long swimming route set and invented by yourself in order to give yourself a purpose, a destiny, an ambition, a sense of pride, and/or a thousand other reasonable desires embodying achievement.
Depending on what you've expected out of your fancy little invention - called your life - you're affected by your experience.
And here's the nasty little (huge?) truth about it: no matter what you've expected from it, you're doomed to be disappointed, and worse, ridiculed, mocked, betrayed by others and by yourself for it.
Even worse: you can't stop.
Tre più che buoni racconti.Il primo, probabilmente, lo conoscerete quasi tutti.
Nello spazio di un tempo senza tempo, che potrebbe essere fatto di minuti, come di decenni, Ned Merrill, il protagonista, subisce una metamorfosi completa.
A livello di fatti, non succede quasi nulla.
Ma, a livello di sentimenti, esplicitati o sottintesi, è un vero fuoco pirotecnico.Il terzo, Una radio straordinaria, si avvicina più al primo.
Il ribaltamento delle posizioni, al finale, è tanto repentino quanto amaro.Racconti non per stupirsi, ma solo per trovare conferma al fatto che sostenere di conoscere qualcuno, persino se stessi, è una pura chimera.
Sorridere come cretini di fronte alla propria merda Forse è un po' prematuro giudicare un autore da 
This had some great imagery and quotes! Otherwise, the story was pretty bland, unfortunately. Read for class.
"Was his memory failing or had he so disciplined it in the repression of unpleasant facts that he had damaged his sense of the truth?"
In quel momento gli venne l'idea che, seguendo un percorso ad angolo in direzione sud ovest, sarebbe potuto arrivare a casa sua a nuoto.Attraverso le piscine dei vicini, un'intera contea, scavalcando siepi e recinti, pestando l'erba umida e le foglie non raccolte sui prati, entrando di volta in volta nel quadretto borghese di tante vite simili alla sua.
Ned Merrill, il nuotatore, Ned Merrill il disincantato, Ned Merrill il buon vicino di casa, Ned Merrill in pieno fallimento economico.Vuole solo nuotare, non vuole seguire la strada, vuole sentirsi stanco, non uscire dall'acqua, arrivare a casa, sì, ma seguendo un percorso diverso attraverso una cartografia delle piscine borghesi americane, tagliando con il suo corpo, di volta in volta, il campo visivo di amici o anonimi borghesi.
It's not my type of book to read ...
well it's actually not a book.
It's one of the many stories inside one giant book.It is a very peculiar way to tell a story.
It's about a man who loves swimming and only remembers the goodness that happened in his life.
You never know what is exactly going on or the point of the plot until you get to the very end.
And then you have to go back and read everything all over again to get the reason why that end happened.
I had to read this short story for a college class I am taking. Blew me away! It depicts a man who basically lives his life like a dream, he uses swimming as his escape to uphold the dream he lived in, but is eventually awakened by reality. I absolutely love this story because it is so real and a reflection of how many people live their lives today.
I did a paper on this story in college. It was my first journey away from the concrete sequential world of my childhood and into the world of the abstract. Blew my mind wide open. I was never fit for decent society thereafter.
