https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/514210.The_Way_of_Zen
There ought to be a special star (green? purple?) for books that meant something to you a long time ago, but which you know you would hate today.
In The Way of Zen, Alan Watts introduces us to Zen Buddhism and to some extend Taoism to the average John and Jane.
Watts explains Zen, to the extend that it can be explained, so that we can understand it, to the extend we should try to understand it.
Though Zen is a branch of Buddhism, it responds to the formal ritual of its progeny with spontaneous thoughts and actions.
Zen has influenced artwork and poetry in China and Japan.
Alan WattsIf you are curious about Zen, this is the book to start with.
Zen 101 for beginners.
This book is easily as good as anything I've read on spirituality, and probably the very best.
It is important to read between the lines in this book if the full benefit of the spiritual practices of the East is to be had.
Whenever I read this book I am overcome by a profound feeling of the numinous, comparable to, but not quite reaching the highest hights of, the most profound spiritual experiences of my life.
The best work of Alan Watts I have read to date, this book is highly recommended for anybody interested in Eastern spirituality.
Great book for an introduction to Zen.
Actually, an online friend years ago had mentioned Watts among several other recommendations on the subject of Buddhism, so as I was searching this one immediately popped out.
Like Zen itself, Watts's style is straightforward and unfettered by terminology.
He uses concrete metaphors and sometimes comparisons to Western philosophical/religious concepts to clarify, which for someone like me is always the clearest and easiest approach.I didn't personally find the approach too meandering or overly prone to tangents--or, if there were tangents, they seemed clearly enough related to the subject at hand to maintain focus/interest.
When we attempt to exercise power or control over someone else, we cannot avoid giving that person the very same power or control over us. Hmm. This is going to be fun.
It might be that I am a little too generous with my stars here, but this was the first book on Japanese (and Chinese) philosophy that I ever read.
I was very much taken with Watts' attitude - respect without too much enthusiasm, no effort to convert the reader into anything, but also no self-inflicted distance that would view the subject matter entirely as a topic of purely academic interest.
Of course, Japanese studies have advanced considerably from those days, important texts have been translated, some even several times, and there are many more competent introductions to the topic (Kasulis, Zen Action/Zen Person for example).
Written in Watts' eminently readable attractive prose style, concise and provocative, The Way of Zen has annoyed American practitioners since its 1957 publication.
Philip Kapleau went out of his way to denounce it in the introduction to his Three Pillars of Zen for downplaying zazen.
The other very interesting point he makes in his chapter on meditation is the introduction of Tariki or Other Power, the way of Shin Buddhism.
He mentions Shinran Shonin (founder of the Jodo Shin Shu sect) and the myokonin Kichibei to show the possibility of another way to come to realization.
Thus the Sanskrit root dva- from which we get the word 'divide' is also the root of the Latin duo (two) and the English 'dual.'To say, then, that the world of facts and events is maya is to say that facts and events are terms of measurement rather than realities of nature.
As soon as you measure or mark off, you create an "other." This can lead to all kinds of linguistic conundrums, like the fist/open hand parable Watts gives, but ultimately the real danger is something deeper--confusing symbols, such as words, with whatever it is they are trying to describe.
Zen tangles, paintings, sayings, haiku, made me ever so curious about Zen. Also, a few books I read recently set in China and Bhutan, and a few non-fictions gave a glimpse of the liberal and understanding religion of Buddhism.
Alan Watts has cleaved the book into two halves, the first half explains the (possible) origins of Zen and the second half is about practices, forms, masters, and art.
Both the parts were equally critical and with this thorough introduction through the eyes of a westerner, I have become even more curious to learn and understand the Zen state, the process, and the way of life.
Jianzhi Sengcan (鑑智僧璨) - Xin Xin Ming (信心銘) .El Shōbōgenzō (正法眼蔵) dice:Cuando un pez nada, sigue nadando y el agua no se acaba.
Cuando un pájaro vuela, sigue volando y el cielo no se acaba.
Desde las épocas más remotas jamás un pez abandonó el agua nadando, ni un pájaro abandonó el cielo volando.
Pero cuando un pez necesita un poco de agua, se limita a usar ese poco; y cuando necesita mucha, usa mucha.
Con el agua el pez hace su vida.
Así hay el pez, el agua y la vida, y todos se crean recíprocamente.
Great exposition of Zen Buddhism, its history, philosophy, practice, and cultural/artistic influences.
Alan Watts is definitely an awesome writer who's capable of not only clearly explaining the intricate concepts foreign to Western sensibility but also respecting and handling fine linguistic and conceptual differences between cultures.
Aside from his gripes with Soto and Rinzai Zen practice resembling boarding school discipline, I loved it, especially Zen's Chinese and Indian philosophical roots as well as its influence on Japanese and Chinese arts (Sado, Kendo, Sumi-e, and poetry).
My discoveries and new must-reads include: Bankei, Takuan, Hakuin, and Ryokan.
And of course I'll definitely read Watt's other writings.
Read slowly and take note.Nho giáo tựa như 1 người gương mẫu, đầy chuẩn mực của xã hội.
Còn Đạo giáo thì hoàn toàn ngược lại, như 1 kẻ nổi loạn có trình độ, anh ta sống thuận theo ý mình, thuận theo tự nhiên, luôn giữ cho tâm bất biến giữa dòng đời vạn biến - my thought on this book.Lần đầu tiếp xúc với chủ đề tôn giáo mà lại bắt đầu vs cuốn này thật sự là 1 thử thách quá lớn vì quá khó hiểu, có lẽ là vs 1 ng trẻ trc h chỉ quen vs kiểu suy luận logic như mình.
I love how he can synthesize complex philosophical topics in a way that anyone, even the uninitiated could really feel comfortable discussing.
"We have come to feel ourselves as centers of a very, very, tender, sensitive, vulnerable consciousness, confronted with a world that does not give a damn about us.
We talk about the conquest of space, of mountains, of cancer.
And it's because we feel ourselves to be lonely ego principles, trapped in, somehow intextricably bound up with, a world that does not go our way unless somehow we can manage to force it to do so.

Зен буддизмийн талаарх анхны гадаад ертөнцөд зориулан бичигдсэн бүрэн хэмжээний гэж хэлж болох энэ номонд зен буддизмийн үүсэл гарал энэтхэгийн буддизм, хятад дахь таоизмийн хамаарал болоод хэрхэн зен японы арлуудад хүрсэн түүхэн баримтуудийн дурдсан байна. Шашин бус ямар нэг итгэл үнэмшил дээр тулгууралдаггүй өөрийгөө чөлөөлөх арга замд хөтөлдөг зен буддизмийн талаарх чанартай бүтээлүүд өдий хэр нь ховор. Сузуки багшийн эссенүүд төдий л олны хүртээл болоогүй нь дээр ихээхэн ойлголт тэвчээр шаарддаг нь өрнийхонд хаалттай байсан хэвээр.
Wow! This little book is amazing in its efficiency. It takes a philosophical topic that is in every way foreign to the modern Western mind. It provides history, philosophy, practice and art criticism - in 201 pages total! The book is easy to consume but satisfying in its content. p.s. I love the topic.
“Paradoxical as it may seem, the purposeful life has no content, no point. It hurries on and on, and misses everything. Not hurrying, the purposeless life misses nothing, for it is only when there is no goal and no rush that the human senses are fully open to receive the world.”
But to the mind which lets go and moves with the flow of change, which becomes, in Zen Buddhist imagery, like a ball in a mountain stream, the sense of transience or emptiness becomes a kind of ecstasy.+ various analogies between {relaxing central laserfocus vision to allow for more peripheral vision} & {replacing conventional Western linear thought-patterns with more wu-wei, using the "peripheral" or "non-grasping" mind}(Taoism & Zen as interpreted by Watts seems like a way as good as any to find out more about why I've for a long time had much more sympathy for many Eastern concepts than for, well, mostly forms of Christianity with focuses on ego and hierarchy and control, with God as some entity/concept, "the ultimate boss" relevantly distinct from naturecosmos'verse.)The "Zen type" is an extremely fine type -- as types go -- self-reliant, humorous, clean and orderly to a fault, energetic though unhurried, and "hard as nails" without lack of keen aesthetic sensibility.
Còn nguyên sơ Thiền đã không cần văn tự, như câu nói của Đạt Ma Sư Tỷ Cô nương "Bất lập văn tự, giáo ngoại biệt truyền, trực chỉ Tánh người, biết được Tánh người, mới thành Phật được" đã cho thấy điều đó.
This is the first real exposure I've had to Alan Watts.
I've read a few books about Buddhism this year and I feel like this was, far and away, the best.
He covers a lot of ground in a little bit of time and he's a really gifted communicator.
Heady concepts become really understandable in his hands.
Considering most diehard fans of his I've met can be pretty head-in-the-clouds and/or dogmatically New Agey, I really appreciated how his treatment of Zen Buddhism was done in a down-to-earth, open-palm way.
Great and beneficial overview of both the history and philosophy of Zen.
According to Watts, Zen involves the breaking of the egoistic will (by letting go of its attempt to control) and following the principle of non-grasping to experience liberaion, "the aimless, self-sufficient life of the 'eternal now,'" and "seeing reality directly, in its 'suchness.'" One does not seek this end, for seeking is just another form of "grasping." "To put it another way," he writes, "one does not practice Zen to become a Buddha; one practices it because one is a Buddha from the beginning - and this 'original realization' is the starting point of the Zen life."That is the Zen life of meditation.
I have always had a good intellectual grasp of what was being put to me but somehow I didn't really have a sense of connection.
This book delivers that sense of connection.
It may be the wider reading I have done recently or my daily "practice" of meditation or Watts' incisive and distinctive style of writing or a combination of all and other factors.
This is a great book.
It was a pleasure to read and I learned a very great deal.
Watts is the man, I will be reading much more of this man's work; a truly great thinker and a writer of lucidity.

Great insights can be obtained while reading this book which is why I think it is worth a lot.
The beginning of the book I found a little hard to get trough because I had a hard time reconstructing the historical narative of Watts in my own mind, but fortunately it is sprinkled with clear toughts and great lessons.
The rest of the book was very readable to me.
You might even reach nirvana just by reading this book that sometimes has the quality of a guided meditation.I learned so much.
aaaaaaaaaaaaa yes this book right here
There are a lot of words in Hindi, Chinese, and Japanese, as well as in-depth discussions of philosophical musings on the self in cultures that are alien to me, where people spoke and wrote in languages I do not know, about things that I barely understand.But besides that, Mr. Lincoln, how was the play?I got through it, and I certainly have a better appreciation of just how different the Eastern mind is from the Western mind with regard to...reality, I guess.
Plato and Aristotle had a tremendous influence on Christendom, for example, and having been raised Catholic, I have inherited their world view.
Той има огромен принос за представянето и популяризирането на източната философия в западния свят, и по-точно на Дзен-будизма, но по един обективен начин, който не е нито твърде близо до Запада, нито твърде близо до Изтока.В продължение на повече от 40 години той написва над 25 книги, записва хиляди публични радио и телевизионни лекции и провежда поредица от семинари, свързани с философията на Индия и Източна Азия, със себеизразяването и индивидуалността...В книгата си „Пътят на Дзен” Уотс разглежда зараждането, растежа и разцъфването на Дзен – тръгнал от Индия, минал през Китай и стигнал чак до Япония.Япония е мястото, където Дзен разцъфтява като пролетна вишна и оказва влияние върху всички сфери на живот.
Watts non fa eccezione, ma si pone in una posizione precisa: fungere da ponte, in virtù della sua esperienza, tra la cultura orientale ed occidentale, cercando di colmare parzialmente quella distanza (in primo luogo semantica, come puntualizzato nella parte introduttiva) che rende ardua la comunicazione e dà spesso luogo a incomprensioni e travisamenti sul pensiero orientale, Zen nello specifico.
La prima è una curata introduzione storica, che introduce le maggiori religioni orientali da cui lo zen si è evoluto (Taoismo e Buddismo), coniugando la visione storica a una precisa esposizione filosofica (per non dire teologica) di queste dottrine, unitamente al loro impatto sul pensiero orientale.
Óptimo ensaio acerca do Budismo (em particular da corrente "Zen"), a história do seu surgimento e distinção, face ao Hinduísmo."Aqueles que sabem não falam;Aqueles que falam, não sabem.""De acordo com o convencionado, não sou simplesmente o que estou agora fazendo.
Sou também o que tenho feito, e a minha versão, convencionalmente estruturada, do meu passado quase chega a parecer mais o «eu» real do que aquilo que neste momento sou.
Porque o que eu sou parece extremamente fluído e intangível, enquanto que o que fui é fixo e final.
