https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26863057-age-of-myth
It seemed I already knew.Age of Myth opens with Raithe killing one of the Fhrey - a strong race of creatures deemed "godlike" and believed, until now, to be immortal.
Not only is Raithe wanted by the Fhrey, but he has also uncovered a dark truth - the Gods can be killed.The story also focuses on a seer called Suri, and Persephone, a widow destined to become the first female chieftain.
As I'm sure everyone here knows, this is my own book so I'm not going to be reviewing/rating it. But I do think people might be interested in its progression so here goes. Update 03/08/17:There is just three days left to get  Age of Myth  at 66% off it's regular list price. And thanks to the thousands of people who have already given the book a try!Update 05/06/17: I'm please to announce that Age of Myth is the  Audible Daily Deal. You can pickup a copy of the audio for less than $6 and that's a
And thanks to the thousands of people who have already given the book a try!Update 05/06/17: I'm please to announce that Age of Myth is the  Audible Daily Deal.
And Fantasy Book Critic has it listed as a "Noteworthy Release." Can't complain about any of these things, early reviews seem positive.
Hoping the book is a big success, I don't want to let down my readers, publisher, or others in the industry who are doing and saying such nice things on its behalf.Update: 06/07/16 - Preorder Bonus Material - My publisher (Del Rey), and I have teamed together to offer a number of perks for people who pre-order Age of Myth.
After this little incident, Raithe ends up with a sidekick named Malcolm.
Meanwhile over in Dahl Rhen, Persephone finds out her husband, the chieftan, Reglan has been killed by the fearsome bear - Grin the Brown.She is always there.
-THE BOOK OF BRINIt turns out a few people were killed or harmed that day.
Well, Grin seems to have killed many people in her time.
There is also a little girl in the village that came to Persephone and her name is Suri.
0_oI'm soooooooooooooooo glad I saw my friends reading this book at one time and I decided to get it from the overdrive library.
Audible 4th of July Deal Sale until 07Jul18 $5.954.75 We're all going to Die StarsRead with some of my fellow MJS lovers at Buddies Books and Baubles ஓ Why Should You Give A Book By Michael J Sullivan A Try??? ஓYou might be saying There are a million good and even great fantasy series out there so what makes this one worthwhile Robin?Well I’ll tell you potential MJS converts a few of the things I love about MJS’s writing in general and this book specifically. - Even though this is book one of hi
ஓYou might be saying There are a million good and even great fantasy series out there so what makes this one worthwhile Robin?Well I’ll tell you potential MJS converts a few of the things I love about MJS’s writing in general and this book specifically.① - Even though this is book one of his series the entire series is already written.
I am intrigued by the main players in the Fhrey cast and can’t wait to see how their story unfolds as well.There are also a lot of other great characters that have so much potential.
ARC provided by the publisher via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.Age of Myth is set 3,000 years before the the Riyria Revelations, but don't be scared because this series is meant to be read separately and there will be no spoilers if you haven't completed it or even started it.
Her old trainer and the woman that raised her, a well respected Augur named Tura, told Suri that if she ever got a vision like this, she had to tell it to the Chieftain of Clan Rhen.Then we have Persephone, who Suri tells her ill-fated premonition to, because she is the Chieftain's wife and he is out on a revenge mission to kill a bear that has caused a lot of pain in their village.
A reader pointed out to me that I had multiple reviews/updates threads going - Doh! I've merged them so No future updates to this. To see the updates you can go to this link.
After reading that opening sentence, you’ll probably think "what’s this dude talking about when he rated the book only 3.5/5 stars?”, let me enlighten you a bit on why and to do this, I'll have to compare my experience on Age of Myth with The Crown Conspiracy (the first book in 'Riyria Revelations' series) because the differences in experience are like heaven and hell.Coming into Age of Myth, I realized I will always be on the odd side of the fan base where I can’t bring myself to thoroughly love the first book of a series by Sullivan.
Just a quick re-read before the next book comes out:):):) First re-read rating *** 5 +++++***What was I thinking the first time, holding off with 0.25 points????
He writes a Classic Fantasy with easy humor and a brighter outlook, which is a breath of fresh air in a heavily populated by Grim-Dark genre.
Variety is the spice of life, even when it comes to our favorite things:-)So, I ordered the book knowing I will be satisfied with the results one way or another.
I've been wanting to read Michael Sullivan's books for some time and decided I'd start with Age of Myth after learning that it was the first book in a new series and in the Riyria world 3,000 years prior.
I loved all the characters including Raithe (God Killer), Malcolm, Suri & Minna, and Persephone.
There's something great about an author that can make me feel connected to characters and that's exactly how I felt when reading this book.
I felt like I had a good visual of the characters in my mind as well.
Humans are known as the Rhune, and their society is at primitive, pre-Iron Age stage (a copper sword is a Very Big Deal), living in clans in villages.
The arrival of Raithe and other strangers at Dahl Rhen may affect both the internal conflict and the larger one looming with the Fhrey.Age of Myth is epic fantasy based on familiar European culture and folklore, though from an earlier era than most fantasy novels.
Set 3000 years before the timeline of Riyria Revelations, the series aspires to set the record straight and tell the truth behind the myths shrouding the First Empire's creation !Age of Myth's stunning cover, designed by Marc SimonettiBeing a huge fan of the Riyria Revelations and Chronicles, it was pretty obvious for me that I would seek to read every story Michael J.
Since I rated this book 4 stars, I feel it's important to mention that though I enjoyed the read and had a lot of fun diving into old Elan, both the plot and the writing were pretty simple.
It hardly mattered that this story actually takes place thousands of years before the Riyria Revelations and the Riyria Chronicles, well before the beloved characters of Hadrian and Royce even existed; I just couldn’t wait to revisit the world of Elan again.For readers new to Sullivan’s work, this would also be an excellent starting point.
Age of Myth is the first novel of new series of five books called The Legends of the First Empire, set in the same world of Riyria, but you need no prior knowledge of any of Sullivan’s books to jump right in.
Simply put, Michael Sullivan turns the ancient history of this place on its head, presenting these legendary figures and events in a more realistic way: the heroes’ personalities, their motives, and their actions not nearly as mythical or epic as the Riyria stories suggested.
And our close-up look at the Fhrey doesn’t disappoint, as these beings are filled with magical majesty; so much so, in fact, that their unabashed arrogance nearly seems warranted, especially in comparison to the primitive, clannish Rhune.As for the characters themselves, this novel is filled with a large cast of them from Raithe, Malcolm, Persephone, and Suri to several of the Fhrey themselves.
Let me concur with all my friends' five star reviews and tell you that this world, these characters, this story, is friggin awesome.As a prequel that requires no prior knowledge of the setting, the Legends of the First Empire series plays in the same world as the Riyria Chronicles, only many centuries before when ordinary humans ("Rhunes") lived in fear of their long-lived cousins, the Fhrey.
The way an author approaches modern issues in a fantasy world is always a good indicator of writing skill; Sullivan really hit the ball out of the court with his take on feminist icons in the man's world he has created.
Looking forward to Age of Swords.Book review.
Author review.You know how you sometimes don’t feel like reading a specific genre?
And it sucks.Luckily, once in a while an author comes along with juuuuuust the right remedy for your ailment.
That does not always happen though.
SullivanScientifically known as Authorus Magnificus or in layman’s terms, an auto-buy author, MJS has got what you need to banish that listlessness and slay that funk.
If you have any doubts though, pick up Theft of Swords the next time you feel that horrific little book funk curse sneaking up on you and see for yourself.
Set in the same world 3,000 years ago, the Legends of the First Empire series is the actual account of the historical events that will eventually lead to the story of our two favourite thieves.To take a quote from Michael J Sullivan’s recent blogpost:”Age of Myth is a small story that will launch an epic tale that will lay the foundations for a world where in three thousand years two thieves will uncover much of what was lost, but so many more revelations remain to be discovered.”True to his words, reading about and meeting these heroes and legends that shaped the Elan we know of in Riyria Revelations felt epic even though the story at this point was still relatively small in scale.
(hide spoiler)]As with the Riyria series, the characters in this book are those whom you want to know better and happily spend lots of time with.
There were indeed twists and turns - an impressive one at the end of the book - and it kept me listening (Audible) at every given opportunity.
The narration was spot on, too.Magic and 'gods' and a cool, bronze age setting that offered something different to the medieval norm (that I normally love, by the way), which makes a change.The characters are flawed and real and up and down emotionally, in a believable way.
The magic is powerful and the myths and legends and superstitions offer a realism to the world building that adds depth to the story.I'm crap at reviews, but if you haven't read Sullivan, remedy it asap.
My review and rating are based on the 2nd beta version of this book; the final published edition will likely be changed a bit.But not as much as you might think.
While it will need some tweaking to give it a more polished story, this book is pretty awesome as it is now.
Two, this won't be released for over a year by the time it gets the full publishing treatment - things about it could change.
And third, you need to read it for yourself.
I'm anxious to see an "improved" final cut of this work.
I read Sullivan's books in a weird order; I started with Age of Myth then moved on to Riyria.
The first time around I fell in love with this book, but reading it after Riyria was so much more enjoyable.
I also think this series is going to mirror Riyria Revelations in that what seems like a simple story will actually become much more complicated and intricate than we realize.
We obviously get a whole new cast of characters, since this story is set 3,000 years before Riyria Revelations.
While I love Royce and Hadrian, I think we're given a much stronger cast in this series.
First, of course, both series are by the same author, but being in the same world makes it hard to set aside Riyria when talking about Legends.
It's also just a fantastic series.I must admit that while I liked Raithe, he wasn't on the same level as Hadrian or Royce.
He still has plenty of time to develop as a character, but Hadrian and Royce are a special duo who are really hard to top.
Sullivan has a gift for writing female characters than some authors really haven't been able to do.
I was provided an ebook copy of this novel from the publisher through NetGalleyBut then I bought a first edition hardcover too :)Well, that took me a long time to finish, didn't it?
In between, I still had this book to savor.One of those commitments turned out to be another beta read, for the sequel, Age of Swords, reviewed here.
Well, I wasn't done with this one yet, but had a limited time to read the new beta version of book 2.
So many books don't seem as great the second time through.
All these notions are shattered like glass when a rock flies through it in the form of a human blade that kills a Fhrey.
What will happen to mankind when the Fhrey come to exterminate them?Age of Myth was a really enjoyable book, but it was a slow start for me.
A Fhrey is blessed naturally with long life, so long in fact they appear to never age to humans.
I'm not doing it justice, but it's clear that the clever young Suri thinks everyone from the dahl is a little bit off.Age of Myth was a pleasant surprise.
I have to point out that I haven’t read “The Riyria Revelations”, so there were too many strange unfamiliar names at the beginning, making it hard for me to connect with the story.The story was well-written and the author has a very nice writing style.
Many famous authors have influenced each other.
Unfortunately, I didn't find anything unique or original in "Age of Myth".Overall, I enjoyed reading this book and I think "Age of Myth" is a nice, entertaining and solid fantasy, but I don't really feel the urge to continue with this series.
Sullivan's fantasy, so all I'm bringing into it is what I know of the epic fantasy genre.That being said, a few themes really stood out, with Art-wielding immortals, the Fhrey, looking down upon the ignorant savages, the Rhunes, who are nothing of the sort, being tribes of normal humans taught to revere and fear the gods which inhabit the lands, with one new twist: A man named Raithe killed a god.It shouldn't have happened, and it sparked many questions and conflicts between the two peoples, kinda like the trigger of an avalanche, creating an eventually delightful mix of cultural and magical explorations, with both sides learning to be both more and less prejudiced with the other side.
(hide spoiler)]Most of the conflict that took place in this book was maybe wrapped up a little too neatly but there's obviously a storm-a-brewin'.
Add this to my list of must-read series.
Sullivan is a gift to humanity and writes the entirety of his series before releasing them so we don't have to worry about him dying before we have closure (this is my passive-aggressive complaint about several you-know-whos).Only not-really-complaint: (view spoiler)[ how great would it have been if Malcolm had been the one to take out Gryndal by smashing his head with a rock?!
(hide spoiler)]
Michael J. Sullivan is a gifted story teller! For those of us who have read his Riyria series, we of course already know this. But this author is no one trick wonder. This story was wonderful. The pacing, action, plot reveals, setting and context, the characters- all fabulous. For want of a better word, there is something 'friendly' about the authors style that is satisfying and heartwarming. And best of all, we are left with questions for the next installments to answer.
I'm glad to know that the rest of the series is already written, because I don't want to wait for the next book.Audiobook: Anyone whose read my reviews or had a recommendation from me knows how much I like Tim Gerard Reynolds.
There was a lot to setup with the start of a new series, even one in an already established world, but it was done quite well as usual.Mr. Sullivan's books have become my go to recommendation the last few years, because I rarely feel so good while/after reading a book.
I have never read any of Michael Sullivan’s novels, but it’s my understanding that this book is set in the same universe as some of his other series, only at a different point in time.
Regardless, it’s a standalone series and I didn’t feel like I was missing out on anything by not reading his other novels.
The complexities in this analogy being the in-depth character development and incredible world building.The novel starts with different point of view chapters for a variety of characters: Raithe, Persephone, Suri, and Arion.
If you don't enjoy great fantasy books, you may not enjoy this book (or his writing in general).Before I go further, I want to make it clear that I received an electronic copy of this book in advance of publication.
I loved every page.Before I read this book, I really enjoyed Michael J Sullivan's writing.
From the beginning where we are dropped into an action scene to the end where the pace is rapid, the author delights in developing the world.
This book does that.The plot: Wow. From the beginning of the book to the end, I enjoyed the book.
Buddy read starting today with some buddies at Buddies Books and Baubles Before reading the book A new series by MJSSo much YEEEEEEEEEEEEEEES The aftermath I finished this book two days back and I still can't get my mind off it completely. Second book, where are you? In short, this book is about Raithe who kills a god by accident (it might not have been a real god but just perceived as a god by the human race but never mind that now) and thus starts a rebellion. As epic fantasy with little gore
Buddy read starting today with some buddies at Buddies Books and Baubles
Before reading the book
In short, this book is about Raithe who kills a god by accident (it might not have been a real god but just perceived as a god by the human race but never mind that now) and thus starts a rebellion.
Suri, Seph and Raithe were great characters and I can't wait to read more about them.
But now here is the good thing - the entire series is already written, so we won't have to wait forever until we find out what happens.
