https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/764057.Autobiography_of_a_Schizophrenic_Girl
Şizofreniye yakalanmış kişilerin kendilerine ait bir dünyaları olduğunu, algılarının normal insanlara kıyasla farklı olduğunu, iletişim kurulması zor hatta zaman zaman saldırgan kişiler olduklarını birebir deneyimlemediysek de birilerinden duymuş, hastalıkla ilgili iyi kötü fikir sahibi olmuşuzdur ama öyle sanıyorum ki hemen hemen hiçbirimiz bu tür hastaların şizofrenik dünyalarını yöneten sanrılar üzerine düşünmemişizdir.
Yine de bizler de potansiyel birer hasta olabilme ihtimalimiz yüzünden ya da sevdiğimiz kişilerin böyle bir hastalığı genlerinde taşıyor olma ihtimalinden veyahut çevremizdeki hastalara faydalı olamasak bile onlarla empati kurabilmemizi sağlayacak olma ihtimalinden dolayı bu kitabı herkesin okumak isteyebileceğini düşünüyorum.
Bu bölümde olan biten herşey gerçekten çok ilgi çekici hatta daha doğru bir ifadeyle; sarsıcı.
Evet zor insanlar, yanyana durmak ve iletişime geçmek oldukça zor ama gerçekten çok büyük kötülük onlardan uzaklaşmak ve onları bir anlamda tecrit etmek, izole etmek.Dedim ya enteresan bir hastalık bu şizofreni.
Aklımda kalan en garip şeyler-Bir kere görüşleri bizimkiler gibi değil.
Çok tarif edemiyor kızcağız yaşadığı tecrübeyi ama anladığım kadarıyla çok eski bir fotoğrafmış gibi görüyorlar dünyayı.
Çünkü sürekli ve hatta ömürleri boyunca ağır bir suçluluk duygusuyla yaşıyorlar.
Onlarsa ömürleri boyunca (Renee'nin durumunda 5 yaşında başlamış farklılaşmalar) yaşıyorlar bu duyguyu ve hatta kendilerini cezalandırmaya kadar gidiyorlar ki tam da bu noktada başlıyor kendi kendilerine acı verme vakaları.Birde şunu unutmamak lazım.
Bu korkulacak, ölümcül bir hastalık değil.
This is the story of Renée, a young Swiss woman suffering from schizophrenia. At age five she first began to experience what she called Unreality. Initially Unreality happened only occasionally, as when her playmates suddenly seemed to swell or shrink until she didn’t recognize them, or when the nearby school took on the aspect of a prison, or when the local valley seemed to stretch like an endless desert suffused with a brilliant, oppressive light. In time, however, Unreality appeared more oft
Initially Unreality happened only occasionally, as when her playmates suddenly seemed to swell or shrink until she didn’t recognize them, or when the nearby school took on the aspect of a prison, or when the local valley seemed to stretch like an endless desert suffused with a brilliant, oppressive light.
I was fully content, with a passive contentment, the contentment of a tiny baby, quite unconscious, for I did not even know what caused it.There followed a series of “regression sessions,” with much trial and error, starting with a return, during a painful physical illness, to the fetal state, in which Renée was doped up on morphine and placed by Mama in a room suffused with soothing green light.
I learned a whole lotta nothing regarding "formative ego mechanisms in the psychotherapy of a schizophrenic." Huh? What? There was something about apples and then suddenly Renee is healed on page 89. On the positive side of things I found this book in the bottom of a box of old records so it was free. Score, sort of.
Sometimes I shook the grating as though there were no other way out, like a madman, I thought, who wanted to return to real life.For the street seemed alive, gay and real, and the people moving there were living and real people, while all that was within the confines of the yard was limitless, unreal, mechanical and without meaning: it was the nightmare of the needle in the hay.I caught myself in this state only in the yard, never in class.
And when one of my schoolmates came toward me, I saw her grow larger and larger, like the haystack [in Renee's nightmares].[...]During class, in the quiet of the work period, I heard the street noises - a trolley passing, people talking, a horse neighing, a horn sounding, each detached, immovable, separated from its source, without meaning.
Anne diye hitap ettigi, psikologu Sechehaye’nin yillar suren tedavi edici calismalari baslar.Sechehaye, 1963’de 10-15 yillik klinik deneyimlerini “Simgesel Gerceklestirmenin Ilke ve Yontemleri” adli bir calismada toplamistir.Asagida ki paragraflar, kitapdan sevdigim, beni etkileyen bolumler:“Yalnizca gercegi yitirip, Aydinlanma”nin insanlik disi, acimasiz ulkesinde yillarini gecirmis olanlar yasama sevincini gercekten tadabilir ve insanligin bir parcasi olmanin paha bicilmez degerini kavrayabilirler.”“Gercek yasamda anneden vazgecmek zorunda kalinca bu dayanilmaz ozveriyi imgeleminde, eger deyim yerindeyse, kendi kendinin annesi olarak, baska bir deyisle otizm’e siginarak kapatmaya calismistir.”“Bir takim nesnelerle iliski halinde olan bolumlerinden bazilari artik libido enerjisiyle beslenememektedir.
La dott.ssa Sechehaye riesce a curare la paziente grazie alla tecnica della Rappresentazione simbolica, basandosi sulla principale causa della malattia mentale in genere e della schizofrenia nel particolare: la mancanza o insufficienza di amore materno.
Quando l'Io non è più investito dell'energia libidica, proveniente dall'introiezione dell'amore materno, le forze autodistruttive hanno il sopravvento".Utile per chiunque studia o lavora con la malattia mentale, per avere un punto di vista diverso, più che per l'analisi del caso che viene fatta, per avere il punto di vista del paziente, cosa rara nella letteratura psicologica.
Renee adlı şizofreni teşhisi konulmuş bir hastanın günlüğü üzerinden giden aslında bir nevi tanı-araştırma-kurgu tarzı psikoloji kitabı bu kitap.
Renee, çocukluk döneminden itibaren şizofreni ve otizm yaşamış ve Dr. Sechehaye'nin tedavisi sayesinde atlatmış hastalığını.
Renee'nin sorunu aslında biraz da sosyopatliga yakın, toplumdan korkuyor.
Biraz da odipal dönemde takılıp kalmış durumda.
Hâlâ annesine muhtaç bir kız o.
Biri ona "Sen şunu yap" derse inanılmaz acılar çekiyor içten içe.
Ama "Renee şunu yapmalı" dediğinde yapıyor, hatta memnun oluyor.
Zamanla hastalığını atlatıyor ve biz de Dr. Sechehaye'nin anlatısı ile süreci okuyoruz.
Psikoloji kitapları ilgisini çekenlere tavsiye ederim.
Written from the perspective of a young girl losing her grasp on reality, this may a difficult read to follow along at times.
Here's a nice quote:“During the earliest attacks of Fear and intense unreality, I sometimes uttered these unconscious and shocking words: 'I should prefer to escape into madness to avoid this consuming fear.' Alas, I did not know what I was saying.
In my ignorance I believed that madness was a state of insensibility where there was neither pain nor suffering nor joy, but particularly, no responsibility.
Never, for one instant, has I even imagined what 'to lose one's reason' actually meant.”
The story of Renée, a girl suffering from psychosis, and how she was treated with a modified psychoanalytic method. After identifying the deprivations Renée experienced in early life Sechehaye started working using Piaget's Stages of Cognitive Development and Freud's Stages of Psychosexual Development to achieve a better, healthier outcome of the development stages and overcome the original frustration that lead to her Ego's disintegration. A very demanding method, but apparently a successful one.
The first part of the book was great. It was the actual memoir from Renee that delved into her mind as a schizophrenic. I skimmed through the last 40 pages or so because all it contained was the case notes from her psychoanalyst. It was really jarring to go from this deeply personal account to a cold, clinical description of the illness with a lot of medical jargon. I liked the book a lot overall though.
this was a book written by a very insightful woman/girl. it's almost strange how she captured the nature of her illness. her analyst amazed me at her process with the patient. the explanation at the end about the patient's ego disintegration was interesting and made me feel like i was in grad school again. however, at times it did seem a little bit like mental masturbation. also, i wonder about the role of medication with this girl/woman at the time. all in all, a fascinating read.
Libro interessantissimo (e angosciante): l'autrice narra in prima persona la discesa nella malattia mentale, rivelandone i meccanismi davvero angoscianti. La schizofrenia è una malattia tremenda, che punisce il malato come se fosse in un girone infernale. La cosa affascinante, in modo terribile ma comunque affascinante, è che è il suo stesso cervello a creare il girone dantesco e a chiudercelo dentro. La mente umana è davvero un universo insondabile.
While I'm sure the girl's account of her experience is by all means accurate it wasn't necessarily interesting, which I suppose she can't be faulted for. The analysis at the end of the book seemed a bit dated and perhaps a bit too Freudian, which was disappointing. All in all it just wasn't for me.
I really liked this book. Not sure how useful it is from a clinical standpoint, but for me it was a very interesting to read the first-hand account of someone dealing with extreme mental illness. Very quick and enjoyable read
Valuable for the detailed, almost visionary descriptions of how light and space and time appeared to her when she was most lost.
The setting is France and it was initially published in 1951, and the psychoanalyst who writes up a case interpretation at the end apparently treated her much earlier than then, my guess is in the 40s.
Renee's memoir in the beginning sounds very much like it was influenced by the interpretation and the pyschoanalysis and is quite distinct from more recent memoirs by those suffering from the disease.
It makes me wonder if that was a correct diagnosis, or just that she imbibed the only available interpretations of the time period.
This book has its moments.
The diagnosis of schizophrenia is almost certainly wrong.
It sounds like the patient had psychotic depression and would have been spared a lot of suffering if she had gotten a good course of electroconvulsive therapy.
However, regardless of the underlying diagnosis, the book has some first-hand descriptions of catatonic psychosis that are both eloquent and revealing, and that is a very rare thing.
Now, when I wonder what my non-communicative patients may be experiencing, at least I will be familiar with one possibility.
I am glad I saw this on Goodreads and read it. Renee tells the story of her illness in a way that is very powerful and engaging. The way she describes what is happening and her thoughts and feelings are amazing. It really gives the reader a glimpse into psychosis in a way other books on the subject don't. The Interpretation section of the book however, is a bit of a challenging read, steeped deep in Freudian thinking. Its greatest fault IMO is that it doesn't give a time frame so one cannot gauge how effective the 'cure' really is.
Before starting, I should have hit some psychology books to brush up. Still, there was a lot to take from Renee's recollections of her struggle with schizophrenia. The way she described her illness was both harrowing, and eye opening. The glimpse into mid 20th century psychology is obvious, given the deeply Freudian language her analyst used to describe her treatment. Whether the treatment was outdated or not, it clearly helped Renee. This was a fascinating read because of the view of a skewed perspective.
Through this book I got a deeper insight into how patients with Schizophrenia experience hallucinations and the other symptoms of this disorder, which are difficult to imagine from textbooks. The only aspect I didn't enjoy much was the psychoanalytic therapy, because from my point of view it seemed as Renee was too much dependent on the therapist for everything and I got the impression that she recovered from the illness not because of therapy, but because of the natural course of the illness. The writing style was sometimes less fluid, but given the time and narrator it's understandable.
Although there is clearly a lot missing from the autobiographical section of the book it still gives a clear perspective of what life with schizophrenia is really like. The analysis and treatments described are all completely out of date but probably still worth reading just to see how much our understanding of schizophrenia and psychology in general has changed. An updated interpretation and more information on the later years of Renee's life would be interesting.
A girl with pretty severe schizophrenia is able to recall and articulate her experience of psychological decompensation after she has not only returned to stability, but is in remission from the illness. This insider's view of schizophrenia is very rare in what it is and very powerful. Her psychoanalyst's afterword is, not surprisingly, pretty heady and may not be interesting to someone who hasn't studied psychology extensively. (I found it hugely fascinating!)
Perhaps becuase this book is told mainly (their was some help from her therapist) from the point of veiw of the actual mentally disturbed/ill girl it has little narrative coherence. It does not make for easy reading, and though they may have intended it to be that way I believe it was a poor choice.
A true first-person account of what happens within the mind of the schizophrenic. Renee details what she felt, imagined, saw, during her sickness and recovery. Followed by a psychiatric analysis of the period, this is a fascinating book for those who want to know more about the experience of mental illness.
İçimi kıpır kıpır yapan, tespitlerimin ve de okuduklarımın ötesinde beni memnun eden, Aspen'i doğru yansıtmış olduğumu fark ettiren bir kitap. Renee ve Anne'nin ayrı notları beni daha çok mutlu etti. Bayan Sechehaye'ın bazı notlarını anlamamış olsam da bunu alana çok hakim olamama yordum. Psikololoji, üstelik şizofreni ile ilgilenler bence muhakkak okumalı.
I didn't like this book at all. Half the book is written by a girl with schizophrenia (who recovered) describing her feelings at the time. The other half is written by her therapist. The part written by the patient didn't ring true to me and seemed endlessly repetitious. The part written by the therapist was dull and hard for me to understand.
I read this a long time ago, but it's the first "crazy person memoir" I read, which is now probably my favorite sort of book there is. And this one is great because it's actually written by a person who went through serious mental illness and came out the other side. There is also a lot of info in it from her therapist too.
Incredible. Some very hardcore psychology, hard for a layman to follow, but some unbelievable experiences documented regarding the disintegration of the Self, the Ego, and the healing of a mind previously unable to decipher the difference between the "world without" and the "world within."
It was a nice book. It pictured the mere idea of what an schizophrenic person undergoes. I didn't read the interpretation part since it is outdated. Overall, the book is a nice piece of literature to read and learn a little from it. I also believe that the translation had some issues.
