https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28763.His_Master_s_Voice
But obviously if one knows that pi can be calculated to any degree of precision required, the number in any decimal place is known with little effort.
This trivial exercise summarises a fundamental problem in information theory: how does one know that apparently random noise isn’t really a communicative signal?
The human need to find meaning seems insatiable, even when - especially when - there is no equivalent to pi to be found, no key except that which we impose without sufficient reason in line with our obsession.Lem doesn’t solve the paradox of meaning of course; he merely documents it in a particularly interesting way.
The book raises several intriguing possibilities about the nature of the message and its content, but ultimately (and I like this part) the mystery remains unresolved.
The book is not a silly story about establishing communications with aliens.
I did not agree with some of the specific arguments raised in the book and I think the story was not as fleshed out as it could have been, but I admire what Stanisław Lem tried to do with this book; It is unique, intelligent, I support it, I like it, and I want more.
If you're the kind of person who seeks out authors based on George Clooney's starring film choices, you're going to be in for a bit of a surprise, because this novel makes that one look like "The Fast and the Furious" from an action perspective.Lem was always more concerned with ideas and telling stories that allowed those ideas to coagulate and circle each other and debate.
Jako komplikovana i kompleksna knjiga. Komplikovana zbog dve stvari. Prva je nacin pisanja a druga jer je stalno na granici da postane kakva naucna disertacija. I pored toga, uz povremenu upotrebu googla, vise ju je nego zanimljivo citati. Ovo delo vas tera na razmisljanje i poseduje neke od najvisprenijih metafora na koje sam nailazio. Jako zrelo delo. A poruka je vise nego jasna, barem ona po meni najvaznija, svako ce u necemu nepoznatom videti ono sto najvise zeli. Ljudska vrsta nravno oruzje. *Imajmo na umu da su ovakva dela SFa pisana u vreme Hladnog Rata.
His Master's Voice is the story of a brilliant mathematician, working on a Manhatten Project-like in an attempt to decipher a signal from space.
The tale is set in cold war America, and includes a fairly pedestrian plot line around the possibility the signal contains instructions for a weapon, but the bulk of the book consists of the narrator's fundamental observations on life and the universe.I have always suspected Carl Sagan read this book before he wrote "Contact" as the high concept remains...It is one of the best book I have read, and a book for those who love the struggle and satisfcation of a truly awe inspiring read.
The best minds of the democratic West are assembled to try and crack its mystery, including the mathematician narrator, whose main role turns out to be that of skeptic, providing the counters to each of the arguments forwarded by his fellows.
Whether those truths turn out to be positive or negative in their effects, depends entirely on what man does with the knowledge.
The ideas were fascinating, but I couldn't give it 5 stars since it reads as a digest of ratiocination about scientific observation and objectiveness (undermined by quantum mechanics and the Uncertainty Principle).
It's as dry as a scientific treatise.
Lem's brilliant ability to misdirect the reader toward an ultimately unachievable goal of understanding is present and accounted for in His Master's Voice.
I had three issues with His Master's Voice.One, the characters were a little flat.
While the ideas they present are often engaging, the way they do so feels, as I said above, flat.Two, the monologue/dialogue sections were a little overused.
While Lem's work often includes a great deal of exposition, the amount in His Master's Voice is a little overwhelming.
Lo siento, voy tan de c*lo que no puedo hacer comentario. Quedaos con que está muy bien.
Of course, their argument is that the other side (the novel was written in the times when there were just two superpowers - the U.S. and the Soviet Union) is probably also working to decipher the message and convert its contents into a super-weapon.
Written in pre-Internet times, "His Master's Voice" reads like an absolutely contemporary novel; it could have been written last year.
The translation from Polish by Michael Kandel is superb.I have left what is the best for me for last - "His Master's Voice" does not read like fiction.
Stanislaw Lem is a good author.But his science fiction reads more like philosophical fiction.There i
Das ist ein sehr faszinierendes Buch. Vieles was über die Humanwissenschaften und an gesellschaftlichen Auffassungen da verbreitet wird, findei ch zwar schli9chtweg falsch, aber das philosophieren über die bedeutung der alien-botschaft und das aufstellen und verwerfen von hypothesen, das ist richtig mitreissend. auch wenns stellenweise schwer zu lesen ist und zeitweise in naturwissenschaftlich-technischm gebrabbel versinkt. eigentlich gefällt mir vieles an dem buch nicht. aber man muss es lesen. volle punktzahl!ich hab das hier mal weitergedacht: http://zweitgurk.wordpress.com/2012/0...
Grande Lem.
The extended musings about the nature of the main character's character - somewhat interesting in their own right, but like the rest of the book, dense beyond dense prose - set me up for a very different kind of story than what arrived.Lem's thought experiments lead in unique directions which will forever color my thinking regarding any other SF which uses the Message From Outer Space trope.
The points Lem makes about organizational anti-competence and the nature of communication are worthy explorations.
It was frequently boring (when it wasn't thought-provoking - as inconsistent a rollercoaster of worthiness I think I've ever encountered) and finishing it became a chore.
This is a science fiction novel – but it is only sort-of science fiction, and, for that matter, only sort-of a novel.It's in the form of a memoir – or musing – by a noted mathematician who worked in the upper levels of a secret government project code-named His Master's Voice – the purpose of which was to decode and comprehend a message, seemingly sent by intelligent beings from outer space, on neutrino waves.We are told from the outset that the project was not successful – no communication was set up, nor was the message even comprehended – but at the same time it had a major impact on society, technology, and more.So there isn't really any suspense in the book – or even all that much of a plot.
Here we have more of Lem's tragic scientists, deep characters whose interactions, as always with Lem, sometimes read like a novel of manners from another dimension.
His Masters Voice can feel like a series of disconnected essays on grand themes, but the whole thing adds up to a wrenching statement about the impossibility of knowledge and the human place in a vast universe.
Reading his books informs people what it was like to be a sensitive, thinking person alive in the latter half of the twentieth century, even if most of his stories take place on other planets or in other dimensions.
An epic book, in scope, if not in length.
Just short of a philosophical treatise on the origins and future of mankind, Lem weaves together a true arsenal of science fiction tropes and scientific knowledge of the day to paint a eerily realistic scenario that follows a discovery of an extraterrestrial signal.
The book starts out a bit slow - with the narrator explaining to the reader why he is the one who is narrating the said book - but it picks up from there and the plot has a steady ramp-up to the somewhat anti-climactic conclusion.
The story of a strange message from deep space and the scientists who attempt and fail to decipher it. Plenty of Lem's interesting theorizing, but totally lacking in the humor his other books have. Very slow and dreary. It's a short book, and still the story doesn't feel like it starts until it's half over. If I had a sharp stick, I would poke this book in the eye with it.
Think of it as the evil twin of "Contact," written twenty years later.In "His Master's Voice," a group of scientists identify a repeating signal being sent through space.
The novel takes the form of a memoir written by one of those scientists, Peter Hogarth.I don't think it's a spoiler to say that the project fails miserably, because that's stated at the beginning of the novel.
Unlike movies like "Contact," where the aliens sent a clearly understood and meaningful message, this signal is unfathomable.
I think it's a great novel because it dares to say what is probably more true than not; the idea that extraterrestrial life would be anything like human beings is ridiculous and egocentric.
This book is the story of an unsuccessful attempt to translate an alien signal encoded in neutrino radiation.
(The possibility of detecting or sending such a signal makes the book science fiction, given the elusiveness of neutrinos in the real world.) This is not a spoiler.
This seems to me to be a much more likely outcome of alien contact than otherwise.Lem does a really good job of imagining (or having his characters imagine) the different forms a message can take.
Mianowicie chodzi o pytania, podsuwanie odpowiedzi, niejednoznaczność i przemyślenia dotyczące postępu technologicznego, czy też eksploracji kosmosu.Z początku można być znudzonym lekko zbyt surowym hard s-f podanym w formie autobiografii uczestnika projektu Master's Voice.
Jest to jedna z bardziej filozoficznych powieści Lema, gdzie stawia się pytania na temat istnienia, kosmosu, obcych cywilizacji, tego jak postrzegamy świat, jak odczytujemy sygnały natury i co determinuje nasze poglądy.
Oczami osoby trzeciej bardzo łatwo nam zauważyć jak bardzo opisywane mechanizmy ludzkiego umysłu są pokrętne i jak tak naprawdę mało wiemy o świecie.
Antes de nada decir que Solaris y Fiasco son algunas de mis novelas favoritas, el como Lem nos traslada el fracaso humano ante la incomprensión de comunicarnos con otras razas.
La "multi-hipótesis" como motor de sus historias.La trama central de La voz del amo es la misma, pero aquí el ensayo filosófico vence por extensión abrumadora a la parte hard que me suele flipar del autor polaco.
Que sí, que en cada capítulo hay analogías e ideas sublimes, de las de subrayar, pero se entremezclan con partes que me han costado la vida leer.Y ahora si me preguntáis porque le he puesto 3 estrellas...
Serà complicat parlar sobre aquest llibre, ja que és un dels més densos que he llegit.
Està explicat com a les memòries del protagonista, Peter Hogarth, científic que participa en el projecte MAVO (Master’s Voice) per desxifrar el missatge que hi ha en un flux continu de neutrins.
Comencem per com vaig saber d’aquest llibre.Personalment, no se m’ha fet gens pesat, però jo ja coneixia aquest autor i la forma que té d’escriure.
Si no el coneixes, millor comença per Solaris, una història molt més assequible però que t’impregnarà de l’escriptura de Lem i et servirà d’ajuda si vols afrontar aquesta lectura.Ressenya completa a: https://estrellesdepaper.wordpress.co...
Lem asks absurd questions that somehow have relevance in reality and yet simultaneously asks relevant questions answered with absurd responses. All this he accomplishes without bludgeoning "why s", "how s", or "because s" but rather in a style that immerses the reader in his topsy-turvy world...one which somehow still makes sense. It's a science fiction novel that simultaneously:_has virtually nothing but scientists as characters. (what a concept?!?)&_treats the science fiction genre in a condescending manner on, at least, a half dozen occasions.The result has moments of brilliance that can match, oh, say a guy like Vonnegut at his best.
Lem has inspired comments on science in the real world: the creeping insular bias of a particular scientific field,  the institutional bias of modern science,  the troubled relationship between science and its government (often military) funding sources,  and the impossibility of a really "objective" science. To reread for sure. I'll go read some more of Lem's books for the time being..
On one hand, this book can be described by a simple phrase: A masterpiece by one of the greatest masters of science fiction. But on the other hand, my strong opinion is that it can't and needn't to be described, as it is such a highly intellectual piece of literature, full of phylosophy and wisdom, that you need to let it through yourself to understand, and after that, I'm pretty sure you will feel shocked and astonished but at the same time have peace in your mind, like I did.
I've been trying to read this for about 8 years... it's one of those "you can borrow it" books that I never gave back. It was quite good, and I found it surprisingly free of the one-dimensional Cold War cliches that seem to be so common in retrospect. Sometimes it's difficult to tell what's an allegory or metaphor, and sometimes the internal musings get a bit clunky ... BUT I still liked this a whole lot.
Really thought provoking. On the surface, it's a sci fi story about a mysterious signal in space that seems to be from an intelligent alien species and has some interesting properties. But the real bulk of the story seems to be the internal dialogue of the lead scientist who's on a secret government project trying to crack the code and his thoughts about scientific research & man's search for meaning & life itself. A little dry in parts, but this is deep stuff.
Stanislaw Lem is, to my knowledge, the writer of the best science fiction to appear in English translation from a Warsaw Pact country. His approach is a bit like Philip Dick, a bit like Borges--intellectual, wryly humorous.
this book is a mental meat grinder
Rimta knyga. Mokslinė-filosofinė fantastika, tikrai ne nuotykinė. Be to, reikia nepamiršti, kad parašyta 1968 metais.
