https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/143285.The_Penal_Colony_and_Other_Stories
Picking up the complete stories of Kafka will give you more than this one will, but this is a pretty fine collection.
The parables are missing, which are some of my absolutely favorite things Kafka ever did and which are in the complete stories collection.
I guess on the plus side though, I ended up re-reading a lot of Kafka stories that I might have only read once if I had approached him in the efficient manner.
The story is set in an unnamed penal colony and opens with an officer showing an explorer a remarkable apparatus, a capital punishment machine.
He is an enlightened modern naturalist and relativist, trained to observe and analyze dispassionately the customs of diverse cultures.So, the explorer is introduced to the machine that is the central edifice of the colony’s structure by an officer extremely loyal to the former commandant’s administration of the colony.
The prisoner is thus literally forced to feel the pain of his punishment, in a ritual that lasts twelve hours.The officer explains to the explorer that this form of execution has no open supporters left in our colony.
"There has never been a time in which I have been convinced from within myself that I am alive.
You see, I have only such a fugitive awareness of things around me that I always feel they were once real and are now fleeting away.
I have a constant longing, and my dear sir, to catch a glimpse of things as they may have been before they show themselves to me.
I feel that then they were calm and beautiful.
It must be so, for I often hear people talking about them as though they were.” Franz Kafka, conversation with the supplicant
'the burrow' rules.
Kafka’nın öykülerinden oluşan Ceza Kolonisinde ve Diğer Öyküler hafif hafif esintilerle başlayarak bir fırtına haline gelen bir öykü kitabı.
Kitabı daha çok “Akademi İçin Bir Rapor” hikayesi için aldım.
Bir yerde çok basit bir cümle ile bahsedilen hikâyeyi okumak istedim, fakat kitaptaki diğer birkaç hikâye de Akademi İçin Bir Rapor’dan aşağı kalmaz.
Eski inançlarını kaybetmişler; rahip evinde oturur, ayin giysilerini art arda lime lime eder; fakat hekim ameliyat yapan elleriyle her şeyi başarabilmelidir.” Hafif bir durgunluktan sonra “Çakallar ve Araplar” ile devam ediyor fırtına.
Tam, tüm kitabı okumama değen bir şey okudum derken Ceza Kolonisinde öyküsü başlıyor.
This was actually a reread from college, same edition of the book I had so it brought back memories. A great addition to a recent trip in Prague where Kafka lived and so many references as we toured around the city. We even visited a museum that was completely devoted to him and his work. What an imagination!
"Perché noi siamo come tronchi d’albero nella neve. In apparenza, sembrano solamente posati e con breve sollecitazione si dovrebbe poterli smuovere. No, non si può, perché sono stretti forte alla terra. Ma, attento; anche questa non è che apparenza." (Gli alberi, p. 32)
Loved all of it. From what I can remember, I most enjoyed:Conversations with the Supplicant; On the Tram; A Report to an Academy ; In the Penal ColonyLOVED, LOVED: First Sorrow; A Little Woman; A Hunger Artist and Josephine the Singer, or the Mousefolk
Kafka soporta cualquier tipo de edición y traducción.
Okunmadığı takdirde herhangi bir eksiklik olacağını düşünmüyorum.
It contains the longer stories of Conversation with the Supplicant, The Penal Colony, The Metamorphosis, The Judgment, A Hunger Artist, and A Country Doctor.
Near the end of his life, Kafka spoke to his good friend Max Brod, and told him that, ‘Of all my writings the only books that can stand are these: The Judgment, The Stoker, Metamorphosis, Penal Colony, Country Doctor, and the short story: A Hunger Artist…’ In fact, Kafka had asked his friend to destroy the rest of his writing, but Brod had plainly told him that he would do no such thing.
Kafka’nın öyküleri ve anlatılarını okumak, onu daha iyi anlamak için önemli bir dönemeç. Ceza Kolonisinde öyküsü ise Kafka’nın dert edindiği şeylerin birçoğunu muazzam şekilde özetliyor. 3,5/5
Well, I tried to read this collection. The first story, Conversation With the Supplicant, started off promisingly but I ultimately found it tedious and a little bizarre. The next section entitled Meditation, was a series of short essays (really, they just seemed like random thoughts) that today would be considered politically incorrect, such as the piece called The Wish to be a Red Indian. I also read The Judgement, which was a rather self-conscious tale, before giving up on page 67 (where The Metamorphosis begins). Having read The Metamorphosis before, I decided that Kafka is just not for me.
I was pleasantly surprised by my first ever read of Kafka, especially the unfinished travelogue. I did feel though that the translation was a little heavy-handed, which is why I've come down with a 4 star rating. But Kafka himself turned out to be much more sentimental than I had ever thought (or learned to think), and yet his tales remained captivatingly dramatic, poignant, and often times humorous. A very good read!
I didn't enjoy this nearly as much as I'd hoped. I am, however, willing to give Kafka the benefit of the doubt and chalk some of that up to the translation, which was a tough slog. "Metamorphosis" is still a pleasure to read, but at the end of the day, I guess I'm still a junkie for plot and climax, which these stories only deliver in small amount.
Powerful philosophical allegory! On so many levels--political, moral, religious. I am indebted to Arnold Weinstein (Brown University) and Hercert Czernak (Amerika Institut, Vienna, Austria) for sharing their profound insights on this work.
Quatre étoiles pour la colonie pénitentiaire, mais seulement deux pour les autres nouvelles.
Had never read Kafka before and all I can say is, while his work might be slightly difficult to read; he can write well. The way he makes imaginary words so real is just awesome.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/12942256
Ecriture courte et saccadée, mais pas moins riche en émotions.L'auteur sait en quelques lignes exprimer des émotions obtenues au bout de 300 pages, j'ai adoré !Nouvelle découverte !
Ooh... Kafka's the best. I never tire of the penal colony, the bucket rider, the hunger artist, or the imperial message that is never going to get here.
One of the great short story writers
metamorphosis 5, penal colony 5, the judgment 5
This time through I found these stories almost unbearably sad. I don't remember being so affected by them when I read them in class last year.
