https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3302841-the-curious-case-of-benjamin-button-and-other-jazz-age-stories
I didn't like this short story.
But it was short, sad, and I could not willingly suspend my disbelief regarding how people reacted to Benjamin, from the doctors in the beginning to his very own family throughout.
It read more like a synopsis than a story -- Fitzgerald doesn't explore any of Benjamin's relationships; it's more like a play-by-play of each decade of Benjamin's life.
The one part that I did like about the story was the end, Benjamin from "ages" 15 through 1.
Reading it felt like going from black and white to full color, or watching a time-lapse film of a plant sprouting backwards in fast motion.
I'm confused about this book...so, I'll not rate it. First of all I'm not crazy about Fitzgerald. The stories are...hmmmm...just simply not interestig to me. A second reason - I was listening to audio book and I hated a reader's voice. Eventually, I think that not every book works in an audio version...at least for me.
„- Ești exact la vârsta cea mai romantică, continuă ea. Cincizeci de ani. Douăzeci și cinci e prea cinică și sofisticată; treizeci e numai bună pentru paloarea excesului de muncă; patruzeci e vârsta poveștilor lungi, care durează cât un trabuc fumat în întregime; șaizeci e... ah, șaizeci e prea aproape de șaptezeci; dar cincizeci e cu adevărat floarea vârstei. O ador.”„Mintea lui ajunsese acea splendidă tabula rasa care rămâne uneori în urma educației universitare...”
If you're thinking about reading this because you loved the movie "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button", you may be disappointed.
Scott Fitzgerald's writing, you will enjoy these stories.
The reader needs to check the footnotes and Fitzgerald's comments are included for some of the stories after the footnotes.
Even when one takes into account the attitudes of Americans in the beginning of last century, these words can be offensive.
Some researchers believe he matured during his brief lifetime and he had begun to criticize this same attitude in other writers of his time.
In my personal opinion this short story is a good book for all women to read for a nice heart throbbing adventure because who doesn’t want to be swept away by a handsome pirate.The Four Fists: A good short story and only funny to those who like to see, or in this case read about a man getting hit.
This story confused me a lot so it is difficult to explain what happens but from what I did understand is that Samuel was a rude, selfish, and lustful guy and each punch taught him to become a better person.
I hate to waste a piece of stationery on you but I will."'Fitzgerald calls the story a "fantasy," and his own description of "trying the experiment upon only one man in a perfectly normal world" is a working definition of Magical Realism given back before MR had been invented as a genre.
A peep-hole into what the life of the non-conformist must have been like prior to the general acceptance of psychology as a science.Here is an example, a protest made by Benjamin Button's wife who is displeased that she grows older and less desirable as the opposite happens to her husband:'"I should think you'd have enough pride to stop it....There's a right way of doing things and a wrong way.
I would have given it five stars, but stories like "Tarquin of Cheapside" and "Jemina" make that impossible.
Still, it's a good collection of Fitzgerald's Jazz Age stories.
Speaking of the ToC, I really enjoyed Fitzgerald's original ToC for Tales of the Jazz Age. It was entertaining to read how he felt about his own work looking back on it years later.
Over all, I loved this collection because I love Fitzgerald's work.
His writing is beautiful, his stories are well-conceived, and his characters are funny, interesting, weird, and unique like people should be.
audiobook read by Grover Gardiner - I'd like to be more positive about these stories, but as the collection progressed, a single, sad thought kept coming to my mind - Fitzgerald really was a one hit wonder.
The titled story is pretty good, especially in concept.
But the story never goes too deep, and the supporting characters are more like backstops, there to bounce dialog and action off of, but never adding structure.
The stories are all surface, glitzy and wordy and overwritten, and if you try to look deeper, you'll discover Fitzgerald didn't go any deeper.
Oh, the things we will do to protect ourselves and our fortunes!"Benediction"...love that the brother and sister connected...but I want more!"The Offshore Pirate"...silly story...if someone lied to me like that, I certainly wouldn't love them in the end!"Dalyrimple Goes Wrong"...I don't know that any politician today could have a past like Dalyrimple, but if Dalyrimple is the only one that knows his dirty past then it's possible that he could get away with it...makes you wonder how much people get away with everyday!
I had been planning to read The Great Gatsby for years and picked up a copy when I was browsing a soon-to-close local Borders. This book was next to it, so I scooped up a copy of this as well. I'm probably the last person on the planet to fall in love with F. Scott Fitzgerald. What a writer! His sentences are so finely crafted and the stories are jewels to treasure. He so captures the era in which he wrote -- at least as far as I can tell. 0
The only story that truly interested me was the Curious Case of Benjamin Button. I read a few of the others but they seemed to end without ever stating a plot. I realize that they are short stories, but they seemed more like UNFINISHED stories to me.
شاهدت الفلم الذي اداه ببراعة الممثل الرائع براد بترغم الخيال الخصب و الفكرة انني لم اصل الى المغزي لهالا ادري فعلا عن فكرة الفلم تبدو سهلة جدا و غامظة جدا في نفس الوقتجسد عجوز خارجي لينتهي العكسخيال جميل لكن لم ارى فكرة
Wonderful short story collection.
Like others who reviewed this edition, the stories were great but the editing was terrible. Actually bad enough to be distracting.
The Jelly-Bean: 1.5 stars This was my least favourite short story in the whole collection, which was pretty worrying considering that I read this one first. It didn't really appeal to me at all. I'm awarding it an extra 0.5 star because I did like the character of Nancy, I just didn't like her storyline or anyone's storyline for that matter. This was a poor story in my opinion and it's a real shame that it's the first one in the anthology. After reading this one, I must admit that I dreaded the
This was my least favourite short story in the whole collection, which was pretty worrying considering that I read this one first.
Chapter 4 in this story was probably the single most beautiful piece of writing in this entire anthology.
If you're looking for one single Fitzgerald story to read, this one would be a good option.
I look forward to reading more of Fitzgerald's novels in future because I have a feeling that those will appeal to me a lot more than some of these stories did.
Scott Fitzgerald's short story.
Anyway, Fitzgerald's story is good.
It's a light story, until its sad ending."The Diamond Big as the Ritz," the second story in this collection, is wonderful, and I'm glad they haven't "adapted it to film" yet so that maybe someday soon they can adapt it to film.
It's about a Trumpesque billionaire who owns a diamond the size of a mountain and the lengths he goes to to hide it from the world while supplying teachers and playmates to his children.
His father first discovered the diamond mountain when slavery was legal, and none of the slaves who continue to live on the mountain are aware that slavery has ended.
ნუ პირველ რიგში, ძალიან მიხარია ამდენი ხნის მერე რაღაც რომ წავიკითხე, კიდევ უფრო სასიამოვნოა ეს რაღაც ფიცჯერალდს რომ ეკუთვნის, ავტორს, რომელსაც საოცარი წერის სტილი აქვს, თითოეული მოთხრობა ისე მხატვრულად არის დაწერილი რომ შემთხვევით "შემოგეკითხება", ყველა მოთხრობა მსუბუქი სევდით და იუმორითაა გაჯერებული, რაც კიდევ უფრო სასიამოვნო წასაკითხს ხდის ამ საოცარი კაცის ნამუშევრებს. ❤
Save that, normally I can get to the end of a book before it comes apart in my hands.
Second book I've dropped in the bath, which is not bad, considering how frequently I read in the bath.
And considering I only read books in the bath I am not too attached to, I'm surprised it doesn't more often happen.
When I lived in Budapest I was starved for books to read.
Every month I would make a circuit of all the used-book stores that had a small 'English' section.
Sar în ochi diferențele – mai întîi de dimensiune, filmul pare să se fi bazat pe un roman, atît este de amplu și de populat, pe cînd povestirea este scurtă (anii trec repede în toate povestirile acestea de tinerețe ale lui Fitzgerald).
Parcă ar fi vorba de o alegere de viață, în luptă cu inerția, care se vede că îi repugnă scriitorului:„Social ieșea cu el, dar fără entuziasm, consumată deja de eterna inerție care vine să trăiască cu fiecare dintre noi într-o zi și rămîne pînă la final.”„Tarquin din Cheapside” – povestire derutantă (fiind scurtă se poate citi de două ori pentru clarificare :)), în stil elizabetan, așa cum îl cunoaștem din piesele lui Shakespeare.
If you are looking for a review of the entire book then others perhaps will be more helpful.I really liked the movie version of this story and it's what drew me to this (as I'm sure most people can attest to as well).
However, this story is so far removed from the movie that the only similarity it bears is the fact that Benjamin ages in reverse...no seriously, they have nothing in common.
There wasn't really enough in this story for me to comment further on, other than it helped satisfy a long curiosity of a movie's source.
Scot Fitzgerald did in his amazing story The Curious Case of Benjamin Button.
In other words Benjamin Button begins life at the wrong end and being already so close to the end, goes the other way.
This story goes through different phases from astonishing, through funny and heartwarming, to finally end in a deep sadness (the direction isn’t as important as one would originally imagine).
My only criticism could only be that I’m sorry Mark Twain didn’t have this inspiration (as I imagine with his homespun humor the story would be a literary epic).
If you want to look at your life circle; take a trip against the stream.
I thought Fitzgerald’s writing was clever and imaginative and moving and vivid.
I also think he’s a very sad, disillusioned, jaded, unhappy man.
The only other Fitzgerald book I’ve read was The Great Gatsby, but this mix of short stories confirms what I suspected about him.
His world view seems to be that anything that appears to be good is merely a façade over a darker truth, and that the only purpose of a relationship is to get something out of it.
There’s no hope in his writing, just weary despair.
I can’t say I’d recommend a steady diet of Fitzgerald, but he is talented and his work is worth reading.
As a whole, this collection of short stories is okay.
Individually though, some of these stories are phenomenal.
My favorites were:The Offshore Pirate,Head and Shoulders,Bernice Bobs Her Hair,The Four Fists,Porcelain and Pink,The Curious Case of Benjamin Button,And The Lees of Happiness.I would definitely recommend this collection, but beware, this tale of Benjamin Button is quite different from the movie.
The ploy is still the same, though.
A man aging backwards.F. Scott, I am happy to say, is still my favorite writer.
I don't know how he does it.
The lyrical prose can just turn your brain into mush, and even convince a nonreader to love literature.
There seems to be a number of versions of this book, all with different selections. The one I read contained the following stories, all of which I had read previously in other publications: 1)The Curious Case of Benjamin Button. This was one of my two favorites. Interesting and funny story about backwards aging. 2)Babylon Revisited. My other favorite. Really captures an era and the sad consequences of self-indulgence. 3)Three Hours Between Planes4)The Bridal Party5)The Lost Decade 3.5 stars overall, because I liked the first two stories so much.
For once, the film outdid the short story. A bizarre tale, which seems to me to cleverly mock adult expectations for their children specifically and life generally. It varies greatly from the movie; one possiblity could be that the book was about 50 pages long whereas the film added all kinds of bits to add up to almost three hours. The two are quite dissimilar, in fact, and I was disappointed in reading this knowing that F. Scott Fitzgeral was its author.
Enjoying this book so far, I forgot how much I used to enjoy Fitzgerald's stories, it has been a long time since I read him. But I really brought the book to read Benjamin Button, I loved the movie but it was a real stretch from the short story.It was breath taking, there was an emotional connection that made you keep reading until the last page. It's a beautiful story that can make you giggle or cry, but it's worth every last tear.
F. Scott Fitzgerald made his living as a short story writer, and The Curious Case of Benjamin Button and Other Jazz Age Tales collects four of his best.1.
The Curious Case of Benjamin Button and Other Jazz Age Tales by F.
"The Diamond as Big as the Ritz"A fanciful story - two young men, John Unger and Percy Washington, spend their boarding school summer together.
But the extreme wealth of his friend is so over the top that John is astonished by everything he sees.He falls in love with Percy’s sister, Kismine.
[it’s odd that she swaps them and doesn’t just take them.
I've read Great Gatsby and fell in love with Fitzgerald's writing style and vivid characters, but felt unsatisfied with the length of the novel and some of its pretensions.
Fitzgerald's own notes on some of his stories are there too and were a bit haunting to read his opinions (sometimes very blunt) in his own work.
As well, the silliness of some of the little plays were fun to read.
Many of the stories were written while he was in university and the youth and silliness reflect it while still being very, very beautiful.
The audiobook includes 4 short stories, "The Curious Case of Benjamin Buttons", "The Diamond as Big as The Ritz", "Tarquin of Cheapside", and "O Russet Witch".
Only the like bookends, only the first and last story are interesting, and I had to restart "O Russet Witch" because I was completely so bored by "Tarquin of Cheapside", that I still have no idea what that story was even about and didn't realize that a new story had begun.
In "The Diamond as Big as The Ritz", the "Negroes" have been told that the North and South have agreed to reinstate slavery.
It felt that I was simply starting another book, though of course the language and writing style is distintively Fitzgerald through and through.
The only drawback to these stories is that the reader should try to keep an open mind; the post-Great War era expressions and attitudes, in particular, about women and racism, would be quite offensive to some.
In all, I enjoyed this book in spite of some of the prejudices but appreciated the way Fitzgerald interpreted his generation and the myriad of shenanagans his characters were involved in.
