https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184356.History_of_the_Russian_Revolution
A Note About the AuthorPreface--History of the Russian Revolution Volume One: The Overthrow of TsarismChronological Table for Volume OneAppendix IAppendix IIAppendix IIIIntroduction to Volumes Two and Three--History of the Russian Revolution Volume Two: The Attempted Counterrevolution--History of the Russian Revolution Volume Three: The Triumph of the SovietsAppendix NoteAppendix I: Some Legends of the BureaucracyAppendix II: Socialism in a Separate CountryAppendix III: Historic References on the Theory of "Permanent Revolution"Chronological TableA Short List of Principal PersonsA Short List of Principal PlacesA Brief Glossary of Unfamiliar TermsA List of Parties and Political GroupsIndex
All Power to the Soviets!Written in three parts some years after the Revolution of 1917, Trotsky sets out to give a detailed history of the events of that year, combined with his analysis of what led to Russia being ripe for revolution at that moment in time.
His anger and scorn come through in every word, and, while the various overthrown Kings are shown as weak and contemptible, he puts much of the blame on the Queens in virulent, misogynistic prose.The whole establishment of the historical, political and philosophical background to the Revolution is excellent, so long as the reader keeps Trotsky's bias firmly in mind at all times.
One was Gibbon's Decline and Fall, the other Trotsky's History.
Additionally, as an even younger person, I even read condensed works of fiction--usually from Readers' Digests' books which Nanny, our paternal grandmother, had around her cottage in Michigan.All of this is mentioned as a kind of confession.
Indeed, by college, I wouldn't even read the portions of books assigned without finishing the rest of the work.
With Trotsky, I can only wonder...This notwithstanding, I found this condensed History a page-turner, enlivened by the fact that its author was a participant in many of the events he describes.
A phenomenal work of historical and political writing. Every bit as good as its reputation suggests. I'm chagrined I've been so delinquent in arriving at this title. Now that I'm in it; I am loving the experience. Superbly written; arcing in scope; chock full of razor-keen insight and observation. Here is Trotsky at the height of his elocution. What a mind the man had.
OK I really likes this book. The modestly told tale of Trotsky's personal life is beautifully woven with the monumental tale of the crisis of capital, war and the class struggle. The will of millions, the reviled heroes and honored betrayers all are summed up calmly and masterfully. The man writes like he lived- with an unshaken confidence in the course of human history.
The author quotes extensively from leading characters and documents of the time, always going on to explain his opinion of the text rather than leaving it to the reader to deduce for themselves, whilst at times this can become a bit jarring, it is extremly useful for a thorough understanding of the political spectrum at the time.In summary if you are looking for a casual overview of the Russian Revolution between February 1917 and October 1917, or simply for a detailed timeline of events, then this is not the book for you.
Let's get this out of the way - yes, Trotsky's history is self-serving, both as a defense of the October Revolution and as a prop for Trotsky's own status as a revolutionary.But this gets five stars for a number of reasons, first and foremost because Trotsky writes a gripping narrative that delves deep into the sociology that underpins 1917.
But the real treasure in this read is the historical significance - has any other prime mover of such a massive historical event written an analytical history of that event?
Trotsky's masterpiece and not only the greatest work of history, but a great work of literature. Aristotle, in the Poetics, said a gift for metaphor is the surest sign of literary genius. And Trotsky's gift for metaphor is second only to the likes of Shakespeare, Homer and Milton.
An unsurpassed contribution to history of the Russian Revolution in particular and to the Marxist analysis of history in general! The best book I ever read!
Jeg hadde ikke sånne forhåpninger.
Jeg er generellt ikke spesielt imponert av den trotskistiske retninga.
Men dette er ganske god marxisme, altså.Jeg liker virkelig godt hvordan han sammenligner forskjellige revolusjoner og opprør gjennom tidene, og systematiserer i stadier og faser, noe som gjør at det er en nyttig bok i forståelsen av andre opprør og revolusjoner av en hvis størrelse.
Jeg hadde stor nytte av den for å skjønne det egyptiske opprøret, foreksempel.
Han står nærmere Stalin På dette enn jeg trodde, mens han kritiserer Rosa Luxenburg og Spartakistene ganske hardt på deres "internasjonalistiske" linje.
Crystal clear, powerful, and magisterial account of the Russian Revolution by one of its prime movers. Trotsky’s admiration of Lenin’s vision and contempt for Stalin’s bureaucratic mind is delicious.
As both a history and an original source, this account of the Revolution gives readers a vital perspective on the interplay of events in Russia from the overthrow of the aristocracy in February to the seizure of power by the working class in October of 1917.
I had to read this book for a project, and it was certainly very helpful. It gave great insights into the Russian Revolution in great detail. It made me realise things about the Russian Revolution that I would have never thought about otherwise. Leon Trotsky is very unbiased and modest in the book and develops multiple perspectives. Some parts of the book got a bit boring, however.
Con independencia de las valoraciones y apreciaciones políticas del autor, el libro es un testimonio apasionante de quien fue actor principal de unos acontecimientos que han marcado la historia de la humanidad de los últimos 100 años. Aún sabiendo que el autor fue responsable de muchas muertes, el libro es de lectura obligada para quien le interese la historia contemporánea.
I just finished reading Volume 3 of Leon Trotsky's History of the Russian Revolution. The October (Bolshevik) Revolution was essentially bloodless! The people and army wanted and demanded that the Soviets take power. WOW 1917 was quite the year. Great Book and well worth the 937 pages to read all three volumes. Some quotes forthcoming comrades.
If you want to read this book in its entirety put an entire year of your life aside.
Best book I've ever read. Period!Still waiting for the revolution mind.
Indeed, Russia’s bourgeois, according to Trotsky, never actually took power.
One is struck by how marginal a role Trotsky ascribes to the Bolshevik Party, especially in the early sections of the book.
During the course of the February Revolution and its direct after-math, the Bolsheviks were being led by Trotsky’s arch enemy Stalin while Lenin was still in exile.
Trotsky insists that the revolutionary process he describes is not just a description of how the Bolsheviks took power in Russia but of how the working class in all countries can be victorious.
The Russian Revolution set the world on fire.
But, like so many lesser actors in the sixty-year historical drama of the international communist movement, Leon Trotsky fell victim to Stalinism.
All that remains of Trotsky’s political legacy is a pitifully small and irrelevant faction of communists called the Spartacist League.
It is a subjective memoir, a scholarly history, and a romantic rallying cry for a future vanguard of an international communist revolution.
He was expelled by Stalin from the Communist Party in 1927 and deported from Russia in 1929.
Tengo que reconocer que, para lo poco interesado que estoy en general en la política teórica, este libro ha despertado en mí un cierto interés.También comprendo mucho mejor ahora el marxismo y sus intenciones de lo que era antes capaz de imaginar.
Pero aunque solo sea por poder asomarse a los pensamientos de alguien que lo cree, merece la pena leer este libro.Finalmente, hay que reconocer que la obra es monumental.
La redacción del libro es brillante (me ha sorprendido la faceta literaria de una persona de la que solo conocía su vertiente política) y en algunos momentos parece un gran discurso rugido a las masas en un momento decisivo de la historia.
В начале Лев Троцкий излагает предпосылки революции, далее следует хронология событий с февраля по октябрь 1917 года, хотя книга не ограничивается лишь этим годом.
Хронология событий - не сухое перечисление событий и дат, а очень живописное повествование, в котором можно чуть ли не выделить героев, одним из которых будет, безусловно, ядовитый юмор Троцкого.
Помимо того, История русской революции занимает безусловную привилегированную позицию одной из немногих книг о 1917 годе, которую написал свидетель (творец?) событий.
Троцкий не только опровергает ошибочные обвинения Сталина в том, что первый в своей теории перманентной революции якобы отходил от общей большевистской повестки, но и доказывает, что Сталин сам постоянно менял позиции.

It's incredible to read the history of arguably the most important revolution in history, written by one of the principal actors.
Obviously there are shorter histories out there, but Trotsky makes the events relatable to past revolutions, and scarily enough our present situation.
If you have any interest in the Russian Revolution, this is about as thorough a history as you could want of the most tumultuous moments.
Its obviously skewed a little to make the Bolsheviks seem like saviors, but Trotsky sticks mostly to the facts.
A great read once you get past the heavy socialist dialectic.
Trotsky is at parts dense, acerbic, witty, and penetrating.
This is one of the best histories of a single year I’ve yet read.
His understanding of the causes of the proletarian and peasant uprising can come across as a little deterministic, and some of his assertions have been proven wrong by the march of history, but at the end of the day I doubt very many contemporaries understood Old Russia with all its foibles and New Russia with all its contradictions and passions as brilliantly as Trotsky.
This is a rare glimpse into the mind of one of history's greatest political thinkers as they navigated the decisive moments of revolution.
Trotsky shows off the scope of his analysis, and sharpness of his politics, all while maliciously mocking his rivals.
Before I read it I used to roll my eyes when people said it was the definitive work on the Russian revolution but now I am a convert.
A must read for anyone interested in politics, even if you aren't a revolutionary, but especially if you are.
What a fascinating read from one of the revolution's leaders.
You have to take Trotsky's writings with some amount of skepticism in how he portrays Stalin especially in a bad light, given when this was written and Trotsky's agenda to regain political power after having been forced out of the Bolshevik party.
But the writing on the history of Russia and the internal tides within the workers and political parties during the 8 months of revolution are absolutely breathtaking.
It's a tough read, not easily digestible.
It took me a good 6 months to get through it, but I would recommend it!
Traducida con una narrativa simple de entender, el TOMO I que narra los eventos previos a la revolución de febrero, la cual fallida, fue clave para que se pueda desarrollar la revolución de octubre. Impecable análisis social sobre la sociedad Rusa, los hechos previos que llevaron a cabo una de las revoluciones más sangrientas de la historia, y el porque llegar a éste punto cúlmine. Una obra maestra, recomendada para todo tipo de ideología política.
Gotta admit- skimmed this on a bit- it's just so vast and comprehensive I couldn't absorb. Instead, the book confirmed what I was looking for. Historical insight. Worth glancing at when you have some time.
Indispensable masterpiece, you cannot miss reading this.
A masterpiece! Lenin was an unmatched leader of men but Trotsky (the inventor of modern warfare) was an unmatched military genius and literary writer.
