https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/169879.Calling_on_Dragons

My dislike, or perhaps I should say my lack of liking, for this book is primarily due to the character Killer, an enchanted bunny that Morwen finds in her garden.
(The real reason is because the author thinks she needs to deliver exposition, and a character who doesn't know anything is a handy way to do that.) Maybe if Killer were funny (which he's supposed to be), I could forgive this hamfisted approach, but he's just so annoying.
►MY FEELINGS This book was very interesting from the beginning. I was very gripped by this book. For once I thought this book will be the best book in this series. BUT I think this book was very predictable for me after reading its previous books. Nevertheless, This was a very enjoyable and interesting read for me. I am satisfied that this book didn't hurt me like its second book did. Be Alert! Don't open any spoiler if you are looking farword to read this book or you don't want any revealations
(hide spoiler)]►MAJOR CHARACTERSMowenBio:--She is the witch and always appeared in the previous books.My feelings:--This book focuses on her.
I liked her way of story telling.Cimorene Bio:--She is the Queen of Enchanted Forest and the wife of Mendanber, the King of Enchanted ForestMy feelings:--As always, she is very well written.
I liked him in this book more then in second book.KILLER (new)Bio:--He is literally a rabbit BUT he is always the target of some weird magics Like:(view spoiler)[ First he turned into a 6 foot rabbit by some Wizards' magic after he turned into a donkey by eating something in Morwen's garden and many many more like that....
Now, I wasn't able to read this nearly as quickly as I was the previous two, so I'm sure I lost a bit of the flow because I had to stop and start so much.
So, it felt a little disconnected to me.I did love the cats being such pivotal characters, and was glad to see this tale told from Morwen's perspective, but I was sad Mendenbar wasn't in it more.
I'd think a lot of fans of Cimorene and Mendenbar might be a bit unhappy, but I'd have to wait to say for sure until I read the next installment.
With the help of the nerdtastic mage Telemain, one of the architects of the spell that is supposed to stop wizards from causing trouble, Morwen reports to King Mendanbar and Queen Cimorene of the Enchanted Forest, where they discover two very important things: one, Queen Cimorene is pregnant, and two, Mendanbar’s magical sword is missing.
(Mendanbar is predictably unhappy about this.) So Morwen, Telemain, Cimorene, Killer (who is now a floating blue donkey), Kazul the King of the Dragons, and two of Morwen’s cats go a-questing to get the sword back from the Society of Wizards instead.
Not bad, but nowhere near as good as the first two.In Calling on Dragons, the ever annoying Society of Wizards decides to become a serious threat to Mendanbar, Cimorene and the entire Enchanted Forest.
So when the sword gets stolen, Cimorene, the witch Morwen, the magician Telemain, the dragon king Kazul and an assorted number of beasts including some cats and a rabbit (whose penchant for eating magical things gets him in a lot of trouble) set off to get it back before the wizards can do real damage to the forest.
'Calling on dragons' no me ha gustado ni de lejos tanto como las dos primeras partes de la saga (mucha culpa la tiene el estúpido personaje de Killer ¬¬) pero aún así sigue siendo un libro infantil entrañable y divertido, además deja con ganas del cuarto y último volumen que parece que va a ser bastante diferente a los anteriores :)
A story of many magnificent cats, and one of the most annoying rabbits in all of invention.
However, this book failed because of the following:- The plot basically had the same bad guys, the wizards, which worked the first time, but is seriously tiring now, the cart is broken, the horse has run off, so please take a fuckin' rest with this.
- The fact that the epilogue was tiny but apparently squished two months worth of story time in it, and I have to read the last book now because at the end the castle is besieged by wizards so the next book must show how they won or something obvious like that.
3 StarsTamika, This series is SO incredibly cute! I have to admit that books 1 and 2 are my favorites but I think the entire series is worth the read. It is a Young Adult fantasy series that (mostly) stars a woman and has a little bit of gendered role reversal. Cute!Caveat: Books 3 and 4 are pretty annoying and book 3 (this one) has THE WORSE ENDING. Seriously. If you decide not to read them, give me a call and I'll give you the run-down. Have water handy, lol.http://bookslifewine.com/r-calling-on...
9 October, 2007cliffhanger ending, wow5 September, 2015I am perhaps most inclined to love this volume because Morwen, a witch with lots of cats she can talk to and books. But that stupid rabbit is annoying as hell and just won't ever stop whining. It's like being trapped in a car with the worst toddler imaginable for eternity.
I adore every book in this series! Imaginative setting, quirky characters, and an adventurous plot full of magic and dragons, secrets and intrigue. It’s just as wonderful re-reading each book as it was the first time.
⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ For Trouble and Scorn and their other 7 feline companions who looked nothing like proper witch's cats, and for Killer the ever hungry rabbit turned to a bright blue six-foot donkey with wings. They are amazing!!!
So far this has been the least fun book in this series, for three reasons.
First, spending half of every page on the "nobody can understand what Telemain says haha" gag is way too much.
This gets old really fast.
We have to wait until book four to find out how it gets solved.
I did enjoy Morwen's cats in this book, and their very cat-like individual personalities.
Based on the sneak peek, the next book does promise to be better, so I'm inclined to think of this as just some normal middle-series awkwardness.
Hopefully what happens next will bounce the series back to its usual level of fun.
Annoying characters (Killer and Telemain voices grates on my nerves!) and a very bad cliffhanger :(
Morwen's POV was fun and we get to see lots of her cats, who were definitely some of the best secondary characters.
Killer the giant blue donkey/rabbit and the fire witch (can't remember his name right now) were both great supporting cast as well and there is a lot more action.
One thing I'm not a big fan of in the sequels so far is the references to well-known fairytales.
I don't recall there being any references to other stories in the first book, and in my opinion they detract from the originality of the books.
I didn't enjoy the story being told from Morwen's point of view as much I had expected, and part of that is because most of her life is listening to the whining of cats, dragons, donkeys, and rabbits.
Also, from a formulaic perspective, the story shouldn't have been told from Morwen's point of view.
Each of the other three books is told from the point of view of a character *new* to the series.
Since we have already gotten to know her in the previous two books, we lose the exploration of a character like we get in the other stories.
I especially loved this one because the point of view switched to Morwen, whom I adore.
And she's just so no-nonsense and I love her ^_^ (unimportant but still: I really like the front cover but it's a shame Morwen has a witch's hat on as she never wore them :/) Those cats were probably my favourite aspect of the book.
I do kind of wish she'd touched on their descriptions now and again throughout the book though, because they are all described in the beginning, but it IS hard to keep track of the physical appearances of nine different cats :P
Although I am so reluctant to recommend books in which a Dragon is turned into a protagonist, (curious why?
Excellent non-fiction on the topic of myth and popular culture today is "A Landscape With Dragons"--highly recommend it to parents who have children heavily invested in fantasy literature.
You don't have to agree with all his points to realize that he is raising an issue than many parents might not even know is there.
http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10...) I cannot help but love these books!
And I love the hardcover art by Trina Schart Hyman (if you can find it!).
Book 1 is the best, but the series is entertaining, though written for a young audience.
This one felt like a middle book. It was a charming installment, but it was definitely the setup for a concluding volume. The cats were delightful, but some of the gags like Killer's enchantments and Telemain's academic mumbo-jumbo felt a little overused.
Another fun entry in the Enchanted Forest Chronicles, although I must confess the plot (evil wizards trying to steal magic) is becoming a wee bit repetitive.
But I enjoyed the humor: overly technical magicians, cranky talking mirrors, and constantly transforming rabbit donkeys.
(Even the dragons eating the wizards in the final battle - offscreen, of course - is played for laughs.) They all seem to share a fatalistic, "c'est la vie" attitude that on one hand is appropriate to the setting (classic fairy-tale Enchanted Forest where everyone is playing a role familiar to both us and them), but on the other keeps the story very surface level and insubstantial.
However, I feel like I barely got to learn anything new about Morwen at all (although I did quite enjoy her cats in this book) because I was constantly having to read about how annoying Killer the rabbit was, how not one of the characters was really sure what was going on for more than half of the book, and just reading the characters having arguments over things for no (seemingly) particular reason.
Things definitely do pick up at the end, and I still enjoyed reading Calling on Dragons, but it was the weaker of the three so far.
I. LOVE. THESE. BOOKS. Highly recommend for anyone looking for a quick, easy, and fun fantasy story that'll stay with you. I've read this series more times than I can count and I enjoy it every time and rediscover things about the characters. I recommend this for kids, and everyone older, because it had such a great influence on me and has such great messages. Love!Also: this book is from Morwen's P.O.V. and it made me realize just how much I love her.
The wizards are trying to cause trouble again by taking King Mendenbar's enchanted sword and try to take over the castle. Cimorene and the others have to stop them!I would give this 3.5 stars. I felt like each book was kind of the same, and after reading them all in a row, I started getting a bit bored. I'm going to wait a bit before reading the last in this series.
This series continues to be 'cute' without having much to offer me beyond that. I would love to read this to kids: I think it would be fun. But I wouldn't read it for myself. Right now I'm reading it because one of my friends told me to!
this is my second least favorite book in the series. it's a toss up -- morwen's pov means we get to listen to the cats talk, which is obviously awesome, but killer is so annoying. i'm not gonna read the fourth one, because it is my least favorite.
Darn, this could've been a whole lot better! I still did enjoy it, besides I just gotta continue the series after that ending!3 Stars
2-3 stars.
2½-3 stars.
I liked the cats. Killer was a mood killer tho.
A solid book 3. I really enjoy reading about the further adventures of Wrede's Enchanted Forest characters. This book had the reader getting to know Morwen's cats a lot better...and I enjoyed their true to life catlike personalities! I hope in book 4 they find a more permanent solution to wizards than repeated melting....I'd love to see their powers taken forever!
