https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42143.The_Land_of_Laughs
”The Land of Laughs was lit by eyes that saw the lights that no one’s seen.” Jonathan CarrollThomas Abbey is a prep school English teacher who is weighed down with loneliness, boredom, and a lackluster attitude about the direction of his own life. He has three passions: one, he likes to collect unusual masks from around the world; two, he loves the books of Marshall France; three, he hates (loves) his famous father. He has been defined his whole life as the son of….Things begin to change for him
He has three passions: one, he likes to collect unusual masks from around the world; two, he loves the books of Marshall France; three, he hates (loves) his famous father.
Saxony is good at research, and Thomas is a pretty decent writer; maybe between the two of them they can bring Marshall France back to life.Back to life?
Thomas takes a semester off, and he and Saxony decide to make the pilgrimage to Galen, Missouri, which is where France had lived until his sudden death at the age of 44.
There is one hurdle that must be leaped for Thomas to have a chance at writing this book about his favorite writer.
This cult classic--a bigger hit in Poland than in the author's native USA--is a strange novel, and a very interesting one.
At the beginning, it seems to be a piece of realistic fiction, narrating the efforts of a high school English instructor in his 30's and his researcher girlfriend to write the biography of a deceased children's book author they idolize.
But when they get to the author's hometown, things get weirder and weirder--and the book itself gets stranger and stranger.
Unlike many books that develop this way, however, the ending does not disappoint.
This is a good novel, well worth your time.
jonathan carroll's books are like gourmet jellybeans.
jonathan carroll is like that for me.
they are philosophical/moral/spiritual journey stories but in a playful, not didactic way.
take those thoughts to go, please.land of laughs is a really good introduction to jonathan carroll.
his endings are pretty consistently weak, but it almost becomes an adorable quirk, like when kids can't say "spaghetti" or something that people think it is cute when kids do.
at the end of the day, he is just a good storyteller, and like the opening credits for "amazing stories", isn't that the foundation our "littry appreciation" should be built upon?
real review of book here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...review of this spectacular edition:ohhhhhh A CHRISTMAS MIRACLE!! after missing out on buying this very limited print run edition of The Land of Laughs because i couldn't justify, at this financial point in my life, spending $85 on a book i've read many times and already own many many different editions of in different languages or with different covers, i had the mopes, but then LO! connor got me a copy for early christmas! and it
real review of book here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...review of this spectacular edition:ohhhhhh A CHRISTMAS MIRACLE!!
after missing out on buying this very limited print run edition of The Land of Laughs because i couldn't justify, at this financial point in my life, spending $85 on a book i've read many times and already own many many different editions of in different languages or with different covers, i had the mopes, but then LO!
and maybe, just maybe, it cures cat cancer.we will wait and see how big of a christmas miracle this book is.but i have high hopes.THANK YOU SO MUCH, CONNOR!!!
Grind some beans in the Moulinex, make a fresh pot of coffee, then settle in the big chair by the window with the good reading light … (с)Q:“I know it’s none of my business, but why on earth would you pay a hundred dollars for that book?”How do you explain an obsession?
(c)Q:Reading a book, for me at least, is like traveling in someone else's world.
But if it's a lousy book, then it's like going through Secaucus, New Jersey -- it smells and you wish you weren't there, but since you've started the trip, you roll up the windows and breathe through your mouth until you're done.
I had no clue what to expect of this novel, and cannot even remember where I encountered it already many months ago. FROM THE BLURB Have you ever loved a magical book above all others? Have you ever wished the magic were real? Welcome to The Land of Laughs. A novel about how terrifying that would be.Schoolteacher Thomas Abbey, unsure son of a film star, doesn't know who he is or what he wants--in life, in love, or in his relationship with the strange and intense Saxony Gardner. What he knows is
The book was first released in 1982, but became so popular that it was released again in 2010.With that said, the story fitted perfectly into the surrealistic world of magic meeting reality in Galen, Missouri.The story is written in the cultural language of the early Eighties, with all the elements of the times present, such as women as sidekicks for mostly salacious purposes, and the music of the times forming the background noise of the plot ( I actually enjoyed that).
I don't want to say much about the plot, since it will spoil the surprise for someone who might want to read this book.
This book was my introduction to the incredible writing of Jonathan Carroll. He writes these modern fantasies that are sometimes dark and usually humorous. I can't think of another author that I know of that writes like Carroll. The problem is, he usually runs hot or cold for me; I either love the book or I can't even finish it. Again, this is an enigma that I share with no other author. At any rate, THE LAND OF LAUGHS definitely hit a home run for me. Wonderful, funny characters and imaginative situations. Highly recommended.
Of course now the age of digital publishing has largely eliminated such problems, as the Kindle immortalized hundreds of thousands of volumes which would otherwise share the same fate - which is both a blessing and a curse: the blessing being an eternal digital life of novels, with readers not fearing that their favorites will go out of print and that they will be unable to read them, as there is no print to speak of - but also a curse, resulting decreasing sales of paper books made of trees in favor of their Kindle counterparts made of ones and zeroes.
This is copy 40 of 300 copies signed by:Jonathan CarrollRyder CarrollMichelle LopesDavid Mattingly
And yet, some of the lines from this fictional author are beautiful and therefore completely believable in all respects.Similar to Kurt Vonnegut's Breakfast of Champions, The Land of Laughs is a book of many other books.
Carroll even gives us lines from the books which are splendid and as I said above, purvey the beauty of France's writing.The eponymous book is actually France's most famous book:"The eyes that light The Land of Laughs was lit by eyes that saw the light's that no one's seen."There were a few lines like this that just made me smile and enchanted me to no end.
France was a secretive man who lived much of his life in the small town of Galen, Missouri, and when Thomas runs into another obsessed female fan of Marshall France named Saxony Gardner, they strike up a relationship and decide to take an extended road-trip to Galen to research a biography of their beloved author.When they arrive in small-town Galen, they are unsure how the townspeople will react, and even less so the famous author’s daughter Anna, a mysterious woman who they have been warned will be hostile but turns out to be extremely welcoming and offers to help with their research.
I've read this book twice. Both times I was satisfied and amazed. And I am going to do it again.
Here's what I think: it has a lot of "Boy, howdy!" dialogue.
Sometimes the narration reads like an eager family newsletter and is infested with as many tired phrases.
Did this book have an editor?) should have suggested that Carroll look up "elegant variation" in Fowler's.
I often had to check the spine of the book to make sure I wasn't reading something that had been published by a vanity press.
The main character talks often about rewriting but I don't get the impression that Carroll thinks much about it.
I don't know how I read this book to its awful, awful end.
10/10Hayran olduğunuz bir kitap, bir yazar varsa, Kahkahalar Ülkesi'ni okuyun mutlaka.Bu hayranlığı çok güzel tanımlayan bir hikaye anlatıyor çünkü.
Çünkü bu kitap, yazma sanatına harika bir saygı duruşu.Aşkın gerçekçi bir sunumunu görmek istiyorsanız mutlaka edinin bu kitabı: Tutku mu, huzur mu?Çok garip, olağandışı bir kasabada aylar geçirmek isterseniz hiç kaçırmayın bu kitabı.Gülmek istiyorsanız, şaşırmak istiyorsanız kesinlikle geçin bu kitabın başına.Sönmez Güven'in harika çevirisi, Jonathan Carroll'ın müthiş kalemi okunmayı bekliyor.Bal çalalım dimağınıza:İngilizce öğretmeni Thomas Abbey, en sevdiği yazar Marshall France'in biyografisini yazmayı aklına koyar.
I'll end up with a slew of Carroll novels--this one came out in America in 1980, so is one of the early ones.
In a bookstore universe of bland and homogenised writers and fictions, the world that words from Carroll's fountain pen is as cool, as fine and as magical as a new lover, or cool water in the desert.
I'd start with LAND OF LAUGHS--and see if you're ready for his dark magic.
Which was presented dismissively (despite a few vacuous comments that he felt pretty bad about it, but kept doing it) and was ultimately inconsequential.It’s a shame, as in all I could sense the building blocks of the greatness others see in Carroll here – it’s testament to his writing ability that I managed to finish the book despite any particular interest in the plot or characters.
A dear friend who knows me well pressed this book on me and said, "Read it, you'll love it." She told me nothing about the Land of Laughs, and I'm glad.
In the ensuing review, I will endeavor not to spoil any of the surprises of Land of Laughs.
The two Dead Dads - Marshall France and Thomas Abbey's father, Stephen - haunt the book and, it turns out, drive the narrative, though you only gradually come to realize it.Another aspect that kept me glued is Carroll's ability to fuse dream reality with "real" reality.
The Land of Laughs is a tricky book.I thought it was pretty close to perfect, until the last ten pages or so; I walked away from the ending dissatisfied -- distressed, even -- and am still trying to work out whether it was a failure on the level of expectation or of writing.
Two very odd people, Thomas (narrator) and Saxony (love interest; firey, tactless, vulnerable, stubborn, and adorable!) are drawn together by a mutual obsession with Marshall France, author of the whimsical children's books they fell in love with and never quite let go of.
I liked the whole 80's gadgetless atmosphere, when people actually had to go to libraries to do research and shuffle through all yellow pages of newspapers, when they couldn't just call each other from the middle of nowhere crying for help, and had to stay at home for a week to take a long-awaited phone call.
Hey, when they actually visited and talked to people.
In a nutshell, this book is really cosy and it would be a blessing to the adults who, like Thomas, spent their childhood wrapped in an old blanket, hugging a book and hiding a flashlight from preoccupied mothers.
The story was five star, the narrative was five star, but sometimes (not all of the time) the dialogue did not flow naturally, like real conversation.
Land of Laughs was written in 1980 and published in 1982, which was really fun because reading the story reminded me what it was like to live before the technology explosion of the 1990's.
It was like a time-travel back to those yesteryears that I sometimes miss.
Instead, I like to say things about the book that made me particularly happy or annoy me in some way.
I do, however, stand by my stars, and suggest you read this novel.

Five stars there.
Five stars there.
Maybe it's because I'm impressed by almost anyone that can write this well (including so many of you GRers!).
It could also be that I'm on a recent streak of really awesome books.
Or maybe I don't feel the star-rating system means much one way or the other except to reinforce some deep-seated reward expectation at receiveing gold stars for a job well done.Either way, this is my favorite Jonathan Carroll so far, by far.
Subtle, sleight-of-hand tricks are at work from the very beginning in this unassuming gem of a book which builds into a very rewarding (gold star!) ending.
The Land of Laughs is the subtle sort of slipstream novel where something just itches at your brain; you know things aren't on the level but it's impossible to place precisely what until quite a ways in. Carroll imbues his characters with quirks and humanity. The ending was not one that I would have ever guessed. A very pleasant surprise of a book that shouldn't have sat in my cupboard for as long as it did.
This is the fourth Carroll novel I have reviewed in the same time frame and the first sentence in the aforementioned passage sums up how I feel each time I have read one of his novels.The Land of Laughs tells of Thomas Abbey, a teacher and son of a famous film star, who gets the chance to write the biography of his favorite children’s book author, Marshall France.
Can a writer (or any creative person) become a God to the world they have created in their stories?Those questions kept coming to mind as I read The Land of Laughs.

C'è il livello della storia surreale (con il mistero, tutto da svelare, della strana cittadina Galen), e c'è il livello della storia tutta introspettiva del protagonista, che poco a poco impara a conoscere se stesso, le sue potenzialità, e a riscoprire la grande figura del padre defunto.Unica pecca, forse, una caratterizzazione dei personaggi non proprio eccezionale.
Certo: c'è la narrazione in prima persona del protagonista (e qui la caratterizzazione è totale), ma i comprimari sono un po' trascurati.Rimane comunque un libro fondamentale per tutti i fan di Carroll, e assolutamente godibile.
When you're an English lit teacher, with a little creative writing background, can afford to take a semester off (your late father was a very popular actor,who left you a comfortable inheritence), to go talk to the daughter of your favorite childhood author (who is a God in your eyes) to see if you can write his biography.
Then you start to realize, this isn't like where Opie lived after all.This is one of the books I have had, that I consider "a read outside my norm" - "expand my author reads".
This was my first Carroll novel, and what a wild, unexpected fantasy trip it was...all in a one day read.
Recommended, if your kinda like me, and want to read something, "outside the box."
I loved Jonathan Carroll's The Land of the Laughs.
I have this book in Hardcover, First Edition.
Inscribed and signed by Jonathan Carroll "To ___These Laughs are just for you." That being said, this is the only Jonathan Carroll book that I liked.
I don't like fantasy or science fiction.
The Land of Laughs came out in 1980.
This was a chilling, albeit fantasy genre that I could not put down and read in one sitting.
This book was reread by me and knowing the ending did dampen things the second time.
It remains to be an all time favorite read.
Напевно, одна із найцікавіших книг, що я прочитав цього року; тій же Правді про справу Гаррі Квеберта не поступається.Читав е-бук з 600 е-сторінок, і до сторінки так 400-ї не було жодної ясності чи прозоро фентезійної містичності.
Белетристика тут у недоеротиці, у слабкості жіночіх персонажів, у ось-це-так-поворот!-ності.Та навіть із цім книга є хорошою, гарним прикладом якісної контркультури.
Будь моя воля, і підлітки-недопанки читали б Керрола замість Паланіка чи (мазохісти!) Берроуза (і це тут не про чуваків із джунглів у дранті навколо геніталій).Хочеться чогось неформатного, проте емоційно та стильово якісного?
Си.: і з його цікавою мовою мені капець як хочеться побачити, чи можна його адаптувати українською
Because it is immediately apparent as soon as they meet Anna, who turns out to be attractive and seemingly a lot nicer than she had been portrayed by the publisher, that Thomas and Anna are going to have an affair.I won't reiterate the plot, but around page 130 as I said above, enough hints had been dropped by the people of Galen to make it clear that (view spoiler)[ they had been used to knowing the major events of their lives, but now things were deviating from the script, which meant that someone, undoubtedly France, had written an ongoing history of the inhabitants.
