https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37380.The_Heart_Is_a_Lonely_Hunter
If I said that the young woman in this who throughout the novel moves from being a child to becoming an adult (even without some of the possible horrible things that could have happened to her not actually eventuating) and yet she still basically loses everything by growing up – that would be mostly true too.And if I said that the book is about selfishness and how a moment’s decision or thoughtlessness can have horrible and irrevocable consequences – well, you might think you’ve read this book many times before – but again, I think you would be wrong.Or I could say that this is a book about how we fundamentally misunderstand others – for doesn’t everyone misunderstand (project onto) John Singer, the deaf-mute who is more or less central to the story, whatever it is they need him to be?
How does a young girl write such darkness, such tragedy?
Like many teenage girls, she feels isolated and misunderstood, but finds solace in two things: the company of a deaf mute boarder in her family home and her true passion, music.
In the hot sun and in the dark with all her plans and feelings.This music was her - the real plain her.I can't emphasize enough how much that passage resonated with me.
He feels isolated because he's a black man in a predominately white town.
The only white person he feels he can trust is Mr. Singer.
In fact - and here's Miss McCullers' audacious vicious twist - John Singer is himself completely obsessed with another deaf mute who he thinks of as almost Godlike but who in fact is a fat greedy imbecile confined to a mental asylum.
Not much.BRIEF ACTS OF APPALLING VIOLENCE Miss McCullers doesn't belabour this central conceit too much and she also throws in a ton of local knowledge but without smacking you upside the head every time like Annie Proulx does.
But the tone quickly grew darker, and when African American life was introduced and put into contrast with the poor white characters, deeply rooted issues of racism, prejudice, exploitation and segregation took over.I thought I would claim one of the most heartbreaking scenes to be the naive prayer of an old coloured person, whose hope in Jesus reflects the evil of racist society and its dominating gods perfectly:“I say to Him, “Jesus Christ, us is all sad coloured peoples.” And then he will place His holy hand upon our heads and straightway us will be white as cotton.”My heart broke for that desperate old person, whose religion is tainted by the hopeless situation of white supremacy, both in the spiritual and physical world.
That people got so wrapped up in determining just how they were going to respond to someone or a given situation that they actually stopped hearing what was being said to them.
Despite the fact that he was deaf and mute they all believed that he understood them and for Mick he even provided a way for her to listen to her beloved music.
I highly recommend Carson McCullers: Complete Novels: The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter / Reflections in a Golden Eye / The Ballad of the Sad Cafe / The Member of the Wedding / Clock Without Hands
The setting is a small mill town in Georgia.McCuller's initially entitled the novel, "The Mute," as the central character is John Singer, a deaf mute, who can truly only communicate with his room mate, a Greek named Spiros Anastopolous.
The Lonely Hunter: A Biography of Carson McCullers
A Review of The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter by Richard Wright http://www.carson-mccullers.com/html/...5.
She speaks out about racism, fascism, the rights of the disabled, as well as the depression, through the alternating chapters told through the eyes of her archetypal protagonists Singer, Biff Brannon, Jake Blount, Doctor Benedict Copeland, and Mick Kelly.
The world needs more people like Doctor Copeland, Biff Brannon, Jake Blount, Singer, and Mick Kelly.
Carson McCullers work should be viewed as North American classic writing, and I look forward to reading more of it in the coming year.5 timeless stars
Rating: 4.99* of fiveA near-perfect book, a joy of a read, and a heartfelt "thank you" to the goddesses of literature for it. My review has moved out of the purview of censors and moneygrubbers to my blog.
Singer's love does not require reciprocation but it does require an object, we may never be in our lives come to see our beloved, but we want him around us, the surety of sharing the same sky can appease much, the certainty of breathing in same air is of comfort immensely, because love needs not reward, or love in return, it’s not an act that expects to be re-acted, it’s the whole life as we keep living, we keep loving ,and when Antonopoulos dies, his own reason for living dies too.........As for other characters, each of the five main characters strives to break out of his or her isolated existence.
This initial theme that remains at the center, almost hidden, is present at the climax of the novel - in fact, the climax of the center sets in motion the climax of the entire novel and causes all of the separate peripheral melodies that had been brought in, one by one, like in a Bach or Händel fugue, to each reach climax and spiral away from the center, where the fugue ends as an adagio sung in one of the most subtle of the voices in the fugue-novel....but the book is much more than a metaphorical fugue or a Freudian analogy; it is also a Marxist critique of not only the race relations in the American South but also a bitter slap in the face of the Capitalist North:"'We live in the richest country in the world.
Ve cómo los hombres tienen que robar a sus hermanos para poder vivir.
Ve cómo los niños se mueren de hambre y las mujeres trabajan sesenta horas por semana para ganarse la comida.
Pero lo más importante que ve es que todo el sistema del mundo está construido sobre una mentira.
Y aunque todo esto es tan evidente como el mismo sol…, los ignorantes han vivido tanto tiempo con esa mentira que ya no son capaces de verla.
Todos ellos tipos imperecederos, sublimes por su trazado sutil, por la ternura de los ojos que les otorgan vida.Amor, silencio, soledad.
Hell, the title alone is marvelous!!! Great reader. A wonder of a book from an essentially child genius lesbian author that delves into so many issues as integral to when it was written as to now. Among them; how one person's struggle influences everyone around them for generations and how life can be beautiful in its struggle. This is one of a handful of books (ie books of Truman Capote & David Sedaris) that make me wish I phrased things as beautifully as southerners can!
And this is exactly that kind of narrative which refuses to let go even after you have managed to extricate yourself from its emotional chokehold.
At the time of its publication, the deep south was carving out an existence around a kind of fragile status quo almost in the same manner as South Africa under Apartheid was.
McCullers's depiction of race relations is imbued with a kind of subliminal prophetic certainty that the already tottering edifice of discrimination and injustice cannot possibly stand for long.
Today, I'm glad that I didn't attempt a review of this one because I just came across a piece in the sixth book, The Mortgaged Heart: Selected Writings, entitled Author's Outline of 'The Mute' (later published as 'The Heart is a Lonely Hunter').
Each one of these persons makes the mute the repository for his most personal feelings and ideas...This situation between the four people and the mute has an exact parallel in the relation between Singer and his deaf-mute friend, Antonopoulos.
(Sorry, my humor never matured much beyond the days of Reds’ glory.)I have to confess that it was almost a distraction to read this knowing how young McCullers was to have written something so insightful, polished and world-weary.
Even if I’m wrong about those hopes, this is an important and authentically observed book, well worth the time.*In 1998, the Modern Library ranked The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter seventeenth on its list of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century.
“Go, my songs, to the lonely and the unsatisfied,Go also to the nerve-racked, go to the enslaved-by-convention,Bear to them my contempt for their oppressors.Go as a great wave of cool water,Bear my contempt of oppressors.” “Go”, commands Ezra Pound in his poem  “Comission” . And so I obey, and I go. I go and listen to the mute choir of the lonesome and the restless, of the disinherited and the excluded, of the alienated and the embittered. Isolated voices withering in despair, wrestling in inco
“Mick Kelly and Jake Blount and Doctor Coperland would come and talk in the silent room – for they felt that the mute would always understand whatever they wanted to say to him.
A cross between an exquisite dream and a harrowing nightmare, The Heart is a Lonely Hunter starts off like a simple tale celebrating the humdrum of everyday life, but as the pages of this novel treads the path of a new home, a different alley, a faraway Southern town and lives of four different characters, it excavates the treasure chest of voices buried in the reclusive hearts of those who were born and silenced during an inopportune time.
The mutual distrust between the men who were just awakened and those who were ending a long night gave everyone a feeling of estrangement.This rampant distrust and loneliness makes other enter through a different but familiar door.
I have read 8 of Carson McCullers books, and like the rest of the world I agree that this is her best work. It sets a tone that I found prevailing in almost all of her books, a sad and melancholy outlook on life, and being a young and impressionable eccentric in 1940's small town Georgia, I can understand that. This is her masterpiece. It was made into a 1968 movie starring Alan Arkin and it is firmly placed in the list of best American novels.4.5 starsSide note: Sunday, Feb. 19, 2017, will mark the 100th Birthday of Carson McCullers.
(Actually, I guess the point is not so much that the promise is false, but that it gets shut away.)The book is almost unrelentingly bleak.
And, since a happy resolution is not in the cards, most novels would push the characters over the edge in some sort of cataclysm.
This resolution is even sadder, but for me it makes for a less compelling novel.I've read reviews of people complaining that nothing happens in this book.
And the wants of the characters don't lead to any of the incidents.
Gradually, other people in the town come to regard Singer as a confidante, and we get involved in the lives of four people: tomboy Mick Kelly, who loves music and hopes to someday escape the town; diner owner Biff, who is in an unhappy marriage; Dr. Copeland, a black man who wishes he could inspire more people to improve themselves; and Jake, a political protester who struggles with alcoholism.My favorite character was Mick, an adolescent girl who seemed like a stand-in for Carson.
I expect he done read more books than any white man in this town.
He is a creature of self-efficient worlds, bound on the edge of drunken madness on one and a host of academic truths on the other, a jester screaming out the obscene reality to their blind and mulish audience.Sing for him, one who lives on a crust of a dream and pays the daily horror of a price for dreaming.Sing for the girl with the sulky dress and responsive love, the family blood and the soul-lined melody, the notes, the notes, always the notes.
Biff Brannon (café owner), Jake Kelly (migrant mechanic and social activist), Dr Copeland (black doctor and communist) and Mick Kelly (girl of 13-14) all attach themselves to Singer, who is of course, the perfect listener for their varied troubles and a blank canvas for them to create him as a god-like figure of whatever kind they each want.
In that relationship, Singer did all the talking and assumed that wisdom and empathy came from Antonapoulos, who largely listened.
John Singer, the deaf/mute.
And Mick Kelly, a 14 year old girl who hears beautiful music in her head and heart.
These are our main players, each of them lonely and looking for someone to talk to, someone who will listen and maybe understand.
They all talk incessantly to Mr. Singer, who can't hear them, and rarely understands.
Mr. Singer can only talk with his hands, and then only to those who can understand sign language.
So his only outlet is with another deaf/mute, his friend Spiros, who has been placed in an institution by his family.Carson McCullers took these five people and wrote a story about the human need for love and acceptance that we all recognize and empathize with.
I read this years ago -before being a member on Goodreads. (Just forgot to post any comments)--Thanks to 'Steve' for the inspiration of memory! "The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter" one those books that leaves a lasting tattoo on your heart forever! Not only does it take place during the Great Depression -during times of racial injustice --not only do we 'see-feel-touch-experience' loneliness through a character so profound deeper than most have ever been written----but it was 'THIS' novel where I learned the full beauty of 'feeling' music through sign language.A Classic Best!!! 5 +++++ stars!!!
All the pain, all the loneliness – Jake Blount, Doctor Copeland, Mick – and Singer – Carson has tied it all into a tiny little package, so small, almost a seed – and placed it into the reader, where it will now stay, maybe grow … but certainly stay.
And perhaps blossom in the reader as it did in the observer Biff, who looked into the abyss.
I move the book from the “currently reading” to the “read” shelf … and place a copy on one other shelf … “existentialism wide”.
When I see it there I’ll remember the seed.
Thank you Carson.
Biff in his New York Café, Mr Singer in his muteness, Mick in her Inside Room, and Dr Copeland in his sickness are all joined together by a longing, unrealized, to surpass their circumstances.
160)The languid descriptions of the Southern town where the story takes place tells the interior story of the characters: Mick trying to coax Bubber out of hiding, "The yard was lonesome and the wind made quick, scary shadows and a mourning kind of sound in the darkness." (P.
197) The "angry, restless love" actually plagues each of the tortured and beautifully drawn characters during the year that the book takes place.
Tellingly, not one of Singer's frequent visitors (Mick, Biff, Jake, Copeland), asks about his private life, about his problems, about his needs, his dreams, his plans for the future.
. A masterful scene between him and Jake Blount talking at cross purposes about social reform, illustrates the chasms still open and the lack of trust between black and white communities, even when they share the same economic troubles.- I left Mick Kelly last, because these three above are middle-aged, defeated, cynical but basically responsible for their own lives.
I think because we have lived so long in an artificial social system that we insisted was natural and right and just--when all along we knew it wasn't." Carson McCullers"I am a lone lorn creatur...and everythink goes contrairy with me." Mrs. Gummidge, David Copperfield.This veracious Southern Gothic novel, with its common gothic staples of disfigurement, disease, brutality and mortality present in a dull and mean small Southern town, makes for a compelling, albeit painful, study of isolation and loneliness in a Georgia milling town in the 1930s.
She believes that, though Singer is deaf, he can hear music in his head and she tells him of her wishes and dreams.
When a bunch of society’s outcasts become inexplicably drawn to and befriend a deaf mute. He becomes their sympathetic ear and confidante when each of them gain their own voice and this gives them all a glimmer of hope and a safe space for them to dream. The twist of irony makes this book tinged with so much sadness, the breakdown of society and the harmfulness of segregation, bigotry and the outcasting of the lost, lonely and displaced. 4 sad and lonely stars.
Whether or not this darkness is inherent to the South or McCullers is just tapping into her own personal ennui, reading The Heart is a Lonely Hunter often made me feel as though I were journeying upriver to listen to Kurtz exhort me to "exterminate all the brutes." The book follows four different people and the dreams for a different/better life that they all hold close as a means of escaping the pervasive loneliness which always seems ready to swallow them whole.
