https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18114332-the-carter-of-la-providence
Some have the smell of whisky, eau de Cologne, a woman and the sounds of gramophone records….”She didn’t look like the type of woman who would be found dead in a stable.
She looks like the type of woman who does her lovemaking on silk sheets with a glass of champagne close to hand.
I’ve read that, just as Arthur Conan Doyle tried to kill off Sherlock, Simenon also tried to dispose of his famous character, but found the hue and cry was too much to withstand and wisely resurrected Maigret.
Yes, yes, I know it never happens in real life - but I do not read mysteries to experience reality; I just want to escape for a few hours into my loved realm of imagination.Which is why the book rated only three stars from me: it is a highly subjective rating.The story is set on the Marne Canal, where a woman's body is discovered in a stable of a canalside inn in Dizy.
It is the wife of an English Lord, Colonel Lampson, travelling on the barge the Southern Cross in the company of his wife, his mistress, his friend Willy Marco and the seaman Vladimir.
It appears that Simenon began with trying to recapture his former life on the canals, then threw in a murder to spice things up and injected his detective Maigret into the story for company, and then, like the proverbial boat on uncharted waters, followed these threads to see how things would pan out, introducing the murderer, new characters, and new situations as he sailed along the plot’s choppy waters.
A great deal is spent on analysing the psychology of the murderer and on what led to the crime—Simenon hallmarks.Simenon wrote seventy-five novels and twenty-eight short stories on his character Maigret alone, not counting the many other books he wrote under two dozen pseudonyms.
Sir Walter Lampson, a retired English colonel who served in India, and his wife Mary have a very modern marriage, each openly with a lover.
While Simenon was vehemently apolitical, he painted a comic picture of two aristocrats — one French and one English — coming to an understanding despite “the recent unpleasantness.”Maigret novels aren’t for fans of non-stop suspense thrillers, nor for readers expecting intricate puzzles.
Fans of Miss Jane Marple or Chief Inspector Morse might want to explore Simenon novels for their next favorite series.
The librarian who checked me out remarked that The Carter of 'La Providence' was "an oldie but goodie." I totally agree.
(The French title, "Le Charretier de la 'Providence'" is arguably a better title as it refers to the barge workers central to the story; but it has also been issued in English as "The Crime at Lock 14", "Maigret Meets a Milord" and "The Triumph of Inspector Maigret", each title becoming less and less relevant.
As Maigret attempts to unravel the mystery, barges -- including perhaps a murderer -- are passing the scene daily as they progress through the lock system of the river.It's not a long read but it is compelling and every page digs us deeper into this rough and shabby world dangerously balanced on the edge of disaster that could strike at a moment's notice.
My first Inspector Maigret and second Simenon. I previously read "The Widow" which also happens to be set near a canal. I thought they were both great. It's a neat trick to clearly evoke places and characters so economically.
Un nuovo enigma da risolvere per l’ispettore Maigret. Di nuovo ambientato lungo i canali della Senna, fra una chiusa e l’altra. Ritroviamo le atmosfere liquide, piovose e umide dei canali, uomini di fatica dalle mani nodose e damerini in vestaglie di seta, bar e bettole fumose pronte a riscaldare dai freddi dell’inverno. Ma su tutte emerge l’umanità di un personaggio scolpito nel tempo, la sua sagacia per l’uomo e non contro l’uomo. Una lettura piacevole.
The canals are crowded, and the boat ahead is in your way in a fashion similar to bumper-to-bumper traffic on the freeway.Numerous locks along the canals allow boats to travel without sudden shifts in elevation of the water.
Anyway, because of the constant movement, with the exception of late nights and early mornings, the scene of the crime is moving and any boaters who may have been in the vicinity of the murder are moving as well.Thus, Maigret’s work is not easy.
Of course, there’s the canal path along which teams of draft horses walk and pull boats (think of the Erie Canal).
Good book! Short, easy, satisfying read. Excellent puzzle and solution.
Here, in three pages, he has established the scene on the rain-soaked Marne canal with Dickensian atmosphere, described the workings of the canal which will be crucial to the story, and introduced the finding of the body which will provide the puzzle for Maigret.
It is the oppressive, hard-working, hard-drinking life of the canal that Simenon evokes so powerfully.
The poverty and camaraderie of the community of bargees and their wives is very well described.One of the several English titles this book has gone under was Maigret Meets a Milord, and a leading figure here is a retired English colonel from the Indian Army, Sir Walter Lampson.
There’s a gentle rhythm to ‘The Carter of La Providence’.
But this murder mystery on the water ways and locks of France comes with its own peaceful rhythm, like water lapping on the edge of a dock at dawn.
A murder takes place in a world with a slower pace of life, and even though the crime is brutal, the world just keeps making its own quiet way.Initially it seems that the discovery of a dead body in a remote lock, where everybody present seems to have an alibi, is the introduction to a locked room mystery.
It's a rear occasion when murderer tends to be more likable than his victims. The problem with Maigret is that he doesn't show how his mind work.It's a black box for the reader. He also doesn't always share what he find out. It's a little bit annoying.I liked Vladimir very much although he wasn't very talkative. :)
Sometimes when I've finished a book and have all the relevant information in my head, I can't help but to feel sorry for the villain, and that's certainly the case in this second novel in Simenon's Maigret series.
There are a number of potential suspects and motives, but as I said, once the case was solved, I couldn't help but feel sorry for the murderer, and I think it would take someone with a heart of stone to feel otherwise.certainly recommended, but there are better books to come.
I hope the other four will come my way before too long.The world loved Maigret when he was introduced so long ago and now readers of today can enter Maigret's kingdom.
Yes, I have seen Maigret on PBS, but reading is more enjoyable for me.This particular book satisfies my historical fiction cravings in the detailed descriptions of barges and other crafts, some motor, some horse-drawn making their progress through the lock systems and the towns, life and taverns along the way.
Somewhat comically Maigret must make his way numerous times up to 60 kilometers on bicycle to keep up with suspects and gather evidence surrounding the deaths of two people.
In this novel, one of his earlier ones, Simenon has his protagonist, Chief Inspector Maigret, investigate a murder that happened along one of the canal locks.
The woman who was killed (strangled by a set of strong hands) was the wife of a British Count who had been sailing on his yacht through the canals, heading towards his usual vacation site.
Soon after, the Count’s servant was found in the canal – also strangled.
Maigret realizes that he must broaden the search for the killer to include a number of barge people as well, as soon as he could come up with a reasonable motive.
Possibly what I appreciated most of this book is the atmosphere that Simenon is capable to re-create in the story, everything on it sounds genuine.
We can come to realise that Simenon had experienced life in the canals by which he himself had sailed.
The book in itself is difficult to class as a detective novel, the author unveils much more than a clue in the very title but, this doesn’t prevent us at all from enjoying its reading.
Nonetheless, I don’t think it to be the best choice for those who would like to start getting familiarised for the first time with our author and his character.
This is the 2nd book in a series of about 75 in the Inspector Maigret series by Belgium writer, George Simenon.
I'm going to give it one more try with the third in the series and if that one is like the first two then I'm giving up.Note: I picked this book up because I read in a European newspaper that if you enjoy Patricia Highsmith's sociological/pathological thrillers you'd like Simenon's Maigret series.
Well, I absolutely love, love, love Highsmith - did I say love her...but, so far Simenon -- Uhhh, no.
This Inspector Maigret mystery is set on and around a French inland canal around 1930 (about the time this one was written), at a time when a lot of the barges using these inland canals were powered by horses pulling them from towpaths alongside the canal.
A woman's dead body is discovered in a stable by two carters (men who worked with the barges) who had been sleeping in the stable that night nearby.
Another great mystery which helped Georges Simenon consolidate his reputation as the greeat French mystery writer of the mid-20th century.
Atmosfere, ambienti e caratteri resi con maestria e sintesi.Le vicende umane dei protagonisti assumono, via via che ci si avvicina all'epilogo, sempre più rilievo e, come sempre accade in Simenon, prevalgono sulla soluzione del giallo.
Simenon, c'est toute une atmosphère. Ici, c'est le monde des mariniers fluviaux, des charretiers de péniche et des éclusiers au début des années 30. Quel coup de maître !
Brilliant mystery.Atmospheric weather and wonderful characters.Had me guessing and will be reading more of his novels!
I picked this up thinking it was one of Simenon’s gritty, miserable noirs, only to discover with some modest disappointment that it regarded another investigation his implacable, largely silent ogre Maigret. Since I actually don’t really care in the slightest about the internal plot mechanisms of mysteries, I find procedurals kind of tedious, which makes me not a very good judge of whether or not this is a good book. The stuff about the grand canal system was kind of a hoot, though, he’s got an admirable sense of place.
Questa volta é andata molto meglio, nonostante sia solo il mio secondo Maigret ho iniziato a prendere confidenza con lo stile dell'autore.Seppur breve questo testo mi ha veramente sorpreso, grande caratterizzazione dei personaggi e trama sempre ad alti livelli, se non si arriva alle ultime 5 pagine difficilmente si riesce a risolvere il caso. Ora sono pronto per il terzo volume!!!!
Great sense of place in this episode. Set on a canal with locks, yachts, barges and horses on the tow path. Another tragedy brought to life with Maigret.
In "LOCK 14", Simenon makes alive to the reader the lives of the people --- bargees.
The woman's husband ("the colonel"), a tight-lipped Englishman in his 60s, who, in an earlier life, had been a privileged army officer in India, but is now retired and lives aboard his own yacht: The Southern Cross.
Willy Marco, another of the colonel's attendents travelling on the Southern Cross, who, at the Colonel's behest, fields Maigret's initial queries.
As the story unfolds, the reader is made aware that the murdered woman (Mary Lampson) and her husband had a rather loose, if not wholly open, marriage.
This is one of my favourite Maigret stories as it has the detective outside his domestic comforts of Paris; spending his time beside a canal following the discovery of a female body in a stable.I originally read it as "Lock 14".
You see his compassion, ease making enquiries and a reflection of someone at ease with himself and comfortable around working people.Word of caution: There is a serious mistake, duplicated on p93 of my copy where the name of the boat is incorrectly given.
From my earlier copy the boat is named as "Phenix" - please don't let this error that potentially undermines the plot, stop you from reading this classic.
Anche in questo caso (caratteristica che diventerà comune via via a diversi se non tutti i romanzi di Maigret) ci si trova di fronte a un personaggio colpito da un evento traumatico capace di metterlo di fronte al suo destino.
In questo romanzo ci presenta un mondo a lui ben noto, quello dei canali di transito delle navi, visto che per due anni ha navigato per quei luoghi della Francia e della Germania con sua moglie e da cui sono nati i suoi primi due romanzi del commissario Maigret.
Simenon per un periodo della propria vita visse, con la moglie, su di un'imbarcazione spostandosi tra Francia, Belgio e Olanda, attraverso canali navigabili.
E proprio grazie a questa esperienza, rende questo ambiente, ovvero quello di canali navigabili, chiatte, chiuse ecc… , protagonista di "Il cavallante della Providence".
E questo inusuale "sfondo" è raccontato in tutte le sfaccettature, dai guardiani delle chiuse, alle stalle dove sono ospitati cavalli e cavallanti che si occupano delle chiatte, le poche costruzioni ai margini delle chiuse, il cafè, le strade parallele ai canali che Maigret percorre in bicicletta, le alzaie…In tutto questo scenario, affascinante per la minuziosità e l'efficacia delle descrizioni, viene rinvenuto un cadavere di una donna che nulla sembra a che fare con questo mondo; una donna elegante, agghindata di collane e perle, trovata in un pagliericcio in una stalla.
The strangled body of a distinguished lady is found in the stable at Lock 14 (in those days many barges were motorless, and drawn along by horses on the towpath beside the canal), the junction of the Marne River and the canal.
After questioning that party, Maigret feels the answer may lie with those aboard La Providence, a canal barge which has already continued up the canal.
Wonderful reading as Maigret pedals a bicycle 40 miles along the towpath, questioning lockkeepers and boatmen along the way.
When finally he reaches the barge at Lock 19, he puts the pieces together and solves the murder.
