https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/289029.Who_Will_Cry_When_You_Die_Life_Lessons_from_the_Monk_Who_Sold_His_Ferrari
Is a great author His book The Monk who Sold His Ferrari was unique and appealing ...
But this book "Who Will Cry When You Die" is a life lessons from the monk who sold his ferrari ....It is so simple and was written by simple language ...
Robin Sharma#" wisdom is knowing what to do next, skill is knowing how to do it, and virtue is doing it " observed David Starr Jordan.#the person who asks for what he wants at least has a chance of getting what he wants.
Robin Sharma "who will cry when you die".# "I wept because I had no shoes until I saw a man who had no feet"
Filled with inspirational reflections for wise and prosperous living; reading this will set you on the path to a happier, healthier you.
من اكثر الكتب التي احببتهابسيط وسلس.. اشارة مرور حمراء للتوقف مع الذات وتقدير الاشياء البسيطة في الحياةاشبه بماراثون حياة اكس لارج الذي طرحته في مدونتي استروجيناتمليء بالقصص التي مر بها الكاتب وجعلته يقدر الحياة ويهتم بما يجب ان يتركه من بعدهالكتاب عبارة عن عناوين قصيرة من صفحتين اقل او اكثريمكن قراءة اي عنوان منها.. لا يحتاج الى الربط بينها او التركيز فيهالذا من الممتع قراءته في السيارة او في اوقات الانتظاراوصي به لمن اراد التأمل في الحياة وعبرها الجميلة:)
Well i am not a fan of Self Help books like these! They do give you a pump but at the end of the day you know that everything has to come from inside ;) These books are just like a beer that makes you feel high for few hours and when you wake up next morning everything is gone :P
Live your life such a way that when you die the world cries and you rejoice".
This is the crux of the book written by the author of the bestseller ‘The Monk who sold his Ferrari’ who tells one how to lead a prosperous life in a simple, direct and easy-to-read way.The author, though very young, has been able to summon some really good and inspiring unknown as well as known but not practised advice.
The book is like a guide to be opened up and read randomly whenever one is feeling that they are not living up to their full potential as the advice would surely give one a new way of approaching life.
Most people don't really fail; they simply give up trying We know everything whatever told in this book, but do we really follow those??
It’s not just about knowing things which helps you.
The real worth of knowing things is when we really implement in our daily life.
I know there are many people who might hate this book saying it's ridiculously obvious stuff but truth and happiness lies in the obvious stuff which we forget always :)Youth is not a time of life; it’s a state of mind.
People grow old only by deserting their ideals and by outgrowing the consciousness of youth.
The book is full of preachings about "the right way to lead a good life" presented in a list like manner rather than the thoughts weaved in a story line or put in a philosophical manner to make an interesting read.
In my opinion contemplating your life for half the time that you would need to finish the book would be much more fruitful.Everything explained in the book is true, except that there is not a single 'thing to do' mentioned throughout the book that I did not already do or was at least aware of.
But if you have no time on hand and need a quick check list to inculcate simple methods for refining your ways of life, you could give it a go.
Lessons for life ? Yes one hundred percent. Good read.Some questions answered are1. Discover Your Calling2. Every Day, Be Kind to a Stranger3. Maintain Your Perspective4. Practice Tough Love5. Keep a Journal6. Develop an Honesty Philosophy7. Honor Your Past8. Start Your Day Well9. Learn to Say No Gracefully10. Take a Weekly Sabbatical11. Talk to yourself12. Schedule worry Breaks13. Model a Child14. Remember, Genius Is 99 Percent Inspiration15. Care for the Temple16. Learn to Be Silent
I think this is the best book I've ever read- in the way that it gives so many good advices.
After reading (and while reading) this book I put myself together, became more disciplined (e.g. it inspired me to wake up earlier in mornings, to go swimming in mornings, to think more positive etc.).
I really recommend this book if you need a little push to make some things change in yourself- because it has this amazing power to make you change (unless you don't want it).
This book is really worth reading!
How can you one star a book without reading it, you ask.
I hate it when authors use the success of their previous book to sell new books.
I'm referring to how E.L. James wrote the same fucking book from his point of view, and that became a best seller too.
Or Ravinder Singh, who, while banking on the success of his first book, referred to it more times than I could count in his second book, to sell it.
Sharma here does the same, and nope.
Just nope.
P.S. What does does it mean that all of the books that I've referred to above are shit books?
Robin Sharma - the man who inspired me to change the way I look at life. Robin is an amazing writer who has himself transformed his life and has helped numerous others to change the way they look at life. Who Will Cry When You Die? is an amazing book that helps us see the deeper truth of life and help prioritize what is important and what is not.I strongly recommend this book to everyone, to read it, re-read it and follow the teachings in the book to see a change in your life.All the best.
Very small & little acts during your daily moments of life which we tend to overlook/don't have time/just not interested.
The best part of this book which I personally loved is the division of the whole book in small chapters, this tends to make it an enjoyable experience.
While reading certain chapters I could easily remember some moments of my own childhood passing through my eyes which many times made me laugh-out loud & feel the sudden burst of happiness , energy flowing through my blood.
I would say it is not an one time read, rather one should read it again & again & again.
opens your mind!
One day at work, I found a book at my desk with a note that read, "This is for you.
It is an excellent book with much wisdom on how to live your life.
I absolutely love this book and I hope you enjoy it too." I pass this book and note on to you.
Though the title is morose, the contents are uplifting.
Such mini chapters include, "Stop Condemning," "Go on a News Fast," and "Don't Finish Every Book You Start." Some chapters will resonate stronger than others however I'd suggest listening to that latter chapter's advice after you finish this book.
This book offers beautiful pieces of advice if taken seriously can create good habits and values that leads to success.
It is beautifully written, easy to read and follow and quiet enjoyable.
My favourite quotes in the book:'When you were born, you cried while the world rejoiced.
Live your life in such a way that when you die the world cries while you rejoice''Effective, fulfilled people do not spend time doing what is most convenient and comfortable.
They have the courage to listen to their hearts and do the wise thing''The way you begin your day determines the way you will live your day'
Reading a book of this sort will definitely makes ones day. I really enjoyed the book, though thought provoking at times. Most of these lessons are known to us probably we neglect them or take it for granted we postpone them to practice. Enjoy reading the book.
It really makes me think after this book. It is just like asking myself if I am living on my purpose and if i am doing the right thing. Really helps me to understand the views in the future. :)
As per me, Robin Sharma is the only person who can teach how to live life peacefully along with Success
"If you follow the crowd, the place you will most likely end up is exit. "
Biasanya daya tarik buku-buku begini itu justru karena banyak disisipi kejadian nyata yang menyentuh hati.
Dan makin ke belakang nasihatnya berasa diulang-ulang lang-lang.Ada bagian yang menarik, sih.
Misalnya pas dia bilang kalau rekreasi itu sebaiknya kegiatan yang membuat kita jadi punya energi untuk berkreasi kembali.
Jadi piknik atau nyantai pun juga harus bijak.
Juga pas dia bilang dia punya "dewan cendekia" berupa para filsuf dan orang bijak yang sudah meninggal.
Kalau dia bingung terhadap suatu masalah, dia akan berimajinasi kalau sedang berkonsultasi dengan Thoreau, Emerson, etc.Aku sebenarnya malah lebih tertarik sama The Monk Who Sold His Ferrari tapi pas di bazar ga nemu.
The tragedy of life is not death, but what we let die inside of us while we live.~Norman Cousins.At some point of our lives, we all need some advice regarding our life’s whereabouts.
The secret power lies within us.
I know, many of us have already heard about this book.
Some lucky souls might have also read this book.
Let me retell you a thing you all know.
This book is such a work that you need to study daily.
I read 2-3 chapters daily.
The book deals with practical solutions that can make our life more valuable.
“Who will cry when you die” offers 101 inspirational lessons on how to live a more focused prosperous life, in a simple direct and easy-to-read way. Some of the tips are clichés like keep a journal, a walk in the woods and have family meals but others are thought provoking like become an imposter, create a hero list, and have a living funeral, you can easily carry the book with you , it will offer inspiration through out your day.
not to judge by what it says "cry when u die"reminds u of what u r losing in lifeeach lesson is a lesson for life.u start enjoing small things in life.language is simple n understanding.not to miss it
Simple and neat work by Robin Sharma.many things suggested can be incorporated in our lives to bring about the transformation within
Every once in a while I feel the need to read an inspirational book, it does me good.
This is the first book of Robin Sharma's that I have read, although I do have another one waiting.This is a collection of 101 very short "life lessons".
so much so that this felt a lot more like a compilation of quotes than an original work.
I felt cheated somehow by this realization.However, I did come away with some nuggets of wisdom:1.
If you have not read today, you have not lived today.
This is a certain recipe for a life of regret.5.
The tragedy of life is not death, but what we let die inside of us while we live.~Norman Cousins.At some point of our lives, we all need some advice regarding our life’s whereabouts.
Let me quote a reasonable lesson from a chapter here, about why to develop honesty within your words…Saying things we don’t really mean becomes a habit when we practice it long enough.
And breaking the bonds of trust ultimately leads to a string of broken relationships.So, I’d like to recommend the book “Who will cry when you die?” by Robin Sharma in the one-book-a-month recommendation.Happy reading!￼
Many of the teachings are based on his personal experience, which may not work for you as each person is different.
It reminds me an storyA person having defective eye vision visited an oculist (eye specialist).The oculist gave him a pair of specs.
The person visited the oculist after a day and told him that he still could not see clearly even with the specs.
In fact his vision got worse after using the specs.The doctor was surprised.
These specs worked perfectly well for me.
How could they not work for you?
A simple lucid read...
Who Will Cry When You Die?
is one of the most easy-to-read self-help books.
Big life lessons in small pockets of words.
When to wake up, how to start your morning, how to get the best out of those 24 hours of your day and how to make your life worth it, and so on and so forth, every such question finds it's answer in the 101 lessons that Robin Sharma reflects upon.
A book that deserves to be in your bag the whole time, because the lessons are to be read-applied-and then reread.
That time, a book might well come in handy.
This book is like the 101 on life (not literally).
It has some good ideas and thoughts, and if you just look at the title itself, you might be happier than you were the moment before.
It's one book that you can't classify as "one-time-read" or "re-readable".
Because after reading some of it, you might just contemplate if you're life is on that track.
The way it's put, you might well feel it's like a checklist.
While I do think the book is good, I'd say you to not look at it as the checklist.
I mostly enjoyed this book.
It contains a great many lessons that we all should practice in life.
I was a little disappointed and perplexed by the seeming contradictions also contained.
Like families, children and society.
As a devout individualist I am reticent to conforming to society's conventions.
I do not believe that the kind of people who would read this book would be interested in what society has to say.
So if you are and individualist, like me skim parts of this book that may go against the grain of who you are!
