https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17376287-the-outline-of-history
Having decided WWI was the "War to end all wars", Wells traverses human history from pre-history to the post-WWI era and still decides WWI was so bloody and atrocious that humanity would never again let itself come to global conflict.Well, leaving off the hopelessly optimistic conclusion penned mere years before WWII, this is still one of my favorite world history works.Among the wisdow Wells gets right in my opinion: "The natural political map of the world insists upon itself. It heaves and frets beneath the artificial political map like some misfitted giant."That itself expains much of human history.
I came across this two volume series while working my through a list of 100 books recommended by Will Durant for those wanting a broad education. This series is by all means the best and most comprehensive general history book I have ever read. I usually don't buy books but this one was worth purchasing to add to the library.
Having just given a glowing review of Will and Ariel Durant's eleven volume history of human civilization, some mention of Wells' own, earlier and much shorter (two volumes in the current editions expanded by his son and others) attempt to bring it all together seems appropriate.
While it is very interesting to read anyone who essays such an ambitious project, Wells' work pales in comparison to the Durants'.
Still, Wells is Wells, generally regarded as a more important writer than the Durants, so some may want to check this out as a nonfictional adjunct to his prognosticative novels.
A good overview of world history, though necessarily cursory and Euro-centric.
I had next to no historical understanding of the world before reading this and now I feel that I understand the basics.
I feel like this book and its treatment of history would bore more knowledgeable readers, but as a general ignoramus I found it thoroughly fascinating and very readable.
It seems like a good a place to start as any for people who know nothing about history.
This book has very much changed my understanding of the world.I suppose that I'm going to tackle the Durants next.
Some of his views are very perceptive - for example his comment that India is likely to absorb a lot more of western knowledge through English (consider the role of India in the knowledge economy, almost a century later) and how much China can achieve if it can simplify its language (I do not know a great deal about it, but I wonder if China's recent growth is also linked to the emergence of simplified Chinese that was introduced after the Chinese Revolution in 1949).
it was the mentality of the pedants and of men politically impotent; its philosophy was a pompous evasion of real things and its scientific impulse was dead.” But if you can get past some of the silly critiques, the book does provide a fascinating glimpse into the mindset of the late 19th/early 20th century.
Unfortunately his historical skills don't measure up to his writing, but I would recommend this book to any who are interested in an entertaining view of the mindset of a time gone by.
city dwellers thesis (originally ibn Khaldun's, but Wells applies it globally), his attempt to focus on, or at least mention the status of common working class people at various points in history, and the attention he gives to India, China, and the Muslim world as civilizations.
Those familiar with the Morloks and Eloi will see echoes of that parable in Wells discussion of class conflicts and the development of socialism.His final chapters, rising from the ashes of the "World to End All Wars" are a great read for their optimism about humanity, and a hope for world peace.
Will read more of when I get a good copy to own. Wells would write that sentence better.
The chronology started to jump around, Wells became more opinionated, and the narrative was ever more reliant on maps that were nearly illegible and missing locations described in the text.He also very often will say "we do not have time to go into this here" even though he has time to say that so repetitively and insert his own interpretations of events (there were pages dedicated to the negative influence Alexander the Great's mother had on him).The history is very Eurocentric, and right when I was wondering how much of the rest of the globe would be covered in the ~500 BC period, it mentioned that there is plenty of information on India's history in existence, but it needs to be made more accessible to Western audiences.I skipped around a bit looking for a few specifics.
Almost a century ago, H.G. Wells, famed writer of some of the greatest science fiction of all time, came home from the tragedies of WWI and devoted himself to this Outline of History in an effort to educate subsequent generations to form a greater world union in which all humanity could prosper with security and dignity.
If our sense of community and our social science were equal to the tasks required of them...this great increment in production would have benefited the whole community...but though the common standard of living has risen, the rise has been on a scale disproportionately small...There has been much sheer waste.
على الرغم أن ويلز حاول أن يخرج من النظرة الأوروبية المتحمورة حول الذات، فتناول تاريخ الإسلام والهند والصين، إلا أنه يعطيهم حقهم الواجب لإسهام هذه الحضارات في حركة التاريخ، فظل كتابه في النهاية تاريخ أوروبي للعالم.
Wells attempted to be subjective and exceed the euro-centric vision for the world, so he introduced the civilization of Islam, India and China, but still not on the level that match the real roles for these civilizations in the history of human kind, so Wells' outline still european history for the wrld.
Here is some information I found to be useful:- "language is the instrument of thought as book-keeping is the instrument of business."- "Men paid in liberty for safety, shelter, and regular meals."- "Education is the preparation of the individual for the community"- "There will be little drudgery in this better-ordered world.
Natural power harnessed in machines will be the general drudge.
What drudgery is inevitable will be done as a service and duty for a few years or months out of each life; it will not consume nor degrade the whole life of anyone."
Personally, this was a very enjoyable read. However, I love History so for anyone else this might feel like reading a textbook. Amazing detail for a brief outline of world History. Very accurate but will have own personal interpretations on events.
Certainly idiosyncratic. But fascinating. Very good and fair descriptions of the great religious leaders. He does not think highly of Rome for example. The only bit that is a little bit annoying is the constant view from the moderns. Everything seems to compare badly to (his) modern Britain.
Did not finish
highly recommend it for people who don't want to know history in great details.
This is what everyone thinks of when they think of why they hated history in school. It's so incredibly dry. I gave up on the audiobook 10 hours into the 44 hours because I just couldn't do it anymore. The slow, monotone British voice is as far from attention-holding as possible.
In my humble opinion the greatest and most comprehensive account of world history ever written.
A classic.What great words:"We are beginning to understand something of what the world might be, something of what our race might become, Were it not for our still raw humanity.
We have writing and teaching, science and power ; we have tamed the beasts and schooled the lightning ; but we are still only shambling towards the light.
We have tamed and bred the beasts, but we have still to tame and breed ourselves."
I've been procrastinating writing this review, because I hate saying that something by HG Wells really wasn't all that good.
It reads like most history books from that era.
It was dry, had very little detail on any one person, but plenty of details on events and transactions, and it jumped all over the place so it was hard to put things into the context of a time period.
Here and there, Wells would step out of the narrative to give the big picture and his take on things, and that's where I saw what I've come to expect from his writing.
تاریخ را یا تاریخ دانان به خشکی روایت کرده اند و یا داستان نویسان آمیخته با تخیل و به نفع داستانشانح
Not much to think, since it was probably plagiarized from an unknown writer named Florence Deeks. "The New Yorker" or some such publication had a fairly convincing article about it. Book plagiarism was apparently quite common back then. Steinbeck allegedly filched "The Grapes of Wrath" from an unknown newspaper stringer. Then there was the notorious Henri Gauthier-Villiers, who kept Colette locked in a room and chained to a desk, writing books for which Gauthier-Villiers took full credit.
Very, very long, but I didn't give it more than 25 minutes. A history of just about everything, it starts with a long list of acknowledgements and follows that with a pre-tectonic account of the Earth's formation. It makes me wonder which of my beloved nonfiction books will seem ugly and old by the time that I die.
I am so bummed. I took this book to read on a trip recently and left it on the plane. I was using it to help me teach Ancient History this year. I enjoyed reading it because Wells did a great job of taking what could be boring non-fiction and made it read more as a novel. Hopefully someday I will find another copy and finish reading it.
I bought an edition for 25 cents in some old barn of a place. Was pleased to see it in Scott Fitzgerald's education of Sheila. Now it's dated, a bit creaky. But it was fun then, when school seemed all about American history and Rousseau/Marx sort of world history.
huh.... what a book......I think H G Wells has created two time machines......One is his famous novel n another is this book......it really makes you travel through catalogues of time.......real good .....sheer awesome....
Mr Wells had strong openions....and they made thire way into whatever he wrote, including his attempt at history.I read this long ago during a period when I had a lot of time on my hands. The read was interesting, and he covers the basics of history all right, along with his take on them.
The most readable overview of World History I've ever seen. Nearly a hundred years old (although it's occasionally updated) but, in my opinion, still the one to read first.
Should have been a textbook in high school history class. What an overview! Other than Piltdown Man, not much to revise.
This book is hilarious... History as fiction.
A really bad encyclopedia. Opinions are presented as facts.
