https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/207266.The_Adventures_of_Captain_Underpants
However, much like Goosebumps, I cannot help but have a lot of gratitude for a series which got so many kids reading.Harold and George are a couple of Ohioan pranksters who write, illustrate, distribute and sell homemade comic books called "The Amazing Captain Underpants" about a superhero in his skivvies who fights crime and monsters.Mr. Krupp, the school principal and is the boys' enemy.
I read this when I was in Year 4, I read it over the holidays and I think I gave it to my little sister (it is now sitting in her bookshelf), but I don't know, there is just something about Captain Underpants and his ridiculous adventures that has me laughing (a lot). I also like the fact that it is basically two storys in one and the author wrote the comic into the story, in the end equals a funny/enjoyable read.
I heard these Captain Underpants (HAHAHAH!
UNDERPANTS!) books have been banned in places.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Foolishness.
But do people really think that kids will read this and be influenced to become "rebels" like George and Harold, the main characters in these books?Yes, people DO think that because people are dumb.* sigh *The boys in the book make comic books that involve their principal, aka CAPTAIN UNDERPANTS!!!
Anyway, I could think of worse things.We started with this and read the entire Underpants series.
immature.So, yes, the books influenced us to talk more potty talk, but it also influenced my son to start making his own comic books.BEHOLD!
Here comes that valiant hero, CAPTAIN UNDERPANTS! “The Adventures of Captain Underpants” is a popular children’s book from the creative mind of Dav Pilkey and it is about the hilarious adventures of George and Harold as they try to trick their strict principal Mr. Krupp, but their trick ends up backfiring on them! “The Adventures of Captain Underpants” is absolutely one of the funniest books ever created!!! “Tra-la-laaa!” Man, I am going to be saying that throughout this review! Dav Pilkey has d
“The Adventures of Captain Underpants” is a popular children’s book from the creative mind of Dav Pilkey and it is about the hilarious adventures of George and Harold as they try to trick their strict principal Mr. Krupp, but their trick ends up backfiring on them!
Captain Underpants sort of remind me of Quailman from the Nickelodeon show “Doug” as both characters saves the word in their underwear.Dav Pilkey’s illustrations are truly hilarious and childish in this book as George and Harold always have mischievous looks on their faces.
Read this a super long time ago. I can't even remember if I liked it haha
O CAPTAIN! my Captain! your fearful underpants don't shun; George and Harold have weather’d every rack, the prize they sought is won; Evil is near, school bells I hear, children all emoting, While follow eyes the steady keel, the vessel grim and daring:  Underpants! Underpants! Underpants! Ms. Ribble, mean with eyes of red,  Where on the deck my Captain fights,  Professor Pippy Pee-Pee Poopypants cold and dead.
Well, I can see why boys that this is aimed at love these books.
I only read it because it was for banned/challenged/controversial lesson in children's lit class.
I avoided them when my little brother read them.
But it's a comic book feel and draws in reluctant boy readers.
Still, it has so much bad grammar and few if any redeeming qualities...I cringe when I have to recommend them.Class review: Silly story, appealing to kids who wouldn't want something serious.
A mix of a comic book and early chapter book--aimed at children who want to read something ridiculous.
THIS is one of the most frequently banned / challenged books of the past decade because (according to an article I read) "it is said to contain offensive language, to be sexually explicit and to be anti-family." Um...
This is akin to the parents of MY generation who wanted to ban Loony Toons because they were apparently afraid we'd all run out and drop an anvil on somebody's head before shoving a stick of TNT in their shoe.This book was harmless elementary school fun, with a few winks and moments of absurdity that only an adult reader would likely get.
I know I'm old to read this because it is intended for young kids; I can't control my hands on getting copies of this series. This is a children's book, however the humor is slightly older so adults, such as I, could appreciate and have a good laugh while reading this.
A pretty entertaining comic-starter for the youngins. Not something to be taken seriously, and actually kind of funny at times. A very entertaining read about how two boys who love pranks, create the ultimate prank.
I wanted to find it offensive (because the initial premise is just that: the boys make their principal into the main character which is very disrespectful and embarrassing) but I have to admit: the book is funny.
Kids love it and if it gets kids to read, then I'm all for it.
This book appealed to kids that I take care of that normally either don't read or only read low-level comic books (I am aware that comic books can be art forms in and of themselves but that's a different discussion.) So, against my better judgment, I have to say, pretty durn good.
I've read this before, mostly to check out why it was listed as a banned book.
I thought it was hilarious and although our girls weren't too eager at first for me to read it to them, they loved it once we got started.
It was a fast read, with lots of cartoonish illustrations and it had lots of tongue in cheek humor that I appreciated.
She borrowed the first book from her elementary school library and read it in one day.
Now she wants to read them all...
My kids loved these back when they were in elementary school! I read this as part of a "Banned Book" challenge and I really don't see why this was so offensive, even for little kids. People will get their noses out of joint for some of the silliest reasons....
Jangan sampai tingkah laku mereka, meskipun lucu, menjadi suri tauladan...;PKalau diingat-ingat lagi, buku-buku Enid Blyton juga seringkali tidak memberi teladan yang baik, khususnya serial Pasukan Mau Tahu yang senantiasa mempermainkan Pak Goon sang polisi desa, atau serial anak asrama Malory Tower atau St. Clare yang murid-muridnya suka mempermainkan guru...N.B. Tergantung anaknya juga sih, buktinya biarpun tertawa-tawa membaca keusilan Pasukan Mau Tahu atau kenakalan para murid Malory Tower/St. Clare, aku toh tidak pernah (tidak bisa?
XP) mempraktekkannya di dunia nyata, tetap menjadi anak yang baik, manis, dan rajin menabung...
Haha I loved this. WHY DIDNT I ACTUALLY READ IT BACK IN THE DAY? Oh yeah I was lazy and thought reading was boring. WELL LOOK HOW THE TABLES HAVE TURNED.
এত কুট! মানে কিউট রে বাবা!
My two boys think these books are the FUNNIEST things ever. As you might imagine, there's plenty of toilet humour and silliness, but also some very clever plays on words etc. Only one little bugbear - the inaccurate spelling throws my youngest off sometimes, and means he spells the words wrong himself! Well worth reading with kids aged 5-9ish?
The original was a blast...but it's even more fun in color!
For the full review, please visit us at www.motherdaughterbookreviews.comSON SAYS:What I liked and disliked about it: I like the part where they bring Dr. Diaper to the police station and tie him to the pole with underwear on his head and put a sign on him that says “Arrest me!” I think that George and Harold are funny and I would want to be friends with them because then they wouldn’t do bad stuff to me because we would be friends.
A fine example of the reason to never judge a book by its cover, (or its illustration-packed pages) if parents withhold Captain Underpants from their kids for fear that it’s not ‘educational enough’, they’ll be depriving them of a witty, loveable, well developed series that could be the one that gets your non-reader hooked on books.
Whenever anything bad happened, George and Harold were usually responsible,” Pilkey quips, a joke that whizzed by me so fast I had to read it twice, and set me up on my toes for the rest of the story.
A great book to read with or to children.
I came upon this book when working at a Daycare/Kindergarten program. One of the students had decided to read it for Quiet Time. He asked me to read it. I was unaware as to the content of Captain Underpants book. This is a book that should not be on the shelves for Kindergartners. It is inappropriate and vulgar. It is one thing if your the parent and want your kid to read it. I don't have too much problem with that, but I don't believe that it's appropriate for a kindergarten shelf. The language kind of suprised me.
The cover looks silly but for children this is fun. There's humor that's not cheesy or obnoxious, everything from the villain's van saying "The Bad Guys" on it to the bizarre conception of the Captain Underpants comic book. Not actually a story about him, it's the two of two bratty kids who conceive this character and make a comic book out of him, order a hypno-ring to control their irritating principal, and spread general mayhem around school and town. Clever drawings accompany the text, which is easy to read for all ages. Better than I figured it would be.
Hah I used to read my brother's Captain Underpants books.. tra la la la
3.5Es adorable y entretenido para pasar el rato, pero me resultó demasiado tonto para la edad para la que se promociona.
Very cute and funny, with great artwork. This thirty-year-old kid at heart loved it.
4.5 stars | Blog “George and Harold were usually responsible kids. Whenever anything bad happened, George and Harold were usually responsible.” There's not much to say that hasn't already been said about the Adventures of Captain Underpants. Yes, it's silly—insanely silly, really—but it's also hilarious. The two troublemakers George and Harold sure know how to get into trouble…but they also get themselves out of it. The graphic novel aspect of this added another level enjoyment to this story and
“George and Harold were usually responsible kids.
Whenever anything bad happened, George and Harold were usually responsible.”
There's not much to say that hasn't already been said about the Adventures of Captain Underpants.
The two troublemakers George and Harold sure know how to get into trouble…but they also get themselves out of it.
The graphic novel aspect of this added another level enjoyment to this story and as a kid, I adored it.Children who are looking for a fun and funny read should definitely give the Captain Underpants series a try!
The mean principle Mr. Krupp is hypnotized by the boys after being mean to them and turns into Captain Underpants, the super-hero from George and Harold's comic books.
This book showcases the actual comics that the boys write into the story and draws readers in.
The concepts that the boys write in their comics relate to probably every 4th grade child's thoughts about school.
Also, the comic book style helps to lure in readers because they feel like they are reading two stories in one.
The book is about two fourth-grade students, George and Harold, and their comic book hero Captain Underpants.
Mr. Krupp, now Captain Underpants, believes he is a superhero who must fight crime in the name of underwear.
With the help of George and Harold, Captain Underpants destructs the robots and defeats Dr. Diaper using the power of his underpants.
Unfortunately for Mr. Krupp, George and Harold are unable to change him back to his normal self and he must spend the rest of his life as Captain Underpants.
Because the book is easy and fun, it can be used to get reluctant children into reading.
Read this in advance of the upcoming Adventures of Captain Underpants movie. Laugh-out-loud funny!(I found out last night that this is among banned books. So I've dedicated this review to all those whose panties may already be in a twist. Captain Underpants will save the day! Tra-la-LA!)
I say the both of them because they are two fourth grade pranksters, who are best friends and next-door neighbours and feature together throughout the whole story.
Anyways, I like them because they have a reputation as "rebels" in their school who are always pulling off funny pranks to impress other school kids but most off all to annoy their principal who dislikes them strongly.
His name is Principal Benjamin Krupp.
What was the most exciting part and why?The most exciting part for me was the "Flip-O-Rama" it is a neat little feature in the book that is actually quite funny.
Soon after they get an even better idea, to hypnotize their principal and turn him into Captain Underpants.
Their plan back fired though when they realized the hypnosis was not only permanent (he would turn into the super hero whenever he heard a finger snap, and back to normal when covered in water), but keeping their principal (whenever he’s Captain Underpants) out of danger was now their responsibility.
Complete with flip-o-rama illustrations, this book is packed full of adventure and cottony fun.While some people are against Captain Underpants books in the classroom, I am all for it (especially as an independent read).
It encouraged me to look for other funny books to read.
Unless you have a 5 or 6 year old boy, it's hard to appreciate the pure genius of Captain Underpants.
Until my son wanted to read them, and then I gave them, all 8 of his first CU books, a shot.
I love Pilkey's small details that I'm sure are thrown in there for the adults who have to read about a grown man saving the world in his underpants.
They are cleverly written, with a comic book within the book (created by the main characters) and really funny one-page flip-o-ramas that are so silly, but my son loves them.
(BTW, if you like these, his Dumb Bunny books are really funny too!)
Published: 2000Author: Dav PilkeyRecommened for: mostly for childrensuch a good and funny childrens book, I remember reading this book when I was younger and I couldn't stop laughing at it. Dav Pilkey has a way of writing that connects to the reader and makes them feel like they are part of it and part of the adventure. I loved this series as a child and I think alot of children will enjoy it, if they aren't very good at reading this book will still be great for them with it been like a comic strip.
My two seven year old beautiful but restless daughters are thrilled with those series, and are constantly reading this aloud to us. So it's their rating, not mine. Now they demand to give 5 stars here to all Captain Underpants books. I think it's about time for them to start their own Goodreads.
The colors make the story pop out and dealing with Captain Underpants, it makes the adventure mind-blowing as he tries to save the day and the boys trying to save him from harm.I believe this book is perfect for kids who do not like to read because it doesn't feel like you are reading at all during the whole time.
It is a humorous, imaginative and well illustrated book that tells the story of two boys and their teacher in school who they hypnotise into becoming a superhero by the name of Captain Underpants.
In the end the football team get hold of the video from Mr. Krupp and enjoy the sing along so much that they decide to change their name from the Knuckleheads to the Purple Dragon sing-along friends.This book is very humorous and should have no problem in keeping children between the ages of 5 and 8 interested, through its imaginative storyline and illustrations.
In this particular book they are in trouble with Principal Krupp and so decide to buy a 3D hypno-ring from a comic book in order to hypnotise him.
This goes a bit too far and Principal Krupp ends up believing that he is Captain Underpants.This book does not lend itself well to whole class reading.
This novel appealed to the Year 5 children in my class that were struggling with reading and many of whom were in intervention groups.
This lead to a queue in the library each week when one person returned the book and the rest of the children wanted to take it out immediately.
Doesn't get better than this. Complex characters and a fast paced plot. A feel good story. 7.3/5 stars.
...wasn't my finest literary time.
When I spotted Captain Underpants at a school book fair I asked my mother to buy it and after that I read every book when it came out.
A story about a grown man running around in underwear may seem rediculous, but then again looking at figures of authority and power, and observing their tender egos and delusions of grandeur the image becomes a little more tolerable.Captain Underpants instilled me the important lesson that power should always be checked, and, more importantly, potty jokes are funny no matter what the prudes say.If you would like another review of the book, I've written one for my site White Tower Musings.
I'm as surprised as you.
What can I say? If it gets silly enough to keep the attention of my young son reading, It must be a great book. I've read CU and laughed myself silly. My son, 9, has read and re read all the Capt. Underpants books. He's lost track how many times. Matt's words... "It was a wonder of words. They were the best books I've ever read. I loved it when the building blew up, and Captain Underpants used his underwear to capture the villain. He had to wear a barrel. HAHAHAHA!"
Recommended for Kids Aged 4-7 What's It About? - The story of this book/series revolves around 2 pranksters (George & Harold) who are always getting into way more trouble than any kid should.In their spare time, they also create/illustrate/distribute/sell their own original comic book - Captain Underpants. So in that sense the Captain Underpants comic book was a fictional story within this story, until it got too real for the kids in ways they had not imagined possible.My Thoughts - I read
So in that sense the Captain Underpants comic book was a fictional story within this story, until it got too real for the kids in ways they had not imagined possible.My Thoughts - I read this book with my 6 year old.
Especially because the target audience of this book is at the age where they are learning the spellings and word formation.
The last thing they need is to confuse the correct spellings or think it is okay to not spell words correctly, because well it is a part of their favorite comic book.
I wasn't sure that I would like it, but it is a charming book full of imaginative plots, darling characters, and interactive fun.
George and Harold remind me of my middle school students who really just want to have fun at school, yet they created and write a comic strip in their free time which is creative and clever.
I plan on using one of the chapters in my classes on Monday to introduce a free write assignment and to get their creative ideas started.
The comic strip is woven into the plot of the crazy antics these boys have together.
