https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/832543.Anatomy_of_the_Spirit
I read it at a time when I was actively seeking spiritual enlightenment, and this book absolutely fit the bill.
Wonder if I can find it in my stacks somewhere....Spiritual healing and intuitiveness.
I spent weeks reading this book - sometimes I would take 1 hour just to think about a particular passage.
Remaining attached to negative events and beliefs is toxic to our minds, spirits, cell tissue and lives.
The sweet energy of healing pours into our energy system every time we break a fear's authority over our lives.
Now I have gotten to the point that while I am not ecstatic when I see it, I do not have an immediate negative reaction.And truthfully, that only works in my favor here, as this book has been beyond helpful in creating a path to healing, where I take control of what needs to happen and I take the responsibility rather than creating a relationship where I can blame someone/thing else if I do not heal.And this is truly a gift.
IF this sounds amazingly new agey, she does not really approach it that way, but in a you need to eat good to get energy to do things.
Here's a great passage from it related to forgiveness as it relates to illness: "We all have negative feelings, but not all negativity produces disease.
To create disease, negative emotions have to be dominant, and what accelerates the process is KNOWING the negative thought to be toxic, but giving it permission to thrive in your consciousness anyway.
For instance, you may know you need to forgive someone, yet you decide that remaining angry gives you more power.
Remaining obsessively angry makes you more likely to develop a disease because the energy consequence of a negative obsession is powerlessness.
Like any good New Age woo, Myss combines all the major world religions and throws in some popular, scientific weasel words (ie Anatomy).
It, like in all of Myss’ books, reminds the reader that, though she offers a seeming science to the process of healing, it is likely that if you do not receive any benefit, it is because there is some Divine, incomprehensible reason beyond our current understanding.
Overall, a good solid book with lots of information, but it failed to provide me with tools that I can use at home to heal myself.
Meditating and questions are the only tools?And yes, I know how to meditate, and do.Not good enough for me.So, it was a personal difference for me.
I need tools to help me heal the no fracking issues that I'm dealing with right here and now, not a vague thing about meditation.I read the book, since it was a gift I will keep it in my library.
It was really an in depth look at the emotional, psychological and mental baggage we carry and how it can lead to spiritual and physical breakdowns.
She doesn't spend too much time talking about healing physical illness (when she does, she offers examples of those who were healed physically as a result of a breakthrough and those who weren't), but instead focuses a lot of time discussing the emotional and psychological ways of being, what contributes to breakdowns and how we can overcome them to live fuller, richer lives, more spiritually connected full of meaning and love.
This is one of my all time favorites. I'm reading it again to remind me of those spiritual lessons that are still hiding out from my consciousness :)
In any case I was driven to her work, which eventually made me get this book and Sacred Contracts: Awakening Your Divine Potential.The book explores the ways in which the Hindu chakras, the Kabbalah’s Sephirot (Tree of Life), and the Christian sacraments share seven stages of spiritual enlightenment.
I found her approach of citing a number of stories as examples of what can happen at each stage to be helpful.
I didn’t know what to make of these oft-mentioned chakras/stages, etc.
And while my own meditation experiences have led me to believe in the existence of these energy centers, I still find them tinged with mystery and complexity.
I alternated between liking the book and being really irritated with it.
This book completely ignores the science.
Myss gives an example of a man "healed" from HIV by "adopting a healthy, near-vegetarian diet, doing aerobic exercise, quitting smoking, using castor oil packs across his abdomen for 45 minutes a day, and psychotherapy" to come to terms with being gay.
Anectdotes like that just piss me off.
Other parts of the book do have good suggestions.
Just don't think that being in the closet will give you AIDS and admitting your sexual preference will heal you.
This is a walk through each of the body's seven energy centers (chakras), and she expertly explains what health challenges (physically and emotionally) are associated with each energy center, what the process of healing actually IS (physically and emotionally), and how each of the 7 energy centers relate to the 7 sacraments of christianity, the kabbalah tree of life, and some eastern traditions (because these are what she is most familiar with) -- the point being that this is not new information and the keys to this exact information are presented slightly differently in many spiritual traditions and have been passed down through the ages.
I read it years ago.Paul had given it to me when I was leaving for a personal retreat --(with a chakra precious gem necklace) -As 'crazy' as I am about 'this' book Carolyn wrote ---I feel the complete opposite on some books she has written in later years."Entering the Castle", finding the Inner Path and Your Soul's Purpose" ...was about preparing us for a mystical meeting with God.I couldn't stand things she was saying....leading us through castles -and mansions ...Plus--it were her book the way she told us too--it would NEVER leave our night stand.
It was as if she wrote the new bible to read daily --'forever'.Hated it!but LOVED this one!
I LOVED IT!!!!
I started reading this book out of boredom, it was a very random choice.
I have never heard of it or anything, and I'm sad that I didn't.
I didn't think I will finish it in one sitting.
Yes I know it's a very short book, but I was very sleepy so I really didn't think I will stay up for a book I have never heard of.
It might sound weird, but after reading this book I feel refreshed.
I feel more deep??
Like I know what's my next step is?
You guys must read it.
this book is pretty amazing. a slippery slope positive thinking, hippy, rabbit hole of books I read during yoga training. This one is about an intuitive doctor, who can actually diagnose patients by their energetic reading. I also find it horrifying (in a good way) how she links guilt, anger, old feelings with disease later in life. ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhh crap.my life is forever changed. so into this :)
Incredible stuff - plenty to reflect about. Another book - essential book to keep in your library. Here's a couple sentences I highlighted:Life is painful at times, and spiritually, we are meant to face the pains that life present.Spiritual teachings encourage us to grow past and through painful experiences, each of which is a spiritual lesson. Developing intuitive ability will help us learn the lessons inherent in our experiences.
Sigurno ću ju prolistati još nekoliko puta!
Really interesting. Myss does a great job of connecting the 7 chakras with the 7 sacraments of Christianity and the 7 major teachings from the Judaic Tree of Life. Fascinating read for both religious and spiritual scholars (of which I am neither, btw, so it's also great for the layman with a curious mind!)
(I know, the eye roll is inevitable, but hang on just a minute.) She claims to be able to tell what's wrong with people, what diseases they have and what is causing them to be sick, by reading their energy.
She shares stories that illustrate how others have faced or overcome their challenges/diseases by releasing the negative emotions that are causing their disease.Myss' book combined with Anodea Judith comprehensive and detailed EASTERN BODY/WESTERN MIND will get anyone thinking about who they are, why they act/think the way they do, and how they can change to create a more positive and compassionate life.
This book has some definite good ideas for self-introspection and evaluation.
However, I think this book would strike more of a chord for those people who have no religious or spiritual background than for those who already have a spiritual foundation.
The one thing I definitely took from this book, "Accept responsibility for your own personal healing." I agree with the author that medicine can only do so much and nobody else can heal you.
I found some of the tediousness of explaining all the chakras a bit boring and mundane, but overall, I'm still glad I read the book.
This book brought on a deep spiritual awakening for me, which was exactly what I was seeking.
I feel if I would have tried to read it earlier I wouldn't have connected to it in a deep and meaningful way as I have now.
This is a book of self-discovery and information on how to connect to your intuition and spirit through the Divine, Universe, Creator, God. The main point is that we are each responsible for our own healing, thoughts and actions in our life.
If you're looking to help raise your consciousnesses then this book could help.

I was recommended to read his book twice in the past month, so I took that as I sign I needed to pick it up. I'm glad I did. I had many eye opening moments reading through it. My biggest takeaway has been on the impacts of my relationship to power and how I've disregarded my personal power throughout my life. I realize that a lot of my emotional triggers are a result this relationship with power and see now that, in order to heal, I need to step into my personal power.
This book was on the reading list for a 200 hour yoga teacher training course I'm taking. I consider myself open-minded, but this was a bit too "out there" for me.Here's a direct quote: "Peter, I'm a friend of your father's. I'm a medical intuitive... Peter, I've evaluated your energy, and you have AIDS." (page 23)I put it down soon after finishing the first chapter. Maybe I'll try it again another day, but not any time soon.
I have read this book twice and it is always informative and I learn something new. It is a great source of reference to have.
An eye opening door to viewing your health and the emotional-spiritual connection.
This book has changed the way I think of illness and disease.
Provides powerful tools towards self-insight into healing and transforming ones own spiritual crises.
Provides understanding of the nature of spiritual dilemmas and illnesses as awakenings, the impersonal energy of life force that moves through all of us, and other wonderful insights.
Great examples of regular people's spiritual experiences from different walks of life - priest discovering non-religious spiritual healing through prayer, or a businessman with deadly illness seeks isolation, meditation and self-healing literature to heal his inner spirit which empowered his life like never before.This book redefines what spirituality means as a universal force, particularly during the current era of information and conscious unity.
This book is not one I would have picked on my own but I am glad it was part of my mandatory reading for yoga teacher training. I know any of the other fellow YTT-ers, that I spoke to about this read, found it made them grow more introspective of their lives and their health. There is much to consider and digest. Definitely noteworthy 👍. Of course one can really only appreciate such a book if they are prepared to receive its message, at the stage they find themselves in their journey/in life.
4/5
I would have put 5 stars if there were not all that correlatiom with religion. That took awag some of my trusg in her sayings.
That book, and this one, address healing from an emotional or spiritual perspective that might be easier to work with than a tedious collection of scientific studies.
One can learn a lot from reading about the actual experiments or other research, and the method with which one carries out that research.When one is dealing with an illness, even one such as excessive tension and slow healing of an injury, as I had been dealing with, then one may be looking for something to understand quickly and put into practice immediately.
