https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26046.Morrigan_s_Cross
My husband was in Iraq when I started this book, and I told him, "honey, I read this book and I know you'll love it.
The only problem is it says NORA ROBERTS really big on the front and I know you're out there with a bunch of tough soldiers, and you might not want them to know you're reading romance novels." He told me to send it anyways, so I sent the first 2 books (I was still reading the third) and he starts calling me up "Babe, you send the third one yet??" Not only that, but he let other people over there read the series!
A quick look at the back cover held part of the explanation: "A battle is brewing between the forces of good and evil--a war will be fought across the planes of time--as Lilith, the most powerful vampire in the world, gathers her dark minions around her.
We have time travel, we have locales that lend themselves to fantasy (Ireland--both 12th century and modern day--and New York), vampires and wizards, unspeakable evil versus unbelievable good, alternate worlds, a final battle pre-ordained by the gods, and the list goes on and on and on.
Lilith, the world's oldest and most powerful vampire.
And this is what came out:* Hoyt: The medieval sorcerer who time-travels to the 21st century* Morrigan: The Goddess who commissions Hoyt and the others to fight the vampires, but doesn't help much* Cian: Hoyt's brother -- a centuries-old vampire who listens to Nine Inch Nails while flying his private airplane* Lilith: An ancient vampire queen who's got black hair, red lips, and wants to rule the world* Glenna: A red-headed NYC Wiccan witch in a little black dress* Blair: A kick-butt female vampire hunter who can fell three vampires while changing her tire and says almost nothing that's not sarcastic* Moira: A princess from Gael who must save her people and her land from evil* Larkin: A handsome shape-changer who might have been interesting in another novelWith a cast like that, it sounds like there would be, at least, plenty of action...
I thought this story was exceptionally well written. There was a lot of humor with both the character's dialogue and expressions. The book was similar to a roller coaster ride for me with extreme ups and downs. There was love, deep sadness, humor, time-travel, bloody fighting with vampires, magic, shape-shifting, suspense and few neat surprises. I like that. I thoroughly enjoyed this book!The rest of the trilogy was set up in this book and I can't wait to read them.
3.5 StarsThey are the sorcerer, the witch, the warrior, the scholar, the one of many forms and the one you've lost.In this first book of the Circle Trilogy, we meet the six who have been chosen to lead the war against Lilith, the queen of vampyres, and her army.
Hoyt, the sorcerer and Glenna, the witch, find love in all of the chaos of training and fighting.This was a great start to this trilogy.
I am hoping the last two books will make up for it, but as with all of Nora's books she has a way of sucking you into the story.
My favorite lady was Blair, she and Larkin made a very close second in the couples/romance category for me, the prince charming-esque shape shifter and the bad ass butt kicking vampire hunter chick.
Really liked Hoyt and Glenna but they weren't as well drawn and the romance there seemed pushed aside a little so that all of the characters could be introduced, and the stage for the final battle could be set.
She is one of the darkest, evilest, most demented villains I have ever read, and I loved her character.
This one was a good read.Unfortunately I had read The Guardians Trilogy before this book, and that series published 15 years after this series.I couldn’t help thinking, Ms. Roberts found something lacking with this series, reworked and make it much better with the new series.So, this one the original one and if you didn’t read The Guardians yet, it will a good read but if you already read The Guardians series, don’t bother to read this series.Still, a fun read and three stars for the originality!
They also save Moira and Larkin, royalty from Chiarrai.Together, they form a circle that stands together against the most evil Vampire of all time.
Lilith is bent on world domination and will stop at nothing until Morrigan’s Circle is all dead…If this sounds a bit far fetched, that’s because it is.
But rest assured, once the story gets going you’re going to be hooked.Morrigan’s Cross has all the trademarks of a Nora Roberts novel that you’ve come to expect: Great characters, snappy dialogue, wonderful sub plots and well written sex scenes hot enough to make the pages damp.
And, for the Circle Trilogy, its starting point is Morrigan’s Cross.
Read for the URR 2017 New Year's Reading Challenge prompt 'Fantasy Romance'.17/1 - I think I feel the same about this as I did the first time I read it, years ago before I found GR or thought of writing reviews of the books I read, somewhere around 3.5 stars.Glenna and Hoyt were perfectly fine characters, although possibly the least interesting of the three pairs.
With the time travel and the Tuatha De Danann both playing a major part in the plot, but me not connecting with the romance I just didn't like this as much as Beyond the Highland Mist.I will continue with the series as I want to see how it ends and the sequels are on my 'reread to review' shelf.
I found the vampires in this novel to be about as scary as a villain from an episode of Xena: Warrior Princess or maybe even Beastmaster.
Moreover, having Hoyt, the sorcerer, travel through time to the current day to save the world brought back childhood memories of my love for the He-Man movie.
Six characters joining forces to save the world by defeating the evil vampiress.
If the characters had better depth, and didn't seem so contrived, then I may have felt something for the book other than indifference.
I can't say I would give her non-fantasy books a try after this one.
There was a time where I went through fantasy books like nothing.
I've read the same story hundreds of times.
So what about Nora Roberts take on that story?
I liked it.Morrigan's Cross is the first book of the Circle Trilogy.
The ring must be destroyed.
Oh I know, six individuals must band together and defeat the vampire queen who took the life from one of them and destroyed another before she and her minions bring about armageddon.
Same stock fantasy but with enough of a PNR bent to keep it new.I'll definitely be reading the other two books in the series.
Lido há uns anos atrás.
But before this happened, Morrigan first called upon Hoyt Mac Cionaoith – the sorcerer of the 14th century to gather up the circle and must time-travel to the present to persuade his twin brother into joining…But how can this be possible, when the sorcerer’s brother was just like the creature that they are trying to defeat – a Vampire??I love this book the instant I read about Hoyt strongly facing up against his enemy and sworn to protect his family and bring justice back to his “undead” brother..Basically, the story started in Ireland over 900 years with the goddess Morrigan calling on a circle of six to stand against an immortal enemy.
Mitologia, esoterismo e uma boa dose de coragem e fé, para não falar no amor, são os ingredientes chave nesta viagem pela Irlanda, na luta do bem contra o mal.Os humanos estão em perigo e nem os deuses ficam indiferentes.
Também a forma como a autora usou o amor entre Hoyt e Glenna para criar uma arma poderosíssima contra a escuridão, mostra-nos que apesar de muitas vezes o amor poder ser uma fraqueza, também pode ser a salvação.Sem dúvida uma obra muito romântica com uma escrita bastante leve e simples.
It's more of a story about a group of six beings than a romance.
Basic gist of the firzt book is that there is going to be a war between a newly forming circle of six and a Vampire army.
The group strugglesa to prepare.
There is a sorceror, a witch, a scholar, a shapeshifter, a warrior, and a vampire (good guy fighting with the six against the rest of the vampires).
They have some battles but the big fight is sti.l on the way.
I liked it even though I thought it might get a little cheezy like some of the other vampire books out there.
En los libros de Nora, cada grupo de personajes o ambientes tienen líneas similares pero también diferencias y su sello propio.Aquí pasa lo mismo, pero me ha sorprendido más de lo habitual. Nora usa otro registro diferente (mucho más mágico) al que estoy acostumbrado. En resumen, está siendo una de las mejores sagas que he leído de ella. Épica, cargada de magia, grandes personajes y una gran villana.
Terug een machtig verhaal Verteld zoals men vroeger verhalen vertelde ....over heksen, tovenaars, princessen en vampieren .....
This book is filled with half-and-half emotions for me. The Writing The writing is smooth and easy. You don't have anything to really hinge on, and nothing to catch you up. But at the same time, the author has a bad habit of giving away how much she bullshits the storyline and details of interest. Her knowledge about medieval anything is more than flawed. It's blunt and clumsy--making the first couple of chapters in the book a sore trial as you bumble through since she does such a poor job of it
I'd say she should stick to it if she knows what's best for her.The only downfall to the smoother writing once we get into present-day concerns is that we realize how brainless the reading itself is.
Begging their host, "Can we live in your house?" "Do you think it's bad that I want a wedding dress when we're supposed to be fighting a war?" "Man we don't have a lot of time to prepare for this epic battle, huh?
But know this: you like the main characters and my stock in you as a level-headed, clear-minded person drops into wrinkle-nosed disgust.
Ok so I have to admit to being pleasantly What I thought was going to end up being a boring audio book turned out to be an enlightening twist on magic that combined vampires, gods and goddesses, shapeshifters and a princess (sounds like the beginning of a bad joke) with an old world charm! I mean what more could a supernatural junkie like myself ask for? Ok!! Well there is that! Where was I? Oh yeah...Even though the romance I felt was rushed between Glenna (witch) and Hoyt(sorcerer who has time
She is basically a sarcastic kick ass warrior chick slash demon slayer, which is a trait I love in my women :PThe setting begins and ends with a older gentleman telling the "story" to a few kids...I am already wondering if this man could be one of the existing characters from the "story" but I'll have to wait:)A few reasons why I didn't give this book a 5 star rating:1- Even though I don't normally read Nora Roberts and she's known for her romance novels, she can't write sex scenes worth a shit and no where near like that of Yasmine or JR Ward!2-No one!!!
I've always avoided Nora Roberts books over the years, not because I have anything against her, but because I always pictured her as being more of a brand name than a real person.
When you read Mary Balogh or Lisa Kleypas you feel like you're meeting a real person, and hearing how they feel about life and love and romance.
And together they go on a quest to save the world from the evil demon queen, gathering an army as they go!My favorite characters in this book were Glenna, the red-haired modern witch, and Hoyt, the mild-mannered wizard who falls madly in love with her.
This is my first time reading Nora Roberts and I have to say I love her writing.
Bit smutty sometimes but I love it nonetheless.
Cian may be bossy with that whole I-don't-want-you-around-so-I'm-just-doing-this-to-get-rid-of-you-again sort of attitude but I love him!
I love that.
Right behind Cian of course.
Moira's back story gives her a strong reason to hate Cian.
If Cian didn't have a bigger reason for killing Lilith, I think Blair would be the one to get her!
All in all I loved this book.
Can't wait to read the others.
I really cant say enough about Morrigans Cross or the whole circle trilogy .
Morrigans Cross starts out in 1128 and continues through to present day with the help of the time traveling circle .
So much goes on in these books I cant go into to much detail but if you enjoy anything to do with either magic, supernatural and paranormal you will love this Trilogy.
I just finished all three books and wow, I'm still dreaming about it!Of course, Nora Roberts is known for her romance novels so with three men and three woman and three books, I hope you can see where this is going.
However, Mom said it was good so I kept going.
A third of the way in, I was hooked.This series is nothing like Twilight, the vampires are normal, dark seeking, kill em with a wooden stake kind of creatures.
Still, if you liked twilight I'm pretty sure you'll love this series too.1.

As a big fan of Nora Roberts, this was a great start to a trilogy and can't wait to see what is going to happen next in this battle to save humanity. There's also the battle between twin brothers and the evil that has separated them. So much to get through and I can't wait what these characters both ladies and gentlemen that have a battle on their hands. Will Hoyt's powers from the goddess be able to defeat Lilith, with the help of the others; his vampire twin, the witch, warrior, and others have a chance at vengeance.
This was an enjoyable read! The beginning was a little rocky, but as each member of the circle made their way into the story, I liked the book more and more. They were easy to connect with. I'm excited to find out where the story continues in the second book!
first read 10-12-10re-read 12-14-15
24 October 2015: $1.99 on Kindle
They mustn't train to be survivors, they must do so to be winners, and that sucks for all of them.So, wanna know what happens when you put a 12th century Sorcerer with serious leadership issues and blind honor, a modern-day Witch who acts like a new-to-all-this mother, a thousand-or-so-years old Vampire with a sharp tongue and rude manners, a badass Demon Hunter who leans towards extreme violence most of the time, a flirty Shape-shifter that acts like a Golden Boy from another world, and his cousin who is one step of being said world's Queen and is a Scholar with a mind that certainly surpasses her own small height in the same house, and have them live together?
Irrational characters were a problem throughout this book.
Why does the main villain want to destroy humanity which is her only food source?
Why dont the vampires use guns or attack the heroes in force or fire bomb their home or run a semi truck through the front door packed with explosives?
The book states early on that vampires are complex and different like humans.
Then forgets.Sigh, then there is the character King.
I almost wanted to scream "The writer is putting a star trek red shirt on you, run brother!
