https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/815309.On_Chesil_Beach
he’s obsessed with that one moment and all the various possibilites which extend outward into time and space --- whether it be a shared glance while hanging from the dangling ropes of a quickly ascending hot air balloon or the reaction to a disastrous night of naïve lovemaking or being attacked by two canine rapists (seriously) or, as in my case, a magical but unrealistic night spent knocking around lower east side bars… and one can’t help but wonder, in reading his books, if one were put in the place of one of mcewan’s protagonists, how he/she would react… as per my 'imaginary' scenerio: would one go for it?
For the first 50 pages or so I was convinced that McEwan was just selling a freak show to us (again) – that he’s a popular author because people like reading about sex and other people’s weirdo sex problems.
Through a number of seamless flashbacks, the history of the couple unfolded before me – so slowly and steadily and adeptly that I am now convinced that Ian McEwan is a genius.
Many times when authors reveal information it seems cheap or as if they were withholding it from you in order to keep you reading – dime mystery book stuff.
Edward and Florence have gone to a lovely seaside hotel on their wedding night, totally unprepared for the actual mechanics of sex.
But this is a novel about communication and trust more than about the uptight mores of a bygone time.
Ian McEwan - from his websiteWe are shown the history of their relationship via flashback.
Florence came from a home bereft of physical contact.
(The nanny was let go) But the crime here is that Edward and Florence are unable to talk with each other about their problem.
And maybe in that is a message about disparate times.
At times, Florence feels more like the parent or child of Edward, rather than his girlfriend or wife.Ebb and FlowThere is plenty of see-sawing in the book: the ebb and flow of the sea on the stones of Chesil Beach; of desire; of who to blame for what goes wrong (both in the minds of the characters and the readers); and Florence’s feelings about her father, and whether or not she thinks there is something wrong with Edward or herself.NowadaysThe story, and especially the ending, would be implausible nowadays, but fits the characters and the period.
That didn't feel necessary, and in particular, the fact that in the film, Florence went on to (view spoiler)[have three children, starting very soon after the annulment of her marriage to Edward, totally changes the causes and consequences of what went wrong on their wedding night (hide spoiler)].
We know the story in advance from the book jacket: a disastrous wedding night.
While in school in London he lived in a room in the house of a strict aunt.
She lived in a women’s rooming house with a dorm mother keeping watch and no men allowed.We learn about their families and upbringing; how they met and how they dated.
It was a good story and it kept my attention, but I found the book a bit dragged out.
Having read my first McEwan, I think I can begin to understand why so many good friends feel conflicted about him, even though almost all my friends have recorded positive reviews for this particular novel - the reason I chose this one over others.On Chesil Beach is hilariously funny, boldly intimate, and admirably candid when it describes the internal turmoil of its characters and their struggles to interpret their own truths, but taken whole I think the novel is just so so: the story, the basic premise that holds it, is very contrived and a whole lot of fillers in the shape of flashbacks have been thrown in to make it big enough to be a novel.1962.
He only got married because he's horny as hell and lives in middle-class 1962 England, where getting married is the only chance you're going to have to get laid, and as a result has now become a cuckold employee of his upper-class father-in-law; she despises the very idea of sex altogether, but is too much of a coward to tell her husband, instead spending months psyching herself up into performing her upcoming "wifely duties." The wedding night arrives.
The flashbacks are handled much more subtly in the book than they are in the movie.But the film (McEwan wrote the screenplay) captures the same tone of light comedy and tragedy.
which is an intriguing metaphor for the central decision in the book.The biggest difference in the movie, apart from (view spoiler)[the abuse being much clearer (hide spoiler)], is the ending.
I think we want to see certain things play out in a movie that we don't necessarily need in a book.
You’ll want to too, after reading this exquisite, note-perfect book.
I have a First Edition of this small hardcopy book. I read it in 2007. There are other passionate 5 star reviews.. but I was incredibly disappointed. I felt it could have been a short story -I was angry that I paid full price for it. However ..I may re- read this book soon ( it only takes a few hours) with an open mind to see if my thoughts have changed. I’m guessing people today didn’t pay $30 for this as I had. Funny how the price bothered me so much.. and it did at the time.
Every page of this wonderfully-crafted novel gave me the uncanny feeling of living within the skins of the two main characters, Edward and Florence, just married as the book opens.
The one exception is her calling as a violinist; here as in Saturday, McEwan is extraordinary in his use of music; the sections describing Florence's quartet playing are right up there with Vikram Seth's An Equal Music, my touchstone for sensitive writing about musicians.
At the time, I felt it was too brief to settle all the emotions stirred up by the preceding pages, but now as I write, several hours after closing the book, I begin to see its rightness and appreciate its consolation.======I saw the movie last night.
A story lives transformed by a gesture not made or a word not spoken. This little novel is so deceptive. It's under 200 pages, and the story seems simple: the 1962 wedding night of Edward and Florence, two young, virginal people in love. Edward is ready to burst with the desire to consummate their marriage; Florence is dreading it.But it isn't so simple. The night is a disaster, and wrought with the secret scars and fatal flaws the two people carry around. The writing is so revealing of the com
A story lives transformed by a gesture not made or a word not spoken.
It's under 200 pages, and the story seems simple: the 1962 wedding night of Edward and Florence, two young, virginal people in love.
Edward is ready to burst with the desire to consummate their marriage; Florence is dreading it.But it isn't so simple.
The night is a disaster, and wrought with the secret scars and fatal flaws the two people carry around.
Inconceivably, it is easier to live a whole entire life unfulfilled rather than utter one's truth or javelin over the barrier of pride.
A whole life.
I've been in a relationship with Ian McEwan for less than a month now, and, let me tell you.
he's driving me CRAZY!I wonder things about him, like.
How does he take two virgins on their wedding night in 1962, put them in one hotel room and create a captivating novel from that one scene?
Mr. McEwan.
You've shouldered your way into the crowded room of my favorite authors, and I don't think I'm kicking you out anytime soon.
This simple story is able to say so much about human nature: how it is mandatory to talk to each other honestly about one's fears and feelings, because remaining silent could almost never lead into a happy future.Over the course of 200 pages, Ian McEwan spends one fateful evening with his two main characters and their wedding night, yet the only time this book feels boring is when pages and pages of background information are inserted, something which would not have been necessary, considering the precision the characters have already been developed with.
They barely knew each other, and never could because of the blanket of companionable near-silence that smothered their differences and blinded them as much as it bound them.McEwan offsets the hopeless inability of the characters to communicate with each other with the splendid flow of his writing.
For if the words that ought to have been said in the story falter, and those that should have been buried in silence explode, the reader is left with McEwan’s language.
This novel is set with crafted, contrasting, balanced, nuanced, full-bodied, sweet and sharp words that evoke the completeness of chamber music.
For music is always in McEwan’s writing.There was however a dissonance.
Having only previously read Atonement & Saturday, I was both incredibly reluctant and eager to know what the “literary device” used in On Chesil Beach was; a.k.a., why it almost won the Booker Prize.
That heinous novel, about a pompous neurosurgeon who believes he has literary entitlement just because he can “predict events” in his neobourgeois life, simply by knowing how the human body works, and dissecting daily minutiae into scientific (therefore, deeply unpoetic) reasoning, playing “God”--I found it incredibly irritating.
There are writers, like Ken Follett, who seem to need to insert sex writing into a novel every 160 - 200 pages just to help drive the novel's narrative forward.
Now, I'm not saying there isn't good sex writing out there, I have actually come across some.
I realize like food, it is a part of life and thus needs to be represented and shadowed in art and literature.So, with all that baggage and preamble, it was still with quite a bit of trepidation that I slid into Ian McEwan's tight little novella.
È strano questo libro: statico, ma soprattutto pensato. Pensano troppo i due protagonisti. Pensano ma non parlano, o parlano del tempo. Ma non parlano del tempo che passa tra loro, dei loro sogni e del loro amore, dei loro desideri e delle loro paure; e così il tempo passa, li segna e li attraversa. E li divide, lasciando nel lettore l'amaro in bocca e un senso d'impotenza, e la certezza che forse sarebbe bastato solo un gesto per non perdere tutto.L'aver visto il film, oggi pomeriggio, mi ha fatto desiderare di rileggerlo. Ma non è tempo di riletture, questo.
He deftly examines the inner lives (and turmoil) of two young virgins in the early 1960's—this was before the freedom of sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll had gripped England and allowed for a more equitable and open conversation around physical intimacy.
McEwan creates such vivid characters in such a short amount of time—and if you've got 4.5 hours to spare I'd highly recommend listening to the audiobook narrated by the author himself.
This was a nice, short novel about two people consummating their marriage. They are both young and unexperienced and the book follows their short love story up and past the point of marriage.I enjoyed the book. It was simple and short with an entertaining storyline behind it. I listened to this book on audio cd and loved the interview with the author. It really explained the story well.
This is a short, simple story about a newly married couple called Florence and Edward and how "  You can ruin everything by not speaking up"  I listened to this book which was narrated by Ian McEwan and what a wonderful experience that was.
On the surface the story may seem quite straight forward and yet there is so much depth to the characters and situations than first appears.
I love how vivid he can create characters in such a short novel .
Florence and Edward are just wonderfully developed and I found myself sympathising with both of them and the tragic situation they find themselves in.
I watched the movie adaptation before I began reading the book.
Of course, I was curious to compare how well the book was translated to the screen and what was left out of the book.I can't believe I'm saying this, but the movie was better than the book, as it had a bit more "meat".
You'd think that because I had the movie visuals in my head, the book would have come to life even more.
It was different, I can't remember ever reading a book where the woman was so disgusted and apprehensive about anything related to sex.
I must say, if this short novel is any indication, McEwan is a master of tightening the circles, bit by bit, to mounting tension and then to the Moment, the place and time when opposing forces collide, when choices must be made, and courses must be altered or not.He delicately weaves in the backgrounds of newlyweds Florence, a talented classical string musician, and Edward, a history student without any clear direction for his future but seems earnest nonetheless, as they spend the afternoon and evening of their wedding in a hotel at Chesil Beach on the Dorset seashore.
By their backgrounds and internal dialogues on the day of, the reader can see the baggage and expectations each carries: Edward, with his self-centered male ego concerning sex, and Florence, a fear of sex (possibly arising from being sexually abuse as she reached puberty).
I hadn't intended on reading any Ian McEwan in the near future, and this wasn't even atop my McEwan "to-read" list.
As with *Atonement*, the only other of his I've read, McEwan here displays the most amazing ability to create such honest and well-developed characters, that it is, for me, seemingly impossible not to attach yourself at least somewhat to the “their stories”.While I think that *Atonement* is a more developed work—complex and historical, at once youthfully passionate and bitterly resigned—and, thus literarily, impressed me more, *On Chesil Beach* is, for me, much more affecting.
Ο συγγραφέας λοιπόν καταπιάνεται να μας παρουσιάσει το πλαίσιο μέσα στο οποίο αυτοί οι δύο άνθρωποι και ξεχωριστοί χαρακτήρες χάθηκαν στην πορεία, να σκιαγραφήσει το σεξουαλικό πρόβλημα που αντιμετωπίζουν, το χρονικό πλαίσιο γύρω από το οποίο εξελίσσεται η ιστορία όπου μάλλον δεν έχει φτάσει ακόμα η περίφημη σεξουαλική απελευθέρωση.
Επίσης κάτι άλλο που δεν είμαι απόλυτα σίγουρη αν μου άρεσε είναι ότι κατά την άποψη μου ο συγγραφέας παίρνει ξεκάθαρα το μέρος του άνδρα ήρωα παρουσιάζοντας τη γυναίκα ηρωίδα εντελώς ψυχρή και αντιπαθητική πράγμα το οποίο δε θα με ενοχλούσε διόλου αν εξηγούνταν στο χαρτί λίγο περισσότερο από την εύκολη επιλογή να γίνει ο εύκολος διαχωρισμός θύτη και θύματος.
Εξάλλου, κάτι μοναδικό στο έργο του συγγραφέα (έχω ξαναδιαβάσει βιβλίο του) είναι πως γράφει σε απλή γλώσσα και ο λόγος του ρέει πολύ εύκολα.
Μέσα από τις σκέψεις και των δυο μαθαίνουμε για το background του καθένα, για τον τρόπο που γνωρίστηκαν, ερωτεύτηκαν, παντρεύτηκαν, καθώς και τα διαφορετικά άγχη που αντιμετωπίζουν τη σημερινή μέρα (για την ολοκλήρωση του γάμου, να το πω σεμνά).
Τα πάντα δένουν στο τέλος, αποκτούν νόημα και δείχνουν πώς τα πράγματα που ειπώθηκαν, καθώς και αυτά που δεν ειπώθηκαν, οδηγούν τη ζωή ενός ανθρώπου σε εντελώς διαφορετικά μονοπάτια.
I don't know who this story thinks it is is, but it can shove off. It has put me in a bad damn mood and all I wanna do is fight. People are assholes. You know... I just...Ugh...!!!!!
Inghilterra , siamo in un contesto storico in cui sul sesso gravano pesanti pregiudizi e inconsapevolmente siamo ad un passo dall’esplosione della libertà sessuale che arriverà con la fine degli anni sessanta.La prima notte di nozze di una coppia di ventenni inglesi degli anni Sessanta diventa una sorta di commedia drammatica , legata soprattutto al passato, rafforzata da gustosi inevitabili equivoci.Lui, Edward, giovane con ambizioni letterarie, ha poca esperienza con le donne in generale e con la neosposa di cui è innamorato.
Se lui avesse detto...se lei avesse fatto...ma non sempre accade ciò che vorremmo: “ecco come il corso di tutta una vita può dipendere ...
“This is how the entire course of a life can be changed: by doing nothing.”   If I had to pick one quote to sum up the theme of this multifaceted story, it would be this one. Both of these characters have a lot of growing (and healing) to do and neither one is ready for marriage, and certainly not ready for consummation of any sort. This exquisitely-written story is lovely, sad, and very real all at once. We are watching two people painfully walk on eggshells around each other. They are inexpe
On Chesil Beach is literary in nature and has deeper underlying issues that readers will likely only pick up on after reading an interview with the author himself (at least that was how it was with me).
Note: Be sure to read the interview with the author that is attached to this novel.
In my opinion, it is crucial in order to gain the full reading experience and character perspective intended by the author.
In the audio, it is located after the book ends but it completely changed the way I viewed the characters.
Sublime, sexy, funny, technically and musically superb, wise, and heartbreaking. I will read anything Ian McEwan writes.
''Έτσι μπορεί να αλλάξει η πορεία μιας ολόκληρης ζωής - μένοντας αδρανής.''
the author also ruins the scene setting by intruding from his desk and computer to says things like " this was not a good moment in English cuisine " , the poor things no ciabbata , so unsophisticated !Iiving in Oxford i did like the local references but if you lived in Croydon i should not think this meant much .
I've been waffling on what I think about this book. It is the story of a wedding night, awkward sex, unfilled expectations, misunderstandings that aren't worked out. Unfortunately I could never read it through the characters' eyes, I was always too aware of the author somehow, his gaze on these people, a sneaking feeling that his emphasis was on the wrong things.And then there is a hint of something in Florence's past that is unresolved, even for the reader. I had looked forward to this one a while and was left unsatisfied.
Kod njega nema lažnog morala, on ogoljuje ljudsko telo i ističe sve njegove nedostatke, ali ne zato da bi ga izvrgao ruglu, već zato što je ono upravo takvo - nesavršeno i puno mana, baš kao što je i ljudska duša mračna i tajnovita."Čezil Bič" se može posmatrati i kao studija o komunikaciji i poverenju među životnim partnerima, otvorenosti i poštovanju tuđih osećanja, spremnosti da se problemi reše i prevaziđu ili da se jednostavno dignu ruke od svega.
Rating: 3 starsPlot: 2.5Characters: 3Writing style: 3"On Chesil Beach" by Ian McEwan is a story set in 1962.
It could've been a short story instead of novella, some parts felt contrived and the ending was unnecessary.[LTU]Įvertinimas: 3 žvaigždutėsSiužetas: 2.5Veikėjai: 3Rašymo stilius: 3Ian McEwan "Česilo pakrantėje" - tai istorija apie jauną ir nepatyrusią, ką tik susituokusią porą.
1962 metais jie atvyksta į pajūrio viešbutį, praleisti pirmosios nakties.Patiko kai kurie istorijos aspektai (kaip subtiliai skaitytojui atskleidžiamos detalės, puikiai perteikta laikotarpio atmosfera), bet apskritai kūrinys vidutiniškas.
Būtų užtekę trumpo apsakymo - daug vietų pasirodė dirbtinės, parašytos, kad būtų daugiau puslapių, o pabaiga apskritai nereikalinga.
So far both McEwan books I've read have dealt with sex and class, but also with this project of looking back at the past and trying to make sense of it, and of the ways we choose to do or not do certain things, at how we make decisions and conduct relationships with one another, and in this fumbling, unguided way wind up doing what it is that makes our lives.
I bet if I'd read him a another point in my life I wouldn't be responding so enthusiastically, but right now his stuff is making a lot of sense to me.I also love that he wrote a short, careful book.
Probably my favorite McEwan book; I liked that it was so tightly constructed and the writing was great, as usual. I think he got the atmosphere of the period just right but I could have done without the present day bit at the end. Finally, I felt that he set the reader up for some act of violence which he then failed to deliver, leaving me a bit confused.
I bought it on Heathrow, eyes full of tears because I was departing from my boyfriend in Dublin via London.
It always took me a while to get a hold of myself, because London has always been no-man's land.
Up to now, London has taken place as the place where my bipolar relationship reached its highs and lows.
Confusing life-calling-reality obligations with my long-distance-relationship angst.
It was really a long exhausting process.
And luckily, then I still wasn’t prepared for this book.
I would have found myself in novella’s last 20 pages and I would have murdered this stunningly doomed book.
It was a story set in the 1960's, a time when young people meeting, and marrying in the way the main characters did, would be uncommon now.
The reader senses Edward and Florence are not not well suited to be married.
Reading other friends' reviews on GR, they had similar reactions to the end of this novel.
I loved the way that McEwan reveals the lives that Edward and Florence go on to live.
He is a master at revealing characters' depths while maintaining an economy of words.
Readers may reflect on their own lives as they finish this novel.
Il corso di tutta una vita può dipendere dal non fare qualcosaPer orgoglio,immaturità ,intransigenza
The last few pages shattered me. I'd like to read them again, but don't think I can, or should.
Not for the first time I wonder at the professional world of book reviewing, this receiving the highest of accolades from the English press.
I wonder if it was a short story that got padded into 165 pages in order to sell on its own, a mish-mash as it is of story line and facts about English society at the time.
He wants to have sex, she doesn’t in a way that would be laughably stereotypical but for the fact that I don’t think I’ve ever read a book that takes itself so seriously, is so entirely bereft of humour.
So Edward is mortified and desperate to find fault; Florence is appalled and disgusted, her suppressed fears have come true, and she can’t stay in the room with him any longer.
And the point of the novel is, as Edward discovers (now, some forty years later), when he at last can admit that Florence was the one he had loved most in his life, that “this is how the entire course of a life can be changed—by doing nothing.” But this of course is only Edward’s voice, and I wonder if that is actually the message: after all Edward didn’t do “nothing” ...
Back in about 1988 a friend lent me a novel she had just finished reading.
However, I was devastated by the premise of the novel: the effect on a father of the abduction of his three year old child - so devastated that I decided not to read any more of McEwan's work for fear of being devastated all over again.
So now it's 2012 and the book has been sitting on the shelf for four years, along with a number of other books I've been given or bought and haven't read.
OK, seriously, Ian McEwan, you wrote Saturday.
You wrote f*ing Saturday!
With its introspection and good and evil and everyday life and drama and mundane-ness and life and death and brain surgery and racquetball all wrapped up together in one ponderous experience of a book.So, Ian McEwan, what the hell is this crap???It could have been good -- it was a promising premise.
I realize that he writes books where most of the action is in the minds of the characters...
This was a bit of real life Goodreads-style book-detective work.
Not that much work really, but hey, kind of interesting to us weirdos.
I read this hot off the press and reviewed it saying thus : Don't know if any other pop music geek already pointed this out - probably did - but it contains a major historical gaffe which amused and annoyed me - in 1962 the guy is playing his classical-music-loving fiancee Beatles and Stones records which wouldn't be released for a whole year.
I bet IM is sick and tired of being told about that howler already.
Didn't know they did that!
