https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/462389.Year_of_the_Unicorn
Here it was amplified: the marriage on which the book is focused is one of thirteen that are the result of a bargain made years ago between the folk of High Hallack and the Were Riders of Arvon.
The time has come: the Riders contributed to victory, and with now thirteen nobly born girls between 18 and 20 with no physical defects are to be delivered at the turn of the Year of the Unicorn.
Instead of the shockingly masculine, astonishingly beautiful perfect-except-for-being-attractively-damaged barbarian-with-a-heart-of-gold-and-the-honor-of-a-storybook-knight, Herrel is a young (or young-seeming) man with a good many flaws both real and perceived who is not beautiful ("He was neither handsome nor unhandsome by human standard, merely very different"), though he is honorable.
Year of the Unicorn is a typical Norton set up: An outsider is forced to make a journey where she discovers hidden abilities, overcomes threats to life and personal integrity, and ends up with the promise of a new life.Unicorn takes us from the Witch World’s original setting in Estcarp/Escore across the seas to High Hallack, inhabited by a fair-haired race of humans who deeply mistrust witchcraft and studiously avoid the sites of magic scattered across their dales.
It’s the story of Gillan, a girl with no family and an unknown heritage who has grown up in an abbey in High Hallack, far from the places we visited with Simon and Jaelithe in the first two Witch World novels.
This leads her on a terrifying adventure in which she discovers her power and, possibly, love.Year of the Unicorn has a completely different feel from the previous Witch World novels.
The first half of Year of the Unicorn flies by while we learn about High Hallack and get to know Gillan as she makes sneaky plans and moves quickly to implement them.
Gillan contrives with the help of another woman - and the tacit connivance of the abbess - to change places with a girl who is hysterical at the thought of being married off to one of these odd men.Their reputation proves to be justified when the allocation of brides - there are more Riders than 13 - is settled by ensorcelled cloaks.
Gillan instinctively avoids a physical relationship although she has never been told she is from Estcarp and that the witch women are reputed to lose their powers with their virginity (although the earlier stories would suggest this is at least in part psychological considering that Jaelle's returned after her marriage).
I was reminded of this book by a post on Smart Bitches/Trashy Books. A reader posted a guest squee and I immediately headed to Amazon to grab it--to discover that it was available for a free read on Kindle Unlimited. I own an original copy of this book. I loved it the first time I read it, and I love it now. Andre Norton was my gateway to SciFi (The Beastmaster, The Sioux Spaceman) and fantasy (The Witch World). I own all of Ms. Norton's original Witch World books and a few of the later books,
A reader posted a guest squee and I immediately headed to Amazon to grab it--to discover that it was available for a free read on Kindle Unlimited.
Andre Norton was my gateway to SciFi (The Beastmaster, The Sioux Spaceman) and fantasy (The Witch World).
I own all of Ms. Norton's original Witch World books and a few of the later books, co-written with others.
I now want to do a massive Witch World reread but will do so digitally because those 50 year old books are fragile now.
You don't have to have a point of reference in the Witch World to enjoy this book.
My favorite Andre Norton book so far. I think I read it my senior year in college and I definitely loved it. Great High Fantasy with a female character I actually liked (most of the time female protagonists are either too silly or too brilliant in my opinion, but she is likable-y normal in a fantasy way.)
With Andre Norton it is hard to decide which of her books is my favorite. This happens to be in the top two, with The Mirror of Destiny a close second.I'm a sucker for a fantasy, and I'm a sucker for a true, if only mild, romance (clean). Put the two together and you have Year of the Unicorn.
It grates to the extent that I've seriously toyed with the idea of rewriting the book in normal English, so good is the actual story.
Why couldn't she simply have written Once again I forced myself to try and see what the Riders expected me to see?There's also not a shred of humour anywhere in the story, but that's standard for Andre Norton, so I'm not going to hold that against this particular book.The story itself is summarised expertly in other reviews so I won't go into it here.
Oh, dear. This series is going downhill. Gillan's journey meanders so badly it's a miracle that the book ever ended.Fortunately I've been reading them in story-internal chronology, rather than publication order, so I know that it's not just a matter of getting worse as time goes on - there are later-published books I enjoyed more.
I loved this book dearly and read it in two sittings--if I remember correctly! Magical and captivating!
Didn't like this book much at all. An endless quest, unclear motivations, questions about the land the Were Riders were from unanswered. I thought it was boring and predictable.
My favorite in the Witch World series. Rich and full of memorable detail. Romantic underdogs, beautiful.
While this story is set in Witch World, it doesn't really have any direct ties to the two books published before it.
Even the part where Gillan is split into two and looses her shadow feels like it was handled much better in the first Earthsea novel.
Thus I'm left feeling that the High Hallack saga is one I have little to no interest in, and while the next Estcarp book sounds like it may also be somewhat silly, I'd rather have had that round out the first omnibus.
Bought on sale.=====================Year Of the Unicorn returns to Andre Norton’s Witch World with a tale of adventure and magic.
The orphan Gillan grew up in an abbey in High Hallack, always knowing she was different and never feeling at home.
When the lords of High Hallack pledge twelve brides to the Were Riders in exchange for their protection, Gillan is faced with an opportunity few would consider: to take the place of one of the twelve chosen women and go off to parts unknown to marry one of these strange wild men.
But Gillan leaps at the chance to leave the only home she has ever known in the hopes of finding something she was meant to do.
I started reading her in high school and never stopped.
Today my favorites are stories of High Hallack.
Gillan opts for adventure over security and nearly loses her life when she trades places with a young women, one of twelve plus one promised to men who came to the aid of her country in time of war.
Gillan sees the distress of the young women, and offers to take her place.
She finds more than she bargained for in the man she she is matched with.If I had one complaint, it would be that the book finished too soon.
Andre Norton tried turning in another direction for stories to tell.
Now she travels to another continent on Witch World.
New charcters, new peris and only a passing connection to Estcarp.
This is the High Hallack stories.
Think the Yorkshire/Derbyshire Dales and you will get the environment.
Have to say I find the High Hallack stories not as satisfying as the Estcarp/Escore stories.It also laid the foundation for the bane of all series, endless sequels/prequels, either with the author churning it out needlessly, or -especially - shared universe/collaborations.
It happened with McCaffrey's Dragon books, and it happens here.
Not what I had expected.I was disappointed.I was hoping that it was the same series i read in 1980ish. That to me was the true witch world series. Some may argue that point but this is mine. Good readings my fellow readers!!
I think if I’d read this earlier on in my reading life, I’d have enjoyed it more. Not that it was derivative, but more that it’s old enough that we’ve seen many similar things.In addition, the old language threw me off a bit, especially with this particular audio book reader. I dunno... she just sounded a bit like some of those Shakespeare actors who aren’t very good.The main character was pleasantly strong, I suppose, and the romance was decent enough.
Always spellbindingFirst book by Andre Norton, I ever read, but not my last. Been waiting for kindle versions for awhile. Hopefully, I will be able to finally have the complete works. Looking forward to reading all of them again and again.
Unlike many Estcarpian people in High Hallack, Gillan HERSELF had been on a ship (probably as a captive), though she has no memory of how it came about.Gillan finds her life at Norstead, a refuge for many in the Dales, dull and unrewarding.
But because she's untrained, she's even more at risk, because they can use her own potentials against her.To assist her, Gillan has only Herrel (styled 'the wronghanded', but not because of handedness--it's simply that he's clumsy, and that his spells go awry--note that it's explained later that this is because he's a halfling...which raises a question: what impact will this have on the children of the Dales Brides?

That was tedious. It is told first person and the bulk of the story is the heroine trying to puzzle out illusions and traveling through danger alone. She only rarely interacts with other people, and doesn't really think about other people, so other characters are largely absent and ciphers when they do appear. The story is a good one, I just had a hard time getting into it.
I had forgotten the last three-forths of the book, but that's all dreamy fairy tale stuff, too.I can pinpoint the exact point my memory left off, and it's no mystery why; there's a part in the middle that turned me off, not because of the change in attitude about a particular thing on Gillan's part, but because there didn't seem, to me, enough of a reason for such a sharp change---not when something else, so similar, had not affected the change before then.But I get over that by the end, because I love the whole dreamy, fairy-tale-esque challenge/climactic adventure.Really telling is how readily I forgive the numerous typos.
I think this is the first Witch World novel I read.
Within the setting there are sequences it's best to read in order, but Year is the beginning of such a sequence.It opens with Gillan trapped in the Abbey where many women had taken refuge after the Alizon attacks.
Twelve of the brides are being brought to the Abbey.
When each of the other brides has taken up the cloaks, she eventually takes one, and finds herself thus chosen by Herrel, whom, it turns out, is considered by the Riders the least of them.This has consequences.
I suppose meant for sales.As far as a walk down memory lane goes, I actually recalled rather little about the book, beyond the main premise.
(view spoiler)[1) If the wereriders were planning to head back to Arvon why did they want wives from the Dales, that required constant glamour.
I think that any of the early Witch World books into the early 1970s can be read as much for what they reveal about the style, limits and requirements of the time, and how the author was a significant factor in the development of the the fantasy genre.
The romance-novel framing of this story proves this: Gillian joins the group of 12 brides being taken by treaty to the Were-Riders, in place of a young woman who though pledged by her relatives (for their advantage) would not have survived the strangeness.Gillian, it turns out, is not of the 'blood' of the Dales, but of another (at least she's not the lost heir of anything, in this book) and she has skills of seeing past illusion and some power of Will that are not always to her advantage.When the brides are dropped off, they are paired with their grooms among the Were-riders by their choice of cloaks from a weaving spell.
It's tale of sexual politics, in a world in which Witches have power only while they remain virginal, is surprisingly well done, even though it's 'age' shows some-what.This is a book I'm not sure you'd get now adays.
It's also a story about one of the Riders, who is considered the least among them, and how he has to come to terms with his own identity.I think I liked this more than the first witch-world novel, enough at least that I'll continue to read them when I can find them.
The third of Andre Norton’s Witch World novels (going by the order in which they were written) turns away from the science fiction elements of its predecessors and sits thoroughly in the fantasy genre.
It also is related to the first two books only peripherally, with a new setting and a new narrative.And that narrative is in a first-person woman’s voice.
The two previous novels, despite the ‘witches’ in their titles, centered on the adventures of a typical male protagonist and the women, although they played important roles, remained peripheral.
Here, Norton at last allows them to take center stage — perhaps a bit risky in the SF genre during that period.
I had some slight reservations about the first two books in the Witch World / Estcarp Cycle books.
This one, first in the Witch World / High Hallack Cycle far surpass those and will rate in my list of all-time best books.
The different series in the Witch World books was rather confusing to me.
To assist others, here are several sites with good information:A suggested reading order:http://www.andre-norton-books.com/arc...Although I'm not sure I'd agree with this.
Publication date order is often the best.I like this site better.
It gives a listing of the books by Cycle order and also lists publication date.
For many years, I considered this book one of my favorites of Norton's works, but rereading it this time I was less impressed.
I think I liked it originally because it was the first of her Witch World books which was unequivocally straight medieval-level-culture fantasy, in contrast to the earlier ones which were a science fantasy blend of magic vs.
machines.
On the whole, I have always prefered straight fantasy.
This time through, I was more struck by how much it resembled all the other woman-oriented romantic fantasies on the market today (though the sex is much more delicatrely handled).
