https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25074850-the-girl-in-the-spider-s-web
It’s the ones fighting for good who are consumed by remorse.”David Lagercrantz, a novelist and journalist, was asked to assume responsibility for the continuation of a trilogy of novels that frankly took the publishing industry by storm.
For the first part of the book, Lagercrantz puts Mikael Blomkvist center stage.
I can relate to that for there is nothing like escaping into the pages of a good book when life becomes TOO BORING, TOO DEPRESSING, TOO REAL.A call from Frans Balder finally gets Mikael reinvigorated.
It doesn’t take long for Salander and Blomkvist to realize they are working the same problem from different ends of the stick.
Look! I respect for the exertion, but ... man! This is not the lisbeth as we know. It's the lighter version of her. very light. She is just a babysitter for august, some brat hacker who hacks american government.  But I enjoyed to read it anyway. I'll always read lisbeth's stories no matter what. I love her , I2ll always support the effort :DLagercrantz sanki kendi lisbeth'ini yeniden yaratmış gibiydi. Bizim tanıdığımız lisbeth'den geriye pek birşey kalmamıştı. arada bir insanlara fırlattığı o k
This is not the lisbeth as we know.
But I enjoyed to read it anyway.
I'll always read lisbeth's stories no matter what.
I love her , I2ll always support the effort :DLagercrantz sanki kendi lisbeth'ini yeniden yaratmış gibiydi.
Bizim tanıdığımız lisbeth'den geriye pek birşey kalmamıştı.
arada bir insanlara fırlattığı o korkutucu bakışlar ve hackerlıkta olan ustalığı dışında.
Kitap sanki sıradan bir suç romanı gibiydi ama ondan bile eksikti.
Hatta kitapta lisbeth sanki yan rol gibiydi.
Lisbeth arada gelip giden günü kurtaran karakterdi.
Yinede emeğe saygı , okuması akıcı can sıkmayan , su gbi hafif bir polisiye olmuş ama lisbeth mirasına yakıştıramadım açıkçası.
A lot of things going on in the hacker community, people stealing other people's work, killings, blackmail, a little boy with Autism, evilness and goodness.
In the beginning of the book the author does have Blomkvist thinking back on things that happened in the other three books, nothing real extensive but I thought it was a nice little add to the book.
She was so good with him and she did things that needed to be done and in her own wonderful way.
I think the family did a good job in choosing this man to start a continuation of what is a wonderful character.
Despite his partner claiming that Stieg would not want his work continued by another author, Larsson’s family hired David Lagercrantz, a Swedish journalist and crime writer in his own right, to pick up where Larsson left off.On one hand, it’s gross.
The only question being, is Lagercrantz the right choice to take on these iconic characters or is The Girl in the Spider’s Web nothing more than glorified fan fiction?While I certainly wouldn’t label it fan fiction, I also wouldn’t put it on the same level as Larsson’s work (although, I did enjoy it more than Hornet’s Nest).
Despite concerns over whether Stieg Larsson's wishes were being honored by the publication of this book (based on reading "There Are Things I Want You to Know" about Stieg Larsson and Me), I decided to go ahead and try it.
You don't encounter many characters like her.Unfortunately, I was supremely disappointed, so much so that I can't face going back to the book after making it halfway through the audio.
First of all, these are not the same characters of Lisbeth and Mikael that I know from the trilogy.
Blomkvist happens to be doing the same thing - and ( of course ) needs Lisbeth’s help.I’m not sure what the mixed reviews are about ( the fuss?) with book 5...but in book 4..........”The Girl in the Spider’s Web”.....Lisbeth Salander and Mikael Blomkvist still have that robustness toughness team vitality— often at arms length ( agony for me - as I love it when they are in the same room)—but by the end of this novel, I easily accepted that Steig Larson’s characters are in good hands with author David Lagercrantz.
A little dialogue sample of what I love when Lisbeth and Blomkvist are together: “Are you angry with me?” he said “Quite” “Why is that?” “Salander took a step forward, her face shining and pale, and he remembered her gunshot wound”.
Update: read in August 2015 but decided to update in January 2016  I read the The Millennium Trilogy in anticipation of The Girl in the Spider's Web and as soon as it was out I began reading it with a lot of excitement and a little apprehension, just in case the new author doesn't live up to or come close to the writing talents of Stieg Larsson.Well, clearly David Lagercrantz is no Stieg Larsson and everything I loved about The Millennium Trilogy was missing here.
Reto #9 PopSugar 2017: Un thriller de espionaje Comencé el libro con muchos reparos porque no sabía si este nuevo autor lograría mantener la impronta de los personajes y, debo reconocer que lo ha hecho muy, pero que muy bien. Sin ningún problema pude evocar esos momentos, hace muchos años, cuando la historia de Lisbeth, su padre y todo el aparataje de espionaje y corrupción me tenía agarrada de un puño.Sentí el estilo de Lagercrantz bastante más fluido, a pesar que el contexto en que se desarro
Me gustó mucho la forma en que evoluciona la historia para, acercándonos al final, todo cerrara perfectamente y sin cabos sueltos, aunque deja más que dado el puntapié para seguir con el hilo argumental de esta entrega en el próximo libro.Porque ahí reside otra sorpresa: siempre pensé que en el tercer libro había quedado resuelto el pasado de Lisbeth y que en la trama de éste sólo intervendrían nuestros conocidos personajes para dejar al descubierto algún hecho criminal o de corrupción, e incluso así parece hasta bien avanzada la historia, pero poco a poco se descubre que todo está nuevamente relacionado con el pasado de Lisbeth y debo decir que lo encontré un gran acierto.En fin, ahora estoy muy expectante del quinto libro, el que no haré esperar como hice con éste.
Those who just don’t like the book have an easy excuse.Lagercrantz’ unenviable task, or golden opportunity, is to craft a new novel that stays true to the vision of Larrson the creator, revisits two of the most compelling characters in modern fiction, spins a crisp, intelligent thriller that will draw in fans and capture the attention of new readers, and does so with a fresh voice, paying homage to Larrson’s talent while putting ink on a work that is his.For the most part, he succeeds admirably.The Girl in the Spider's Web, the 2015 novel that takes up where the The Girl Who Kicked the Hornet's Nest (2007) left off, brings back Sweden’s most famous journalist and the world’s most iconic hacker for another thrilling adventure of exposed crime and wrongs righted.
While there are definitely some flaws it is a decent thriller and not some horrible attempt at fan fiction.I enjoyed revisiting Blomkvist and Salander's world although the first half of the book really suffers by bouncing around between way too many characters.
I thought for the most part the author captured the general spirit of the series but I never felt like I was getting the full Blomkvist or Salander.
With Salander in particular, it felt like the author was holding back a little and we were only getting about 85% of the character featured in previous books.
He has a different writing style, but Lisbeth Salander remains one of the most innovative and iconic characters in modern fiction: an antisocial goth female hacker, fighting with all her substantial might against injustice, both perceived or actual.
The novel gets off to a rather slow start, with a Swedish professor abandoning his quest for self learning artificial intelligence to take custody of his autistic son, August.
The professor contacts Blomkvist as he is advised of threats to his life, setting off a series of escalating events, forcing Lisbeth to intervene with her usual forceful assistance.
There is substantial action in the second half of the novel, as matters escalate and an old adversary re-emerges from the darkness.
It at times made for a frustrating read as I was constantly comparing the trilogy against this fourth book and always coming to the conclusion that its nothing like the first three.
It felt like characters personalities were changed to adapt this new author.
Some may argue that's to be expected considering Steig and David are two different people and will think different ways, but when trying to carry on a already stellar trilogy, I would have thought that enough research would have gone into it for Lisbeth and Blomkvist to be the same people they were throughout the first three books.
3 stars to David Lagercrantz's The Girl in the Spider's Web, the fourth book in the "Millenium" thriller series, written by a new author given the original, Steig Larsson, passed away several years ago. While the book carries on with great characters and a similar style, it wasn't as satisfying as the originals. But who can resist Blomkvist and Lisbeth -- you can't NOT read it! Story As readers come to know of this series of books, the plots are incredibly complex, intense and twisty. From a bas
When some members of the conspiracy group ultimately realize that the professor is the technologist who has the AI programs they are all after, and he's potentially going to rat out the truth of what's been happening to Blomkvist, someone orders a hit and the professor is killed minutes before telling his story.
Lisbeth is involved in the hacking group and works through a secret computer program to help Blomkvist save the boy and ends up realizing she's very close to the person at the head of the conspiracy.
I initially was going to give this 4 stars, but decided 3 more accurately represented my feelings.
I found the first third of the book tedious and I almost gave up.
Like all newspapers, Millenium is in trouble and purchased by a larger company.
Mikael Blomkvist is unhappy and unmotivated.
There were a lot of new characters introduced, and a refresher list of previous characters was provided in the beginning.
Eventually, the story got interesting because Lisbeth Salander became more prominent.
This was an acceptable effort by David Lagercrantz, but I would have liked more Salander right from the beginning.
Considering that David Lagercrantz was hired by Larsson's estate, and that Eva Gabrielsson (Larsson's partner both in life and in writing) is against this continuation of the series, I'm going to stay away from it. Definitely a money-grab and nothing else.Link to Eva's opinion in English.Link to Eva's opinion in Danish.
Not bad, but kind of confusing. It was like a whole bunch of complicated cyber-hacking sounding plot lines were thrown in a blender and the mush that came out was put into print. The author tried too hard to carry on after Larsen.I think the reason I still liked it a bit was that I know the characters from the previous books. If this was my first time with Blomkvist and Salander, I think I would have been very puzzled.
When I watched the films I had no idea they were book adaptations.
I always feel disappointed to find out that a movie I watched and loved is based on a book.
That is because 1 and a half hour of pleasure cannot compare to the days I would spend reading such a good story.
He is the reason I have just ordered the first 3 books of the millenium series!
Nothing beats a good Nordic mystery!To those of you still wondering...
Seriously, are to going to say no to a new Lisbet Salander mystery?

Despite some of the things I enjoyed, it didn’t do any good for Millennium and for the other things it stands for.If there was something that set apart these novels from everything else I’ve read, was how real these characters felt.
I don’t know, it just doesn’t seem like something Lisbeth would do.This novel was filled with things these characters would never do.
It’s a bit unsettling to think that this isn’t the story that was originally planned for book 4.If you love Millennium and haven’t read “There Are Things I Want You to Know” about Stieg Larsson and Me by Eva Gabrielsson, please do.
David Lagercrantz, the author of The Girl in the Spider’s Web, has no business continuing the story of Lisbeth Salander and Mikael Blomkvist and the other characters he carried over from the previous Millennium books.
And, yes, for anyone’s who already read the book, I know (view spoiler)[that I’m mixing up my superheroes.
I’ll try to hide blatant spoilers, but if you really don’t want to know anything about this book, stop reading.
This annoys the shit out of me because it’s obvious that the author has EVERYONE act like a flaming moron in order to make it easier for (view spoiler)[the weirdo hitman to shoot Balder—but of course spare the kid.
I went into reading this book with the thought that it has a snowballs chance in hell to be as good as Stieg Larsson's books.
It feels a bit like Stieg Larsson father and brother just want more cash and voilà let's find an author to write a fourth novel so we can bath in money.
But I liked finding out more about Lisbeth Salander and stuff I had forgotten came back while I read the book.
Whereas Blomkvist is fighting for his magazine Millennium which has been sold out to corporate biggies due to a financial crunch, (blame it on Harriet Vanger!), but right at the moment when Mikael was sulking with a dry spell of no major stories, he receives a strange call from a source about information which includes USA and can be a major story about a genius professor and also about a female hacker, and thus the story begins with a full force that is bound to pull the readers into Lagercrantz's own personal spider's web.Lagercrantz's writing style is brilliant and fantastic and the way he explains each and everything with such intricate details is amazing.
I hope this is where we finally meet her twin.Sept 2015 --2/5 stars ~0.5/1 for plot0.5/1 for characters and character development0.5/1 for writing style/translation0.5/1 for pace0/1 for world-buildingMy feelings about this continuation of Stieg Larsson's beloved Millennium series are unexpectedly conflicted.
The main plot continues Lisbeth's battle with the remnants of Zala's international criminal network and an important character that's only briefly mentioned on the previous three books, and I liked those two elements because they tie together nicely with what's already been established in the series, but how the plot unfolds feels like a horrible attempt to bank on current popular topics such as the NSA, artificial intelligence, autism awareness, and comic books.Characters and development:Lisbeth is possibly my all-time favorite character, and in this interpretation, she conducts some out-of-character behavior that diminishes her essence.
Lagercrantz, couldn't quite get it right. It always felt like a watered down version Of Stieg Larsson, never felt like "A Lisbeth Salander" novel. Maybe her cousin.
HOT MESSeverything and the kitchen sink is thrown into this plot leaving the reader scratching her headI felt like the author kept thinking of things to write about until he got to the last chapter and said,"uh-oh now I have to link this hodgepodge". Honestly I was right there with the author until he started talking comic books and began adding characters. Fans of the original series, just skip this 2017 Reading Challenge: espionage thriller
I'm so pumped David Lagercrantz continues Stieg Larsson's legacy because we get more Lisbeth and Mikael but I'm skeptical too since there will be changes.
He was murdered and August was the only witness.Many things happened after Frans Balder's death: Millenium Magazine on crisis, hunting the suspects, protecting August from threats etc.
Before I fell in love with this series, I truly had a hard time getting into it due to Stieg Larsson's writing style.
It's easier to get into David Lagercrantz's writing style compared to Stieg Larsson's.
Don't get me wrong, Lisbeth Salander is still a badass chick but I can't help noticing she's tamer and more considerate.
voltou!Dificilmente um apreciador de Stieg Larsson irá sentir-se desiludido com este "A Rapariga Apanhada na Teia de Aranha", mais que não seja pelo outrora improvável regresso da dupla Blomqvist-Salander.Lagercrantz tem o mérito de replicar quase na integra a fórmula de Larsson, ao ponto de ser dificil distinguir onde se desvanece a escrita de um e começa a de outro.
(...)- Porque vim fazer uma visita e não está ninguém em casa."PS - Lagercrantz merece cinco estrelas por tudo o que esta obra representa e pela colagem impressionante à fórmula original, mas guarda-las-ei para um futuro número 5 por respeito a Stieg, mesmo que esta opção abra algum remorso relativamente ao que atingiu LagercrantzNota: 4.5/5.0
Overall I would say that he does a good job picking up the pieces and continuing with the series which must have been no easy task.I thought that the story was very slow paced probably due to the author having to re-introduce characters and explain what was now going on within their lives.
I did enjoy it though and as the story gathered pace it got better and better and shows great promise for the rest of the series.
This is good clean fun, with none of the major problems I was prepared to pour upon it.
To note: Wet get lots of references to technological singularities, emergent AIs, MMORPGS, darknet, and even an ill-conceived MCU geekspew.Technological fantasy is rampant, and it's pretty damn awesome when mixed with more avenging of women and children.
It sucks you in and has a pretty damn satisfying kick the NSA in the nuts conclusion.
Clears my mental plate clean for some real SF or Fantasy that's niggling me.
This seems to be on the horizon when Frans Balder contacts Mikael to tell him he has a big, important story to tell.Before Balder can meet with Blomkvist the computer scientist is murdered in front of his son August, who can't speak and doesn't seem to connect with what's going on around him.
(Readers familiar with the trilogy know that Lisbeth is cursed with one of the worst families in the world.)I'm a big fan of the Millenium Trilogy and was looking forward to this addition to the series.
My main problems with the book:There are intimations in the story that Frans Balder's AI program could potentially allow computers to take over the world and dispense with humans.
