https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1193013.The_Magnificent_Century
King John was dead.Premise/plot: The Magnificent Century is the second volume in Thomas B.
(Narrower in that it just covers the reign of one king, Henry III.
Broader in that it goes way beyond the royal family.) History.
In this volume, readers learn about Henry III and his family, the Marshal family, Hubert de Burgh, Simon de Montfort, and Roger Bacon.My thoughts: I was less familiar with this time period.
I'm not sure if that's because war interests me less than other subjects of if Costain's narrative was unclear.
Namely Henry III's half brothers who came to England from France AND his in-laws.
Henry's wife was unpopular, but his his wife's family was REALLY unpopular.
In the end, it was a century of progress for the right of the common man, science and learning, though the folks of the period would have been hard pressed to see it.As a read, the book was very much a survey.
While far more satisfying than a textbook, the style is not personal and is monotonous at times.So, good solid work of scholarship on a period worth knowing though not as engaging in it's style as many more modern histories the benefit from the advent of scholarly historical fiction and real histories written in that style.
Read By: David CaseGenre: HistoryPublisher: Books on TapeSeries Name: The Pageant of EnglandPosition in Series: 2Abridged: NoBook Description Blurb================THE MAGNIFICENT CENTURY, the second volume of Costain's A History of the Plantagenets, covers Henry III's long and turbulent reign, from 1216 to 1272. During his lifetime Henry was frequently unpopular, unreliable and inconsistent, yet his reign saw spectacular advancement in the arts, sciences and theology, as well as in government. Despite all, it was truly a magnificent century.
This is a great place to begin if you want to get all the facts from the PLANTAGENET'S FAMILY you will understand more what you are reading! I would say this is great for ones starting out as it is easy to follow and isn't a dry read for a non-fiction. But for those with more experience there isn't anything really NEW that you wouldn't already know but it it was fun to hear it all again like a quick refresher course! LOL
Not quite as good as The Conquerors, but it's not the author's fault that Henry III wasn't the character his father and grandfather were. Still a wonderful story, I learned an awful lot about the 13th century.
This is history that reads like a novel.
Since this covers the reign of only one of them, and there were ten more before giving over to the Tudors, I have a feeling someone’s going get scant coverage in the next two books.Regardless, it’s a good read.
The reader reads a little of such—legends?—as Willikin of the Weald, Falkes de Bréauté, Eustice the Monk and others and maybe would like to learn more, but is going to have to look elsewhere.
The book’s title comes from Costain’s contention that, despite the king’s mismanagement and the conflicts it caused, Deare Olde England progressed and prospered; or, if not the lot of plain John Goodfellow, the arts and what was started under Magna Charta did.
A book for those who like storytelling and aren't too worried about accuracy or invention.
I've worked my way through the first two of "The Plantagenet" series under similar circumstances: easy to read, easy to pickup or put down, more than a little inspirational to actually read a more factual account of the events described.
Start with Book 1 and go on to #2 and #3 - don't put too much reliance on their interpretation of events - and enjoy.
This book covers the reign of Henry III, a reign that brought about the beginnings of self rule for the people of England, largely because of the poor job that Henry did as king.
I didn't enjoy it as much as the previous book in the series, mainly because the personalities and events were simply less compelling, which is no fault of the author.
all set alongside the history of England during Henry's poor attempt at ruling.
no sources are noted, which is both weird and disappointing, mine is a boxed set and it's possible other editions are different.
An older book of popular history, clarifying very well a complicated period of time. I liked it and think it worth reading if you like medieval history.
Although a bit more historical in feel than the first book "The Conquering Family", this second volume is still written as popular history to be read by the general public - no major citation of sources, no foot nor end notes here.
Costain combines his own conjecture as well as facts and guesswork provided by the scholars of his day (he writes in the 1950s-'60s) into a sure-footed narrative - he tells a solid tale of history, highlighting characters and interesting figures from the era.Most of the tale is related in linear form, but occasionally Costain pursues an historical character's outcome to it's end - jumping a bit ahead of where the narrative is sitting at the time.
That in itself should be the best indication of the fact that I really enjoy reading these books, because usually I always switch between authors and book cycles.This second volume only re-inforced my initial impression of Costain's work.
As scholary history works they're absolutely hopeless!
English) chest-beating, almost unthinkable in these history books written today by authors considering every step of the way whom they may offend.Here's the amazing thing - despite all of its 'horrid' faults, "The Magnificent Century" is simply a great, fun read.
Damn the deep and thoughtful analysis, never mind the scholary references - sometimes a good story is all that's needed also for a 'real' history book.
Since this was a time period I had not read much about beforehand, I was on the edge of my seat at some times wondering what would happen next.
The story of Henry III is enough to make you wonder how England's monarchy lasted as long as it has and how people convince themselves that being born of a certain family makes them able to rule.
(Don't get me wrong I love England and reading about it's history, but this guy was awful!) This is a book of factual history presented in a readable, enjoyable fashion.
Costain's second book in his Plantagenet series focuses on the life of Henry III and to a large extent Simon De Montfort.
For me, I was not expecting book 2 to be almost totally devoted to the life of Henry III.
He covers the key women of the period in a fair manner and gives them their place in the rolls of history.
One of the joys of reading Costain are his "tangents" where he discusses the details of time and place or the personal history of other people of the period.
Although not as good as The Conquering Family, Costain still presents a fascinating, page-turning history of the reign of Henry III. One complaint that I do have is with the title, throughout the book I kept asking myself why this England under the rule of the absolutely comicly inept Henry was so magnificent. Other than hints at Simon de Monforts democratic ideals, its not until the final few chapters of the book that Costain actually makes his case for the magnificence of the century, which ki
One complaint that I do have is with the title, throughout the book I kept asking myself why this England under the rule of the absolutely comicly inept Henry was so magnificent.
Other than hints at Simon de Monfort´s democratic ideals, its not until the final few chapters of the book that Costain actually makes his case for the magnificence of the century, which kind of seemed tacked on and out of context.
Its hard to believe how terrible of a king Henry was; not cruel like his father, John, but just ridiculous.
Henry as king is what I think the US would be with Donald Trump as President.
The second book in Costain's series on the Plantagenet kings covers the 13th Century and the reign of Henry III.
As he says in the book, Henry III was the son of probably the worst ever English king (John) and the father of one of the best, Edward I.
Although Henry reigned for over 50 years, he was a poor king and somehow the country managed to prosper despite his efforts.
The book has filled another hole in my knowledge of this often forgotten period of English history."
I love British History and this series is among my favorites.
I've had the privilege of reading many of Costain's novels, and while I enjoy them, this history is by far his best work.
His research is fantastic, all the way down to the clothing, which I enjoy as I am a costumer with an avid interest in fashion history.
It's especially enjoyable to read about the Plantagenet's considering the recent discovery of Richard III in a Leicester carpark.
Seriously, though, if you like English history, and you want to know more about all of those Henrys and Edwards and Richards, read this book.
I found the descendancy chart on pp.
Somehow, I did not enjoy this book as much as the predecessor, The Conquerors, perhaps because the personnel were not as interesting.
I don’t think there is as interesting story in all of history as that of Henry II, his wife and sons, and Thomas Becket.
On the other hand, it is intriguing that such a great king as Edward I should descend from the evil and ineffective likes of John and Henry III.
I am therefore rating this book a 7, compared to the 8 that I gave The Conquerors.
Much weaker than The Conquering Family.
Would have been better with more focus on Henry III and less tangents on the state of the church, economy, social order, etc.
Very little of those tangents play into the key conflict of the reign, that between Henry & Simon de Montfort.
I find Costain most compelling when he sticks to power struggles.And if the book is titled "The Magnificent Century", what of Edward I's reign beginning in 1272?
Book felt slapped together at times.As an aside, for a king that ruled for 56 years, Henry III is criminally under-examined.
Wow. Henry III was ridiculous, but his reign was worth it for the backdrop to Simon de Montfort.
He is my new obsession, and I must visit the site where Evesham Abbey (his burial place) used to be some day.
It's hard to hate Henry III and Edward II, though, at least not like I hate William the Conqueror and Mary Tudor.
Henry was too ridiculous to really hate, only feel contempt for him.
And Edward redeemed himself for de Monfort and the expulsion of the Jews as much as a person could.
I'm re-reading this for the second time. It's every bit as wonderful as I remembered it. Thomas Costain (RIP) wrote the most readable history of any historical author I've ever read. His books seem more like fiction and, even when I know what's going to happen, I find myself wondering what comes next. He lends his work a sense of immediacy.As this was book 2 of 4, I'm going to take a break before re-reading books 3 and 4. They will be something to look forward to with anticipation. (and I have so many unread books)
This is the 2nd book in this series and not nearly as fun to read as the first. Too many side treks and out of sequence segments for me. Mr Costain has a higher opinion of Edward I than I do certainly in his reference to Edward being a moderate voice in the dealings with the rebel barons and remaining family of Simon de Montfort. And for some reason still contends that John Longespee is the son of Henry II's Fair Rosamund. Just plain wrong. A dry read for sure.
Costain is a splendid historian, treating his subjects fairly, conveying history as it was, but at the same time writing with a novelist's flair. No chapter is dull, nor any of the characters. Costain blows the dust off them and makes them each stand out from the pages of history, alive with their virtues and vices. If you ever think that all histories are dull, I defy you to find Costain's to be so.
The second book of the Plantagenet series was as illuminating and readable as the first volume. Using Henry III and his long but incompetent reign as the pivot point, Costain tells of the beginnings of England's constitutional government, the events that shaped Henry's son and next king, Edward I, and the hints of the age of enlightenment to come. I look forward to reading the next two volumes as I work my way through the centuries of British history.
What an interesting book! I've read historical fiction about the players in this book (Henry III, Simon de Montfort, Edward I, Eleanor of Provence) but this really explained the back story without much bias. Unfortunately, since this book was published in 1963 and is out of print, I did have to interlibrary loan it from Weber County. Can't wait to start reading The Three Edwards.
Excellent book about Henry III of England - "son of the worst of kings and father of the best." Costain is a great writer; lifelike battle scenes, humor, beautiful descriptions of fashion and court life, and many fascinating anecdotes about medieval life. (And all without graphic sex or profanity!)
I read this in high-school, along with a bunch of other historical fiction. I remember the title as being something I really liked, but for the life of me can't remember the details of what I liked about it, now.
I've gotten accustomed to the narrator's voice, so this was a very quick read. It was fun, but I'd recommend A Distant Mirror instead.
Second in the series. I actually read these a few years ago so this is simply a review of what happened. Given all the novels that are coming out about that time, I would recommend this series for someone who wants an overview of what really happened.
Yet another great job by Costain in his examination of medieval England, this one focusing on the 13th century and the long reign of Henry III. Just one more to go in this 4 book series.
