https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90661.The_Collected_Poems_Vol_2
You really need to read the Collected to understand Williams.
The various Selecteds out there really don't do this remarkable poet justice (though the review I read of Pinsky's new edited volume of Williams was positive--haven't checked that out yet).
He gave his whole heart and mind and life to the craft and study and practice of poetry, and is not easily summed up.
Just as the nature of briars  is to tear flesh,  I have proceeded  through them.
Keep  the briars out,  they say.
You cannot live  and keep free of  briars.
- from "The Ivy Crown" WCW is a mixed bag: romantic, prolific, innovative, influential and often deeply moving, but he fails as often as he succeeds.
Many of his other works, however, should by rights overshadow TRW, and deserve much more attention than they seem to receive: The Descent, The Ivy Crown and Landscape with the Fall of Icarus should be required reading for all poets or readers of poetry.
The second volume of The Collected Poems of William Carlos Williams includes  The Wedge ,  The Clouds ,  The Pink Church ,  The Desert Music ,  Journey to Love , and  Pictures from Brueghel .In addition, Williams's uncollected poems are arranged chronologically and inserted between the individual books. It was outside a placeacross the track -We'd been going all day.But you know - noneof us had any dough we're all on relief -I told the Chief aboutit this morning andhe wanted to pick him up.But y
The uncollected poems also includes translations of Yvan Goll (such as "Jean Sans Terre at the Final Port") and Paul Éluard (such as "Curfew"), along with a selection of Chinese poems translated and adapted in collaboration with David Rafael Wang (such as "Society of Poets")...John Landless sailing on a helmless boat Through waveless oceans towards shoreless sandsLands on a dawnless day at a townless portKnocks at a houseless door with his boneless hands - Jean Sans Terre at the Final Port to Claire Sans Lune (from Poems 1939 - 1944, pg.
- Society of Poets (from Poems 1955 - 1962, pg.
Essential collection of a great American poet***** A Five Star Poetry Book: Recommended for All ReadersW. C. Williams's poems are about as important to modern American poetry as the Rocky Mountains are to the American contintent: you can't get around them. As the reviews here indicate, he's still not to everyone's taste, but his influence is enormous, largely defining great areas of subsequent American verse (most of which however in my opinion isn't nearly as good as Williams himself.) If you are at all seriously interested in modern American poetry, you should have this collection in your library.
This book of poems had to grow on me.
At first I wasn't touched by some of the early poems in the volume, but as I read further I came to love William Carlos Williams' use of imagery and language.
Much of humanity and life are in these poems: average Americans including a few black people,scenes from other countries and eras, "translations" of some ancient Chinese poets.
Also poems from Pictures from Brueghel are here for which he won a posthumous Nobel Prize.
It took me a very long time to get into this book of poetry, but in the end reading this collection was worth it.
In some ways, he reminds me of Charles Bukowski, in that he uses simple language to paint an evocative picture in the mind of the reader, and it’s something that I try to emulate in my own work – it’s difficult to get it right, especially while establishing your own creative style, but it’s awesome once you get it right, and Williams was one of the early masters of it.Let’s take a look at another quote, because I have another 250 words to fill out before we’re done here: “Armed with a brass-violin horn / clarinet and fiddle go four / poor musicians trudging the snow / between villages in the cold.” It’s poems like that which really show how Williams’ simplistic style can tell a whole story in just a few simple words, and this book is full of examples of that.Unfortunately, there are also points at which it develops into lengthy prose, and whilst it isn’t necessarily a bad thing to read it, it’s nowhere near as fun as the rest of the book is.
It shouldbe a song -made of particulars, wasps,a gentian -somethingimmediate, openscissors, a lady'seyes -the particularsof a song wakingupon a bed of sound.2Stiff jointed poetsor the wobbleheaded who chasevague images and think-because they feellovely movementsupon the instrumentsof their hearts-that they are giftedforget the exchange, how muchis paid and how littlewhen you count itin your hand you get for it laterin the market [...]Williams uses poetry as a wedge to open up reality, poetry delivers sense as an obstetrician delivers babies -neither process is a pretty sight.
The RewakingSooner or laterwe must come to the end of strivingto re-establishthe image the image ofthe rosebut not yetyou say extending thetime indefinitelyby your love until a wholespringrekindlethe violet to the verylady's slipperand so byyour love the very sunitself is revivedWilliams is amazing, his poetry feels like breathing to me.
He crammed in his writing at night after busily delivering babies all day and his poems are bursting with real life as seen by someone with all his senses open.
That was the last poem he wrote, by the way--old, sick, and still in love with his wife, with poetry, and with the world.
Here's to living every day possible in the same spirit!
As much as I loved Volume I - I loved this collection better. It shows a more mature poet. It shows a poet both expanding his talents and also spreading them in and through his other passions and loves. It is a very strong collection of the poems of this doctor/writer/artist/lover of life. Brilliant!
There's definitely a maturity in his later work, but he lost a bit of that youthful passion that made his early works so good.
You must read the poems in Dessert Music and Journey to Love. Well, if you're a poet and at all interested in that wonderful triadic line that Williams does, you must read those poems.
It is a great collection of some really good poems.
Love that red wheel barrow
These books also brood on many themes and images common in Williams: love, imagination, flowers, mortality, and poetry.
In fact, these appear themes appear so often in both books that they give the sense of one long piece.The Descent and The Desert Music stand out in the first collection, and Asphodel, That Greeny Flower is the highlight of the second, with this famous passage:  It is difficult To get the news from poems yet men die miserably every day for lackof what is found there.
I read each poem in this book hoping that the next one would be better, or at least, make more sense.
I was actually looking for a poem that I had heard at a writer's workshop and thought was really cool.
But when I finished this book, I was majorly disappointed.
I didn't find any poems that I thought were awesome or deeply moving.
Instead I was annoyed that I had just wasted my time reading this book without getting anything out of it.
Words have sounds that found images in the sound of words that create the images that are found in the words that one creates for sounds.... William Carlos Williams knows how to see and hear through the words of his poems.
I really enjoyed the creativity behind the author's work, and his style in general. His poetry is eye catching and exciting regardless of how old it is.
Best Modernist.
This one was better.
W.C.W. is one of my all-time favorites. I love his pared down words. And images.
So much depends upon a red wheelbarrow
poetry
