https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10587120-killing-lincoln
I just can't get past the fact that a pompous, bombastic talk show host gets to write a best-selling historical non-fiction book when there are real historians (you know, the kind with Ph.D.s that know how to use footnotes) that can't even find jobs.
It's equally clear to me that uber-conservative O'Reilly can't help but view and portray the entire Lincoln assassination through his own very biased lens.
It's just as entertaining and readable as Killing Lincoln.
It also lacked footnotes, and Vowell's own more liberal tendencies are equally evident.
I would have liked Killing Lincoln better if it were classified as something like "speculative non-fiction."
Just for the record - Bill O'Reilly is a conceited ass.
His book jacket description of himself (gag) almost made me not read the book, but alas, it's this month's bookclub choice, and since I attend every book club without fail I did indeed give in to peer pressure.
Lots of interesting details were included I'd never heard of before, and the novel form made it easier to read even if they did wildly speculate some of the time.
I wouldn't expect anything less of O'Reilly though so no surprises there.
Anyone who says he's the most popular political commentator of all time is really good at spewing bullcrap, er I mean, wildly speculating.
(Of course, that's because those details came from diaries written at the time.) I guarantee, I retained more of the facts surrounding this event than I would have if I'd read a typical historical book on the subject.
This isn't a typical read for me, but I have the highest respect for Abraham Lincoln and all he stood for in the face of hatred and injustice, so I was interested in this book.
I read about the same events, the same theories.
My guess is that many people who criticized this book harshly did so more because they have a personal problem with Bill O'Reilly than anything else.
I read some of the Goodreads' reviews for this book and honestly, some of them are just stupid commentaries on Bill O'Reilly, the TV talk show host.
This one was on loan to me by a friend and I wasn't inspired to read it until after I saw the movie, "Lincoln." I agree with the reviews that describe the book as readable.
The power of this book is the story, the larger-than life Lincoln, the pivotal time in the history of our country and the forces of evil personified by John Wilkes Booth.
I kept hearing about this book and no matter what your politics are, this story is worth reading.
Even though, we all know the story about the assassination of Abraham Lincoln, I never knew all the details that led up to that detrimental night.
I also came to find out that I am related to Samuel Arnold (a confederate sympathizer, one that was involved in the conspiracy to capture Lincoln)!This is a book that everyone should read in their lifetime, one that I think should be taught in high school history class.
A book that I constantly found myself sharing interesting tidbits with every person that I came across.
I don't love that a great man was killed, but I love the way this book was put together.
It did feel like a suspense novel...but full of history and truths that I have never heard about.I liked how the chapters headed with the date and the time, and switched back and forth between Pres.
I was doing very well just reading the book without much emotion until after Pres.
The sadness of Mrs. Lincoln in unimaginable to me, and they way the people around realized that this was a moment in history that the world would know.
He loves history, and will love this book.
While Lincoln knew that he had a lot of enemies and had even thought there was a good chance he would be assassinated, he had no idea that his life was about to end.John Wilkes Booth was an anchor and charismatic ladies man as well as an impenitent racist.
He was honestAfter listening to this audio I realize - I did not know him at all.
I did not know about all the background of Booth and the Lincoln conspiracy.
I learned much about Lincoln's life, General Grant, and John Wilkes Booth.I leave this audio feeling like I now know more about the president I adored from afar.
Lincoln was already on record as desiring to give the states relatively easy terms to rejoin the Union and likely had a million more ideas in his head that would have been expressed if he had lived until the war was completely over.O'Reilly does a great job of documenting the climax of the end of major war operations, the celebration immediately after, and the crushed euphoria by John Wilkes Booth.
O'Reilly acknowledges that he uses a type of historical writing that is based on facts but is written like narrative and it does make for exciting reading.
Lincoln's assassination was a devastating event following the deadliest war in American history.
Always interested in this topic, I watched this while visiting my dad last summer and subsequently grabbing the book from his bookshelf, only to recently opt for the audio version from the library.
I just now thumbed through the book to see the pictures of some of the people mentioned but I'm not sure that really added much value for me.
I found this version of the events to be interesting and I didn't take issue with the speculation employed throughout.
Still, I wish this story was fiction rather than part of our history.
this book chronicles one of the darkest times in our nation's history- the civil war and the disturbing emotions among the north and the south as they battle to the bloody end.
while i knew the basic facts about president lincoln and history of the civil war- i grew to understand him and felt his weariness (and the country's) and learned so much more about the war that changed america and it's people.
Abraham Lincoln is a man i would like to meet in heaven.
The book was thoroughly researched and well-written.
It did present some interesting theories about a wider conspiracy than history normally reports, but it wasn't overly conspiratorial.
His decision to meet with Grant at Appomatox Court House and surrender was heart-breaking even for someone with few sympathies for the Confederacy.Booth's plotting and assassination conspiracy read like a spy novel.You don't have to agree with O'Reilly's politics to enjoy this.
Remember that he was a history teacher before he was a political pundit and this is not written from a Conservative or Liberal perspective.
I really liked this book!
The only things I remember about the Lincoln assassination were that he was shot in the back of the head at the theater by John Wilkes Booth, so this was an educational as well as an entertaining read.The book begins at towards the end of the civil war and so the battle scenes were a real attention grabber.
Some of it was from writings from the actual person, but it seemed like the rest was probably artistic license.
I don't know the details about how the book was written, but it sure did make for interesting reading.The authors are big Lincoln fans and it shines right through in the writing.
Unfortunately, I think many may pass this novel by because co-author Bill O'Reilly is such a polarizing voice in political commentary today.
At times, historical non-fiction can be uninteresting reading.
The novel format that O'Reilly and co-author Martin Dugard use here creates a page-turner that allows the reader to almost be there, whether the setting is the battlefield during the last few days of the U.S. Civil War, the streets of Washington, the shadows of the Ford Theatre, or in the swamps chasing after one of the most wanted and infamous men in U.S. History.
It appears that each chapter is actually a watered-down, simplified summary of an article written by someone else.The fact that Bill O'Reilly's name appears in ALL CAPS and a larger font than the title of the book provides a fairly good insight into the purpose of the book...stroke O'Reilly's ego.
I must admit, he does have some friends in high up places who were willing to write good reviews and interesting comments about how amazing the book is...I doubt they read more than a few pages.
I loved this book.
I cannot get enough from authors who write good historical narratives.
Reading a book by Bill O'Reilly I wasn't sure what to expect.
The real question is what part did Martin Dugard the co author play in the writing of this book?
Whatever, the books writing reads like a story.
This book does not bore you on dates, military battles, who is my right or left flank.
Here the authors impressed me with there simple flow of words that kept me turning the page.
If you like reading history as a story read this book you will not be left disappointed
However, I considered reading his book after he hawked it on TV several times and my cousin strongly recommended it.
I obtained a set of CDs from our local library in order not to enrich O'Reilly's coffers; I had nothing to lose.Surprisingly, I enjoyed the book.
For example, O'Reilly presented a fair discussion of the conspiracy theory surrounding the role Secretary of War Edwin Stanton may have played in the Lincoln assassination.
It presents an engaging account of one of the most important events in American history.
I enjoy the Bill O'Reilly and Martin Dugard books as they make for very 'readable' history lessons.
And it was an excellent idea of one of my GR group members that we read a book about a president for the month of February.Although I (and likely everyone) knows the story of President Lincoln's assassination, this book lent much detail of the 'behind-the-scenes' plotting and planning as well as insight into John Wilkes Booth.
(What ever happened to the 18 pages that were torn from Booth's diary?)I learned more about the Civil War; and was glad for the Afterword which told what came of all of the involved individuals.
He presents some interesting viewpoints on the assassination- mystery items that are almost never discussed by assasination scholars- like the whole Lafayette Baker angle, which is significant, but unresolved- it is a shame that he ruined some good points by trying to appeal to a dumbed-down audience.
He presents many things that are new to assassination readers, but you don't know if they're true or not: There are no footnotes in the book- not a good idea for a writer with a shaky reputation for telling the truth.
Бил О'Райли и Мартин Дъгард правят историята интересна и развлекателна. Много образователна и увличаща книгата за последните дни на Ейбрахам Линкълн, убиеца му, други ключови фигури от администрацията Линкълн. Книгата представя доста проверени факти, както и спекулации, които благодарение на добрият стил на авторите стоят разграничени едно от друго и читателя сам се ориентира когато изворът на информацията е пряк свидетел на събитията, както и когато се спекулира.Препоръчвам я на хората, които се интересуват от история или никога не са се интересували, но искат да обогатят знанията си с нещо интересно и достъпно като разбиране.
Clooney, Pitt or DiCaprio? Well, who will it be? Consider: John Wilkes was a handsome, well-recognized, full-of-himself actor. And according to O'Reilly, he was angry and looking for more fame. So he assassinates a sitting US president. It's too good to be fiction. And history belongs to the best story-teller.
I recently had the pleasure of reading Bill O'Reilly and his co-author Martin Dugard's wonderful book "Killing Lincoln".
The strength of the Northern armies eventually forces key Southern cities (Richmond) to succumb and simultaneously surround General Lee forcing him to the unthinkable, the surrender of his army.Further, it tracks John Wilkes Booth and his co-conspirators as they initially start with plans to kidnap Lincoln, which would have been remarkably easy given the lax security surrounding him, to assassination.
It ends with a touching description of Lincoln's final days after being shot and the capture and killing John Wilkes Booth.
While it was interesting to learn some of the details about Lincoln's assassination that I didn't know, this book is often repetitive and circular, teasing you with Civil War sentiments it never quite delves into.
I know the book is not about the Civil War, but I found myself wishing it included more facts about Lincoln's policies during the war, more of his speeches, more of the country's sentiments and situation to set the scene for what the country lost when he was assassinated.
What details are in the book are interesting, but it didn't need to be nearly as long as it is for that.On a side note: that Bill O'Reilly has a big head.
Killing Lincoln by Bill O’Reilly and Martin Dugard unrolls the drama leading up to John Wilkes Booth’s infamous act while unveiling the band of amateur conspirators.
The drawing-room drama of Mary Todd’s spiteful resentment and state-room drama of Lincoln casually dropping in on Secretary of War Stanton could be played out today in a soap opera or on a cable channel.Artist and writer Douglas Coupland calls this new literary genre Translit: “Translit novels cross history without being historical; they span geography without changing psychic place.” The contemporary reader is tossed into the past without having to leave the present.
It is about the final battles at the end of the US Civil War, the last gasp of Southern secessionism and the various personalities that oversaw this tragic but formative period of American history.
The overall intent of the book seems to be to convey the events of the assassination as part of a lived narrative and to encourage readers to do further research into the Civil War, the life of Abraham Lincoln, and the history of the American presidency.
It succeeds admirably at both of these, and I think this would be an excellent way of introducing people to the idea of lived history.
While it is supposedly written like a thriller, I find it to be prone to errors as noted by one of the one-star reviewers here (i.e. talking about the Oval Office, which was not built when Lincoln was president, but in 1909 when Taft was president, and a gross misrepresentation of how Mary Surratt was treated -- she NEVER wore a hood while imprisoned, and she was NEVER on the "Montauk", etc.).
You will see many reviews here (five-star ones) stating that "this book was not written for historians." Does that mean that lousy research is just fine for the unwashed masses?
I just cannot understand the mindset of "it wasn't written for historians, so errors are just fine, as long as it gets people to read about history."
Boring narrator and boring focus. So much richness in this period and that's the best we get? Stopped after about 15% of the audio presentation. OVERALL GRADE: D
John Wilkes Booth - a popular stage actor, charismatic ladies' man and impenitent racist - gathers around himself a similar group of four angry and resentful men who simply could not tolerate the outcome of the Civil War and the fact that Abraham Lincoln was President of the United States.
A furious eleven-day manhunt ensued, as John Wilkes Booth became America's number one most wanted fugitive.I really enjoyed this book.
- for both the victors of any war, as well as for those who are defeated.I would give Killing Lincoln: The Shocking Assassination That Changed America Forever by Bill O'Reilly and Martin Dugard an A+!
After reading some of the vitriol about Killing Lincoln’s authors, even sincere comments from those who actually read the book and didn't care for it are suspect in my eyes.I’ll go elsewhere from now on, not only for reviews but also to purchase.
GoodReads is the place to go for honesty.#Killing Lincoln is a systematic process, following plausible, well-documented leads, laying out facts like a ladder, step by step.
It reads like a combination of a history book and a dramatic play.
And even though we know the outcome, still the facts are what make the book come alive.Don’t miss this excellent book because of the author.
For example, the authors speculate what President Lincoln is thinking when he sits alone in Jefferson Davis' office in Richmond after the Union has taken over the Confederate's Capitol.
There is no mention that President Lincoln told anyone what he was thinking at that moment.
Nor, was there any mention of someone writing in a journal or diary about any discussion with the President about what he may have been thinking at that point in time.
You must read over 130 pages before you even get to the assassination (two-thirds of the book).
A slow beginning to a riveting story. We know the main characters from the hurried lessons in our American History classes. Now we learn more about the conspiracy and the investigation after the murder that changed our country and took away one of the few real statesmen the world has known. A quick and easy to read page turner. This book remains me that American history was one of my favorite subjects in my yout(h). I have several historical novels lined up to read in the near future.
