https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/175489.The_Captive_Queen_of_Scots
I ended up enjoying this one as much as the one about the first half of her life. I loved all the contrasts between Mary and Elizabeth I. I'm definitely going to read Plaidy's take on Elizabeth I soon.
I guess my lesson from this is "be careful what you wish for." When I read the prequel 'The Road to Fotheringhay' I was wishing there was more detail about Mary's life as a prisoner of Elizabeth.
Well, this book delivered that and it was painful.
It was a constant back and forth between manors, castles, and keeps where Mary was held...one failed escape after another...childish "she's prettier than me" slaps from Elizabeth.
I was so bored after the half way point....this book needed some major revisions.
My first introduction to Jean Plaidy and only my second fiction read on the Queen of Scots.
Being that I didn't read book one in this series of two I had a bit of a go getting into the story for the first couple of chapters.
I was, however, impressed by the detail and by the end of the book relieved at the lack of "intimate" scenes as the cover of my vintage copy looks very much like a bodice ripper.
I look forward to trying some of her other Tudor work.
One of Plaidy's best! She left nothing out of Queen Mary of France and Scotland's life. She was just too tender, too sentimental, too trusting to live the life of a military royal, which one had to be at that time in history. She wanted everyone to be friends. That's not how any of this works. AND for someone who wanted to trust people she sure did intrigue in spades.
I love Elizabeth I; I've never quiet tried to see Mary Queen of Scots side of the story because of the love for Elizabeth I...
Although her mother thought she was helping her, she all but ruined Mary to be a true Queen of Scots by sending her to be raised in France and thus heavily influenced by those who had an agenda.
Mind, I don't think Mary was a saint but she felt more human than other monarchs and perhaps that is why I suddenly feel so connected to her.
Written in 1963, this book certainly reflects the beliefs about women; rape unlocks women's sexuality, a woman is either cold and self centered (Elizabeth) or sweet, sunny, and a stupid judge of character (Mary). Men were fooled by her love of the arts to think that Mary was an airhead. All very popular notions about women at the time. She could always be cheered up by a little music. Duh. Since the places, timeline, and outcome are all known, it got tedious to continue so I stopped. Yet another dismal prison castle.
Oh, Seton. I sometimes wonder if Jean Plaidy wrote it from the Tutbury castle itself for it is dull and dragging. The only good thing about the book is that I learned a lot (through Wikipedia) about royal and noble ranks, and peerage. I wouldn't recommend this book unless you're imprisoned and must pass time somehow, and this is the only book available to read.
Ugh. Poor writing, and little character development by page 100. Not worth finishing.
I love historical fiction, but this was horrible. The dialogue was forced, the story jumped all over and the characters were flat.
Can't force myself any further, dry and not at all engaging.
As Jean Plaidy is my favorite author on historical fiction I would be disappointed if it was anything less than 5 stars!
This book mainly covers the years of Mary's imprisonment at the hands of Queen Elizabeth.
The way she writes the book you can feel the years drag on and the madness that had to be the feeling of being free but not.
Don't get me wrong it is not boring by any means.
Mary's kindness and trustworthiness to others is what did her in, but I cannot fault her as I blame this on her upbringing.
To be honest, I didn't finish the book. It definitely needed some better editing, but the story was okay. I was just incredibly bored and felt like I was trying to wade knee-deep through mud. I just dreaded having to read it and wanted to be finished so I finally quit. It follows the history decently, I just didn't have the patience.
I think that Queen Mary was a very nasty piece of work but what I love about Jean Plaidy is that she can make anyone sympathetic. Also, her research is excellent so names, places and events are accurate even if the thoughts, emotions and motivations can be very suspect!
Incredibly boring book. The poor, sweet, wonderful Mary theme dragged on and on for hundreds of pages when the story could have been told in a third of the time. Manages to to turn Mary into an irritating Mary-Sue and in the end I couldn't wait to get to the execution.
Absolutely loved this book. I only wish there were more than two books in his series. Highly recommended to anyone with even a fleeting interest in Mary, Queen of Scots.
After Mary I's death, Edward VI was crowned King at 9 years old, allowed Protestantism again through the rule of his Advisers.
There are some who like to believe that Elizabeth did not know she was signing a Death Warrant for Mary, as it was with 'a pile of papers.'I will be eager to read more non-fictions books on the Queen of Scots and try to see where the line is between the truth and fiction regarding her involvement in the many plots, and if she truly loved Bothwell or the Duke of Norfolk.
a very interesting read
It tells this story with great historical accuracy and the entertainment value of a prime time TV drama.I picked up this book not knowing it was covering just the last 20 years of Mary's life, what I have always thought of as the boring years where she was just moved by Elizabeth I from one castle to another until Elizabeth could find a reason to have her executed.
A lot of books I've read about Mary Queen of Scots (both fiction and nonfiction) either drag the captivity part out or rush through it.
From what I've read in other books, she was portrayed as being a conniving, sly, loose woman who felt she was the true heir to the English throne and wanted it no matter what, but people of her own faith almost worshiped her and thought she was like the Virgin Mary on Earth.
This book portrays her as a very forgiving, trusting woman who only wants her freedom, her kingdom, and her son back, with no thoughts to the English throne.
Somewhat of an old fashioned bodice ripper in fact.
However, in this book the frivolous impetuous Mary who insists on making poor choices evolves as a caring, compassionate person.
We find her sending away the people she dearly loves in order that they might escape her cold prisons and possibly find better health and happiness elsewhere.
However, the author focuses on the character of Mary, leaving Elizabeth the co-protagonist as a rather one dimensional character.Whilst I admire Elizabeth I for her great intelligence and statemanship, I could not help but feel sympathetic towards Mary by the end of this book even though she really irritated me in the first book.
I love the way Plaidy takes the historical facts and puts her own spin on them, leaving the reader caught up in a very realistic and believable world.The best thing I'm finding about this author's novels is that the characters are so realistic.
In this novel, Mary and her companions are as believable as your next-door neighbours, which makes their story so enthralling.The result is a novel that's so good, I'm itching to pick up another Plaidy offering and I know it won't be long before I do.
This is the story of Mary Queen of Scots and covers the years that she was held captive for over 18 years first in Scotland by her own people and then by her cousin Queen Elizabeth I.
Mary is an interesting person, but was an ineffectual Queen.
She never seemed to use her head to think of the consequences of her actions and instead ruled with her emotions and her heart and that cost her her husbands, child, crown, country and her life.
I thought this volume was actually a lot more interesting than the last, but that might be because I know less about the period of Mary's captivity than I do about her more dramatic earlier years.
Most of the movies and books I've read tend to gloss over her captivity but her plots and escape attempts are actually pretty interesting all on their own.
Again, I think the biggest weakness in the book was the whitewashing of the more negative (and probably more interesting) aspects of Mary's personality.
Still, an interesting read and more surprisingly more enjoyable than the first book, which is when all the crazy drama of Mary's life happened.
This review may contain spoilers so beware!When I was younger and more naive, I really liked Mary Queen of Scots.
Now that I am older and wiser I pity her.
The whole book was just painful to read because poor Mary with her optimism and nativity caused most of her own problems.
The beginning just made me want to slap her for being so incredibly stupid.
Jean Plaidy is an incredible writer and I definitely would not have been able to read the whole book had she not written this.
Elizabeth despite being the antagonist has all my respect and admiration while Mary only has pity.
This book focuses too much on creating fictional intrigues for minor characters and takes some of the people who were actually pretty complex (like Elizabeth I) and reduces them to shallow, simplistic individuals. The editing is atrocious, with many missing commas and several words used incorrectly. The book reads as if spellcheck was run on the manuscript, and nobody bothered to check the grammar. Read an actual biography of Mary Stuart; it will give much more detail and development of the main characters, like he two Queens!
What a turbulent time in British history. Although there are versions of Mary Stuart's life and possible plots against Elizabeth I there seemed little proof that she was a symbol for others to plot for her escape and placement on the throne of England. Listening to this well written historical novel was difficult in the final scene and in the execution of the Babbington plotters, it was a real slice of history
A decent enough interpretation of Mary Queen of Scots. What makes this book remarkable, in my opinion, is it was originally published in 1963, before most modern re-evaluations of Mary's reputation had been done (the most definitive of which would probably Antonia Fraser's masterful book, published in 1969).
A decent enough interpretation of Mary Queen of Scots. What makes this book remarkable, in my opinion, is it was originally published in 1963, before most modern re-evaluations of Mary's reputation had been done (the most definitive of which would probably Antonia Fraser's masterful book, published in 1969).
A dim depressing business, Mary Queen of Scots' captivity - for whatever character flaws Mary may have had, she is depicted with compassion. I think Jean Plaidy did an excellent job with this one, making a dreary story entertaining and suspenseful even as we know the ending.
This is the second book in a two-part series about Mary Queen of Scots. It started off a little slow for me (she's a prisoner throughout the whole book - how much can really happen?), but by the end I was hooked and sad about Mary's fate.
