https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91499.The_Epiplectic_Bicycle
What the strange bird muttered made me laugh out loud(sorry other library patrons).What prompted me to give this 5 stars were the comments and reviews of other Goodreaders.It took me longer to read them then it did to read the book.Thank you all!p.s.The front and back cover are very funny.

i have a crush on edward gorey. wouldn't it be great to be his friend, and have him write you birthday cards like the curious sofa?
Of all the books I own this one might possibly be the one I return to the most. The fact that it is very short is one reason; an alligator that rises out of a puddle shouting,"Ho!" is another. Certainly not the most disturbing of Gorey's books (children only beat each other with croquet mallets in this one), but maybe his funniest and most mysterious. And my favourite.
Who can say what this book is about. Who cares is what I say.
Embley and Yewbert's surreal adventures on their epipleptic bike. They begin with a fight with croquet hammers (a novelty weapon!) and then, amongst other things, pass through a field of turnips, which are not there, and meet up with an alligator. The alligator gets hit after it attacks them and, in typical Gorey style, utters the immortal (!) words "I die." Great fun and, as always, beautifully illustrated by the author.
THE EPIPLECTIC BICYCLE is one of the Gorey's usual stories told through ink drawings accompanied by pithy captions.
The story is one of great whimsy and a love of nonsense, and amusingly contradicts itself at several points.While THE EPIPLECTIC BICYCLE is quite funny, I don't rate it among Gorey's most substantial works due to the sparseness of the drawings and the fact that it lacks the macabre tone common to Gorey's greatest work.
If you've never read an Edward Gorey book before, start with THE OTHER STATUE or THE BLUE ASPIC, grim stories whose drawings are of astounding quality.
"Beware of this and that."  Each frame has such dark portent and allegorical potential. This was my second purchased and still favorite of the Gorey books, and a grim reminder to never have siblings. (view spoiler)[And with the children learning nothing after 173 years, causing the bicycle to finally give up the ghost, I have to wonder at Gorey's message about children, and humanity in general. (hide spoiler)]
Embley and Yewbert have a harrowing journey on an untenanted bicycle. I am very fond of the instance in which an alligator accosts them and Embley kicks it in the nose, and it expires. I like books in which the next page does not indicate anything that one can/will/should expect on the following.
A marvelous study of the long and fascinating history of bicycle manufacture in the Trobriand islands. Recommended for all fans of legionnaire's disease and arbitrage.
Another favorite. I actually had birds named Embley and Yewbert.
Charming, absurd, not overly precious but totally lovable.
Delightful and splendid with the usual Gorey whimsy.
So fun to find this teensy book sitting among the hulking monsters on the "G" adult fiction shelf, like a thin little sliver of mushroom smished between two hearty slices of rustic country loaf. And a nice, twisty ending.
A quirky and non-sensical pocket sized children's book, with many a laugh for all ages. Lovely black and white pencil sketches and clever prose. One for imaginative children.
A cute but dark short story from Gorey. Fun quick read with great art as usual.
The Epiplectic Bicycle  by Edward Gorey (first published 1969)While Embley and Yewbert are hitting one another with croquet mallets one day, an untenanted bicycle rolls into their garden. This book chronicles their adventures across turnip fields, through barns and into bushes.
So mysterious and wonderfully weird. The ending is really bizarre! “I die.” Lol!
Absurd and weird - but a little too pointless for my taste...
Gorey's dark, dry humor in a story of two siblings who go on a bicycle adventure.
This might be the oddest and strangest little book I’ve ever read. I kind of liked it.
Hahah. Wut? This was fun.
Delightfully bizarre. Tra-la-la.
Beware of this and that.
I like silly and I like surreal, but my like does not extend to this book.I need there to be a little sense beneath the sill. I desire there to be a clever play on words or an in-joke I can appreciate in the company of a select audience.I could find none of this here.So sorry.Just one more thing: according to the interweb - epiplectic is a form of the word epiplexis, which is a Greek word which means to chide or shame someone into better behavior.
The best conclusion one can come to concerning this book is that Gorey's characters operate within their own laws of space, time, and normalcy. The second best conclusion is that Gorey did, in fact, muddle the language and translation of this book up on purpose so as to delight the reader and annoy the critics (and honestly, they were getting too big for their britches anyways, weren't they?).
I am a huge fan of Edward Gorey (as you can tell by my book list) but this is by far my favorite story he wrote. Even the title sounds absurd yet beautiful. Try it, say it out loud, it's beautiful to say.
This was a lovely Christmas gift from a dear friend. It was completely random and delightfully funny. I loved the illustrations. Definite proof that two wheels are better than four (at least in cases where the two wheels propel themselves)!
Despite the plot indicated in the title, it is one of Gorey's most fluid tales. The puppetmaster of poetry and pictures, Gorey proves once again to be the definitive auteur of literature and the term "in a class by himself" dodges cliché with a swerve of the handlebars.
The Doubtful Guest is still my favorite gorey, but this one does have some moving renditions of drowning. right? am i thinking of the right one?
