https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/192888.Clouds_of_Witness
Lord Wimsey (Gerald, or Jerry) left the house late at night and trips over the body on his way back to the house around 3:00 a.m. His sister, Lady Mary, also sees him and claims in the inquest that she heard a shot fired around 3:00 a.m. The groundskeeper said he heard a shot at 10 minutes before midnight, but nothing later.Lord Wimsey had been heard quarrelling loudly with the deceased late that same night.
Since Denis Cathcart was engaged to Lord Wimsey’s sister, Lady Mary, Lord Wimsey confronted him regarding some discrediting information which resulted in Denis Cathcart abruptly leaving the house.
At the inquest, Lord Wimsey refuses to state an alibi for himself, and the mounting evidence indicates he is guilty of murder.There is a Grand Jury hearing, and the case proceeds.
dashing peter wimsey dashes into some more dashing adventures.
he's one of literature's greatest detectives.
but just as enjoyable is his faithful manservant bunter.
peter runs around figuring things out with his clever, clever mind but it is bunter who often gets his hands dirty with rather agreeable tasks like chatting up all the maidservants and various other domestics.
tasks he clearly relishes but approaches with suave professionalism.
various witnesses never fail to succumb to bunter's charms.
he's the man!
the novel was fun.
i was never bored, so there's that.
well, no need to get into it.
This delightful mystery is the second featuring Lord Peter Wimsey.
When his brother, the Duke of Denver, is accused of murder then it is Lord Peter’s job to clear his name.
Why is he being so secretive and what is their sister, Mary, hiding?This is a wonderful, Golden Age mystery, with Lord Peter Wimsey and Charles Parker truly collaborating.
There are some great, atmospheric scenes, most notably when Wimsey and Bunter are lost on the moors.
The scenes in the House of Lords, where the Duke of Denver is tried, are also very interesting.
(Most delicious!) The police aren't much help, so with the help of his friend, Chief Inspector Detective Guy Man And Other Words Charles Parker, Wimsey attempts to solve a devilishly difficult case involving his brother, sister and sundry others related and not.This is all very hoity–toity, upper English society stuff where a spot of murder is nothing next to the accusation of cheating at cards.
It's sort of like reading a book in which Bertie and Jeeves solve a murder, so this is right up my alley!Highly recommended for Agatha Christie fans looking for slightly better developed characters and more of a sense of fun.
The mystery itself almost takes second place to the doings of Wimsey's family, placing Wimsey himself very firmly in a distinct social setting, his home turf where he seems more real than in many of the other books.
He doesn't show off nearly as much when he's in the countryside, either; I can't help feeling that, titles aside, this is a depiction of the sort of society Sayers was raised in before she went off to London.I also enjoy the sketch of Wimsey's sister Lady Mary Wimsey, who turns up in later novels but only as a cardboard cutout (his brother Gerald never gets his character developed, which is a great shame).
"Wimsey would be one of the finest detectives in England if he wasn't lazy"This should give you a feel for the kind of cozy mystery series that is Lord Peter Wimsey. It is more slap stick than Agatha Christie and more "pip pip, old boy, good-o" English than her too.With the first book I kind of struggled a bit to get engaged, whereas this one I found myself more invested in the story early on. I didn't really enjoy how it all resolved, but it was still a fun ride through to the end ;)
This is the best Sayers I have read to date!I found the beginning a little tiresome, but as soon as Lord Peter started his investigation my interest was engaged.Sayers writes with a dry wit that had me chuckling out loud in places, and reflecting on the social changes that have taken place in less than one hundred years.
Lord Peter's sister's fiancée, Cathcart, is found dead outside the conservatory of Riddlesdale Lodge, the family retreat, in the early hours of the morning.
And what was Gerald doing in the garden at 3am?'This is a cracking good read in the best English Murder Mystery style.My favourite quote (amongst many that I enjoyed) from this book : "Seems to me there's an extra allowance of fools in my family."
Dorothy Sayers works seem to me to be perfect for anyone who enjoys the writing of Agatha Christie and P.G. Wodehouse.
Sayers imparts an acerbic edge that keeps things from getting too twee.
She manages to make sharp observations on both the gentry and the socialists, sometimes at the same time.
I’ve recently been cataloguing the works of H.G. Wells, who wrote a lot about socialism in the early 20th century, and I find Sayers’ insights on the complicated societal changes of this time period to be spot on.She isn’t gentle with her fellow authors either.
I liked Lord Peter Wimsey in Whose Body?
Lord Peter Wimsey, Bunter and Parker tirelessly work to find what exactly happened that night.
Beside Lord Peter Wimsey, Bunter and Parker, one of my favourite characters ever is the Dowager Duchess.'My dear child, you can give it a long name if you like, but I'm an old-fashioned woman and I call it mother-wit, and it's so rare for a man to have it that if he does you write a book about him and call him Sherlock Holmes.' I'll avoid quoting half of the book, but its greatest strength is the humour.
Sayers may be the perfect mystery writer for me - she combines the plotting of Christie with the wit of Heyer & I get the wonderful Golden Age setting from all of them!Everything is improved (other than Bunter, he was already wonderful!) from   Lord Peter while still insouciant is no longer Bertie Wooster playing at detectives. His is a well rounded character who lives a life filled with varied interests as well as his work as an amateur sleuth.So many witty quotations - I've added a couple
Sayers may be the perfect mystery writer for me - she combines the plotting of Christie with the wit of Heyer & I get the wonderful Golden Age setting from all of them!Everything is improved (other than Bunter, he was already wonderful!) from 
Lord Peter while still insouciant is no longer Bertie Wooster playing at detectives.
My only criticisms are that a few things seem to be pulled out of thin air and that Gerald was such a bonehead!
The plot is absurdly complicated, amusingly so. There are no end of intrigues in the country house where the murder takes place.But that's not the joy of reading a Sayers' novel: the pleasure is all in the humor. Wimsey acting a fool, Bunter's magical ability to produce anything needed, Mary's good heart, and the Dowager's formidable control of everything. It's Downton Abbey written by Oscar Wilde.Personal copy

Sayers was a woman ahead of her time and not a typical writer of crime fiction.
She was a published poet and had worked in a publishing house, as a teacher, a translator and an advertising copywriter by the time the first of her Peter Wimsey novels was published in 1923.
Sayers brought fierce intelligence and uncompromising artistic integrity to all of her writing, including her crime fiction.
And unusually for a Golden Age British crime fiction writer, Sayers allowed her central character to develop over time.
I suppose," he added to himself, "they will have finished tea."In the seventy-six words of the above piffle (not counting the sensible first and last sentences), there are hits on the Bible (the prodigal son, and Jezebel; interesting she should come into the picture right here), and Shakespeare (Hamlet, "Good night, sweet Prince"), though the cows are a separate entity, inspired, one imagines, by the setting, and possibly a poem called “Edessa” ('My own long lost boy!'), and “The hounds of spring are on winter’s traces” is from the poem Atalanta in Calydon (1865)".
Featuring Ian Carmichael as Lord Peter Wimsey, Peter Jones as Bunter, and Gabriel Woolf as Inspector ParkerThis is the second of the Lord Peter radioplays, at least going chronologically by the order of the books.
I think only Ian Carmichael could get exactly the right tone for me in the part where Wimsey climbs on Parker’s back, looks over the wall, and then announces that it’s a marvellous ditch which he is going to proceed to fall into.And of course, the ending with everyone drunk is pretty funny…The main thing that doesn’t really work for me is, unfortunately, the sound effects.
In both the mystery and the characters, I thought Sayers came through brilliantly!Lord Peter Wimsey (the main character and detective) is truly a humorous, clever, thoughtful, and lovable character!
Wimsey himself was a delightful enough character to hold my interest through the book, but add to this his good friend (and partner in crime-solving) Mr. Parker (adorable friends!) and Mr. Bunter (another more "proper" counterpart to Wimsey) and you have an entire book set to amuse!Oddly enough, Sayers doesn't use a lot of description.
I quite enjoyed my first Sayers mystery, and am delighted to have begun what I assume will be a long and pleasant acquaintance with Lord Peter Wimsey.
Yet, as one character so wisely remarks, Lord Peter doesn't just putter around his estate and shoot birds, he helps solve some of the most puzzling crimes and, in this story, it's all the more touching and pressing since it involves his family.
(Note: A few scenes were also a little bloody for my taste, but overall sill very tame by today's standards.
This one sets Peter Lord Wimsey's birth family into their core characteristics.
Lord Wimsey and Bunker are all over the place and nearly end their existences in a bog, within a fog.
Reading it after some of the much later, I have to admit that this is one that gives you much pivotal exact family member character and core.
I'd have understood some of the much later novels in Lord Wimsey count to a clearer, unspoken onus degree to trusting or doubting relationship, if I'd have read this one previously.
I just love Lord Peter. Very frivolous, but totally serious about his crime-solving! In a way, he's like Columbo. (Not fashion, obviously.) He is underestimated by his adversary because of the front he puts to the world, but when you come right down to it, they're doomed. In this story, we learn more about Lord Peter and his family when a murder comes to the heart of his aristocratic family. Very fun what with adultery, card sharps, elopements and Soviets!
Love Dorothy Sayers, a great mystery writer that parallels the work of Agatha Christie.
Lord Peter Wimsey and this 2nd installment was better than the first now that I am quite used to the lingo etc.
I loved the description of the fog that rolled in (pg 274, I have the 1-3 book version ) and the scene that unfolded in the bog....."uphill or downhill seems much the same thing in a fog.
It is hard to believe that one is really helpless." Coincidences, mentioned in explanations near the end of the book, I think not, this is truly a well-crafted piece of fiction.
Of course, if you’re missing a reference in the chain, you’re doomed, but I’m having fun trying to follow it all through.
Sometimes it helps to google things and find people wondering about the same bits, too…Considering how close to Peter the story is — given his own brother is accused of the murder of his sister’s fiancé, with his sister as a witness — it doesn’t seem as close to the character as we were during the last chapters of Whose Body?, where Peter is having his PTSD episode/recovering from it.
Still, there’s plenty of interaction with Parker and Bunter, and plenty of Peter poking his nose in where it’s not wanted (and sometimes where it is wanted, in that timely manner he has).
A man was shot dead, and all of the clues point to none other than Lord Peter Wimsey's bother who also happened to have a good motive for the murder.
I hope I will not give a big spoiler when I say that he eventually succeeds in this.This is the second book of Lord Peter Wimsey investigations.
The main characters look bad even if I compare them to themselves in the first book.The main clue is presented at the very last moment making it impossible for the reader to arrive to the culprit's identity which is a fairly cheap trick.
Well, the Lord Peter novels certainly improve the older they get.
This one, the second mystery that Sayers wrote, is mostly okay.
Not bad, not great, just okay.
Not since Holmes and Watson has literature known such a true bromance), plus it ends with a scene where Lord Peter is drunk as a skunk for no apparent reason.
But the mystery itself isn't terribly compelling (which, considering that it deals with murder, is a bad sign) and its solution is one of those where the detective explains how he found the culprit and you think, "Well, if I knew that I could have figured it out, too!"
Оскільки зазвичай я встигаю забути все, то часто це той же роман - а потім дивуюся, чому результати послідовно незадовільні (зазвичай це Whose Body?, відгук тут).
Зараз зсунулася вбік на роман, який ще не читала, й потішилася більше.
Чим і підкуповує більше, попри всі нагромадження сюжетних натяжок."My dear child, you can give it a long name if you like, but I'm an old-fashioned woman and I call it mother-wit, and it's so rare for a man to have it that if he does you write a book about him and call him Sherlock Holmes.”
In this installment of Lord Peter Wimsey’s detective series, Peter’s older brother, the Duke of Denver, is accused of murder.
‘Are you suggesting, Lord Peter,’ said Mr. Murbles, in a tone calculated to chill Peter’s blithe impetuosity, ‘that, at the very time Mr. Cathcart was betrothed to your sister, he was carrying on a disgraceful intrigue with a married woman very much his social inferior.’‘I beg your pardon, Polly,’ said Wimsey.
I wouldn’t recommend anyone to start the series from this story, but for anyone already familiar with the charismatic detective, Lord Peter Wimsey, this book is a must.
This is the only book where I feel a little bad for Helen.My favorite moment is probably when Peter goes to visit Denver in jail and they look at each other, each seeing his own features in the other's face, each unable to figure out why his brother thinks the way he thinks.It's that family angle that saves this book, because the mystery is, frankly, a letdown.
This is the second book in the Peter Wimsey series and is simply delightful.
This novel really gives you a look at Peter and his family.
There is not enough of the Dowager Duchess but it's fun getting to know his siblings.
Bunter is someone I want in my life.
He runs Peter's bath water, brings him breakfast in bed and pulls him out of quicksand.
Peter's life?
Who wouldn't want it?
He's waited on hand and food, has no money worries and spends his time looking for rare books.
I don't know how I missed Sayers' books before this but I'm glad I've found her now.
“Beliefs don’t matter.
It’s what you know about people.”Readers who like 1926 tongue-in-cheek detective stories of manners and fans of Downton Abbey, will find this just their cup of tea.
“Time and trouble will tame an advanced young woman, but an adult old woman is uncontrollable by any earthly force.” Lord Peter's brother, the Duke of Denver, is accused of murder.
Suddenly Peter's embarrassing hobby--sleuthing--may save Duke Gerald’s title ...
The title gives away the twist: too many witnesses to too much, some of it misleading or simply untrue.I’ve read this book before.
Don’t know where or when.
I now have a better mental image of Peter & co., after all, and I only comprehensively fell in love with the character when he fell in love with Harriet Vane.
I really do love it, though: particularly, this time, the details of Inspector Parker determinedly to set out to purchase a fancy camisole for his sister, which tickled me rather -- and of course, his infatuation with Lady Mary.I do think the novels get better with the introduction of Harriet Vane, but Clouds of Witness still has plenty to offer.
The second Peter Wimsey novel, in which our hero helps defend his brother against a murder charge."Rustic old Riddlesdale Lodge was a Wimsey family retreat filled with country pleasures and the thrill of the hunt – until the game turned up human and quite dead.
His accused murderer was Wimsey's own brother, and if murder set all in the family wasn't enough to boggle the unflappable Lord Wimsey, perhaps a few twists of fate would be – a mysterious vanishing midnight letter from Egypt ...
And development of the series' characters - Inspector Parker, Bunter, Mary Wimsey.Good stuff.
