https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19161890-recoil
Can Pat keep from violating his parole and Dr. Luther's wife long enough to discover why he was paroled in the first place?All aboard the train to happy town, it's another Jim Thompson book.
Sprinkle in a dash of Luther's hot young wife Lila and you have a recipe for a typical feel-good Jim Thompson tale.Unfortunately, Recoil isn't the book I was hoping to read when I picked it up.
Luther's purpose for springing Pat isn't revealed until very near the end and received a resounding "did I just turn over two pages at once?" from me.
I've read most of what he's written, and plan to finish all of his books before I pass from this mortal coil.
This book was a pleasure.
As in most Thompson novels, the main character is an intelligent man who's fallen on the wrong side of the law and wants to make a play for straight.
Pat tries to solve the mystery of his benefactor before he outlives his usefulness and is sent back to the prison where he spent 15 years of a 10 year sentence for armed robbery.
Thompson is a master at crime fiction.
I don’t know quite what to make of this book. I have been a long-time fan of Jim Thompson, but this one struck me as slightly flat. I wasn’t sure if it was a screed decrying corruption in government, a revenge story, or just exactly what. Perhaps this is a reflection of the character's ambivalence to his situation as he tries to understand the motivation of Doc Luther. It had an amateurish quality to it that bothered me, and the characters seemed flat. 2.5 stars rounded to 3.
Many reviewers have said that nothing much happens for stretches at a time but personally, I just loved reading Thompson. Letting him do all his magic and be dragged in by my ankle into a puddle of Thompson soup. It all paid off because the twists and turns and action towards the end is really a joy to read. When it comes down to the whole thing, this book is like a painting Thompson paints and only if you look at it from just the right angle you see it's beauty.
La escisión de la identidadAprovechando que acabo de terminar la biografía del escritor norteamericano, una joya de la que tendréis noticias en este blog en no mucho tiempo; se me ocurrió la posibilidad de hacer un pequeño monográfico con las obras que me quedaban por leer del escritor; ha valido mucho la pena, sobre todo porque gracias al análisis de la biografía, es indudable que ayudan a disfrutarlas mucho más.La primera de ellas ha sido la última que ha sacado RBA en su serie negra, “Libertad Condicional”, obra encuadrada históricamente tras el que fue su primer gran éxito, esa obra maestra que es “El asesino dentro de mí”, esta influencia y la atracción del cine serán decisivas en el resultado final.Partiendo de una buena idea, se nos presenta un presidio, Sandstone, donde el convicto Pat Cosgrove malvive, pero que, sin embargo, verá la posibilidad de salir gracias a la ayuda aparentemente desinteresada de Doc Luther, obteniendo la libertad condicional para trabajar con él, librándolo de un verdadero infierno:“Luther creía estar acostumbrado a las aberraciones.
Classic Jim Thompson. Probably not in his top 10 but I'm sentimental about this one as it was the first Black Lizard book I read, which sent me on a long journey into the weird and wonderful world of hardboiled crime. I've never regretted an afternoon spent with Mr. Thompson.
I recently read Pop. 1280 and rather liked it, but Recoil, which I couldn't have finished more than five minutes ago, was really great.
Sixty-five years later it reads like it could have been written today, with its protagonist being just hard enough to do whatever it takes to not be a pawn but being just a step behind where he needs to be.
The book reads faster than this entry--which I'm cutting off here--but Thompson's hard-boiled prose will burn your eyes into used lumps of charcoal, and that's a lot better than you can usually hope for.Post Script: While finishing the book and writing this entry, I was watching Brick.
Recoil by Jim Thompson Why would a powerful political insider help a man in prison obtain parole? Could it be out of the goodness of his heart? Or, could there be an ulterior motive? And, is that possible motive be personal or political? This is just what happens in this 1953 neo-noir suspenseful story of corruption. How can Patrick Cosgrove, a fairly innocent convict (I know how contradictory that sounds) understand and combat the machinations of a powerful man? The story is a bit dated, but the suspense is kept high, and the reader confused. Always a good thing.
A regular Joe realizes he's being made the fall guy and tries his best to unravel the set-up before he takes the fall.
I love these types of stories and this one delighted me because it's framed inside the mind of an unusually paranoid fellow.
Definitely a page-turner, many of the short chapters end on the proverbial cliff--almost to the point of absurdity.
I love a good page-turner though and this did not disappoint.
I recently read Savage Night by Thompson and that book is much more subtle and somehow much more dark than this one and I'd have to recommend it first!
Doc Luther, a sleazy political horse-trader, pulls every available string to get Pat Cosgrove paroled into his custody. The strange thing is that Doc and Pat do not know one another--so why does Doc want Pat out of prison? Why does he get him a job, buy him clothes and a car, and throw women in his path? In a genre that often strains credulity, I found the answers to these and other questions to be remarkably inane and unsatisfying. And more remarkably, perhaps, Jim Thompson managed to bore me fairly steadily. A disappointment to be sure.
I've read a lot of Jim Thompson ... he's right up there with my favourite authors.However, this is the first time, that I'd have to describe one of his books as being mediocre.It is unusual in one aspect. If you don't want me to spoil the ending for you, don't read any further.For others who have read the book, I can't think of any other Thompson novel that involves a positive outcome for the main character.I've had a few drinks today, so please correct me if I am wrong.
This Jim Thompson book stands out among the ones I've read so far. It's more like a Raymond Chandler story with the acidic dialouge, and it's very noir. The introduction of several women gradually makes the story more complex. I can't help to think that he might ironically have hinted at for someone to please make a movie out of this, based on the existence of a resolution and smirky summation at the end. Fun shit.
Wow, this was strikingly confused and mediocre. I think I'm into the C-list Thompson. He's still a fascinating writer on every level, but evaluating some of these books as novels, I just get bored and confused. The class and race elements in his works are still always intriguing, though.
This book drew me in and kept me reading, wanting to know the secret the main character was trying to discover.
Pat Cosgrave, a small time convict, is paroled to a man he knows nothing about for seemingly no reason by the kindness of his heart.
Right from the beginning, things are strange, and soon Cosgrave realizes the man intends to use him in some kind of scheme.
Number one, I found it completely unrealistic that Hardesty handed him the gun, when it was obvious he might do whatever he wanted with it, other than killing Doc. Anyone could have anticipated he would turn the gun on all three of them.
Doesn't hit as hard as The Killer Inside Me or Pop. 1280; nor is it as twistedly deranged as The Grifters. Pretty straight-forward hard-boiled noir. Which is fine. It's a fun good time, with snappy wit and plenty of two-faced double-crossing. So I had fun. If you're looking for a soft intro to Thompson's twisted world, this is the one for you.
I bought this in a used bookstore because the author's name is Jim Thompson. I like cheesy noir fiction from time to time. This book did what it was supposed to do.
Libertad condicional parece desde luego un intento de acercar la novela criminal a todos los públicos, el argumento, algo confuso a veces, es más político que otra cosa, y está basado en una trama que se teje a espaldas del protagonista y que el lector tiene que ir intuyendo y desentramando. Sorprende, y más para la época, que Thompson dejara a un lado la oscuridad de sus tramas, la violencia y la visceralidad que tanto nos gustan de él y se encaminara hacia algo tan descafeinado como lo que al final resulta ser Libertad condicional.https://viajealrededordeunamesa.wordp...
A man gets paroled from prison by a seeming philanthropist only to realize the guy is trying to pull a  Double Indemnity on him. There's a plot about the Phalanx League, a group of 'super-patriots' crusading to replace the state's school textbooks with worthless ones that flatter their ideology.
Minor Jim Thompson. Engaging, but not much there. Not really too hard-boiled, with minimal violence. Very short, I must say.
Gotta love Jim Thompson, simple style but awesome suspense. I need to read more Thompson.
Ditto `Corgi` (?).
Ditto `Corgi` (?).
An interesting setup and twist, but the scam being perpetrated wound up being completely weak and implausible.
This is a totally fun caper type story, a little light on plot, but just as much fun as a lot of Thompson's simpler work.
Slow release of boring plot and implausible characters made this a dull book.
Funny. Even with all the exposure to Jim Thompson and reading a lot of his stuff, there are still a few surprises. I got 80% of the ending but that last 20 left me wondering hmmm.
Classic, you will read three times a year for the rest of your life.
Not exactly top-tier Thompson. The first half establishes a convincing sense of paranoia, but the big reveal is underwhelming and the upbeat ending comes out of nowhere.
Not exactly what I call noir... But this book is awesome anyway!!!!! A very quick, easy read. The plot is intense and thrilling. I couldn't stop reading. Well, Thompson is just so great.
I love Jim Thompson's books. It's hard to find a - better yet, here's what the New Republic had written about him: "Read Jim Thompson and take a tour of hell."
