https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2282578.Unfinished_Portrait
What an amazing novel.It's so clearly autobiographical if you know the basic facts of Christie's life and that's why it's so fascinating in this way that horrifies you with its ruthless psychological detail but also imbues you with a sort of ...
responsibility, a commitment to see it through because this is, as her second husband says on the back of my book, "nearly than anywhere else a portrait of Agatha."So because you're so wrapped up in the awful intimacy and inescapable authenticity of the story, the way Christie suddenly pulls back and twists the end in pure literary triumph ...
This was the second book I've read by Agatha Christie writing under her pen name.
It seems she used this alternate identity to write a different type of book than the mystery/thrillers that she was so famous for.
I understand she only used this pen name in the earlier part of her career.
Overall I found the book rather gloomy and in the end I was left a little confused about the overall message she was trying to convey.
The bottom line for me was that it really doesn't mean good things for a book when you are relieved to finish it!
Review later.
had it been possible, I would have given it 4.5 stars - this book gives a very good idea of whom Agatha Christie was - just loved it
**vague spoilers**Very interesting to read a Christie "romance", not that there's much romance in it.
Great insight into human behaviour in the context of the social structure of the time (1930s).The best thing about the book is the contrast between Celia's cosetted dreamworld of a childhood, where she was shielded from everything, had nannies and staff running after her and a doting mother, and her bleak adult life; poor, married to an emotionless husband with a daughter who turns out like her "sensible" father rather than her "silly" mother.The ending is a bit rushed but I thought it was clever how the "Gun Man" of her childhood nightmares came back into the conclusion of the book.Overall, a very well-written story which proves that Christie wasn't just the Queen of Crime.
After reading Unfinished Portrait, I will now go out of my way to find more Westmacott novels to enjoy.
I’ve always been really curious about Agatha Christie’s work as Mary Westmacott so I decided to start by reading an Unfinished Portrait.
First of all let me just say that I’ve always been a great fan of her work and for that reason my expectations towards this book were high - unfortunately they weren’t met.
I didn’t like the main character – thought she was too submissive and naïve – and the writing was a bit dry.
Reading this book was a bit of a challenge but I managed to finish it; I wouldn’t recommend it, especially if you more accustomed to her crime novels.
Este libro lo leí hace muchísimos años y es muy especial para mí. Mary Westmacott es Agatha Christie. Ha escrito algunos libros de tono más bien intimista. Este en particular me hizo sentir profundamente identificada. Trata de las reflexiones acerca de su vida de una mujer muy tímida luego de un fracaso matrimonial. Tiene un final más bien abierto. Pero repito, me sentí tan identificada ue de ahí mi puntaje. Para otros puede resultar aburrido o incomprensible. Solo para introvertidos.
She has lost everything and everyone that she has ever cared for, has made decisions she wished she had not, and does not believe that life holds any future chance of happiness.
It was simple, and followed the life of a woman, from infancy until her mid-thirties.
It was almost like reading a short biography of Celia's life, rather than a work of fiction.
Since reading the book I have become aware that this is actually a semi-autobiographical account of Christie's own life.
I find this highly intriguing, and interesting, and I wish I had known that when I was reading this book.Celia was a likeable character, although her attitude towards her husband irritated me.
Good prose. The moral of this long story seems to be - never give your children a sheltered up bringing; and, always have one friend to whom you may vent all through your life (for women).The moment Cilia tells her story, she is free...Just tells you the great need to tell that women have!In Indian mythology, Yudhishthir had cursed women with the inability to keep anything in their stomach for too long (being angry with his mother, Kunti; for hiding the fact of an elder, illegitimate son; till after his death). Guess, this story gives that fable credence.
Agatha Christie ist eine brillante Autorin, mit einem unglaublichen Gespür für die Bewegründe, die Menschen antreiben, doch wie brillante sie ist, wird besonders deutlich in ihren Romanen, die unter ihrem Pseudonym Mary Westmacott erschienen sind.Das unvollendete Porträt hat mich völlig durchgeschüttelt, wie es schon die zwei anderen Roman (Ein Frühling ohne dich und Spätes Glück) getan haben.
Hat man ihre Autobiographie gelesen, verändert sich der Blick auf das Buch, man erkennt die stark autobiographischen Züge.
Obwohl die folgenden Kapitel noch immer aus Sicht unseres Erzählers geschrieben sind, ist er so nah bei der Person, die er porträtiert, dass man das Gefühl bekommt, einer autobiographischen Erzählung zu lauschen.
It is indicated by Christie's daughter, Rosalind Hicks that "It (Unfinished Portrait) also relied a lot on her (Agatha Christie) own experiences and early life." For more details, see the link at the bottom of this review.There are moments when it seems absolutely impossible that the Mary Westmacott novels were written during the time period of 1930 - 1956.
I can't imagine the joy for those that had the opportunity on their life journey to interact with Agatha Christie.
She is so insightful and through her characters conveys an amazing clarity of relationships (e.g. husband/wife, father/daughter, mother/daughter, nurse/child, grandmother/granddaughter).But there is also a sadness to the main character of Celia and perhaps it is best explained by quotes by Agatha Christie during her lifetime.• “Everybody said, "Follow your heart".
It gives a round picture of late Edwardian living and life during the years between the World Wars.Those that have previously read Christie's Autobiography will recognize many of the stories, but the interest value of these tales is such that Unfinished Portrait doesn't suffer as a result of fore-knowledge.
Christie writes well enough that the reader is both entertained by Celia's life, as well as tense, waiting for the blow to fall.
Christie understands human nature, even if it is only her own she is writing about, and as a result, this novel presents as real and believable.
It's a good read, for many reasons, and I recommend it.
A suicidal woman recounts her life story.This book was interesting in sections, but the family drama elements didn’t really engage me.
Autobiographical portrait of Agatha herself, I really liked this book, although it's very sad at some point, but then life is just like that.===================Retrato autobiográfico de la propia Agatha, me gustó muchísimo este libro, aunque es muy triste en algunos momentos, pero la vida es así.
The word "romantic" is in quotations simply because these novels are not in the actual sense of the word or even like the literary era called "romanticism." Dame Agatha Mary Clarissa Christie DBE (née Miller; 15 September 1890 – 12 January 1976) was a British crime writer of novels, short stories, and plays.
She also wrote romances under the name Mary Westmacott, but she is best remembered for her 66 detective novels and more than 15 short story collections (especially those featuring Hercule Poirot or Miss Jane Marple), and her successful West End plays.According to the Guinness Book of World Records, Christie is the best-selling novelist of all time.
Her books-usually filled with psychologically spurned crimes, unsuspected ending (PLEASE read Murder of Roger Ackroyd!), and overall insights into the human mind-are masterpieces in the loftiest sense of the word.
Her life as a child-happy, carefree-melds into the life of an adult, beginning with the joyfulness of love and ends with despair.
Not only is this the tale of a girl named Celia though, this is the story of Agatha Christie.
Overall this book is a good read.
It shows the deep emotions of the characters that reflect the feelings of the writer.
It shows how, in the end, we will all have to confront that Gun Man...
This book is actually an autobiography of Agatha with only the names of the characters changed. If you read about Agatha's life, you find the same reflected in this book. She has also explained her so-called "mysterious disappearance" in it. How she must have felt on being betrayed! Excellent character study, as always.
My favourite non-thriller EVER. Although I understand that many people will not be able to relate to it. But if you can, it will take you on the most amazing journey ever, and you will be left thinking about it till 2 in the morning (Yes)Agatha Christie just surpassed herself..AGAIN
I know I've read all of Agatha Christie's non-detective novels but could not remember any of them except Absent in the Spring which I liked very much and read twice.
This part of the book is filled with humor and very convincing accounts of how a shy child is unable to express her emotions and is often misunderstood.The rest of the book is more personal and dark, because of the raw emotions which came from actual experiences in Christie's life.
These events aren't in the novel, but Celia's betrayal and her husband demanding a divorce, causing her mental and physical anguish, certainly are.
It seems almost all of the events in the fictional Celia's life are mirrored by Christie's.
I love Agatha Christie's crime novels - I have loved them since I was about 8 years old.I read this, one of her psychological romance novels as it was her official Facebook page's Book of the Month and I had never read one of them before so I thought I would give it a chance.I have to say it was one of the most annoying and tortuous reads I have done for some considerable time.Agony - plain agony.The opening is interesting enough, with the painter finding a lady sitting on the cliff top seat looking out of the sea, and realising that she is preparing herself to take her own life.
I definitely think that knowledge improved my experience of the book.The book is framed as the life story of Celia, as told to a sympathetic artist who has just prevented her from killing herself.The main character, Celia, is Agatha Christie.
Numerous happenings that are described in Celia's life are repeated almost verbatim in Christie's autobiography.
I really enjoyed this book, coming into it with the understanding that it was an attempt to articulate the factors that fed in to one massively life changing event.
When I read the essential autobiography be Jared Cade (11 Missing Days), I discovered that famed mystery writer Agatha Christie wrote under a pseudonym.
While AC wrote fictional mysteries, Mary Westmacott wrote more out of life, her life.
Once I got that far - starting at page 27 - I simply could not put the book down!It's not a very easy read but definitely very understandable, after all, it was written and first published in 1934 - a time when writing and understanding as well as a women's place in society was very different.
It is as different from her other novels as can be - a plain, simple story of a woman's life, no twists and turns but captivating nonetheless.
The style of it reminds me a bit of the classics written by women's writers.Celia, is rescued from a suicide attempt by an u named painter and then proceeds to recount her life's journey to him over the course of one night.
What I especially enjoyed was her account of her relationship with her mother and her mother's character - loving her daughter and always a friend.
It did seem a bit boring towards the middle but overall I enjoyed it.
Do not expect any twists or major happenings but a lovely simple tale.
Larraby a successful portrait painter meets an enigmatic young woman on a park bench.Somehow sensing she is in danger of committing suicide he races back and tries to talk to her and in so doing we hear a tragic story, the story of her life.Celia has been badly beaten around by life, hurt and abused by her husband she is suffering a mental breakdown and who better than a virtual stranger to confess the deepest, darkest secrets of her past?
Reading this book made me into tears for so long, but it had me at the end. I felt all through the story that I was reading Agatha's own story told under a pen name. And in the end I went and checked it up and it was TRUE. I found many traits similar to me with the main Character Celia, also the gunman represent something in my life as in hers but I can't put my finger on it. The book saved me, or at least I hope it did, like the artist did with her at the end.
A rather insipid novel about an overly naive woman who (after a few chapters of filler) finds herself in a dreadful marriage to a rather obnoxious man.The only thing that really made this book have any real interest is because it's possible that Agatha Christie was describing her own first marriage in this book.
While I liked Agatha Christie I did not enjoy this story. It was depressing, and the protagonist never felt as if she fit in her world and she contemplates suicide. Allegedly, this is supposed to be based on Agatha Christie’s life. I hope not!
Very interesting when you think it is a more or less an autobiography. Also interesting as a description of woman situation in a certain social class and time. To be read if you are an Agatha fan.
3,5*
Kinda boring.
