https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/743414.Europe_and_the_Faith
Under the umbrella theme of Europe and the Faith, here a few main streams of thought.One of them is the historicity of early Christianity and its connection to Roman Catholicism and Ienjoyed Belloc asking the then contemporary early 20th century reader, to take into consideration certain 19th century events to show how close some of the early Church Fathers and the writings supporting Catholic doctrine were to the ministry of Christ.
Then Belloc disputes the notion of the Roman Empire's Fall and argues that it was simply a transition into different cultures without that much disruption.
ENGLISH: A good historic support to the assertion that the Catholic Church is the soul of the Western Civilization.
However, Belloc's position should be slightly corrected taking into account the work of Christopher Dawson, who I think understood a little better the situation.
Anyway, this book provides a great history lesson.ESPAÑOL: Una buena base histórica para la afirmación de que la Iglesia Católica es el alma de la Civilización Occidental.
Sin embargo, la posición de Belloc debe ser ligeramente corregida teniendo en cuenta la obra de Christopher Dawson, quien creo que entendió un poco mejor la situación.
De todos modos, este libro es una gran lección de historia.
He also demonstrates quite persuasively that historians ought to appreciate the precise role of the Catholic Church in those early centuries whether they happen to hold that faith or not.
The modern reader will appreciate how the views Belloc tries to discredit continue to influence the way history is taught in our universities today, so the century between its publication and the present does not render it out-of-date.Belloc also, as is his custom, makes bold and memorable statements that perhaps do his work a disservice.
This is a good book.
I generally agree with Belloc's idea, that the Roman Empire didn't fall, it was just transformed into the Roman Catholic Church, and that the Reformation was a bad thing--Belloc calls it a disaster.
But the study of history and especially archaeology have progressed since 1920, so there are some things Belloc can't take into account.
While this is done by more modern historians, I think Belloc overstates his case.
So I agree with the general idea of the book, if not with some of the specifics.
It's a good companion-piece to The Everlasting Man by G.
K. Chesterton (Belloc's friend).
The author sees the Reformation as a "disaster" in the sense that it fractured and splintered the unity of the Church and as a result, it fractured European culture and civilization.
Belloc sees the reunification of Europe around the Catholic Church as its only hope for re capturing its moral greatness as well as the greatness of its civilization.
This book challenged much of my concept of the Reformation as well as gave me a new appreciation for the role of the Catholic Church in preserving Europe's civilization and culture.
Original take on the Roman fundament of Western culture.Belloc was a British Catholic writer of French descent.
After the fall of the Roman empire, the Roman culture didn’t just vanish, it lived on in the Roman Catholic Church.
Modern writers like Nietzsche have argued that Christianity was, in fact, a slave religion, inherited mostly from Judaic culture; Nietzsche hated Christianity because, according to him, it was insufficiently Hellenized/Romanized!
However, Belloc does take some partisan Catholic positions, like linking Germanic/Northern Europe’s Protestant turn to its barbarous non-Roman culture and declaring capitalism to be evil and exploitative.
This is an awesome treatise on how Europe was formed on the basis of both the Church and the Roman Empire. It corrects some misconceptions I had of how the barbarians took over the Roman Empire--essentially, these gained roles in the Roman Army and later became administrators on the frontiers as the central Roman authority crumbled. Outside barbarian invasions were always defeated--by barbarians who had been assimilated into the Empire.A very good book to read alongside Belloc's "The Servile State."
Enjoyed this book, but not as much as I had hoped. It was hard to follow at times due to its more dated writing style. I have not read any other Hillaire Belloc. G.K. Chesterton can also take a good deal of concentration, but I enjoy his sharp wit and amazing ability to cut to the heart of an issue more. I didn't find that with Belloc, at least in this book.
The bad parts are laughable, but the good parts (which make up the majority of the book) are glorious.
The great Hilaire Belloc in his most paradigmatic work. Brilliant, fascinating and profoundly important for healing our troubled culture. For there will be no healing without understanding our roots … the roots of Christendom.I am hoping to review this book in-depth soon at my own website devoted to Christendom, a website inspired by Belloc in large measure … Lovers of Belloc may be interested in my archive of posts and reviews dedicated to Belloc:http://corjesusacratissimum.org/tag/h...My review when finished be found there - and there are numerous other reviews of Belloc's writings there already.
Very interesting viewpoint. Starts pretty good and then devolves into... I'm not sure what, but definitely more of a rant against the Bible's sufficiency, against capitalism and a defense of feudalism and the Renaissance as the height of human civilization. The Renaissance was pro-christian and the Reformation a return to barbarism? I need to find out if this book was written in response to another treatise and read that. perhaps that would give better context to the case, though there is no recovering the twisted reasoning of the end of ths book.
If the reader isn't catholic I don't think they will be convinced of the author's views but I think every reader- be they catholic or not- will appreciate learning to see how a European catholic would view their own region's history.
A useful easy read, especially for those who live in a culture with a non or anti catholic view of history.
However it is a very sweeping and generalized history so if the reader has a specific question about Catholic history or is short on time I would recommend it except if read alongside other more in-depth and focused Catholic history books.
The book takes a rather sweeping look at history. He goes through each period selecting certain things to help make his point. He desires for brevity as opposed to unnecessary depth. As for a history book, it would work well in a Western Civ course, especially for those in a home school situation. If I were a parent, I would give this to my child as supplementary reading because it corrects so much erroneous thoughts and assumptions regarding European history.
A brilliant though rather short work and in its finality I found to be quite prophetic (this work was written in the early twentieth century). A book that really re -gears the mind in matters of Western history, properly focusing one's understanding of the origins of our Western civilization and where it's heading.
Needs to be re-bound as a hardcover
A masterpiece of Troll History. ;)
