https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26834513-the-fall-of-japan
For those of us fortunate enough to have not lived through World War II, much of that history is a blur. The war in Europe is usually better covered in high school history than the war in the Pacific. For many of us, all we retained (or maybe were taught) was:1. Japan executed a sneak attack on Pearl Harbor.2. The USA finally got its revenge and ended the war by obliterating Hiroshima and Nagasaki four years later.Perhaps, you had some additional history that went like this:1. Japan executed a s
The USA finally got its revenge and ended the war by obliterating Hiroshima and Nagasaki four years later.Perhaps, you had some additional history that went like this:1.
We get to know the people and what each of them brings to an event.This is a great example of how history can be written to be both informative and engaging.
I am a reader of WWII history and suddenly realized that the majority of my choices were set in Europe and North Africa, and very few in the Pacific theater.
We learn the personalities of the Japanese military leadership, part of whom knew the war was lost and part who wanted to fight it out to the end in the home islands.
We learn the power of Emperor Hirohito when the chips are down and he announces that surrender is the only choice.
This is my second time with this book; the first was the Kindle Edition. This audio book is read well by Mark Ashby and at about 11 hours on one MP3 disk has proved to be a great way to remind me of some of Craig's key insights. His writing and Ashby's reading are a good match.
This book covers in great detail the last two months of the war in the Pacific through the signing of the surrender documents on the Missouri. It was written in 1967 and has languished in my library for many a year. Page 263 has a reference to a captured B25 crew that was involved in the 1942 bombing of Tokyo. Their trial was documented in a 1944 movie starring Dana Andrews. All had thought they were executed but four were found alive in China at the end of the war.
This is not an "I can't put this book down!" book. I gave it 4 stars because it gave insight into the final days of WWII. It tells the 'story behind the story.' If you are a history buff and like WWII in particular you will like this book. I am and I did!
This detailed and very readable book tells the story of the final weeks of the war from both the Japanese and American perspectives with great sensitivity.
The Japanese perspective is particularly valuable, as it is rarer to find, at least in English-language accounts of the war.Craig does take a definite stance on two issues that have been subjects of controversy since the end of the war: whether the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki were necessary to speed the surrender of Japan; and what was the responsibility of Emperor Hirohito for the war's beginning and end.
Great book - very highly recommended! A short overview of the Pacific theater and a fascinating play-by-play of how the surrender actually happened in Japan. May fuel extreme anger toward Japan for their actions and justifications for those actions during the war.I am taking any and all WWII book recommendations after our visit to the WWII museum in NOLA!
Part of the reason why I wanted to read it was because I have read a ton of World War II books, but mostly from the German or allied powers side.
What I thought made this novel incredibly effective is how the author transitioned from both points of view of the major Generals involved.
Truly a solid book that I believe everyone should read to get a better insight into the part of World War II that often gets overshadowed by the German campaign.
Because of this, there is much I would like to know about those final years in the Pacific, and this book does a good job of adding to my understanding.William Craig does spend time on the development of the atomic bomb, and the process (which occurred in three different secret locations in the states), the intense secrecy around not only the building, but the transportation of the materials to the Pacific, and the training of the pilots and planes involved in dropping them.
This is a reprint of the original that was published a number of years ago.I found this book to an interesting read.
It is well researched and I learned several details about the end of World War II in the Pacific that has not surfaced in other books that I have read on the subject.Craig does a very good job of covering the end from both sides, the American and the Japanese, without the hyperbole and unnecessary drama that I have seen in other books.I recommend this book to anyone who is interested in American History and in particular the events surrounding the end of World War II in the Pacific.
After reading "Unbroken", I wanted to learn more about the Japanese theater of war.
I found this dusty book on my shelf, one that I had inherited from my father (since inherited is a nicer word than 'stolen') and not touched in 20 years.Since this book was written in the 60s, I was afraid it would be very dry and not too engaging.
In truth, Craig's narrative is very compelling as he covers everything from the development and detonation of the bomb to the attempted coup and final surrender of Japan.
Filled with many interesting facts and story lines, I truly enjoyed this book and the history lesson that it provided.
Great readWell presented examination of this period of history. Highly recommend. Mr. Craig did an excellent job condensing his research into a very readable text.
I have been on a sort of mission to enhance my understanding of World War 2 beyond the traditional school house narratives we all know, and much further than the Hollywood films have taught us.
I particularly enjoyed the even handed ness displayed with regard to the Japanese Generals and politicians, especially given that this book was published in 1967, before our current trend of revisionism.
Any serious student of World War 2 history, and particularly those seeking to understand the specific events at the end as they pertain to the Japanese, must consider this mandatory reading.
One thing I learned from this book was that sad to say, if Truman hadn't approved the order to drop those atomic bombs, the Pacific war would probably have continued.
Those bombs forced the Japanese empire to confront reality and agree to unconditional surrender as the results of the nuclear denotation was beyond horrible: an entire city destroyed, thousands dead, corpses everywhere and more Japanese citizens suffering lingering deaths, almost becoming real life zombies due to radiation.It was also interesting to learn about the jockeying being made by members of the Japanese Imperial military to force a coup so that the war can continue (despite the nuclear bombs wiping out Nagasaki and Hiroshima) and also on who's going to attend the surrender ceremonies aboard the US ship where MacArthur was waiting.Really interesting reading and good writing by William Craig.
Essential history for all AmericansRecent revisionist historians have portrayed President Truman's decision to drop the atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki as an entirely political move to keep Soviet Russia from developing a foothold in Japan and of no real military value, certainly of no military necessity.
This thoroughly researched and documented account of the forces operating in Japan at the end of the war makes it very clear that an Allied invasion of that country would have been a real bloodbath, not only for the Allies, but even moreso for the Japanese people themselves, for whom their controlling military powers had no concern, or if they had any concern for the people per se, that concern paled in comparison to the concern for their "honor" and pride.
What is tragic is that we were facing an enemy that did not want to surender, at least from a military perspective, while diplomats walked a frayed tighrope in attempting to make the emporer aware of what was really happening.
The big question of whether we needed to use the atomic weapons as leverage is partially answered in Mr. Craig's book.
I gues if I had been one of the Marines that had to invade the homeland of an enemy that would not quit the answer would have been quite obvious!
Given the fine-grained information present in this book, I would have never thought it was written in 1967.
It's a long, ling read as a result.I had to pick up and put this book down a couple times (hence the 2 month read time) because it's just so information dense.
It's an impressive read.My one complaint (if one could call it as such) is that the book just kind of ends.
The ending of this book feels like a weak place to finish, but maybe that was the point?Regardless, if you are interested in history (specifically around Japan and WWII), you will be hard-pressed to find a better source.
A stunning read; great page-turning history of the last days of Japan and WW2.
If you think we dropped the Atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki and the Japanese just surrendered, you need to read this book.
What I loved too was the authors story - here is a guy who won $42K in a quiz show in the US in 1958, which was a sizeable winning back then.
He used the money to change his life getting a masters in history at Columbia University and then travelling to the locations and penning two great books - this one and 'Enemy at the Gates'; the story of the Battle of Stalingrad.
Craig did a fantastic job describing the last months of Japan up until its surrender in late 1945.
The descriptions of last minute suicides and assassinations in the Japanese corridors of power as the US forces closed in on the Japanese islands will leave an indelible mark on the reader.
Craig highlights many forgotten facts, such as the frailty and insecurity of Hirohito when the pressure was really on, and dispels many myths, such as both atomic bombs being Truman's first and only resort.
The US actually originally planned a large scale land invasion of Japan to commence in early 1946.
Ugly But Necessary?Until I read THIS account I had been in a quandary about whether it was necessary to drop the Atom bombs on an obviously defeated Japan. This book suggests (with authentic investigation and documentation) that even after the horrific devastation and human destruction; there still remained a significant number of kamikaze like fanatical military personnel OPPOSED to the surrender and ready to fight.I read this book between Memorial day and the 4th of July. It will forever keep me mindful of the true significance and monumental debt of gratitude we owe to the United States Military VETERANS.
Book gave a very good account of the last days of the war in the Pacific.
Though the surrender is mostly shown from the Japanese point of view it does alow the reader to see glimpes of the American perspective during this period.
I found it interesting how the first soldiers into Japan at Atsugi airbase half expected to be murdered when they got of the plan as part of the advanced party to the occupation forces by fanatical Japanese who would not except surrender.
To their relief they were shown respect by the surrendered Japanse in a very tense situation.
Highly recommended book for those interest in World War II history.
Breezy, personal-level accountCraig's writing gets behind the scenes of the decisions that led to Japan's surrender and the beginnings of the occupation. His account of the back-and-forth communication between Japan and the Allies through radio news was worth the price alone. The interim between V-J Day and the formal surrender and the steps needed to prepare for an occupation on both sides are covered very well.
Very interesting look into the mentality of Japan at the end of WWII. Even though they knew they were beaten much of the military wanted to fight on. For those that criticize the US for dropping the bomb this story should convince them that without the demonstration of awesome force the bomb unleashed Japan might have fought on for many more years. Even the bomb did not fully convice the japanese to put down their weapons and surrender.
Great read, it feels more like a novel than a historical account of the end of WWII. Having read other books on this subject I found this to have new information. The descriptions of the destruction of Hiroshima and Nagasaki were very detailed and the author gives you a more personal account as he focuses on individuals who were there and he describes them including their names. Lastly, I liked at the way Craig looks at events from all possible angels.
The book is generally good but at times the author has speculated on other people's thoughts a lot. Also, the description about US, and Japanese, conduct appears to be a narrative favoring the winning side. Overall, the book captures deep-rooted tension on the Japanese side as the atomic attack unfolded and how the overall direction on the war was affected by national and military attitudes in Japan.
The Fall of Japan is a well written and thrilling account of the last days-and hours of the second world war, told from both American and Japanese perspectives. From the deadly fighting on the island of Okinawa to the dropping of the second atomic bomb, William Craig describes in vivid detail the final stages of one of the most deadliest conflicts of the 20th century-and the aftermath.
WWII ends with both a bang & A WimplerMost of Americans know of the ending of WWII in Europe. This book tells how it ended in Japan. It explains some of the culture that was Japan in the 1940's < There are lessons to consider in the 21 St century.
Tremendous history lessonThis writing of the important end to a cruel war is filled with the detail of leaders in wartime. Mr. Craig has done a great service in documenting these events in a very understandable book.
Awesome! Lots of educational information. Some details I had never heard of before now. I shall read this again.
A good account of the last days of the war in the Pacific. A must read for any one interested in the evolution of the politics in the Asian area.
