https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29056083-harry-potter-and-the-cursed-child
So I really tried not to compare this to the HP books or look at it as an intense fan, but it's pretty underwhelming no matter how you approach it...The story picks up at the end of the Deathly Hallows epilogue where Harry, Ron, Hermione, Ginny, and Malfoy are seeing their kids leave on the Hogwarts Express.
And if you're going to make the plot that big of a free-for-all, why not have Snape go back to the orphanage and kill Tom Riddle as a kid like that youtube video did??!In the end it felt more like a roundup of characters and events they thought fans would want to see instead of a true, original Hogwarts story for Albus Severus and Scorpius.
It does not feel like an eighth Harry Potter book at all; there's a real disconnect between this play and the other seven novels.
I don't know why people are saying "it's so obvious JKR didn't write most of this" because I think her style is all over it - the very fact that this play (which is meant to be viewed on stage) can be just as easily read like a book tells me JKR had a lot of input.Also, it's funny.
It was just alright.I know I gave this 4 stars, but to be honest, J.K. Rowling can write a dictionary with Harry Potter illustrations and I'd probably give it 4 stars, so my rating is almost irrelevant here, given my extreme bias.The thing is, it was cute, it was sweet, it was entirely nostalgic to see the old crew again, but I hated the play format.
As a person who grew up with Harry Potter, and who is in her early 30s now, I feel like I grew up with Harry Potter and the crew, and with the advent of this book, I have, in fact, grown old with them.
So, the way I see it, Harry Potter and the Cursed Child is a lovely gift to every Harry Potter fan out there who has hoped and waited a long time to see their wizard friends again.Though the plot holes are very visible and spread throughout the story, they make for charming and heartfelt conversations between characters, so I didn’t mind them all that much.The best thing about this #8 Harry Potter is how nostalgic it makes the reader feel.
Now this was a real shame.
There’s no real expression or sense of urgency.
The plot is feasible, even if it felt a little forced, but the characters were just poor.
The new ones aren’t so bad, but the old characters, Harry, Ron and Hermione, were barely themselves.
Ron felt like a piece of furniture that seemed to enjoy inserting several badly times jokes.
How can he identify himself as a bad farther?
How can he believe that he had no farther figure in his own life?
Harry Potter would make an excellent farther.
Update:+1 star for (view spoiler)[Scorpius Malfoy, the precious angel child that I didn't expect to love so much (hide spoiler)]-1 star for (view spoiler)[the trolley witch...I mean, are you kidding me?
(hide spoiler)]-1 star for (view spoiler)[Rose Granger-Weasley being in it for like 2 seconds (hide spoiler)]and -1 star for (view spoiler)[the Time Turner inconsistencies, no Teddy Lupin, the fact that we are supposed to believe Bellatrix & Voldemort had a freakin' daughter, and every other aspect of this play that basically disregards fans' investment in one of the most influential series of books ever...
I'm not going to rate this. I didn't hate it. I didn't love it. It's just a thing that exists and I'm accepting it for what it is. *edit: I didn't mean for this review to come off as shady as it did. I'm going to make a video discussing my feelings further. I'm happy that we got to visit this world again, but it just wasn't what I was expecting it to be. If you LOVED this book, that's okay! I'm happy that you enjoyed it.
Let's be honest - this read like badly written fan fiction
I’d give anything to be going back."Final official review of the script and the play:I've read the book first.
Fantastic and scary and funny and lovely and just so very magical.If you want more details read the (view spoiler)[Scorpius and Albus are just perfect.
Overall we have an amazing cast.But then you get a whole theatre covered in magical ink and runes, you get freakishly scary Dementors flying over your head and transporting people through the air.
(hide spoiler)]One of the most amazing things is that the actors actually took their time to sign loads and loads of books and photographs after the play (apart from Harry that is).
This review contains *mild spoilers*.I've waited for this particular story for what feels like ages, and words cannot even describe for how grateful I am that it finally exists in my hands. Harry Potter and the Cursed Child continues the wondrous magical world that we all know and love.The story starts out at King's Cross with the original trio preparing their school-age children to board the train to start their first year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.It's at this time that Ha
Harry Potter and the Cursed Child continues the wondrous magical world that we all know and love.The story starts out at King's Cross with the original trio preparing their school-age children to board the train to start their first year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.It's at this time that Harry and his son, Albus, share a nice father-son moment:“Albus: Dad .
I just wish you weren’t my dad.”Harry and Albus are trying to reach each other here, both are failing.As past and present fuse ominously, both father and son learn the uncomfortable truth: sometimes darkness comes from unexpected places.The Cursed Child answered a lot of topics that had been left unanswered in my mind, and it makes my heart tighten just thinking about everything.“Harry: And I’ve locked away the map.
Reviewed by: Rabid ReadsRULE FOR SPOILERS: if it's in the first 10%, and therefore (in most cases) available for scrutiny from undecided readers in the FREE downloadable preview, IT'S NOT A SPOILER.That being said, a LOT of things happen--IMPORTANT things--in the first five percent, let alone ten percent of HARRY POTTER AND THE CURSED CHILD, so if you'd rather go into your read without significant prior knowledge, leave this review immediately.That's the only warning you're going to get.In my experience there are two types of hardcore fans for any given series:1.
It's finally HERE!!! HP FOR LIFE!!My post on Hello Beautiful Book BlogWHO'S EXCITED?!?OMGGGGGGGIt's going to be published on HARRY'S BIRTHDAY!!!! OH HAPPY DAYYYYFROM TIME MAGAZINE ONLINE: "There’s good news for Harry Potter fans who won’t be able to make it to London to see the theatrical production of Harry Potter and the Cursed Child: the play will be published in book form immediately after its debut.The script, written by Jack Thorne and based on a story by J.K. Rowling, Thorne and John Tiff
HP FOR LIFE!!My post on Hello Beautiful Book BlogWHO'S EXCITED?!?OMGGGGGGGIt's going to be published on HARRY'S BIRTHDAY!!!!
As Pottermore describes, “While Harry grapples with a past that refuses to stay where it belongs, his youngest son Albus must struggle with the weight of a family legacy he never wanted.”The play premieres on July 30, and the book will be released July 31, which just so happens to be The Chosen One’s birthday."
After years of wishing and waiting........AT LAST! My precious!! *said in Gollum voice*UPDATED after reading: NO NO NO NO. Terrible writing I can let slide (it's a play so I would expect the acting to salvage that) but the plot was pointless, the characters were, well, out of character, and it feltHorrible like bad fan fiction....no
CONGRATS TO HARRY POTTER AND THE CURSED CHILD FOR WINNING THE 2016 GOODREADS CHOICE AWARDS FOR BEST FANTASY!!! Bloody Hell!I freaking cried. I was afraid I wasn't going to like this book but I did and I damn cried. This is a SPOILER FREE review so I can't tell you what made me cry. Even though this is about the kids and all of our loves are older, they wrote the book in a way that we get to have some memories of certain things. And my favorite character made me cry again! I really hope they put
Even though this is about the kids and all of our loves are older, they wrote the book in a way that we get to have some memories of certain things.
Although, it might be weird seeing other people playing the parts.
I loved the friendship between Albus, Harry's son and Scorpius, Draco's son.
I didn't like some of the parts Ron played, he seemed like an idiot but he's Ron and I love Ron. Of course most of you already know it's written in a play format.
I don't think I have ever read a play before, it seems like I would remember.
They're back..One More time..19 years later.In a different style..Harry Potter & The Cursed 8th Book DRACO:  I don’t care what you did or who you saved, you are a constant curse on my family, Harry Potter. A 'Play', of friendship, courage & anti-prejudice as before..ANDMarital relations, Father/Son issues.A new Story goes farther than ever..travelling back & forth in time..Then back to where it all began..To close the circle.Once & for all. HARRY:  The Boy Who Lived. How many peo
as soon as he started his year, this was the least of his troubles.Surprisingly befriended with Scorpius Malfoy, surprisingly hates Hogwarts…Surprisingly hates being the child of The Boy Who Lived, while many died in his cause.The Father/Son issue in its worst..And before his fourth year starts..Everything happens fast…Harry as Ministry official and Hermione as Minister for Magic seize an illegal last Time Turner..that even more dangerous..Amos Diggory wants his son back...who had been killed by Voldmort in the Triwizard Tournament more than 20 years ago..Albus feels his father's responsible for this death..An attempt to change a minor misfortune of the past leads into a massive , colossal damage to the present and the future..And even turns into a horrible Dystopia.It's like The Butterfly Effect… Days of Future PastAgain it's a story of the value of Friendship… The wrong of Prejudice...
Seriamente, qualcuno avrebbe dovuto prenderlo a calci, un sacco di calci in culo un sacco di volte, magari si sarebbe fatto più furbo.Per quel che riguarda Harry… No, io mi rifiuto di anche solo pensare che questo sia Harry.
(hide spoiler)]Minimal moments that made me happy: Basically, I think there are so many people that loved everything about this book, but as I read this book very critically and found a lot of faults, the parts I loved seemed pretty minimal so I've grouped them here.-Beginning: I loved that the story started at the epilogue of Deathly Hallows.
(view spoiler)[ It's stated in this book that the time turner Albus & Scorpius use DOES allow them to go back further than hours.
SPOILER FREE VIDEO REVIEW: https://youtu.be/WUFTFkyDHlY2.5* (I think)So here's the deal.
I just felt like Harry Potter's story ended where it had to end.
The questions that were left unanswered kept the story alive as I would imagine what might be going on in their lives as adults.
This answers all those questions and then some.
I wanted to rate this higher but I think 2.5 is as high as I can go.
The story had cringe worthy moments and honestly felt like fan fiction.
Might do a video review so I can go more into depth because I definitely have more to say.
I want others who wish to go in blind like I did to have that chance, and I don't want to be the one who spoils it for them.Instead, I'm going to talk about feelings.I remember the sinking sensation I had right after finishing Deathly Hallows for the first time - though that was enhanced by a combination of no sleep (midnight release party) and also being an eighteen-year-old-girl who just had her emotions ripped out and then torn apart by the lovely Ms Rowling.
I enjoyed this, but it also felt very unnecessary. Barely anything was gained by the end of the story due to all the (view spoiler)[TIME TRAVEL (hide spoiler)] but whatever. I would KILL to see the play because I cannot comprehend how all of that would work on a stage, and I'm glad I read this, but it's definitely borderline fanfiction in my mind. It was like watching A Very Potter Musical, but not quite as fun.
I need to accio! this book immediately.Sidenote: can time turners go forward into the future?
Wow! What an experience this was. I loved going back and visiting Hogwarts again.Very enjoyable read. Thank you JK!
3. I knew this wasn’t the eight book, but the script for the play.I love the Harry Potter series so much.
I can’t afford going to London and paying a lot of money in order for some people to validate my opinion.Let’s start of with the things I did like:This felt as if I was reading a book.
I don’t remember him ever talking about it in the books, yet now Harry pretends as if it’s his most precious possession in the entire world.
"How many people have died for the Boy Who Lived?” Cynical Natalie: Beware ye who enter. Here there be spoilers the size of Aragog. Nice Natalie: What are you, narrating a movie? Don't scare them. All major spoilers are hidden, but really, we recommend going into The Cursed Child blind. Drop by after you finish!Cynical Natalie: Alright, let's get down to it. What the flip did we just read? Nice Natalie: A lovely story about family and threads we didn't know needed to be tied up, but made perfec
(hide spoiler)] The brainchild of fanfiction writers.Nice Natalie: I admit it was a weak plot element, but I liked the parallel.
(view spoiler)[Bellatrix wasn't pregnant in the Deathly Hallows.Nice Natalie: Rowling didn't plan on writing an eighth story then.
(hide spoiler)]Nice Natalie: Can't you focus on the good for once?
Nice Natalie: I didn't read it like that.
(hide spoiler)]Cynical Natalie: There are still a lot of inconsistencies.
Rowling said she "getting on a bit" in an interview and Hogwarts got a new headmaster after the Battle.Nice Natalie: She probably didn't want so many new characters.
As you can see on my pre-review, I'm beyond excited for this script book and relive the magic at Hogwarts.
Regardless he's a father, this is not the Harry Potter I knew from books 1-7.
Most of the time I want to crucio his butt for acting impulsively without THINKING TWICE (view spoiler)[Stealing a time turner to travel back time to save Cedric Diggory and the fate changes.
The craziest part I've ever read was about Voldemort (view spoiler)[having a daughter.....with Bellatrix Lestrange?!
Scorpius Malfoy is freaking adorable and props to Draco talking more sense than Harry does.
MORE MAGIC.ACCIO THIS SCRIPT BOOK!I am a happy Potterhead!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
It makes for all the thrills and mystery you come to expect from the Harry Potter universe.Coming back to this series felt like returning to school after a long summer break.
It's silly yet serious, and filled with thrills and intrigue, and most of all fun.But more than any of that, the Harry Potter universe is known for its characters, and in this installment, a couple more can now be mentioned with the best.
Harry's son, Albus, is an outcast--everything Harry isn't, in a bad way, and the two struggle to relate until Albus becomes so isolated he starts falling down the same path that Voldemort did.
Lol.
I HAVE A LOT OF FEELINGS.Here's my vlog of the launch party and my initial thoughts after reading! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sqwyq...
Just going to keep my original pre-review here BC MY FEELINGS ARE THE SAME Although I do have some negative thoughts about it which I'll go into more detail with later, REGARDLESS, I finished this in one sitting and thought it was like, 95% fab
I had been eagerly awaiting Harry Potter and the Cursed Child when I found out that the play would be released in book form.
There was a time when I got a new Potter book on my hands and would stay up all night reading.
That being said, I was determined to read Harry Potter and the Cursed Child before my kids got their hands on it; I easily finished in a few hours and rate this play 3.5 stars.
I am sure this fan fiction version of nineteen years later was magical on the stage.
