https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128770.The_Unvanquished
Ringo is black and Bayard is white in this novel set during the American Civil War (1861-65).
Diverting scenes include Drusilla’s forced marriage to Colonel Satoris, since she had spent a year dressed as a man fighting with his regiment and, naturally, must in that period have surrendered many times to his amorous advances—must in fact be pregnant; any deviation from this presumed narrative being for the many prattling ladies of post-Civil War Jefferson not just hard to believe, but inconceivable.
Faulkner is writing of a time when, with Lincoln just elected, the U.S. was all but torn apart by the slavery issue.
"Ringo said, "And don't yawl worry about Granny.
And them that don't like it can git outer the way or git trompled."There you have two of my favorite characters in Faulkner: Granny, brave, indomitable, pious, stubborn, a strong southern woman to the core.
It's a tale of the end of the Civil War and beyond, told with Faulkner's sly humor and knowledge of the hearts and minds of the people who survived and lived with the aftermath.
This is a good book to start with for those new to William Faulkner, and may be my favorite one yet.
The first stories involve adventures where Bayard and Ringo seem largely unaware of the politics and racial tensions that exist.As the war progresses there are many instances of heroism exhibited by ordinary people--including the young boys and my favorite character, Granny.
Bayard wants an end to violence in their community, and a new code of honor based on law and justice.Although the book has many moral themes throughout, the story also has many humorous and touching episodes that temper the tragic moments.
Even if I struggled with streams of thought or with following the action or with unfamiliarity of Faulkner’s style, there was the ending.
To see him become a symbol of the post-Civil War south in which enmities must be put aside and retribution must stop.
Though I went straight from finishing the book to writing this review, it’s clear that this is one of those books whose genius becomes apparent upon reflection.
I recently had the same experience with The Remains of the Day. Which, though being a three star reading experience, received 5 stars for its genius of execution.
Güneyli bir yazar olmanın verdiği etkiyle iç savaşın güney tarafını daha net çiziyor haliyle.
Ama bana kalırsa bu kitap, Amerikan iç savaşını anlatmaktan ziyade, bütün savaşları ve savaşın götürülerini anlatmasıyla övgüyü hak ediyor.Bir de köle- efendi ilişkisi, aile yapısının kol kırılır yen içinde kalır yapıda olması (ki bunu Ses ve Öfke'de de net bir şekilde görmüştük) bence Faulkner'ın takıntılı olduğu konulardan.
Kitap boyunca sanki ben de kendime yer seçtim, yaşlı kadınlar çocukların arasındaydım, onlarla birlikte yıkımdan arda kalan topraklarda hayatta kalmaya çalıştım.
Kitap bittiğinde tarifsiz bir duygu durumu içindeydim.
The Unvanquished: Faulkner's Civil WarThe Unvanquished was chosen as a group read by . Special thanks to Co-Moderator Co-Moderator Diane Barnes, "Miss Scarlette," for nominating this novel. "The Trail" continues to explore the works of William Faulkner. It is my hope that we will one day complete all of them.  He was besotted with history, his own and those of people around him. He lived within this history, and the history became him.--Robert Penn Warren, speaking of William Faulknerto Jay Pari
The Unvanquished: Faulkner's Civil WarThe Unvanquished was chosen as a group read by .
Special thanks to Co-Moderator Co-Moderator Diane Barnes, "Miss Scarlette," for nominating this novel.
He lived within this history, and the history became him.--Robert Penn Warren, speaking of William Faulknerto Jay Parini, August, 1987, source material for One Matchless Time: A Life of William Faulkner
This review will be temporarily interrupted as a result of my having failed to do something I should have accomplished earlier in the day.
However, with age comes the patience to read Faulkner.
That is, the same novel.
(Actually, it's not a novel at all, but a linked series of short stories with the same characters.) Seeing the Civil War through the eyes of Bayard Sartoris, son of a Southern war hero, and Ringo (short for Marengo), a former family slave who is Bayard's age, was nothing short of brilliant.
In the interstices between the withdrawal of the Southern forces and the return of the Yankees after Appomattox, he fattens like a tick until Bayard and Ringo catch up with him.What draws the boys' revenge is the murder of Bayard's grandmother, Miss Rosa Millard, who is one of Faulkner's most memorable characters.
این کتابِ بیزبان بهراستی زیرِ فشار زورآور مترجمِ دشوارگو و قلنبهنویس تباه شده است. اگر گیراییهایی هم در نسخهی اصلی موجود بوده، از خلال ترجمهی مغلق و پیچیدهی پرویز داریوش، یکسره از میان رفته است. آشفتگی ذهن مترجم را از همان آغاز پیشگفتارش بر کتاب، بهروشنی میتوان دریافت:«اینکه آنگاه که ابزارها سنگی و سنگین هم نبود یا نشده بود، این استعداد عظیم همپالگیانِ ما در خواستن و بهدستآوردن اعمال و خدمات موردنیاز از آنان که همپالگی نیستند، اما در روش یا رفتار یکساناند معمول بود یا نه، آشکار نمیتواند بود. اما
اما بعد از سنگی‌شدن و در طول خط دراز عمر هم‌پالگیان که درهرحال از یک شب تجاوز نکرده است، پس از مدتی آهنین‌شدن ابزارها و آشنایی‌یافتن بیش‌تر و کامل‌تر یا نزدیک‌تر به کامل، زیراکه کمال دراین‌باره هنوز حاصل نشده است، با ریزش باران یا سقوط برف یا وزش باد و لرزۀ زمین یا امکانِ برداشتِ قوت بیش‌تر از بذر مساوی از فرشِ همه‌جاموجود یا آشنایی با همۀ این‌ها، هم‌پالگیان به جنبش درآمدند و به ‌هر طرف که دانستند یا پنداشتند می‌دانند، پیش رفتند.
به ‌هر حال برای ایشان در حد تجربۀ نزدیک به علم بود که آن برداشت افزون‌تر است، یا ریزش باران در آن‌گاه که باید مناسب‌تر است، یا سقوط برف و ممانعت از جریان آب که در عمل همواره یا غالباً متلازم بوده است و با کشتار جنبندگان زیر فرشِ همه‌جاموجود، بستگی بیش‌تر دارد.
When his father comes home from the battlefields Bayard smells something, something that at first he mis-names….“Then I began to smell it again, like each time he returned, like the day back in the spring when I rode up on the drive standing in one of his stirrups - that odor in his clothes and beard and flesh too which I believed was the smell of powder and glory, the elected victorious but know better now: know now to have been only the will to endure, a sardonic and even humorous declining of self-delusion which is not even kin to that optimism which believes that that which is about to happen to us can possibly be the worst which we can suffer.”The sentence structure is often as tortured as the war-ravaged land; the dialect is thick, at times impenetrable.
A fun and strangely dark novel from Faulkner. I like when he allowed himself do some deadpan comedy.
To see the very early years of Bayard Sartoris with his father and Grandmother, the skirmishes with Yankee troops, as well as Granny's clever hoodwinking of same to support those dependent on her during those very hard times has been exciting.
This is my favorite of her moments.She just said "Come"and turned and went on, not toward the cabin, but across the pasture toward the  road.
We knelt in the empty church.She was small between us, little; she talked quiet, not loud, not fast, not  slow;..."I have sinned.
I hereby take their sin upon my conscience....But I did not sin for gain or for greed," Granny said.
An interesting cast of characters; his Father Colonel John Sartoris, Granny Rosa , who steals and resells mules to the Calvary , his cousin Drusilla, who rides in disguise with the soldiers, and his best friend , the recently freed slave Ringo ( who has the books best lines ) That these chapters were submitted by Faulkner to the Saturday Evening Post as serial reads made sense as they never truly came together as one story for me.
I also found Bayard and Ringo's thoughts a little jovial for the situation and subject matter .
Easily my favorite Faulkner!
There are many more to be read, so I have much learn.
The violent death of Grumby was "(he didn't scream, he never made a sound) and the pistol both at the same time was level and steady as a rock." I don't know if that sounds like revenge and the death of a scoundrel to you, but I had to go back and search for the violence just to be sure a death transpired.
Subtle violence with little or no blood!
Compared with everything else I read that was refreshing.
The Unvanquished is a collection of closely connected short stories that focus on the Sartoris family during and immediately following the Civil War. But calling this "a collection" is a bit misleading.
I don't know what Faulkner was thinking when he wrote these stories without later providing some sort of connective work to transform the stories into an actual novel.
Or maybe it was Faulkner (a Modernist at heart) experimenting with the form of the novel.
Anyway, getting back to this book, I've read several of these stories here and there (mostly in the essential The Portable Faulkner).
All the stories are good, mostly previously published in The Saturday Evening Post in the late thirties when he was "stirring the pot" making some quick cash while he worked on Absalom.
You can see why the stories sold- they're suspenseful, dramatic, accessible (not so many of Faulkner's infamous ultra-long sentences) and vivid.
And then it all leads up to the final story, the one Faulkner never sold to the magazines: An Odor of Verbena.
When it was finished, I was that good kind of exhausted you get when you read something particularly powerful.
It's also one of those books that corners you and forces you into liking and loathing most of its characters all at once.Originally a collection of mildly interlocking short stories about the teenage son of a rogue Confederate officer, Faulkner threw these together into one of his best, most accessible stories.
There is so much ambiguity here, moral, political and otherwise that, though it's tempting to dip into it by way of review, I think that any of it would spoil what is an often surprising, funny, and disturbing novel.This one often gets short thrift by Faulknerians or whatever, but I found it one of my faves.
While it probably ranks as a lesser work, in that it doesn't display quite the daring or the virtuosity of novels like 'The Sound and the Fury', 'As I Lay Dying' or 'Light in August', it still stands as a beautiful temptation, because it makes thoughts of his other books shine, and puts you firmly on the hook for what is still to come.
They being the Yankees and the disingenuous to loyalty.This was read from a classics collection of Faulkner books and stories that are grouped by years.
What a treat to read this now for the first time.
But in such a finely detailed form, the read was a flashback to reading in all its pleasures.Over time, because they make you work at it, I will read other Faulkner that I had not visited.
Coupling this with some other dialect and Southern works(and his niece's memoir)just recently absolutely doubled the pleasure, if that's possible.
A Faulkner sentence stretches on and on indefinitely, connected by seemingly purposelessly by numerous ands and semicolons, as if it were attempting to contain everything it possibly could from the scene it describes, both past and future, to the point where almost no action occurs, even when two major characters face each other in an office of law, two pistols drawn; the guns are not shot within the sentence, but rather described as not shot then later remembered to have been shot.
Especially in this collection of action based short stories, which seem to offer little reward for the difficult process of reading them.
Faulkner at his most accessible. A collection of 7 inter-related stories about the Satoris family in The South during the Civil War. Slavery, racism, Yankees and all. The stories started out strong and exciting but gradually dwindled as the book progressed and finally picked up towards the end. I enjoyed the adventure and seeing how Bayard Satoris and slave friend Ringo grew up to be very different men. Yet the commonness and reality of the south are never lost on them. That aspect I consider wonderful character development, in tune with the circumstances. I also really liked the dialect.
Kind of a good book if you want a chill afternoon in the summer. I found this a quick read, but I didn't have much to do today. This book is set in the Civil War and is about the Sartoris in his famous Yoknapatawpha County. Although, this isn't my favorite Faulkner book, I liked the characters like Granny. I liked having read a few Faulkner books now I can see he reuses names from other books. I like how most of his books connect with other books he wrote.
It also has a compact period of time, about ten years in Bayard's life, from the early 1860s to the 1870s, from when he was a young boy in the Civil War until he is a law student at the University of Mississippi.The novel also captures much of what was despicable and admirable about the South.
But by the end of the book, you see the different paths that post-bellum Southern society will push them on; Bayard is clearly the master of the house, Ringo, clearly the servant although still probably the better man.The Unvanquished also explores the plight of the freed slaves, who were not really wanted or welcome in the North after emancipation, and the starvation and other dangers they faced on the road in a South whose white society feared and did not welcome them.

The sequel to Sartoris, published a decade later. Great account of Southern women in the rebel army and at home stealing horses from the Yankees. Or maybe it's mules: Faulkner also has a fine short story or novella about horse-traders, Spotted Horses. Read this half a century ago, so I shall avoid spoilers by having forgotten most of it. Doesn't seem to be on my shelf anymore, either. Time seems to eat books, which are his* enemy and contradiction.*Father T
Just shoot me! I get it, I get it. William Faulkner is "one of the greats" a "lead in the canon of American History." However, I cannot bring myself to appreciate his work. The only reason I made it all the way through the book was because I was forced to read it for a literature course several years ago. I didn't see the "art" in it. I just felt tortured.
That the narrative sometimes borders on impenetrable, not so much in The Unvanquished, as much as in Absalom, Absalom and his many of his other novels, forces the reader to fixate on the prose, delve deeply into the dark and unfathomable aspects of human nature and mirrors the sometimes inscrutability of life.
And everyone in Faulkner’s novels seems to be representative of an idea or concept useful as a device to create a world where the forces of the characters’ inner natures collide and conflict with the mores and ethics of their times.
When word comes that the Yankees are freeing all the slaves, Ringo and Bayard have a hard time understanding just what this means.
It follows the story of young Bayard Sartoris and his friend and shadow, Ringo, as the army of the North burns its way through 1860’s Mississippi.One of the amazing things about Faulkner’s writing is his ability to infuse readers with so much drama and information without them being aware of it, much like we are unaware of the air we breathe, or fish the water they swim in.
Don’t want to give too much away, but after peeking at the little bio of Faulkner in the front of the book, Faulkner is probably recounting stories he heard as a child from folks who lived through the Civil War and Reconstruction (parents, grandparents), at least as young, attentive children.
This book is made up of 7 stories, the first 6 of which were published individually while Faulkner was working on Absalom, Absalom!.
The stories are sequential, starting early in the Civil War and ending about 10 years later.
I assume this is the same family as in Faulkner's first novel, Sartoris, which was later published in a more complete form as Flags in the Dust.
Granny found a way to relieve the suffering of her family and other families.
On her knees in church: "I did not sin for revenge; I defy You or anyone to say I did.
I sinned first for justice.
As an examination of what life was really like in the South during and after the Civil War, you can't beat it.And as an examination of the strain of conforming to Southern womanhood ideals of purity and virtue, you don't get much more devastating than what happens to Drusilla.Even though the book is ostensibly about Bayard going from boy to man against the backdrop of war, once Drusilla arrives on the scene, he becomes second fiddle.
Drusilla's life would make a great movie, if only it weren't so damn tragic.The scenes where the town womenfolk force her to put on a dress and force Sartoris to marry her to save her virtue...
Absalom!", I turned to this in the set of four Faulkner novels that I had checked out from the library.
It's a classic example of Southern Gothic writing and I think it should be read in conjunction with Margaret Mitchell's "Gone With the Wind".
Where GWTW focuses on a rather revisionist idealization of slavery and reconstruction in the South with a very thin slice of one person's possible truth, "The Unvanquished" really comes across as broadly believable and more universally true.The characters are, like all of Faulkner's creations, unique and compellingly imperfect.
