https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15054.Written_on_the_Body
The pointedly genderless narrator, having wandered through the nooks and crannies of various male and female lovers, falls head over heels for Louise, and, when foolish enough to lose her, spends roughly a third of the book singing paeans to her entire body.
If you've ever been stupid in love with someone, you can sympathize with narrator x, and appreciate Winterson's matchless style.
Definitely a book you've got to be in the right mood for, by which I mean if you're in an unhappy relationship or you aren't seeing anyone and wish you were, or God help you just got dumped, stay the hell away.
Another aspect that I found remarkable was the middle section of the novel, which is devoted to create an ode to the body of the lover, some sort of poetic exaltation about every inch of the beloved’s flesh, even her cells and tissues, presenting them as virgin territories to discover, to bask in, and finally, to conquer.Why my temperate response, then?
In addition, the narrator’s point of view is contemplative and locked within his/her version of events, and even though the novel is replete with memorable quotes, I was a bit overwhelmed with the exuberant stylistic resources employed to draw the narrator’s inner world.
Giovanni’s empty room shook me a thousand times more than Winterson’s veneration of a lover’s body.
For example, the main character is not only nameless (I've seen that before) but is an 'every-person': Winterson doesn't tell us if they are male or female.
Quite a feat for a book replete with sensual body worshipping between lovers.
The effect is powerful - the reader can put themselves in the place of the narrator, or insert whatever gender they see, it being secondary to the train wreck of LOVE that takes centre stage.Our main character has fallen in love with a woman, who is married to a man.
It is full of scalding truths about love, marriage and infidelity.
Every single one of her short novels is a work of art, beautiful and painfully true while magically exploring the limits of reality.I read The Passion and thought I would not like it, because I don't do historical fiction.
This weekend I started the process with Written On The Body, which I remembered only vaguely, thinking I had liked it despite not being fond of love stories.
Picking up the recurring themes of desire, passion, and deceit, it explores the nature of love against all odds, against rational thinking, against one's own body.The main idea is to describe the complete surrender a person experiences when he or she loves unconditionally, and how that leaves traces, not only on the soul, but on the body itself.
Knowing the story brings you closer.
The burn mark on her hand from when she touched the hot stove… the freckles that dot the small of his back and look like Orion… that little heart on her hip that few people know about… the fillings in his mouth that you scan with your tongue… So many things that happened before you met are imprinted on her body to form a thousand memories.
'Written on the Body' is a beautifully written and powerful story about all of the pleasure and pain of loving, the cruelty of not loving enough and everything in between.
I was reading thru some of the reviews for this book.
I love the narrator.
This book is about love, relationships, loss, and is a bit hope filled at the end.
Not a lot of pages and would have finished it in just 3-4 hours had it not been for it's language lending itself to my own experiences in relationships and thoughts about love.
The reading of this book was competing with nature all day.
Only when the day settled could I concentrate enough to finish it up.
All in all, my life is richer for having read this book.
Her artistry makes my mouth drop open.
The most poetic, passionate, erotic book, it sits on my shelf with Duras' The Lover and Rikki Ducornet's The Word Desire and Anne Carson's The Beauty of the Husband.
A meditation on sensual life and the meaning of love.
As Carson said, 'Beauty is what makes sex, sex." A lover of undetermined gender describing a relationship with a married woman.
What deft ability to capture our thoughts about love.
For what is writing besides capturing thoughts that belong to all of us, so that we can recognize ourselves, undestand ourselves, and perhaps, each other.
Every thoughtful book about love makes us better lovers, I think.
Can love have texture? It is palpable to me, the feeling between us, I weight it in my hands the way I weight your head in my hands. It gives me a loose-limbed confidence to know you'll be there. I'm expected.There's continuum. There's freedom. Written On The Body is more than a book, more than a story, more than anything even remotely quantifiable. Written on the Body is an accurate study on the power of consequences, a retrospection on pure and unconditionate love, written with the passion of
Written On The Body is more than a book, more than a story, more than anything even remotely quantifiable.
Written on the Body is an accurate study on the power of consequences, a retrospection on pure and unconditionate love, written with the passion of a thousand broken dreams.
The way it deals with sickness and pain and betrayal, moving from prose to authentic poetry in the same sentence, is what gives this book its aching and mangled edges.
I'm in love with that ending.
I tried really hard to like Jeanette Winterson, because most of the women I respect think she is amazing. But I just think she is fumbling and kind of incompetent. And for me her charisma, great passion, and several devastating one-liners don't compensate for her imprecision, scattered incoherence, or the clamminess of her authorial 'I.'Can't do it.(Wait, don't leave! I like Anais Nin. Seriously...)
Her words are almost like silk, but they are at the same time, so, so powerful.I have to admit, this wouldn't have been a book I would have personally gone out and bought.
My Mother insisted I read it, and I'm glad I did, as I had no idea what was coming, and I certainly didn't think I'd actually LIKE this book!
A space without air, a suffocated dead place, the abode of the miserable."The writing had such a poetic feel to it, and this made it very moving for me.
I could almost feel the utter rawness that the narrator was going through.
It starts out as a story of an affair, but the second half is more of a memory about or a lovestory to the lover's body.
I will have to buy it for myself.A few quotes that were meaningful to me:"I will taste you if only through your cooking.""When I say 'I will be true to you' I am drawing a quiet space beyond the reach of other desires.
Love is the one thing stronger than desire and the only proper reason to resist temptation.""What other places are there in the world than those discovered on a lover's body?"
I don't believe I've ever read anyone who writes quite like Jeanette Winterson.
She writes with a kind of sensuality that leaps over the conventional, making it arousing and painfully sad at the same time.
It is incredible how she has managed to write a book in which you know not even the gender of the main character, but you know their emotions as intimately as if they were your own.
After a single reading of this book, it became one of my favorites; not because the story is tragic (and it is), and not because the characters are vibrant, warm, and real (and they are), but because it is rare and wonderful to find writing that is this advanced, rich, gorgeous, and relatable.
Gah -- I found this insufferably narcissistic and eye-rolling to read, devoid of any sympathetic characters save the zoo-lady Jacqueline, and incredibly unsatisfying in every way. The only reason I gave it two stars is because Winterson obviously has talent -- there were a few places where the imagery was striking enough to pierce my annoyance -- and clearly this is a matter of taste and preference. It's technically and emotionally proficient, but just doesn't resonate with me personally.
Cartea mea preferată, alături de „Pe aripile vântului”. Pur și simplu, fără cuvinte.
Very intimate. The protagonist is sexless, a human in full capacity of the senses--& it is quite a feat to have a plot-less book revolving around sex and love. All of Winterson's novels are unique & original. This one is the least magical and least memorable--but still pretty damn remarkable.
Once you've brained your mortality, salivated about an affair, or lost a loved one, Written on the Body I believe goes from 4 to 5 star worthy, climbs from a tawdry tale to a lovingly wrought prose poem.
More contemporary than Graham Greene's The End of the Affair this narrative questions the responsibility of lovers to one another.
The yearning of this novelette is worth getting a bit drunk and crawling under the covers one weekend and caressing to its completion.By the end, even nature isn't much of a solace to the human train wreck.
Ma, così come le perle, le frasi di 'Scritto sul corpo' fuggono via inseguendosi o forse sfuggendosi, e, tutto ciò che rimane in mano a voi, è la sensazione bruciante di aver letto qualcosa che vi ha già marchiati una volta e, di nuovo, come solo i migliori fantasmi del passato, torna a bussare sulle vostre cicatrici.
La storia d'amore, d'odio e di rabbia più vera ed intensa che abbia letto, grazie alla capacità dell'io-narrante di trasmettere le emozioni vibranti che si avvertono a leggere ciò che sta scritto sul corpo della propria amante, il suo codice personale.
He claimed it would increase sensation but it made me feel like a prisoner in a beehive."(p143)So far with this book and Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit, I find myself at a distance from Winterson's writing, even though I have liked it so much both times.
It's not that I feel excluded; I just find myself trying to reach depths in her writing that I don't think she means to be reached, and as much as I like it, I can't say I love it.But it does keep me coming back for more.
"Written on the Body" is an extremely thoughtful, poetic and emotionally authentic novel about the fictional narrator's love affairs with women.
Not only is it a novel of intense and analyzed descriptions of emotional and physical love in romantic sexual relationships, woman after woman (I HATE the Romance genre generally, with few exceptions), but the book struck me at first that it might be written in a type of literary writing which I usually find unappealing.
Actually, maybe that is not the question the author struggles with - it may be more that real passion in life comes with relationship with another and that respecting that is the real ethic in living.
I did just a few moments ago finish reading the book for the first time - maybe I'll look back later and laugh at myself for being so infatuated, but then again maybe the desire to share life with the intensity that is revealed in this novel will only grow.
That has everything and nothing to do with what I want to write here but the plain fact is, whether Winterson knew it or not or even bothered to think about it or not or whether I'm putting words in her mouth by even saying this I knew EXACTLY what she meant by certain things she'd written herein.
I'd lived it myself and this is precisely the way I'd have explained it, had I the courage and the brio Winterson needed and must have used to put this book together.
Simply put, this is the story of someone (man or woman, who knows?
A quick reader could probably finish in one day of dedicated reading.
Part of the reason I read it so fast is because I just wanted it to be over with.
Not because I didn't like it, just because it was way too flowery, too sweet.I could've done with the first 110 or whatever pages as the entire novel and been completely satisfied.
I ran out of interest about 3/4 the way through when she started describing each part of the woman's body with 2 page passages.
This book contains one of my favorite passages of all time; here's a little excerpt:"When I say 'I will be true to you' I am drawing a quiet space beyond the reach of other desires.
No-one can legislate love; it cannot be given orders or cajoled into service.
Love belongs to itself, deaf to pleading and unmoved by violence.
Love is not something you can negotiate.
Love is the one thing stronger than desire and the only proper reason to resist temptation....
Yet I will have blunted that sharp flint that sparks between us, our desire for one another above all else."
Esta segunda parte hace diferencia en la novela y es lo que a mi juicio le da una estructura muy original, además de la característica de nunca haber quedado del todo claro el sexo del narrador/protagonista.
Tras esta sección tan especial, la novela toma otro rumbo y la autora desarrolla una narrativa, nuevamente llena de introspección sentimental, que corre rápidamente por las páginas de la obra y nos lleva a un desenlace doloroso, como suelen ser estos casos.
This book was my first introduction to Jeanette Winterson's work. I read it in college for a class on contemporary fiction. I have to admit, I was blown away by her writing style, it is so unique. This book moved me to no end. I didn't care if the narrator was male or female, it really didn't matter. The way Jeanette was able to craft the words on paper to make me feel what the narrator was feeling and experiencing was what made this book memorable to me. Now I'm totally hooked.
Flawless. Over the years this book has become a part of me.
I was less than two pages into this book before I found a sentence that so utterly took my breath away that I sat staring at the page, and eventually had to walk up the stairs so I could show it to my husband.
This was merely the first time - every couple of pages collections of words that were like a punch in the gut kept coming, and each time, I fell a little more in love with this book.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
For me, a lot of books fit into this, and “Written on the Body” by Jeanette Winterson is one of them.I read this book for the first time when I was just about to come out to my family.
It made me want to go up to Ms. Winterson and let her know how much I loved her book and how grateful I was to her for writing it.
Anything that can manage to touch you to that extent.“Written on the Body” is a love story as most of Ms. Winterson’s books.
Personalmente, sono sempre stata del parere che per apprezzare appieno un libro bisogna anche leggerlo nel momento giusto della propria vita.
Questo per me non è stato affatto il momento giusto per "Scritto sul corpo".
A proposito di poesie, nel libro è citato qualcosa che val la pena ricordare: quel meraviglioso sonetto di Shakespeare: Non sarà al matrimonio di animi costanti io ponga impedimenti: non è amore quell’amore che muta quando scopre mutamenti o tende a ritirarsi se l’altro si ritira.
Se questo è errore e mi sia provato, io non ho mai scritto, e nessuno ha mai amato.
Escrito en el cuerpo es una novela sobre la pasión y el deseo.
El personaje que nos narra todo, de quien desconocemos de quién se trata, se enamora perdidamente de Louise, una mujer pelirroja y casada que pronto decide dejar a su esposo para entregarse por completo a una relación con el/la narrador/narradora.
Winterson juega con el lenguaje para nunca dejar claro el género del narrador, quien mientras revive la historia con Louise, también recuerda sus diferentes parejas: hombres y mujeres.
En la novela encuentras temáticas que no siempre las historias de amor recuperan: el adulterio, la muerte, las equivocaciones, el deseo sin limitantes.
