https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102920.Understanding_Comics
What I have to add is that I had a fun conversation with my class about one insightful claim McCloud makes, that the simpler and more "cartoony" a comic representation is (i.e., a smiley face), the more universal it will be, the more we will say "that's me." In fiction classes I was taught to be as specific and detailed as I could be about characters and places.
But McCloud is interesting.Review from before: I've used this book many times to teach comics basics.
It's the best book I've found for doing this, and it's in a comics format, with McCloud as the cartoony and erudite "narrator".
Majority of people (in terms of an audience that is likely to pick up a comic-related theory book) has little trouble understanding the intention of the drawing and writing - we can feel the atmosphere, be moved by the characters and thrilled by the action.
Much like film and literature, comics require a lot of conceptual and aesthetic decision to make it effective and communicative, and McCloud tries hard to evaluate the general methods that are used to convey these expressions.
Understanding Comics is a comic about comics by Scott McCloud.I remember when this book came out in 1993.
More interesting to me was the explanation of the mechanism of comics and how they work on the human brain, like the gutter in between panels and the visual language of comics.While I found a lot of the book interesting, I think your enjoyment level of Understanding Comics will depend on why you read comics.
If you read them for escapism and entertainment, parts of Understanding Comics will feel like someone reading you the nutritional information of your food while you're eating it.Remember the part in the beginning of Dead Poet Society when Professor Keating has them tear a section out of their textbook?
This is our inaugural book and I'm so excited!!!We had our first meeting today, and in addition to saying terribly intelligent things about comics and eating mini-cupcakes and laughing at my dogs, we also picked a name for our (accidentally all-female) group: Jugs & Capes.
He talks a lot about how the reader is complicit in the telling of a comic story, because so much happens between the panels -- in the gutter, where the reader has to invent what is going on to connect one image to another.
Scott McCloud's love and understanding of comics is beautifully and simply expressed here.
As I was reading other peoples reviews and discussions about this book I noticed that most people are intrigued with the idea that the simpler the character on the page is, the easier it is for the reader to identify with the character.
BUT his chapter on time and expressing time in space in comics truly blew my mind when I read it.
It made me see and truly understand so much about pacing in comics.
It's nice that something was created to help people understand the language of comics, what they are, what they can be, what makes them special, and so forth.That said, there are parts which are a little convoluted (Chapter 2, I'm looking at you), and there are parts that are a little dated by now (such as the chapter on color, which I think has come a long way since the early '90s, particularly due to the use of computers).
I also liked the parallels he drew between comics and other art forms, although he emphasized visual arts far more than literature, which in some ways makes sense but I feel it neglects the fact that these are comic books.
This is a book on art and philosophy disguised as a book on comics disguised as a comic book!A brilliant must-read for any fan of comics, art, philosophy and beauty!Ahmad EddeebMay 2016

I was like, 'how could he possible have two hundred and fourteen pages of things to say about comics?' but then I'd heard it was brilliant for so long from so many people that I gave it a shot.
It's like reading Roland Barthes or somebody, but in comics, which makes it easier/more fun, which I think is in keeping with Mr. McCloud's idea that comics are the best thing in the whole universe.
I am going to be on the lookout for the next ones AND for McCloud's non-meta (is there a prefix that means not-meta?) comics.
I love the idea of this conversation more than I love the application--at least in this book. While I find the concepts themselves fascinating, I found the book tedious. The overall art and style employed by McCloud just wasn't compelling to me. I really struggled to finish this book. But as I said, the conversation is a good one, and the concepts explored--particularly the role of the reader and the required brain work involved in reading comics--were interesting. I'm glad this book is out there. I just wish I personally enjoyed it more.
"Don't gimme that comic book talk, Barney!"McCloud surely must be smiling to himself every day to see just how far - in great part because of the publication of this endearingly idealistic visual essay in 1992- his beloved medium has come since then, both in terms of popular acceptance and artistic merit. Some respect at last!
Жила-була і переклала.
У серпні в мене якось сіли батарейки, працювалося крізь зуби, тож за весь місяць тільки і здобутків, що комікс на 4 авторські аркуші / 160 тисяч знаків.
Зате дуже класний!
Це - спроба осмислити, як працюють комікси як рід мистецтва (велика залученість читачів: додумування логічних зв'язків між панелями; різні способи передати, скажімо, час і рух у статичному медіумі, і т.д., і т.і.).
Якщо ви в коміксі раніше ніколи доти не бачили семіотичної термінології, а хочеться, то вам сюди :) Ну й єдиний комікс, який цитують у наукових статтях як партнера в діалозі, а не предмет дослідження.
Детальніше розкажу, коли вийде переклад, але взагалі це класика-класика і дуже дотепно.
I also feel that this book makes an excellent argument to anyone who looks down on comics as "something for kids" or overly "nerdy." McCloud explains that comics are a much more prevalent part of our culture/society than we may immediately recognize, and what ensues is evidence of the medium as an art form, ripe with theory and rich creativity.I feel that anyone who has an interest in philosophy/theory, filmmaking, history, painting, photography, or literature/writing should read this book.
It's not just for "comic book nerds" -- it's for all who appreciate the arts and perhaps could do with some more open-mindedness.

3.5★ rounded up with indulgence for its (possible) usefulnessIf a book/work can be interesting and boring at the same time, than this was it! There were some fascinating parts, with interesting, new informations, but there were also enough parts that were boring, because of the too many details and obvious clarifications.However, it seems to me like an excellent initiative, as it could be extremely useful for those who are just getting acquainted with the comics' universe or for those who want to start creating in this field.
He took something easy to explain and built upon that to the more complex ideas.Reading Understanding Comics makes comics sound like highbrow pieces of art and maybe that is how we should view them.
Idea/purpose, form, idiom/style, structure, craft and surface; explaining how they can all work together to make great pieces.There is a lot of information within Understanding Comics and I don’t think I have explored it all yet.
The graphical representation of the art theory in the book helped me to understand comics a little better but there is just so much here that I will need to reread this a few times before it sinks in.This review originally appeared on my blog: http://literary-exploration.com/2014/...
i wanted it to be better than it was.ultimately, i'm glad i read it, but only to the extent it identified a bunch of interesting topics/themes that i'm now inclined to think about on my own as i read more comics (and reflect on the ones i've already read)--i.e. issues of time, motion, panel sequence, reader perception, artistic style etc.
i think this sequence of comments pretty well represents the irritation i experienced at the beginning of this chapter: "Even today, there are those who ask the question, 'can comics be art?' It is--I'm sorry--a really stupid question!
A book that explains the forms and functions of the graphics media -- in the guise, naturally, of a comic book. A non-fiction comic book.Everyone should read this elegant classic (and its two sequels), just for some basic 20th - 21st century cultural literacy. It does what the very best books do; makes you see the world differently, through changed eyes.Ta, L.
McCloud wrote this at a time when the artistic merit of comics/graphic novels was still in doubt in some corners, so clearly that animates a lot of the discussion.
He really demolishes any doubt about their legitimacy, and in the process created quite a comic himself.
His meditations on comic forms and how they're created and received could more often than not be applied to any other artistic endeavor.
This is clearly the work of someone who's done some heavy intellectual lifting, and the medium is lucky to have him as it cheerleader.
When McCloud was dealing with the nuts and bolts of how comics work, it was illuminating and the decision to write the book as a comic really came into its own.
There were all sorts of clever ways in which he could use the very medium of his exposition to offer insight into comics.
But when he launched himself into generalities about the importance of comics, the nature of artistic creation, language and meaning, etc., it felt piously conventional and not sufficiently analytical.
And there, the decision to write the work as a comic was annoying - it obscured the shallowness of the content.
Absolutely great. Informative, funny and interesting. A must-read for every comic books lover and a great introduction into comics for the hesitating non believers.
Sería ridículo revisar Understanding comics como un comic cualquiera (demasiado meta para mí) pero l
This is a wonderful study in how the comic form of writing works.
I think the graphic novel is going to become a more and more important form of literature.
Just look at the movie scene lately and check out how many derived from graphic novels, and that is not just the superhero movies from Marvel and DC Comics.McCloud deeply and thoughtfully explores how sequential art works on our minds and what techniques comic writers have to explore the possibilities of the form.
If you want to truly appreciate the comic form, and even how art works, read this book.

Como disse um professor querido meu no intercâmbio: "if you're interested in... life in general, you should read this book". E é bem isso mesmo, porque este livro perpassa a temática teórica dos quadrinhos e arte sequencial. Fala sobre arte, nossa relação com imagens e como imagens se comportam. Vocês simplesmente P R E C I S A M ler este livro!
A few of the things I learned, or what I learned to look at with new eyes:--How different types of lines can convey different emotional states--What closure is (how we automatically fill-in the narrative gaps between panels)--The space between panels, btw, is called "the gutter"--The different types of transitions between panels, e.g action-to-action, aspect-to-aspect, et cetera.
I know I'm going to read my latest comic book score with new eyes.On the subject of being out of date, McCloud has written two more recent books on this same subject: Reinventing Comics and Making Comics.
I came to this book after reading McCloud's The Sculptor, so I already knew that he had a firm grip on how to produce an outstanding comic.I thought I was getting an Eisner or Kirby style How-To guide for the craft and business of comics writing, and instead was treated to a brilliant treatise on art history, human perception, the role of symbols in communication, and how we use art to communicate with one another.
Even if you're not interested in comics and graphic novels, McCloud's book might get you interested.
Rather brilliantly, McCloud uses the medium of comics itself for a philosophical meditation on the nature and possibilities of comics.
Rather, he explores the specific nature of comics as sequential art and the potential of the form to explore new modes of expression.
It's really super smart art and literary criticism made fun and digestible through using comics.
I highly recommend for everyone, even if you've never thought about picking up a graphic novel.
Vynikající kniha. I kdyby vás nezajímaly přímo komiksy, má kniha co říct o vztahu mezi člověkem a výtvarným uměním obecně. Kdyby takto vypadaly učebnice, jak krásně a snadno by se učilo!
A clear overview of the form and structure of comics. Scott McCloud's deep understanding of the history and functions of art makes this an insightful and informative read.
