https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/828162.The_Tall_Stranger

For some reason I've always made fun of Western movies growing up, so I'm not sure what urged me to READ one.Nevertheless, it really wasn't too bad.The story kicks off with a wagon trail heading to California, and a mysterious stranger named Rock Bannon gets picked up, after having a skirmish with some Indians.
As the settlers continue building their new town, multiple groups are arguing whether to stay or leave, with Harper and Bannon both having their own separate motivations.The rich description of the landscape I thought was excellent - coupled with a fast-paced plot - made for a quick enjoyable read.
Such is the case with THE TALL STRANGER, a novel which, like HONDO, is the book adaptation of a movie that was in turn based on L'Amour's original short story.
Even by pulp fiction standards, THE TALL STRANGER begins to feel lazy, as though L'Amour were saying, "I know I've already got you hooked, so now I'll just kick back and take it easy." On the other hand, maybe this is exactly what I should've expected from a short story that was expanded for the sole purpose of creating a movie tie-in.
My first western in memory of my grandfather. He loved Louis L'amour novels.Honestly not too bad, nice change of pace.
A really good story if you like westerns. I had forgotten how well Louie L'Amour writes. His descriptions of the land, the people and everything else makes you feel like you are there.
Typical Louis L'Amour, a truly great story teller
This is what this story is about, there will always be followers and leaders.
These settlers let a glib speaking con-man convinced them to settle a place calledBISHOP'S VALLEY, what these settlers don't know is that Mort Harper, the glib speaking southerner dandy, convinced these settlers to settle this valley.
His real agenda is to hijack this beautiful piece of land for himself and like all tyrants he would appoint himself the leader.
Murder those he feels would buck his agenda, also offer settlers credit at the general store and holds that over them, making them beholdening to Harper...a real rat....Well, we all aware how those types of situationsturn out.
Heading west was never an easy task for settlers.
The settlers that Rock finds himself with had the qualities that most settlers had, sureness of finding a better life and willingness to deal with the hardship along the way.
So they have a new visitor with a plan to make their life better, but something isn't sitting right with Rock.
Sure enough the 'plan' is to settle on land someone else has claimed.
Sure to be a battle Rock rides away from the settlers, but there is something holding him to the well being of them, she sure is a pretty lady.
Simple easy take you back to the old days reading.
The best thing about L'Amour books is it takes just about as long to read them as it does to watch the movies made from them, but man is there a ton packed into them!
This book was made into a decent western starring Joel McCrea.
So reading this is about as close as you can come right now.
Imagining Rock as Joel McCrea makes it even better!
It's a classic western full of gunfights, fistfights, longing for a girl and a guy, and a triumph of good over evil.
Really, what more could you want in a rollicking good story?
When I turn to the first page of a book written by Louis l’Amour, I know it will be a good story because he was a talented storyteller.
He had a gift for using detailed scenery, action, dialogue, and character development to weave a story a person can experience on so many levels.
He loved the west, it’s history and its people, and it showed in the little details he chose to include in his books.
This is one of his shorter novels, one you can read in a couple of hours.
I think there are better novels in his collection, once I like even more.
a good read by one of the best western authors.
One of L'Amour'a better westerns. A wagon train tale that starts out like "Ordeal by Hunger" the story of the Donner Party. Interesting characters and L'Amour's vivid description of the west. About halfway through his books which number approximately 120.
Louis L'Amour's 3rd book published in 1957 and the 13th I've read in my quest to read them all in publication order with the caveat I may read the Sackett group differently.The Tall Stranger is a very short book even by the L'Amour standard coming in at 126 pages.
Not everyone in the wagon train is keen to have him along and when the train pulls up at a local outpost a smooth talking man named Mort Harper convinces the group to take a different route to their destination of California instead of the known trails.
Convinced by this Harper and ignoring Bannon's advice against taking the new route the wagon train sallies forth.
His name is ROCK Banyon…please!) joins up with a wagon train headed west.
The man who’s guiding the wagon train is Mort Harper.
Harper has persuaded the train to take a southern route, a route that Rock Banyon knows will lead straight to the Salt Lake Desert.
Banyon can’t quite figure out what Harper’s scheme is, but he lurks around on the fringes as the wagon train decides to appropriate some of the rancher’s land.
There’s some gun fights, some fist fights, a saloon, beautiful farm land, and a pretty girl.
And, apparently, that’s a Western.
This book, like most L'amour books, falls into the "junk food for the mind" category.
It's quick, tasty and fun but has no nutritional value.
And like most junk food, I love it!
There's nothing like escaping into a simple story of love, hate and heroism.
The good guys are good, the bad guys are bad and everyone in between runs for the hills (literally, in this case).
My only problem is the last few sentences.
I don't know if they were meant to be funny or serious, but either way they don't fit the character's personality, even if he doesn't know how to talk to women.
Pretty good. If you like Westerns then this book is definitely for you. The main characters is a flawed, but brilliant gun slinger with a withered out-look and heart-o-gold. He teams up on the train with a wagon trail of settlers who, predictably, do not believe his ernestness and side with the slick talking well dressed newcomer, to their downfall. Rock, protagonist, saves them all and gets the girl. I'm going through my Western phaze, so I dug it. Would be a good read paired with the film Broken Trail.
This is an old fashioned western. It has everything these old western tales have. A hard but honest man, a beatifull young girl, a sweet talking evil person and his posse of brutes and a conflict over grazing land.This book has so much in common with old westerns that even in the description of how man die they all do this standing up, grapling at their belly or throwing up their hands before they fall down.But I happen to love these kind of westerns, so I really enjoyed this book and I will read more books by Louis L'Amour
Again, abrupt beginning, and abrupt ending. Rock Bannon has got to be the *greatest protagonist name I've read in a while. The female character in this one was rather lacking, and Rock(snicker)'s attitude toward her was somewhat... well, the best way to sum it up is in the closing words of the book:"Oh, Rock! Are you asking me to marry you?""I'm not asking, I'm telling. This here's one marriage that's gonna start off right."...Ok, then...  Rock .
It's... Alright. If it was a movie it'd be the kind of movie you forget you've seen until you're halfway through your second viewing. Totally predictable, with completely stock characters, really, the only thing that keeps it going is that it's only 150 pages, and the writing doesn't make you think too hard. While reading I thought of 100 different ways to take the premise of the story and make it more interesting. Maybe that makes it better than I thought... At least it inspires imagination.
The descriptions of the scene of action for the story is typical L'Amour --- GREAT!!The characters are well developed for such a short novel. While the story line is typical for a western, the plotting keeps the reader interested. I just bought an almost complete set of L'Amour woks and am looking forward to working through them as a break from my usual mystery/ thriller fare. He was one of the greats of this genre.
This is the second L'Amour book I have read. I read it aloud to my husband, we both enjoyed some the language used to describe Rock Bannon. It was my husband's first western novel. It was a fun read. I will say I enjoyed The Lonesome Gods a little more than this book, but this is a much shorter novel and there wouldn't be time for the same character development. It would be fun to visit a place like Bishop's valley.
This is the first book by Louis L'amour that I have ever read and I was extremely impressed. The way that he tells his stories really makes it feel as if you're there experiencing them with him. He has a great talent of sharing western stories. I also enjoyed the difference in his writing compared to other writers. For example, his cliff hangers throughout the whole book that made you want to continue reading it. It also made me want to continue to read more of his excellent books.
This was a story centered around the main character, Rock Banning, who accompanied sixteen wagons who's occupants had a vision of the golden promise, new horizons and hope. Unbeknownst to these worn, haggard and travel weary settlers was the deviant intent of one man. This was an entertaining story that might have been a little exaggerated but held my interest, non the less.
L'Amour fudges a bit on relationships in this novel--the hero, Rock Bannon, is not the natural son of the man he calls "father." but, this fact is cast away lightly. Still, there is good suspense as a wagon train gets sidetracked into an illegal land-grab scheme. Rock wins out, but not without some very close calls--but, will he win a bride too?
Very good book. Follows the typical "Western" book formula: girl in distress, evil doer, and strong but silent hero. However, the book is a quick an exciting read. It is hard to not "guess" what will happen, but it still keeps you interested in knowing exactly how that comes to fruition. The characters are likable and you root for them to win.
Rock Bannon rides into a settler's wagon train wounded. When he is healed a Mort Harper rides into camp and talks the group into a new route to California over Rock's objections. When they reach the valley where Rock's foster father lives, Harper convinces some of the settlers to stay. A local cowhand is murdered and a range war is on.
This little romp with main character Rock Bannon helping a wagon train in their journey west is an oft told tale that L'Amour writes better than others. It's a standard story with standard characters and little excitement. The setting description is the best part of the book. Bottom line: I don't recommend this book. 4 of 10 points.
My husband reads Louie L'Amour books all the time and I was desperate to read something so I grabbed one off the shelf. I was pleasantly surprised that it was actually a pretty good book. It was really quick and easy to read.
I had never read any Louis L'Amour westerns. Old guys used to rave about them. I get it now. I understand he is formulaic, like Agatha Christie, and I'll assign that comparison as a compliment. Easy breezy to read, and very satisfying.
More of the same from Louis L'amour. The hero is invincible, the supporting characters are one-dimensional, and the villains are caricatures. I spent most of the book wondering at what point I would start caring about what happens.
