https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77236.Return_of_the_Jedi
The Original Trilogy comes to an end! I have bought the Omnibus edition with the three original “Star Wars” movie novelizations but I’ve chosen this edition to make a better focused review of each single book.So, once again, if you haven't watched this movie due being frozen in carbonite for 40 years or so, then don't read any further since there are spoilers ahead! Don't say that I didn't warn you, Rebel Scum! ANOTHER DEATH STAR…REALLY?! Thanks to Rogue One, we now know that the Empire didn’t
But, it’s sadly unbelievable to see that at the end of his successful period in command of the galaxy, he was “forced” (by good ol’ Georgie’s script) to come up with an uninspired plan of making a second Death Star, instead of choosing something else more ingenious and useful, like a whole fleet of Super Star Destroyers.And to make it more indignantly, there are the Ewoks, it’s not like I hate them per se, they’re cute alright, but I still can’t believe that a bunch of space care bears were able to defeat in ground combat to a whole Imperial Stormtroopers’ detachment.
Determined to rescue him, Luke Skywalker, Princess Leia and Lando Calrissian launch a hazardous mission against Jabba's Tatooine stronghold.Now, in the most exciting chapter of the STAR WARS saga, the Rebel commanders have gathered all the warships of the Rebel fleet into a single giant armada.
And Darth Vader, who has ordered construction to begin on a new and even more powerful Death Star, makes his plans to crush the Rebel Alliance once and for all.NB: Only the films are discussed in these reviews, I see that the novelisations are pretty low starred.My favourite - the forest, the furballs, and Luke saves the soul of his father.
Can Luke Skywalker and his friends stop the evil empire before they claim the galaxy has their own?Perfectly written just like the other two books.
Again true to the movie so much that it is like reading a screenplay.
But I guess when these books were first published (mine are first editions) Star Wars hadn't really become as big of a franchise as it is today and those words weren't really a big deal until the third movie was released.
I had to lower my rating. That's the danger of rating a book long after you read it. Upon re-read, it was the story I was awarding five stars, not this book. Lucas' third act is brilliant, Kahn's writing was not.Max Allan Collins is a supremely better adapter and I wish he could go back and write all of the novelizations. Biggest complaint: R2D2 makes no sense as Artoodeetoo.Second biggest complaint: I do not need a transliteration of all of the aforementioned's beeps and wheezes. After almost 40 years I can write his dialogue in my head!
Tiesiog skaitai, o filmas vizualizuojasi priešais tave. Nuotykiai tęsiasi. Lėja, Lukas, Lando bei Čubis su abiem robotais mėgina susigrąžinti Haną. Kuris ne tik pateko į Džabos nemalonę, jo rankas, bet ir tapo "meno kūriniu". Kiekvienas puslapis kupinas veiksmo, jog kaip ir veikėjai nesugebi atsikvėpti, baigi vieną etapą ir skubi į kitą, kurios pagrindinis tikslas - išsigelbėti nuo Imperijos, stoti į paskutinį mūšį ir jį laimėti. Knyga ne tik kupinta kosminės, tarppasaulinės Odisėjos, bet ir vidinio pasaulio, pamąstymui skirtų minutėlių. Tiesiog norisi, kad šitas pasaulis niekada nesibaigtų.
How could this book compare to the film that ended the original Star Wars trilogy?The answer is: It can't, really.Though good for what it is, you should definitely watch the film if you haven't already. Just make sure you watch the first two movies before this one.
It makes for obnoxious reading, until one realizes that you can just skip those bits.
It does make me wonder how Dave Wolverton could ever have read this book (assuming that he did, of course), and then go on to write the ghastly Courtship of Princess Leia.There are some good moments spent in Vader's head at the end.
Obi-Wan.
"Obi-Wan, his friend.
This boy was good.
. .you were right." With that, he closed his eyes, and Darth Vader -Anakin Skywalker- died." There were some things that don't fit into the story arc any more, but taken into total context, that last bit still makes me tear up (I am hopeless).
My complaint from the last two classic Star Wars novelizations was how little new, insightful material there was.Return of the Jedi remedies that in many ways.
Here, we learn that A) Anakin didn't realize Luke and Leia's mom was pregnant, B) Owen was Obi-Wan's brother (Man, Owen was mean to call Obi-Wan a "crazy, old fool"!), C) that Jabba the Hutt was a Jedi killer, and D) that Gamorreans hate droids (didn't know that one before!).
Jabba the Hutt has never been shown in the prequels to be a Jedi Killer (though, that would make that Clone Wars movie interesting!).
Great. I read the three, Star Wars, Episode IV: A New Hope, Star Wars, Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back and this one.They are all good in their own way. Star Wars, Episode IV: A New Hope by George Lucas and Alan Dean Foster is probably my favorite, but each has their own strength.This one's strength is action - James Kahn writes it particularly well, which is no small task considering the incredible source material.I highly recommend this trilogy for your die hard Star Wars fan who just wants to see these tales from a different perspective.
Return of the Jedi was my least favorite movie of the original trilogy, while there are some very good moments and some of my favorite too, they were overshadowed by bad things.
If you think watching them was bad, reading of them and about them was a lot worse.
Finally, even though some good moments shine through, sadly they cannot overshadow the bad things.
But I heard the prequel novelizations are a lot better.
Now, that the novelizations are over I can finally dive into the extended universe books and hope that they fare better than this.
This is actually more of a 2.5 star read for me. Some of the character names made no sense, spelling them phonetically instead of as they were actually spelled. It also felt like the author really didn't know his characters well, because they weren't well developed beyond the screenplay versions of them. It did have a few interesting moments with Darth Vader, which caused me to round up my rating of it. It is just not quite as good as the other novelizations, and the movie just does this more justice.
Jedoch änderte der Sprecher in diesem Hörbuch seine Sprechtaktik sehr auffällig, was mich erstmal sehr befremdet hat, da ich ihn vorher 10 Stunden lang anders erlebt hatte.Konkret damit meine ich, dass der Sprecher ab diesem Teil das Schnaufen Darth Vaders, vor und nachdem dieser etwas sagt, mit einbaut, was er in den ersten beiden Hörbüchern nie getan hat.
:D Da R2D2 ja nicht spricht, kommt das ganze Witzige ja hauptsächlich durch C3POs Antworten und Kommentare rüber, welchen Wolfgang Pampel mit einer so überzeugenden Stimme spricht, dass ich immer wieder sehr positiv überrascht war.Durch den fürchterlichen Anfang ist man als Zuhörer, genauso wie die Charaktere selbst, noch wahnsinnig viel froher darüber, wenn sie endlich von allem wegkommen.
The Rebels send a strike force to the Forest moon of Endor to destroy the shield bunker that is providing the shield to the Death Star so the Rebel Fleet can destroy the station.And yet Luke returns to Dagobah to finish his Jedi training, Yoda and Obi-Wan Kenobi convince him that one more task remains, confront Darth Vader.
Luke accompanies the Rebel Team to Endor to destroy the bunker, led by Han Solo, and they come across Ewoks, little teddy bear like creatures, who assist the Rebels in fighting off the Stormtroopers.
It may be largely due to a small little mention in this book that we have the prequel trilogy, especially that brutal lava-laden smackdown at the end of Episode III.
Included are revelations that Anakin was once a good man (we get that from the film), that he and Obi-Wan were friends (we get that, too), that they had a falling out (we don't get that), and that they fought (don't get that either).
Anakin falls into a pit of lava, and his hatred is so powerful that he survives what should have killed him.
I hope so, because otherwise, woof.I've read so many EXCELLENT Expanded Universe novels and this did not even come close.
Perhaps if I had read this as a kid in 1983 with no other knowledge I would have been OK, because this was a HUGE bestseller in 1983.
When I read a novelization of a movie, I'm hoping for further insight into the minds of the characters, what they are thinking during moments of action, etc.
Oddly, Lando Calrissian was the other character I got a little more insight into, which I thought was an odd choice, but ok overall.The Han/Leia romance was so off.
This is merely a novelization of the movie.
For example nearly every time Lando comes into the scene you get a few sentences related to how he's a gambling man: "This wasn't the right moment, he knew--but it was the right hand.
All the cards were here, now--Luke, Han, Leia, Chewbacca...and old Wild Card Lando.
He just didn't want Leia revealing the hand before all the bets were out.
Additionally you may come across the odd poetic line like: "They made eye contact from light-years and a soul's breath away." It's enough to make you want to start writing in your diary again.
Oh, you know, what I said for the other novelizations. Fine enough retelling, but doesn't add much at all. And this was another one with more action that I really care for. So, overall, these novelizations aren't that worth seeking out.(But, yes, I will still read The Force Awakens one when my hold comes in.)
Épico. La batalla de Luke y Vader es sensacional, la muerte del emperador, la redención de Anakin y el renacimiento de los Jedis, protectores de la galaxia. Retrato fiel de la película, disfrute bastante esta lectura por ser fanático de esta saga. Espero conseguir más libros para ampliar mis conocimientos de este universo.
Not quite as good as the other adaptations that I have read, but it's still a fun read.
Olipahan Star Wars täytteinen viikonloppu.
This IS, however, the best of the original OT novelizations, in my opinion, and possibly the second-best Star Wars novelization.
bizarre.On the good side, though, there are some cool extra scenes, and you get Luke's perspective on a lot of things.
The fourth star is for the extended "Luke...
this mask off" scene, where we get Darth Vader's perspective on everything as he's dying.
This scene is worth a whole extra star to me because in my opinion it's a vital and foundational piece upon which the whole characterization of Anakin Skywalker is built.
Kahn gives us a good deal of Luke's internal struggles throughout the book that don't always come out as well in the movie - Kahn has him dally with the Dark Side a lot more than he appears to in the movie, which makes sense while reading it (and also gives some credence to Dark Empire I and II).Han also gets a great character treatment here.
Besides, attempts to show them as a brave enough to take on the most powerful entity in the galaxy, despite the latter's superior technology might have succeeded if they weren't called teddy bears all the time.Still, there's a lot to like in the movie as well as in the book and Kahn gets it right when it comes to emotionally-charged scenes, particularly Luke's second duel with Vader and the latter's last moments.
But that's what I liked most: the growth of the characters through the series, whether it was Luke learning to be stronger or Han learning to love beyond himself.I've been reading these books and watching the trilogy again at the same time.
I've been a fan of movie novelizations since I was a kid. I particularly like it when I'm reading and I can picture the film playing in my head.
Actual rating: 4.5I gotta say this one was a good one.
In fact, I read it seven times in the first two years after its release.
It's the one where Luke speaks to his father and acknowledges Darth Vader as Anakin Skywalker for the first time.
In the film version, Darth Vader comes off more cold and less conflicted.It's really in the book version that you truly meet Anakin.So please read this!
It is so emotionally moving...you feel Anakin's pain so much more with the book than you do with the movie -- especially the special edition which I genuinely do not like.
The special edition film removes that sense of loss.The book is better!
Leia wears different clothing on certain occasions and is a smart person.Darth or Lord Vader wears a black armor with a black cape and is a smart and loyal person.There are more characters than that but there are too many.The main conflict is basically 2 teams fighting against each other.The teams are the rebels and the empire.There are more than one setting so these are a few Tatooine, Death Star, Millennium Falcon, Planet Endor, Rebel Cruiser ,and Outer space.The main plot line is the Rebels fighting the Empire for control.The story was a little confusing but also predictable.I would recomend this book to people who like science-fiction.
There were some mistakes in the writing, but it was a good story, so what the hell, we'll give it a 4 :)Pros:1. It's Star Wars, for crying out loud 2. Action, adventure and space battles3. Ewoks4. RedemptionCons:1. Simplistic. I would not have minded if the book was twice as long. I could stand a bit more embellishment, scene-setting and character-building.Fun read. I'll give this series to my boy to read when he's 12.
So here we go: Me on vacation with all the relatives at our annual summer gathering on the Oregon coast. I'm maybe nine. I have to sleep up in the attic. Directly above the head of my bed is a window, and I can look directly out to the beach and ocean. Every morning, I wake up early. I sit on the bed and stare out at the ocean. Then I settle in and read Return of the Jedi. Good times.
Of all the Star Wars books I've read, this one continues to be my favorite! I read this one a few years ago, and I pulled it out for a re-read. Of course, I'm a HUGE Star Wars fan, I love the movie! So, yes, I admit I was saying all those famous lines in the voices of the characters! And I'm NOT ashamed! :D
