https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4374400-if-i-stay
Mia has a choice, she can follow her love of music, go to Julliard and accomplish her cellist dreams, or she can stay with her family and the love of her life and follow her heart.
The one thing that remains the same is the question that Mia has asked herself for the past few months, should I go or should I stay?In art, the brightest colors appear beside the darkest of lines and in this book, the most endearing, tender and happy moments are surrounded by grief so palpable, that you will laugh through your tears and sob with a smile.
Not 'heart-wrenching'.This book was fine, but I honestly think that if I had read the first chapter and then read the last chapter I wouldn't have missed much.
I've seen stuff like this novel a million times before, and most of them were a lot more sad.
Do you seriously feel the need to continue commenting on this, when I've been messaged by die-hard fans and fellow haters alike, had to answer every possible argument for or against it, and been criticized for ~daring~ to write a less-than-glowing review on a website whose  literal purpose  is to review, critique, gush about, and condemn books?
This book could have been great, but it was almost embarrassing to read at times.
I know this is fantasy, but the author doesn't write it like it is supposed to be a dream.The parents were the worst part of the book for me.
They were the parents absolutely every teenager in the Western world wishes that they had- cool, young, know music, laidback, had wild young adulthoods, act like teenagers, and are just so damn awesome it hurts.
But this book was sadly not awesome, it was poorly written and cheesy.
If I stay is only one of the most endearing stories I've ever read...No reason to sob quitely while writing a review...
What I know for sure is that, after reading this book, you'll take a moment to think everything through.
To think about your life and how it isn't easy but that, when you're surrounded by people you love, it's, somehow, easier to cross over all those obstacles life puts you through.Mia sure is constantly sharing wonderful memories with us, but what is so impressive is that the author subtly included a message in each of them.
It is well-written, of course, with a perfect atmosphere fitting the story and all the emotions of the characters, but so are many many other books I've read.
Unlike my brother, who had never played an instrument before, I could sight-play and was already studied in the necessary music theory aspects from the violin.And, in form, I was better than him.
However, the technical writing aspects are far and above overcompensated by the heart and soul of this novel.This novel is like Mia's Cello.
Just as Mia can play Adam like her instrument, so too can Forman play her audience - strumming all the high and low notes with perfect, breathtaking clarity.
A sophisticated, layered, and heartachingly beautiful story about the power of family and friends, the choices we all make -and the ultimate choice Mia commands.- - -WHY I DROPPED IT:I didn't like the book.
Nothing was really "sad" except times where Mia had to choose between staying/going, etc.
But as time moves forward, a lot of people didn't like it either.
Maybe for a lot of you, it's a wonderful plot.
As a writer, I worship the rule, "If you have to add a lot of back-story to make your book understandable, then you're telling the wrong story." I agree.
Other than the fact that I was bored to tears, I had several major issues with If I Stay.For one, I failed to empathize with a vast majority of the characters.
It was like those perfect, unrealistic American families you see on T.V. It was pretty painful to read about.
If you want to know anything about me, I loathe  perfect things.
While this is a good idea in theory, all it really does is bore the reader and make them question why they are reading this book.
Despite the general hype about this book, I had my reservations because I had gone into The Lovely Bones with similar optimism and been highly disappointed by a story that never really took off and was simply drab and boring. After reading the goodreads description for this, I imagined something of the same and could only hope I wouldn't have a repeat performance.To be honest, if you're looking for fast-paced adventure and a really gripping plot then I'm not sure this book is for you. Gayle For
Forman creates the sense that life is always worth living, even when it seems that your whole world is falling apart - if you have nothing else, you still have a friend who'd risk their life for you.
Still think your life isn't worth living when someone would disagree to such an extent?The many different relationships in the book are told in varied but equally moving ways.
Mia, a shy cello-player from Oregon with only one close friend, is shown in this book to have a life full of love and things to be grateful for.
The story follows 17-year-old Mia Hall as she deals with the aftermath of a catastrophic car accident involving her family.
Mia is the only member of her family to survive, and she finds herself in a coma.
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز سی ام ماه نوامبر سال 2014 میلادیعنوان: اگر بمانم - کتاب اول؛ نویسنده: جیل (گیل) فورمن؛ مترجم: فرزام حبیبی اصفهان؛ تهران، بهنام؛ 1391؛ در 206 ص؛ شابک: 9789645668899؛ عنوان: اگر بمانم - کتاب اول؛ نویسنده: جیل (گیل) فورمن؛ مترجم: مهرآیین اخوت؛ تهران، هیرمند؛ 1393؛ در 204 ص؛ شابک: 9789644083587؛ کتاب دوم این مجموعه با عنوان: «جایی که او رفت»؛ استدر یک چشم برهمزدن همه چیز تغییر کرد، میا، هفده ساله، به خاطر تصادف حافظه اش را از دست داد.
If I stay was a bit confusing at first, but further reading addressed these nebulous matters.
I thought that the concept of a family killed in a car accident was something that few thrillers do.In fact the only time I remember that happening was in D is for Deadbeat by Sue Grafton.
She is able to travel and visit most of the characters that matter in this world.I thought If I stay elevated itself beyond airport literature due to its risky portrayal of the events unfurling here.
Mia, the lone heroine in the book, is a complex persona.
Just give the book a try.
When we read, we don't come to the book with a clean slate--we come to it with years of experiences, friendships, and memories that provide us with a vantage point from which to view the story.
Living in a tent city and gutting houses for months in what basically felt like a post-apocalyptic world was life-changing for me, but the absolute devastation of the area wasn't what did me in, it was the people.
Though I definitely enjoy the NYT Book Review, I am much more likely to buy a book that my friends recommend, on Goodreads or in real life.
If she wants to stay...If she wants to leave...There are flashbacks from happy moments with her family,her best friend Kim and her boyfriend Adam.I loved so much the fact that music is a big part of this book!Music brought them closer!If you read this book you will fall in love with Adam and definately like Mia!Mia was an interesting character!She was an average girl who cares a lot about her family,her friends and her boyfriend!And Adam was so sweet and so in love with Mia!!!He was willing to do whatever it needed to get Mia back..(The scene when he goes to the hospital and trys to go to she her and they don't leave him see her...omg :( I feel his sadness...and the scene when he finally can see her omg :(( I was crying...)"It's okay," he tells me.
Go me.)If I Stay follows the story of a girl named Mia, with a perfect family who decide to go out into the city on a snow day, and their car crashes, killing everyone in it.
Now, thankfully, I see Mia as becoming less of an annoying shit-head than Ever Bloom was in Alyson Noël's novel, in a which a perfect girl also lost her family in a car accident, but I found it an absolute chore to read.
I first stumbled across this book when I saw the movie promo last year, and I recall thinking "oh, that looks like a great story." I had just finished reading JoJo Moyes "Me Before You" series and felt they'd be similar in story and character.
Characters: The entire story takes place over one day's events, but through the story-telling, Mia recounts how she knows each person over her 17 years...
While I didn't love this book as much as many of my friends did, I still think that it has a lot of heart.
"If I Stay" is one of those books.
Another aspect of the book that I enjoyed (to my surprise) is music.
I am not really a musical person and can't normally relate to music-centered stories, but music is a very vibrant and important player in this book.
In that respect this book reminds me a little of a movie "August Rush" that I also enjoyed to my surprise.

3.5 starsWelcome to another exciting fight-to-the-death conversation between Nice Natalie and Cynical Natalie.Nice Natalie: Here we are again, about to rag on another beloved book.Cynical Natalie: It's called having an opinion. If you wanna play nice-nice, go stand in the corner with the Stop the GR Bullies people.Nice Natalie: But you did like If I Stay. The writing sent shivers down your spine, remember?  "And there was so much noise. A symphony of grinding, a chorus of popping, an aria of exp
If you wanna play nice-nice, go stand in the corner with the Stop the GR Bullies people.Nice Natalie: But you did like If I Stay.
It was just gorgeous the way the writer meshed Mia's love for music with stuff.Cynical Natalie: Yes, but there's a very big difference between liking something and loving it.
But I don't like feeling suckered into it.Nice Natalie: If you want to read the next one, that means it did its job!Cynical Natalie: Meh, I guess it did.
This book is about a girl named Mia who experiences a car accident which kills her parents and presumably her brother.
I felt detached from the story and constant shifting of Mia’s memories and her present limbo-like state in the hospital.
This book is full of cheesy scenes like the one where Mia brings the bow of her cello and “plays it” on Adam's body like an instrument.It also had one of the most unbelievable and emotionally manipulative ending ever.(view spoiler)[ Mia is lying in the hospital and her boyfriend comes to meet her.
So let’s put that comparison to bed right now.Mia plays the cello and listens to classical music and she doesn’t care that most people think she is a little odd.
Actually, all of the characters were well written, with depth, and seemed like real people.
Does a bunch of stories compiled together in an artful way a plot make?
Despite the mostly absentee plot, the book was actually quite well written.
I don’t know if she has such command of her voice to cause it to sound like it was cracking with emotion when the book was at an exceptionally moving point, or if the she was ACTUALLY crying while she was reading those parts.
MOVIE TRAILER ❤❤❤❤  I'm so excited. I loved this book hard !!!! Major goosebumps while watching and of course I bawled my eyeballs out !!! Here's the link to the trailer :http://youtu.be/rMp896hfp74This book was beautiful. Packed with so much living, dying, loving, crying....Not necessarily in that order. This is a book about Mia told from Mia's point of view, which by the way was heart-breaking and gorgeous. On a normal day in the normal life of 17 year old Mia and her mom, her dad and her litt
This is a book about Mia told from Mia's point of view, which by the way was heart-breaking and gorgeous.
On a normal day in the normal life of 17 year old Mia and her mom, her dad and her little brother Teddy...Life derailed and took a different course.....a beautiful snow day turns tragicThe story begins.
Reading this story truly made me realize that its important If I stay.
I'm not sure that I want to wake upAdam~ Its okay.
Everyone wants you to stay.
I want you to stay more than I've ever wanted anything in my life.
My house mate asked 'why do you put yourself through it?' I had to think about it, for a fraction of a second, before I answered 'because every word is worth it'.Simply, this book wouldn't be the emotional cruncher it is without some superb writing from Forman.
I was shocked by how quickly this story and girl sucked me in as the tears by the second chapter would attest.Music has a large role in this book but it's never clunky or awkward.
I think that could be the best comparison for this novel, it is to the written word as Falling Slowly is to your ears - emotive, heartwarming, stirring, powerful and memorable.This novel is about love.
When a disastrous car wreck lands Mia in a coma, she is faced with the ultimate decision: To live or to die.As difficult as that choice is on its own, there are certain elements swaying Mia in each direction that stand to complicate matters even further.
This story is told through Mia’s emotional perspective, so we not only learn of her situation firsthand, but we are able to feel every piece of its heartache.
Lovable.▪	Plot: A young girl in a coma must choose between living and dying.▪ Writing: Impressive.
Reviewed by: Rabid ReadsThis is the first time I've reread If I Stay . . . and I'm happy to report that after five years, it's still a fantastic book.It's amazing to me how, in just a few short pages, Forman is able to make you care about the Hall family. REALLY care. REALLY feel it when Mia begins to watch from outside herself, as her life, her world, is completely destroyed. My dad smiles and taps on his pipe. He started smoking one recently as part of this whole 1950s Father Knows Best retro
and I'm happy to report that after five years, it's still a fantastic book.It's amazing to me how, in just a few short pages, Forman is able to make you care about the Hall family.
And just as Mia is never certain about which her father is being---sartorial or sardonic---I'm never certain on which Forman is being either.
It's been so long that I can't remember what my first impression of this book was, but when I started reading this time, I was worried .
Especially when her father makes jokes about Mia being switched at birth, b/c she doesn't even look like the rest of her blonde-haired, blue-eyed family.
If you are in the mood for an ugly-cry, look no farther.While I expected this book to be sad and beautifully tragic, which it most definitely was, I wasn't prepared for the emotional blows to start so early-on and then continue for the entirety of the book.
All the while, Mia struggles to decide whether she wants to return to her remaining loved ones and a life forever marred by the unjust loss of her family, or if she wants to let her life fade away.Needless to say, this story had me turned into a snotty, sniffling mess in no time!
What an absolute beauty of a book. I made the terrible faux pas of watching the film before I read the book (please, forgive me) so I was already armed with some understanding of the plot and the ending... and I was still left breathless after reading this. Some phrases and moments in the book evoke the most beautifully, painful imagery and I was so emotionally invested in the characters that this became a one-sitting book (a very rare breed these days)WARNING: Do not attempt to read this book without a supersize box of Kleenex beside you!
This book is an emotional roller coaster but I loved it!
Although I’d read the synopsis multiple times, I never really “got” what the story was until I read the first chapter when it all happens.
The choice is resonated through flashbacks, that feature Mia’s parents, brother Teddy, boyfriend Adam, her love of the cello and her best friend Kim. While the prose of the novel would seemingly be depressing, these glimpses are filled with hope, love and often times laughter.
Though the novel is clearly small in its mere 208 pages, it doesn’t seem inadequate in any way possible.
Despite the solemn tone, I didn’t find myself shedding any tears until the last three pages of the novel.
The book is kind of boring but there are some parts that are so very beautiful. Especially the part when Mia joins Adam and her father and they form a mini orchestra in their garden.
"Choices. Seventeen-year-old Mia is faced with some tough ones: Stay true to her first love—music—even if it means losing her boyfriend and leaving her family and friends behind? Then one February morning Mia goes for a drive with her family, and in an instant, everything changes. Suddenly, all the choices are gone, except one. And it's the only one that matters." This one has been on my Kindle for ages. I read some NA/YA but not a lot as the characters sometimes annoy me with their immaturity.
Seventeen-year-old Mia is faced with some tough ones: Stay true to her first love—music—even if it means losing her boyfriend and leaving her family and friends behind?
But I think if an author is THAT good she can transcend the "age" thing and reach out to all audiences, no matter what age they are.Of course this one had a music theme, which is right up my alley!
Honestly, I don't think I would have started it if the second book had not been available for me to dive straight in to.A really good read.
I absolutely loved this book.Multiple times whilst reading this baby, tears welled up in my eyes at the beauty of Gayle's writing, and just imagining being in Mia's situation got me really emotional. I literally started this book earlier today, and I managed to read the entire thing within a few hours because I did not want to put it down.This is the third book by Gayle Forman that I've read in the past few weeks, and I think it's safe to say that she has quickly become one of my favorite YA contemporary authors for sure.
