https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/356248.The_Osterman_Weekend
U.S. versus the Soviets, the Cold War. Ludlum levels up the paranoia to Paranoia and finally to PARANOIA!!Do the Soviets have sleeper agents, code named Omega, working for them who will covertly topple the American economic system once given the word?
The CIA enlists TV producer, John Tanner in order to take Omega out of the picture.
Ludlum does an effective job ratcheting up the tension; the ending, though perfunctory, isn’t totally unsatisfying (or unbelievable), just standard fare for this type of book.The book was made into an almost indecipherably obtuse movie back in the 1980’s.
This isn’t a Bourne/Bond book.
I really liked the movie back in the 80s. Hard to say why. Great cast and a kid with a crossbow. The book is more detailed and complex. Great story of a Soviet plot to break business and professional leaders through blackmail. The idea was to release damaging data or turn people in attempt to destroy the American economy. Misdirection and suspicion drives four couples to the edge. Friends mistrusted friends all caught up in finding out who among them worked for the Soviet Project called Omega.(Written on my iPhone)
But alas my life took a different and much more realistic turn and I was destined to experience my love of such things through reading.I’ve read hundreds of novels in the thriller genre since my early Ludlum days and have found many worthwhile reads.
In truth, I had sort of forgotten about those old Ludlum paperbacks…until a few days ago when I realized I still had The Osterman Weekend sitting there on my countless book shelves, surrounded by similar titles, mostly unread Covert One novels written in Ludlum’s name but by different authors.
Many times the nature of the adversary isn’t well-defined…it’s enough that we know they are the bad guys.This book is a perfect example.
I love a good spy thriller and usually prefer those books of Ludlum's but this every man story was very good.
I can't say that in reading this book I didn't visualize my travel companions as spies I needed to take down but what it left me with was a better appreciation of how easy it was to lose a good friend.
The afternoon and evening with this book on the terrace was just the escape I needed and I am happy to say that I didn't bug my friends rooms, hold them at gunpoint until they surrendered the maps of Italy or poison their wine.
I hadn't read a Robert Ludlum novel since the Jason Bourne series was popular years ago. This one was a quick read, full of action, clever and unpredictable. I had the bad guys figured out at least ten times. If you are in the mood for a quick, enjoyable mystery, this would a good choice.
This book is a really boring read.I could not finished it and stopped at page 90.It is not a regular Robert Ludlumit has no real urgency of excitement to it.First I thought I can just soldier on but just could not.On the First few pages you just want to fall asleep. I would say don't waste your time in trying to read this book.This was time wasted, wish I did not by this book.
The first Ludlum book I have read, and it moved fast. Ludlow has a style of writing that moves well. Suspense was exceptional; and unpredictable. It's not fair to the book, but it was a little dated. This was an easy read. Ludlum captures the egos(and there was plenty of that to go around) of the characters so well that I nearly imagined a movie playing out. Go figure, and no small wonder so many of his books are now also movies.
A fourth family, the Ostermans, are coming in from Los Angeles.The main character, John Tanner, is a news director for a major network.
The poele Ludlum creates are people we know and can believe in, and their fears and troubles are ours.Ludlum has two types of plot--the story in which an ordinary person is caught up in an intrigue and grows to be capable of extroardinary action, and the "super spy" Jason Bourne stuff, in which the (actions) hero triumphs through superior training.The author's best plots are the earlier type, the ones in which ordinary characters are caught up in extraordinary circumstances.
'The Osterman Weekend' is one of those books, and, despite the differences in age, time, and era, his story is one well worth reading.
A TV host of a 60 Minutes type show, is being summoned to Washington under false pretences and convinced by the CIA that his friends are conspiring against the country.
This is a clever, intriguing and fun book which has glimmers of the genius which Robert Ludlum is about to become.
I've enjoyed this book (not as much as I enjoyed Ludlum's later releases) simply because it intrigued me, the characters were interesting and the plot was fascinating since both the reader and the main character have no idea what's going on.
I enjoyed this quick novel (by Ludlum standards) much more than I thought I would. It's very different from his other works in that it doesn't feature some nearly superhuman government agent, but just a regular guy in his regular life that gets caught up in some very irregular stuff. Much of it feels almost like an Agatha Christie novel, as you're trying to figure out who's who and who did what do whom. That, and the final 100 pages are non-stop action, suspense, and thrills. Not a Ludlum "classic," but quite a fun read.
No one writes a suspense thriller like Ludlum could at his peak. Given some of the more complex international settings of his later works, this book feels almost austere in its New Jersey setting, but that doesn't the diminish the craft of Ludlum's ability to wind his way through twists and betrayals at every turn. For anyone who has never read a Ludlum work, this is a good place to start.
Read this in an evening, bit of a slow start but as with all Ludlum novels they hook you and you don't want to set them down. It is very short by Ludlum standards but it's still a very good story none-the-less. A few people in their reviews say that it's dated. What do they expect? Just set yourself in that time period and there shouldn't be a problem. Anyway, 4 out of 5 from me.
Robert Ludlum was one of the original action, mystery and twist and turn writers of the 1970's and of course the creator of the Bourne Series as a fan of his for over a few decades I was glad that I finally read this one by him. This was his second book, but for some reason I never read it. If you love Robert Ludlum it is worth reading.
Needed a book for a 8 hour flight. Found this book on the library shelf and grabbed it. It's an enthralling story isn't it? Anyways I found it to be a good & fast read. It made the flight go by faster so it did it's job. I recommend it. There that's my review.
The Osterman Weekend is an unusual story of a weekend spent by four friendly couples who possibly could be or not be an active member of a espionage set up. The author thickens the plot with soaring tension of suspicion & paranoia which strains the relationship of the core group of characters. NICE.
Very mysterious and dark - got confused by so mny names and realis, that finally found it in translation in Bulgarian to be able to finidh . Plot abou 50-s and CIA and that stuff
This is a strange tale of suspicion and paranoia. I enjoyed it immensely from the very start, but somehow I felt as if Ludlum was writing a parody of his work. Maybe it has been too long since I last read Ludlum!! However it was still a very enjoyable book. There were a few hidden gems like the one I quote below,that reminded me that it is the same author who wrote the Bourne Series; The Tremaynes, the Cardones, the Ostermans.All there. None accounted for.Any or all.Omega!  SPOILERS Ahead. Consi
3. Joe Cardone, a successful Princeton athlete who now works at Wall Street.All 3 families are friends with Bernie and Leila Osterman & often get together at the local club house.
They inform him that the center of this conspiracy is Saddle Valley and his 3 close friends might be a part of it, as evidenced by their hidden bank accounts in Switzerland.
He is recruited by the CIA to unveil this conspiracy this weekend when the four families get together.The CIA employs amusing tactics to make the 3 men suspicious of Tanner.
I want to know why you're sitting in mycar!""Be very careful of your friend, John Tanner.
This book shows that though the genre is "espionage", Mr. Ludlum is extremely versatile in exploring a completely different era, setup and environment while continuing to deliver undiluted intrigue.The story is set in a remote location somewhere near New York, USA.
Or maybe, it can play out before you even realise its happening.This is a book that you MUST read and continue your journey into the abyss of the world of Robert Ludlum.
I remember watching the movie and remembering crossbows.
There are no mention of crossbows in this novel at all.
A newsman, John Tanner, is told at a secret meeting that all his best friends are Soviet agents and it is up to him to stop Omega, which is about to start an operation that will destroy America's economy.
The Cardonnes, Tremaynes and Ostermans have a planned weekend at the Tanner home.
But this time the friends have been agitated by agents to prime them for the weekend.
No one is themselves and the weekend gets weirder and more violent.

An early 1970s cold war spy thriller.
One of Ludlum's earliest books and if you're used to his other books such as the Parsifal Mosaic and the Bourne trilogy you'll be disappointed as it's more of a mystery novel than an action come spy thriller.Most of the novel is taken setting up the weekend for a 24 hour clash where the plot is resolved - CIA vs KGB allies.
Whilst no doubt an excellent book in its time, it has aged poorly.If you're wanting to read all of Ludlum's works, sure give it a look but if you're after entertainment you'd be better off with one of his other titles.
Argumento confuso e pouco credível... Começou razoavelmente, ainda que sem história e um pouco aborrecido. Acabou com muita acção, mas muita confusão, sem pistas para se poder seguir a trama e tentar perceber o que se estava a passar... Bem me tinha dito a minha mulher que este escritor não era grande espingarda...
I read the book three times and watched the film twice and I'm still not certain I really "get it". An overly complicated story involving the C.I.A., revenge, betrayal and who knows what else. Not Ludlum's best.
Una maraña total, con eso describiría perfectamente a este escrito.No es un mal libro, pero no lo recomendaría.
The first Ludlum book I read and it is dear to my heart. That Ludlum thriller is he? is she? will they? A fantastic story all round. Must read.
The book is now showing it's age, having a cold-war feel to it, although in no way is it about America's relationship with Russia.The book is a spy / espionage type thriller where an unknown organisation, Omega, is looking to cause mayhem in small town America that will call reverberations around the world and the collapse of its most powerful country.John Tanner and his wife Ali are preparing for a regular get together with three other couples at their home in Saddle Valley.
On Friday afternoons in 8th grade, the teacher used to read us books for the last half hour or so of the day, and this was one of them.
It holds up remarkably well, journalist thinks he's being manipulated, then realises he's being gaslighted.
Of course some things don't - the idea of an entire weekend free!
I also like to think the women would have a bigger role today, though sadly the chances are probably only 50-50.
And of course they'd all have cell phones, so the parts where they keep dropping out of contact would no longer be possible.
O livro deixa várias questões sem resposta.Esse, sempre foi um hábito da literatura policial e de espionagem.Dick & Ginny, Joe & Betty e Bernie & Leila não tinham nenhuma ligação a Ómega? Todos eles estavam, exclusivamente, preocupados com as contas na Suiça?Ludlum termina com a frase: A "ómega", afinal, tinha vencido.Referia-se, certamente, a alguns dos casais mencionados, ou, mesmo, a todos.Aquele pregador de Leila seria um identificador?A espionagem é um jogo muito especial e todas estas questões deixadas por Ludlum mostram-nos como neste jogo poucas vezes 2+2 é igual a 4.Essa foi, certamente a ideia do autor.
Quite the opposite to The Janson Directive in that this one was a little too short. At only 250 pages, there's very little in the way of filler but this also works as a detriment as very little of the revelations, save for the final few pages, hold too much weight. That said, it belts along at a terrific pace and once the big reveal at the end happens, everything makes sense. Ludlum does know how to successfully dupe the reader. Either that or I'm dumb. If so, I'll continue to enjoy being fooled by his work.
Now that how its done. I really enjoyed it book, it was intriguing and thought provoking. No matter how hard I tried could not get who omega was, it kept me guessing from the beginning to the end. Character development was great, plot had hole but heh..
