https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/130028.Moon_Tiger
Moon Tiger moves with the ebb and flow of history, deftly sashaying across the lifespan of Claudia Hampton in a kaleidoscopic narrative that highlights the friction of lives passing and ricocheting with one another as well the human will in conflict with the horrors of history.Language tethers us to the world; without it we spin like atoms.As the novel opens, Claudia is dying slowly of stomach cancer and reflecting back over her life.
‘A neat image for the relation of man to the physical world,’ Claudia says of it, ‘Gone, passed through and away.’ Stories, then, are the way we grapple with the reality of our impermanence and assuage the pain caused by the impermanence of those we love.‘The power of language.
What she means, we soon learn, is that it will be a history of the world as experienced by her.
We have all been exposed at certain times of our life to moments of history which mysteriously remain an essential part of who we are.
Perhaps a childhood visit to Hampton Court, a passage in a school history book about Cleopatra, a documentary about an archaeologist hell-bent on finding the remains of Troy – moments that are like portals allowing us to connect to a larger history.
We haunt history and history haunts us, at least certain moments of it.
A very personal take on history If I ever met Ms. Penelope Lively, it'd go one of two ways: I'd embarrass myself, falling over her with syrupy praise, thanking her with babbling, awkward effusiveness for creating such a masterpiece OR I'd tell her with the bitterness of a withered crone that reading this book dampened every hope I had of writing something even close to its equal in impact, beauty or originality. She has raised the literary bar, HIGH.It's a double edged sword when you're a write
If I ever met Ms. Penelope Lively, it'd go one of two ways: I'd embarrass myself, falling over her with syrupy praise, thanking her with babbling, awkward effusiveness for creating such a masterpiece OR I'd tell her with the bitterness of a withered crone that reading this book dampened every hope I had of writing something even close to its equal in impact, beauty or originality.
A famous historian in her younger life, it still preoccupies her in old age - the way the countless stories of what came before informs each person’s present.History may be pared down to ‘facts’ in books, but the truth of it, the life of it, varies, depending who is doing the telling.
Claudia Hampton speaks to me of wars fought in distant lands, of the ever-persistent forward march of humanity in the quest for collective betterment, of stories unknowingly buried forever in the catacombs of time and never unearthed, of the people we carry in our hearts wherever we go, of the history of the world intertwined with our own.
Claudia tries to make sense of the cacophony of voices inside her head and outside, of conflicting opinions colliding violently creating sparks that burn down empires, turn to rubble the foundation of regimes.
Utterly compelling historical novel that plays with time and perspective in fascinating ways.
Claudia Hampton sets out to tell the history of the world.
Lively does a masterful job of shifting perspectives on various scenes, telling it first from one character's perspective, then another's, and on shifting and jumbling Claudia's sense of time, because as an old woman looking back on her life, she sees the past not as chronology but as a jumbled up mess of stories and moods.
Still there is a strong story arc here, along with a vivid sense of place.
This is a terrific novel.
The nerdiness quotient in how I picked this book up is off the charts (it was quoted in an article I was reading for my thesis) but I can honestly say I have rarely made so wise a geeky decision.
Seeing history not as dates and names but an extension of her own consciousness, a reflection of her experiences.
I'm sure my love of this book is slightly colored by the fact that the main character is a historian and sees the world accordingly, but I maintain that anyone can enjoy this book.
I do feel indignant on behalf of Lively that this book, written a full 5 years before The English Patient seems to cover similar ground but in a writing style that I deem more warmly accessible and yet still deceptively clever.
However, I guess we should be happy she won the 1987 Booker Prize and is now getting more attention because of the Golden Man Booker ( ironically it is up against The English Patient - there is no question in my mind as to which is the better book ) It is just immensely impressive to me what Lively achieves in the space of 225 pages.
As soon as I read the synopsis of Moon Tiger I knew I was going to enjoy it.
I liked Claudia very much.
The author writes beautifully and her descriptions of Egypt made me feel as if I was there.
The piece towards the end when Claudia reads Tom's description of the war in the desert is an incredibly realistic narrative of war as it is suffered by the men on the ground.I am amazed that I have not read anything by this author before, but now that I have read one I will be back for more.
It was selected as the book from the 1980s to go up for the Golden Man Booker Prize this year, and despite the fact that it didn't ultimately win, I feel like that process put it back on the radar for a lot of us.
And who as a woman hasn't had the word "difficult" used about them as if it were the worst thing you could be?
(The book starts with her in her death bed, and from time to time the narrative returns there, including a particularly honest and memorable moment between mother and daughter.) She despises her brother's wife, who is her opposite.
The main character, Claudia, is anything but dull; she is irascible, unapologetic; a woman very much ahead of her time.
In a single sentence of idle chatter we preserve Latin, Anglo-Saxon, Norse; we carry a museum inside our heads, each day we commemorate peoples of whom we have never heard.
… That words are more durable than anything, that they blow with the wind, hibernate and reawaken, shelter parasitic on the most unlikely hosts, survive, survive and survive.”Rarely does an author take you as far inside a character as Penelope Lively does with Claudia.
This novel is a gift to readers.
Thanks to Shane and Marguerite whose reviews inspired me to read this novel.
I am verklempt. I am besotted. I've come undone.
An impressive account of war-correspondent and popular-historian Claudia, from her childhood to her death, the story she tells herself in a hospital bed at the end of a long life, its style mimicking the way a person might remember, without it being so-called stream-of-consciousness.
The narrative also gets handed off in paragraphs to the important people of her life: the reader sees of them what Claudia will never know, just as the same is true of what they will never know about Claudia.
If any of this sounds impersonal, it’s far from that: Claudia is a forceful character, living her life after WWII with verve and engagement despite a huge sadness at her core.
There isn't a wasted word in the entire novel and while you may not always sympathize with the main character (Claudia), you will enjoy her razor-sharp wit.
Her daughter is portrayed as a dull product of a love affair but Lively doesn't allow that to go on either, allowing the daughter to have her say.
I've read this countless times because Lively is a master or rather mistress of economy with words and yet she takes the reader through decades.
This is a thinking person's romance.
Just the genuine emotions that come from the unexpected during a wartime romance.
She also fondly and sadly remembers her brief affair with Tom, the only man she ever truly loved.Interrupting her memories are visits from Jasper, the father of her child, her painfully ordinary and boring sister-in-law Sylvia and Claudia's unremarkable daughter Lisa.
As she did in The Photograph, Lively takes haughty, somewhat unlikable characters and transforms them into fascinating people.
I absolutely loved this bit where an elderly and hospitalized Claudia muses about language:
As Lively proves, looking back on loves lost, opportunities missed, deeds done and regrettable words exchanged can be both a luxury and a curse.
She jumps from first person to third to different first persons, and it is not the least bit confusing.I suspect that many of us with decades behind us can relate to this way of recollecting.
A color, a sound, anything can set off a memory as real now as it was in the time that it happened.
And likewise, within the memory, we may jump to still other associations.
White women going around with their lovers and their daughters and their wars and politics and frustrated dreams, and yes their pain is recognizable but does it have to be worked out on the backs of colonialism-strengthening-tourism and the mournful histories of those whose descendants are pretended extinct by the common pen?
Sure, she held her own in a white male dominated world, but a world beyond European borders does not exist for the sole purpose of personal development.It's clever and witty and hints at the deeper things, I'll give it that.
This book positively shimmered. I thought about it for days afterward, and not for any specific reason apart from sheer awe at this author's skill. This novel is perhaps the best book I've read all year. Her economy of phrase, wit, and ability to apply a dream-like sheen to a whole compendium of characters makes this book a strange journey, much like an odd dream that you wake up wondering, "was that real?"
“… crying not in grief but in wonder that nothing is ever lost, that everything can be retrieved, that a lifetime is not linear but instant. That, inside the head, everything happens at once” I came to this book as a result of its inclusion as part of the 2019 Mookse Madness tournament – but it was also an opportunity to add a Booker prize winner to the list I have read (I think this is my 22nd) and one which was generally seen as a surprise pick to represent the 1980s for the Golden Man Booker
I came to this book as a result of its inclusion as part of the 2019 Mookse Madness tournament – but it was also an opportunity to add a Booker prize winner to the list I have read (I think this is my 22nd) and one which was generally seen as a surprise pick to represent the 1980s for the Golden Man Booker (surprise as it was picked ahead of Midnight’s Children – which has twice been awarded a Best of the Booker/Booker of Bookers prize I believe).The plot of the book is summarised here (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moon_Tiger) albeit that does not capture the process of memory and of different perspectives on events which drives the book – as the opening quote implies.Overall I thought this was an excellent book – much stronger than I was expecting.
Caudia, the main character, is writing a book towards the end of her life and calls it the history of the world.
But then it is her own personal history, mirroring that of her world and the way in which that world affected her story in it.Aged and hospitalized, Claudia revisits the life that she has lived and the characters that have been of consequence to that life.
The time of war, which covers a significant section towards the end of the novel, is a time when her history of the world is best remembered.
It's a constant deficiency in my life that I read something that moves me and there is no one around with whom I can discuss it.I've only recently discovered Penelope Lively.
I think I read a review of her book HOW IT ALL BEGAN in ArtForum.
The subtly, the humor, the unique voice -- it is no surprise to me this book is an award winner.
I think what surprised me most was the power of romance.
The way Lively portrays memory, history, the people as 'hinges' that connect you to other people, is down which such finesse I read amazed.
I think any fan of Lawrence Durrell will enjoy this book.
My fundamental problem with the book is that Claudia is such a self-satisfied narcissist that the reader ultimately tires of the recital of her various accomplishments and the smug superiority with which lesser characters in her history (her unfortunate sister-in-law, her disappointingly conventional daughter) are dismissed.
Lively is no fool, and attempts to mitigate Claudia's unrelenting smugness with a brief episode of vulnerability and genuine emotion during a doomed World War II romance with a British tank commander who is subsequently killed in battle.
Moon Tiger is easily the best book I’ve read in 2018. I find it almost impossible to review a novel that has affected me in this way. I’ll leave it to say that Lively is expert in her use of language, and characterisation. This is a novel at once about a personal history, and the history of the world. It perfectly captures the intersection between private and public history, the collective and the individual. We are everything, and we are nothing.
If this novel had not been chosen as the group read for December 2018 by the ManBookering group here on GR, I would have missed this splendid book!
It is strange, but I had never heard of Penelope Lively nor of this Booker Prize winner of 1987 and I would surely have forever missed this masterpiece if not for its choice of the group read.
I especially liked to read about her time as a war correspondent in Egypt.
I especially liked the way in which Lively could change perspectives by switching from the viewpoint of one person to the other in the same conversation.
At The Royal Festival Hall for Booker 50 (July 2018), Lively raised the subject herself and said she had mixed feelings about Claudia, who she said was, emphatically, not her!!The renewed plaudits for Moon Tiger concur that this is a book that has found its time now.
It’s a facsimile of all our lives that while the end is known (death), we don’t always know when our peak time has arrived.A fine book, and one indeed that has found its place.
She lies awake in the small hours. On the bedside table is a Moon Tiger. The Moon Tiger is a green coil that slowly burns all night, repelling mosquitoes, dropping away into lengths of grey ash, its glowing red eye a companion of the hot insect-rasping darkness. She lies there thinking of nothing, simply being, her whole body content. Another inch of the Moon Tiger feathers down into the saucer. As Claudia Hampton – the records do suggest she was someone, probably – lies in her hospital bed, wa
The Moon Tiger is a green coil that slowly burns all night, repelling mosquitoes, dropping away into lengths of grey ash, its glowing red eye a companion of the hot insect-rasping darkness.
Claudia decides to take a “kaleidoscopic approach” to her history – shake the tube and see what comes out – and while she does flit between details from the Jurassic to the World Wars and her own domestic past, her narrative more closely resembles the titular Moon Tiger, slowly spiralling down towards the glowing red eye at its centre; the glow of a brief affair that colours everything that came after for her.
It tells the story of a terminally ill woman, Claudia Hampton, on her deathbed who tries to summirize her life (I do intent to put things as simple as possible because Moon Tiger has already stolen the show with its complicated narrative).
In between gloriously written lines on the Egyptian pharaohs, endless wars that humanity broke out, Napoleon and his wife, Russian aristocrats in exile, English aristocrats in 20th century, Hernán Cortés and Spanish colonizers there must be a grain of tragedy which evokes something in reader’s heart.
The tragedy of absolute emotional emptiness of the amazing narrative and sorrowful story of a dying woman whose mind wanders in time making Shakespeare and Egyptian pharaoh more real than her family.
Penelope Lively at her best, and one of the best Booker winners IMO.How did I never read it before?
It will stay with me for a long time.A couple of websites:"She is interested in the operation of memory - how it works and how we use it - and with the nature of evidence," wrote her editor at Penguin, Juliet Annan."Her preoccupations are with telling a tale from different angles...
But also, like any good historian, she is meticulous in her research." http://www.bbc.com/news/entertainment...
331 Dec 2011Penelope Lively’s life in books.
Profile coinciding with her being made a Dame of the British Empire.And https://www.theguardian.com/books/boo...
"Time and the universe lie around in our minds.
We are sleeping histories of the world."An erudite and terribly interesting woman is trapped in her body toward the end of life.
"Moon Tiger" follows the river of Claudia Hampton's journey from its source to its delta, drawing from tributaries and branching out along the way.
It is wide and deep and ever-changing but somehow always still the same river.
Sometimes the waters are dark and turbulent; sometimes they splash joyfully and sparkle in the sunlight.
I was never less than enthralled.Penelope Lively is a magnificent writer.
I would ride this river again tomorrow.
This is no longer fresh enough in the memory for me to review it adequately, but it was an enjoyable, well written and thought provoking book, which prompted me to read several other Lively novels - she is now one of my favourite writers.
This is one of the books I can get lyrical about.
The main character is a fenomanal lady, not a nice or sweet girl, but a very interesting, intelligent woman who would be great company.
At the same time it also makes us thing about very serious issues: society’s view on motherhood, the way love can show itself in very different forms, how our experiences define us, how we change over time,....Most of all it is beautifully and vividly written, in a style as elegant and smart as the MC.
On my ‘to reread soon’- list
