https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/132084.Sisterhood_is_Powerful
No one remembers this one anymore. It helped me to stay and continue to believe in the written word, though I do not now hold that belief...50years is a long time to read!As radical and old fashioned as this is, I'd still encourage young women (and old) to "peruse" it, and every once and again, read hard.
I'm re-reading this now, and it's remarkable to me how fresh so much of it still is, that is if you look past the 1970s-era lingo. That's not necessarily a good thing. What came as the greatest surprise, after 40 years of being indoctrinated by the myth of the humorless feminist, is just how witty and snarky the movement sisters could be.
Lest we forget,every woman's ability to own a home, have a credit rating and have a crack at an executive position is due to the sacrifice and hard work of the feminists of the 60's and 70's. This book is a time piece and testament to their efforts. You go, girls!
This would be worth picking up for the SCUM manifesto alone (far more witty and self-aware than you might expect). But reactionary demagogues only represent a handful of the diverse voices that resound beneath the large ideological tent of this collection.It's hard to know whether it's good or bad that, nowadays, we need to reread a book like this to remember what our mothers -- or mine, at any rate -- fought so hard for.More important, this is a good book to have around for picking up them uppity broads who hang out in coffee shops.
Wonderful introduction to feminist issues. All feminists were reading and discussing it in the 1970s
I read this book as an 18 year old freshman at a catholic women's college in 1970. It changed my life for the better and baptized me into womanhood. I shortly left that nunnery. :)
I read this book as a teenager (I'm turning 50 soon), and it propelled me into feminist thought. At the age of 22, when I returned to college, I joined the women's organization, and invited Robin Morgan to come speak at the University I was attending. It was like meeting my hero. I'll never forget taking her out to breakfast, and wanting to pinch myself to make sure I wasn't dreaming. This was a life changing book for me, but I'm not sure how relevant it would be today, except in an historical context.
This book was formative and empowering to my thinking and understanding of feminist issues when I read it in the 70s. In fact, I think it was life changing in that it articulated what it is that women deal with.
A good collection of feminist writings from the 60s and 70s. I've read a lot of feminist essays and thought I understood what feminism was at that time. I learned so many new things.
2nd wave 101--in a good way
BAM! The politics of orgasm is something everyone should read. Male or female.
This is one of the first books of the second wave of the women's movement. Very important collection.
A classic! And, the nostalgia! A huge part of my life and also friends of mine at the time contributed articles. (It came out shortly before I met them.)
I'm sorry, maybe you don't think this is obvious, but we were brought up with a scrupulous regard for the idea that there are no more or less than people in the world and all are equal.
I never had an idea that any person wasn't equal, so it was hard to get really excited about women's lib.Not least because they did so many stupid things that stuck, like the anti-bra thing.
Like how fucked was that as an idea...let's get bunches of extra men to come and ogle.
When I first started it, I was taking it as a historical book, and was interested in learning about the women's movement at that point in time.
By the end of the book though, I was still haunted by Lucinda Cisler's questions from her essay, "Unfinished Business: Birth Control and Women's Liberation":"Will new developments simply make us more efficient sex machines in a world of unchanged sexist domination?...Will women now cease being instruments of production only to become equally passive instruments of diversion?
Or will birth control help liberate us by freeing us, for the first time, to realize our full human potential and with it to change society?"
With a collection like this you get a diversity of voices, which I appreciate.
There is a boldness in second wave writing that was missing in feminist thought for a long time with the cheerful populist 3rd wave and extremely complex academic 3rd wave.
Only recently with intersectional feminism in online spaces have I seen anything close to this kind of brave facing of the world and radical calls for change.
Second, historically, this book is huge for me.
Seeing the origins of second wave feminist thought all like this just fantastic.In short, one of my favorite books of second wave feminism.
I am old enough that when I read this book, all this was new and eyeopening and fabulous and, as we said then, "mind-blowing" This is the book which helped me start to be a real person.
It was a book I and all my friends were reading and discussing, having AHA!
moments about, learning that I was depressed so much because I was oppressed so much!
Phillis Chessler (Author of "Women and Madness", another life changing book for me) should have received credit for the Bibliography, and there was an unpleasant legal sorting out, in what I realize now was the court of men, not women.
Some of the essays in this anthology were a little dry for my personal taste, but this book is an EXCELLENT look back at the women's lib movement. I get the feeling that feminists my age (what wave are we on now? Third? Fourth?) forget our roots, apathy & complacency set in, and we end up conceding more than we ever intended. This is a good book to pore through and remember that the fight has come a long way, but is far from over.
A- Great history of 2nd wave
Started the revolution...
classic.
Love the variety of viewpoints in this collection.
Une fascinante anthologie de textes écrits à la fin des années '60, début années '70 où (pas mal) toutes les femmes parlent de pas mal tous les sujets.
On parle de la place des femmes dans les jurés, de l'enfantement, du racisme, du sexisme, il y a des chansons, des poèmes, des slogans, des références, des femmes de tous les horizons parlent, y compris des femmes de d'autres pays qui parle de la condition des femmes et du féminisme dans leur pays et leur perspective, des textes de toutes les sortes, très académiques et référencées à des textes plus libres, le travail d'anthologie de perspective de femmes ne pourra jamais être exhaustif, mais en lisant tous ces témoignages et recherches, on n'a pas l'impression d'avoir fait le tour, mais on a clairement l'impression d'avoir vu un panorama impressionnant de perspectives.J'ai honnêtement du mal à comprendre l'absence de traduction ou même de rééditions, ce livre est fascinant.
Wow, juste wow comme anthologie.
40+ years old and surprisingly pertinent.
Another book found in the trunk. My sister gave this to me when I was about fifteen. My copy is torn, dog-eared and highlighted. I wouldn't trade my copy for the world; too many memories.
"An entire book could, and should, be written on the psychology of contraception: it would treat the place of fatalism, of power relations and communication between man and woman, of basic attitudes toward sexuality, of hostility, aggression, and punishment in the sex act, and much more."This book may seem radical, but it's also chock full of insightful views on feminism, women in the workplace and at home, contraception, psychology, what equality looks like, and who profits most from women.
Sisterhood is Powerful (1970) an anthology of radical feminist writings edited by Robin Morgan - It is the first comprehensive collection of writings from the then-newborn contemporary wave of feminism. It became a best-seller in both cloth and paperback, its red-and-white cover with the feminist symbol (designed by Morgan) becoming a recognisable graffito around the world.
The classic. It is well worth reading for its own sake, but also interesting to compare the problems confronted thirty or forty years ago with today to compare and contrast. What has changed and what remains the same? Indeed, what has gotten worse in the fields of misogyny, sexism, etc.? Also checkout Sisterhood is Global.
Check out my tumblr for the full text of Laura Furman's A House is Not a Home: Women in Publishing.
essays,women's studies
