https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72676.Saturday_Night_and_Sunday_Morning
Alan Sillitoe aveva appena virato la boa dei 30 (anni), che assestò un uno-due micidiale alla cultura inglese, vecchia e borghese: prima questo romanzo, 1958, e poi una raccolta di racconti intitolata “La solitudine del maratoneta”, 1959, entrambi portati magistralmente sullo schermo, il primo da Karel Reisz nel 1960 (e fu il primo ruolo importante per Albert Finney, interprete perfetto), il secondo da Tony Richardson nel 1962.Una micidiale abbinata di colpi come i tanti pugni che distribuisce Arthur Seaton, protagonista di questo romanzo, espressione di una working class ribelle e vitale, e le pietre che scaglia contro il cielo colpevole di una vita grigia alla quale Arthur, scopatore senza regole e ubriaco senza limiti, non vuole rassegnarsi: catena di montaggio in fabbrica, sbronze serali al pub, e scopate rubate in vista di matrimonio e paternità, squallore a volontà.
The world was telling me I HAD to read it because I come from Nottingham and this is the big Nottingham novel, and I grew up working class, I knew people like these characters, and I would have been one of these characters if I hadn’t discovered how to pass exams early on.
Slung into khaki at eighteen, and when they let you out, you sweat again in a factory, grabbing for an extra pint, doing women at the weekend and getting to know whose husbands are on the night shift, working with rotten guts and an aching spine… well, it’s a good life and a good world, all said and done, if you don’t weakenI have to agree with everyone else, this is almost a must-read.
“Aquel mismo día, un año antes, había venido aquí con Brenda y se había caído por las escaleras como si fuera una bola de nieve tras beberse siete ginebras y once pintas. Vaya noche fantástica. Tenía el recuerdo guardado en lo más hondo de su corazón.” “Sábado por la noche, Domingo por la mañana”, un título magnífico para una magnífica novela que es un retrato magnífico de Arthur Seaton, un joven inmaduro de clase obrera en la Inglaterra de los años 50. Un individuo dominado por una rabia ingob
“Sábado por la noche, Domingo por la mañana”, un título magnífico para una magnífica novela que es un retrato magnífico de Arthur Seaton, un joven inmaduro de clase obrera en la Inglaterra de los años 50.
“Tipos con trajes y bombines nos dirán: «Estos chicos tienen sus televisores, dinero suficiente para vivir, pisos de protección oficial, y los fines de semana les damos cerveza y les dejamos jugar una partidita de billar… Algunos hasta tienen coches.
“For it was Saturday night, the best and bingiest glad-time of the week, one of the fifty-two holidays in the slow-turning Big Wheel of the year, a violent preamble to a prostrate Sabbath.
You followed the motto of ‘be drunk and be happy’, kept your crafty arms around female waists, and felt the beer going beneficially down into the elastic capacity of your guts.”Everybody wants to live easily and magnificently but the possibilities of every man are quite different.
With eleven pints of beer and seven small gins playing hide-and-seek inside his stomach, he fell from the top-most stair to the bottom.”A simple man needs simple delights and in this case, a catch-as-catch-can principle works best.
"Don't let the bastards get you down" - Arthur Seaton “For it was Saturday night, the best and bingiest glad-time of the week, one of the fifty-two holidays in the slow-turning Big Wheel of the year, a violent preamble to a prostrate Sabbath. Piled up passions were exploded on Saturday night, and the effect of a week's monotonous graft in the factory was swilled out of your system in a burst of goodwill. You followed the motto of 'be drunk and be happy,' kept your crafty arms around female waist
“For it was Saturday night, the best and bingiest glad-time of the week, one of the fifty-two holidays in the slow-turning Big Wheel of the year, a violent preamble to a prostrate Sabbath.
Piled up passions were exploded on Saturday night, and the effect of a week's monotonous graft in the factory was swilled out of your system in a burst of goodwill.
And so begins Alan Sillitoe's "Angry Young Man" debut novel about Arthur, a young factory worker in the north of England.
At twenty two he's the king of his little world, refusing to let anyone impose their laws on him.
At some stage or other his life begins to spin out of control, he is on a helter-skelter that will deliver him swiftly into the arms of retribution, but this almost seems to be no more than a blip, a minimal shift in his ambitions, his attitude remains: combative, recalcitrant, incorrigible.
The Angry Young Man. The question remains: why does he bristle with this over-weening sense of his right to take, take, take?
The world owes him.
Una pinta di birra tiepidaForse alla fine mi è piaciuta di più l'idea del romanzo che non il romanzo
Not one of my favourites from the Boxall 1000 list although it is certainly well written. Set in Nottingham in the 50's and early 60's it tells the story of a young factory worker Arthur Seaton. Unfortunately I didn't like Arthur as a character and found it difficult to empathise with him. I will say though that by the end of the novel you do feel that you've come to know Arthur, his thoughts and take on life intimately.A bleak novel in some respects.
First published in 1958 my edition is the 50th anniversary one.
It is set in the years immediately following the second world war, in a working class community which has now largely disappeared.
Its central character is Arthur, a 20 year old Lothario who works and plays hard.
There's lots to dislike about him: he is a cheat, with a cuckoo's preference for the marital nests of others.
He should get caught of course?...
I enjoyed the glimpses back at a vanished world – when the smoke really did get in your eyes!
We've still got cheats of course but they seem different now.

Thus this becomes a comment on the class system within Britain, Arthur seems reasonably smart yet has only received a rudimentary education and is stuck in a monotonous job with seemingly little chance of advancement.The prose is beautifully written with occasional streams of colloquialisms mainly from Arthur giving it a real authentic feel but despite giving his initials to his hero and after having himself worked in a factory the author has also insisted this was not autobiographical.
Writers like Dickens have written about the realities of working class life in Britain but this marked the start of a new age of literary realism and should be more widely read.
Bloody fools, but one of these days they'd be wrong.
I make up a quick picture of their stupid four-eyed faces that blink as they read big books and papers on how to get blokes into khaki and fight battles in a war that they've never be in -- and then I let fly at them.
Other faces as well: the snot-gobbling gett that teks my income tax, the swivel-eyed swine that collects our rent, the big-headed bastard that gets my goat when he asks me to go to union meetings or sign a paper against what's happening in Kenya.
Alternatively: misogyny, the novel. No, okay, although the main character is a dick, this book read really quickly and I found myself quite enjoying it. Despite the portrayal and treatment of women, that is.
Not really something I enjoyed reading. I disliked Arthur and the plot line wasn't too spectacular in my opinion
Wonderful illustration of northern working class life in the 1950s, as we follow the adventures of a young man who spends his days working in a factory and his free time drinking, living it up, or recovering. AS writes with dark humour in this gritty tale. It's worth looking beyond modern fiction to discover treasures like this.
Bettie's Books
Black and Tan swillin' blokes is where it's at! gin-soaked abortions and falling down the stairs at the Publick? Yes, please!
Ну такой, как Хемингуэй, но еще не разочаровавшийся
Sillitoe captures the life of a 24 year old perfectly here.
Its easy come easy go for Arthur and I remember feeling like that.
I think Sillitoe has a real knack of writing about the working class and I remember feeling just like Arthur and for a while its bliss.
The stress and fear of war and mandatory training is ever present and not something the British have to deal with these days and it must have added to the live fast die young lifestyle.
Sillitoe manages to wrap the short story up in a nice little package.

Some great phrases that speak to the truisms of the working man's life: "For it was Saturday night, the best and bingiest glad-time of the week, one of the fifty-two holidays in the slow-turning Big Wheel of the year, a violent preamble to a prostrate Sabbath.
Trouble is, I couldn't find it in me to care that much about the characters, they seemed more like the symbolic pawns of the author to prove his point.
Granted it was a novel point when this book was published, but all the same...
Arthur is frustrating, and appealing--despite his many shortcomings.
Reading this book, I was reminded of Rabbit Run, which I hated.
This book isn't nearly as sour as that one.
In the thick of the book, I felt like the story got slightly mired and slightly repetitive--like maybe 20 pages could have been sliced off somewhere in the middle.
While I realize it may not be important to the overall point of the story, I also felt a bit as though I wanted Arthur's relationship with Doreen to be developed a tiny bit more.
The book deserves a 3.5.
I think this book was originally written as two books: Saturday Night AND Sunday Morning.Sunday Morning was mind-blowingly fabulous.
Saturday Night makes you appreciate the finally coherenet thoughts of the main character in Sunday Morning.
Maybe there's a metaphor at work about being brought into the light of reason or being enlightened?Anyways, if you can struggle through the first 200 pages or so, the last 40 pages are incredibly rewarding.Psh...it only took me what...over 2 years to finish reading it?
:)(I think the author wrote SM and the publishes were like "psh!
This was a cracker. A bona fide work of blue-collar existentialism, full of unrefined rebellion and working class whit. I generally don't go for this kind of stuff - English novels about the working classes always make me feel a tad claustrophobic and/or depressed - but this had a real and palpable energy to it. Yes, it does have the slightly ragged feel of a first novel but that's part of what makes it great.
Had to read this for my English course, not a bad book, although I couldn't make myself care enough about the characters to get really involved. Worth a read and I would be interested in reading the follow-up book, 'Birthday'.
Beautifully written with provactive but unromanticised language throughout and bleak realism. Easily one of my favourite characters, Arthur Seaton, is the embodiment of the 50s Teddy boy: angry, frustrated, laddish, nihilistic, hedonistic.
Brimming with an honesty and energy which must have been a breath of mind-blowing fresh air when it first appeared in 1958, and not in the slightest dated now. A thoroughly absorbing tale and an opportunity to revisit a time when I was observing and aiming to absorb such attitudes.
This book made me want to drink a lot while reading it.
Don't let the bastards grind you down.
I usually avoid books centered on an unlikable protagonist, and Arthur is a bit of an asshole. Weirdly, though, I still enjoyed the book. :-) It's very much of a specific time and place and it was interesting to read about working class life in a post-war factory town. The Christmas scene in the second part of the book is just so delightfully bonkers. Different and good.
