https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/792938.Having_Our_Say
An absorbing, likable book about two aged sisters who tell the story of their family's rise from slavery to the ranks of the black middle-class. Particularly memorable on the Harlem Renaissance.
I don't know if this really a five star book, but I read it when it first came out, when I was in my early 30s, and I have often thought of it in the years since.
I wanted to read it again, so about a decade ago I picked up a copy and saved it for a rainy-day comfort/ inspiration read.
Well, now I'm using for a 'read a bestseller challenge' *and* for personal inspiration, and it's just as wonderful as I remember.
I love these women's voices, and love learning about history from their experiences.
And the pictures are interesting, in that they're family photos that also reveal history.
I felt as if by hugging the book I would have been able to hug these amazing centenarians!!
There are so many words of wisdom, so many observations and experiences, so much applicable insight I would like to quote, but I'll just share one that made me (and Doug) guffaw: "When Negroes are average, they fail, unless they are very, very lucky.
I'll give you one more quote regarding David Duke, an infamous racist: "....I'm just as good as an American as he is - BETTER!
Especially not YOURS."" Please read this book - you'll be glad you did!
Having Our Say is outstanding.
it gives you a better understanding of how it felt be be a black person in the slave days.
Having Our Say is narrated by two female black sisters.
they have been through many rough times and learned a lot together.
the touffest times that they went through happened when they were young.
even though they were mixed, they got no respect from the Whites.
and even some blacks did not respect them.
the two sisters never left each others sides.
these two ladies had a lot of potential to live and be happy.
I have had this on the shelf for a number of years since we saw a theatrical adaptation of the book. An interesting if not compelling story of two centenarian sisters and their family history starting back to the civil war. Their observations and way of life are most interesting. Anyone
I think that my favorite of the sisters was Bessie.
I think the book got more and more interesting as Sadie, and Bessie got older.
I liked how close their whole family seemed to be they all got along and looked out for each other.I really liked the book near the end when they got that nice house that Bessie found.
But they didn’t do anything to Sadie, and Bessie’s house because they would help the kids instead of just yelling at them.
Overall I think that this is a really good book.
A delightful read!
These two sisters lived remarkable lives and have much to teach about tolerance and perseverance.
The copyright on the book is 1993 and I wanted to find out what happened to these lovely ladies, so I Googled them and found they published a second book "The Delaney Sisters' Book of Everyday Wisdom" and inspired a Broadway play.
Bessie (Dr. Anna Elizabeth Delaney) passed on at age 104 in September 1995.
Delaney) wrote a final book "On My Own at 107: Reflections on My Life Without Bessie" before her death at the age of 109 in January 1999.
Warm, funny, heartrending, enlightening - the Delany sisters' book was just amazing. Because of their family and their own determination, these women personally experienced so much of the good and the bad of this country over a century of living. Reading about the Delany sisters and their family makes it impossible to jump to any quick conclusions about the experiences of African Americans. I would make this book required reading for all Americans.
Such as: “You see, when you are colored, everyone is always looking for your faults.
Now if you‘re average and white, honey, you can go far.
A lot of the things he said were true, but he said them so bluntly that white folks were scared to death of him.
It was easier for white folks to admire Martin Luther King, because he was less threatening to them.” and “For instance, everybody knew that Nestle’s would hire Negroes, but Hershey’s wouldn’t once I had encountered that, I used to walk through Harlem and scold any Negro eating a Hershey bar.
It is a captivating oral history by two sisters who lived to be over 100 years old.
Their father was born a slave, and their mother's parents - a mulatto woman and a white man - couldn't marry because state law forbade it.
Bessie became the second black woman to practice dentistry in New York.
Sadie became the first black home economics teacher in a New York high school.
It is a fascinating look at history through the eyes of those who lived it.
_Having Our Say: The Delany Sisters' First 100 Years_ (first published in 1993) by Sarah Delany, A. Elizabeth Delany Added 9/24/11November 2011: I listened to the audio version of this book. It was read by Whoopi Goldberg who did a great job of narrating the story about the two black Delany sisters who managed to break racial and gender barriers in the early 1900s. An enjoyable and uplifting read.According to Wiki, the authors were the aunts of science fiction writer Samuel R. Delany, the son of their youngest brother.
Each sister's singular personality adds a richness to the history and wisdom they share about being children of a man born into slavery in the southern US and a woman of mixed racial background who was born free who together raised their ten children -- all of whom became college educated --to survive and thrive in spite of barriers like Jim Crow laws and discriminatory societal practices.
What is it like for them to have lived so long?
There are answers to these questions and more in this gem of a book.
I finished this book and immediately wanted to know what happened next.
Sadie and Bessie Delany recall growing up with eight other siblings in turn-of-the-century North Carolina: their father was born in slavery, yet became the nation's first elected black Episcopal bishop; their mother could have "passed" for white but chose not to.With irrepressible pluck, the sisters confronted the first days of Jim Crow and legal segregation, and took part in the World War I-era migration North, rising to professional prominence during the heyday of Harlem.
This is a great read for any time, not just Black History Month.
I listened to this book a few years back and loved it, so I decided to read it.
These African American sisters lived through civil rights, the Depression, World Wars and Vietnam, as well as some personal family tragedies.
All 10 Delaney children were self-educated, professional, respected people- in a time when America did not value diversity.
It is actually the Delaney sisters' own words, documented by a journalist.
I found this account inspiring and thoroughly enjoyed reading it for the second time.
I loved the ending account of Bessie when she talked about the probability of ever having a black president.
The book focused itself on two women, women that had been alive for over 100 years.
I personally think that they acomplished something I could never have done, but the book was boring, slow, and not much action happened throughout the story.
Delany, and the other, A.
Elizabeth Delany.
"Having Our Say" told the true story of the two 100 year old women, word from word.Again, not much action took place in this book, so I would not reccommend it to Sci/Fi lovers or war-novel enthusiasts.
A person who likes non-violence stories, and is crazy about non-fiction, autobiographies, and biographies.
A book club choice that I vaguely remembered being a bestseller about 10 years ago (it was published in 1993).It was an interesting book, the story of two elderly Black women born in 1889 and 1891 and raised in a large, upper-middle-class academic family.
Both Bessie and Sadie put careers and their existing family before their own romantic relationships.
One became a dentist in Harlem, the other a schoolteacher.Their descriptions of Jim Crow, "rebby boys" (racist white boys), differences in their treatment based on shades of skin color, passing (and their mother's choice not to), slave & free ancestors, the Harlem Renaissance, etc.
Loved this book.
Sarah (Sadie) and Bessie Delany were two of the ten children of a former slave.
Both their mother and father were well-educated and passed on their love of learning and service to others to all ten of their children.
Sadie became an educator and Bessie, a dentist.
In the very last pages of the book, Bessie says, "I guess it will be a thousand years--probably never--before a colored person is elected president of the United States." That's when I cried.
Oh, Bessie, if only you'd lived a few more years!
I was intrigued by this book because of its subjects: two mixed-race sisters (who preferred to call themselves "Black"), both of whom lived to be more than 100 years old.
They were 102 and 100 years old when the book was written (early '90s), and their father had been born into slavery.
He was 8 years old when the Civil War ended, and went on to become the first elected Black Episcopal Bishop in the US.They discuss growing up in the South, their respective educations, and the Jim Crow years.
It's a fascinating perspective, made more significant to me because their father's enslaved years were spent in St Marys, GA, my maternal grandfather's birthplace.
This is a great book about two sisters and their whole lives. Bessie ans Sadie Delany learned to eeal with segragation as two strong 'colored' women. Nothing would stop them from doing what they wanted to do in life, not even racism. They would protest, go to court and do whatever it takes. Sadie and Bessies family motto was "Your job is to help someone" They both had helping professions (doctor and dentist) which were extremly hard to get back in the day as a colored women. I reccomend this book.x-Vasilia Hangemanole 299pages
I read this book and enjoyed it immensely. It's about 2 sisters who lived to be over 100. They grew up in a large family with their dad who was a former slave and minister and school teacher mother. It's history in the making and these 2 remarkable women are really fascinating. Bessie with her fiery, feisty attitude and the quiet Sadie. Both sisters have a great outlook on life and this is such a wonderful and must read. Sadie became a home economics teacher and Bessie a dentist. Really interesting, remarkable, and fascinating. A GREAT BOOK.
This was a fascinating read. I really enjoyed the format with the two sisters alternating their voices. I loved reading about their lives and how they persevered and didn't let the twists and turns of life bring them down. My mother lived to 97, and it was interesting seeing the parallels and differences between their lives in the black community and my mother's in the white community, both in the south.
Richland County Public Library is kicking off the first "The One Book, One Columbia" with this title. So far, this book has my hooked after the first 12 pages. If you live in Columbia, check this title out from RCPL. Even if you don't live in Columbia, I think this will be a great read :)Finished this book and I loved it. The stories told by the two sisters carried me through a hundred years of families in the North Carolina and New York.
This is probably one of my most favorite books. I will tend to agree when the young man said how the deaths of their siblings seemed so rushed, but I really enjoyed reading about these two sisters. That they made it to 100 and lived is a feat all it's own. that they even wrote a book about it is quite another.
4.50 stars - pg/pg13Loved these sweet, fun & feisty old gals who "tell it like it is"! They were mixed race descendants of slaves, who overcame and became highly educated, with good careers. Unmarried and both over 100 years old, they lived together and laughed together. Reading their story, I felt like I was sitting at their feet absorbing history and pearls of wisdom.
My mom gave me this book to read when I didn't have anything to read a while back and I was intrigued but not sure how much I would enjoy it. But, it was really interesting to learn about the struggles of the sisters along the paths of their long lives and how they've overcome trials. Not only was it entertaining but also educational.
An easy read. Interesting points of view from two sisters who are each over 100 years old...makes historical events a little more personal when you can read a first hand account of them. Much of the book is devoted to race issues.
I LOVE THIS BOOK! A fascinating look at a segment of our country's history through the lives of two strong, courageous, funny and feisty ladies who lived it. It left me smiling.
Loved the story of these spunky sisters!
In my opinion, I really enjoyed reading the book and my evaluation is five stars.
Bessie and Sadie are example of African Americans extraordinary independent woman who passed many obstacles to be successful.
the most thing that I like about them is their ways of taking care of themselves, they had healthy life style such as doing yoga and eating healthy food.
There is a lot of information about the history of African American civil war,and segregation I learned it from the book.
In addition, I like the way they grew up with love and their beliefs and strong faith in lord.
Having Our Say is the life story of two black sisters, as told by them, with assistance from Amy Hill Hearth.
Their life story begins with very early childhood memories, and the history of their ancestors.
I found this to be an extraordinary tale of the realism expressed by the Delany sisters, and the challenges and successes throughout their longevity.
I thoroughly enjoyed the depth of character and honesty revealed throughout this interesting book.
The generational history is a wonderful example of the issues that black people lived through from the late 1800s through the late 1900s.
