https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/215631.Pay_It_Forward

I saw the 2000 film adaptation of Pay It Forward in my health and human services class, so I figured I should read the book, and I can easily say that although the film was good, the book was better by far!
The characters feel much more real and "alive" in the book, the descriptions of everything are well-detailed and incredibly vivid, and the book itself is both depressing and very hopeful.
It's an excellent novel about selflessness, empathy and understanding, and about how we all have it in our own power to do the right thing and pay it forward.
I was moved to read this book after hearing a couple of people at work raving about it.I love the premise of the author's idea and how she goes about developing it within the story line.
It's like watching a row of literary dominoes fall, one on top of another; with the fall of each subsequent domino influencing the trajectory of the next and all those behind it.The story also has very important and inspiring message, one that it gets across without banging the book over your head, and that is that indivudally we can facilitate change in society one person at a time.
After reading it, in the space of about twenty-four hours, I am giving each family member a copy.It’s true I’m an avid reader and take great pleasure getting lost in a good story, but I don’t usually become quite so emotionally involved in a book that I burst into tears in just the first few pages.
Accepting an assignment to come up with an idea that can change the world, Trevor maps out a plan to help three people — really help them, to have a positive, life-altering impact — and then instead of asking those people to pay him back, require instead that they “pay it forward” to another three people, who then each will pay it forward to another three, and so on.
I found that to be the case here.The entire premise of the book is a Social Studies extra credit assignment to think of a way to better the world.
Trevor MicKinney takes the assignment to heart.
He then “Pays it forward” in such a way that it works it way to New York gangs and catches on like gangbusters.
The Movement, by the way, is what the gangs have taken to calling it.I hate reviews that spoil the plot so I won’t spell it all out, but it takes a while for Trevor to be recognized and when he is the reward is unjust.
A disfigured lonely war veteran, Social Studies teacher Reuben St. Clair, assigns an extra credit project to his class to change the world.
Most do nothing, but one 13 year old student Trevor comes up with a concept to "pay it forward." Out of pure kindness, he helps three needy people, with the caveat that they repay his gift by each helping three more people in need .
Meanwhile, Trevor lives with his mother, Arlene, who has been abandoned by Trevor's father and is also lonely.
Trevor thinks his project is a failure when one of his beneficiaries goes to jail and another dies.
In this exciting book a boy named Trevor gets a project from his Social Studies teacher to somehow change the world. But Trevor to this project to a totally different level then his teacher Ruben expected. Trevor decided to create a movement called "pay it forward." To help make the world a better place. This book talks about his journey along the way and how he pays it forward to society. I would most definitely recommend this book. It was a very inspiring and easy to read.
I almost never read paper books anymore, but my daughter had this laying around and I picked it up. I was immediately taken in.It is the Young Readers Edition, and I love the author's note that it had become historical fiction when she did the rewrite. Set in the 1990's with President Clinton and no cell phones and no internet to speak of, the story would have to be written completely differently if it were to take place today. Terrific, inspiring book. Yeah, "sappy" is an adjective that could also be used, but for some reason, I didn't mind.
A sweet little boy wanting to do better in the world by paying it forward.
I think it's wonderful that Catherine Ryan Hyde started the Pay It Forward Foundation.
The characters in the book are great in their own unique ways.
I loved when Mrs. Greenberg paid it forward by leaving her money to Matt, Terry and the cat rescue and her no good son she left a dollar.
I loved the stories of other people paying it forward.
There are people in this world that pay it forward in their own ways to this day.
I love it!
I remained glued for the few hours it took to read the book (oh I wish I could read more slowly!) and at the end - yes, it's a twee concept but it was a brilliant read and I wanted to know more about ALL the characters and if they were ok......So.....all we are missing for the world to change is a mysterious alchemical thing that would make it the right time for an idea like that.....sadly, human nature suggests that there's no more chance of it happening than the use of indicators while driving catching on!
I really wish the movie would have stuck to the characters/situations that were in the book. It's totally different from the movie but the same if that makes any sense. Reuben was just weird in the movie. In the book his character was really well written and more understandable than the movie. I wasn't as shocked at the ending in the book since I had seen the movie but then again the movie ended with Trevor. The book didn't. I'm really glad I read this book.
Set in California in the early 1990s, this book tells of Trevor, a 12-year-old challenged by his teacher to come up with an idea to change the world.
Unfortunately, the story was bogged down by an on-again, off-again romance between his mother and teacher that became extremely repetitive and took focus away from the central idea of the book.
I wish it had focused more on the boy’s idea and the creative ways people could perform good acts, but it seemed to focus mostly on “rescuing” people, either physically or financially.
A book that if the world we live in was the one Trevor wants for us, WOULD change the world.And it just could.
Initially feeling his attempts aren't going well, the reader is treated to narrations by those he meets and just how they react to Trevor's good deeds and what then happens to them.The story mostly stays with Trevor, his two-job-holding mum Arlene, and his Vietnam-vet teacher Reuben St Clair, and their changing relationships.
I am so happy to be a part of Catherine Ryan Hyde's read and review team in the UK.
I think most reviews have expressed what the book is about, and the extra challenge that was weaved in, Trevor taking this seriously did a superb job to change the world.
I kept thinking "out of the mouths of babes" another cliche was " from small acorns big trees grow".Its not often a book leaves me in tears.
I was so reading between the tears in my eyes.Catherine Ryan Hyde has such a unique style about her, there are a few authors that can do this.
3.5 StarsThis book hit me in the feels more than I expected it to. It is not just a piece of fluff, which is what I was admittedly expecting. If it weren't for the big question left dangling and unanswered at the end, I probably would have rated it a solid 4 stars.
I saw the film of this book A long time ago but can't remember it in detail only that the theme of course was the same.
The concept of paying it forward' is of course a wonderful idea and I only wish it was really true.
It is written in an unusual style in that the characters appear to be writing a diary in a way by entering their thoughts and experiences.
The ending has a definite twist which in a way felt almost contrived but not to most reviewers.
This is just my personal opinion and most reviewers have given the book five stars.
During this year his social studies teacher gives the class an extra-credit assignment to make a difference in the world.
Trevor took this assignment very seriously and decided to create a world changing movement called "Pay it Forward".
The book shows perspectives from his mom, to his social studies teacher, to people who pay it forward, and to important people who also take Trevor's idea to heart.
This book is perfect if you really want an eye opening book to show you that you should not take life for granted and instead just live life while you have the chance.
I can't believe it took me so long to actually come around to reading this book, especially because it's such a beautiful story, and it so wonderfully executed.
The world would certainly be changed if all of us Paid it Forward - that the action of doing good deeds for others without expecting anything in return was the norm.I have other books by Catherine Ryan Hyde which I am now eager to read.
Pay it Forward was coined by Lily Hardy Hammond in her book Garden of Delight in 1916, and was popularised as a phrase by Robert A Heinlein in his book Between Planets in 1951.Catherine Ryan Hyde's book of 1999 is a very well written, and plotted story of how a young boy endeavours to change the world.It is encouraging to read that on Pay It Forward Day 2018 there were 86 countries who took part.
I loved the story of these characters.
That being said, I think every great once in a while you can read a story as a adult that will strip away those layers of cynicism which wrap around our grown up hearts due to time and circumstance.
I felt the heaviness and struggle of each character easily.
I felt the optimism and hope for everyone as Trevor just as easily.
What a lovely feeling to experience.
I hope my efforts to find a story of this childlike hope and belief in mankind are well rewarded and soon.
I’d love suggestions.
Although I love Catherine Ryan Hyde novels, I'd never gotten around to reading her most well-known one until now. Its marriage of compassion, true-to-life characters, kindness, and engrossing storytelling has made Pay It Forward one of my favorites of hers. As is the case with most movies to books, this book is far superior to the movie version, which I now know took great liberties with the story. Highly recommended for those who love an uplifting story with more than a few tears.
Trevor spera quindi che l'uomo si innamori della madre, Arlene, rimasta sola dopo l'abbandono del padre di Trevor, Ricky.Con la simpatica vecchietta del vicinato porta al termine il suo progetto, ma l'inaspettata morte della donna, unito al fallimento della relazione tra la madre e Reuben, e all'incarcerazione di Jerry, gli fanno perdere le speranze.Quello che Trevor non sa, però, è che la vecchietta aveva già aiutato le tre persone che doveva aiutare, e che Jerry, una volta uscito dal carcere, ha mantenuto la promessa di aiutare altre tre persone.Trevor è di una dolcezza unica, sempre pronto a dare una mano e a lottare per quello che crede sia giusto.
I thought I'd "chill" and give this novel another try BUT I still find the book has no appeal for me.
I have found a couple other books written by Hyde to be stunning; profound; worth a second read but this novel leaves me going "huh?".
After a half dozen flips back and forth I had to get up and retrieve another cup of coffee and stand in the kitchen and ask myself yet again, what the hell is wrong with me that I don't like this book?
Yes it is cute that a young boy could potentially save the world and all that...yup...fairy tales have their appeal but I'm exhausted and perplexed and annoyed.
One of the most beautiful stories I've read.This is about a teacher who starts a new project in his class: each student had to create something they think could change the world.
That is when Trevor appears with a revolutionary way of spreading forgiveness and love.
Being a kind hearted, Trevor puts that in reality by helping 3 people: a random stranger, his classmate and his own teacher who was haunted by his past.
But not all people are as good as Trevor and on a tragic day, he is forced to leave his revolutionary project...But it doesn't mean things didn't continue to change...
I check off "books that made me cry" for any book that will bring a lump to my throat, even if there are no actual tears. This is one book, and the only book at that, that made me actually sob, put the book down and have a good cry, before picking it up to carry on reading. I've never found another book since then that has impacted me in the same way.
The writing was amateurish. Neat premise however.
The beginning was alright. The ending was heartbreaking. < / 3
A good story with a great concept...if only.
Just finished reading this with my son. A great book...especially the last few chapters. A great discussion followed on how he could make a difference. He even quoted Jane Goodall to me about thinking and acting locally. It was inspiring!
I remember the movie from when it came out almost 20 years ago. I didn't even realize it was a book. The movie was good, but the book is great.
