https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/816085.Harvest_Home
Bette Davis as the Widow FortuneSo I wonder as the town begins to drive a wedge between them, as the Widow Fortune makes herself indispensable, as Ned begins to discover the pagan secrets of the town, and finds himself locked in a struggle with forces as old as the Earth, will he look back on this moment of contentment with nostalgia or will it just make the losses he is about to experience all the more painful?The Widow Fortune wants control of Beth for reasons beyond anything a sane person could ever believe.
The story successfully blends mankind's (or perhaps womankind's ) oldest themes with small town New England life- in the most creepy atmosphere possible.
A slow burning tale involving a move from the city to a simple country life ruled by the land.
This is an example of why horror literature (that's right, I called it literature!), became so popular in America in the 80's.
Authors like Thomas Tryon sparked the imagination of those horror writers that became the mainstream later on, like King or McCammon.
Here, you can find the seeds of all that came later.
Evil in a small town?
A small family moves to the small village of Cornwall Coombe; strange things eventually occur.
But before that, Tryon really gets inside this village, inside of its people and traditions and all of the interactions and day-to-day minutia of life in this cozily endearing, intriguing, eventually very real place.
I lived in this village alongside Harvest Home's narrator, and much like him, I was at first fascinated and then came to love the experience.
(And also thrilled, but hey I'm not the narrator.)Here's an excerpt from an entertaining review that describes the horror and the style perfectly (click on the link to get to the full review): 

I wasn't sure if I'd be able to write this review, because after I finished Harvest Home, I curled into a fetal position and stayed there for three days.
And Harvest Home is terrifying in its tone, imagery, and plot.
I'm surprised Tom Tryon isn't as well known as Ira Levin and Stephen King as a master of horror, because this book is easily as good as the best of their work.
I'm eager to read his other books, but not before laying in a hefty supply of muscle relaxers and sleeping pills.
It seems completely out of character, given his concern for Kate at the beginning of the book, that Ned is not more concerned about her well-being in the middle and at the end.
Instead of trying to locate and extricate his daughter from the danger represented by the upcoming Harvet Home ritual (he does this in a shallow way during the dance scene, but it is never more urgently revisited as things go from bad to worse), he seems more interested in simply understanding the secret ritual being kept from him.Ultimately, the end works well and it is clear how many modern horror writers and film makers Tryon has inspired with this book.
The citizens of Cornwall Coombe plant corn, but also worship the planting and harvest times, as did the ancients in the time of the goddess Demeter.
Ned Constantine, his wife Beth, and their daughter Kate are "allowed" to move to the town and are welcomed as new citizens.
A story of carnal motivations, HARVEST HOME is a brilliant psychological adventure of seemingly antiquated individuals who might be something more than they appear to be.As Ned begins to piece together the lives of the people and the odd happenings surrounding Cornwall Coombe, the story reaches a chilling climax and a visionary conclusion.
Even when I finished this and few days had passed by, thinking about the ending and what all happened made me feel sad for (view spoiler)[Ned. What happens when the person you trust the most turns on you and knowing the betrayal you have got to still go on living with them!
The first 60% of the book is really slow and you have got to have the patience to continue it but in the last 40% it all comes together and is rather what I was looking for all along.After reading this book, I don't think I will be eating corn for a long time to come!!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Dude has some talent as a writer but dear god this was a slow moving story. I had to DNF halfway through. If it were any slower I could have accidentally traveled back in time. I can't risk that right now.
Creepily creative and extremely well-written, Harvest Home dives into the quaint small-town atmosphere and turns it into a nightmare. Definitely worth reading if you're a horror fan.
Taking place in the early 1970s, a couple (Ned and Beth Constantine) and their young daughter (Kate) move to the small village of Cornwall Coombe in New England.
I think most readers would not even see this as a horror book at first because you start to feel after a while you are just reading about the day to day happenings in a small New England village and that's for a good 80 percent of the book before things take a turn.The setting of Cornwall Coombe was perfectly done.
Ned and Beth Constantine decide to quit the rat race and retire to the country but have trouble finding just the right place for them until they stumble upon Cornwall Coombe, a picturesque New England village off the beaten track that evokes images of Currier and Ives at harvest time.
For a time life seems to be a dream for them but before long Ned starts to see oddities in the behavior of the villagers and the kindly village matriarch, Widow Fortune.
Bottom line: Even the second time around this was a great read, even though the character of Ned started to grate on me this time around.
If you want a creeping belly drop horror with no redeeming qualities or anything uplifting in the ending to relieve the stress, only one that leaves the horror intact...this is your book.It's not mine.I read this at a time of what might be called "undue stress" anyway and it effected me very badly.
I didn't read anything else by Tryon (though my wife wanted to see the movie of The Other, I found it almost as depressing and it was the movie) so...not my cup of tea, or hemlock if you will.
Man this book was awesome.
It had that magical feel in the beginning that was just beautiful and mysterious.
Though slow with the scares, when it finally came it hit you like a ton of bricks!
The mystery of Grace Everdeen had me guessing throughout and the ending is sure to blow your mind, even though it was predictable.
Thomas Tryon was a great treasure to find within the horror genre.
I continue to be entertained with his books and I certainly won't look at corn the same way nor will I envy simple living as much!
At least, not without thinking of this book.
This book remains one of the most unsettling ones I've read, due to the way the 'horror" creeps up on you. When you consider the year this book was written, it shows that Tryon really captured something unique for his time.Re-read 11/2014; rating stands at 5 stars. :)Re-read 9/2016; rating 5 stars. :)
The story itself moved pretty slowly, which I can deal with, but Tryon's long tangents about painting and scenery had me bored to tears, and I found myself skipping over paragraphs at a time.
The scene towards the end where he witnesses the secret ritual in the woods reminded me of Lovecraft.
The highlight of this whole book was a really bizarre and random two or three paragraphs describing violent hate sex between the narrator and the town whore.
There's no way to write a scene like that without it being really funny or really disturbing, and this one leaned more towards being funny.
As my partner did that, I looked around and saw in the passenger side rear view mirror a little girl standing across the street.
Being a fan of horror movies, I expected to turn around in my seat to find that there was no one really there, and then turn back and look again in the mirror only to have her right there next to my window.But she was really there, standing there across the street, staring at us silently.
I already want to re-read this it was that good. I developed a migraine, put the book down and didn't pick it back up for 7 days. So a re-read is definitely in order.This creepy story has me seriously reconsidering my move to a small town :O
Tryon's The Other and Harvest Home are two high-water-marks of twentieth century horror before Stephen King and after Psycho. Highly recommended... perfect reading for a cool, dark night!
Set in a sleepy Connecticut village, it kicks off with artist Ned, his wife, and their daughter ditching dirty old New York City for the rural paradise of Cornwall Coombe, which appears to be the town that time forgot.
Clocking in at over 400 pages, it’s the kind of leisurely read that reflects its setting, Cornwall Coombe, where nothing ever seems to happen faster than a horse-drawn cart, and where life is slow, gentle, quiet, and “real.” Fortunately, Tryon is a much more confident writer this time around and while there’s plenty of gasping and breast-clutching over nature’s beauty, it feels less jarring in a book that’s all about nature’s beauty being a dangerous deception.

A good tale well told.
Nothing profound just good clean fun in old school King/McCammon mystery thriller horror style.
Everyone is in on the joke except the narrator kind of thing.
The ending is telegraphed early on so there are really no surprises but it becomes a page turner nonetheless.Tryon throws us one red herring in the Soakes but you see through it pretty early and then half way through he just hands it to you.The key to a novel like this is characterization.
We need to invest in certain characters for the payoff to stick.
We need to care.
I still might change this to a 5 star.This is one of the best books I have read and its all because of a recommendation by my Friend Skye..Thank you Dear Lady:)Tryon seduces readers into a sense of contentment, then slaps them in the face with unspeakable horror. As we readers, along with the main character, slowly unravel a mystery, we become totally immersed in this page-turner written in 1973,
Alright all you nay-Sayers and "can I give this negative star" idiots...Put yourself in the shoes of readers 40 years ago.
This was what city-folk were doing in droves back then...they were tired of the hustle and bustle and wanted to experience "country living" so they moved out to, what we now call, the suburbs.
Eventually there were so many city folk moving to the country that the characters in this book died or assimilated.
This was an excellent portrait of country folk beating back ( and murdering) those that threatened their simple way of life.
If I wanted literature I would have re-read Dostoyevsky's The Idiot.
5 stars--yes! Ahh! Incredible! Trigger warnings for sexual violence and a slight dash of misogyny (a product of the time it was written, likely).My favorite genre--small-town villagers doing spooky, culty things. This is a mild and slow-paced horror novel--there's not a lot of scary stuff at first--but the ending is utterly perfect and terrifying.This book is basically a novelization of The Golden Bough, which I love. If you like folk horror, such as The Wicker Man or Children of the Corn, you'll likely enjoy this. I'm glad I finally read this classic!
Strange happenings in the New England farming village of Cornwall Coombe.
If you're a fan of the movies The Wicker Man and Children of the Corn, you might like this book, which has a similar theme.
I thought the book could've been at least 100 pages shorter, as the pace was very slow in the first half of the book.
(It picked up towards the end, though.) The characters were one-dimensional, so I really wasn't invested in what happened to them.
Parts of the story were more sexually explicit than I am comfortable with.
I think this book could've been alot better than it was.
Well written although it took quite a while to get into the story itself. Artist Ned Constantine his wife and daughter settle in the picturesque village of Cornwall Coombe. Unfortunately appearances are deceptive and life in Cornwall Coombe proves to be anything but idyllic. Didn't feel this was quite up to the standard of The Other also written by Tryon.
WOW at this book. it did not let me down. I'll write more later (on my phone at the moment.)
Some books have such compelling action that I get completely sucked in, reading to find out what’s next, what’s going to happen on that next page.
I first read this book when I was not quite a preteen, because it was all the rage at the time and my parents never noticed when I snuck their adult fiction off the shelf after they were done with it.
I was delighted to find it, and now I’m even more delighted after having reread it as an adult.
