https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36086.The_Ghost_Map
Or eating.This book is about cholera, and as a result, the author uses an impressive number of words for shit--including excrement, ordure, human waste, and the Victorian euphemism night soil.
He writes that cholera is "a supremely dark chapter in the book of death" and points out how wrong it is that people are still dying of this preventable, treatable disease.I learned that this is not a good audiobook to listen to when cooking dinner.
However, it is a great audiobook to listen to when cleaning.
Expecting a more straightforward account of the unraveling of this medical mystery, I set this book aside twice in frustration, bored with the author's tendency to stretch out the narrative, and particularly his repeated examination of the hold the "miasma paradigm" had upon medical minds in the mid nineteenth century.
His lengthy discussion of the bureaucratic obstacles faced by John Snow, the physician who linked cholera with contamination of drinking water with sewage, begins to wear thin about half-way through the book.
I read The Ghost Map: The Story of London's Most Terrifying Epidemic--and How It Changed Science, Cities, and the Modern World because I wanted to learn more about a story I thought I knew.
The story I learned goes like this: during a terrible cholera outbreak in Victorian London, Dr. John Snow made a revolutionary map of the mortality, was like, “Holy crap!
If the whole book had been like this, plus a few more maps (see 5, below), I would have closed it a happy nerd, indeed.2.The history of a classic scientific paradigm shift from the miasma (bad air) theory of cholera transmission to the waterborne theory, championed by Snow = EXTRA Fascinating.
Since alcohol is a poison and ill-tolerated by many, the speculation is that as agriculture and cities began to predominate, those who could tolerate alcohol better than others survived to reproduction age.In another of those little actions that are intended to benefit, but which have unintended consequences, the change in use of sewers in London, inadvertently laid the groundwork (pun intended) for the cholera epidemic.
As it had also been the source of drinking water, the transmission of the cholera bacteria was efficient and inevitable.Snow's rational approach to discovering the cause of the disease is remarkable in other ways.
Snow dedicated his life to the sciences, what he accomplished was nothing short of astonishing.
Loved all the extraneous information, how tea helped with the lessening of certain diseases, why the flow of the Chicago River was reversed, and info on why these diseases flourished in the first place and of how with current conditions in some third world country, it will happen again.Quitman informative book, at times too much information, learned more than I wanted to know about how waste was handled in the past.
The condition were nothing short of appalling.
This started out as an engrossing account of the filth and unhygienic conditions of Victorian London, where people literally piled shit in their basements, later to be removed by "nightsoil men" and a cemetery meant for 3000 bodies ended up containing 80,000 and gravediggers would jump up and down on the bodies in order to make room for more.
It sounds insane today that anyone could live in those conditions and what's more...WTF did Victorian London SMELL like?However, after about half the book the filler became obvious.
who knew i'd find a nonfiction account of the epidemiological history of cholera more interesting than most YA fantasy??this book was disgusting.
it was also SO FUN.
well, the first hundred or so pages were the funnest ever (five star level for real).
then the next one hundred were like...eh.
even more than usual.this is an impressive book and you should, at the very least, read the first hundred pages of this and then john snow's wikipedia page or something.bottom line: i guess i like historical nonfiction sometimes??
who knew!!!!!
I enjoyed most of the book, but I hated the concluding chapter. I would have preferred it if he had stuck to his subject rather than stringing together a series of personal opinions. The discussion of the relative risks of a nuclear holocaust versus bio-terrorism via a genetically engineered virus seemed forced. Does it really matter? The author somehow managed to work in references to both the Iranian nuclear policy and intelligent design in a book about cholera in the nineteenth century. Was there an editor?
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Except for the feeling of nausea that accompanies the reading at times, this is a very interesting book about the cholera epidemic in 1854, before the existence of bacteriology/parasitology.
It is also the epic tale of John Snow who almost single handedly kept track of contamination pathways, fought against the miasma theory and the biased and unscientific approach of his peers, tried to locate and define the germ and still kept his hat on like a gentleman.
Amazing true story, especially if you are interested in history of medicine.
John Snow is known as the father of Public Health and Germ theory, (in addition to his many contributions to medicine).
There is a fascinating section of this book in which those looking for an explanation of why cholera struck Soho at this time had created a checklist of facts they needed to investigate – these included spotting all of the places in the area where bad smells could be found, creating endless tables of the temperature of the air and wind speed and direction over the period of the outbreak – that is, check all of the things that would generally go to confirm that cholera is an airborne disease.
The spine of the book, and the best part of it, is the long detailed explanation of what Snow and Whitehead did to trace (not stop!) the cholera epidemic, ending with that famous pump handle.
I loved them -- they're seriously like little scientist versions of Holmes and Watson.
The history-of-science parts discussing the evolutionary shift in ideas about contagion are also quite good.
But the book falls down badly in some wild rhetorical thrashing about with regard to urban planning, city planets (or maybe it was planets of cities), biological terrorism, nuclear bombs (what), and how wonderful the internet is, and unfortunately most of that is the conclusion and epilogue to the book so that knocks off a star for me.
It's getting very old.It was interesting the way he points out how the cure for the miasma theory wound up causing more problems based on ignorance, yet ultimately led to Snow being able to gather the necessary statistical data to narrow down the actual cause, still without knowledge of bacteria.
It's hard to skim in an audio book, but the repetition was awful, so I supplemented with the ebook.
He reaches pretty far & it's not his area of expertise.Overall, this would have been an excellent book if it had been about half as long.
He tried to cover far too much territory & that led to a lot of repetition.
This starts out so well, with descriptions of the guys who used to scavenge in the sewers of London.
It then goes into the nitty gritty of where all those Londoners used to put their shit (basically a lot of them just piled it up in their cellars).
I love this kind of thing -- looking at the forgotten underside of a period or place in history.Unfortunately, Johnson runs out of steam pretty fast.
He repeats the same points over and over again about how crazy people were for believing that smells made one sick.
Pretty weak stuff.
Would've been much better if he stuck to the history.
In addition to talking about the disease itself (which basically causes death by diarrhea), the book follows the quest of a London doctor named John Snow as he propels the nascent science of epidemiology into its own.
But the team's tenacity and creativity won the day, resulting in the closure of the Broad Street pump, the avoidance of another cholera outbreak, and the iconic map of cholera deaths from which the book takes its name.In addition to this central story, Johnson talks about related subjects, such as the London underclasses, the sociology and civic engineering of large cities, and the new London sewer systems.
This extremely violent strain captured the attention of a physician, Dr. John Snow and a local curate, Rev. Whitehead...how were people catching this deadly disease?
The common belief in the medical community was that of miasma...in other words an air borne disease arising from the horrible stench that hung over certain areas of London.
They traced the infected water supply to one public pump where the majority of the people in the affected area drew their water.
Although Dr.Snow and Rev. Whitehead did not find a cure for cholera, they created the engine that drove the discovery of treatment.
The sections of the book about evolution of microbes and human city living are 6 star.
Many dead in twelve hours, 100's more in 48.Not only does this clearly draw the evidence for this particular high mark in perception needed at this specific time in history for water borne pathogens, but the book also completely demonstrates how the "truth" if it is a "whole piece" world view is often just not.
This has applied to nearly every economic, scientific and logical "truth" outside of the hard sciences at one time or another.

The filth and desperation of early Victorian London is laid bare in graphic terms, as is the prevailing medical knowledge (and how close it was to the breakthrough it needed is near heartbreaking), and the ultimate victory, symbolised by the simple removal of a pump handle, provides all the vindication necessary - even though for one of the heroes of the story it's posthumous.
The wonderful story of how one medical breakthrough changed the world to the one we live in today, and how medial science took to its feet and defeated one of the scourges of the nineteenth century.
One everyone with an interest in history needs to read.
This is one of the best nonfiction books I've read in awhile. It's about a cholera epidemic in London in 1854, and the author does a great job of explaining the various factors that helped cause the outbreak, including a population explosion and the lack of a proper sewage system. The book follows Dr. John Snow, who was the first person to identify that cholera was spread by contaminated drinking water. I would recommend this book to history buffs, fans of epidemiology and also Anglophiles, because it brings Dickensian London to life.
In the The Ghost Map: The Story of London's Most Terrifying Epidemic - and How It Changed Science, Cities, and the Modern World, Johnson has written a history with a number of check marks.Accessibility?
Johnson also used a report prepared by Dr Snow's nemesis Mr Edwin Chadwick, a social reformer who insisted it was a miasma, a bad smell.What I would have liked to have seen: The Voronoi diagram that Dr Snow presented to the Cholera Inquiry Committee visually showing where Londoners of Soho got their water.
This turned into an interesting look at issues caused by the growth of cities.
The book continues by following the actions of Dr. Snow and Mr. Whitehead as they look for the cause of an outbreak of cholera and eventually trace it to a particular pump supplying drinking water to a neighbourhood.
The book then goes on to explain the construction of the London sewers and the healthier conditions caused by their construction; including no more cholera outbreaks in London.All in all, an interesting book but a bit stretched out.
"If we're going to survive as a planet with more than 6 billion people without destroying the complex balance of our natural ecosystems, the best way to do it is to crowd as many of those humans into metropolitan spaces and return the rest of the planet to Mother Nature." p233I thought his view of the future of biological defences was interesting, with him suggesting that vaccines will be able to be developed by plugging details of DNA/RNA of pathogens into a computer model and thereby produce a suitable defence and/or cure.
While the story of Dr. John Snow's efforts to trace the source of cholera in 1850's London was fascinating, what delighted me about this book was the way Johnson also pulled in perspectives on scientific progress, impromptu infrastructures, the evolution of metropolitan life, the limits of city size, and the sorts of ingenuity that amateurs can contribute toward solving really big problems.
(There is a lot of poop in this book.)He also discusses the impact of confirmation bias and how it hindered Dr. Snow's progress.
The miasma theory, which suggested cholera was spread through "bad air," was prevalent at the time, and it was very difficult to change peoples' minds about it.
1854 London, overcrowded with people, industry, with the lack of a good water supply and sewage disposal. Just the right ingredients for a cholera epidemic. This epidemic (one of the most deadly in London) brought together two unlikely people, a doctor and a minister who worked together to solve the mystery of where the epidemic started. Ultimately it led to the discovery that cholera was spread by contaminated water. In the following years London changed its practice of sewage disposal and water supply which then spread to other large cities.
So, somewhere, I think it was around the time the narrative moved towards the accounts of the resistance to new scientific medicine theories, (germ theory) I started to feel like I was reading the same sentences over and over and over again, (which I do sometimes) but it was actually new sentences with the same words slightly re-arranged.
Which actually was starting to feel offensive, because I understood pretty well the first time around, he gave great descriptions in making his points or claims - no need to repeat.
At its best, this book is a sort of non-fiction history/science mystery thriller, following Doctor John Snow and the Reverend Whitehead as they try to piece together the complex origins behind London's 1854 Cholera outbreak, in which hundreds of people died in the span of a few weeks.
Now imagine all your favorite Dickens and Londen-lodged Austen characters living like that because...well, now we know why all that is just skipped over in fiction, right?
This book starts out as a fascinating exploration of poop disposal, or the lack thereof, in mid-19th century London.
London was a stinky, poopy place.The total free-for-all of sewage disposal led to several devastating outbreaks of cholera during the period.
Due to the hard work of a doctor and a minister, one particular outbreak was traced to a particular pump from which people got their drinking water.
"Ghost Map" is a fascinating look at the scientific process at a time when science was hit or miss.The author does lose focus at the end and his epilogue makes very little sense.
Then Johnson took the implications of John Snow's work way too far and it just didn't work for me.
And given that, in this book, the last two chapters -- out of ten -- focused on that, it's hard to ignore.
Other than that, it was an interesting book.
John Snow was way ahead of his time in many ways and was an impressive man.
And he was a man far ahead of his time.
By the time his peers could appreciate him and his work, he was gone.
On August 28, 1854, working-class Londoner Sarah Lewis emptied a bucket of waste water into the cesspool of her squalid apartment building and triggered the deadliest outbreak of cholera in the city's history.
This is the story of two men: Dr. John Snow who pioneered the use of ether as an anesthetic in the United Kingdom, and on a personal note, mentions the first medical use of ether by Dr. William Morton; and the Reverend Henry Whitehead, an Oxford-educated young man whose Anglican calling did nothing to abate his fondness for London taverns.
From Snow's discovery of patient zero to Johnson's compelling argument for and celebration of cities, this makes for an illuminating and satisfying read.
