https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11096912-benighted
BENIGHTED, by J.B. Priestly, is a novel that was originally published in 1927, re-issued by Valancourt Books in 2013, and reprinted in 2018. This version includes an introduction by Orrin Grey. There is a film based on this novel entitled The Old Dark House, that was released by Universal Pictures in 1932--at the height of the "dark house" phase in literature and film. ". . . It's our flesh . . . the jellied stuff that rots so easily, which quivers and creeps, goes goose with fright; but our bon
BENIGHTED, by J.B. Priestly, is a novel that was originally published in 1927, re-issued by Valancourt Books in 2013, and reprinted in 2018.
The story begins in the classic fashion with a group of people caught out in a sudden storm.
Suppose the people inside were dead, all stretched out with the lights quietly burning above them .
You have your "everyday" people (the travelers), and the mysterious residents--the Femm family--in the gothic mansion.
Through cryptic comments, the jumpy, inhospitable hosts, and noises that do not come from the raging storm, the characters realize that there are more things to be frightened of "in" their supposed sanctuary .
The Old Dark House is one novel any horror literature fan should take the time to read.
Written by J.P. Priestly in 1927, it was published in the United States as The Old Dark House, but originally as Benighted (the title you can find it at through Valancourt Books).
And Penderel, a veteran, is still suffering from seeing his comrades mowed down in WWI.Here's a good example of how Priestly manages to take a character who might be a boob in any other story and give him depth: ‘Unless you’re very lucky,’ he began, ‘you only make money by wanting to make it, wanting hard all the time, not bothering about a lot of other things.
Die Straßen werden überflutet und von Schlammlawinen unbefahrbar gemacht und kaum ist den drei Notleidenden widerwillig Einlass gewährt worden, finden sich zwei weitere Reisende schutzsuchend bei den Gastgebenern ein, einem hassenswerten ältlichen Geschwisterpaar mit einem gewalttätigen trunksüchtigen Koloss von Diener ("Sehr stark, sehr dumm und stumm") und einem verrückten Bruder, einstweilen noch eingeschlossen im Dachzimmer.Die Reisenden finden sich in einer extrem klaustrophobischen Situation wieder mit ausgeprägter Symbolik des Unterbewussten, im Haus gibt es keinen Strom und nur wenige Kerzen; dafür aber eine Vielzahl an verschlossenen Türen und eine Treppe, die bedrohlich in Richtung Dachgeschoß und Wahnsinn führt:"Die Treppe wand sich in der Dunkelheit weiter, es konnte nicht mehr lange dauern und sie würde oben angelangt sein.
Now available:HardcoverWebsite | Amazon US | Amazon UKPaperbackWebsite | Amazon US | Amazon UKEbookWebsite | Amazon US | Amazon UKAudiobookAmazon US | Amazon UK | Audible
The back cover blurb says it's a "classic 'old dark house' novel of psychological terror." And indeed, director James Whale in 1932 would adapt Priestley's story and create a movie called "The Old Dark House," which I watched directly after reading this novel.
Whale is good at creepiness and atmosphere, but he also plays parts of his adaptation for laughs, so the movie becomes a very mixed bag, sadly without the whole existential feel created by Priestley.
There are some moments of mild terror and creepiness that come into this novel, but if you're expecting Whale's "The Old Dark House," forget about it.
One of those was Benighted, his entry into the then popular genre of the Old Dark House horror story.
The novel was retitled The Old Dark House for U.S. publication and filmed under that name by James Whale in 1932.In an Old Dark House story, a group of mismatched characters, friends or strangers, finds themselves stranded in a large, spooky structure, usually during a storm.
It underlies a film like Alien, and recently reached its postmodern apotheosis with A Cabin in the Woods.The young Priestley created a classic setup.
Read the novel, watch the movie.
Priestley's insight into the psyches of his characters is profound, and at times I marveled that this had been written in the 20s, some of the psychology seemed so modern, and yet so timeless simultaneously.
I was left with a feeling of sadness when it ended, and only wished the best for the characters, who I grew to know and like very much in a matter of only 152 pages.
I also greatly enjoyed Priestly's brand of dry British humour.
Now I must seek out the 1932 Universal film THE OLD DARK HOUSE, that was based on this book, as well as more books by J.B. Priestly!
I bought this book because I enjoyed the James Whale film adaptation, The Old Dark House.
Atmospheric and amusing as the film is, the book (naturally) is better.There are no gruesome shocks in the way of modern horror but, if you let your imagination put you in the shoes of the lonely travellers who find themselves stranded in the strange old Femm house, it is really creepy and horripilating.Priestley is able to go inside his characters thoughts and history in much more depth than Whale was able to do, and this is where it steps ahead of the film.
In the time since I first read this book, it was acquired for reissue by the fine folks at Valancourt Books, who were kind enough to ask me to do the introduction for it, which I was more than happy to do.
I'm proud as punch to have this be the first book I was ever asked to write an introduction for, and I really couldn't think of a better one.

Far less overtly horrific than I expected, but expertly written character drama, featuring some extraordinarily insightful dialogue, and hauntingly tense plotting make this a classic of the old, dark house sub-genre. Excellently done.
Back in 2003, I first saw the original 1932 film THE OLD DARK HOUSE, and I desperately wanted to read the original source material, BENIGHTED.
As the mystery of the house comes to a head, the ideal of who they want to be plays into the resolution.Although fans of the classic motion picture will find much to enjoy...in fact, much of the dialogue and most of the situations from the book appeared on screen...the novel provides a number of surprises (including a more realistic ending) and a very welcome fleshing out of the characters.
This old book surprisingly does little to date itself and has great messages, in addition to being quite entertaining.
If I were you, I'd read the book first, then rent/buy the movie with Boris Karloff.
Movie/book spoiler: (view spoiler)[The movie has a Hollywood ending, and is funny at times because some of it is ridiculous Hollywood glamour which is out of place with the setting, but was typical for movies of that time.
The book doesn't have a Hollywood feel, nor the same ending as the movie.
Otherwise, the movie follows the book nearly word-for-word.
This is the third book by Priestley I have read- the others being the novel 'the magicians' and the collection of short stories 'the other place'.
I have never been disappointed by his writing- his style, use of language, plotting and characterization are all excellent.This short novel is no exception.
I couldn't keep from reading it- it was compulsively well written.
It is an early novel by Priestley, and a 'old dark house' tale: a group of travellers take shelter in a mysterious house, possessed of eccentric inhabitants.
SPOILERS:--The way the men sometimes try to protect the women may ruffle some modern feathers.
Also, one of my pet peeves is when characters act as though a woman (or even a child, for that matter!) can't contribute to the fight against the Bad Guy. Two strong, healthy young women could probably have helped Penderel fight Saul-- cracked him over the head with something, while the two were struggling-- something!
I guess he assumed that by that time the two other men would come along and stop him, but if it hadn't worked out, the women would've been locked in that room, doomed to burn to death.
I love stories about old, scary houses, and this book inspired a 1930s film, "The Old Dark House," which gave birth to a whole genre of movies.Benighted is the tale of people stranded by a horrendous storm and flooding in a remote corner of Wales.
Their place of refuge is an ancient, dark, creepy old manor house inhabited by four of the strangest people you'd never hope to meet.
I can see what Priestley was trying to do: the house had such an effect on these people that their attitudes began to change about what they wanted from their lives, but it was just too much-- especially since I didn't particularly like any of them in the first place.
I've read a lot of Golden Age crime fiction recently and thought I'd give this one a go, JBP having the extra attraction of being a 'real writer'.I wasn't impressed.
The writing is slow and descriptive, unsuitable for the type of story it was trying to tell.
This is THE cardinal sin for thriller writers IMHO.On the positive side, the writing is more than accomplished, the characters were memorable and, given the time and distance between us, believable.
But that's about it.I had another of Priestley's books, The Magicians, lined up as my next read but I think I'll give that a miss now.
"This is yet another book which I have spent my precious reading time on this year which features a Party of Roving Twits.
You probably know the kind, even if you haven't read any of the abominable thrillers of the '20s and '30s which feature the archetype (and which I keep reading because I'm an idiot with high hopes).
Everyone who isn't a pretentious asshat is foppish and disengaged to the point of inducing aneurysm.
I hate books where all the women do is scream and all the men do is make faux-Wilde pithy observations on everything.
A beautifully written and charmingly amusing, and perhaps definitive, 'old dark house' tale, with viewpoint chapters allowing for a Freudian depth of character which underpins the post-war allegory and social comment which was Priestley's intent, accentuated by the climax, which avoids the somewhat clumsier happy ending of the film.
Definitely a page turner. The writing style connects chapters in such a way that you 'must' continue reading.Read for personal research. I found this work of immense interest.I found this book's contents helpful and inspiring.Overall, this work is also a good resource for the researcher and enthusiast of this genre.
So wordy, so literature, and read more like a classic play than a novel. It was not at all scary for me and lost its atmosphere towards the end, but the characters were endearing enough to carry it through.
I, of course, have written introductions for a number of the books of John Blackburn (Bury Him Darkly, Broken Boy and Nothing but the Night for starters), but there are plenty of other intriguing books that Valancourt has been releasing, as well.One that caught my eye was J.B. Priestley‘s short 1927 novel Benighted.This was the second novel of J.B. Priestley (1894-1984), a prolific author who published 26 novels during his lifetime.
It was with his third novel, The Good Companions, that Priestley achieved major success, but Benighted was significant in its own right, being made into the 1932 film The Old Dark House, starring the iconic Boris Karloff.What is it about?
One of my Halloween traditions is to watch the pre-code film “The Old, Dark House.” I didn’t discover this until I was an adult due to the film having been lost for many years.
This year I noticed that the film was based on an a book, so decided to seek it out as I wondered if there were some details in the book that the movie chose to leave out.
I also find this to be one of the few instances where the movie is much better than the book, the book being more tragic.
I’m not sure I would have enjoyed the book as much as I did if it wasn’t for having seen the movie.
In a nutshell: Two groups of travellers seek shelter in an old mansion in the mountains of Wales when the road washes out during a rainstorm.
The mansion is occupied by the eccentric Femm family, who reluctantly admit the travellers to their home, and their mute servant Morgan.
The travellers become increasingly uneasy about their situation as Morgan becomes drunk, their hosts hint at the danger they are all in and their behavior becomes increasingly bizarre, and the lights go out.Some great descriptions and observations from Priestley, but this one didn't wow me.I might have enjoyed this more if I read it when I could sit down and finish it in one sitting...and maybe if I could have conjured up a rainstorm.
Good read.
A real "old dark house" thriller.
In fact "The Old Dark House" was the title used in the 1932 flick starring Melvyn Douglas, Ernest Thesiger and Boris Karloff.
Hard book to find when I read it several years ago, but I see it's been published again and is available on Amazon.
Standard genre plot of travelers being stranded in a downpour and seeking shelter in a Munsters TV episode type mansion.
Naturally the house is full of creepy occupants and a maniacal deformed butler.
Well worth reading if you're a horror or gothic fan.
And I heartily recommend (being an avid Karloff fan} seeing the movie.
The writing gets four stars with a fifth for such an excellent premise. The creepy old house, the nutball family, the menacing, dumb brute of a butler. The stranded travelers stopping for the night.. I love the setup so much.The writing starts off light and breezy, and is thoroughly enjoyable, but the pace and quality slackens off in places, particularly (curiously) in scenes with two of the women by themselves. At a couple of places, the reading was laborious, and I'm disappointed that the narrative didn't grip me completely the whole night through.
Priestley's second novel, published the same year as his first (Adam in Moonshine) although he'd been writing other books for several years. The whole story takes place over one night, 2 groups of travellers are stranded at an "old dark house" where they begin to realise that the inhabitants aren't quite all that they seem. This isn't however really a horror/ Thriller novel although there are couple of exciting chapters, Priestley is more concerned about the group of travellers and why they are what they are.
Would have been a 4 star, but it does have a really quite archaic attitude to mental health that I find it a little hard to overcome. I'm being a stickler though and in terms of being a good mystery book, Benighted definitely fits the bill and I did find it eerie, atmospheric and entertaining.
Actually, I would give it 4 1/2 stars...read it because it's the book that the movie The Old Dark House is based on (which got me on my passing Priestley kick). Had to have it special-ordered from my library, since copies apparently are sparse.
