https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/941136.Waltz_into_Darkness

Творбите на Улрич са обичани от Холивуд - цели 25 от тях са били превърнати във филми, включително и този му роман (няма да издам кой е филмът, но също не е никак лош, макар и по-различен от книгата).Авторът е майстор на психологическият трилър, има отличен стил, а героите му са абсолютно пълнокръвни създания.Разнася се беззвучна музика.
Романът ми достави голямо удоволствие, обичам елегантния изказ на Улрич и я препоръчвам силно на читателите, търсещи добре изпипана криминална и любовна история едновременно.Беззвучната музика спира.Танцуващите фигури клюмвати се отпускат като попарени.Валсът свършва.Има я в Читанка:https://chitanka.info/text/26984-vals...
This novel, published under his pen name, William Irish, in 1947, is not in print or even available for e-reading. I bought and read a very old copy. It is unusual for Woolrich, perhaps, in that it is historical fiction, taking place in New Orleans in 1880. But this works for him and it is a very Cornell Woolrich book. About an innocent man taken in by crime and sin and unable (unwilling) to escape. It is great, though a bit too long, until the end, which I found confusing and false.
La sirene du missiissippi=Waltz into Darkness, Cornell Woolrich, William Irishعنوان: پری دریایی مس سی سی پی؛ نویسنده: ویلیام آیریش؛ ترجمه به فرانسه: ژرژ بلمن؛ مترجم از فرانسه: مهراوه فیروز؛ تهران، البرز، 1387، در 274 ص؛ شابک: 9789644426124؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکاییوقایع رمان در دهه 40 و 50 قرن بیستم و در آمریکا میگذرد، دو فیلم از این کتاب اقتباس و ساخته شده، فیلم فرانسوی به نام همین کتاب و دیگری فیلمی امریکایی با عنوانoriginal sin
The movie "Original Sin" with Angelina Jolie is based on it so I had to read this book;-)It`s a really good book and Cornell Woolrich is a"worth to read" author
The movie "Original Sin" with Angelina Jolie is based on it so I had to read this book;-)It`s a really good book and Cornell Woolrich is a"worth to read" author
Julia/Bonny, however, has more depth than other characters of her type—since she is revealed early on as a thief and liar, the reader doesn’t have to spend a lot of time wondering when she will show her evil, but rather is given a few hundred pages to watch her vacillate between the world she is comfortable in, that of con games and crime, and that which she aspires to, the high class life of New York fashions and fine dining.
Mich dürfte meine Enttäuschung gar nicht verwundern, konnte ich schon nichts Truffauts Verfilmung "Das Geheimnis der falschen Braut" abgewinnen und dass obwohl er zu meinen Lieblingsregisseuren zählt.Aber nach dem begeisterten Lesen zweier Woolrich-Bücher wagte ich nun das Unterfangen.
- Die Idee an sich fand ich originell: Ein Mann wartet am Hafen auf das Schiff mit seiner Verlobten, die er bislang nur von einer Fotografie kennt.
Aber statt ihrer taucht eine ganz andere Frau auf, die sich als eben seine Braut ausgibt und die er schließlich auch heiratet.
Endlich nahm die Handlung an Fahrt auf, vor allem als weitere Charaktere ins Spiel kamen: die Schwester der wirklichen Braut und ein Privatdetektiv.
Post-Civil war tale set in the capital of all disguises, New Orleans, about a woman who is not all she seems. A lonely man marries a woman he barely knows (they correspond a lot, like mySpace), and she keeps leading him on and disappearing. All signs lead to her running off with his money but she keeps coming back acting mysteriously. I was engaged at the beginning of the book, but clocking in at 312 pages made it a little too long to keep me involved. At half the length it would have been a better book.
After I finished reading A Reliable Wife, I read a few of the reviews on Amazon.com.
In both novels there is another man in the bride's life and poison eventually comes into play, but these points are handled very differently.
The brides each have canaries as pets.When I first finished this book, I gave it four stars--I really liked it.
The chapters are short, sometimes only two pages, inviting you to read the book one nibble at a time.
My biggest complaint about the book is that when people are shot, they bleed.
I've seen many old movies where people get shot and manage not to bleed.
3.5/5 - I enjoyed this - I have seen the movie so so many times and have always loved it...FINALLY tracked down the book and although it followed pretty closely to the movie for the first bit it veered off and went its own way after awhile. It lacked the sexiness and passion that the movie had (I'm sure that was just thanks to Angelina Jolie and Antonio Bandaras) but it was still a good story. Love can be a powerful thing and make you do things you never thought you would... Glad I finally got to read this.
The movie Original sin is based offthis book I love the movie and the cinematography of it. The book was hard to get from the library it was out of print. The story in the book is the same but I like the movie better ( usually I like the book better) The physical desciption of Julia is not in likeness to Angelina Jolie so I didn't like that. The book was great and a must read I would love to find a hardcover copy.
finished at last! ang hirap talaga magbasa ng ebook, nakakaantok sobra.  i read this title sa isang book ( i think sa 50 shades of grey).mahirap mahagilap yung book mismo kasi super luma na to. ayun, parang Original Sin (Antonio Banderas and Angelina Jolie) yung story, kaso dito sa book namatay si Louis Durand (Banderas sa movie) and compare sa movie mas pinahalagahan yung alibi ni Bonny Castle (Jolie). Not sure kung nag movie tie-in sila, pero same characters as far as I remember e.
I liked the movie better, Original Sin (Angelina Jolie & Antonio Banderas) The story in the movie take places in Cuba and the cinematography is great. The book is a great story but seeing the movie first, I was disappointed with the physical descriptions of the characters in the book.... ( not into waspy blondes)
This is not a love story but a story how love can change everything. This is a story about a fallen woman and how she deceived a man and married him. She was beautiful and captured his heart. At the beginning, he didn't suspect anything. But when the awful truth came out. How blind he was! His life has turned into a nightmare. You have to read this book to find out what that is!
A fantastic read, read it several times ( before the movie came out), reread it recently again. Great narrative, feels like you are there with characters throughout the whole book.
very different than Bride Wore Black - really a great story of a life mis-lived and and love found too late. But again with the weird ending and dragging it on for too many pages. Woolrich is certainly more verbose than Chandler and I like his writing...he just struggles at the end for some reason.
Жените, жените... Ах, ангели са те...
His fiancée died on the eve of their wedding years ago, and he has not found love again, but he is now awaiting the arrival of the woman he is going to marry, who he has never met but has corresponded with.
But when the river steamer from St Louis arrives, she is not aboard - or is she?
Before long, betrayal ensues and he believes he now hates her, but his own romantic weakness will ultimately destroy him.This is the story of a love that can see no reason, literally.
I was not wowed by this effort by Woolrich.
Part of the problem may have been that I've seen Woolrich play this game before and the change in setting really wasn't enough to differentiate it.
More likely it's that Louis Durand was just profoundly stupid.
Durand might as well have just gone through the book with blinders and a "kick me" sign on him.
You can't have sympathy for someone who works this hard to get his ass kicked emotionally (not to mention financially).
It's got enough of the Woolrich positives to make it worth a read.
But it is far from his best work.
This book was just terrible. I was enjoying it in a B movie kind of way but it got too bad even for that. The tone was very reminiscent of old 40s and 50s movies. The very short chapters were literally like scenes from those old movies before they had quite figured it out as a story-telling medium. It was entertaining for a while but lost its novelty very quikly and just wasn’t worth the read. Not a good book.
The movie followed this well, but there were some mix up in the scenes and when/where things happened or was said.The ending is different as well.Glad I watched the movie first for this, though. There is much scenery detail; it either bored or confused me. I just skipped over it and imagined the movie scenery instead.
Book upon which one of my favorite movies, Original Sin, was based. It was a little weird to read the tiny (and sometimes big) differences between the two.There's also a French film version from 1969, La Sirène du Mississippi, which I'll Netflix shortly.
Saw the movie today...it was pretty intense.
Don't understand why this title is not as popular as many of his other books. Classic noir, great language.
orginal sin or some thing like that????
its a good movie
The movie "original sin" was great but I have to say the book is really captivating & enthralling it goes into such depth.
I liked this. It was very involved with who the characters really were, and I was intrigued by the ending.
Read my review at my blog.
Also liked the movie with Angelina Jolie and Antonio Banderas.
