https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65954.Up_a_Road_Slowly
Whether it was because the book came from such an influence in my life or because I was still emotionally raw when I read it, (or maybe because it's a Newberry Award winning novel,) Up a Road Slowly struck a chord within me that has never ceased to play on my heart.
I try to read it once a year or so, and nearly twenty years later, it still speaks to me.Up a Road Slowly is the coming-of-age story of Julie Trelling, a girl of seven who's sent to live with a spinster aunt in the country after her mother's death.
Julie's family supports Aunt Cordelia through her first meeting in years with the boy who broke her heart.
I love this book because it reminds me of moments like that, when being a family is what's holding you together, imperfections and all.Wow. Um.
I don't know if this is a coherent review at all, but I feel like I should mention one more thing.
One of the main negatives mentioned in other reviews about this book is Aunt Cordelia's statement that a woman becomes a woman when she loves a man.
The book is written in the style of a memoir, which gives it feel (at least to me) of really being a book about childhood and growing up for adults.I was very frustrated by the lack of placement in time or place in the text, which was not assisted at all by the cover of the paperback copy that I read which features a pretty modern looking (if on the sentimental, traditional side) teenager.
(And, I do feel it was probably honored in 1967 at least in part as a Young Adult novel that deliberately stuffed the realities of life back in Pandora's box and showed instead a sweet, innocent, and, oh, so sentimental view of a girl's coming of age before the 1960s.)
Aunt Cordelia has never married, but her brother (a narcissistic, essentially harmless alcoholic) lives in a separate house on the property.
She then takes up with a chum from the old days at Aunt Cordelia's school -- the boy she has really loved all along.
Julie wants to be a writer and makes several attempts at dramatic short stories.
The End.So, this turns out to be one of many coming-of-age stories, written by female authors, about a girl who wants to be a writer.
Julie, whose orphan story is a bit more serious-minded than Anne's, wants to be the apple of someone's eye.
For one thing, it bothered me that I couldn't quite ascertain the era in which the story takes place.
I wanted to know more details regarding Julie's mother - so I could understand Julie's actions and emotions, especially early in the book.
Although some characters were well-developed (Aunt Cordelia for example), others were not (her brother Chris, her father) Also I wanted to see more of a plot line develop around Aunt Cordelia and Jonathan Eltwing - everyone seemed just a little stifled and repressed in this book to me.
After I posted a story of a telephone interchange I had as a girl shortly after my mom's sudden death, a friend remarked that my story reminded her of this book.
I always say, Better an excellent children's book than some shoddy pulp fiction.
I was in the perfect melancholy mood to appreciate Irene Hunt's novel in a minor key.
I read it in one sitting and my responses have been brewing ever since.Will it be a five star book for you?
I had read Across Five Aprils twenty years ago.
But Irene Hunt is surely on my radar; I will definitely read more.
I love this book.
I have loved it since I first read it back in third grade, and continued to love it this week.
What I don't quite understand is WHY I love it.
A lot of reviews here liken it to Anne of Green Gables, but outside of the very basic plot (girl goes to live with stern older woman), it's not at all similar, in plot or style.
It's incredibly old-fashioned, in thoughts and terms and story.
But damn, I don't care; I love this book, I love Julie and Danny and Aunt Cordelia and even Uncle Haskell.
Like, you can definitely tell from the get go that not only does the story take place a while ago, but it’s definitely written in that young-adult style of the past.
Everything just felt like I was seeing it through the haze of the years rather than living it with Julie.And really, that could’ve been entirely deliberate on the author’s part, since the story is written as Julie looking back on her childhood and teenage years, which she spent living with her older, unmarried aunt.
And I think that depth catches Julie herself off-guard a bit, as she’s used to seeing them through the eyes of her childhood rather than the eyes of a near-adult.
Very much a coming of age story, sweet but angsty. It is a nice combination of not too intense but still full of underlying drama.
Julie is seven when her mother dies and she and her older brother are whisked of to live in the country with Aunt Cordelia, a spinster school teacher with a ram rod posture and a ram rod distinction between correct and not.
It took awhile for me to realize that even if I had read this book as a child there is no way I could have appreciated it as I was at present.
I couldn't tell it I was reading a period piece or if Hunt was consciously being coy with the year.
This book is a love story but also about a young girl that comes to grow up in the story. It takes place in the mid 1900s. She goes through tragic events, such as her mother dying, school problems, dating, and family issues. I definitely recommend this book if someone is looking for a book that would touch them and make them think about what they are doing in their lives. It really touched me and I've acted different with people ever since.
I had to read this for school but recently read it again. Loved it even more this time. A gentle book about growing up, with many life lessons along the way.
DNFI found it boring and figured the whole book is gonna be about ordinary events in an ordinary girl's life. So, no thank you.
This books is a very interesting mix of early era Newbery winners (glorification of the past and rural "honest" living, clear moral of the story, and complete with a few cringeworthy moments, (view spoiler)[in this case, a problematic depiction of a girl with a cognitive disability from a bad home, who is very poorly treated and ends up dying in order for the main character to have a moment for growth.
It's about a girl who is sent to live with her aunt after her mom dies + she has to learn tough life lessons + grow up.
It's a coming of age story and not terribly exciting, but still good.What I liked -.
This girl learned that her views were warped and she was wrong and not everyone is as good as they make you feel..
I like how this explored character and things being different from what they seem and how the past shapes people and how you wish things could have been different but they weren't.
Reading this is like visiting a fond memory from my past. I first read this book when I was 10, again at 14, and now at 30 have read it a third time. I have enjoyed it each and every time and since reading it and as an adult now appreciate it more. For me it was very easy to get lost in the writing and the story. A timeless coming of age story with the love of family and a little romance thrown in.
One can see the signs throughout however: Julia loves words, to read, memorize, and write poetry, to read hefty adult classics, and to dabble in writing stories.Up A Road Slowly ultimately succeeds largely for the same reason that Anne of Green Gables does.
Interestingly, there are other similarities between the books: In Up A Road Slowly, Julie moves in with Aunt Cordelia and Uncle Haskell--a sister and brother who live together but have never married.
Although Julie's Uncle Haskell is nowhere near the saint that Anne's Matthew is, both men offer lifelong advice and encouragement.Ultimately, Up a Road Slowly is about much more than Julia's literary aspirations, which is why now I love most everything about it.
She is sent away to live with her aunt who, gradually throughout the book, with the help of Julia’s own experience, teaches her how to be a kind, loving human being.One of the fun things about reading through the Newbery winners is going back and looking at the reviews of friends who have read them before.
Two of my friends totally smashed the book because of Julia’s childhood meanness, and one of them even called Julia an “evil person.” Anyone who knows me knows that I like my characters flawed.
However, the theme of the story that induced metaphorical vomiting was that a girl needs a man to be complete- that she can't even be complete in her platonic, non-romantic emotions without experiencing true love.
Should I imagine Danny's car is an old Model T or is it a new Buick Century?Between the overly mature emotions of the protagonist and didactic tone, the vomit-inducing true love theme, and the lack of any historical context, I would have never finished Up a Road Slowly if I hadn't had to read it for class.
The book is about a girl who, at 7 years old, is transferred to her aunt's house because her dad is single and thus (in the author's opinion) unable to care for her properly.
Yes, and all while trying to say how we should treat those people better.And lastly, the book implies that it is every girl's biggest dream to grow up and get married, and since the guy was so nice as to marry her everything she does from thence onward should be in servitude of her husband, who really doesn't need to do any more.
It takes a bit to get into, but once I did I didn't want it to end.
Perhaps it’s just the narrator’s spirited reading (which also took me a bit to warm up to, but I ended up really liking).
I can relate to the character of Julie in so many ways.
(view spoiler)[The deranged wife/unrequited love thing with Jonathan Eltwing was just a little hackneyed.
It seems like so many books about girls who want to be writers always include someone giving her the advice to write about what she knows.
(hide spoiler)]
Up a Road Slowly follows the story of Julie Trelling from the age of seven to eighteen.
After her mother dies, seven-year-old Julie goes to live with her spinster aunt Cordelia in the country.
In the beginning of the book, Julie sees her aunt as a strict woman and they often disagree.
The book centers around themes of family, friendship, love and growing up.
I thought Up a Road Slowly was a beautiful story of a girl growing up.
I also loved the change in Aunt Cordelia and Julie’s relationship from the beginning to the end.
Lovely story about a feisty girl raised by her Aunt Cordelia, a schoolteacher maternal aunt in a rural school.
We meet Julie at age 7 after losing her mother and watch her grow into a 17-year old Julie as she graduates from high school.
Likes:* Julie's academic family* Laura, Julie's older sister(view spoiler)[* Danny Trevort helping Aunt Cordelia at school and at her home* Alicia, Julie's accomplished step mother and high school Composition teacher (hide spoiler)]Dislikes:* Julie's temper* Julie's pride(view spoiler)[* Carlotta, Julie's childhood frenemy* Smelly, strange, Aggie* Uncle Haskell's drinking* Golf without clubs* "Holiday parents"* Julie's first love, handsome & manipulative,  (hide spoiler)]With-reservations:death, bullying, alcoholic
I loved the story, and the vivid characters the author created.
I feel like Julie and I could have been friends growing up.This book is definitely in the vein of Little Women.
The story is by no means an exact copy of Louisa May Alcott's novel, but it left me with the same good feeling that if you try hard, learn from mistakes, and be true to yourself everything will end up alright.
And that growing up has such high and low points for everyone.Side note - I particularly liked that the author never used the title in the book.
When I asked my mother why she loved this book and to remind me of the plot she simply replied: “Oh, it’s about a girl who goes to live with her aunt.” O….kay?
It was a story about a girl not unlike myself who can be stubborn, makes mistakes, learns lessons, and finds love.
As the story carries us from early childhood to the closing of high school we can relate all too well to each and every character introduced as counterparts of our own peers.
Julie is a strong and intelligent girl, a character whom I much admire.
It says they went up the road slowly, but it went too fast for me! It's only 107 pages, and I loved experiencing Julie's life with her and all the interweaving of the people around her. To see her come to grips with her situation from losing her mother at age 7 to accepting the goodness of the people around her was a great journey for me. It wasn't maudlin or preachy. I learned right along with her and didn't want her to leave me on my own. I can definitely see why this qualified for a Newbery award.
I have half a mind to steal this book from the library. It seems almost necessary so Julie can take her rightful place on the shelf next to Laura and Anne. One of my favorite things is the unique ability a book has to make the tears burn behind my eyes and my heart ache just so. Irene Hunt's Up a Road Slowly does just that. Utterly lovely.
I just finished this beautiful book again. And this time, I felt such a strong longing to know these characters personally. I love this book so much. This is such a beautiful coming of age stories. I've lost count of how many times I have read it. Beautiful.I just reread this. I love this book. Years after I initially read it and it still moves me. Love it.
Reread an adolescent favorite; much to my happiness it was as good as it was back then. Maybe better, as I really enjoyed the author's view into the mind of a teenage girl and the deepness and silliness that often go hand in hand, and since I'm probably 10-15 years older this time around, it all made much more sense.
I'm going through the Newbery Award books and finding books I have read many years ago. This book was one of my favorites as a teenager. I read it several times.
