https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/256280.The_Siege_of_Krishnapur
Fascinating look at what empire means, in its moral decay, as the "happy native" ideal begins to be stripped away and Britain is faced with violence in India--all told with biting humor and incisive prose. This is the middle book of a loose trilogy, beginning with Troubles (which I loved) and The Singapore Grip (which I've yet to read).
I don't want to say that Farrell should have written some other book.
The Great Exhibition of 1851 serves as the embodiment of the materialist side.
We know the tide has turned against expansionist imperialism when the Collector, earlier such a great fan of the Exhibition, comes to the conclusion thatHe, too, [had] suffered from an occasionally enlightening vision which came to him from the dim past and which he must have suppressed at the time .
All the same he should have thought a great deal more about what lay behind the exhibits.
One would think in a novel of this size there was ample space for the inclusion of native point of view, a few characters who could be portrayed talking, walking and brooding like their British counterparts, even if to enrich the story if not to actually represent their point of view.
The Collector, the official in charge of the British administration in the fictional Krishnapur, gets a timely vision of their eventual success.
So I guess you could compare this Krishnapur siege with a real life siege going on today which would be like Mosul or Aleppo in Syria but it’s hard to compare because there are a lot more people getting killed because everybody has got a whole lot more bombs and guns and ammo and it’s not mostly white against mostly non white and also the non white people are inside the city and the white people are outside so it’s kind of the opposite but still you can find some white people bombing some Syrian people (check out those headlines “85 Dead after American Air Strike Mistake” 20 July 2016).
My views on colonialism are such that in this recounting of battle between Brits and mutinous Sepoys, I had no trouble rooting for the home team.Farrell feels the same way.
Even the most kind-hearted of his characters are flawed, if only because they just don't get it or can't make themselves understood.Yet, this telling of the Great Mutiny is Anglo-centric.
So this is not about why the Sepoys mutinied.
It is British culture hiding behind the melting ramparts, British culture being swallowed by the encroaching jungle.As a reflective character says in a kind of epilogue, "Culture is a sham....It's a cosmetic painted on life by rich people to conceal its ugliness."
although the author uses his barbed wit in a rather unique fashion, as an approach to an historical adventure overstuffed with commentary on the nature of humanity, rationalism, religion, the colonial mindset, imperialism, etc...
it actually made the experience feel slight when it could have been rich and satisfying.
the ironic, comedic detachment became oppressive at times.
like taking a road trip with your most sarcastic, cynical friend: you understand them, you may agree with their viewpoint, but hearing that commentary on every single thing that passes by?
still, a highly intelligent and very well-written novel.
certainly a worthy experience.
This is an excellent read and captures well the British in India in the nineteenth century with historical accuracy.
It captures well the British approach to empire in the characters of those caught in the siege and watching their gradual deterioration physically and mentally is fascinating.
One of the characters has many antiques and artifacts from the Great Exhibition, which to him represent the future, rationalism and progress.
Towards the end of the siege they are broken apart and used as cannon shot to fire at the natives/sepoys; a very clever reflection on modernity and progress.
A very stimulating read.
I consider myself lucky that I ended up reading this book after the other two in Farrell's empire trilogy, Troubles and The Singapore Grip.
Farrell captured me when I picked up Troubles on a free table at my old Job. It was a supremely clever book, and I couldn't wait to find more by the author.
Perhaps it was the pressure of having won the Booker for Krishnapur that threw him off on that effort (I'm pretty sure it was his last full novel before his early death).
The Siege of Krishnapur is surely the most accomplished of the three.
I'd say Troubles is Farrell's greatest artistic vision; Krishnapur his greatest novel.
I'd reached this terrible point of stasis with the book where it was well-written and interesting enough that I couldn't in good conscious give up and move on to reading something else, but I just wasn't enjoying it and never actually wanted to pick it up so because I couldn't start anything else I really just haven't been reading.My problem was that while the prose was great and its world was fascinating and vividly described, I just didn't give a shit if any of the characters lived or died, mostly because I felt the author looked down on them and didn't care much what happened to them either.
If you need me, look behind the cover of a 1940s crime novel; I'll leave The Siege of Krishnapur to more refined minds than my own.
It was clear that he would never get it from the sugar-bowl to the cup without scattering it over the table, so in the end he was obliged to push the sugar away and drink his tea unsweetened.The Siege of Krishnapur sounded fascinating - a depiction of the fall of the British Empire illustrated on a small town in Northern India.
It seems to me that The Siege of Krishnapur is one of those books that may have made more of an impression at the time it was written, but that has lost some of its appeal over time.
Maybe the expectation of the book is to defy any nostalgia towards imperialism in its reader.
M. Forster's A Passage to India (3 stars) that book about India being a British colonized country that immediately comes into my mind whenever this period in Indian history comes into discussion.
Now, I know a better book and that is The Siege of Krishnapur.At first, I thought that I would not enjoy reading this book because it is filled with so much details that were unfamiliar to me.
So, I cheered on while the sepoys and the Indian soldiers conquered Krishnapur although at the back of my mind, I also care about the Collector, Magistrate, Fleury and Lucy.

Farrell makes no mention of those involved in the uprising, they are kept as a faceless mass of seething anger and hatred and this helps to prolong the feeling that those stuck inside Krishnapur's British compound were also ignorant of the native population and what effect the Raj was having on their country and their existence.Having said that, Farrell was a supremely talented author and, in spite of their flaws and their self-absorbing and self-serving nature, you do want to see them survive and get back home to Blighty.He finishes off the novel with a sucker punch, none of those involved who survive appear to have learnt their lessons at all, they return to other parts of the Empire with the same attitudes of superiority and condescension they brought back from India.It's a supremely well written book and a deserved winner of the 1974 Booker Prize.
Yet when I recently got around to actually cracking the spine on this Booker winner, I found that I had no clue what I was in store for.Rather than a brutal retelling of colonial history, of the harsh realities of life under the British yoke, this was more of a look at the psychology of imperialism- of the justifications that the Brits (and currently the Americans in Iraq) threw up in order to shield themselves from the guilt of their repression of the indigenous peoples.
So the sepoys (Indian soldiers) revolt and trap the Brits in the local government headquarters and begin a months-long siege.
Having just read a very light British novel which brought to mind old movies and romantic novels of eras past, I Googled through lists of fiction where the setting is India.
Perhaps more than any of those novels lumped together and written depicting the attitudes of "Colonials", the concepts of "us" and "them" and the "Old Boys" network, "The Siege" managed to wittily exaggerate the worst biases, ignorance and arrogance of a class which considered itself above every other on Earth.
As an addendum - that I actually remembered this novel, the ideas it presented, the tone and the general tale for thirty years is a testament to its excellence of genre.
Very tricksy in a EM Forster representation of Brits in a colonial setting kind of way.You might want to keep a cup of tea handy or perhaps a G & T as you will want something to dunk this book in - it can be a little dry .
The third rule is still very much in use by some Brits abroad today; go abroad, hate the food and complain it's not like Blighty).
I'm still waiting for someone to explain how a bunch of weak chinned bureaucrats in badly designed uniforms kidded the world into letting them take it over but I liked the fact that in the end, the wibbly-round-the-edge character of Fleury found a bit of backbone.
So well-written that though you know it's a satire (which comes across without authorial comment), you still end up caring about the characters and their outcome.
Also amazing in that much of it is funny (despite the subject matter) with a purpose -- hard to pull off, but he does.
Also well-done are the handling of its themes, such as what is civilization and who gets to decide it, and the notion of superstition within religion.
The whole story is a metaphor really; but done so subtly, that you may not even realize it, even while it gives you so much to think about.
J.G. Farrell's novel of the Indian Mutiny as seen from the inside; the story concerns the British trapped in a siege of their compound by their own former Indian Army members or sepoys.
As the entitled representatives of the decades-old British Raj, their defense is secondary to the sheer stunned disbelief that the native population should ever even consider rising up.The author weaves a few parallel threads here, making his little instant-dystopia the direct result of the injustice of autocracy and colonialism.
The various characters holed up inside the Company’s Residency in Krishnapur each represent the different faces of the British colonialism: the Collector, a conscientious bureaucrat whose mission is to bring Western science and civilization (as exemplified by the Great Exhibition of 1851) to India; the Padre, who wants to deliver the people of India from heathenish superstitions; Harry Dunstaple, a young soldier whose sole interest is his military career in the Company’s army; the Magistrate, a cynical official obsessed with the ‘science’ of phrenology; and Fleury, an aspiring Romantic poet who has recently arrived in India with his widowed sister, Miriam.
Yet another book that I liked but didn't love. There were times when I found it hard to go back to - there was never, for me, any drive to see what happened next.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Witty and well-written novel conflating the Sieges of Lucknow and Cawnpore during the Sepoy Mutiny of 1857, into the fictional Siege of Krishnapur.
The story concerns a group of English in that area in Northern India who hold out for four months against mutinous sepoys.
Trapped inside the official Residence and surrounding compound, which has been ringed by a dirt barrier and a ditch, we see the interactions among the various stiff upper lipped characters and their bravery, battling not only the sepoys, but starvation and cholera.
I wondered if the novel was a satire on the Victorian English in India and colonialism in general.
The Siege of Krishnapore is set around the Sepoy mutiny of 1857 in a fictional town of Krishnapur.
The book is a satirical take that focus on the colonialist/civilisation ideas prevalent at the time through an assortment of characters who are thrown in together as the natives hold them under siege.The book plays out like a movie script.
We have an eccentric Collector who sees signs of the mutiny and tries to warn the Company of the discontent.
When his attempts fail, he starts fortifying the Collectorate in preparation for the eventual mutiny.
(I took some time off after Troubles, knowing I wanted to be able to savor rather than gulp Farrell's other great works.
I will, again, now take some time before finishing the trilogy.)Beyond that it is difficult to know how best to recommend this novel.
Maybe it's best simply to say that I'd have gladly read another 200 pages of this horrific tale just to enjoy these characters longer, though of course I'd feel pretty bad they had to keep on suffering as they do.
Farrell handles them well, though, always undercutting with the surreal (and sometimes hilarious) detail, or choosing to watch the scene though the hazy delirium of some feverishly ill character.Wonderful.
Towards the end of SoK, the once-sanguine Collector meets the once-romantic Fleury.
Fleury asks him about his collection of art; the Collector says that "Culture is a sham.
His stories, though, go to great lengths to reveal the bloody-minded chaos that went into building the world Austen, Trollope and Forster wrote about (excepting 'A Passage to India'); Farrel, on the other hand, writes about the (hoped for?) end of that world.
And this, despite what the Collector says, is the proof that culture is never merely a sham.
The Siege of Krishnapur was a real event, though Farrell's superbly-drawn characters are fictional.
Each of his named characters has a different and unique responsibility in this British outpost in 1857 colonial India.
With what seemed to me perfect prose, Farrell spent 250 plus pages defining it for me.
Farrell gives us an occasional ridiculous moment.
Early, he pensBut the Collector admired pretty women and could not feel hostile to them for very long.
'Why can't all women be widows?'These moments are infrequent, but necessary.
As were the residents of the British compound at Krishnapur, I was worn down.
It's Madame Bovary meets The Dawn of the Dead.
The backdrop is a British outpost during the 1857 Indian Rebellion, or "Great Mutiny", of Indian soldiers against their British leaders which left tens of thousands dead in fighting and retribution and led to the formal annexation of India into the British Empire.
The besieged outpost acts as the shopping mall in the zombie movie.
The message, as with the zombie movies is a reversal: the proud are cowed, the pariahs dignified, old value systems rendered ridiculous in a state of near-starvation.
The second book in the "Empire Trilogy" and a very good read in it's own right. I'm really glad that I found this author and trilogy of novels. Not quite as fascinating or captivating as the very excellent "Troubles" but still an excellent story about a time in history that I knew very little about. I really enjoy the overall style and delivery of this author, well worth the time and another gem from the New York Review of Books Classics list.
G. Farrell is both a mighty work of historical fiction and a humane study of man.
He also underlays the action both subtly and with irony depicting the contrast between the civilization of science and rationality, represented by the Great Exhibition of 1851 and its' Crystal Palace, with the culture of India as seen through the eyes of their British overlords; who at this time are from the British East India Company.
The action takes place during the period of unrest that leads to the end of the control of the Company with battle sequences during the siege by the Sepoys that are riveting, but do not detract from more abstract discussions of theology, philosophy and medicine.
A rich and interesting story, based on a real event. Despite the harrowing circumstances, the book isn't particularly gripping, perhaps because of the cool, sometimes comic writing style. I liked the characters, especially Lucy and the dueling doctors, but there wasn't really much character development. Despite the inferior defenses portrayed in the story, the prose is robust and vigorous, and each sentence is built like a tank.
J.G Farrell is a writer whose work I was completely oblivious to until I started on my project to read all the past winners of the Booker Prize.The Siege of Krishnapur is part of a series of novels known as the Empire Trilogy (the two other titles are Troubles and The Singapore Grip), which deal with the political and human consequences of British colonial rule.
All the same he should have thought a great deal more about what lay behind the exhibits.Farrell of course is poking fun at the colonial concept with its pretensions and supreme confidence in the Empire's military and moral superiority.
