https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/249606.The_Bridge
In particular he is enduring a series of sometimes hilarious, sometimes horrifying nightmares where he is making his way across a strange and magical world as The Barbarian- a sword-swinging Scottish-brogue wielding warrior who is the second major character in the narrative.While Alex explores his own mind and his environs we also follow the life of a young man, James Orr, who is making his way in our world (There are some parallels with Banks' character Adrian Cubbish in Transition, although Adrian is a bit more of a chancer than James).James finds success, with all its trappings, but finds his wealthy life empty.
John sufre amnesia y visita periódicamente la consulta de un doctor al que le cuenta sus sueños como terapia, sueños que son importantes para la historia ya que son otro protagonista más.
Pero John está intrigado por este puente, pregunta y pregunta pero nadie sabe o quiere responderle.
Intenta buscar la Biblioteca para obtener respuestas, pero parece que nadie sabe donde se encuentra.
Parece que John se encuentra perdido, hasta que conoce a una joven...
Y es que esta es una historia de amor.Banks escribe muy bien y nunca decepciona, sabe narrar y sorprender con cada uno de sus libros.
This book was written 25 years ago, but even then the "it was all a dream" scenario wasn't really all that fresh or interesting, and it takes a heckuva a lot of talent to pull it off without getting readers to feel like they've wasted their time.
Once it became apparent that this was all just some kind of coma-dream, it developed a hollow, very aimless feeling, and I ended up wishing it were over sooner.Banks does include a description of the narrator's life when he was awake, and it's actually kind of impressive how well he conveys an entire life with such economy of language.
I knew if I even caught a sniff of criticism of this book they would call it 'Kafka-esque', everyone's favourite shorthand for weird and depressing*.
Kafka.Okay, so this is a book about psychology and an in-depth exploration of our relationships, but first and foremost, it may come as a surprise that it's actually about a fucking bridge.
The building, in relation to the bridge?
I am given next to no tools to visualise this bridge, the buildings etc.If you're going to build a weird world, well...
I love bridges, I spent much of my childhood designing them and building models.
I love pictures and photographs of, and books about bridges, and I love the engineering aspects.
I love the Forth Bridge in Scotland, from when I first saw it on The 39 Steps (Hitchcock) to when my Dad took me up there when I was 10.
And I like Iain Banks who was brought up on the Fife side of the Forth Bridge.
There is a neat parable called he Bridge by Kafka, too.
Banks apparently thinks this is his best novel, and I agree. A very fine interleaving of dream and reality, without making the connections overly clear. Kafka meets the Wizard of Oz.
Considering my affection for Banks, it's remarkable how this book was about as enjoyable as a two-by-four across the forehead. I found it tedious and depressing.
It seems likely from the beginning that all of these narrators are the same person, but if so which one is the real man, and which ones the butterflies merely dreaming that they are men?And did it really take me more than 300 pages to remember that "bridge" has more than one meaning?"No annihilation without representation,"—Stewart, p.330The Bridge seemed steeped in the UK's politics of the 1980s, and in that way more akin to fellow Scots author Alasdair Gray's work than other Banks novels.
As experiment in stretching a formal conceit to an aesthetic project, Bank's saran-wrap of metal over narrative succeeds grandly.In the Bridge, the usual Banksian tropes plonk into Being: the requisite names which suggest familiarity but which maintain an air of oddity serve only to estrange, to make the quasi-real unreal; the preoccupation with war as fundus of the human heart, at root of all.
For all its head-in-the-clouds freewheeling, the book doesn't lose its feet: the book is firmly undergirt by the monolithic structure of the bridge indeed, dominated in fact by it, and Bank's artistic enterprise succeeds because of it.
The other, the story of an un-named man (though I have read that you can work out that he's called Alex Lennox from the diagrams of the Bridge in the book and his surname, at least, is corroborated by a reference to the lead-singer of the Eurythmics) from a working class Glasgwegian background who arrives at Edinburgh University in the late 1960s, falls in love with the upper-class Andrea Cramond, has a rather unconventional menage-a-trois relationship with her over the following eighteen years, while building up a successful engineering firm, all the while feeling an underlying discomfort that he is somehow betraying his working class roots.
This is, first and foremost, a love story. As a confessed Romantic, this is my favorite Iain M. Banks book. But it is much more than a love story, even if it is one that resonates very powerfully on me. It is also a vision on the wonders and depths of human fantasy, and how everyone of us holds the potential for wonder. In a way it is Whitman's quote given form:Do I contradict myself?Very well then I contradict myself,(I am large, I contain multitudes.)And I love Bridges, and have a special spot for the two Firth of Forth bridges.
A fantastic experience that's clearly a dream yet the story is reminiscent of everything we all have to deal with in the real world every day.A dream that's clearly the real world yet the story is too lovely to be real, and too painful not to be.Dreams that are dreams within dreams that may hold meaning but it's hidden from me.Read it. You may regret it. But you won't forget it.
I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone who expects to find meaning, connection or even a direct plot.
Man goes into coma.
People who want to analyse and interpret the world of dreams might just have a field day with this book.
There is nothing - I feel - deeply psychological about this book.
There is a dream world that the protagonist is stuck in and he only half-way suspects that it is a dream.
In that area, I found the book deeply satisfying.
I had high expectations, because I usually enjoy Iain Banks' books and find them thought provoking.This one is rather Kafkaesque, though without the overlong sentences of the real Kafka.
It's rather a study of the relationship between dreams and reality, and about the fragility of cause and effect.The central theme of the book is the discover by the narrator of his own memory, framed by his dream existence on the bridge of the title, which seems to be a metaphor for his life.
His dream life describes the process through which his memory returns and he decides whether or not return to reality in the glimmering light of gradually more significant revalations of his previous existence.I'm glad I've read it, but I'm still not quite sure why.
Yet this is the book which perhaps melds the two Iains together the best, the contemporary chronicler of Scotland and the foibles and machinations of modern protagonists from Complicity to the Crowd Road, with the wild imagination and sex and gore and shock of the Culture novels.Here is a mans life, lived and loved in modern Scotland, building a career, buying cars, history passing and times changing and commentary abounds.
It is an absolute delight to read Iain Banks prose, whether in the real world, or the endlessly inventive and perplexing world of the bridge.
Well good gosh golly dang.I don't know if I want to spoil too much about the story here so I'll get this out of the way and say that you should probably read this book.
There's a bunch of different writing styles that come up at seemingly random that all manage to work their way into the plot and it's all just so wonderfully done.I think that's about all I really want to say.
Sure it might be a good idea to give more of a plot detail or talk about the prose or the dialogue but instead, I just think I won't.
Kniha, která vám místy připomene Weisův Dům o tisíci patrech, místy třeba Mitchellův Atlas mraků. Jak se píše v anotaci, jen těžko se dá její děj vyprávět. Dějových linek je hned několik a to navzájem velmi odlišných, ať už prostředím, postavami nebo dokonce jazykem. Tady musím složit poklonu Janu Kantůrkovi, pořádně si s tím pohrál :-) Trošku se zapotíte, až budete chtít zjistit co je realita, co halucinace a co sen, co je minulost a co současnost, ale stojí to za to.Za mě další vynikající věc od Iaina Bankse a pět hvězd.
Reading this book is a difficult but worthy enterprise. In many ways this has to be Banks' best non-SF effort though there are elements of his SF writing here. It's set in two planes of existence and that's very hard to get off the ground but the rich detail, the worrying quality of the story and indeed the worries of the main character himself become our own. Good. Trippy. And the Forth Rail Bridge is such a rocking piece of architecture it deserved this immortalization in fiction.
In the large and disparate family of Iain Banks novels this is the funny looking kid whom you're sure must be adopted.
2/ It's not some kind of wishy-washy, misty-eyed, hand-wavingly vague, delicately allusive, oh-look-at-me-I've-read-a-psychology-textbook dream sequence with lots of notional fog drifting about the place, and sudden and jarring transformations, but something much more solid and robust.
The Bridge is an extended dream sequence in which three main strands of narrative reflect and inform one another.
Mind you, if you have a problem with sex you'll probably want to steer clear of Banks altogether.
Certainly it's hard to read this without thinking of that show (the UK original not the US remake), which also features a man in a coma in a dreamworld, and it did have some of the same stuff happening, like the "using TV set to show 'reality'" trope.
The complexity of the book is a challenge but it's also a gift, because it makes you slow down to process (same with the dialect maybe), and that gives space to think in unfamiliar ways about the big ideas going on here - reality, dreams (both sleeping and aspiring), faith and love, identity as minds and body and dreams change and are touched by others.
What makes The Bridge unique and mysterious are the two other narrators, John Orr and The Barbarian.
Initially John tries hard to understand what happened, but his lack of progress leads to him being abandoned by his doctor, and he turns instead to exploring the self-contained world of the Bridge.
This would be fairly cliched territory if Banks were to simply wrap up the story with “then he woke up, and it was all a dream.” Instead, the narratives of John Orr and Alex are initially given equal weight but this shifts as the story progresses.
It seems to me that there are a ton of books and films that spin off from this work, and it's indicative of Banks's wild and creative imagination that he was coming up with this kind of stuff before anyone else.
I ration his books, and have been trying not read them all -- even more so since he died.
I really hope he lived his life like this quote, and had no regrets when he died:Damn it I wanna do things!
Having read The Wasp Factory and Against a Dark Background I expected a lot from this book that had been sitting on my shelf for somewhere around 10 years.
In someways I was disappointed but it was still a fairly enjoyable experience.The sections on the bridge reminded me a lot of Kafka's The Castle but better.
The dreams were very cool, especially the trip to hell.
Without the dreams the book would have been a waste of time.
I didn't really enjoy the "off the bridge" part of the bridge sections.So I liked it but wouldn't really recommend it to anyone especially since Banks has a bunch of other books that are better.
The first half of this book was a good 4-5 stars as the strange surroundings, characters and events were weaving into a mysterious dystopic surreality.
Half way through as the weave tightens the mystery and strangeness slowly fades into a reflection of everyday reality and a sort of biography of a Scots life through the 1970s-1980s.I've already read all of Mr. Banks' more challenging novels of science fiction, all of which I've greatly enjoyed.
I do recommend The Bridge, especially for Banks' fans, just don't expect a sci-fi masterpiece, and do enjoy the parts of it that are just that.
Surrealistic, disturbing and funny by turns, The Bridge offers a window into the wandering mind of a man lying in a coma after a car accident. The scenes in the first half of the book, set in the world of the endless Bridge, read like some steampunk vision, but as the book continues it becomes a bit incoherent. I had the feeling I missed some important allusions. Why, for instance, are the sections of the book titled based on geological epochs?If you enjoy works brimming with dark imagination, give this one a try.
One of my perennial favourites. I love the parallel world of the bridge and the way its details are seeded from the hero's life. Unfortunately there's a rough patch with some barbarians - why do most alternate-headworld novels seem to have a tedious section with a barbarian? The real-world strand hasn't stayed with me as much as the imaginative bravado of the bridge world, perhaps because I didn't have the feeling that the character had anything major to address. But I reread every few years for pure enjoyment.
The problem I had with it was that there were several chapters told from a barbarian's veiwpoint and these pieces were all written in thick dialect.
This slowed down the pace of the book to a crawl.
(The only way he could have made it less enjoyable would be to have the dialect printed in italics.) I skipped every one of these chapters after slogging through the first and felt like I missed very little.
There were some great set pieces and inventions in this book and it had some truly funny Kafka-world comedy in it, as well (which I'm a sucker for).
The bridge - a surrealist alternative sci-fi(ish) dreamy exploration of culture life and death.Or for me a disorganised mess of varying prose unclear settings and unattachable a characters. I'm very aware of The Bridge intending to be something different, really just expressing that it was not for me

Oh Iain, you really were great...I read this because you said it was your favourite...I really enjoyed it too, a bit of a departure from your run-of-the-mill Scottish or space stories, maybe a little clever-clever (or not so) on occasion, but a great range of characters...again with a kafkaesque touch. Well done Iain...may you rest in peace (or rain down brimstone on those evil Tory bastards :) )
