https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1124117.The_Great_Wheel
A nice historical fiction story. I'm not sure I agree with the choice of cover images, since it is a spoiler (the first 50 pages or so have us wondering about what this "great wheel" could possibly be). Lawson's drawings of Conn seem to make his head too small.
Early this year I came across a list of "100 Books Every Boy Should Read".
The Great Wheel was one of the books on the list that I had apparently been deprived of as a boy, so I decided to correct the situation.
Although still able to perform his work exceptionally well, the fall left his body bent and crooked, which forces him to walk sideways; "crab-like".
Instead of brush or pen we do it with steel and concrete, with slide-rule, bolts and rivets-but first was the dream." And finally, as the story comes to a conclusion, it is apparent the main theme is one of faith.
A sweet little story about a young man who helps build Ferris' big wheel for the Chicago World's Fair.The details of the wheel's logistics were neat, and the parallel story of the young man immigrating to the U.S. was a nice complement.
and one day you’ll ride the greatest wheel in all the world.” When Aunt Honora reads this fortune in his tea leaves, Conn Kilroy knows he is destined for greater things than his small Irish village can offer.
A letter from his uncle Michael in America offering Conn a partnership in his New York contracting company sets Conn on his western adventure.
Just a few short months later Conn’s Uncle Patrick lures him even farther west to Chicago, where they join the hardworking crew building what some called Ferris’s Folly—the first Ferris wheel—then  the largest wheel in the world and the showpiece of Chicago’s 1893 World’s Columbian Exposition.
Enjoyable JF on the building of the first Ferris Wheel for the World's Fair in 1893. Admittedly, I've read other books on this Ferris Wheel so I'm not sure whether I'd have enjoyed this book as much if I didn't already have background on the events surrounding its construction. Enjoyed this one, though, and wish I could have taken a ride on this Ferris Wheel myself!
I really enjoyed it. Loved learning so much about the design and engineering of the ferris wheel. Also about irish immigrants, mr. Ferris, and the chicago world's fair. Loved the way the author wrapped it up too, but won't say more so as not to ruin the book for someone else.
The first half of this story was honestly very boring for me to even read to my sons, and I nearly gave up, but didn't want to, since I thought the subject matter would interest my sons.
The whole building of the Ferris wheel in this story took a lot of time that also made this boring.
I almost said, "Let's go to the next book." I know that one of my sons didn't care for this story while they other one really enjoyed it a lot.
I don't know how historically accurate this story is in regards to Mr. Ferris and the building of his wheel, either.
This book was SO hard to read.
This book is 180 pages long, and probably some of the most boring 180 pages of my life.
This book spends a lot of the time describing the "adventures" of working on the wheel.
And thought was really all there is to this book.
I felt so frustrated reading this book because I thought that this would be so much better because it is a Newbery Honor Book.
There are so many complicated words that do not make sense, there are boring illustrations, and this book such is bad.
Keep your face to the sunset and follow the evening star." From Ireland to New York to Chicago to a farm in Wisconsin, this classic award-winning tale slowly revolves and resolves as Conn follows his dreams and destiny: to work for Mr. Ferris on his fantastic wheel at the World's Columbian Exposition, and find Trudy- the girl with the blond braids, blue eyes and Dresden-doll complexion he met in steerage on his immigrant's journey to a new land.
The center portion of this book is full of minute details of the process of planning and building the world's first Wheel, which was tedious for me, but fascinating for anyone interested in wrought-iron construction.
I first read this charming story about 55 years ago. Upon rereading it yesterday I found that I remembered some of it but had forgotten a lot. Of course I now know much more about the historical context of the 1893 World's Fair and about late 19th-century immigration. That added to my appreciation of the tale about a young Irishman's experience as a crew member who built George Washington Gale Ferris's great wheel, one of the marvels of the World's Columbian Exposition.Robert Lawson's pen-and-ink illustrations are wonderful.
I like to read Newberry Honor books from the past. I enjoyed the description of the building of the Ferris wheel, but I had a hard time getting past the way they talked about race in 1957 when this was published. They described the Scandinavian workers as "square-heads," and it seemed like the only folks that prospered were the white English speaking workers with connections. An accurate view of the time, but not a book that my diverse students today could relate to.
I might of not liked this book because the first Ferris Wheel might have been crudely built (at least I think so). I also think the Ferris Wheel was a big wastes of time (in a way) because some people destroyed it after the world's fair. This book was about a boy named Conn and his fortune in the U.S. Overall, this book is very informational about the time when the first Ferris Wheel was getting built.
Very interesting story about the construction of the first Ferris Wheel for the Chicago Exposition. My children and I thoroughly enjoyed the characters and the historical information, as well as the charming story woven throughout about a young man in search of his destiny.
I had never heard of this book before we got it with Sonlight E. My daughter and I both thought it was very interesting. It was a little hard to read aloud in places due to the dialect, but over all it’s a great story of hard work and not being afraid to follow dreams that others may call crazy.
This was a good read that required a little bit of Irish background information to get going for my 5th grader. Armed with that information, the book was a delight, full of interesting information and story about the first Ferris Wheel. It was a great read in our homeschool.
A young adult historical fiction telling of how the first Ferris Wheel came to be at the Columbian Exposition in Chicago at the turn of the century. Parts of the book were slow, but overall it was a nice little story with a budding romance worked in. My sons both liked it (ages 10 and 12).
At first it was boring... Then it turned out a great book!
3.5 stars
It was interesting to see how much things had progressed just since the Civil War. Having visited Chicago, it was interesting to learn this history.
I really liked this immigrant tale about the first Ferris wheel. So did my boys (read aloud for homeschool). One star off bc sometimes it was hard to follow the descriptions of the construction.
An enjoyable read about the construction of the very first Ferris Wheel and the story of a young man woven through it.
This is the story of an immigrant who comes to the US and ends up working on the World's Fair in Chicago building the first Ferris Wheel.
His Uncle Michael has offered for Conn to cross the Atlantic Sea, leaving his home in Ireland to live and work in New York City.Conn agrees and the next day begins his journey to New York City.
A passionate man with flaming red hair, he loudly and proudly describes the work of his friend, George Washington Gale Ferris – the marvelous Ferris Wheel that is being built for the 1893 Chicago World Fair.
33]Conn’s cousin, Agnes, writes a letter to him, saying,“Now I will tell you a great secret but you must not breathe a word of it to anyone.
Conn wonders if Trudy will show up at the fair because he can’t get her out of his mind.This reads a bit like a mixture between a 1940s romantic comedy musical and a documentary on the technical details of building the first Ferris wheel.
There are merits to the fictional recounting of the building of the first Ferris wheel, but I’m guessing it’s going to be mostly adults today interested in the time period or trying to read all Newbery Honor books who are willing to slog through the entire book.
The Great Wheel is the story of Conn, who helps build the world's first Ferris Wheel.
"If he was to be telling you the world was square you'd be believing him - and he'd be right, likely," Conn thought.It's amazing how this book of steel and rivets and terrifically hard work is really a book of hope and ambition and starry-eyed dreaming.
Mr. Ferris puts it best:"It may surprise you, Conn, but you see we engineers, supposedly so hard-boiled and practical, are great dealers in dreams and visions.
Robert Lawson is a superb children's writer, responsible for books such as Smeller Martin, Ben and Me, and Rabbit Hill.
It follows the story of a young Irish immigrant who comes to America and ends up working on the construction of the world's first Ferris Wheel at the World Expo in Chicago.Part coming-of-age, part romance, delightfully humorous and full of colorful, finely crafted characters, this book is a keeper.
I was not disappointed.There's a freshness and an innocence in Lawson's writing and it's front and center in The Great Wheel.
However, this story isn't just for children.
I picked this up totally on a whim because it was sitting on an endcap, and had that bright, shiny Newbery seal on the cover.
It was a new version with a celebrity foreward by Richard Peck, and I didn't realize until I cracked the cover that it was actually written in about 1950.
It's the story of an Irish boy of about 18, circa 1900, who goes to America to seek his fortune, first working with his uncle laying sewers in New York, then recruited by another uncle to work for Ferris and build the first Ferris wheel for the Chicago World's Fair.
This is my favorite type of read aloud: we enjoy the story, learn some history, learn about amazing people who were not afraid to try the "impossible", and follow an innocent romance.
This was Robert Lawson's last book, and it was named a 1958 Newbery Honor after Lawson's death.
I will never forget Robert Lawson's "Rabbit Hill", but I shudder when I think of it.
Robert Lawson was the first (and so far, the only) person to win both a Caldecott Medal and a Newbery Medal.
-a whole lot of talk of “manly” work and mocking his pasty hands etc.-a major theme is the fortune that was pronounced over him by his aunt who read his tea leaves.
Is brought up over and over, not a passing reference.-The prophecy comes true.By page 40 he’s lived in two places for years at a time and I feel like I don’t know anything about them.Page 52 “There’ll be a…Cockney slum…with its disgusting inhabitants in their native habitat”.Dialect is tediousP 60 Norwegians are called boxheadsOther epithets “Micks” etc.Aunt Celia is gaining weight too rapidly because she doesn’t have enough to do.Calls his nephew a real ShylockSavagesIt is said that one of the girls will scrub the red off the Indians.Too dated and filled with racist words and I just don’t care frankly.
Stopped reading at page 60.
Not terribly impressed. The author throws around engineering vocabulary when explaining the building of the Ferris wheel without explaining the meaning or function of those parts. And I didn't find it interesting enough to want to learn the meanings. Granted, I read this on the heels of several Newbery Honors by Holling C. Holling, who is peerless in his explanations and illustrations of machinery, among other things. Still, there was nothing particularly gripping about the story or characters.
