https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/702559.The_Berenstain_Bears_Trick_or_Treat
This little story feels unfinished to me.
I did enjoy the artwork, I feel they capture that feeling and spirit of Halloween.
It's the cozy bears we all know and love.
Still, in the story the kids are going trick-or treating for the first time by themselves.
There are 3 of them who entice them without much convincing to go do some bad things instead of treating.
So they end up going to the old bears house.
We know it's ok to not judge a book by it's cover now, but what happened to the peer-pressure story and the willingness to do wicked things???
This is a fairly typical Berenstain Bears book, a cute story about the Bear family with a moral lesson woven throughout. This time the moral is "don't judge a book by its cover," or rather, as the book mentions, "appearances can be deceiving." We enjoyed reading this book together.
Slightly dated considering the cubs go trick-or-treating without an adult, but the book is very effective at conveying the message that appearances can be decieving. My three-year-old, who I thought might be too young for this book, seemed to understand the basic idea. I like how the book does not try to scare kids, but attempts to make kids more aware and cautious, to trust their instincts.
Brother and Sister bear map out their locations for trick-or-treating Halloween night, the first year they'll be allowed out without Mama and Papa. One place they plan to avoid is Miz McGrizz's scary place, but when they end up there unexpectedly, she turns out to be a nice old lady who makes fantastic candy apples.
I have mixed reviews about this book. I loved the lesson/moral of the story: appearances can be deceiving, but didn't like that fact that the kids ventured out by themselves. Espeically on Halloween! Yikes! Granted this book was written twenty some years ago, but still I'd never let my kids trick-or-treat by themselves today.
Appearance can be deceiving. I agree totally with it. Sis bear and Brother are not going to Miz McGrizz. Because they thought she is a witch. But she led the terrified cubs into a cozy living room.She was a sweet, kind old person.
“Even little bears expect a good fright when they go out for treats on Halloween night.”I was surprised that the story wasn’t rhyming and was like an actual story rather than a poem.
The title page had the above rhyme, and the last Berenstain Bears Halloween book rhymed so it was a surprise that this one didn’t.Brother Bear’s costume didn’t look so much like a spooky monster as it did a devil costume.
It made the pictures look really scratchy.The authors used the word deceiving, but at least Mama Bear explained that it means things aren’t always what they look like.
It was nice to see people from the books that are also in the show!Just watched an episode where they competed against each other for the biggest pumpkin.They say he’s going as a monster but it looks like the devil.Papa’s scary face was too scary!
I don’t like when authors throw out houses and people for convenience, in one book or episode, and then you never see them again.
It was odd how the woman just takes Brother and Sister and their friends into her house, and not the bad kids, when they were with the bad kids, and all a part of going to teepee her house.
I recently came across Trick or Treat in an unpacked box of books.
Trick or Treat isn't necessarily one of my favorite Berenstain Bears books, but it still has a good lesson for children to learn.
Brother and Sister Bear are going trick or treating on their own with friends this year and are planning out their route.
When they are out an older group of kids tries to get them to play some tricks on an old neighbor that the kids believe to be a witch.
In the end everybody learns that appearances can be deceiving.
★★★The Berenstain Bears Trick or Treat by Stan and Jan Berenstain Brother and Sister Bear go trick or treating, by themselves for the first time. So, even thought this book is almost 30 years old, they seem awfully young, to go anywhere by them selves. The cubs decide they are not going to Miz McGrizz's, because it is creepy. But they learn she makes yummy candy apples, and is actually nice. This is a bit outdated, in that we specifically teach our kids not to take fruits and homemade goodies. Oh, how things change.
Fall time brings lots of changes to Bear County, the best of which is Halloween and trick or treat. This year Brother and Sister Bear are going out trick or treating without a grown up, just them and some friends. There is a sweet lesson woven in the story about not judging a person, or bear, by their outward appearance. Fun book to share with your kiddos anytime of year but most defiantly before Halloween.
I enjoyed this book because of the great lesson that it teaches. When people say don't judge a book by its cover they are correct. This book is fun to read but it also teaches people to look below the surface and not make assumptions about others and what they see in front of them.
I haven't read this book in years, so instead of rating the "message" of this book, I based it on my memories of the book. 20 years (ish) and I can still remember the pictures! It was one of the BB's I liked the best.
I liked the lesson in this book, that is, everyone deserves a chance. We are all different, but sometimes when we get to know another person they are better than we expected.
We love all berenstain bear books!
I have to read this one to my 2 yr old granddaughter every time she goes down for a nap
Another great lesson from the BB about not judging people by their appearance, or by stories you've heard which may or may not be true.Read in Austin; purchased by Lonene for the kids' library.
Another great installment in the Berenstain Bears series.
With October coming around the corner I thought this an appropriate book to share about.
Brother and Sister are getting ready for trick or treating.
Come along with the bears as they carve a pumpkin, gather up candy and cookies, and learn that appearances can indeed be deceiving.
A wonderful tale to add to your kiddo’s library both for fun and to talk to young children about how much more character and integrity matter than the way a person looks or how popular they are.
Hope you’ll take a look, I very highly recommend it.
Too texty for storytime, but a fun classic for 1-on-1 reading
The illustrations were bright colorful and added to the story.About the Authors: Stan & Jan Berenstain:Stanley Melvin Berenstain and Janice Marian Grant were both born in 1923 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, growing up in families struggling through the Great Depression.
Since both sons were big Dr. Seuss fans, Stan and Jan decided to try their hands at creating a children's book, themselves.
This became The Big Honey Hunt featuring Papa, Mama and, at that time, Small Bear, published in 1962 with Dr. Seuss (aka Ted Seuss Geisel) as editor and publisher.
Over two hundred Berenstain Bears books followed over the next forty three years until Stan's death in 2005.
I felt the appearances being deceiving moral to be awkward and tacked on, but maybe that's because I wanted the story to be about the triumph the kids felt after their first trip out without parents.
That part of the story seemed to be a set up with no pay off.
I did have trouble with the big kids being mean.
I'd like to have my kids thinking that big kids are nice and that they mentor the younger kids (which is just as true), so that they don't think that they're supposed to act mean when they're older.
Mama tells her cubs that they should not judge someone by the appearances because that can be deceiving.
When Too-Tall and his gang lead the other cubs to her house to play tricks on her, Miz McGrizz catch them and take them inside where she has beautiful carmel apples made for trick or treaters.
Brother and Sister learn that Mama was right and appearances can be deceiving.
This book could lead children to believe that if someone looks nice, or even not, it is okay for them to interact with them.
Then it becomes a very overused plot of the kid bears meeting up with naughty teenaged bears that want to do tricks.
Then it immediately abandons that and picks up another overused plot of "that old lady that lives alone that everybody hates and is scared of because she is creepy turns out to be swell after all".
I could see this being a good B-bears special on TV in the 80s...but this is like that special had been severely edited for television with a lot of important pivotal scenes removed.
I actually want to see more of the old woman.
This book is part of a series of a family of bears that show morals through out their adventures.
Each book is a different scenario and in this case it is the children going trick-or-treating on halloween.
This series is known for its lessons it teaches and this lesson is don't judge a book by its cover.
These books allow misbehaving a little bit but only to teach a lesson on the proper way ways of behaving.
These are very popular books because of the lessons and children's entertainment with the idea of a bear family and their silly adventures.
Basic Plot: Brother and Sister Bear learn not to judge things, especially people, on appearances.I do not know why my son is on a Halloween book-reading spree 3 weeks before Christmas, but I'm running with it anyway.This is a fairly typical Berenstain Bears book, featuring some serious nostalgia in the way holidays, family, and children are treated.
The kids get homemade treats on Halloween- even *I* don't remember that happening when I was a kid...
At any rate, the lesson is an important one, not judging based on appearances.
I think that's an important lesson, no matter how nostalgically it is told.
I think that it is important to have books for different categories and seasons in your classroom library.
This is an example of a Halloween book.
This particular one is about trick or treating and how looks can be deceiving.
This would be a good lesson to work on with your class about sharing that people are about more than their looks.
It is so important for me to make a family feel in my classroom so that the students feel safe and loved, and this would be a good way to help push that feeling of security.
I wonder how many kids today are even allowed to Trick or Treat anymore. This is your very typical Halloween trope - the nervousness about going out, the spookiness of everything, the so-called "witch house" that turns out to belong to the good-hearted neighbor. But while there's nothing new in the text, I'm bumping this up to four stars just because of the illustrations which are bright and spooky and fun. Not a bad book, but one that's fun to pull out for Halloween regardless.
This is a book to get students ready for Halloween. Also it has aspects about fall in it. Students learn about the safety of trick or treating on Halloween.This is a good book to lead into Halloween activities with the students such as pumpkin carving using geometric shapes, trick ot treating math centers with "candy", and dress up area (with important people from history) to prepare for halloween.
I found my old copy of this in my house.And I picked it up cause I wanted to read it.....I remember really this book when I was younger. And it really has a lot of great lessons in it.not judging people just for how the look or appear to be.I love how the artwork is dark but its also very, very colourful.
I had been scratching my head, trying to find a humorous book about Halloween. I was in the bookstore when I found this little book featuring The Berenstain Bears. When I read it, my two smallest children laughed. It has some funny lines and great illustrations. It became a favorite for several years.
