https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2353951.The_Daughters_of_the_Late_Colonel
A sad short story about two sisters mourning the loss of their father. Though I found Katherine Mansfield's writing dull, she does a good job of showing the sisters' nuanced relationship with their father, in particular how his control over them permeates beyond death. It sucks how these girls suffer, both from the patriarchal way their father treated them as well as the grief they experience after he dies. Mansfield captures this intricate father-daughter beyond the grave dynamic well.
Çok sevdiğim Yalçın Tosun'dan Katherine Mansfield'ı duyunca, merak etmeden durmam imkansızdı.
Bu zarif yazarın naif ve duygusal hikayelerin içine girdikçe, Yalçın Tosun tadı da biraz alır gibi oldum ki yazarı araştırdığımda o da en çok Çehov'dan etkileniyormuş.
Virginia Woolf'un "yazarlar birbirinin devamıdır" tarzında bir cümlesi vardı, gerçekten de öyle.
Ve bir okur olarak bu çark beni okumanın daha müptelası yapıyor.
Katherine Mansfield öykülerinde karakter betimlemesinden ziyade hava betimlemesi var.
Bahçelerinde lahana saplarından, hastalıklı tavuklarından, konserve kutularından başka bir şey bulunmazdı.
Bacalarından çıkan duman bile yoksulluklarını belli ederdi.
Küçük küçük, parça parça dumanlar, Sheridan'ların bacalarından kıvrıla kıvrıla çıkan, kül rengi dumanlara hiç benzemezlerdi.
A lengthy tale of two odd sisters who must cope with the death of their aged father. The sisters really are rather charming, if dotty, and the unfolding of their peculiarities and their realisation that they are finally free to step out of the shadow of the late colonel if they can bring themselves to is bittersweet.
Short but well-written, it is interesting how much the author is able to convey about these two women and their father without outright saying much at all. Sad and insightful.
Those stories are, after all, simply stories of men, a kind of top-down history, great man history, that ignores the vast bulk of the population.
In fact, I would say that those kinds of stories, in important part, are designed to keep the vast bulk of the population out of historical decisions.I think Woolf and Mansfield had had enough of that kind of story, that kind of history, and they were trying to create a place for the stories, not just of everyman - but of everywoman.
I have never read a Mansfield short story before and I must admit, her writing style did remind me a lot of D.H. Lawrence's.
That isn't necessarily a bad thing, I just struggle to become invested in Lawrence's style of prose...That being said, this certainly was thought provoking.
The temporal shift in the narrative is done so well, almost seamlessly.
I actually found myself going back over to read a section again before I realised what had just happened.The story obviously investigates the position of women in our society with shocking realism.
É absolutamente soberba e o género de leitura que hoje em dia prefiro.
O texto segue alguns momentos na vida de duas irmãs a seguir a um acontecimento trágico na família, a morte do seu pai.
Um pai que era tirano e governava a casa com punho de ferro, e que, agora, tendo partido, deixa as filhas entregues a um estado de confusão sentimental e acerca do seu individualismo.
O que fazer quando, ao fim de anos, nos tiram as grilhetas dos pulsos?
Que é isto de 'liberdade'?
O final é absolutamente estrondoso, o tipo de história que muito me cativa e interessa, volto a repetir.

It was only when she came out of the tunnel into the moonlight or by the sea or into a thunderstorm that she really felt herself.
This brief short-story was nothing extraordinary.
I guess, alright?I feel it reached, at times, some very interesting points regarding women's roles in Manfield's society at the time (which could easily be transported in our own times today, too) but being a short story, I felt I did not quite get the whole of it.
I would prefer a lengthier take on this same story, only for her to have more space to develop her characters.
The best?
But, for me, this is the best short story I have ever read.
It starts so simply but the whole story is contained in that wonderful opening line."The week after was one of the busiest weeks of their lives."And it certainly is.
Two elderly spinsters deal with one of life's milestones and Katherine Mansfield details their struggle with eloquence and grace.
Like so much in life there is no running away but acceptance may be difficult, perhaps impossible.
So where does that leave us.
Exactly where Katherine Mansfield leaves the Daughters of the Late Colonel.

Öykülerde yer yer parayla mutluluğun gelmeyeceği, yoksulların kimsenin umursamadığı hayatlarında yaşadıkları acıların yine hiç kimse fark etmeden nasıl devam ettiği ya da sonlandığı, eğlence ve şatafata düşkünlük ile nasıl körleşileceği ve sıklıkla ölüm - yaşam temalarını işliyor Mansfield. Ortak nokta ise, sıklıkla vurguladığım gibi; acı, keder, üzüntü, hüzün...Yazının tamamı blog'da, blog'un linki de profilimde.
Wow. This was such a pleasure to read. I love reading stories that move me by word usage and sentence structure. There is such a tone set in this book. So often I actually felt the same as I do in a dream. Amazing. This is a story of grief, bitter loss, and freedom, told through the conversations between two daughters who have recently lost their father. I highly recommend it.
Estos cuentos son bastante sombrios y tal vez por esto y mi estado de ánimo actual no fueron de mi agrado. Aunque reconozco que estan bien escritos.
3rd Modernism Short Story read for uni. Didn't disappoint.Love Katherine Mansfield, I need to read more of her.
A refreshing short story about two daughters who are lost upon their father's death. Without giving away too much, the learned behavior of these two young women is not all for naught.
Me gustan los cuentos que no tienen final es como una historia que no acaba.
Masterful way of writing about wreckage left by the elephant in the living room without mentioning the elephant. Ominous warning.
The tale of two sisters, Constantia and Josephine, after the death of their father...
