https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46279.The_Everglades
I read it pretty much straight through -- most of the best US writing is non-fiction, and this is a good example.It begins with a natural history of the Everglades, going into geology, weather patterns, ecology, etc.
She even throws in a flashback to the Age of Mammals for us paleo-freaks.Then she deals with the human history of the Everglades.
It is a remarkable story, full of vivid characters, and the author's fundamental humanism shines through in her treatment of the ongoing conflict in the area.The book ends with a description of the dangers facing the Everglades when the book was written, and a couple of recently-written addendum's bringing us up-to-date.Frequently distressing, always beautifully written, deeply thoughtful and humane.
There are major sections that are only marginally related to the Everglades (Spanish explorers reaching South America and the islands, for example).
I found this to be distracting because I couldn’t be sure which information is still considered to be accurate and which is not.The book is strongest at the end, where she constructs an indictment of the Army Corps of Engineers, agricultural interests and others for almost killing the Everglades.
Consider reading it as a slice of history, but I’m not sure it’s worth the time.
She also states in this chapter a fact that was mind boggling at the time: The Everglades are not just a swamp, but a slow moving river covered with swamp grass.
Sandwiched in between these chapters is a fairly comprehensive history of Florida (not just the 'Glades) from prehistoric times through present day.
At times, I think she dwells too much on this, taking away from her main point, but that doesn't take away the importance of this book, and the fact that it is quite enjoyable.
This book is a love letter to the Everglades.
The author gives us the history of the area as well as a lesson in how to care for and to preserve the precious resource we have.
The writing is a bit old fashioned but it was written many years ago.
It is amazing to me and very sad too, to read about the vast numbers of deer, bears, panthers and other wildlife that are simply now gone because we have introduced pollution and other influences that are destroying the area faster than we can imagine.The book is a must read for anyone who cares about the environment and the future of humanity.
Her word images make an attentive reader breathe with the peoples of ancient history or with the scents of salty breeze over decay or fresh regrowth of trees, grasses, flowers and of myriad animals of land and water.
For another century there grew conflict between traditional glades dwellers, new farmers, cattlemen, hunters and fishermen, railroad builders, then developers, and—always—more outlaws and fugitives, then politicians.
In 1947, as Marjorie Stoneman Douglas published her monumental manuscript of exhaustive research, the Everglades National Park had just been officially established.
“The Everglades: River of Grass” by Marjorie Stoneman Douglas helped introduce the incredibly rich natural history of Southern Florida to many. It is a history of the region, as well as a natural history primer. My favorite sections of Everglades National Park are Shark Valley (Snail Kites & Limpkins) and the Snake Bight trail (Greater Flamingos). This is truly a fantastic region to explore; hopefully the title of Douglas’s chapter, “Eleventh Hour,” has not already passed!
Floridians may read The Everglades: River of Grass with special pride, but this is a book for everyone who appreciates the beauty of the U.S.A.’s wild regions and wants to see that beauty preserved.Douglas, a Miami Herald journalist and freelance writer, lent her pen, her courage, and her critical insights to many subjects, including women’s rights and civil rights – not easy topics for a woman author to engage in the mid-20th century South.
After draining much of the Everglades, the land dried out, turned to dust and blew away, then caught fire, with fires that wouldn't go out for months."Anybody could see, in this time between two wars, that the Everglades had been changed.
Over the ancient course of the saw-grass river the rain drummed and blew.
Seems that when people try to fix what Mother Nature is doing 'wrong' then things don't go well.This is an excellent book, I recommend it for anyone interested in nature and environmental issues, in Florida history, or our National Parks in general.
I was somewhat disappointed, but I should say right now that this was very-well written and parts – especially in the first chapter – were quite poetic.
That said, I did come across several passages I especially enjoyed, and I would have been thrilled if the entire book had gone on in this vein:“The great piles of vapor from the Gulf Stream, amazing cumulus clouds that soar higher than tropic mountains from their even bases four thousand feet above the horizon, stand in ranked and glistening splendor in those summer nights; twenty thousand feet or more they tower tremendous, cool-pearl, frosty heights, blue-shadowed in the blue-blazing days.” (Page 17).

A difficult read for me (hard truths expounded in overwhelming detail) but I view this book as an essential chronicle of Florida human and natural history.
MSD's writing roller-coasters between tediously ground detail, becomes newsreel-ish in places, has some flow issues with numerous flashbacks that detract from the story (though included for historical accuracy), yet at times the prose becomes crystalline and soaring, astonishingly satisfying.
The book is the American story of continent and culture, an examination of the prehistoric and near past, the present, and frankly (a half century past it's publication in 1947) prescient of the future.
MSD's work is an essential gift - an extraordinary lifetime achievement.
My book club is doing a reread of this book.
I first read it when I came to Florida in 1982.
Douglas is such a gracious writer and poet.
Her verse is strong with color and you can feel like you’re in the Everglades while you read.
I also appreciated the afterward by Grunwold.
He let’s us know that once we knew what we had [or maybe we didn’t] we just haven’t been able to get it right.
I now live, boat and swim near the mouth of the St Lucie River.
The Everglades continues to be an amazing area we need to treasure and preserve
I read this book after reading Michael Grunwald's THE SWAMP (It was deemed required reading by Mr Grunwald) so I think I was expecting something different from this book.
While I know you cannot tell the story of the Everglades without including the recklessness of humans, I was interested much more in the descriptions of the Everglades than I was about the people living in them.
This is truly a love letter to the 'River of Grass,' but I could've lived without some of the unnecessary tangents Ms Douglass chose to take us down.
We need more people like Ms Douglass to care about such things others take for granted & outright ignore.
The first part of this book was an amazing exploration of the natural history of the Everglades. The rest of the book was a slog of names and dates, telling the story of its violent colonization and exploitation, ending with a (faintly) hopeful portrait of what must be done to save this national treasure and the people who live around it. Overall, I’m glad I read it, but am also glad to be finished, and might recommend that people read only the first 100 pages or so, before the book gets bogged down in historical minutiae.
Ms. Douglas was a pioneer and hero in every sense of the word.
This book helped to raise awareness of the living waters of The Everglades as a vibrant ecosystem - not a swamp that needed to be drained and filled in.
Her tireless efforts resulted in the creation of this area as a national park, long before people and industry encroached upon this shimmering jewel under the shining Florida sun.
Unfortunately, what is left is a tiny fraction of what once was, and half-hearted efforts to restore some of its former glory have done little if anything to improve that situation.
I had always heard about this book as the story of the Everglades that made people realize that it was an ecological treasure. I had no idea that the first 300 pages were an anthropological history of south Florida, about the Spanish, the Native American tribes, and local Florida news from the early 19th century. While interesting, this portion was written in a more lyrical manner than I'm used to for history, and was not what I was expecting the majority of this book to be about.
The Everglades: River of Grass by Marjorie Stoneman Douglas (Rinehart & Co., Inc. 1947) (975.9). This is an omnibus book about the Everglades circa 1947. This volume is mainly a recounting of the history of the Glades area. This appears to be the central history which Peter Matthiessen adapted into his epic novel Shadow Country about the planter Edgar Watson's life at the turn of the nineteenth century. My rating: 7/10, finished 7/29/17.
Reading like a true history of South Florida, this is essential material for every Floridian. Marjory is the patron saint of our sunshine state and this book is the defining, magnificent coat of arms. I have not enjoyed a history book this much in my life. I learned, I grew, I am emboldened to take up the charge for Everglades protections. This is a life changing read.
This is a bittersweet history of the Native Americans who lived in the Everglades, the explorers who tried to conquer it, the Florida people, and the Everglades itself. It is a story of greed and corruption as well as hope. Definitely a book to be enjoyed and pondered.
A vivid and insightful read covering the history, science, politics that shaped the state (and still do). I've lived in Florida for 18 years and this book gave me a new understanding of my home. Curious if this was required reading for anyone in school?
ClassicIt is a thoughtful, elegant and lyrical description of a vast resource that has been squandered by the greed of man. Even now after 80 years since it was written, the story is true. Everyone should read and heed this story.
Read in 2014 - an exceptional woman with an exceptional story. A one woman crusade to save the Everglades, we could sure use her now in 2018!🐊
Superb!!! A must read for every Florida resident and all snowbirds!!!
Excellent history of Florida. Fun facts, brilliant descriptions, and a textbook that allowed Florida to come to life in new ways for me.
Long, and in some parts, hard to get through, but this is a beautifully written book with many interesting pieces of history.
Amazing prediction of just the destruction that has occurred to the Florida Everglades
it took me a long time to read this book, and even longer for me to get into it.
This book wasn't really just about the Everglades it was really almost the whole history of Florida.
I really got into that part.
I'm not the best one for science but I love history.
The history of the Everglades is both fascinating and painful at the same time.
This book reinvigorates the interest in my heart to fight for the restoration and maintenance of the Everglades.
it's a long challenging book, but well worth the time to read it.
Marjory Stoneman Douglas gives a thoughtful and detailed perspective on the turbulent history of the native Indians, settlement, invasion, greed, struggle, and over-development from nearly the beginning time.
At the center of it all is the beauty of the Everglades and its sad and misinformed use over time, once settlement began.
Douglas takes us through the near destruction of a major ecosystem in attempts to clear the land for development of pastureland and housing.
It is an enlightening and significant read for those who love Florida as well as those who know little about it.
The Truth is Stranger Than Non-Fiction Book Club gave "The Everglades: River of Grass" by Marjory Stoneman Douglas a 4.5 out of 5.
Since they all seemed to like it so much and there are no half-star ratings, it was rated up to a 5.
The group liked that it was not simply about the ecology of the Everglades, but about the history of the surrounding area and how the Everglades impacts Southern Florida.
A definite recommend for this definitive book on not only on the importance of the Everglades to the health of the ecology of Florida but also being a precursor for the Florida environmental movement.
River of Grass is basically the most iconic piece written about the Everglades. It was published in 1955, so some of the scientific and historical stuff is a little inaccurate and vaguely racist, but the story is still good. Even though it's about the natural foundation of the Everglades and the history of its peoples, Douglas's mood is calm and conversational throughout. One can tell that she's telling a story about a powerful naturally entity that she loves dearly and connects with on a very deep level.
