https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12577.The_Collected_Stories
Finished Welty's first collection, A Curtain of Green and Other Stories, published in 1941. Highly recommended. My favorite stories include "Keela, the Outcast Indian Maiden," "A Curtain of Green," "Old Mr. Marblehall" and "Why I Live at the P.O." Of the 17 stories here the only one that doesn't seem to work is "Powerhouse"--perhaps because of all the dialogue rendered in dialect. Everything else has held up remarkably well.Now reading the collection "A Wide Net." Finished the first two tales: "First Love" and "A Wide Net." Rich, emotionally complex stories that merit multiple readings. Still reading.
Except for a few in anthologies, (like the great "Why I Live at the P.O." and "Death of a Traveling Salesman," both included here) this is my first time reading her short stories, and I can't believe it took me this long to get to her.
(July 23, 2012)The two 'uncollected stories' (written in the early 60's) that end this volume say much more than they might seem to say, and are further evidence of Welty's keen eye, now trained on the changing times.
The richness of such talent resists a summing up...
After all there are forty one stories here, written over a time span of around thirty years: naturally they defy summing up, duh.
But I'm being uncharitable towards Ms Howard: any quote on the back of a book takes the quotee's words out of context.
And in fact I'm twisting what she says, as she never claims that the stories resist summary, but rather that Welty's talent cannot be pigeon-holed.
Maybe that's how to sum up Ms Welty: she never has the arrogance to believe that she knows.
Then, there is a surprise uber-racist ending of a couple of unpublished stories.The one story in The Golden Apples that is worth reading is Moon Lake.
It starts out slow, like a lot of hers do, but it’s worth it for the way it ends.
Well, maybe just the first one and the title story of the second.It took me about three years to read this collection of short stories, so I feel like I should be able to write something more profound about it.
The Collected Stories of Eudora Welty contains all the best of her life's work as a writer.
Welty was not temperamentally a novelist, though her short novel The Optimist's Daughter is totally worth reading.
The short story was the right form for her.
This book, besides containing within it The Golden Apples (see my separate review), holds other masterpieces that will repay many re-readings.
Her work gets deeper and deeper as you contemplate it.
As the collection progresses this hesitancy disappears, and stories stretch out into multi-sectioned affairs, and the characters are allowed room to grow and thrive.All this stated, there was no single story in here that truly blew me away; just a steady growth and presentation of exceptional talent - Welty was undeniably an incredible writer, but I was surprised (having read all of her novels last week), that a writer so known for her short fiction would have presented some of her best prose in the longer form (the actual prose of Delta Wedding is stronger than mostly anything here, in spite of its flaws).
In some of her stories, Welty’s adeptness at getting you into a character’s frame of mind, while also giving you backstory through dialogue, is spellbinding. Papa-Daddy woke up with this horrible yell and right there without moving an inch he tried to turn Uncle Rondo against me. I heard every word he said. Oh, he told Uncle Rondo I didn’t learn to read till I was eight years old and he didn’t see how in the world I ever got the mail put up at the P.O., much less read it all, and he said if Uncl
I heard every word he said.
Her prose is so vivid in its appeal, especially at the beginning of some stories (“The Key” for example), that I found myself meandering in the mystery and satire.
She listened for its scattered soft drops between Jamey’s words, its quiet touching of the spears of the iris leaves, and a clear sound like a bell as it began to fall into a pitcher the cook had set on the doorstep.
Oddly, I mostly enjoyed Welty’s first collection (1941): A Curtain of Green And Other Stories: Short, sweet, sensational lyrical prose.
A wonderful, awe-inspiring story collection that spans Welty's career.
Reading it with friends, as I've done here, has added to my enjoyment of the stories themselves and to my knowledge of Welty and understanding of the influences behind her writing.As to what are my favorite?
And I know I will be dipping into this book in the future to sample these stories again at my leisure and will have more to say about favorites then too.Thank you to Teresa, Mikki, Karen (and Cynthia at the end) for making this such a great reading experience.
In fact, her entire first collection, A Curtain of Green, is as tough as anything Hemingway produced in his stories, and I dare say, she has more range that Hemingway and O'Connor (who can seem a trifle deterministic and predictable over the course of several stories in comparison).
It ranks up there with Melville's "Barleby the Scrivener," Hemingway's "Big Two-Hearted River," O'Connor's "A Good Man is Hard to Find," and Baldwin's "Sonny's Blues," as the one of the greatest of American short stories.
In 41 Welty was erroneously tagged as a "grotesque" by Katharine Ann Porter, and that reputation is hard to avoid in the early, famous stories like "Petrified Man" and "Why I Live at the PO." They're funny tour-de-forces, innovative in voice and form.
My own preference is for the later stuff; "The Bride of the Innisfallen" is one of those long, seemingly plotless stories (sort of like "The Dead") in which nothing happens until right at the end.
There are also two previously uncollected stories, including "Where is the Voice Coming From?", a fictionalization of the murder of Medgar Evans.
Through their writing, readers all over the world captured a glimpse of the poor, the struggling, the different, the proud, the hard-working, the true Southerner that other writers only envisioned in their imaginations.
Gone was the verbosity of Faulkner and replaced in its stead the stark reality of what it was to be a "southerner." In her short story,"The Worn Path," a simple tale of an elderly Mississippi woman, Welty encapsulated a wealth of imagery and symbolism that still is the topic of debate for students, writers and philosophers world wide.
Since most of her stories take place in Mississippi and New Orleans I decided to read The Collected Stories Of Eudora Welty (1982).
The book contains the short story collections A Curtain of Green, The Wide Net, The Golden Apples, and The Bride of the Innisfallen, as well as previously uncollected ones.
The next collection, Golden Apples, has a list of Main Families in Morgana, Mississippi and a note explaining that it is a fictional place.
Eudora Welty found her genre in the short story, withut a doubt.
Tthe travelling salesman came by just last week and you should have the new kitchen things any time now.
Everyone is anxious to see them.Of course everything is not sweetness and light in these stories and Welty masterfully doesn't look for causes as much as she shows how people function.
People run around doing funny things and ultimately, well most all you can do is tell the story in the porch tonight and listen to mother cluck her tongue and watch for father's sly grin.In many ways.
Lots of people look down on Eudora Welty because they think she writes "cute" stories. Her most widely anthologized stories, like "Why I Live at the P.O." are funny, definitely, but the overall effect of her work is a sort of screwball, Southern Gothic weirdness that verges into all sorts of untraditional territory - mystery, horror, quasi-religious allegory. If you like Flannery O'Connor, I'd make the case that you'll like Eudora Welty as much, if not more.
I really, really, really wanted to like these stories, but it was like watching paint dry for me trying to get through these. For the one or two gems in the story - Petrified Man, Why I Live at the P.O., and Livvie were great! - there were twice as many that I read with eyes propped open, trying not to fall asleep. Maybe when I'm older, I'll appreciate these more? Oh, wait. I am old, now.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra - A Short Story of Gothic:Watery parallels to Greek mythology, as life gets too much for a woman in Mississippi. Barbara Barnes reads Eudora Welty's tale.
[image error]Barbara Barnes reads Eudora Welty's Southern Gothic tale about unrequited love and loneliness
What can I say of Miss Welty that has not already been said? Just read the work. It will make you more a human.
Moving short-story that explores power dynamics within a family, issues of self-worth, and possible mental illness.
I wondered if she listened to a metronome while she was writing (just kidding.) The characters bloom at the start of the story.
The last two chapters were written with Medgar Evers, and a violence during a demonstration in mind.The stories include a strained mother and daughter relationship, people at a train station, Mrs. Larkin and her garden, and a couple who meet in New Orleans.My favorite story is No Place For You, My Love.
Welty uses the two characters voices, including their thoughts, and she pans out away from them and tells the story herself.
In a time where I see 800+ page novels as common and editing has become a lost art, Eudora's short stories are truly counter cultural.
She say more in 3-500 words than most writers can in 3-500 pages.
I remember the first time I read one of her stories.
She looked like a classic, Southern school marm and I was in ripped up jeans, punk t-shirt, combat boots and piercings.
The whole of the Southern struggle and angst is wrapped up wonderfully inside these stories.
Treat them with respect, and they'll envelope you like warm blankets on a cool night.
My method for reading collections is to go one story (or several) per day until it's done. Welty's collection is more of a casual, lazy, pick-it-up-when-you-feel-like-readin'-one type of book. We're really not compatible, sorry.
A rich buffet of southern cooking, almost too rich to be read one after another. She's the standard and hard to top.
This book lives permanently on my bedside table for when I am between books. I read a story or two and get my Eudora Welty fix. Always need me some good southern characters!
What I do in writing of any character is to try to enter into the mind, heart, and skin of a human being who is not myself.
It is the act of a writer’s imagination that I set most high.” —Eudora WeltyFavorite Stories:“The Petrified Man” (hilarious!)“The Key”“Why I Live at the P.O.”“A Still Moment”*“Shower of Gold”Passages:“It was quiet in the waiting room of the remote little station, except for the night sounds of insects.
193“Time goes like a dream no matter how hard you run, and all the time we heard things from out in the world that we listened to but that still don’t mean we believed them.
A good collection of stories by Eudora Welty. I thoroughly enjoyed reading some stories which were incredibly enlightening and memorable. Others weren't so good according to my opinion. However, the author has an amazing talent of carving stories and characters that astonish the reader and please the mind.
"Why I Live At The P.O.", maybe?This is the kind of fine, human-scale writing that reminds you why Lit writing is important as an approach - in this particular case moments in time captured in prose, a sensibility of a place and era, a subtle ear for local dialect and character, all painstakingly laid down in little cut-gem short fictions.I'll start with an oddity - a piece that does not actually appear here: "Acrobats In The Park" was possibly Welty's first piece of fiction, published much later in life and, thanks to Google Books, capable of being read online before random chance throws in a "missing page".
SIX WORD REVIEW: Five years and I’ll be ready.
Hard to call them characters when they all feel so real.Like Steinbeck, or other "naturalistic" writers, Welty's style reads deceptively simple.I learned so much from these stories - about people, about writing, about a non-gothic South (U.S. South, that is, land of Faulkner).This book forced me to confront the dark, list-making side of myself.
It took me forever to read this collection and at some stages I stopped enjoying the journey because I couldn't foresee when I might be able to check this one off the list.
The irrelevant list of what I am reading.
One of the uncollected stories, "Where Is the Voice Coming From?" was written in response to the murder of Medgar Evers. It's a challenging but incredible work. "Old Mr. Marblehall" would be a good one to teach in an intro to fiction class.
