https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35403058-city-of-ghosts
A girl who almost drowned.The ghost boy who pulled her back.A very haunted city.I am really proud of this book. I hope you guys enjoy it.ETA: OH MY GHOST, we're up for a Goodreads Choice Award!!!
Don't get me wrong—I loved this book, but how come ghost books are always about ghosts from the 1800’s or something? Why aren’t there stories about ghosts from 2015 who scream “DEEZ NUTS!” at 3 in the morning and scare the ever loving shit out of you? This is very relevant to my interests.
I loved this! I mean... going into it, I knew it'd be something I'd end up enjoying. I'm kind of bias when it comes to Victoria Schwab. OKAY A WHOLE LOT BIAS. I can't help it though! She's a HECKA talented author. From the epic world building, to the luscious writing style, enticing characters, & unique stories! There's a reason I fall for her books so easily.
I would absolutely recommend to paranormal lovers.CW: drowningI have read fantastic young adult and adult fiction works from Victoria Schwab and I have to say, she’s done it again with this new excursion in her writing!
The overall atmosphere of this book is immaculate and I’m so excited to read future installments in this series.My one main critique of City of Ghosts is that it felt fairly simplistic.
But it did not blow me away and I desired more from the story.I would definitely recommend City of Ghosts and will be anxiously awaiting book two!I received a free copy of this book from Scholastic at Book Expo 2018.
ARC provided by Scholastic in exchange for an honest review.  “People think that ghosts only come out at night, or on Halloween, when the world is dark and the walls are thin. But the truth is, ghosts are everywhere.”  City of Ghosts is a middle grade novel that has such a perfect spooky atmosphere, and it’s set around scary places in Scotland. Like, sounds perfect, true? And, as always, Victoria’s writing is so very beautiful and lyrical. I think this will be such a fun fall read for so many re
City of Ghosts is a middle grade novel that has such a perfect spooky atmosphere, and it’s set around scary places in Scotland.
I think this will be such a fun fall read for so many readers.
*throws confetti everywhere* Cassidy Blake isn’t the most popular girl in her school, but she has the only friend that she needs; a ghost named Jacob that saved her from death.
Also, you can really tell that Victoria is banking on her previous fans buying this, because yeah, twenty and thirty year olds are going to love nods to Harry Potter, but a new and actual middle grade audience?
Yup. Loved this. Doesn’t matter what genre or age demographic Victoria writes for, her stories are always so amazing. They speak to something deep within my soul.
ETA: Queen Schwab has now joined the small, elite group of authors who has hit bestsellers lists in Adult, YA, and Children's releases, and I can't think of anyone who deserves it more. 💖 As someone who loves ghost stories, stories set in Scotland, middle grade horror, and Victoria Schwab, City of Ghosts is like some sort of literary perfect storm for me. It was one of my most anticipated releases of the year, to the point at which, when I received the eARC approval notification, I literally st
As someone who loves ghost stories, stories set in Scotland, middle grade horror, and Victoria Schwab, City of Ghosts is like some sort of literary perfect storm for me.
Cassidy is able to see ghosts, and to travel beyond the Veil, thanks to an accident that left her somewhere in between the living and the dead.
While I do consider City of Ghosts spooky enough to be considered horror, I think it’s going to be important for readers to keep in mind that this book is middle grade horror—it’s written for children, not adults.
Turns out her best friend IS a ghost, but a human one.
I have read so many of Schwab's novels, but never a middle-grade one and it's amazing how the author adjusts her writing but still keeps her voice.I would have been fairly spooked if I had read this book as an 8-year-old kid if I'm being honest.
Oh, and if you are a Potterhead, this is a perfect book for you, too.I rate this book with 4 stars because I was not as involved in the story, and did not get as warm with the main character as I would have liked it to be.
(2.5) Well this was a disappointment but I suppose it's partly my fault.I didn't realize this was a Middle Grade book which isn't my cup of tea. Schwab's forte is her writing in my opinion and unfortunately a MG book doesn't show it AT ALL. This was a quick read and a little girl seeing ghosts wasn't uninteresting but I wouldn't recommend it unless you are 12 or under, or usually love MG.
Good, but you and I both know Victoria Schwab could have done so, so much better.I'll attempt to film a video review (my first one!) later this week. Wish me luck! :)
I loved getting to know different places around the city and it definitely added to the atmosphere of the book.But god, the most disappointing thing about City of Ghosts was the lack of good plot development.
And while I like how Cass and Jacob turned out at the end of the book, and the villain, I was really disappointed by how little we got to know a side character named Lara.Lara is an Indian girl who can also move between the worlds of the living and dead, and I really thought we’d see more of her.
Rating: 4.5 stars

The results are in:------------------------------------------Okay guys, let's duke it out. Does this cover look more like:A: the start of an anime theme-song sequence B: the cover for the sophomore album of a semi-popular alt rock band C: the girl from 'The Ring' has an adventure
Well that was cute 😊🎃Happy Reading!! Mel 🖤🐺🐾
Dead boy ghost friends and Gryffindor girls who plunge into trouble and quirky parents and sinister dark forces beyond the living realm that want to devour cHILDREN.
Mostly she just takes photos of them...but when her parents end up going to Edinburgh to visit some famous haunted sites + film their new show...Cass' adventures in the Veil get WAY darker.I do so so love how MG focuses so wholly on friendship.
(And possibly I felt Cass read more like a 9 year old?
I think if this was an adult book, she would have done an outstanding job.🌟 I saw some negative reviews (all from adult readers) which actually made me go into this with lower expectations.
If you are an adult reading this don’t expect it to be the next A darker shade of magic because it is not and nor it is supposed to be so.As a MG book, I give it 4 stars.As an adult reader, I give it 3 stars.🌟 Prescription: For MG readers and adults who enjoy the MG genre.
Schwab and her covers never disappoint.
This was so much fun! I can’t wait to see what kind of shenanigans Cassidy and Jacob get up to next.
This was not at all what I thought it was going to be (in a good way)! It was equal parts cute middle grade, creepy ghost stories, and fun adventure tale all in one! This is why Schwab is one of my FAVVVSSS
Despite me being annoyed by all the Harry Potter references (they were everywhere!!), this was a solid middle grade book.Nothing special and it felt a little rushed, but it had a nice idea, great writing style and characters with a lot of potential. I'm looking forward to seeing how Schwab is going to continue this story!
“My life is- Air in starving lungs. A hand grabbing mine. A light in the dark. The pebbles beneath me on the frozen bank, and water dripping from my hair, and Jacob saying, “I’ve got you.”  Story ⭐⭐⭐⭐Cassidy was dead once. Well, nearly. But someone, something saved her. A ghost, named Jacob. Now he’s her best friend and he’s always by her side.When her parents start a new documentary, Cassidy goes on a new adventure to Schottland. Even though I absolutely adore Victoria Schwab, her writing styl
Even though I absolutely adore Victoria Schwab, her writing style and the whole ghost story, I had some problems with the whole pacing in this book.
I’m absolutely in love with Jacob and Cassidy, their like partners in crime you want to team up with and go on a ghost hunt.
Like Cassidy who was saved by Jacob.
Victoria Schwab is a Master of world building and has a fascinating brilliant writing style.
You’ll love Victoria Schwab even more.Relationships ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️The most pure and innocent relationship is the one between Jacob and Cassidy.
Well, I'm a huge fan of Edinburgh & Schwab, so this was obviously a great setup.
The story felt like a fun middle grade read with just the right amount of creepy, but it might not appeal to fans who mostly read her adult books.
I genuinely love middle grade, though, and thought this was a really solid, well-rounded story with a creative premise!Cassidy's a Ravenclaw who died while drowning but was brought back by Jacob, a ghost who's now her best friend.
Schwab is an amazing storyteller and this book really shows how broad her range is!Thank you to the publisher for sending me an ARC.
Cassidy and Jacob's friendship is so incredibly adorable and I am living for it.Cassidy's parents just so happen to be a well-known author duo who have written a book series that's like a mash-up of history and ghost stories.
I really enjoyed the action-packed goodness of Cassidy and Jacob running through the living realm and the veil in a race against time to try and beat the Red Raven, I can't even tell you how fast I was flipping through the pages.
It's a page-turning story (seriously, I read it in the span of 3 hours) about Cassidy Blake, an iconic 12-year-old girl who can cross the Veil, the curtain between our reality and its overlaid landscape of ghosts.
It's amazing :')My main takeaway is that I need to read more middle grade.
Plus, we have Vengeful coming out 2 days after I hit the "save" button on this review, and we all know THAT is set to mess me up for life.All things considered, I'd say this was a 3.5-star read.
Y'all can thank me, I sold my soul so we can get more Victoria Schwab books in 2018.Anyways, I have a vague sense that I read this book somewhere before. Perhaps in another book by Schwab. *Cough* The Archived *cough*.  But there's no Mackenzie and Wesley and it wasn't as good, which is a shame.Also it's probably a three star book, but my future children's first words are probably gonna be "Victoria Schwab" so I added a bonus star just for that.
UK COVER YOU HAD BETTER COME THROUGH!😍🤩😍🤩😍🤩
finished this on day 2 of booktubeathon and forgot to mark it! love love loved it. A perfect read for the fall/halloween time and definitely a new middle grade favorite.
*full review now posted*  "Every time I get nervous or scared, I remind myself that every good story needs twists and turns. Every heroine needs an adventure."   City of Ghosts  is a middle-grade paranormal book about a girl who had a near death experience and now she can see ghosts. Cassidy is dreaming about her ghost-free summer vacation on the beach, until her parents – who happen to be sort of ghost hunting team -, announce that they got a new TV show about haunted places, so the girl has to
is a middle-grade paranormal book about a girl who had a near death experience and now she can see ghosts.
At least she gets to take her best friend, Jacob, with her – although he is not exactly alive.This is my second Victoria Schwab, which btw is weird because I actually own a bunch of her books.
I’ve never been there, so I can’t say if it was well represented, but considering Schwab spends a lot of her time in that city, she probably knew what she was doing.
Thank you Edelweiss and Scholastic for sending a review copy in exchange for an honest review. “People think that ghosts only come out at night, or on Halloween, when the world is dark and the walls are thin. But the truth is, ghosts are everywhere.” We follow the adventures of Cassidy Blake and her best friend Jacob who happens to be a ghost. What new adventure will Cass venture on this time? And will it be different than all the others?I got approved for City of Ghosts two days ago and I still
We follow the adventures of Cassidy Blake and her best friend Jacob who happens to be a ghost.
And will it be different than all the others?I got approved for City of Ghosts two days ago and I still can't believe it.
This book was such a spooky and fun read!
If you love middle grade then this book will probably be pretty enjoyable.
I haven't gotten around to reading many books about ghosts and I'm really glad that I got to read this one.
The amount of HP references made me want to read the books all over again.
Loved Cass and Jacob's friendship.
