https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1076320.Henny_Penny
This book and it's crazy rhyming was one of my favorites as a child.
A very cute nursery tale with somewhat sad ending...The story starts with Henny Penny hit bey an fallen acorn. She thought the sky is falling and she set off to tell the king. Along the way she met many friends, until they went to the foxy Loxy's cave and never seen again.
A fun book to read and a real tongue twister.Henny Penny feels an acorn drop on her head and concludes that the sky is falling. She rushes off to tell the King. On the way she meets many friends who join her in her quest. She then meets a fox.The ending is a little dark, but maybe intended as a lesson against foolish conclusions, believing rumors without proof or trusting people without knowing their true character.
I’m not quite sure why I picked up this book from the new arrivals shelf at the public library to share with my nearly 13 year old daughter, except for the fact that I grab all the new arrival books.
We have a different version of Henny Penny that we would read again and again when my daughter was younger, that is very similar to this one by Paul Galdone.
When we were reading this last night my daughter interrupted to say very curtly “This book needs some pronouns.” I giggled so hard over that, such a different response from the little girl who would ask to hear the tale again and again.
Henny Penny a famous children's book is retold and illustrated by Paul Galdone.
This version of Henny Penny's setting has vivid art work, done in watercolor and pen and ink.
Each of the character's names rhymes,Ducky Lucky , Turkey Lurkey and the list goes on.
They are all flat characters with the exception of Foxy Loxy, he is a very rounded character.
The plot is suspenseful and has a closed ending.
The theme is not preachy but implies caution and trust of each other.
It is a classic story and a great tool for parents and teachers teaching trust.
Love the artwork.
The names throughout the book are rhyming: Henny Penny, Turkey Lurkey, Ducky Lucky, Goosey Loosey, etc.
Henny Penny gets hit in the head by an acorn and thinks the sky is falling.
Eventually, they come across Foxy Loxy who tricks all of the characters and feasts on them.Evaluation: The simple repetition and rhyming scheme of the names is helpful for students.
Although the ending is sad and may be a bit much for some students.
Teaching Ideas:The moral of this story is to see the truth for yourself, not believe what others say without investing.
A teaching idea for this would be the rhymes.
Just kidding- one more kid’s book review tonight. I liked the illustrations, but it was beyond laborious to read “Henny Penny, Cocky Locky, Ducky Lucky, Goosey Loosey, and Turkey Lurky” TWICE on every page. I started just saying “they” and “them” to simplify. Superfluous verbiage loses you stars. Sorry Henny Penny.
Henny Penny thinks that the sky is falling when an acorn falls on her head. She meets many new people on her way to see the king to tell him that the sky is falling. However, they get tricked by a fox and eaten.
Beautifully illustrated story of Henny Penny who believes the sky was falling and set out to tell the king.
This book would not help me kid get over his fear of foxes.... ha!
I haven't found a better version of "Henny Penny" than the classic Galdone.
This book has got the best rhymes and rhythms. It is an absolute delight to read. The whole concept of the fox feast is a little difficult to explain to a three year old!
I love all the rhyming names of the animals; Henny Penny, Cocky Locky,Ducky Lucky, Goosey Loosey, Turkey Lurkey, and Foxy Loxy.
Using the rhyming names is a very clever way to keep you involved with the story.
I am not sure if I would read this to preschoolers because the ending to me is a little scary, and would be hard to explain what happened when they met up with Foxy Loxy.Learing Experience:Henny Penny is a good book to help children with sequencing because different characters keep getting added.
Using a flannel board would also be a good way to retell the story.
I chose to read Henny Penny because they lady at Barnes and Noble told me it was a version of Chicken Little.
Henny Penny thinks the sky is falling so she ventures out to tell the king.
When the group runs into Foxy Loxy, he tells them he has a short cut to the kings...
I understand that there could be a message of telling an adult if something bad is happening but the whole eating thing, not really sure what message that sends to children.
It was very different from the Chicken Little book I have read.
Children will stay engaged by the repetition as one by one, various fowl follow Henny Penny who is on her way to tell the King the sky is falling.
A good story that can lead to a discussion on stopping to think and not being tricked.
Ages 4+Cleanliness: Henny Penny says "Goodness gracious."**Like my reviews?
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
On her journey to the king, she meets other birds and a rotten fox that wanted to "help." This book has no content concerns unless a parent does not want their child exposed to a fox eating the birds.
This book can be used to teach rhyming.
It can also be used to teach a moral lesson like "don't turn a mountain into a mole hill." Another moral we could discuss is to not follow the crowd!
I loved this book as a child and recommend to younger students in second grade to fourth grade.
It's so very similar to Chicken Little that the kids kept saying, "it's Chicken Little, not Henny Penny" and wanted to know when Chicken Little would show up.Well, darlings, it is a different story but does have many of the same characters.
And the ending is not so nice as Chicken Little.
Not nice at all.
In a funny way.My kids totally loved it once they figured out what was going on.
Nice old-fashioned looking illustrations with few colors.
The repetition of the names and text makes it easy for beginning readers to try this.Add it to your collection of stories that every child should know.

When I read this to my first graders over twenty years ago, I read it with gusto and loved it.It's good, don't get me wrong.But in an attempt to fill the traditional literature hole that my youngest son seems to have grown (thanks, in large part, to his birth order), I read it to him. And then it wasn't as good.The sky is falling, the sky is falling.A traditional story with strong elements of the genre, I simply must not have been in the right frame of mind to treasure this oldie but goodie.
My daughter loved this book so much, she read it twice in a row. She thought it was hysterical and picked up on the message immediately. She also knew right away that it was another version of Chicken Little. We actually like the art, the colors, the expressions. Reading through the reviews I just don't get other people…seriously, no offense, but how do you NOT pick up on the moral of this story?! And what is so horrible about animals being eaten by a family of animals? And why are people criticizing artwork that is 45 years old?
I adored this book!! I think this is an excellent children's book. It is engaging, interesting and easy to follow. Children love to participate and the repetitiveness helps children remember and retell a story. And we all know this helps children learn to read and read more!!Activity:I would read the story and then as a class together we would put on a play using all the characters from the book. I would have the children make costumes, have music, and put on their own version of the book from their perspective.
It's one of those seemingly innocent stories with sing-song rhyme and animal characters - but which have a macabre ending! I have always found myself very sympathetic of poor henny penny & her friends. On another note, this is an excellent book for use in interactive read-alouds with young children. While being engaging, with cute-sy animal characters, there is enough complexity in the interplay of characters' intentions and actions, that requires the reader to make predictions and inferences along the way.
Once I started reading the book, I recognized the rhyming names.
I didn't quite remember the ending, though I had a suspicion where the story was headed once we met the first non-fowl character (who turned out to be quite fowl!).
As the book description says--"clear and concise." Nothing too elaborate.
For an early reader it can help remind them who all is being spoken off.
The constant repeat is also good for a beginning reader, and could be good for use in a storytime as well.
The silly and almost predictable names are also good for both of those aspects, too.
Review: This book has a lot of repetition and the names rhyme (Henny Penny, Cocky Locky). I did not like the ended of this story, because the characters were eaten by Foxy Loxy. No child wants to hear that the characters were eaten at the end of the adventure. The illustrations are great and they go along with the story. Learning Experience: This would be a great story to use puppets! The moral of the story is hard for children to understand and grasp. Reacting the story will help the children come up with their own outcomes.
I have to say this is not a book I would use in a classroom setting or even at home for my own children. The concept of the animals coming together to talk the king was good and could be used to help teach companionship, but the fact that the fox eats everyone is a bit inappropriate.Lesson: I wouldn't use this book but if I had to teach a lesson I would try and tie it into the food chain and use that for a thematic unit, explaining the concepts of herbivore and carnivore and the food chain.
I was shocked by the ending of this book. I do not think I would ever read this to my class. I’m not sure that I see this as being appropriate for young children. This book maybe would be ok to read to a second grade class. This book does use names to rhyme. I wouldn’t read this book to young children.Learning Experience:I would not do a learning experience with this book because I would not read this book to my class.
This has always been a favorite story of mine. This story is a classic example of what can happen when you don't have the correct facts. Story my frighten kids younger than 5. My favorite episode of The Golden Girls is "Henny Penny Straight No Chaser"; this episode is based off this book. The song that Dorothy, Blanche, and Rose sing at the end of the show is hilarious.
I tried this as a read-aloud today and was met with the Kindergarten equivalent of dead-silence-with-lone-cricket-chirping. It just fell flat--especially when the kids realized that the fox family ate all the birds. I tried it with Kinders b/c of the repetition and the rhyming names. If I try this one as a read-aloud again, I'll try it with older students.
This book is a really funny book about henny penny who walks in the farmyard and something hits her on top of her head she then begans to run and tell the king that the sky is falling but on her way there she bumped into some friends and told them, after all she discovered it was just an appleLearning Experience- Have the kids act out the role of the book.
