https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/864741.A_Perfect_Stranger
this is the first DS book i read... since then i never stopped reading all DS Novels... still collecting DS Novels.. never STOPPED, Can't stop!!! =)
I don't know what it is about her books that suck you in, especially when 90% of the time you know what is going to happen.
I read this one in one day.
One thing that did bother me and she does this in a lot of her books.
Is that you see so much of the main characters struggles but then when everything is resolved and they get back together, the book is over.
That's what I wanted to know about this book.
Did Alex & Raphaella get married?
Have kids?
What happened with Amanda or Kay?
Too many unanswered questions.
It was a lovely story that makes you think that love at first sight is possible. The cultural differences of two worlds perhaps even three of the main character make you think of the freedom of thought we as "American" have.The resolution was a little too abrupt and the ending left me a bit dry, but as a whole it was a good story and kept me reading.
So on one hand while the author talks about how some women are too ambitious there is a parallel story where men marry off their daughters to powerful business men in order to expand their business and that's considered completely normal.
If you've read about her back story you know that she literally hasn't had any human interaction apart from that of her family.
The more I read this book the more I hate the characters and I just can't understand why it's been so hyped.
Please if there is anyone thinking about giving this book a try I hope you read this and decide not to.
It is an innocuous love at first, and it takes you through the sides of torn and what is right and moral.Raphaella marry's her fathers business partner John Henry when she is 18 years old.
When John Henry becomes incapacitated Raphaella does not give up her duties as a wife.
Even when she meets a man who falls in love with her she remains loyal to her husband whom she shows great respect.Perfect Stranger had me so afraid that the book would end badly but the author didn't fail me .
As usuall, she brought it to a delightful end.
Let me just say before I begin this rant: I HATE insta-love .
And I feel like there is always a pattern: a girl is larger than life, extremely beautiful, comes from a rich family and she immediately falls in love( literally in like 5 seconds) with a 45 year old man...
But then he's sick and dying but enlightened, he realises that he's too old for her.
Dude, you had to be ill to realise that u could be her grandfather just after 15 years of marriage?!
blah blah blah honestly, I struggled so much with this book, from the beginning I didn't like any character.
There are a few reasons why I didn't like this book.
Raphaella is reason number one.
Raphaella dragged Alex around too.
And Alex just let her do it.
If I was him, I would have been like no, either you want me or you don't.
Raphaella just really ruined the entire book for me.
I was rooting for Alex the whole time and he was more of a secondary character.The concept of this book was love at first sight.
The whole dynamic of this book was just really weird.
I would recommend it, I guess, if you are into books like this.
Read in Mallorca.I think it must be close to thirty years since I've read anything by this author, and I have to admit I came close to simply putting the book away several times.
The put-upon macho man, surrounded by overbearing yet successful females, yearning in vain for a true woman who will make his home a home....
the heroine who waivers between her overbearing father and her great sense of duty and guilt...the stricken husband, the demonic sister, the misunderstood teenager...
A holiday read, but not the best by this author.
<3 <3 <3
One of the best Danielle Steel books I've ever read.
She doesnt want to try to work things out, she wants to advance her career and not be tied down to a husband and a house.Alex goes running to destress when he comes upon a beautiful young woman who is so sad sitting on the steps crying, he is drawn to her then she disappears.
The 100 pages I read are filled with nothing more than endless inner monologues of him obsessing over the perfect beauty of a woman he's just met and knows nothing about.
Just as we are supposed to feel sympathy for Raphaella, we are supposed to feel sorry for Alex and root for him to find love and have his happy ending.
His love for Raphaella is completely shallow and lacking in any real meaning, because it's based purely on the fact that he's now found the perfect woman, completely placid and lacking in opinions or independence, that will simply be faithful and obey him without question for the rest of his life.
A história não é má, abrange temas interessantes como os laços familiares, uma vida demasiado protegida, a escolha entre a obrigação (pelo marido doente) ou o amor (pelo amante), o isolamento, a doença...
Mas ao mesmo tempo, Alex é demasiado irreal e a forma como se apaixona demasiado depressa retrata isso mesmo.
Rafaella acaba por ser demasiado insegura devido à vida protegida e a sua indecisão acaba por ser massacrante.
mas afinal é um livro escrito nos anos 80.
In love with Danielle Steel's way of writing.I slide through her words like butter. I hardly have an easy time taking a pose. I just want to take the journey in one gulp.A perfect stranger is an illustration of a delicate flower feeding from both old and fresh waters.Happy Reading Lovelies.
A chance meeting between a married woman and a single man causes sparks to fly and the woman disappears. The man tried to find out who she is but no one knows of her. The young man stops looking and years later their paths cross again. This is an excellent read for the genre.....DEHS
Don't remember what this was about
Another old Danielle Steel book that I read many years ago. A favorite at the time.
Great.
This book was good, but not as good as some of Dnielle's other books. This is why I rated it 4 stars.
putangina
Pois é uma escritora que admiro.Por isso, quando a alguns meses reparei que num shopping existia uma“feira” de livros em segunda mão, não me fiz de rogada e vasculhei.
Fiquei realmente curiosa, principalmente porque já não lia algo da DS desde o inicio do ano e porque gosto destas edições baratas (2€), traz-me boas lembranças.A Desconhecida é sobre uma mulher que em nova apaixona-se por um homem de uma certa idade.
Ela não pensa se quer em deixar este homem que apesar da sua idade é o homem que a faz feliz.
Couldn't wait for each new Danielle Steel book.
A los pocos años, ese hombre sufre varios ataques que lo dejan inválido, y su joven mujer tiene que quedarse presa en casa de ambos para dedicarse plenamente a su cuidado.De repente, ella coincide en un avión con un hombre joven, apuesto, rico… y se enamoran perdidamente.A quién elegirá ella: ¿A su marido enfermo sabiendo que va a perder al amor de su vida, o al amor de su vida, sabiendo que condenará a la muerte a su marido enfermo?ASPECTOS POSITIVOS: es fácil y rápida de leer.
my first Danielle Steel...a most romantic plot and i sense most of her book written as such but somehow, this book is draggy. Numerous times i read the declaration of the characters love for one another..the same love language which is used repetitively...then the push and pull effect where the characters decide on "to be or not to be"...these indecisiveness and romance repeatedly appear in most of the pages made the book rather draggy...anyway, its a decent book and thought it deserve a 3 from me....
I didn't fall head over heels with this story. It's not my favorite Danielle Steele book. It was just kind of okay and that makes me sad. I explain further on my blog www.booknerdbecca.comThe ending was sweet, but again, it was lacking. I really wanted more. It was just kind of like, "Okay, and now we're done." And after the huge intro of angsty stuff in the beginning, I really wanted more to go on at the end.It wasn't a bad story, but it was a little long for the amount of story you get. I gave it 2.5 stars.
this was an okay book. a guy sees this girl who is crying in a yard, so he goes and watches her (kinda creepy) but he ends up going on the same trip as she did and ends up finding out that she's married to a man who is about to die and she is only in her twenties, she loved him though. they end up having an affair and her husband died, but before he did he saw how happy she was and knew what she did and told her to be with the man.
i've learn many new things from this book.i very like it because she use the simple language and i can understand it clearly.this book helps me to improve my grammar and languange.it is my first english novel, i thought.i had borrowed it from my friend and i had finished reading it in two weeks(how amazing!) because i've never been reading english novel in such short time.well, i don't know how to tell how i like this book very much.thank you.
A rather corny romance with some unbelievable coincidences and characters. But there were a couple of characters that were so despicable that I had to read on, hoping they'd get their just due. This was one of the author's books I added to my list after reading her novel Toxic Bachelors. But after this one I might just remove her other titles from the list as a waste of reading time.
A lovely story that makes you think that love at first sight is possible – if you are a romantic at heart. It was bit over exaggerated – even a perfect love has some problems. Don’t get me wrong, it was a good story that kept me reading but once I finished it, I felt unsatisfied as the overall plot is dry and a lot of the characters’ stories remain unresolved.
This beautiful book I remember reading when i was 16. And i cant forget it. The pain the love the longing and the true way of expressing that love isnt perfect its actually the most difficult thing to acquire and keep. The struggles that Raphaella, and how she tries to battle between diong the right thing and struggle to make herself happy is so well shown.
