https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5181.Jewel
I picked this one up a few weeks ago, skimming through it to refresh my memory as best I could and then finished reading it.
Jewel who already has five children finds herself pregnant with her sixth child.
The family is devastated but Jewel is determined to do whatever she can to make Brenda Kay's life easier.
I'm glad I went back and finally finished this one but in the end I just felt like something was missing and I couldn't get past many of Jewel's actions and her ego.Thank goodness that I now have Goodreads to find new books to read.
I bought this book over a decade ago and I had no time to read it then.
But my mind says that I should at least give this a chance to be read.I was not disappointed on this wonderful novel.
This novel is rich about a lot of Jewel's stories from her experiences with her mom, dad, grandmother, school, colored people such as Cathedral, up to her husband Leston and children.
I can see a that there are a lot of not-so-good past reviews and thank goodness that I didn't succumb on believing them right away.
We follow Jewel through every quiet and inconsequential moment of her life, each of which is laden with Important Symbolism that inspires to make the reader feel moved to tears, but instead inspires boredom with its mawkish, sentimental tone.The book ostensibly follows the titular character as she struggles with the highs and lows that accompany raising her developmentally disabled daughter, Brenda Kay, a character who never quite transcends the nascent, cloying vignettes given to her.
Nearly 100 pages pass before Brenda Kay's disability is revealed, purely because Lott feels the need to complicate the story with background information about Jewel, none of which provides much more insight into her character.
I've worked with special needs adults for 21 years and have interviewed many, many families.
Like others who have commented, I was frequently struck with amazement that it was written by a man.
From a literary point of view, I'm not sure all of the developmental information about Jewel was needed, but much of it was.
Siblings frequently describe feeling pushed aside.
So the thickness of the southern stereotypes didn't bother me that much.In all, it is a must-read for people who work with special needs families.
One should not read past reviews until you finish a book.
Alot of 2 and 3 stars; but I liked this book immensely, so I gave it a five!
Instead of putting her daughter, Brenda Kay, in an institution Jewel believes she can "fix" her daughter by moving to California where there is help for such children.
Jewel's dedication to Brenda Kay is honest and genuine even sometimes to the detriment of the rest of the family.
But there are also tender scenes of family love as well as Jewel's personal duel with God. Hard to believe it was written by a man!
I liked this book.
I *really* like the prose style of the author.
I just didn't much like the story line, hence the 3 stars, rather than more.
If I could, I'd give the author 5 stars for writing style, and 2 stars for story line.
What really bugged me was a male author, writing from the first person perspective of a woman.
The story would have been interesting from the first person perspective of the father, too.
Why didn't he write it this way?I didn't get this book at all.
The book didn't build up to anything, it was just about Jewel's boring life.
I read for about 10 minutes at a time (while smoking or pooping), so I need a book that will keep me interested and maybe even make me want to sit down and read instead of watching TV or whatnot.
All the internal dialogue in "Jewel" was excruciating.
I am not a literary genius so I am not going to "read into" anything, I am going to read what is in front of me.
Don't waste your time on this book, unless you need a cure for insomnia.
I think this book was so well written, the characters are so well developed and even now, after reading it over a year ago, I still am amazed that it was written by a man.
Brett Lott wrote Jewel extremely well.But, a book being well written doesn't make me love it.
Some might see it as inspiring that she was so determined to get to California despite all obstacles, but to me she sacrificed a lot more than their things to get there, starting with Leston.It's a great book for discussion, especially when everyone in the group didn't love it :)
Always.So when I came across the book sitting on a shelf in my book case recently, I was struck with the realization that I had read half the book but clearly never finished because the bookmark was still inside.
Jewel, here I come again!In short, the book is about how a rural Mississippi family coped with the birth of a Downs Syndrome child in the 1940’s.
I have the feeling that if someone in my family had Downs Syndrome, I may have liked this book more because I may have identified with the characters.
I was so happy to FINALLY get through this book. I always feel obligated to finish books I start but had a tough time with this one. The story is a good one but written in a way that jumps back and forth between the protagonist's childhood and adulthood which I didn't care for. It did get much better late in the book but I've come to the conclusion that Oprah and I have a difference of opinion regarding praiseworthy books.
This story is not only about Jewel, although a large portion of it follows her journey as a cast-off orphan to a mother of five and lifelong caregiver to her mentally-challenged daughter.
In short, this novels delves into so many facets of our existence that we surely question, struggle with, seek to find peace with, in our own lives.
This was a novel that broke my heart and mended it at the same time and left me feeling wholly satisfied at its conclusion, sad to part with these beloved characters.
This was definitely a thoughtful read - not fast paced or exciting - but issue and character driven.
Immediately you realize that the baby is not normal in some aspect and once the baby, Brenda Kay, is diagnosed with Down's Syndrome, it is evident that the lives of Jewel, her other five children and her husband are forever changed.
She is willing, able and determined to journey anywhere and at anytime to find the best possible education/training/life for her daughter.Read this one when you wish to be challenged and want to learn more about families who openly accept, indeed embrace, a mentally challenged child.
I almost quit this book at least 3 different times but I kept on reading.
First the good points: The topic interested me greatly when I read the back cover.
For such an emotionally charged topic, I felt little emotion reading the book.
I was touched with a few scenes with Brenda Kay and her siblings (one of my good points), yet the siblings seemed so fake.
Especially considering the family became so poor caring for Brenda Kay. Never once did any of the siblings display any of those feelings that I would consider understandable.
The intrinsic feelings of a woman, wife, mother were very wisely written.
. .the only true victory any mother could ever hope for: the looking of a child, whether retarded or not, to you for what wisdom you could give away before you left for whatever recokoning you had with the God who'd given you that wisdom in the first place."My favorite part was chapter 15 when the story of Jewel and her husband is told while the present day husband and wife are heading for a rare romantic tryst.And lastly, it's always fun to have the city you live in named in a book!
Jewel, the title character, narrates her story of life after--and before--giving birth to her sixth child, Brenda Kay, who has Down Syndrome.
Jewel questions the character of a God who would allow this trial in her life, but falls back on what her past experiences have taught her: that she can fix situations, fix her own life.
Interesting thoughts on devotion to family, husband/wife roles, what it means to have "quality of life," and how a person is shaped by past experiences.
Having watched family members raise two special needs children I can relate to what Jewel experienced in this book with the birth of her daughter.
The book focuses too much on the burden that Brenda Kay is instead of showing ways in which she added to the family.
I found much of the book to leave me feeling sad but can also appreciate the love the family has for each other even as they go through the many struggles and trials they experience.
Such a sad sack of a woman. and way too much use of the N-word.
Onvan : Jewel - Nevisande : Bret Lott - ISBN : 671042572 - ISBN13 : 9780671042578 - Dar 535 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 1991
The story essentially covers the entire life of the main character, Jewel, but the author does so in a way that is sensitive, believable, and never feels unfocused.
I enjoyed Lott's perception and honest insight into human character.
Contrary to what some others have said, I don't think the author hates Mississippi, nor did I find it in any way awkward that a male wrote in female first person.
I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys novels about human character and condition, and the struggles each of us face as we journey through life.
He handles the teenage girl's perspective as she nears her new home in LA, the adult woman's perspective as she raises her children and makes a life for her family despite the odds, and her boys' viewpoints as they begin families of their own, and her cigarette-smoking husband Leston.
With simple gestures, Lott uses Leston's cigarette to stand for the dialogue he is unable to speak.
Like many wives, Jewel knows how to read her husband's silent gestures and the reader understands their simple and undeniable love.Fact is I met this author at a conference in Geneva -- was fortunate to take a workshop with him, but for some reason I had not read this stunning novel until now.
I was surprised that a male could write with the extreme amount of sensitivity and depth to the many female issues such as child birth, breast feeding, demands of a newborn, that are covered in this book, and with such tenderness at that.
Wow, can't wait to read more of his work.
At times it is painful to read of "the hard road" that so many poor people walk thru this life on - you want it to stop but yet can't wait to find out how these lives work out.
Especially meaningful to me was the span of a lifetime covered in the book and how you actually felt yourself growing old as if your own life was winding down.
The story begins in the 30's, if I remember with the birth of a Down Syndrome child to a family in the deep south.The story describes the many difficulties the family members had dealing with the problems the child brought.
The mother had difficult choices to make and, subsequently, so did the other family members.
But, I do know that having a special needs child, even today, presents the difficulties of making hard choices.
The emotional aspect and worry that most parents go through is high.
I loved working with my students and with the majority of their parents.
I thought the author did a good job of developing various characters' awareness and adjusting their behavior accordingly ...
again staying true to reality in that some people cannot or do not break old habits while others learn and grow through travels and life experiences.
The reason I could not go with five stars is that there's a key segment of Jewel's life that the author skipped over, and because I felt like he did not develop the concept of the major theme (how God smiles on us as individuals) clearly enough.
An amazing, touching novel about a mother's love and dedication to her retarded daughter spanning over 40 years.
The mother, Jewel, is among the first mothers to decide to raise a retarded child within the family when most doctors were advising parents to place them in institutions.
Jewel's determination, sacrifice and hope for her daughter continually reminded me of how my mother-in-law focused her life for over 50 years caring for her Down Syndrome daughter.
The author completely captures the emotional roller coaster of loving, caring for and living with a mentally disabled family member.
Although the pace was a bit slow, I thought it was well-crafted.
I especially liked the depiction of a marriage when the partners have opposing wants and there is no room for compromise.
It is a universal subject that, I think, all partnerships experience at least once.
I also liked following the growth of the character of Jewel, not only for her personally but also seeing it through the perspective of American society when it, too, was experiencing a tremendous change during the post-WWII years and into the Civil Rights era.
Certainly worth reading and has room for much discussion in a book club setting.
The story was just too long.
It seemed like the story should have ended after Billie Jean came out to California, Brenda Kay was making some friends and progress, Dad has a good job, and everyone in the family is settled.
That would have been a good place for a natural ending.
Then back to CA in not as nice of a home with not as nice of a job.
Then we are told that Leston died as a matter of fact like we are discussing the weather.
It was like the author didn't know where or how to end the story.
A very moving tale, nostalgic and sentimental, on occasion it felt overly so, but it was rarely a slog trying to get past Jewel’s detailed analysis of her thoughts and feelings.It felt a lot longer then its 358 pages but not in a bad way, it was certainly gripping in places, and my favourite aspect was how you feel like you’re ageing with Jewel, experiencing her adventures and reminiscing her history with her. Enjoyed the contrast between outback Louisiana and urban California.Emotional ride and would very much recommend.
I have a soft spot for books about disadvantaged kids. Here was another one about a child with Down syndrome, and the sacrifices made by a mother who loved this child, to keep her and raise her. Beautifully written, deeply felt.
A first person narrative. After reading two or three of these Oprah book selections, I got bored to death.Oh yeah, the protagonist is a selfish ass. My subconscious has been constantly praying for her untimely demise!
An absolutely wonderful, moving story about family. The love, loyalty, sacrifices that they make for each other. I would recommend this book to everyone.
