https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15722482-my-first-wife
I would have loved to see how his future panned out in the pursuit of love and happiness.This was written in the days of Freud being alive and writing and I sense a physiological approach to the writing here with questions on relationships, trust, and love and success and failure as a writer or any man in Vienna of that time.One question I leave with the possible reader of this story is..Did Alexandre tame the wild Ganna?"There, in the valley that had become home to us, we were allowed to forget the world in flames.
I received an ARC from the publisher.Wassermann presents us with the story of Alexander Herzog and his disastrous marriage to a woman from a middle-class German family named Ganna.
No one ever thinks that Ganna could attract a man to marry; but Alexander, a young and up-and-coming writer, enters the scene and Ganna is smitten with him.The beginning of the story has a light and funny tone as Alexander tells us about Ganna’s devotion to him and his writing.
The marriage starts to unravel rather quickly because it is evident that Ganna is mentally unstable, volatile, paranoid, and quite possibly psychotic.
This divorce pushes Ganna over the edge to the point at which she is completely obsessed with making Alexander’s life miserable.

Ganna is seen as all too controlling, and is given every horrible female stereotype imaginable- femme fatale, harping, shrieking and talented, but the whole notion that she cannot live without Alexander (he does marry her for her dowry) is what made the novel one of the most masochistic reading experiences I've had, and in the most awful way.
Only another woman, the saintly Bettina can Alexander finally escape the wicked Ganna...it makes you think why the hell did he even marry this woman?
3.5 A dark, biographical novel about Wassermann's first marriage. He has fictionalized his characters- Wassermann is Alexander Herzog, a writer, who marries Ganna simply for the partnership and money. He soon realizes what a disaster this marriage is, and spends the rest of the novel trying to leave the marriage. None of the characters are the least bit likable- you feel pity for no one, and feel that in the end they get what they deserve. A curious book.
All the more disturbing when you learn the story is a lightly fictionalised version of author Jakob Wasserman's first marriage and protracted divorce proceedings, that he, in effect, was killed by the strain of it all, dying before publication.
The most sympathetic (and hardest to understand) character in the sorry story is Bettina, the woman Herzog first makes his mistress (one in a long string) then, finding himself in love for the first time, decides he must seek a divorce for, setting in train an unstoppable force of nature, woman scorned, Ganna the vindictive, vengeful first wife.
Melodramatic but definitely engaging, until it becomes so exhausting you just want it to end. Still an interesting book; Ganna is a character I'd never encountered before and the story itself a horrifying portrait of bourgeois marriage and divorce at its worst.
Devastatingly true and grim - makes Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf look like a cakewalk. Forget about Gone Girl's comparatively amateur antics: Wassermann's wife, not his life, is his punishment.
Nothing of significance has been omitted.’Alexander Herzog narrates the story in the form of an extended account of his relationship with Ganna Mevis over the past thirty years.
Alexander, a German Jew and published author, meets Ganna when he flees from Munich to Vienna to escape his creditors and the fallout from a love affair.
He will provide a substantial dowry, but in return Alexander must sign a prenup, a legal document that will contribute to his undoing in the years to come:The dowry was spelled out in figures; but the rights and duties of the respective spouses were described in utterly opaque legalese.
A brief summary of this book in a meme:Ganna: hoe don't do itAlexander: divorceGanna: oh my god
Wassermann's psychological portrait of his own disastrous first marriage might not sound like a compelling page-turner, but it is!
Told with almost no dialogue, the story details his former wife's furious efforts to marshal all the 'open oppression of the law*' against him and his new family.
His own complicity in her efforts is obvious, too — he is an unfaithful and improvident husband, who sabotages his own interests out of an attachment he cannot completely sever.Michael Hofmann's translation is excellent, as is his afterword, which succinctly analyzes the social context of the novel in the early 20th century.(*Dickens's phrase, not Wassermann's)
In the afterward the translator says that this book is a very thinly-veiled report on the author's first marriage and protracted divorce - the latter apparently killed him; he was able to finish writing the book but died before it was published soon afterward.
The narrative is stunning - initially the foibles of the author's wife are amusing to him and the reader, but the humor tends to fade as the pain increases, and does it ever!
Or rather, certainly read it if you have some doubts about the marriage into which you are about to enter.
hell hath no fury..... This is the harrowing, lightly fictioalized, account of the breakkup of the authors marriage and his subsequent divorce from his unwilling and manic wife. The story is just about the seperation and its aftermath, and anyone who has gone through a protracted and contentious divorce will read this with the same chill as I did. He must have been reading my mail, except he lived pre-war and in Austria. A great book, although you finish it feeling as though you have been eavesdropping on a private travail.
Wassermann (of whom I had never heard) both entertains and saddens in this account of a marriage gone awry. Ganna is at once a ridiculous figure, portrayed to great comic effect, and a poignant one. Nice job and thanks to the great blog mookseandgripes.com for recommending another winner from the NYRB stable.
A harrowing account of obsession and betrayal, made the more shocking when I learned it was only lightly fictionalised. Despite the disturbing torment he suffers at the hands of his ex-wife, one can't help but feel he exacerbated his own predicament by faults in character and spirit.
An in-depth account of a miserable marriage and subsequent divorce translated from German. The weltschmerz is overpowering. It doesn't get any heavier than this.
The breakdown of a marriage is evoked with the relentless doom of Greek tragedy and Mise-en-scène dreamt up by Oskar Kokoschka. Another crystal clear translation by Michael Hofmann.
Eh, not bad la for those who want to understand marriage.
Fascinating, would be chilling if written another way. My full review: http://www.noseinabook.co.uk/?p=1922
