https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/202601.Daily_Life_in_Ancient_Rome
The rest were given away to various hosts.Although translated from the French and although old, dating from 1940, Carcopino's reconstruction of late Republican and early Imperial Rome reads well, evincing excellent work by translator Lorimer.
From this the author gives his take on daily life in the ancient city, frequently interjecting his own opinions and occasionally (as, f.i., in making population estimates) representing the disagreements between himself and other scholars.The only complaint I have about the text has to do with my ignorance of modern Rome, never having been there myself.
The author makes many geographical references to modern sites and structures but the text lacks maps of either the antique or the contemporary city.
The principal reprimanded the teacher, but could do nothing because of the strength of Italian unions--I add as a lifetime union professor.) Interesting on Roman money, and the hours of the day, which varied in winter and summer, and they varied in length, 44 minutes per daylight hour around the Winter Solstice (when I write this), since the twelve "hours" divided about 9 hours of sunlight; while the night-time hours, also twelve, divided 15 hours, so each night hour was 1 hr 15 minutes.
Hours became standardized, of equal length, in the Middle Ages, when each hour was ruled by a "planet" just as the days of the week are: "Monday"/ Lunedi for the influence of the Moon, Tuesday /Mardi for the Norse God of War, etc.
An amazingly detailed account of what it was like to be alive during the zenith of the roman empire. The author describes the lifestyle of a roman citizen in an entertaining and informative way. A book targeted to people who enjoy history, and who show ravenous apetite for genral knowledge.
FULL NERD DISCLOSURE: I picked this up to give myself a decent research backbone for a piece of fan fiction I was writing (wow, that is - pretty nerdy).
The book feels dated (writing style, research methodologies) but it's a decent place to start, especially if you were reading it just to dip your toe in the waters of the history of Rome, perhaps to write your own 'AU' version of your favorite video game or movie characters.PS I ordered 'The Secrets of Rome: Love and Death in the Eternal City' - a newer book by Corrado Augias but it's been out of stock on Amazon for months now!
I read this immediately after Mary Beard's SPQR, and in that context the authori seems too gushing in his love for Ancient Rome and not questioning enough. Where Mary Beard is a scientist, Carcopino is a gushing gossip. None the less, the gossip is quite fun and interesting.
Rather interesting stuff. But holy hell, the author either hated the Romans, himself or the rest of the world. I don't know; I'm not a psychologist. This could have been a really great book, but instead I kept thinking, "Why would he spend so much time with something he obviously hates?" Rather distracting, and it ruins the book.
Eating habits, education, hygiene, concept of time, social hierarchy, sleeping arrangements, traffic, leisure. Very detailed. Sometimes too detailed. Probably would rate this four stars if the edition were better edited. I haven't read anything else on the subject so I don't know how the author's theories hold up today.
This was pretty dry.
It’s an older book with plenty of sources and lots of detail, but if you’re looking for something more like a narrative or for something to read leisurely, it would be better to go to a source like William Stearns Davis.
There is a wealth of information here, but it is not necessarily organized in an obvious way, and you don’t get to the “daily life” part of the book until about 100 pages in.
Since this book is old, some of the material may be dated, but my unfamiliarity with the history precludes me saying what.
Even though written more than 70 years ago, this meticulously researched analysis of life in Rome in the early centuries of the common era is fascinating, illuminating, and well written. Carcopino is a scholar with a sense of humor.
Very dated and reads more like a love affair than a piece of historical writing.
Uses good sources, but dated, and I could have done without the moralizing.
While the author completely exhausts his subject in an interesting way, the reader is often confused by conflicting statements mainly pertaining to different time periods.
While this is eventually explained at the end of the chapter/section, it makes fully understand the text difficult.Because the author wrote this story by subject and not by time period, it is sometimes hard to understand.
The book was well-written and used a higher vocabulary without taking away from the meaning of the story but enhancing the reader's understanding of the English language.
It's an unsettling experience to read this book.It is impossible to look at the Roman world in the same manner as one might look at Viking society, or at the Incas.
But nobody feels a sense of outrage at their moral failings.But with the Romans an extra level of disgust comes into play.
Looking at the Roman world forces us to think of whether progress and enlightment exist at all.
And there are some developments in ancient society which he notes but which now – 80 years after he wrote them – will resonate differently with the reader.
La vita quotidiana a Roma è un saggio storico che prendendo in esame la Roma imperiale del II secolo d.C. analizza ogni aspetto della vita nell'antichità in questa città, facendo anche confronti tra l'età regia, quella repubblicana e quella appunto imperiale.
Il saggio è ovviamente interessante e bello perché è il primo prodotto completo ed adatto al grande pubblico per conoscere bene ogni aspetto dell'esistenza degli antichi romani.
È anche vero che io ho l'edizione Laterza degli anni '90 e magari alcune cose sono state aggiornate nell'edizione recente.In ogni caso questo è un importante saggio storico e tantissime informazioni sono ancora validissime, quindi direi che per chi è interessato alla storia romana può leggerlo confrontandolo poi con testi più recenti e ne trarrà sicuramente beneficio.
On the upside: very good sleep remedy The author quotes extensively (though mostly from the more readable sources), and a number of his own descriptions are full of life.
Iit was enlightening to read about more or less ordinary roman life and quite a number of questions one asks when one sees ancient ruins (like ‘what was here?’, ‘why did they need so many Forums?’, etc.) were answered.
It tends to be rather flowery, so 'what was said' more than once evaded me in 'how it was said'.
Also, once having introduced the Latin name for a thing, the author tends to refer to it in Latin.
This is a very good book for learning about what life was like in the city of ancient Rome towards the end of the first century AD.
The book covers topics streets, houses, slavery, living conditions for the poor as well as the rich, the growing freedom of women, some professions, a typical dinner party, entertainment, clothing, the problems with education, and the weakening sense of religiosity.
I would have liked a greater discussion on marriage and the public baths but in a book such as this some topics will be covered in greater detail than others.
I bought this book during my visit to the Forum in Rome last year.
I love history, but I have always been more interested in the daily lifes of the people than in the dates of this or that battle.
And I wasn't disappointed by this book.
It explains the various aspects of a Roman's life in the days of the early emperors, from the housing situation over social classes, the family, education to entertainment.
But all in all, an enjoyable book for everyone interested in Ancient Rome.
It's a fairly entertaining book, though for all the wrong reasons. Carcopino makes sweeping declarations about things that don't seem to be supported, and has fairly quaint ideas - that Roman women stayed indoors and idle because they chose to do so, for example. His analysis of Roman religion is outdated. But the prose is that mid-century sort of magisterial tone, even when he's probably wrong, and so it was at least worth reading.
A dense and informative book: perfect for research. From the drawbacks and virtues of Ancient Roman housing, to its class systems and patronage traditions, this book will tell you much about the cultural life of Ancient Rome.Unfortunately, the prose which its been written in is also rather dry. Pour yourself a gallon of caffeine before wading through this bad boy: otherwise you're going to be taking an impromptu nap.
This was written when far less was known about his topic, so I'm looking forward to reading the updated version. I found it disconcerting that he used literary characters and the things that they did as evidence for actual occurrences in Roman life, such as Trimalchio's excesses. In fact, he didn't seem to realize that Trimalchio and others actually were literary figures and not real people.
Even though Daily Life in Ancient Rome was first published in English in 1940, it is still a valuable tool both for researchers and enthusiasts. Carcopino managed to unite into a single monograph the object of study of multiple disciplines and to amalgamate them into a compelling and vivid narrative.
when reading the book I felt like something blast me to the past.. being among the crowd of senates in the forum.. flying through Palatine hill to enjoy the panoramic, feels like doing spionage to see how Roman people was in the past.It is very detail and hope to see a documenter film based on this book. The letters type is small and too packed with words in a page.
This book made me want to watch the series Rome. Said to have influenced the stylings of that series and the film Gladiator, this book is a great look at the Roman area circa 100A.D. considered the golden years. Or more like before Constantine ruined it by declaring Christianity the national religion. I've seen Gladiator many times so now wouldn't mind how Rome portrays the same time period.
This book is intellectual in nature; those looking for a quick, entertaining read seem to discount the text for its in-depth and specific qualities. However, if you either understand the many references to Roman leaders and Gods, or Latin, or simply take the time to research further the points proposed by Carcopino, you will find the book supremely informative and an overall great read.
Ha rispettato in pieno le mie aspettative: una descrizione di ampio respiro ed interessante dello stile di vita dell'epoca. Usanze, circostanze, contesto. Unico difetto lo stile, veramente didascalico.
It does take some time to read through this book. It's very through about the history of how Romans lived their lives in the past. I would highly recommend it to those who are very intersted into history type reading.
Un classique : le style est beaucoup trop littéraire à mon goût. Les faits historiques sont étudiés dans le détail et sont intéressants mais on pourrait aller à l'essentiel sans se perdre dans des phrases alambiquées et parfois subjectives. Cela reste un livre très complet, mais un peu ancien.
Usually history books are not particularly funny, but this one, as it deals with the daily side of Romans, has some very funny parts. For that reason, in spite of the fact that it's a consistent book, it's fairly easy to read.
This book is interesting as the first "popular" book on daily life in rome. Unfortunately it is tainted by the author's biases towards the ideology of Mussolini and the fascists. Interesting for those interested in this book as literature rather than as a book about rome.
Dry, dated, but so filled with research and information that it the former two are almost forgivable. If you want an academic, in-depth account of Roman life, this is great. Otherwise, look for something lighter.
