https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/510011.Cherry_Ames_Student_Nurse
Not a fine form of literature, but an enjoyable and light-hearted tale of a young woman leaving a pampered life to become a nurse during WW2. She has a deep calling to be a nurse and to help others, and a natural outgoing nature that makes it easy for her to gain friends. I'll definitely be reading more in the series as I need something lighter to read.
If you are used to reading girls series like Nancy Drew, Cherry Ames is rather a switch.
When I finished those I re-read Hardy Boys, ran out of them and started collecting Nancy Drew.
Since I'm just getting to know Cherry Ames, how she handles the mistakes and how they work out are a surprise, drive the plot forward and keep my interest.
I find myself getting into the plot and not wanting to put it down at times, like when I hit the mystery in the story, I really should have been going back to bed, but I ended up finishing the book instead.
I still remember reading my first Cherry Ames book, Cherry Ames, Student Nurse.
I eventually read them all and joined her on her fabulous adventures as an Army nurse, a cruise ship nurse, boarding school nurse, etc.
Cherry had all sorts of adventures and was one of the first “modern” women who traveled on their own and didn't need anyone else to support her.
The first book in the Cherry Ames series follows Cherry as she leaves home and goes away to nursing school.
The friendships that Cherry forms in this book last throughout the entire series.
Cherry Ames is a bright, dark-haired, and cheery nurse as was my grandmother.Everyday that my grandmother, now a mother herself in post-war America, set out to volunteer at the Red Cross she left in a cape, and a hat not unlike Cherry's own that you see on the cover.
My mother, especially impressed with this dashing attire (I am too!) consequently loved the Cherry Ames books and admired my grandmother very much.Lots of unexpected things happen in this series but the one I liked most of all is when Cherry Ames accidentally happens upon the secret project of a doctor on staff at the hospital she works at.
I wanted to be Cherry Ames—headed off to nursing school on the train, all decked out in a red suit and ready to help people on a “grand and practical scale.” It still sounds pretty good to me.
Cherry’s experience feels a little bit less believable and it was very interesting to see how this series shamelessly borrowed details from the earlier Sue Barton books ( I had been told to watch for this and it really is amazing!)This was a 2-star book for me now, but since I loved it the first time I read it, I gave it a lifetime score of 3 stars.
I originally read this book kind of as a joke; I wanted to see how silly and antiquated it was.
And while the book was obviously written in a time when nursing was very different from what it is now, I found the book to be surprisingly charming.
I found the "old school" aspect of nursing interesting, and was pleased to be entertained through the whole book.
I often read YA fiction to find good books to share with my nieces and nephews, and while I loved this book, I worry that the charm may be lost on today's younger kids.
Perfection. It has just enough of vintage times, effort during the war, descriptions of the life and work as a student nurse... Everything I wanted, presented with charm and intrigue. I can't wait to get started on book #2.
Just re-read this- And I think Cherry and Nancy Drew would be good friends.
Read all of these as a young girl (12ish) and loved them. Similar to Nancy Drew but for a bit older girl. Very clean and written at a time when student nurses were boarded.
I felt like I was reading about my grandmother...which is a GREAT thing!
I love this book!!! This book is about a girl (Cherry Ames) who becomes a student nurse. This is a fantastic story! I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who loves a good read!
Betsy got me the 1942 edition of Cherry Ames, Student Nurse for Mother's Day. I've loved reading it and am surprised how much hasn't changed.
I think the public still has that image of nursing, but the profession has changed drastically in many ways.
We now see so many students who chose nursing because they are likely to have a job and not necessarily a profession.
On the other hand, students in Cherry's day assumed the responsibility of a licensed nurse.
But setting the philosophical aside, I hear Cherry falls for a doctor in every book.

I devoured these teen ‘career’ books in my teens.
There are 27 books in the Cherry Ames series and I did read all of them.
Cherry Ames, Student Nurse is the first book and we are introduced to Cherry and her friends.
The series was started in the early 1940s at the height of WWII and were originally designed to encourage girls to become nurses and join the war effort.
Each story has a set of challenges to conquer and a mystery to solve, in this book Cherry has to convince a grumpy head surgeon she is ok as a nurse and break the rules to save a life.
I read this at, maybe, 7 or 8, and adored it.
Of course it's very dated and was a piece of propaganda even at the time...
but it still retains a place in my heart.
(It was also responsible for my mother and I having our first feminism argument: she didn't want me to want to be a nurse, but a doctor.
I maintained that I wanted to take care of people, and nurses did that; doctors didn't.
I realized, later in life, that I lacked the calm and the strong feet for the job...
but that was the first of many arguments...)
This was probably three and a half stars for me because the first half of the book was really cute but in the second half Cherry developed what she thinks is a love interest, but it turns out not to be. Then they tried to add in a little mystery which was okay but I didn't feel it worked very well. I might try some of the others though.
A friend recently asked me what the nelliest book I read was when I was little. This surpasses little women, anne of green gables and literally anything else you can think of. Straight up straight fem propaganda.
My daughter & I picked up 3 Cherry Ames books from a Free Little Library in NC.
The first thing I noticed was that the book was an early edition and produced during wartime complying with the government standards for conservation of materials.
This tidbit sparked good discussion on it's own.
I enjoyed the book, very wholesome and appropriate for all ages.
We were amused by the conflict Cherry had with an older doctor that kept insisting she "take off that rogue" as it was not allowed in his hospital.
In the day of tattoos, facial piercings and colored hair it was a good reminder that "we've come a long way baby".
Cherry Ames wants to be a nurse, partly due to the influence of Dr. Joseph Fortune, the family friend who delivered her and her twin brother, Charlie.
But as she begins her training at Spencer School of Nursing she wonders if she is really cut out for nursing, especially when she encounters problems, or falls afoul of one of the doctors.
The girls in her class are a broad spectrum; however, except for a Chinese-American girl, they are all white, reflecting the period when this book was originally published (1944).
Despite this, and the changes in the nursing profession, this is still an interesting and enjoyable book, since people don't change.
I read almost all of the Cherry Ames books a lifetime ago, when I was a pre-teen.
Be warned that they are terribly sexist by today's standard, nevertheless, they feature a smart, determined, competent young woman (WWII era) who manages to overcome all manner of difficult, and often misogynistic situations!
Cherry Ames was, to little girls who might want a medical career, what Nancy Drew was to those who fancied a future as a sleuth!
I honestly don't remember if it was ever suggested in the series that Cherry, or any other woman could aspire to be a doctor, but I'm guessing not!
I enjoyed reading this book, it was about a girl getting her first chance to work in a hospital and learn to become a nurse.It tells how she uncovers a mystery that no one else seems care about. She does not want to break the rules, but wonders, just what is behind the locked door and why the red light blinks a lot without anyone else noticing it.
I probably would have given this 2 stars ,but I take into account that it was written in 1943 and meant to romanticize the nursing profession. It's so corny and overly sweet and perfect, but quaint at the same time. I've got the second book and if I wasn't committed to reading all the books in my library, I probably wouldn't...
Sweet read/ series. I got the series from my godmother when I was in grade school. Didn't start to read them until junior high. Very period, it talks about not being allow to wear makeup in nursing school (Cherry has cherry red cheeks and the teachers always thought it was rouge and were telling her to take it off) and never leave the house without your hat and gloves.
This is actually the first 4 books of the saga, a story of nursing the way it was then. It also gives a clear picture of daily life and the mindset of a nation at war and the very real Sacrifices ordinary people made.
A cute book. Very similar in style to the Bobsey twins, the Hardy Boys and Enid Blyton. I will read the rest of the series.
3.5
It took a bit of warming up to her, and she struck me as a Mary Sue, but it became a fun read.
Actually quite a bit better book than I had expected. It is very dated, being 75 years old, but still entertaining, and an interesting glimpse into the past.
I loved this book as a fourth grader and was excited to find it reissued. Is it dated? Yep, but I loved it anyway.
This book takes place during World War II in the United States.It gives a good picture about training for a nurse during that time.
