https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557184.Five_on_Kirrin_Island_Again
He also provides the mandatory "extra child" in the form of his son.It turns out that the baddies have parachuted on the island to overcome the impassable rocks.
For the rest of the series the rocks are eminently passable and fossil fuels are still used despite Uncle Quentin's discoveries...It's a Famous Five book so of course there have to be caves.
Anyway, the baddies are caught, the son turns out not to be and gets a chance at a new life where he can use his artistic talent, and all's well that ends well.What kind of scientist will Uncle Quentin be next?
4 stars 🌟 was a very good read just not as good as the previous books hence why it dropped a star.
Uncle Quentin you really are the most infuriating and grumpy old fart.
Timmy, clever boy you appear to have learnt how to understand the entire English language so stop faking it and say something other than woof!Aunt Fanny, if Uncle Quentin can't remember to eat when he's hungry I say tough!
Just make yourself a nice cuppa and sit in the larder eating all those spare cakes that seem to be hanging around in there all the time!George stop being a grumpus!Dick, don't let Julian take charge all of the time.Julian, stop patronising Anne, she'll turn one of these days.
Any book that simultaneously advocates developing an alternative fuel source (circa-1950) and suggests the necessary ingredients in the underground rescue of a 13 year old are shovels and brandy is ok in my opinion.
Onkel Quentin ist an einer grossen Erforschung, da lauern die Bösen natürlich nicht weit entfernt. Georgie plappert wie immer über sensible Sachen (sie hatte ja nicht schon vor ein paar Folgen dasselbe gemacht, Mädchen halt 😒) und ein Tunnel wird entdeckt, welcher vom Festland zur Felseninsel führt (sehr logisch). [22.08.2018]
This instalment in the Famous Five series seemed a little dull to me in comparison to the last two books, which were both pretty high on the excitement scale.Perhaps it was the fact that they were back on Kirrin Island for the third time...
or perhaps it was because not a lot really happened until the third act, when things did start to pick up.Don't get me wrong; I still enjoyed the book...
just nowhere near as much as the previous two.P.S.
- I'm not completely mad; I do realise I'm not the target audience for this book.
Selama percobaan,Ayah George akan tinggal sementara di pulau Kirrin dan tidak mau diganggu oleh siapa pun.
Untuk memastikan keadaannya ia aman-aman saja di pulau Kirrin,ia akan memberikan isyarat setiap jam setengah sebelas malam dan setengah sebelas pagi dari menara.Sementara itu ada pendatang baru di daerah tempat tinggal George,Pak Curton dan anaknya,Martin.
Rupanya ada mantan rekan kerja ayahnya yang ingin merebut formula percobaan dan membayar penjahat untuk merampas dari ayah George.
Mereka mengancam jika tidak diberikan akan meledakkan pulau Kirrin.George memberikan catatan tersebut ke Timmy yang langsung menghilang di goa bawah tanah puri pulau Kirrin.
I love this book and uncle Quentin acted really weird.
The kids are getting older, and there's still 15 books to go. Julian's gonna be 40 by book 21. Timmy and Dick are still my boy's favourites
Fun to read but not my favourite book in the series. I liked Timmy's judgment in this book and wondered why George couldn't use better judgment.
Quite a thrilling book!At the beginning I thought that Uncle Quentin was the main culprit but at the end was twist and two unknown people begam the main culprit, Peter and Johnson.Enjoyed it very much
Of course, George is furious, but Timmy is there to comfort her and make her feel better.The story progresses with the children returning from school to have their holidays at Kirrin cottage, and be in full view of the Island and their father/uncle.
Poor George suffers another blow, when her Father asks if Timmy can be left on the island with him as he suspects he's being watched!Although exciting, this isn't one of my favorite in the series, I think because by now Kirrin island has been the focus of other books and doesn't seem as exciting as somewhere new.
Well, with the mystery, sadly, I prefer the TV show over the book.The summary a goes like this.
And later they found out that they might not be the only ones on there.There's nothing happening in the beginning really, and when one of the antagonist came I could immediate sense it was him who was the villain...It did pick up later, but fell flat then once again...
I don't even know if younger me would enjoy this.And, don't know if it was me, but George annoyed me a little with her moaning about Her island at the beginning.
The writing is simple since it is a children's book.
George was furious when Uncle Quentin request to borrow her island, Kirrin from her for some sciencetific experiments. She reluctantly agreed and later, when arrived home, she found out that Uncle Quentin had added up a glass tower for his purpose of experiments. Adventure began when Uncle Quentin asked George to leave Timmy with him, since he felt that he was not alone in the island. Later, the adventure began and they surprised to find out that it all had to do with Uncle Quentin experiment.
These books (Famous five) are hands down one of my favorite books from my childhood. All those adventures and mystery …and those sandwiches they always packed! aww, just the best! I would love to read one of these again. To bring back those memories..memories of first experiences with reading books.
Loved by myself my children and Grandchildren. In fact loved by all children big or small.Pure nostalgia
One thing that confused me is why Alf became James here.
like the other Enid Blytons', the "ever be in my favorites memory since the very first i've finished reading it"
The last sentence of the book sounds like a definitive good bye, but fortunately she would change her mind and treat us to fifteen more Famous Five adventures.We start with a rare glimpse of the girls' life at boarding school.
How could she not?Speaking of the island, Uncle Quentin's science keeps being weird.
Also, maybe EB realized that she couldn't have Timmy announcing right at the beginning who is a good guy and who is a bad guy, not if she wanted some mystery.Dick did not trust Martin and his father and had a row with George because she told them too much.
1.uma tristeza afiadamassaja os corações dos rapazes.não porque Timmy desapareceu massimplesmentepor
Bagi saya, salah satu bagian novel yg cukup unik di novel ini adalah ketika paman Quentin memberikan sinyal pada anak2 bahwa ia baik2 saja tinggal di pulau dengan cara memancarkan sinar sebanyak enam kali tiap jam 11 siang dan jg 11 malam..
Suatu hari, paman Quentin mengirim sinyal sebanyak delapan belas kali dan ketika lima sekawan menjenguk paman Quention, ia berkata bahwa ia tidak merasa aman di pulau Kirrin krn sptnya ada yg sedang "memata-matainya" trus abis itu di novel ini si lima sekawan bertemu dgn anak yg sangat pemalu dan agak aneh bertingkah laku bernama Martin Curton..
I am keeping an open mind in that she is the youngest and siblings tease each other a lot, but something feels off.I also have some feelings about how kids who aren't the famous five are treated.
Edgar was called pathetic, but Nobby and (kid from this book) were considered pitiful/need a break.
Maybe because Edgar did make use of his situation and tease them like a lot?Also, Alf the fisherman's boy from previous books has been renamed to James.
Was super disconcerting for me, and I wondered if because it's a kid's book, they thought no one would notice.
Listening to these on audiobook for a change and a enjoying the stories a lot.These books are a little bit like the Redwall stories..
the author have found a working recipe and sees no reason to change it.Food- check, secret passages - check, bad guys - check.
George is really childish and Dick seems rather rude, and Alf has had a name change to James.But it doesn't really matter all that much in the end.Seems like "idiot" was the sweetest thing siblings could say to eachother those days.
Another outing of the Famous Five, this time leading back to Kirrin island and once again, an ludicrous plot is foiled by the gang of kids. It features the usual elements that make the book so exciting and comfortable. Secret tunnels, evil agents, a mysterious invention and struggles to come to terms with the family. The interplay between the kids is not as strong as in previous entries in the series and the "re-used" setting also makes this one of the weaker entries thus far (as compared to Five go off in a Caravan for example). Solid family fare.
My depression makes it hard for me to concentrate and I have a hard time reading things that forces me to reflect - I often feel like I fail to discover all the hidden layers. So when I found these old books about the Famous Five, I started reading immediately - partly because it brings back childhood memories, partly because they are so easy to read. I have to admit, despite being 25 years old I found this book pretty exciting and funny. My favorite character will always be George, since I can relate to her the most.
"What can Uncle Quentin be up to - all alone - on Kirrin Island. .."I absolutely adored Famous Five as a child. I trawled through secondhand stores and slowly acquired all of them. For some reason in my childhood, there were lots of British books and comics widely available and back then they were sold for the mighty sum of 10 cents. Seems funny now when some of the secondhand shops charge $7-10 per book! I still have all of them safely saved in storage for when Little Miss grows up.
Kali ini 5 sekawan kecewa tidak bisa berlibur di Pulau Kirrin, pulau kesukaan George dan pulau yang dianggap miliknya. Karena Paman Quentin mengirimkan surat kepada George untuk memakai pulau tersebut sebagai tempat penelitian nya.Namun ada hal aneh dimana lima sekawan tersebut tidak dapat menemukan keberadaan Paman Quentin, pulau tersebut banyak yang belum diketahui rahasia nya oleh Lima sekawan tampaknya.Petualangan kali ini lumayan tapi tidak seseru biasanya ^^
I loved the ending of this one so much. The perfect example of Timmy being such a sweet, loyal and clever dog. Otherwise the story did start of a bit dull, with Quentin being his typical self and everything streamlining very stereotypically. But it is a good adventure and the ending makes up for it by far.
Mình đọc bản tiếng Việt chứ kp bản tiếng anh đâuHuhu vẫn hay như ngày nào, k có lời nào để chê ngoài việc Nhã Nam mắc vài lỗi in nhỏ nhg vì mua đc e nó với giá hời nên thôi hài lòng bỏ qua :)) Vẫn luôn là no.1 truyện thiếu nhi trong lòng mình
If you have a book you're trying to force yourself to read, you're not going to like it so I stopped. I got to chapter 4 and had millions of other books I'd rather be reading. Maybe I'll try again but not now.
