https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/660252.Died_in_the_Wool
Died in the Wool is one of four Alleyn tales Marsh set in her native New Zealand, and is made even more interesting as it was actually published during the Second World War, and incorporates aspects, issues, and perspectives on the war climate into the murder mystery plotline.
Being written before Marsh would have even known when or how the war would end, some of the settings and characterisations can give insights into New Zealand at that time that no recently written historical novel, no matter how well researched, can match.One summer evening in 1942, formidable Member of Parliament Florence “Flossie” Rubrick goes to the wool shed on her high country property to rehearse a patriotic speech, and disappears.
Unusual setting.The action takes place in New Zealand in the war so a classic murder story is set away from a British location with the addition of espionage to add to the interest . The author writes well as she should about her home country and draws the characters interestingly and differently from what might be expected in a classic murder mystery. It’s thoroughly enjoyable with plenty of twists and turns so the murderer only becomes guessable towards the end.
I find I really like the New Zealand ones in this series.
This one is also set in NZ, during WWII.Alleyn's essentially counter-intelligence, investigating a potential information leak (and associated murder) on a New Zealand sheep farm.I like the reduced cast of characters.
I like the setting.
And it struck me in this one that I definitely have a better sense of Alleyn as a character now.
I will only say that it probably happened a few books ago, and I didn't notice until now, but I definitely have a better sense than in the early novels.Also, no case of insta-love.
Detective Chief Inspector Roderick Alleyn, in New Zealand during World War II to track down spies, both from outside and from within, travels to the countryside where ranchers keep sheep to investigate a year-old murder and potential espionage in Ngaio Marsh's Died in the Wool.
Flossy Rubrick, a member of the New Zealand Parliament, disappeared a year earlier, only to be found rolled up in a bale of hay five weeks later.
Alleyn does not serve in his regular role as homicide detective during the war.
While I liked the New Zealand setting, this entry in the Inspector Alleyn series was not one of Marsh's better efforts.
Add to this that the killer was predictable from the outset and the ending was ALSO pure tell-not-show (epistolary ending, no less!) and you have the reason I shelved this as "stonking great disappointment." Marsh's penchant for dividing each chapter into several numbered parts, as if it were a TV drama with commercial cues at all tense points (though yes I know TV hadn't taken off yet, that's how it felt) did not help matters.I wanted to enjoy this book, but it simply wasn't possible.
First half almost unbearably talky. Second half picked up. Like the previous installment set in New Zealand, interesting for the setting, but I miss London and Inspector Fox as much as Alleyn does. May the war be over soon and Alleyn back to his usual haunts.
Has the most insidious manner of hiding the body of any mystery I've ever read.
This is the most interesting INspector Alleyn story I have read so far.
Set on a sheep station in New Zealand in WW2, it concerns the murder of the sheep station owner's wife.
A very strong minded, ambitious MP, she is found dead inside a bale of wool.
inspector Alleyn, who happens to be in New Zealand doing espionage work, comes to stay on the sheep station and unraveling the mystery.
there are some interesting characters and some lovely descriptions of the New Zealand scenery.
however, it was fairly easy to work out who the murderer was, and the motive, which is always slightly disappointing.
Not one of my favourite Inspector Alleyn whodunnits. A nice New Zealand high country setting, and an inventive murder, but Alleyn, arriving long after the event, and concerned with war-time treason as well as murder, has to recover past events by a round-table recounting of the past by the inhabitants of the farm estate. Rather static. No Troy, no Inspector Fox.GR blurb:One summer evening in 1942, Flossie Rubrick, goes to her husband's wool shed to rehearse a patriotic speech - and disappears. Three weeks later she turns up at an auction, packed inside a bale of wool.
I'm pretty sure this is my first Roderick Alleyn, so perhaps not the right place to start! but, it actually functions just fine as a standalone, since it seems like the characters I would otherwise be expected to be familiar with are not present in this mystery (aside from Alleyn), which is set in New Zealand. it's fascinating that this was written during the war, with Marsh not knowing how it would all end. the way the victim's body was hidden seemed exceptionally gruesome for some reason.
The story takes place on an isolated South Island sheep station, apparently near Canterbury (though the book never makes the location clear).
Marsh has by now developed as a writer, so that her characters do not seem to be similar to those in previous books.
Because this takes place in New Zealand, he is missing his usual team (especially "Br'er Fox"), so one loses the engaging by-play usually seen with his normal group.For the first time, I did guess "who did it." though I was hardly sure until the book confirmed it.
Serial fiction written during The War is often more interesting as social document than as fiction.
This episode of Marsh's series has a few things going for it, though.
It's always kind of fun when she gets to actually bring her show to New Zealand, and the intense remoteness of the sheep-station setting helps her keep tight control over a short list of suspects.
Plus, this is a novel with a very lively corpse -- she's dead for the bulk of the book, but the late departed is a real larger-than-life personality.
The dismount feels a bit arbitrary, though, and of course one misses Foxkins.
Alleyn is there on a case of espionage, so when one of the members of the Rubrick 'family' asks for help, he is sent.
Florence's husband Arthur has also died, not long after her discovery, from a heart ailment, and the young people are running things at Mount Moon with the help of the sheep men and the household servants.
The story moves slowly at the beginning, when the young people are giving their descriptions of Florence, but eventually picks up speed and becomes more interesting (and a little confusing!) There are some lovely descriptions of New Zealand.
Ngaio Marsh is always hard to pin down for me.
She has flashes of brilliance, but most of her books are a bit plodding.
Died in the Wool was one of those books that plod, not unpleasantly, towards an interesting end, with flashes of brilliance.
Died in wool is one of those books where half the book is interviews, and the other half is action, and quite honestly, the interview was interesting, but I had to push myself through the action until the very end where Alleyn is lying in the wool shed in wait for the murderer.
#13 in the suave and debonair, Scotland Yard Superintendent Roderick Alleyn mystery series. Alleyn is detached, sophisticated and expensively educated. WWII New Zealand where Allyen is helping the government investigate possible espionage. Summer,1942, Flossie Rubrick disappears. Three weeks later she is found packed inside one of her own bales of wool. A year later, Allyen goes to the remote sheep ranch to investigate the murder and possible case of espionage regarding two men working on a top-secret device for the military. Main suspect revolve around the 4 main characters who all have strong ties to Flossie.

I really liked this Inspector Alleyn story, even sans his usual crew. He was not in his usual police role since he was tasked with ferreting out a 'spanner in the works' in the guise of a war enemy/traitor giving away secrets to the Nazis. However, in the process, he solved a 15 month old muder. It was a riveting tale, complete with additional insight into Alleyn's character. And he really likes his wife, which appealed to me.
The writing is so delightfully witty that I think I missed a good portion of it by listening to the audiobook. The book, strangely, is 90% dialogue, like a play, which makes it a bit slow at times (no action, only re-telling) but the characters are great and the British cleverness is on point. Would read another in the series, but not listen.
This is such a good book; not just the plot and detailed characterisation (which Ngaio Marsh always does so well), but also the vivid picture she paints of New Zealand high country life and society before WW2 and the way in which she places the reader in the midst of this strange and spellbinding land. I have read all her books and would rate this as one of her best
A little on the slow side, but not so much that your attention wanes. This is a very clever novel with some very witty bits and probably one of the most unique ways to dispose of a corpse that I've ever heard of!
Classic crime story. Easy to read but also easy to guess whodunit unfortunately.
3.5 stars. Liked the NZ setting, and as usual appreciate Marsh's writing, but found the mystery a bit more predictable than usual.
WWII, German spy in New Zealand, no really interesting love story. It was a bit slow and boring
Eh, my brain kept wandering while listening to this on audio, and I had to keep rewinding. Not bad, but not great. I think three Marsh books are enough for now.
My first Ngaio Marsh mystery that I read for my Detective Fiction class at University of Waterloo in 2004 - the beginning of many a satisfying read! She is one of my top mystery writers!
Excellent Inspector Alleyn mystery!
Another compelling Marsh mystery. I’m loving this Roderick Alleyn series.
In New Zealand during WWII, Inspector Alleyn solves the murder and the espionage after a woman is crushed in a wool press - ick!
There is some suggestion that details of their plans have been leaked, this sort of investigation fits Alleyn’s brief in New Zealand, and so he is justified in investigating Florence’s murder while looking into the possible leaking of wartime secrets.Alleyn who is now married to Agatha Troy – the artist who appears in several earlier Ngaio Marsh novels – is very much on his own in the novel, his faithful inspector Fox is also back in England, Alleyn misses the presence of these two key people, and I must say – so did I.
