https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15760001-on-dublin-street
I refuse to give more than one star to a book that uses "My look castigated" as a fucking dialogue tag, or that uses "Saturday's" as the plural for Saturday, or that neglects the use of commas like they're just "special gifts" we give out every once in a while.
They do the same goddamn thing!Joss makes a good decision when she starts going to therapy, but the therapy sessions annoyed me because it read like Young pulled every aspect of it from what she's seen on TV.
If Braden could push it that far, I bet he would like to be the only one who knows how gorgeous Joss is, PERIOD.
“Gentlemen are gentlemen in bed. They make sure you’re having a good time.”“I’ll make sure you’re having a good time, and that you’re okay with everything we’re doing. I just won’t be well-mannered about it.”  My brain is in shock by the pure awesomeness of this book and characters. I really wish I knew all the English words for something amazing, I'd put them here, really. It had me hooked from the first page, in love with Braden some 20 pages after that, getting a few cold showers in the midd
It had me hooked from the first page, in love with Braden some 20 pages after that, getting a few cold showers in the middle, and crying my eyes out at the end.So here's to the author:The story is about Jocelyn, a young woman who lost her parents and baby sister when she was 14, and who still has trust issues with everyone she knows.
What she doesn't know is that The Suit (the mysterious freaking hot sex on legs oozing hotness man) is Ellie's brother (those coincidences, just love them 
No sexx0ring with this stud for me.Hero: *constantly offers Cock of Healing™*Endless Supporting Cast of "I-Don't-Give-A-Fuck!" Doom: We might just be names on paper with no personalities whatsoever, but we're adorably quirky with interesting personal lives!
Problems....I haz 'em.Hero: I want to fuck you inside you.
Cock fuck inside wet come.Heroine: *creams self* CURSE MY PROBLEMS AND UNWILLINGNESS TO COMMIT!Author: I guess I'd better wrap this up soon.
A medical emergency creates last minute conflict and quick resolution!Readers: So.....beautiful.....Bank Account: *ka-ching!*Granted I don't read much erotic contemporary, but this one read so much like smutty fanfiction.
This book has ruined me for others...I haven't been able to read anything since. Until then...Braden... Well, what can I say that hasn't already been said? There's over 1,500!! reviews for this book, the author has just signed a 7-figure, 2 paperback book deal with a major publisher, sold 150,000 downloads of this self-published book in one month, and I'll bet movie rights might be next. So I doubt my little review will make much difference in its success...but I'll add my 2-cents anyway. I love
The story is told in 1st person (not my favorite, but it worked) from the heroine's (Joss/Jocelyn Butler) POV (sure wished we could hear from the hero, though).
The story starts with her moving into a beautifully renovated apartment (on Dublin Street) that she will be sharing with a friendly young blonde (Ellie Carmichael) who is working on her PhD.
Ellie has a half-brother, Braden (a very successful, sexy real estate developer), who is very devoted to her (I loved their brother-sister relationship).
I can honestly say that Braden Carmichael is one of my all-time-favorite romance heroes, and that this book, On Dublin Street, is one of the best books I've read in 2012.
2.5 starsIT'S NOT YOU, IT'S ME....REALLY!
5 stars! On Dublin Street is one of my favorite books. I’ve been meaning to re-read it for the longest time, so when a friend told me how incredible the audio version was, I made time to squeeze it in straight away. I’m so glad I did. This is one of those books that was even better the second time around.Braden Carmichael is one of the very first book boyfriends I ever claimed as my own. In my original short review, I referred to him as my ‘new literary love’. He is just so damn perfect! I could
On Dublin Street is one of my favorite books.
This is one of those books that was even better the second time around.Braden Carmichael is one of the very first book boyfriends I ever claimed as my own.
I love seeing her open up to not only Braden, but Elle as well.
This book is wonderful.
Braden and Joss together..
If you haven’t read this book, I have to insist you pick it up right away.
And if you like audio books, I can’t recommend this one enough.
Meet Braden Carmichael, fall in love with him, and thank me later ;)
Adam was acting like a caveman which was really funny and Ellie was the most adorable person in the book!If I continue reading this series , I'll only read their story.Last but not least , the biggest WTF moment EVER.In that chapter Braden was teasing Joss by tickling her.Things got out of control and he tickled her more than he should.I'll blame my bad english in this point.
Most of my jumbled emotions were due to the heroine, Jocelyn, and her understandable yet exasperating behavior.
I found it difficult to like or even admire her character because of the way she treated those who cared so deeply for her.
The secondary characters were delightful and gave this book, in my opinion, its heart and soul.
If only everyone could be so fortunate to have a friend like her.On Dublin Street is an emotional, angsty, passionate, sexy, and captivating read.
Although I struggled deeply with Jocelyn's attitude and behavior, I truly loved so much about this book.
3 Emotionally Unavailable Stars  Lots of Spoilers I was really looking forward to reading On Dublin Street. There were so many amazing reviews on this book. 5 stars here, there, and everywhere. so I just knew I was going to love this book. Then I read it and I wanted to choke the life out of the heroine Joss. Jocelyn Butler aka Joss just about ruined this book for me with her emotional constipation. Don't get me wrong she had a lot of bad things happen to her. Her parents, little sister and best
3 Emotionally Unavailable Stars
Then I read it and I wanted to choke the life out of the heroine Joss.
Jocelyn Butler aka Joss just about ruined this book for me with her emotional constipation.
Joss came off in this book as a cold bitch.
Other than the fact that she hurt Braden and Ellie over and over again with her cowardly ways and coldness.
Braden was sexy and I loved his single minded pursuit of Joss.
So while I really liked the hero and his sister and I enjoyed parts of this book Joss really brought this read down for me.
My thought process in stages as I was reading this book : Starts out strong...okay, this is interesting...nice, he's pretty smokin' in that alpha male kind of way...hell yeah, this is some hot sex...wow, I like how this story has different layers to it...hold up, he did not just - SIGH...and I think I'm going to start skimming now...okay, the end was sweet.3.5 stars I'm sure people will be surprised that I even went as high as I did because there were a few things in this book that would normal
Starts out strong...okay, this is interesting...nice, he's pretty smokin' in that alpha male kind of way...hell yeah, this is some hot sex...wow, I like how this story has different layers to it...hold up, he did not just - SIGH...and I think I'm going to start skimming now...okay, the end was sweet.3.5 stars I'm sure people will be surprised that I even went as high as I did because there were a few things in this book that would normally set me off into the danger zone.
I fell hook, line and sinker for him – from the first moment that he crouched down in front of Jocelyn when she suffered a panic attack at a family dinner and just stared deep into her eyes, brow etched with concern and quietly asked ‘Better?’ without prying or pushing or judging all the way to the incredibly passionate sex scenes, I was his and he was mine!Oh sure, he’s not without fault – he’s arrogant, possessive as hell, has severe caveman tendencies and is very bossy but all this just makes me love him more.
Jesus C!Braden Carmichael has got to be one of the hottest book boys I've read since Kellan Kyle AND Christian Grey.
Braden Carmichael had my "knickers" in a twist from the moment his sexy Scottish accent entered my life...
Joss needs to find a new place and as luck would have it, she answers an ad for a place on Dublin Street which brings her to Ellie.
Maybe it's the way she looks or talks that fools people into thinking Ellie's fragile.
The big 5 publishers, suffering greatly from the rise of the e-book and seeing their importance in the industry diminish, are scrambling to survive and throwing big advances at self-published big sellers as if it’s going out of business, and one of the biggest books to profit from this has been Scottish author Samantha Young and her Edinburgh set contemporary romance “On Dublin Street”.
If it’s being sold and marketed as a novel, I expect it to meet the simplest of standards, particularly now that a big publisher has showered this with money and doesn’t seem to care about the quality.
Especially seeing as she’s his sister’s newest roommate.And despite the newest, gold-digging model of a girlfriend on his arm;Despite the fact that he’s a business mogul with a thousand other things to do;And despite the fact that Jocelyn seems to want completely nothing to do with him;He wants her and her heart that’s trapped between mile-high granite walls and her slow smiles.
And then the unpredictable happens.During the three months, Jocelyn finds herself falling for Braden.
It happens without her knowing.It happens during those lightning smiles, between the merciless laughing and teasing, behind the first time he holds her hand.Jocelyn finds that Braden is taking down all her walls faster than she can rebuild them.
Every time Jocelyn runs, Braden will catch her.
At first, there is just a long period of flirty banter but Joss resists quite a lot, until finally they come to a friends-with-benefits arrangement that Braden agrees to, but really is just using it to try and convince her to be in a relationship with him.
But eventually, her inability to admit she had feelings for Braden despite her CLEARLY having them brought the story down for me and there wasn't enough time of the book dedicated to her and Braden being in a functional relationship after she finally was through them.If you are ok with reading through stupidity from the heroine, you'll probably love this book, but I think part of what annoyed me was I went into it expecting them to have fallen into a bit of a functional relationship for at least part of the book.
While trying to restart her life, Joss is ignoring her past on purpose and doesn't face her demons, something that makes her struggle in her present life, trying not to get attached to people around her in fear of also losing them.
With Ellie, her new roomate and Braden Carmichael, who's pursuing her relentlessly, she will need to face her demons sooner or later if she wants a future with them in her life.
She's good at pushing people away, so why is it hard with them?
I'm still in a book hangover after meeting Braden.
I went into this book with absolutely no expectations, not a single one, I just wanted to read a book, any book.
I didn't expect awesome on a stick (a really hot stick named Braden).
Then all of the sudden the gigantic hand of awesome came out of the book, grabbed me, and didn't let go!!
Not to mention the hand of awesome knew exactly what it was doing.It was one of those books that just kept getting better and better.
This book gave me everything I needed and more.
More time with Braden and Joss...more Els and Adam...more epilogue...MORE!!!
I wanted to shake Joss at times, and tell her to let go and just trust Braden.
When circumstances require her to move and find a new roommate, she finds a beautiful place on Dublin Street and a great roommate named Ellie.Braden and Joss first meet when sharing a taxi cab, and then later she realizes the hot guy is her roommates older brother.
The attraction between Braden and Joss continues to grow, and soon she learns he has broken it off with his girlfriend.Braden is one of the BEST romantic heroes I have read in a long, long time!
I am in LOVE with Braden Carmichael, my bags are packed and I'm moving to Dublin Street!Aside from some repetitiveness with Jocelyn's dialogue, it was almost the perfect book!
Then the author brings us right into a heartbreaking moment, one second your laughing, then your heart is pounding...the author knows how to toy with the readers emotions.
For a character who initially came off as an egotistical ass, Braden was amazing, caring and loving...what a man.
There was also a lovely secondary romance with Braden's sister, Ellie, who was also Jocelyn's roommate.
5!!!! 5 estrellas!!!!!!!!!Por el enganche total desde el minuto uno!!!!Porque pasa en Edimburgo!!!! Y como adoro yo Edimburgo...Por Braden!!!!!! Quiero que sea mi hermano!! O mi amigo!!! O mi jefe!!! El casero para ponerme esa casa!!!!!! QUIERO QUE SEA MI AMANTE!!!!!Por Joss!!! Bravo por las mujeres con carácter!!! Bravo por ese paseo del baño a la habitación!!!Y por Ellie, porque es AMOR.No he podido evitarlo... Reseña en el BLOG!!!! http://unablogueraeventual.com/calle-...Yo a este libro recurro siempre que estoy OFF. Me gustaaaa.
5 shiny stars!! I finished this book a couple of days ago, and it has been with me in the back of my mind ever since. I wanted to take the time to ponder what this story meant to me, because I gotta tell you...I was on an emotional roller-coaster while reading it! The characters were..well...AMAZING!  The author introduces us to Jocelyn at the young age of 14. Everything is 'perfect' in her life. She has loving parents and a beautiful little sister whom she adores, then suddenly tragedy strikes,
Ellie starts including Jocelyn in family gatherings, and outings with friends.
Ellie also has a wonderfully attractive, domineering, successful businessman, and über-alpha brother who has set his eye on Jocelyn and the chemistry between them is NOVA.This is how I pictured Braedon
This seems like the perfect solution for Jocelyn.Gradually the 'just sex' relationship turns into spooning, sleeping all night together, and Jocelyn attending social functions with Braedon.
Their journey is so wonderful to read, and it's such a great story of healing, forgiveness and love.Braedon and Jocelyn are now two of my favorite fictional couples.
Reconozco que este libro es vicio en estado puro, que te atrapa como pocas novelas, pero, y malditos peros, también que Braden se pasa de macho alfa. En serio, hay momentos en que suspiras por no gritar de pura frustración! E indignación!
2.5 STARSThis book made me create new shelves, named 'are you fucking kidding me?' and 'disappointments'.After finishing On Dublin Street, i have to ask you guys a question. What the heck is all the hype about? To all the fans of this book, i'm glad you enjoyed it.  Meet Jocelyn... Who is she?A 20 something year old woman who is afraid of people. Of letting them in and getting attached to them. She likes being alone because no one asks her personal questions she doesn't want to answer. She doesn
2.5 STARSThis book made me create new shelves, named 'are you fucking kidding me?' and 'disappointments'.After finishing On Dublin Street, i have to ask you guys a question.
But when she meets a gorgeous man named Braden, and he proposes an offer of a non emotional sex only relationship, what does she do?
Read that shit about a million times already), and -like he said- even though he has a girlfriend he's not blind and can recognize a sexy and beautiful woman.
However, there were some things i really liked and that made the book an OK read.
5 DELICIOUS BRADEN STARS  "I can't get the thought of you beneath me, and that hair spread out across my pillow while I move inside you, out of my head." Oh. God. "But I think mostly it's your eyes. I want something from them no one else gets from them." "And what's that?" I asked, my voice low, almost hoarse. His words had affected me as deeply as any aphrodisiac."Soft." His own voice had deepened with the highly sexual atmosphere. "Soft the way only a woman's can be after she's come for me."
Jocelyn aka Joss has had a very hard childhood, she lost her parents and sister in a tragic car wreck when she was fourteen.
Going through a bit of a life change Joss has to find a new place to live and while looking for that place, as fate would have it, has a run in with Braden.
"God Braden...." I breathed without thinking."I can't wait to hear you say that while I'm inside you.
The sexual tension and chemistry between Joss and Braden is electric and palpable!!
I also loved the continual back and forth banter between them, I found it to be endearing, sweet and actually extremely funny.
Reto #16 PopSugar 2018: Un libro acerca de una enfermedad o trastorno mental Una novela que entretiene, que se lee de un tirón, pero muy pobre argumentalmente. Absolutamente todo se centra en la pareja principal y su círculo de amigos/familiares: que si van a cenar allá, que si van a tomar unas copas por acá, que si se provocan celos, si se ponen ese vestido o el otro, ufff... Entre medio trabajan “en algo” y tienen sexo, tratando de convencerse que es solo sexo. Incluso la situación que genera
Incluso la situación que genera más conflicto hacia el final, está servida para desencadenar más de lo mismo.Salvo Braden, todos los demás personajes son absolutamente anodinos, incluida Jocelyn, con su problema psicológico y ataques de pánico que, al menos a mí, como personaje, no me llegó ni me convenció.
Por el contrario, Braden es un personaje fuerte, cuya personalidad (y una buena dosis de paciencia e inteligencia) es la que permite romper la coraza de una obstinada e irritante Jocelyn.No sé, he leído y me han gustado otras novelas del género que tampoco abarcan más que el avance de la relación de la pareja protagonista, pero mejor escritas y más consistentes.
And in just that one moment,her entire world crumbled.....Eight years later---(Scotland)Joss Butler(Jocelyn),is an emotionally closed off woman.No one,NO ONE,is allowed inside the huge walls she has erected around herself.Even her best friend Rhian does not know anything about her.She is calm,cool,collected and very rational.If she does not let anyone come close to her,then she’ll never have to fear losing them.She will be safe.She has been safe for all these years...DUBLIN STREET---She is an aspiring writer.She needs a good place to live.She has been searching for quite a long time,but nothing meets her expectations.She has this last place to check on Dublin Street....On her way she meets Mr. Suit(they were heading the same way and both hailed the same cab.And no,that is not his name.She called him that because of his super-expensive suit).
At dinner Braden says things like:“You’re sexy as fuck.”7.
Braden is intense….“Do you know what it’s been like for me since that day in the flat?
Two: it’s just sleeping, Jocelyn.”I ignored the bed comment since it was true.
We fuck, we have fun, you go home, That’s the deal!”He studied me intently for a moment and then lowered his head until his lips were almost touching mine.
I don’t go home because sometimes in the middle of the night I wake up, and when I wake up, I want to fuck.
It’s what I like to call a “crack” book.
There was just so much about this book that I loved – it’s funny, romantic, swoony and sexy, it’s got drama, and there is a sensational cast of characters.
I highly recommend this book to anybody who loves a great romantic story.
5 awesome stars!* * * * * * * * * * * * * * *Bonus scenes:Three pivotal little scenes from the sensational On Dublin Street, straight from the head of the Fuckhot Scot himself - Braden Carmichael.OMG, if there's anything better than reading about the man, it's reading his POV.This little collection of awesome contains:- The (Naked) Second Meeting- The First Kiss- For Ellie and JocelynGorgeous, arrogant, sexy and in love.
The man is perfect, and these scenes are a must read for any Braden fan.
OH MY GOODNESS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! It's that good.
There are so many things Amazing about this book making it a winner for me. A few of my thoughts...• It has a conclusive, happy ending!! Yay!! There are no cliffhangers that left me gasping and somewhat annoyed waiting around to find out more. I’m getting somewhat tired of the “installment” reads and find myself searching for those with closure. It is a beautiful, passionate, emotional and totally sexy Contemporary with the heroine suffering severe trust and commitment issues; and rightly so fro
I’m getting somewhat tired of the “installment” reads and find myself searching for those with closure.
It is a beautiful, passionate, emotional and totally sexy Contemporary with the heroine suffering severe trust and commitment issues; and rightly so from the loss and trauma she endured as a teenager.•	She is seeing a therapist!
There's also a secondary love story going on between Ellie and Braden's best friend, Adam.
It is a poignant love story that is arousing, exciting, passionate, tender, and sexy.
Jocelyn's story reminded me to cherish those I love and live each day to the fullest.
