https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92367.Whiteout
Oh for heaven's sake, Follett.
Just because as a sixty-ish man you wish that a hot 38-year-old redhead would find you irresistible does not mean you have to bake this into a novel in such a thinly veiled fashion.
And P.S., the book was actually going pretty well until said 38-year-old hugged the handsome sixty-ish man and felt——AHEM——wetness in her underthings.
I beg your pardon?
Way to ruin an otherwise almost-convincing romantic moment.
Also Mr. Follett, you don't actually have to wrap up EVERY SINGLE LOOSE END when you conclude the book, like a child's chapter book.
Ο ήρωας μας Στάνλεϋ Όξενφορντ, έχει μια μικρή φαρμακευτική εταιρεία που κάνει έρευνες γύρω από θανατηφόρους ιούς.
Αντί να κάτσουν να χαλαρώσουν απολαμβάνοντας το χιόνι, παίζοντας FIFA και βγάζοντας χνουδάκια από τον αφαλό τους, τρώγονται για τα πάντα, όλη την ώρα.
Δε φτάνει που η συμπεριφορά της οικογένειας θυμίζει τη σειρά -Χτυποκάρδια στο Μπέβερλι Χιλς- όπου ο ένας έχει απαυτώσει τον άλλον, αλλά ο Κιτ (ο γιός) σχεδιάζει να κλέψει μαζί με δυο μαφιόζους ένα νέο φάρμακο που αναπτύσσει η εταιρεία του πατέρα του, με σκοπό να το πουλήσει ώστε να ξεχρεώσει από τα χρέη του blackjack.
De resto, achei bastante básico.
Um thriller pouco emocionante, com umas intrigas amorosas à mistura, incluindo um casal de adolescentes (!) que acaba por ter alguma influência no desenlace.Gostei da personagem principal, Toni Gallo.E pronto, cumpriu e ficou por aí.A nice and quick read, which was what I was looking for.Otherwise, I found it pretty basic.
A not so thrilling thriller, with some love intrigue in the mix, including a teenage couple (!) that ends up having a somewhat relevant role in the outcome.I liked the main character, Toni Gallo.So, it did its job and that's that.
While the former fixes its attention almost solely on the pathogen, even idolizing it at times, the latter sculpts its drama around the many characters tangled up in the threatening peril of a diffuse outbreak.Renowned Scottish pharmaceutical Oxenford Medical specializes in lab-based research on some of nature's deadliest viruses.
As the holidays descend upon snow-covered Scotland, the Oxenfords gather at Steepfall, the family estate, only to find themselves key players in thwarting an international crisis.The number of characters introduced as the plot takes shape can feel like a flood, but Follett has the knack for bringing the reader up to speed with well-placed summaries of how each character factors into the immediate scene and reminders of earlier details.
Invariavelmente BomUm livro que foge ao estilo habitual de Ken Follet, mas que é invariavelmente bom. :)Uma prova do alcance da mestria do autor!Ken Follet persiste em não desiludir :)
I decided to sample another work from the author of one of my favorite books, The Pillars of the Earth.
It's the sort of thing that might have been written by any of a sheaf of modern authors like Michael Crichton, Patricia Cornwell or James Patterson and probably would have been better done.
A third into the novel, I didn't identify with or care about any of the characters.
There was a minor dramatic event that wrapped up rather completely except for some upcoming bad press for our main characters.
I was surprised to see a novel by an experienced pro that had such terrible stretches of writing in it.
Would not have finished if it hadn't been a club selection.
Got better nearer the end, where the action picks up.
So where was the editor?
Is Follett so big that they can't tell him when something is clunky and amateurish?
Awkward info dumps, cardboard characters, and too much that is thrown in to see what sticks.
Way too many superfluous beatings, errors, and convenient plot devices.
"Aw, they'll buy it anyway, because it's a Follett!" News flash-- we expect better!
This was a suspenseful, edge of your seat kind of read.
I loved it.
When she discovers 2 doses of an experimental drug missing, she has no idea that this is a prelude to an even more dangerous plot to rob the company.
Christmas Eve brings many surprises including a blizzard that makes the plot even more dangerous.
I am wondering if it’s because it’s different from the other books Follet has written, so different, fans were not expecting what they got.
This was the first Follet I have read and I loved it.
Whiteout is one of those novels that you can read in a matter of hours. It has a fast rhythm and although sometimes these books have a very obvious structure, Ken Follen hides it with the finesse of a master couturier.Spanish version: En blanco es de esas novelas que puedes leer en cuestión de horas. Su ritmo trepidante te engancha casi a la primera página, y aunque a veces este tipo de libros tengan estructuras tan pautadas, Ken Follen las esconde con la finura de un maestro costurero.


https://www.instagram.com/p/BCTcSIgRt...
Part biological thriller, part soap opera, this thriller is filled with chilling grit as one family’s drama plays out and unlikely heroes step up.I was completely captivated with the theft of a potential biological weapon, but found the family soap opera portion to be a bit distracting as dirty little secrets are revealed and the perfect family’s façade is cracked.
Lots of drama, lots of bad blood and some clichéd bad guys whip this thriller into a froth of bloody terror.This may not be one of my favorite Ken Follett novels, but it does have some chilling twists!Publisher: Penguin Books (November 23, 2004)Publication Date: November 23, 2004Genre: Thriller | SuspensePrint Length: 374 pagesAvailable from: Amazon | Barnes & NobleFor Reviews, Giveaways, Fabulous Book News, follow: http://tometender.blogspot.com
I read this while on holiday in the tropical Bay of Islands and it was the perfect read.
The pace picked up half way through, with each character's motivation and decision-making being clear and believable.
I note some people found this book contrived and one described the characters as cardboard, yet it delivered what it set out to achieve.
anyway, I digress) dramatic tension and good vs bad.The reason I read Ken's books is because they are so easy to read.
He unfolds complicated plots in a simple way and does all the work so the reader doesn't have to.
Um enredo fascinante e diferente do habitual ao autor. Aconselho vivamente
Em 24 horas, a corajosa Toni Gallo lida com um possível fracasso profissional e uma possível desilusão amorosa, mantendo-se, no entanto, sempre no seu melhor tanto no trabalho como na vida pessoal.Kit Oxenford é, inicialmente, o grande vilão da história mas, no final, não consegui deixar de ter pena dele porque ele olhava à sua volta e parecia que não tinha mais razão para viver, porque a família o iria odiar, a polícia andaria atrás dele, tudo parecia correr mal.
Um pequeno gesto trouxe-o de volta à realidade e à família, que o apoiou mesmo depois deste ter cometido tamanha traição.Bem, veremos qual será o próximo livro de Ken Follett que me vai deixar tão deliciada como este!
2. The completely believable heroine of the day, Toni, trained in engineering, decides to be a police officer, shamed off the job, now a security director for a lab that holds aforementioned bloody virus (and a cure.
3. Creepy sub-plot of two teenagers trying desperately to get it on when they witness their respective families being terrorized by thugs / virus-thieves.
4. Oh, and let's not forget that you get through the entire blizzardy mess to find out the dastardly virus-spreader villain is someone we haven't met and is mentioned twice the entire book.
It's Christmas eve, and Stanly Oxenford is dangerously close to losing his facility thanks to a heartfelt technician bringing home one of the test animals, and trying to cure it.
and thanks to his debt, if he loses the Kremlin, he loses everything he owns.
i wouldn't recommend to anyone who doesn't like gore, as usual accordance with his books, or anyone who's a little too attached to the events of a story, and might think it possible for someone to achieve.
just when you think the twists are over, he'll throw you into a tailspin, so set aside a good length of time and hold on, this is one you will not want to put down!
When the said technician is finally found at his house, he is bleeding from every pore -- he has been infected with the virus and Stanley Oxenford, owner of the research facility and developer of the drug, is in danger of losing everything he has worked in.
He thinks their aim is to steal the anti-viral drug, but after breaking in into Oxenford Medical, Kit realizes that the truth is worst than he thought: they are actually stealing the virus.
Things can only go very wrong, but Toni is decided to prove herself worthy and is willing to do anything to catch the criminals.Whiteout is certainly a very good thriller.
And that's probably what I like the most, the way Ken Follett is able to intertwine trivial things into a thriller and make it all seem realistic.[11/11/16]I'm still confused with the names of everyone that showed up in the first chapter, but Stanley's family is pretty easy to memorize.
I'm sensing the main problem for Toni won't even be Madoba-2 but yes Kit.[1/11/16]I'm currently very confused with all the names.
I really don't know who anyone is besides Toni and Kit due to the amount of characters that were introduced just in the first chapter.
Sou mais fã de Ken Follett na sua vertente de romance histórico, mas gostei bastante deste "thriller". Um livro cheio de ação, com cerca de 350 páginas a descreverem dois dias intensos de Toni Gallo, diretora de segurança de um laboratório farmacêutico, e da família do seu patrão, Stanley Oxenford, ao serem confrontados com o roubo de um vírus altamente contagioso e letal.Um bom livro de ação, traição e coragem!
Un consiglio da amica: non leggete le ultime 100/150 pagine prima di fare la nanna, se il mattino dopo dovete fare la levataccia!Il libro accelera che neanche la Ferrari di Stanley Oxenford, e dopo diventa impossibile staccarsi dalla lettura!
https://www.instagram.com/p/BCTcSIgRt...
:) Claro que não é com a leitura de um livro apenas que poderei dizer se gosto muito ou não de thrillers, mas posso dizer que foi com grande ânimo que folheei cada página desta obra.Ken Follet é autor de thrillers, romances históricos, entre outros.
O que estes não imaginaram é que o pior ainda estava para vir – o assalto à Oxenford Medical, com o roubo desse mesmo vírus.Para além desta ameaça e dos perigos a ela associados, a verdade é que, no fim da leitura, o leitor é levado a refletir numa série de questões:Será ético o uso de animais nas experiências com vírus mortais?Será que as pessoas mudam?Será a família aquilo que, de facto, temos de mais importante?
Opinião no blog: http://howtoliveathousandlives.blogsp...Mesmo fora do género histórico, Ken Follett não desilude: com um enredo altamente emocionante, narra o assalto a um laboratório e o roubo de um vírus mortal.
De igual modo, o autor consegue aliar eficazmente todo este suspense com uma pitada de romance.
Durante a estória o leitor acompanha as diversas perspetivas, tanto durante o roubo como no contexto familiar das personagens.
Devido ao seu ritmo alucinante, este é um livro impossível de fechar até ao desfecho final.Ken Follett possui uma capacidade inegável na criação de argumentos inteligentes, ambientes repletos de suspense e personagens cativantes.
καταιγιστική δράση,σε σημείο να μην αφήνεις το βιβλίο από τα χέρια....μα δυστυχώς όχι στην έκταση που θα επιθυμούσα....μέχρι τα μισά του βιβλίου,ωραία στήνει την ιστορία ο Φόλλετ,μα σε κάνει να αδημονείς πότε επιτέλους θα αρχίσει ό,τι υπόσχεται το οπισθόφυλλο του βιβλίου...οι ήρωες επίσης λίγο άτεχνα δομημένοι,με αρκετά κλισέ μέσα στο όλο στόρυ...Εγώ όμως γενικά το ευχαριστήθηκα καθώς συνέπεσα να το διαβάζω σε παγερό χριστουγεννιάτικο καταχείμωνο,όπως περιγράφει και ο Φόλλετ....ενα βιβλίο για χαλάρωση και ψυχαγωγία εν μέσω διακοπών!
Another excellent Ken Follett! The book is fast paced, interesting, believable and manages to explain and educate about the risks of contagion with new vaccines or viruses. The description of the security of a high security laboratory is based on good research and visits to two such labs, one in the UK and another in the US, and Ken Follett always surrounds himself with good advisers on such topics.Because it is not such an unthinkable scenery nowadays, it is worthwhile reading. Besides it is an incredibly good story!Maria Carmo,Lisbon 20 March 2017.
A TOTALLY DIFFERENT SIDE OF KEN FOLLETT'S WRITING OF "PILLARS OF THE EARTH" AND "WORLD WITHOUT END".IT WAS A GOOD ACTION STORY WITH A LOT OF RESEARCH AND DETAILS THAT MADE YOU PICTURE EVERYTHING VERY WELL. I ENJOYED IT AND COMPLETED IT IN TWO DAYS.
Such a disappointment, as I gave Pillars of the earth 5 stars. This is a very bad short story, stretched forcefully to make a novel.
Um thriller bem urdido!( Feira do Livro do Continente )
