https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52374.Against_Interpretation_and_Other_Essays
دو کلمه راجعبه اسیقبلا چندباری نوشتم که چقدر قالب اسی رو دوست دارم. دلایلش هر چی باشه مطمئنا مهمترینش به این برمیگرده که یه اسی خوب نیاز داره به یه اسینویس جالب. هیچ تضمینی وجود نداره که نویسندهی یه مقالهی آکادمیک درخشان یه آدم دوستداشتنی باشه. اما خاصیت اسی خوب اینه که نیاز داره نویسندهش بازیگوشتر و سر به هواتر و بانمکتر از یه مقالهنویس و باهوشتر و عمیقتر و تیزبینتر از یه ستوننویس باشه. طبیعتا توی اسی نباید دنبال افکار و آرای اصیل (به فرض اینکه آرای اصیلی وجود داشته باشن) گشت. اما بعید هست که ی
دلایلش هر چی باشه مطمئنا مهم‌ترینش به این برمی‌گرده که یه اسی خوب نیاز داره به یه اسی‌نویس جالب.
بین نمونه‌های ایرانی اسی‌نویس‌های موفق "احمد اخوت" و متن‌های بی‌نظیرش توی مجله‌ی "سینما و ادبیات" اون‌قدر برام جذابیت داره که در حال حاضر تنها کسی هست که به معنی واقعی کلمه منتظر خوندن متن بعدیشم.و اما علیه تفسیراگه شما هم علاقه‌ی وافری دارید به زمزمه کردن جمله‌ی "گور بار نظریه‌ی مرگ مولف" سوزان سونتاگ هم یکی از همین آدم‌های دوست‌داشتنی میشه براتون.
تنها حلقه‌ی وصل این اسی‌ها شاید نگاه فرمالیستی نویسنده به این پدیده‌ها باشه که وجه تئوریکش رو توی اولین متن کتاب بسط داده.
Needless to say, I had a deep intellectual crush on Susan Sontag--- ah, I thought, if only I'd been able to court her in some alternate New York where we were both eighteen or nineteen!
It brings up an age when ideas mattered, when there was passion in the air about sweeping away old thoughts and discovering and valorising the new.
I miss that kind of passion in the intellectual world.
And I do recommend this book--- read it and learn how to love the clash of ideas.
A note and some acknowledgmentsI--Against interpretation--On styleII--The artist as exemplary sufferer--Simone Weil--Camus' Notebooks--Michel Leiris' Manhood--The anthropologist as hero--The literary criticism of Georg Lukács--Sartre's Saint Genet--Nathalie Sarraute and the novelIII--Ionesco--Reflections on The Deputy--The death of tragedy--Going to theater, etc.--Marat / Sade / ArtaudIV--Spiritual style in the films of Robert Bresson--Godard's Vivre Sa Vie--The imagination of disaster--Jack Smith's Flaming Creatures--Resnais' Muriel--A note on novels and filmsV--Piety without content--Psychoanalysis and Norman O. Brown's Life Against Death--Happenings: an art of radical juxtaposition--Notes on "Camp"--One culture and the new sensibilityAfterword: Thirty Years Later
It includes some of Sontag's best-known works, including "On Style," and the eponymous essay "Against Interpretation." In the last, Sontag argues that in the new approach to aesthetics the spiritual importance of art is being replaced by the emphasis on the intellect.
مقالات به نقد و بررسی کتاب‌ها، رساله‌ ها و بيانيه‌ های نويسندگان و فيلسوفان مشهوری چون: ژان پل سارتر، آلبر کامو، آنتونن آرتو (مبدع تئاتر خشونت)، پيتر وايس، اوژن يونسکو، گئورگ لوکاچ، چزاره پاوزه، ناتالی ساروت و...
همچنين برخی مقالات کتاب نيز به نقد و بررسی آثار فيلمسازانی همچون: روبر برسون، و ژان لوک گدار ــ سينماگران برجسته فرانسوی ــ اختصاص دارد.
However, I am eager to read interpretation and criticism - this is definitely part of my pleasure in the text (Sontag ends by saying 'we need an erotics of art rather than a hermeneutics'), not only a way to get more pleasure out of it.
هدعوني أخبركم أن التأويل شيء مجنون، و لا أدل على ذلك من كلمة نيتشة (لا وجود لحقائق بل لتأويلات فقط) و التي وافقته عليها سوزان و التي أرفضها و أحاول جاهدة ألا أقع فيها بل و أنافح ضدها ...
و لكنه غير سوي، و إضلال، رغم لذته...هربما ما كنت لأتوقف عند الأمر _لأنه مغوٍ كما قلت_ لولا أني معنية بالقرآن الكريم، و معنية بأن تحافظ الكلمات على المعنى الذي أراده المشرّع من الكلمات التي اختارها تحديدا...
بل الكاتب نفسه الذي كالوا له المديح كم كان سيبدو غبيا و أخرقا و مذموما في أعينهم من دون درع الكلمات...هألا فليبارك الإله في الكلمات التي تجعل للغرباء مكانا في هذا العالم!
دو فصل اول کتاب را خواندم (تا ۷۰) و بعد دیگر اعصابش را نداشتم.
شاید هم روزی بقیهی کتاب را جستهگریخته خواندم.
فکر میکردم به بهانهی این کتاب با نقد هنر آشتی کنم، ولی خصومتم بیشتر هم شد.
صحبت از عدم جدایی فرم و محتوا میکند خانم سانتاگ، آن هم سال ۶۲.
فکر میکردم این مفهوم دیگر باید جاافتاده باشد، ولی هنوز حتا مدعیانی که فرم-فرم میکنند یک نقد درست - به این معنا - ننوشته اند.
منتقدی اینقدر باهوش نداریم که یک نکتهی تکنیکی را بگیرد و بگوید این به چه دلیل و برای کدام حرف اینطور شده.
این روزها که بحث فیلمه
فکر می‌کردم به بهانه‌ی این کتاب با نقد هنر آشتی کنم، ولی خصومتم بیشتر هم شد.
فکر می‌کردم این مفهوم دیگر باید جاافتاده باشد، ولی هنوز حتا مدعیانی که فرم-فرم می‌کنند یک نقد درست - به این معنا - ننوشته اند.
باید سرگرم کتاب‌های علمی خودم شوم.ولی معتقدم هنر باید علمی نقد شود، و این مفهوم را ندیده ام جایی، و البته ایده‌هایی برای پرداختن بهش دارم.
اصلا جوانم و خامم و آرزومند؛ شاید هم مسیر من بن‌کل در درک آن‌چه‌ هنر می‌نامند فرق می‌کند.ولی راضی هستم از متر و معیارم در قضاوت‌های هنری‌م.
The famous essay on camp is in this edition as well as wonderful essays on Godard and Beckett. Sontag was an amazing essayist, a really great cultural critic. A walking and breathing treasure of knowledge and clear thinking. One would think she would have loved Goodreads -- but then maybe not. For sure she would be arguing with everyone on this site. What fun!But seriously even if one disagrees with her work, she is important just for her taste in literature among other things.
Here is where I discovered my model, my ideal: I too aspire to be able to discuss and analyze so deftly literature, cinema, music, theater, philosophy, theory and society, and their countless and inevitable intersections. The celebrated "Notes on Camp" and the title essay are the standouts, but everything--even the comparatively weak theater reviews--are worth reading. "My idea of a writer: someone who is interested in 'everything.'"-from "Afterward: 30 Years Later"
They just Wrote Differently back then, in a way that's hard to articulate without reading Didion, Sontag, Wilson, and others.This, then is to say that Sontag comes across as very refreshing—not just because she's intellectually brilliant (which she is), or that she provides a novel way of looking at art (which she does), but because she writes so damn well that it's hard not to be carried away by her conclusions because they just sound so damn good.Sontag's larger point that "form" and "content" are often unjustly separated, and the latter elevated above the former, is laid out in the very first title essay, and expounded upon or eliptically mentioned in almost every single other essay.
In elevating content above form (and I'll dispense with the air quotes, even though Sontag justly uses them throughout), we cut off the ways in which how a work formally functions determines its aim and effect on the audience.
But perhaps that is the nature of the review, of the critique.I rarely disagreed with Sontag in matters of taste (though her apparent dislike of large swathes of Bunuel's and Resnais's oeuvre was somewhat surprising; Bunuel perhaps less so, but she is clearly conflicted as to the aims and effects of the Nouveau Roman, and finds those same effects (quite understandably) at work in Resnais), but her appraisals often seemed dated.
Which, to my mind anyway, separates them from criticism and places them in the realm of the essay, of the open-ended prose form that Sontag herself defines here.
Gegen InterpretationDas Primat des Inhalts über die Form führt zur Erklärbarkeit dessen, was das Kunstwerk uns "sagen will" (solchen Fragen hat sich Beckett entschieden widersetzt), dass es auf den Inhalt reduziert wird.
Damit wird es interpretierbar; Interpretation ist die Rache des Intellekts an der Kunst, an der Welt.
Selbst den "Selbstaussagen" der Schriftsteller ist nicht zu trauen, Sontag zitiert Lawrence: "Traue nie dem Erzähler, traue der Erzählung."Statt einer Hermeneutik brauchen wir eine Erotik der Kunst.Bedenkenswerter, mir sehr sympathischer Aufsatz!Gerade (27.01.17) bei Marcus Steinweg einen schönen Satz zum Thema Primat des Inhalts oder der Form gelesen:„Man denkt den Primat der Form durch irgendeinen Inhalt (…) ersetzt zu haben.
Man ersetzt den (angeblichen) Primat der Form durch den des Inhalts und merkt nicht, dass man der Komplexität ihrer Interdependenz ausweicht.“ (SPLITTER9
"Instead of hermeneutics we need an erotics of art."Yes... But what the hell does that mean?
Отже, будь-які судження критичного характеру так чи інакше можна сховати під парасолю інтерпретації.
Адже Сьюзен Зонтаґ захищає сам досвід сприймання художнього твору від руйнівного впливу раціональності: 
Тож, аби враження про Авторку не хибувало на оті прикрі штуки, зазначу, що глибина спостережень і широта/підставовість роздумів Сьюзен Зонтаґ дає їй цілковите право говорити саме так, а не інакше.
Розумію також, що ім'я Сьюзен Зонтаґ, можливо, й відоме у нас.
Принаймні, книжка Тамари Гундорової "Кітч і література", щонайменше, не обійшлася без впливу міркувань Сьюзен Зонтаґ в контексті явища кемпу.
Which makes me this biggest fool of all, no doubt.Susan's really mean to a lot of very smart people in these essays, so I'm working on the assumption she's an intellectual colossus and I absolutely adore her.Bits:"The cult of love in the West is an aspect of the cult of suffering - suffering as the supreme token of seriousness (the paradigm of the Cross).
Ours is an age which consciously pursues health, and yet only believes in the reality of sickness.""Perhaps there are certain ages which do not need truth as much as they need a deepening of the sense of reality, a widening of the imagination.
It's a still life water color,Of a now late afternoon,As the sun shines through the curtained laceAnd shadows wash the room.And we sit and drink our coffeeCouched in our indifference,Like shells upon the shoreYou can hear the ocean roarIn the dangling conversationAnd the superficial sighs,The borders of our alliance.And you read your Emily Dickinson,And I my Robert Frost,And we note our place with bookmarkersThat measure what we've lost.Like a poem poorly writtenWe are verses out of rhythm,Couplets out of rhyme,In syncopated timeAnd the dangled conversationAnd the superficial sighs,Are the borders of our alliance.Yes, we speak of things that matter,With words that must be said,"Can analysis be worthwhile?""Is the theater really dead?"And how the room is softly fadedAnd I only kiss your shadow,I cannot feel your hand,You're a stranger now unto meLost in the dangling conversation.And the superficial sighs,In the borders of our alliance.The Dangling Conversation, Simon & Garfunkel (1966)This collection of essays was published in 1966 when Sontag was 33 years old.
When I’m reading a writer who speaks to me I’ll often share quotes that jump out off the pages, and I did that a few times reading AGAINST INTERPRETATION AND OTHER ESSAYS by Susan Sontag.
Usually, those quotes are well-received, but not Sontag’s.
Friends dismissed her as “second-rate cribbing” off of better minds, where I saw a dialogue.
But, whatever, this was the first of her works I’ve read, and her first published collection, and I really enjoyed being in her mind for 300 pages.
Sontag is right about practically everything. She predicts post-structuralism and post-modernism and warns against them. She was a skeptic about Freud and Marx when it was not fashionable. She was one of the first to see Ozu and Bela Tarr as greater filmmakers than their peers, and last but not least, she defends the aesthetic against the predations of moralists and politicians.
A pop fart from an amoralist of the 60s. Amoral in that Susie would say or write or bed anything to promote herself in the marketplace. A collection, which includes her musings on Camp, that seeks to achieve lit'ry orgasm.
"Saint Genet is a cancer of a book, grotesquely verbose, its cargo of brilliant ideas borne aloft by a tone of viscous solemnity and by ghastly repetitiveness." - a great sentence, or The Greatest sentence.
Una máquina de generar ideas, miradas inteligentes y sensibles sobre diversos temas. Un libro clave de una intelectual de primera línea.
I wanted to like this, I thought I would like this, and I did like parts of it, but ultimately it fell flatter than a sad pancake at some alternative to IHOP (I don't know where people get their sad pancakes these days).Sontag has this whole "war on philistinism" thing, and I get that, and I think it's vaguely a worthy cause, but you can't help the philistines see the light if you keep using references to artists/writers/movies/anything no one's heard of, and making judgmental remarks in passing without clarification.
late one night when i was tucking myself into bed, feeling quite tired, i didn't want to sleep so i picked up this book which was the closest one to my bed and read the first essay, then the second, and over a whole month, these essays became a kind of dessert that i would treat myself to after a boring day at work, and it has been very refreshing to be able to comprehend susan sontag in comparison to the boring dense as hell texts i thought i would try at home but gave up on.
like other comments have pointed out, it would be nice to be familiar with the works that she's writing about, and while i am only semi-familiar with half or less of what she's referencing, i have a longer list of work to check out now.
"mind-blowing"
I picked this up because I really wanted to read "Notes on 'Camp.'" Because I love camp.
Duh. And I loved "Notes on 'Camp'" and I loved a few other essays, the ones I understood.
A lot of these essays are reviews and/or critiques of French films and philosophical treatises that I had not even heard of, let alone read.
But unless you, like me, feel extreme reluctance at book abandoning, you could probably just read "Notes on 'Camp'" online somewhere and not read reviews of a bunch of foreign films from the '60s.
Unless you like foreign films from the '60s, in which case, pick this up immediately.
4.5

Some of Sontag's essays have radically changed the way I think of art and culture. Her essays should be read across all university campuses.
It took about 15 pages to realize that highlighting every striking, provocative summary statement in here would be a waste of time and graphite. Usually, a "dense" work in the world of criticism is one that's crammed with oblique, obscurantist academese and wide-spray shotgun blast name-dropping. When I say Susan Sontag's writing here is dense though, I mean it more in the sense of, say, beef jerky: every bite is tough but lean, savory, and just a little bit life-sustaining.
Susan Sontag has been on my radar for a while, whether through references in literature and journalism I've been reading, or because people like AO Scott refer to her frequently in their own criticism.
Her political pedigree, and role in the feminism movement is also something I've come across a few times.This was my first experience with her writing and I came away largely impressed.
She was an adept cultural commentator, a sharp writer and a consummate critic.
Sontag's ability to craft arguments, grounded in cultural evidence, but write in a literary and erudite voice is worthy of envy for anyone trying to engage with art and society through writing.
She touches on everything from the relationship to style and form, the role that suffering supposedly plays in the creation of art, corny science fiction films, book reviews, denouncements of pretty much the entirety of American Theater in the mid-twentieth century, not to mention forming a brilliant account that both examines and justifies the need for camp sensibilities in modern art.
I think she's too quick to dismiss some people (she describes Virginia Woolf as a minor writer and Sherwood Anderson as cutesy, which seems pretty damn unfair considering their respective works) Her writings on theatre also tend to be a lot less polished and derivative than when she examines literature or film.
