https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7824322-between-shades-of-gray
Really loved this book and it's story because I personally have never heard about this side of the war before and I'm so grateful I know about it now.
This is not a pretty book.Even though I found this novel exceptionally well-written, it was not a pleasure to read.
It’s about Lithuanians displaced to Siberian work camps during World War II.
I found their fierce national pride lovely and charming when I was there; after this novel, it seems incredibly brave and honorable.2.
Mom. The mother is really the heroine of this story (and that is my one nitpick about this novel: the narrator has no arc and no agency — all of the action is carried by her mother and her sort-of-boyfriend).
One of my favorite book moms.3.
You'll probably want to read something light and fluffy after finishing it.But much like the title of the book and the fledging plant sprouting up from the ice covered landscape on the book's cover signifies hope, the author does a wonderful job of incorporating snippets of hope even through the most grim of times for her characters.Interspersed with Lina's time in the slavery camps, there are bittersweet flashbacks to Lina's life before her and her family were taken by the Soviets.
I don’t know what the educational plan looks like in other Canadian provinces – it should be quite similar to Quebec’s – but where I went to high school we learned so little about the social consequences of World War II, so I’m grateful I have books like BETWEEN SHADES OF GRAY to enlighten me on the subject.
The war is hard on everyone but Lina knows she needs to be strong if she wants to ever see her father again.See, it’s less about the politics and more about the social.
For months they have nothing but hunger and disease in labor camp, and just when they think things couldn’t possibly get any worse, they get moved to Siberia - supposedly to build a factory, but in reality, they’re just expected to die.
Of course none of us can stay indifferent to a story about so much suffering and Ruta Sepetys chose a very smart way to tell it.
I think it was the only way to tell such a horrendous story without overdoing it.
Saying that it will help you appreciate the little things sounds like a horrible cliché, but it’s also undeniably true.
'Now my heart sank into my stomach where the bile began to chew it.'  Step on my heart, cut it wide open, rub it with salt and feed it to the sharks.. Or just make me read this book, because this is how it feels like reading this story.How can I call “wonderful” a book full of so many horrors?...But I will, because it really is, and what pains me the most is that it's all true, that this is a really tiny part of the darkest piece of our history as human beings.You thought this was repugnant?!Wel
The story was not as brutal as I thought it would be, but it broke my heart in many other ways:It was their hope that broke me down, their smiles, their jokes, and Lina's memories from long gone happy times (As a side note I should mention how much I loved the transition from present to past, how one scene melted into another, how the past faded right in front of my eyes).It was the love that killed me softly, it was seeing that those broken hearts could still find inside them the force to care when there wasn't almost any good left for them in the world.And it was their force to keep going that made me love this book, because they were stronger when their body was weak, when their life was fading away, when they still held tightly to their dreams - even though they knew those were never to come true again.The cover is absolutely perfect - It shows all the hope that filled their hearts, even when some of them were giving up their last breath.
I was so taken by the story of Lina and her family and all of the others that came to life here as they were deported from their homes in Lithuania, by Stalin's Russians to a work camp in Siberia.
I was struck by the real dichotomy between what was happening to them and the happy, beautiful life they had before which is depicted in Lina's flashbacks - the comfort , joy and beauty vs the vile conditions, sadness , ugliness and death .
i see countless of stories about the atrocities hitler condoned against the jewish, and i think we all tend to get caught up in that that we forget there was more than one bad guy during that horrific time.
its stories like this that remind me of the importance of hope and resilience.
and i cannot think of anything better to say than what she says herself, towards the end of her writings:
i hope they prompt you to do something, to tell someone.
These writings may shock or horrify you, but that is not my intention. It is my greatest hope that the pages in this jar stir your deepest well of human compassion. I hope they prompt you to do something, to tell someone. Only then can we ensure that this kind of evil is never allowed to repeat itself.  So I read this last night, and I went to work this morning. I was so deeply affected by this story, and my mind kept drifting back to Lina and Jonas and the countless real victims of the Baltic
But as I kept researching, I found that many of those who did survive confirmed that being kind and continuing to have faith and love in and for the human race reaffirmed what I learned reaching the end of Between Shades of Gray.
This is truly remarkable and one of the best and most important books I have ever read.Here is a link to video interview with Ruta Sepetys who is the granddaughter of a Lithuanian refugee where she talks about the inspiration and history behind Between Shades of Gray.
Please PLEASE watch it and PLEASE read Between Shades of Gray.
Um... so I'm a bit torn on this one but I'm going to rate it 3.5 stars. I think what made it worse was all the bloody hype (like with Matched) that made me think this was going to blow my mind and it kind of just, well, didn't.It was an interesting history lesson. My knowledge of Soviet activities was previously more political than social and anything I did know of the more personal impact on people's lives was what I'd gained from German museums telling the story of the Berlin wall. It's true
I think what made it worse was all the bloody hype (like with Matched) that made me think this was going to blow my mind and it kind of just, well, didn't.It was an interesting history lesson.
This I liked.But I'm not going to overlook the fact that I spent the first two thirds of the book just waiting for it to be over and thinking it another highly-anticipated disappointment.
Maybe the author tamed down the harshness for a young adult audience but the result was a mostly drab and boring story.That being said, there were sad and moving moments that did manage to somewhat redeem the novel.
The plot was moved forward by dialogue as opposed to narration, which provided no true insight into Lina's deepest emotions, feelings and thoughts.
That way, it would have been safe to abstain from revealing Lina's thoughts, as opposed to pretty much avoiding them in favor of utilizing dialogue to encapsulate her feelings.Additionally, the gratuitous usage of capital letters, multiple exclamation points and italicized text to represent flashbacks was irritating; those are the signs of drafting stages to me.
Sure, for a truncated flashback (view spoiler)[(such as the repeated one with the "return" of Lina's father at the end) (hide spoiler)] this would have been fine, but some of these flashbacks were multiple, consecutive pages.
What a powerfully poignant story. Really unexpected and unique, but so so important. Video review to come!
Praiseworthy one, Enjoyed every word.Words and ratings on here couldn't exactly defines this book........Ruta Sepetys, I Love You !
! !What a splendid writing and expressions of Lina, she has made.Just like she has experienced that.Wonderful, heartthrobing story.
Lina, how she has survived and fight for life not only her and others too.Whole catastrophic journey revealed in well written and exceptional echos of herself inside as well as in her drawings.*“We'd been trying to touch the sky from the bottom of the ocean.” *“Sometimes there is such beauty in awkwardness.
There's love and emotion trying to express itself, but at the time, it just ends up being awkward.”
This book is a novel, but is actually based on history, during WWII.
this story is written from the perspective of a teenager named Lina.
You see how lives are lived, you see the love and pain and sorrow.
Lina is one amazing young woman with all sure endures.If you are looking for a happy, upbeat book, this is not it.
It is not always easy writing about such treatment from a young teenagers perspective, but this captured it perfectly.
My only complaint to the book is the chapters were too short and I wish I could have continued on Lina's story a little longer.*I won this as a First-Read giveaway on goodreads.com.
I'll admit that for a book aimed at young adults, Sepetys doesn't pull any punches, but I think that's vital to make clear the injustices and to put the reader in these characters shoes.
It had me squirming in my seat and opened my eyes a little bit more to history and also to the stories of real people.
Those experiences are real even if this particular story is not.
I could've done without the added bit of romance, but I also think it humanized the characters more (while also being a tried and true YA trope).
I think I may have made a mistake reading this on audio, as I didn't find it as compelling as most. I found the narrators tone very off from themes of the story, which left me separated from it. This largely unknown history was very interesting and tragic, by I didn't feel the close connection to the narrative that many did, due to the version I read it in.
Finished this in a couple sittings. What a blow to the heart. So beautiful, devastating, and important.
This is an extraordinary book and I am so pleased to have read it.
It deals with a subject I knew very little about, it has no introduction and it has the tiniest of conclusions.
The bulk of the book is about human endurance in unbearable conditions and it is amazing.
Surprisingly, despite the sadness of the topic, there are many uplifting moments and it is very hard to put the book down.
I now have to go find out more about this horrific time in our history which I am sure is was what the author hoped for when she wrote it.
Read it.
Powerful! Tough to read, but an interesting take on a part of history we hear little about.I have seen lots of reviews where people feel this book ends abruptly (maybe spoiler-ish stuff ahead), but I felt like it was showing that all they needed was someone to show them some compassion before all was lost.
sure whatever i didn't need the remaining scraps of my heart to be operational a n y w a ythis, like the other ruta sepetys book i've read, Salt to the Sea, focuses on an extremely tragic historical event that is semi-forgotten, or at least not discussed often enough.
and also so sad.if historical fiction isn't your cup of tea but you're open to giving it a shot, this is a great book to try.there were some flaws, sure.
but overall this book is pretty crucial.bottom line: a great great great great great example of how important and worthwhile and impressive YA historical fiction can be.
Rating 4.5 Review:  "'NKVD officers are walking by the train with rifles,' I said. 'There are some men in dark suits looking at the train cars.'We felt a jolt and the train began to move.'There's luggage everywhere,' I said. 'And lots of food on the platform.' People groaned. The station looked eerie, desolate, frozen with only remnants of the chaos that had taken place. There were single shoes strewn about, a cane, a woman's purse lying open, and an orphaned teddy bear...'There's a priest. He's
Throughout the story, Lina's growth during the stages of her imprisonment is truly inspiring; she enters as a girl but is forced to grow up quickly during this period of extreme imprisonment.I read the history of the actual events while reading this book, and there are countless victims from the mass deportations ordered by Stalin.
There are also incredible survivor stories, of those who survived the time when the Baltic states of Latvia, Estonia, and Lithuania were threatened by a dictator who carried out mass deportations, and, in effect, genocide, of "the enemies of the people".
Safe in the arms of hell.”I really enjoyed the format of this novel which was written in very short chapters and narrated in the voice of Lina.
RUTA SEPETYS delivers another unforgettable story here that was easy to follow along with the storyline and all the characters involved.To sum it all up it was a well-researched, heartbreaking, shocking, and an emotional read with a tear-jerker but satisfying ending.
This is a non-fiction book, written by a Russian journalist about the very same memories of the older Russian generations who were there, in Siberia, and recollected the horrors, which confirm the experiences of Lina, her mother Elena, her younger brother, Jonas and their father, Kostas Vilkas.
What distinguishes this book from Secondhand Time is that the journalistic element is absent, and the departure point is a fictional young girl telling her own story, based on true events.
Secondhand Time was mentally and emotionally so disturbing that I could hardly read all the horrors the people had to endure.
“Have you ever wondered what a human life is worth? That morning, my brother's was worth a pocket watch.”   4.5 stars What a touching story! World War II brought misery to the world, it's common knowledge; However, what isn't though is how the life of the residents of the countries on USSR borders transformed. What they suffered, how much pain they went through and everything they had to endure, to survive. Told from the perspective of a young hopeful artist, Between Shades of Gray  shows us t
Told from the perspective of a young hopeful artist, Between Shades of Gray  shows us the strength of the human spirit and the value of holding onto faith, in a well-written novel that captures all the hardships, sorrows, and misfortunes that Lina Arvydas went through.They have 20 minutes to pack everything and leave.
This family is separated from the father yet Elena, Lina's mother, has never shown weakness, she's trying to help her children to get through this hard period.
However I expect that's what happens to people when they sustain a hard life on a very young age.Finally, regarding Elena she is a strong and a great woman.
If you enjoy historical fiction or young adult books I think you'll be interested in reading this one."Between Shades of Gray" brings to light a period of WW2 history that has been overlooked or forgotten; set in the Baltic countries of Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia.Before the 2nd WW began the Communist dictator Stalin, knew war with the Nazi's was looming and had concerns about the Baltic countries abilities to protect the Russian border from Hitler.
History has mainly forgotten the sufferings of the Baltic States which is a shame.Ruta Sepetys's family hails from Lithuania and she brings this tragic era in history to life.I will certainly be reading more of her books.
The horrors of what this family and so many ordinary families endured during the reign of Stalin is shocking and I am glad to be shocked as I think every reader should read a book like this as it is an education in so many ways.Although Shades of Gray is about a fictional family the story is the truth of what happened to many innocent families.
When I finished this novel I wanted to know more and did some research online to educate myself as I would not have been familiar with the history of the baltic states.Second read/ book club 2015
4.5 stars!
I will not go into the details of the story, nor will I offer my opinion regarding the events described.
This is hardly the place for me to do something like that.
Instead, I will comment upon how Ruta Sepetys' novel made me feel.
I cannot remember the last time I cried over a novel.
With Between Shades of Gray, it was hard to restrain myself from the very first chapters.
During the last ten chapters, it became unbearable.
Is it really YA fiction?
Hard to say, it depends on what each one of us define as YA fiction.
I have a HUGE book hangover from this one!!! I cried so much, mascara running, sobs, the whole nine yards!! Fascinating, HEART WRENCHING BOOK!!! A must read!!!
I feel that other authors would continue with a scene between characters or a scene where Lina is dealing with a particularly horrible event, but Sepetys will end it at the right moment with just the right line in a way that sticks in your brain and makes the small moment an important and memorable one.Second, this book is  so important  because of it's topic.
I can't do anything about what happened to these poor people now, but I can spread the word about the horrible trials they endured by making people read Between Shades of Gray.This is why diverse books are so freaking important.
