https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/261677.The_Jeeves_Omnibus_Vol_5
Quite a chuckle-along book. Plus some great literary references courtesy Jeeves. The situations are ordinary but their treatment is extraordinary which makes this book a must-read.I can't believe I missed out on the Wodehouse goodness so far. Must make it up by reading more of his books soon!
Well, perhaps that I have a long, long way to go.
Lots more Wodehouse to burn, that can't be a bad thing eh?In all of the stories in this book, one way or another Bertie contrives to find himself getting married to someone he absolutely doesn't want to, and to top that off, with an angry ex-lover to deal with.
This, apart from running into trouble with the usual suspects - Spode, Glossop, Bertie's three dramatically different aunts and more.
Now, if you take the usual, and throw in a fistful of collusion of the most impossible circumstances, what do you get?
A delightful read from an era when "Gentleman" was an occupation and the sun never set on the British Empire. Bertie Wooster is a gentleman with more money than brains, who is always rescued from misadventures by his Gentleman's Gentleman, Jeeves. Those with a political ax to grind will see the seeds of Britain's decline as a world power in the stories. Others will look at the social implications of a British society with class barriers. I just like to think of it as an enjoyable comedy.
With this, I bid adieu to Bertram Wilberforce Wooster and the inimitable Raginald Jeeves. This book had fresh ideas, so it wasn't as repetetive as the prior books in this omnibus. It was pure pleasure to have read this complete omnibus. I am sure, I will miss them, as if they were my friends in my real life.
A very enjoyable book. The writing style is clever and unique. The stories were sufficiently interesting and quite humorous. After recently immersing myself in books of philosophy, this book was a very welcome change of pace. I will certainly be eager to read the other Wodehouse books on my shelf.
It's been my summer of not reading--at first it was too hot in the non-airconditioned house to read (I've gotten weird looks for saying that, but I cannot maintain motivation to read when it's unbearably hot and stuffy), and by the time we fixed it I was out of the habit--but I've eased myself back in over the last week with this Jeeves Omnibus, which consists of Stiff Upper Lip, Jeeves; The Inimitable Jeeves; and Carry On, Jeeves.Stiff Upper Lip Jeeves - Originally published as a novel proper instead of a collection of short stories, it's the only slow breather of the 3 books, and it's an absolute pleasure to read.
5 stars.The Inimitable Jeeves - According to wikipedia, for this book they collected 11 short stories, originally published in magazines and only tenuously related, and bizarrely redivided them to fit into 18 total chapters (the 'bizarrely' bit was from me, not wikipedia).
(Who knew there are so many Wodehouse books, for instance, or that Hugh Laurie stars as Wooster in a series called Jeeves and Wooster?)It took me a little while to figure out the humor, since I'm not English and had no introduction to Wooster's style.
Inimitable Jeeves ties all the stories together at the end, and they all have a common thread anyway: Bingo Little (a character that I hate (he's much more lovable in the movie series)).
Carry On, Jeeves, however, has no common thread that I can see, other than that each story is hilarious.Long story short:Loved Stiff Upper Lip. Drug myself through Inimitable.
Much Obliged, Jeeves, was just as terrific as any other Wodehouse novel. I enjoyed it immensely.
i wanted this book so badly, in order to have all 5 omnibus' that i actaully bought it from amazon.uk. totally nuts.much oblighed, jeeves (13th book)aunts aren't gentlemen (14th book)extricating young gussie: this is actually the very first jeeves story. i'll be reading it as soon as i finish carry on, jeeves.jeeves makes an omelette: another short story, this one coming after jeeves and teh feudal spirit.jeeves and the greasy bird: the last single story. written after stiff upper lip, jeeves.
okay, I admit it...I skimmed this book rather than READ it. But all of the stories were favorites of mine from the TV show...episodes of which I've watched several times, so while I enjoyed reading the original words, I knew what would happen at every turn and hence, the reading was a bit boring. Wodehouse is hilarious though/
Same old, same old... Bertie Wooster travels to country estates, accidentally becomes engaged to Women of Great Dislike, and has to rely on Jeeves to get him out of these sticky situations. And yet, I find myself enjoying this last of the Jeeves Omnibuses more than the previous four; perhaps because it is significantly shorter.
Sadly all good things come to an end. And it is to the end of all the Jeeves & Wooster stories I've arrived at. This is the slimmest volume of the 5-set & the stories are perhaps not as hot as some of the earlier ones, though I still thoroughly enjoyed it.
P.G. Wodehouse wrote like a fiend, and his particular specialty was soft, intelligent, wry humour. Whenever I read Wodehouse's work, I find myself smiling and smiling -- always makes me feel good. Gentle stories in a language that is beautifully wrought.
These are the later collections of Wodehouse's Jeeves and Wooster stories, and though they are certainly more sporadic and a little bit more random in storyline, I received the same level of enjoyment from reading them. There is simply no way that these stories don't leave you 100% satisfied.
Usual laugh-out-loud Wodehouse, but with more focus on Aunt Dahlia. As usual, the British humor is hilarious and P.G. Wodehouse is great.
Hard not to enjoy Wodehouse. Light, hilarious, and very snarky.
Bertie Wooster is so not with it and Jeeves is so patient. I am always amused at their relationship.
Very light, bright, and sparkling, so if you only read serious heavy stuff, you won't like it. I, however, loved it. :)
Can a collection of Jeeves stories be anything else than perfect? The answer, I am pleased to report, is no.
Seems odd not to include the books in chronological order but, other than that, you really can't go wrong.
Absolute perfection. All of the jeeves and wooster books and the blanding castle series!!!!!!!!. Love it
Jeeves saves the day again!
