https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/991544.Bhagavad_Gita_As_It_Is
Bhagavada Gita is a text when you read it in Sanskrit produces an effect that resonates somewhere deep in your heart.
I know this because as a child I used to hear my grand father recite Gita as it is in Sanskrit (he knew it by heart), and that had some kind of celestial experience inside me.
Since I didn't know Sanskrit I had to depend on a translated version.
The Bhagavad Gita according to Gandhi is a much better book.
Gandhi has lived the words he had said.
You can check his version here: Gita According to Gandhi
The only issue I take with it is that at times he can be rather controversial in his interpretive purports of the verses naturally injecting his personal opinions that may or may not be accurate to the meaning of the verse.
However, whether in agreeance with him or not, Prabhupada is still a person who deserves respect and the translations of the Gita passages themselves are some of the more personal and clear.
Prabhupada's purports and interpretations are interesting to look at as well...
so long as you don't take his interpretation as law and you form your own opinions.
The Bhagavad is one of the greatest works of literature. Here it is tenderly and lovingly mangled from its original by a sectarian and abusive translator who, while offering the "original" sanskrit, still departs wildly from it in his purports. What the book gains from is an immense popularity due it's publishers fervent marketing of the book, free copies, etc.
This book is a way to live life..hence will be reading it forever...
The author has done a nice job in translating the verses from Sanskrit to English and pointing out the meanings of tough Sanskrit words.
And this may drive away people who follow some other God or some other theory or some other religion.Instead of reading the whole explanation, people may want to read only the English translation of the verses which, in any case, are the true words spoken by Krishna.
The translation of these seems to be correct and instead of being wrongly spoon-fed by the author, reader should derive his/her own version of the verses.
This line of reasoning is given full play, front and center, in the Bhagavad-gita, with Krisna eventually opining that it would be immoral for Arjuna to not go out and kill on the battlefield in this civil war.
I'll begin by saying that my intention of reading Bhagavad Gita was not to find god, but to gain a better understanding of life.Unfortunately, most part of the book is just blind following of Krsna - "DO THIS; DON'T DO THAT because Krsna said so".
I don't think so.In 9:23, it says: "Those who are devotees of other gods and who worship them with faith actually worship only Me, O son of Kunti, but they do so in a wrong way.".And the purport of 3:22 goes as: "The Supreme Lord is the controller of all other controllers, and He is the greatest of all the diverse planetary leaders.
Such equanimity is called yoga.5:20 - A person who neither rejoinces upon achieving something pleasant nor laments upon obtaining something unpleasant, who is self-intelligent, who is unbewildered, and who knows the science of God, is already situated in transcendence.6:6 - For him who has conquered the mind, the mind is the best of friends; but for one who has failed to do so, his mind will remian the greatest enemy.6:16 - There is no possibility of one's becoming a yogi, O Arjuna, if one eats too much or eats too little, sleeps too much or does not sleep enough.12:6-20 - But those who worship Me, giving up all their activities unto Me and being devoted to Me without deviation, engaged in devotional service and always meditating upon Me, having fixed their minds upon Me, O son of Prtha - for them I am the swift deliverer from the ocean of birth and death.
EDIT: The five stars are for only for Gita (I'd recommend reading any normal translation) and not for this translation by Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada of ISKCON who has mixed the nonsensical spices of Krishna-bhakti into an excellent book such as this.Geeta Saar or Summary of Geeta:"Whatever happened, it happened for good.Whatever is happening, is happening for good.Whatever will happen, will happen for good.What has slipped away from you, for which you are shedding tears?What have you brought in this world along with yourself, that you now have lost?What have you produced (with your own material) that now has been obliterated?Everything that you have, you have taken from here.Every small thing you have given out, you have given here.Whatever is yours today, Was some other person's yesterday,Will be someone else's tomorrow.Transformation (in and of the world), is inevitable."Bhagavad Geeta meaning in English The Song of God remains the most relieving of all spiritual jewels available to us humans.
While reading, I came across this:"O son of Prthā, those who take shelter in Me, THOUGH THEY BE OF LOWER BIRTH - WOMEN, VAIŚYAS [MERCHANTS] AND ŚŪDRAS [WORKERS] - can attain the supreme destination."(Chapter 9, Text 32)That did it for me.
I'm sure some human has written this book.
the Sanskrit one says the exact same thing.
They take birth on the planet of Indra, where they enjoy godly delights." - Krsna (Bhagavad Gita, Pg.413, Translation)"Among all kinds of killers, time is the ultimate because time kills everything.
Time is the representive of Krsna because in due course of time there will be a great fire and everything will be annihilated." - A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupāda (Bhagavad Gita, Pg.465, Purport)"I am all-devouring death, and I am the generator of all things yet to be."  - Krsna (Bhagavad Gita, Pg.465, Translation)"Any glorious or beautiful existence should be understood to be but a fragmental manifestation..."  - A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupāda (Bhagavad Gita, Pg.469, Purport)"Silent does not mean that one should not speak; silent means that one should not speak nonsense.
The Bhagavad-Gita itself is an incredibly important powerful Hindu yogic holy text filled with very important core knowledge useful for anyone on the spiritual path. But this translation and commentary of it is bias towards a dualistic philosophy, thus making this not a good version of the Bhagavad-Gita to read, unless you are someone following the particular tradition this version is biased towards, Gaudiya Vaishnavism aka the Hare Krishna tradition.
But there is certain aspect of life, far away from the grasp of our hands and eyes, beyond the logical intellect, which is eternal, which specifies how to use the new knowledge, what purpose it should have, how inner self needs to be kept pure in the wake of unintentional consequences and so on.
This knowledge contains the fundamental laws of life, the underlying principles needed to sustain the humanity as it should be - loving, progressing and happy.
They are translated towards the slant of Gaudiya Vaishnavism, and thus are to be appreciated for this age-old philosophy of bhakti-yoga, or loving devotion to Lord Krishna.The purports, however, are the ones that are considered controversial, especially towards those who are not of a conservative background.
But as a religionist who has studied many religions in the past, I have to say that in order to appreciate Srila Prabhupad's writings, even that of the whole Gaudiya Vaishnava world, it truly necessitates context and understanding of the tradition in itself before one can truly make an honest judgement.
Mostly what surprised me about this is how much is was like other religious texts, telling you that in order for you to understand, you first have to believe, and that god is everything etc.
A lot of the language seemed very old testament-ish.It was repetitive, like any religious texts, meant to brainwash you.
The biggest difference between this and other religious texts is how much it talked about transcendentalism and compassion.
All that can be addressed without a deity.
What is a transcendental deity?
How do you prove it's there?
The old circular argument, the book proves that the book is correct.
The books message is that Bhakti Yoga is the best way to unite with God, who is Krishna, and that chanting the maha-mantra is the most important part of that practice.
Arjuna the soldier discovers that his charioteer Krishna is God, who reveals his universal form to him, and instructs Arjuna in three forms of yoga, Bhakti being the highest form.From Yahoo answers a better explantion: the bhagavad gita s a hindu scripture, it is a verse that is essentially a conversation between krishna and arjuna at the start of the kurukshetra war, where arjuna is confused and unsure and full of doubt and krishna talks to him, explaining his duties as a warrior.
Is it the book to live one's life by?
This is a book filled with misogyny, hatred (only towards the one who does not believe in Krishna, of course) and bigotry.
If you think that the Bhagavad Gita is a better book than the translator makes it seem, you are probably correct, but not by much.
Prabhupada just exaggerates certain things to fit the version of dogma he is peddling, but those objectionable elements do exist in the book.
The problems arise when we try, sadly, to claim such books to contain timeless gospel, unquestionably sacred, true and relevant.
This text demonstrates some of the fundamental differences in Indian and Western thought, and why the two are somewhat irreconcilable.
Overall, the text, translation, and exposition are helpful to first-time readers.
Artwork in the text is beautiful, and has an entrancing quality in itself.
Among great religious texts the BG is in the top 10 or so, but it is filled with overly fanciful imagery that a modern reader will find somewhat amusing.
This text is big on trying to rationalize, and therefore make acceptable, a religious system that is lacking in substantive historical verification, and advocates a deity which is not worthy of emulating.
One cannot live happily without applying the philosophy of the Bhagavad-Gita As It Is translated by His Divine Grace A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada.
All glories to Srila Prabhupada founder and acarya of International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON).
Srila Prabhupada is divinely eloquent and pure without a trace of material contamination.
He is dear to Krishna, dear to Lord Caitanya for propagating the movement, and he is dear to his Guru Maharaja, Srila Bhaktisiddhanta Sarasvati Gosvami in line of the parampara or disciplic succession of Gaudiya Vaishnavism.Krishna Consciousness is most sublime.
Moreover, it is a comprehensive epitome of East Indian vision towards life and spirituality.
I personally strongly recommend not to go through the commentaries given by Mr. Prabhupada over shlokas as each shloka in the book needs to be understood at own personal level and tested in the real life by each individual.
In short Bhagwat Geeta reflects all the possible spiritual paths out there for the seekers of "truth", which can be experimented and adopted based on individual bents.
Overall its a must read for every individual regardless of faith and theological believes.
I would say "half of the book is the patronizing drivel of the dancing Swami", but it's actually more than half. Each verse of the Gita is opposed by another page of his commentary, which is longer than the text it recaps with numbing monotone.At least they give it out free and you can ignore the pages on the right.
Reading this for religious reasons :)
The Bhagavad Gita is one of the greatest,best scripture,most profound books ever written.
Re-reading the Gita before my visit to the temple next weekend ;0)
People Might Perceive This Book As A Religious Practice When They See The Cover.
Here Are Some Great Reviews Of This Book By Famous Peoples:Albert Einstein: When I read the Bhagavad-Gita and reflect about how God created this universe everything else seems so superfluous.Ralph Waldo Emerson: I owed a magnificent day to the Bhagavad-gita.
The link with Vedic conceptions is provided by Plato in his Timaeus in which it states…” behold we are not an earthly but a heavenly plant.” This correlation can be discerned by what Krishna expresses in chapter 15 of Bhagavad-Gita.Herman Hesse: The marvel of the Bhagavad-Gita is its truly beautiful revelation of life’s wisdom which enables philosophy to blossom into religion.A Must Read Book, For Anyone Who Wants A Change And Development.
The author, His Divine Grace A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami, Founder-Acharya of the International Society of Krishna Consciousness (the Hare Krishna Movement) has presented the words of Krishna as it is with the purport stemming not only from his personal realisations but also of saints before him, within the bonafide line of "Brahma Gaudayia Vaishnava Sampradaya".
Srila Prabhupada, as he is called by his followers, presents the realisations in a way that the modern mindset can understand, appreciate & contemplate.
As life goes on, re-reading of this edition of the Gita brings so much newer and newer meanings each time.

There are a number of commentaries for the Bhagavad Gita. Most of them are by great scholars and philosophers. While respecting all of them, I cherish this book by His Divine Grace A C Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada because it introduces the great book in simple terms; at the same time kindles eagerness to learn more about the various aspects of this great divine literature, by relating the work to day-to-day life of all the human beings.
I think this is the best edition of the Gita because it has :a. sanskritb. translitteration of sanskritc. interlinear sanskrit-englishd. translation in englishe. purport (exegesis)All of this in one single book. As a non-hindu, the exegesis was essential to understand the meanings. The only thing i dislike is that the book is pocket size and the font is small. Just 1 star less because of the font problem.4/5
I picked this older edition up in a used bookstore on Church Street, and I chose this author's translation over several others. The Bhagavad Gita is a sacred scripture in Hinduism and is a required text for a lot of yoga teacher trainings. It's actually really wonderful to read so far, although I have had to sort of make some notes as I go so I don't get lost in the names and places. I'll review more when I'm done :)
