https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25644437-find-her
“No one wants to be a monster.”  Dark, intense and downright chilling, Find Her had me questioning what kind of survivor I might be after being held captive for 472 days in a body-sized pine box. I know, a horrifying thought, right? Would I give up on life and ultimately let fear rule my world or be a woman hell-bent on revenge? Like Flora, would I struggle to recognize the eyes staring back at me in the mirror?Even though this is the eighth book in the Detective D.D. Warren series, it was my
Like Flora, would I struggle to recognize the eyes staring back at me in the mirror?Even though this is the eighth book in the Detective D.D. Warren series, it was my first experience with this author’s writing and this group of investigators and let me tell you, I was pretty impressed.
I’m the type of reader that loves nothing more than getting wrapped up in a story that forces me to sit on the edge of my seat, delivers mind games in the form of great twists and plays on my worst fears.
That becomes the ultimate question, one Detective D.D. Warren is tasked with trying to uncover after Flora goes missing .
A terrific thriller from Lisa Gardner where her psychological insights and descriptions of abduction victim, Flora Dane, are nothing less than outstanding.
Flora was kept in a pine coffin, sexually and physically abused and starved by Jacob Ness as part of his plan to destroy her sense of self and remake her as Molly, a woman entirely dependent on him and Jacob is the most important person in her life.
5 years on, Flora is a different person, she is strong and trained in self defence.
To counter her demons, she has made it her life's work to help abduction victims, an endless psychological attempt to save herself.
5★★★★★ Thrilling StarsGenre: Mystery/Thriller/SuspenseType: Book 8 from Detective D.D. Warren Series - Standalone StoriesPOV: First Person – ShiftingExpected Publication Date: February 2nd, 2016   ”The repulsive man walks away. Leaves you once again all alone. Naked. Bruised. Bloody. Knowing things you never wanted to know. “Mommy,” you whisper. But this monster’s real. And there’s nothing anyone can do to save you anymore.”    Flora Dane  was abducted and kept captive for 472 days seven years a
5★★★★★ Thrilling StarsGenre: Mystery/Thriller/SuspenseType: Book 8 from Detective D.D. Warren Series - Standalone StoriesPOV: First Person – ShiftingExpected Publication Date: February 2nd, 2016
He didn’t have to be involved anymore after so long but he was and I loved him for that, he was the only person Flora trusted.
When Detective D.D. Warren from Boston gets called in to a murder scene of a Bartender who gets burned alive by a victim aka Flora; Detective D.D. gets suspicious right away her instincts tells her she needs to look into that case much closer.
I loved everything about this book no matter how disturbing it was it kept me hooked and intrigued and guessing everything at the same time.
Flora was eventually rescued, and during her survivor's counseling she found a new obsession: tracking down other rapists and killers to try and save more girls.
In this novel, there were a few too many lengthy explanations and expositions, and of course there was the scene when the killer carefully explains how they did everything, just a few pages before they're caught.Overall it was a good revenge thriller that I would recommend to fans of the genre.Note: A warning to sensitive readers that there are some disturbing descriptions of Flora being held captive, but the rape and sex scenes are mercifully glossed over.
5 Give up Sleep Gladly Stars * * * * *   Available Now! My title for this review says it all. I was fortunate to have talked my way into the good graces of the publisher and they gave me the ok to read this. It was understandable for their concern.... after all I read mostly romance.However, I am someone who likes all types of experiences and thrillers, psychological dramas, mysteries were my bread and butter for many years. I could deal with the blood, guts and gore with the best of them... so
I was fortunate to have talked my way into the good graces of the publisher and they gave me the ok to read this.
after all I read mostly romance.However, I am someone who likes all types of experiences and thrillers, psychological dramas, mysteries were my bread and butter for many years.
and if you have read Lisa Gardner before...then you will know what happened...
This story is told with two POV's; Flora's, the original kidnap survivor and the continuing character of the Boston PD, Detective D.
It gave understanding to those who may have ever doubted actions by those in similar kidnap situations.

I always find myself waiting patiently for her next book release.Although FIND HER didn't actually "wow" me it still gets a 5* rating from me because I wasn't able to guess the outcome on this one and it was a strong, solid read.
But, not guessing the outcome isn't uncommon for me as Lisa Gardner pulls you into the storyline and I just want to be in the moment with D.
D. Warren's case as it unfolds and don't find myself wanting to guess.
LISA GARDNER has done an excellent job with this book.
The storyline was executed very well and was easy to follow along with all the characters involved.
I have enjoyed all the D.D.Warren novels so far and this one was no exception. The story was intriguing and the suspense was edge of the seat stuff which kept this reader turning pages as fast as possible. More than 400 of them disappeared in the twinkling of an eye as I raced to find out who did what!On the cover Sharon Bolton is quoted as saying that Lisa Gardner is "an absolute master of the psychological suspense novel." She certainly is!
Find Her, by Lisa Gardner, is another edge of your seat thriller featuring Detective D.D. Warren.
Once free she tries to come to terms with her freedom and new life after living a nightmare at the hands of a madman.
Bringing other predators to justice seems to be her sole focus.
When Flora disappears again Detective D.D. Warren and her team, along with Flora's FBI victim advocate try to find Flora as well as other victims.I applaud Ms. Gardner for her research to provide us with such an accurate portrayal of the emotions of the victims of sexual predators.A chilling, suspenseful thriller with many creepy moments that nightmares are made of.
Once again, I am thrilled! THRILLED!! With a Lisa Gardner book.Flora Dane was abducted and stored in a coffin-shaped box for 472 days. That's 15 months. The deterioration, destruction, and disappearance of her "self" was hard to read about. On the occasions when she eventually was able to spend time out of the box, it grew harder to empathize with her. Now, 5 years after her rescue, the new Flora, Flora 2.0 as she calls herself, is extremely hard to understand or like.Flora apparently is connect
With a Lisa Gardner book.Flora Dane was abducted and stored in a coffin-shaped box for 472 days.
The deterioration, destruction, and disappearance of her "self" was hard to read about.
I thought this is Lisa Gardner and she has a great editorial team.
I kept reading and hoping things would be made clear.
Again, this is Lisa Gardner.
In the end, there was love and hope.
Hope for Flora 3.0.You know what made my eyes tear up, though?
The last two sentences of Lisa Gardner's Acknowledgments.
Find Her was chilling and one of the more disturbing stories I’ve read by Lisa Gardner.
Now five years later Flora will not be a victim again, quite the opposite, she’s obsessed with cases of missing girls.
My stomach twists thinking about what Flora went through, as little by little the story of her past abduction is revealed, and how she came out of it.
You don’t have to read the previous books in this series or know the prior history of Detective D.D. Warren to enjoy Find Her, but she is one of my favorite regulars in Lisa Gardner’s mysteries.
Or is Flora a vigilante?While drinking at a local Boston nightclub, trying to learn more about Stacey, Flora is kidnapped ...
Instead she calls her FBI victim advocate, Samuel Keynes who takes her home.
Since being rescued 5 years ago, taking self defense courses, and learning about criminal behavior D.D. finds that the door and every window in security conscious Flora's apartment is unlocked.
When D.D. and her team searched Devon Goulding's home after he was killed by Flora they found no connection to Stacey Summers but they found "trophies" linking him to two other missing women.
We meet Flora Dane five years after her kidnapping, where she was held for 472 days by a psycho.
He is the only one who understands her.Detective Warren discovers that this is the third time Flora has been a suspect.
D. Warren be in time to save Flora?A dark, twisted novel about surviving, kidnapped victims.
Flora Dane is a character we feel both as a victim and as a survivor.
We learn what it was like to be held for 472 days -- starvation, rapes, beatings -- and what it has taken to pull herself back together.
What she did to survive make her feel like a monster.
This was a fabulous read. I must read more from this very talented author!
Thank You to Net Galley, the publishers and the author for a advanced copy.Flora Dane is a victim.Seven years ago, carefree college student Flora was kidnapped while on spring break.
For 472 days, Flora learned just how much one person can endure.Flora Dane is a survivor.Miraculously alive after her ordeal, Flora has spent the past five years reacquainting herself with the rhythms of normal life, working with her FBI victim advocate, Samuel Keynes.
She has a mother who’s never stopped loving her, a brother who is scared of the person she’s become, and a bedroom wall, covered with photos of other girls who’ve never made it home.Flora Dane is reckless.
“When you first wake up in a dark wooden box, you’ll tell yourself this isn’t happening.” Florence Dane is a survivor.
She spent 472 days as the prisoner of a sexual predator, locked for much of the time in a wooden coffin; and still she lived to tell the tale.
The woman who took her place is obsessed with finding missing people, with bringing to justice those who take them from their lives.
But is it justice she is seeking, or revenge.
What really happened to Florence during her 472 days of captivity?
And is she a survivor?
I have read several Lisa Gardner books and many of the Detective DD Warren series so I was keen to read this latest one in the series, N0.
8 in fact.Florence Dane spent 472 days as the prisoner of a sexual predator, spending most of her time in a wooden coffin.
A fast paced novel that is full of suspense and a good few surprises.
The 8th book in the series but would work as a stand alone.I would like to thank Net Galley and Headline for supplying me with a copy of this novel in exchange for a honest review.
Flora Dane is a victim ....
She's lost the closeness the felt for her mother and brother.
She is close to only one person ...
Flora Dane.
During her investigation, she finds that this is not the first time Flora has tangled with others suspected of kidnapping young women.
D.D. is going to have to work her way through secrets and lies in order to find her before they find her body.This is the 8th book in the series featuring this Boston Detective.
5 Stars for the Series
Really twisted and suspenseful! Started a bit slow in the beginning but was worth waiting it out - once things started getting intense, I couldn't put it down.
I haven’t read a Lisa Gardner in a while – I’d forgotten how good she is!It had been five long years since Flora Dane had been held captive by a psychopath named Jacob for 472 days – five years of nightmares; of fighting with her inner self.
What happened next brought Detective DD Warren to Flora’s side – and into the most confusing and conflicted case of her career.With the discovery of links to other missing girls, DD suspected Flora had something to do with it all.
I have so many older books on my TBR that get ignored in favor of review copies and I figure participating in Throwback Thursday will help me to read at a least one older title a week!It’s a bittersweet feeling now that I’m caught up on this series.
If you’ve never read her before I still highly recommend it, it’s an outstanding read and I feel like every crime fiction fan should have the pleasure of meeting D.D.All of my reviews can be found on www.novelgossip.com
A fast-moving and wickedly good novel. Lisa Gardner is now on my go-to author list — am totally loving this D.D. Warren series. I highly recommend this female detective series to anyone that enjoys mystery thrillers!
In that time she was kept in a wooden box, beaten and sexually abused before being rescued by the FBI and killing the man who took her.
Inspections of the house uncover the identity cards of two missing girls with the question being is Devon responsible and if not then where are they and why is Dana insisting that the man she killed also abducted another girl Stacey Summers?For D.D. Dana is a complete mystery, but with hardly anything to go on with in regards to Summers and with more questions than answers about Goulding, she is left with no option than to look more into her mystery lady.
Reading a Lisa Gardner book is like taking a master class in thriller writing. She inhabits character fully and plots brilliantly, all the while relentlessly turns the screws of suspense. Her pacing is simply flawless. FIND HER is harrowing, gripping, and unputdownable.
Flora Dane, a former kidnapping victim, turned survivor— held in a coffin box by a sadistic monster for 472 days-- on a mission to save other victims from predators, holding on to an obsession of R E V E N G E, or something else?
A spine-tingling intense psychological crime thriller amid survivor/victim madness.
How many predators need to be killed, and potential victims to be saved in order to balance the scales?Overnight her case became red-hot news and her family’s world exploded with it.
It’s a journey."Flora and her FBI victim  advocate, Samuel Keynes, meet with Homicide detective, D.D. Warren following the apprehension of a sexual predator lured to justice by Flora.
This was quite a page turner for me, although I wish I had read prior books in this series. There were a few references to happenings I was not privy to, and now feel like I need to roll back to them. A good solid thriller.
A truly addictive read from the pen of Lisa Gardner here, an author I'm a huge fan of especially the Raine/Quincy novels (of which there is a new one coming YAY) Up until this point I had not been QUITE as enamoured of the DD Warren novels but for me Find Her brought this series into its own.Tense, claustrophobic, a really serious page turner, Find Her has all the elements of a classic crime novel with added pizazz and some truly atmospheric and heart stopping writing.
Lisa Gardner has really found her mojo. Boston Detective D.D. Warren is called to a scene where a young woman has managed to immolate a rapist before he could rape her. It turns out that the victim Flora Dane spent 472 days as a captive sex toy for another serial rapist. Then Flora disappears in the middle of DD's investigation, and DD has to figure out what has happened. Gardner does a great job dropping subtle hints about the kidnapping while also providing Flora's backstory. The best one so far, but not for wimps. 4.5 stars.
Holy Sh**!!! Find Her was amazing. I've been reading a lot of thrillers written by women lately & I gotta say woman are way more twisted than men. Who should read this book? Anyone who likes very dark & twisty stories about strong women.
“Seven years ago, carefree college student Flora Dane was kidnapped while on spring break.
Miraculously alive after her ordeal, Flora has spent the past five years reacquainting herself with the rhythms of normal life, working with her FBI victim advocate, Samuel Keynes.
One who’s determined that this time, Flora Dane will never escape.”FIND HER is a dark and frightening psycho-thriller about a college girl who is abducted while on spring break.
