https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12676549-it-s-up-to-the-women
I came to this in search of inspiration in a troubling time. This book offers an interesting glimpse into the realities of life during the Depression, and I enjoyed thinking about the bigger ideas--that women have a role to play in world--but I found that much of Eleanor's advice failed to translate to our modern situation as much as I'd hoped. Fine, but not extraordinary.
Eleanor Roosevelt’s first book, published for the millions of women struggling to keep home and family together during the ravages of the Great Depression, is full of advice that remains true today.
Her vision of a world where women are viewed as equal to men in every avenue of life is encouraging and so far ahead of her time that some of what she had to say had to have shocked her audience.
While women may indeed be highly influential, Mrs. Roosevelt sadly underestimated the barriers men would create to prevent equality among the sexes.
This was Eleanor's first book, published in 1933. It is filled with a mix of long- term vision and knowledge of cultural transitions. What struck me most was her kind consideration for every person. Worth reading. My family and I are going to try the weeks worth of depression recipes.
I love reading the words of this woman. Some parts I had to remind myself of the times she was speaking of, but many things she said were timeless.
This book of Eleanor Roosevelt's advice to women during the depression offers an interesting glimpse into what life was like during that time.
It also shows what an intelligent, practical, and down-to-earth person she was.
She was interested in everything and everyone around her.
Her sage advice covered a wide-range of topics: how to handle the loss of income the Depression brought, husband-wife relationships, working women, budgeting, recipes, the importance of taking care of your health (sleep, physical fitness, "me" time), child care, how to handle adolescents, divorce, how to weather life's changes and challenges.
Most of what she wrote is still good advice today.
It was interesting to read that women are still experiencing the same problems as the ones described in this book which was written almost 100 years ago. Compared to some of the modern female empowerment books that I've read, this one is more of a how-to guide which was a fascinating take.
Not what I was expecting. I think I was hoping for an inspiring feminist call-to-arms, not a detailed how-to guide for housewives surviving the Depression and war time. Still, there are gems here; you just have to dig for them and then view them through a 21st century lens.
Written between January and March of 1933 - in the throes of the Great Depression and prior to WWII - Eleanor Roosevelt typed this remarkable book herself.
She includes daily menus - with recipes - for better family health in a time when money for food was unattainable.
She believed strongly that family was the bedrock of our society, so she includes a plethora of details on bettering one's family life.
I plan to go through a second time and mark all the amazing quotes written by an amazing lady and a personal hero of mine.
The end of the book felt eerie--so much of what she was warning against and spurning women to do STILL HASN'T HAPPENED!
However, it was hard, because the beginning of the book seemed like a home economics lecture focusing on recipes and how to make friends.
I was expecting the second half of the book in terms of content and tone and was therefore a little surprised by the beginning.
I was glad with how it ended and as always, impressed by her wisdom, vision and almost prescient sense of issues we should care about even in the early 1930s.
Eleanor Roosevelt was ahead of her time and was definitely able to put her thoughts into words.
This book has moments that shine and are progressive like expecting women to be paid the same as men.
It provides a snapshot of what was expected in 1933.
Despite the fact that so much in women's lives have changed since then, it is sad to know that so much remains the same.
There is a simplicity and in her voice as she expresses her thoughts and concerns.
This isn't a book that I'd necessarily recommend but I'm glad to view this brief moment of history.
This book is as interesting and incredible as ever. Many of the ideas, while seemingly archaic in some of its ideals, has many parallels to today’s world and political climate. I feel like Eleanor might be disappointed with us. We are still facing many similar predicaments which she lays out in the book with little to no progress. It makes me hopeful though. All true change needs hope and lots of hard work.
I enjoyed reading Eleanor Roosevelt's advice to women, and feel some of her same perspectives could apply to women of today.From budgeting (both monetary budgeting and budgeting of personal time), to running a household, working, politics, hobbies, and so much more, her insight gave women choices in how to manage their day-to-day life.She was a strong woman, and mentored many women with positivity.
It seems that no matter what the same problems linger. Eleanor Roosevelt gave helpful hint to the women of her days how to contribute and help their country. I like the part of the book that talks about being thoughtful about how to spend money and save it, it remind me of the same suggestions given to us after the recession after 2007It is a slower read, but still thought provoking.
I had to keep reminding myself that this was written in the 1930s and was actually very progressive for the time! It was an interesting look at a window of time. I especially liked the line where women are writing in because they are over 45 so what kind of career could they possibly have.
I picked this up when I visited the FDR presidential library. I thoroughly enjoyed it and I'm looking forward to reading more of ER. She strikes me as down to earth and it was interesting to try to pick out advice that is still relevant. Surprisingly most of it.
Very interesting book - a glimpse into life in the past that shows that the more things change, the more things stay the same. I enjoyed reading Mrs. Roosevelt's perspectives on women in the workplace, budgeting, and living below your means.
Though there are a few things that have changed, for the most part we are dealing with the same issues. If only some of her good suggestions had been enacted. There is much good advice and insight here. With our lack of mentors and people of character, this book is much needed today.
A forward thinking book. Somewhat depressing that we haven't made more progress for women since it was written 85 years ago. Recommend.
Eleanor Roosevelt is the best.
Great book just not really relevant to today.
Written in 1933. A window into the Great Depression years. I love Eleanor.
Interesting to read how she saw things then and how things have and have not changed despite best efforts.
