https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1918305.The_Geography_of_Bliss
Most of my thinking is subconscious, but throughout this book I kept questioning myself and trying to decide if I agreed with most of the major ideas.
I'd love to really spend some time in different countries, and get to know the people and their culture.
I knew they dressed differently, ate differently, talked differently, but realizing that they THOUGHT differently was an important revelation.
One of their expressions is "Don't think too much." I like this concept.
I know, I'm a teacher, I should encourage thinking.
We're told that the examined life is a good life, but I think that can go too far.
And I thought I was a grump!This was actually a very fun way to "travel the world," by piggybacking Weiner on his quest to discover what might be the reason(s) one nation of people is generally happier or more depressed than another.
For instance, I thought I knew a thing or two about Iceland, but discovered it was more minimal than I realized.
I was sure I didn't know a damn thing about Bhutan or Moldova, but thanks to The Geography of Bliss I got a better sense of day-to-day life in these places.
He stays a few weeks, talks to natives and to ex-pats and forms conclusions.
Maybe the topic itself is irritating to me: talk enough about it, and it disappears.
This has always been the case for me with analyzing humor, and maybe it's the same with happiness.
Probe it, analyze it, and lo and behold: we're not so happy anymore.
Or perhaps it's that his conclusions seem pretty obvious to me.
In any case, Weiner's jaunty tone isn't witty or interesting enough for me, so....there you have it: I'm a grump when it comes to this book.
Thankfully (happily?), the book’s title is a minor bump along the road to an otherwise largely satisfying read.While the author’s self-confessed grumpiness kills any chance of a candy-colored happily ever after, the nature of Weiner’s project insures against the opposite extreme: “What if,” Weiner writes in his introduction, “I spent a year traveling the globe, seeking out not the world’s well-trodden trouble spots but, rather, its unheralded happy places?” Candace Bushnell might not have signed up for the journey, but neither would William T.
Weiner’s findings suggest a negative answer to the latter, as he admits that much of what accounts for the happiness of other cultures would be an acquired taste for most in the United States.It’s not a giveaway to say that nowhere does Weiner find utopia.
The subtitle of this book is One Grump's Search for the Happiest Places in the World, and I am going to cut to the chase and discuss his conclusions.
You're going to want to read the book anyway, to figure out how it can be true that a very unlikely country comes in first in the happiness lottery.
"Happiness is one hundred percent relational," is the conclusion of the author, who quotes Karma Ura, Bhutanese scholar and cancer survivor.
The author compares happiness to the atom carbon: arrange it one way and it is coal.
Arrange it another, and it is a diamond.I think this (audio)book is a great gift.
Вместо да четете тоя отзив и кухите общи приказки в него, грабвайте „Географията“.- Чувствам се щастлив, като се смея.
*смея се* Ерик Уайнър притежава дар да разсмива.(Притежава и още един, по-рядък: чувство за самоирония.)- Чувствам се щастлив в България.
След като си дадох сметка как ние тук сме тръгнали по пътя на онова щастие, което е възможно само с общи сили; което прави Исландия толкова чудесно място (стига 500 години да сте калявали гените си на оцеляване без слънце), а Молдова – толкова натъжаващо.- Чувствам се щастлив, че съм свободен.
This leads him to the choice of countries he reports on in the book: Switzerland, Bhutan, Qatar, Iceland, Moldova, Thailand, Great Britain, India, and the U.S. These particular destinations seem to have been chosen partly for their utility in helping to illustrate key results gleaned from happiness research, partly for their desirability as places to visit.
The particular conceit that he adopts in the book, discussing the findings of happiness researchers by placing them in the context of the people and places he visits, works surprisingly well.
The claim that Qatar has no culture is absurd!
For instance, he sees the Bhutanese use of phalluses as an apotropaic symbol (they ward off evil spirits) and makes fun of it.
But no, he doesn't seem to realize that the use of the phallus to ward off evil is fairly common, and dates back at least as far as the ancient Romans.Finally, Weiner expects to know all there is to know about a culture's view of happiness by going for a week or two and talking to a few people.
I laughed my way--out loud--through most of this book. It was clever, very funny, and totally enjoyable. It's written by an NPR correspondent who travels the globe searching for the place, or source, of happiness. What makes us happy, and what doesn't make us happy? It was insightful and hilarious, peppered with quotes from philosophers (from Russell to Nietzsche), scholars, and spiritual leaders. ************Just read it again for book club and enjoyed it the second time, though I was much more critical reading it with a larger group in mind.
I was surprised at some of the happiest places on Earth and not surprised at others. I remember when I first read Alexander McCall Smith's Number 1 Ladies Detective Agency and was surprised at how happy they were in Botswana. It just goes to show that there are many factors that make people happy. I mean both Qatar and Bhutan are two of the happiest places and they are very different. Its an interesting perspective.
I want to be Eric Weiner and travel the world and talk to people and learn about happiness and learn about culture (and lack there of) and learn about ...
I think this book is so positive and uplifting that many people could benefit from its message.
However, since someone tried to quantify happiness, he trots around the globe, interviewing happy and unhappy people from these chosen countries.
He discusses the pros and cons of their living environment, and he does it with enough humor that the reader wants to hear more.I really like this book.
What's the chances of this - three raspberries in a row!How can the only stop in Holland be Rotterdam to give an anaylsis that the Netherlands is not where you would find bliss!Meh.
Въпреки, че се разглежда начина на живот в различни страни и се търси мястото, където хората са най- щастливи , което само по себе си предизвиква интерес, за мен беше скучновата, не добре написана, повърхностна и на много места невярна, което лично ме подразни.
Повечето от описаните страни съм посещавала и съм се опитала да опозная до известна степен различни аспекти от живота там , и смея да твърдя, че горепосоченото отношение не важи само за Холандия.
Та на автора като журналист би трябвало да му известно, че това е пълен абсурд, колко по-бедни страни има , където хората наистина едва оцеляват.
I could not finish this book.
Weiner takes a tone that grated on my nerves.
Yes, the topic of happiness is fairly high stakes, and instead of treating it with gentleness and respect, he takes a flippant tone.
After reading the intro chapter and the chapter on the Swiss, I felt as though I was stuck at a dinner party with a loud, self-obsessed dinner guest who was ruining my ability to experience the food and interferring with my ability to connect with the other dinner guests.An interesting premise, but I wish someone would write this book in a direct, clear, snark-free manner.
A book everyone should read.
It's not sappy, lame or filled with useless information.
It's not the kind of book where for ten minutes I feel awesome and then forget about it.
It's a re-evaluation of happiness.
Happiness is transient and complicated.
If I may use such a cliché, this is a profound study of what makes us happy; and right now, it's a cup of coffee and my dog.
That's all I need at this very moment.
Who knows what it will be in the next hour; but for now, I'm in the moment and it feels good.
What makes people happy?  This basically is what this book tries to answer. It does not offer solution to unhappiness. As the author Eric Weiner puts it, he only hopes his reader to have something to "chew on". Boy, Weiner offers a lot of stuff that his readers could chew and afterwards either swallow or spit out. They are so many that I did not know which to one to pick, remember or forget. The reason why they are so many is that Eric Weiner, an American, is a foreign correspondent for Nationa
He also incorporated insights from: India, where happiness and misery live side-by-side; Great Britain, where happiness is in the making and USA (for he has to talk about his own country).I bought this book thinking that Philippines was included.
Jokes make things light in the office" says the Thai in Weiner's interview.So, what makes people happy?
It is so complex to understand that I tend to agree with the Indian in the book who says that "the more you think about happiness, the more unhappy you get.
Happiness should not be taken seriously"Most of my family members and friends here in the Philippines, would probably say that money means happiness.
Maybe it is simply easier to 'be' and therefore 'be happy.'""No problem can be solved from the same level of consciousness that created it.""Recording life is a poor substitute for living it.""Several studies, in fact, have found that trust - more than income or even health - is the biggest factor in determining our happiness.""All of the moments in my life, everyone I have met, every trip I have taken, every success I have enjoyed, every blunder I have made, every loss I have endured has been just right.
But okay is a start, and for that I am grateful." "Travel, at its best, transforms us in ways that aren't always apparent until we're back home." "Social scientists estimate that about 70 percent of our happiness stems from our relationships, both quantity and quality, with friends, family, coworkers, and neighbors.
Да, щастието може очевидно да не е в Бутан, дето са бедни но "духовно просветлени", но го няма никакво и в Катар, дето мегалуксозните хотели и лимузини носят усещането за луксозни гробници, а суперзадоволените хора нямат никакви стремежи и смисъл в живота.Най-очевидно щастието го няма и в Молдова, която Ерик Уайнър посещава като държавата, в която хората се определят за най-нещастни (всъщност, в повечето световни класации по този показател, България се бори за първото място с Молдова) и наблюденията му за това как живеят молдовците и как мислят удрят доста близо до болните места на българите.
I don't remember much, but I do remember it was interesting.ETA 2012 - ironically, I do remember even now some general principles that Bliss discusses that I wish more people understood and implied.
For example, 'the paradox of choice' principle - we get frustrated if there's more stuff out there than we can use, because of the feeling that we must be missing out on something even better.
I should maybe reread this now that I have read so many other related science and popular science books.ETA 2017 - maybe I shouldn't reread it, because I'd likely get pissed at it, as I did with the author's Genius book.
My favorite chapter happened to be the visit to Iceland where, despite the months of neverending darkness, the people are upbeat and creative, great contributors to their culture in terms of writing and music, and fiercely proud of their language ("the pure speech of the Vikings") and identity.
The most downbeat chapter is the discussion of Moldova, a poor country between Romania and the Ukraine, which has virtually no culture, no optimism, and no desire to reach out to make other people's lives better.
Lots to be learned here from a cultural and psychological point of view!
This book makes an attempt to figure out what makes people happy and if perhaps some countries are more conductive to happiness than others.
How does money, power, family and friends, religion, trust, homogeneous versus heterogeneous cultural surroundings influence happiness.
The book offers lots to think about, but of course no definite answers, although I was not looking for that anyway!Furthermore it was amusingly written - you laugh a lot!
It is also interesting to learn more about the cultures of the countries discussed - this being one of the prime reasons I chose to read the book.
I wanted to read this book not to find the happiest place on Earth but to try and improve my abysmal grasp of world geography.
The grouchy, world-weary Eric Weiner is clearly searching for his own bliss and this is sometimes tiresome, but often very funny and occasionally inspirational (hence the underlining).
Like Weiner, I too believe in “the transformative promise of geography.” All in all, it’s a good read, offering a snapshot of places in the world that I may or may not want to visit but I hope to better understand.
Sekali setahun, pada Hari Buruh, para anarkis memecah beberapa kaca etalase, tetapi selalu tepat pada jam yang sama.Di Swiss, menyiram toilet setelah jam 10 malam atau memotong rumput pada hari Minggu ilegal, tapi bunuh diri sangat legal.Suatu ketika, orang Swiss benar-benar memberikan suara mereka untuk meningkatkan pajak mereka sendiri.Di Bhutan, apa yang ada di dalam sering lebih mengesankan daripada apa yang ada di luar.Dalam masyarakat industri yang makmur, kita dihalangi melakukan apa pun yang tidak produktif.
Demi India, McDonald's untuk pertama kalinya menghapus Big Mac dari seluruh menu hamburgernya, karena umat Hindu tidak makan daging sapi.Kita tidak mencintai suatu tempat atau seseorang jika satu kaki kita selalu berada di luar pintu.Apakah Weiner akhirnya menemukan tempat yang paling bisa membuatnya bahagia?
In the book Weiner, an NPR correspondent, travels across the world to understand why people are happy or unhappy.
You will do the same when you read it.Far from a dry, scholarly sociology study, the book is totally readable and at times very, very funny.
In addition to the "happiness studies" we learn a little history and a lot of culture about the various countries.
We also get to know some of the people Weiner meets as he investigates his topic, and in some cases you start to care about them.The happiest countries may not be the ones you expect and the reasons for their happiness may also come as a surprise.
Inspired by research done in the Netherlands on the World Database of Happiness (page 7), NPR correspondent and self proclaimed grump Eric Weiner decided to travel to the happiest countries in the world to see if he could figure out the secret of happiness.Weiner's tour included The Netherlands, Switzerland, Bhutan, Qatar, Iceland, Moldova, Thailand, Great Britain, India and home to the United States (Florida).
Like so many recent travelogues the book quickly stops being about the research and becomes a blow by blow account of the journey.
I especially liked the chapter set in Bhutan and how it contrasted to Qatar.
I picked it up because one of the blurbs on the back compared it favorably to Bill Bryson's writing, and I was in a mood to laugh.
Didn't make me laugh more than a few chuckles, but it did make me think.Eric Weiner travels around the world, exploring the concept of "happy places," places where the inhabitants are considered "happy." He hits some places that are supposed to be among the happiest, like Denmark and Bhutan, and some on the other end, like Moldova.
He talks to happiness "experts" and looks at concepts like Bhutan's policy of Gross National Happiness.
This travel memoir had me laughing. It was interesting hearing how different cultures in the world define and seek happiness.
My home country's doing much better than Moldova now, but it was in a similar situation for a time -- and the author really milks the cheap humor out of that kind of depressing situation, with very little positive to say, which is a shame.On the other hand, it was fascinating to read about life in less-familiar places Bhutan (especially his talks with Karma Ura) or Qatar or Iceland, even if those chapters are probably just as superficial as the one on Moldova.* p.23: We want to achieve our happiness and not just experience it.* p.43: Maybe happiness is this: not feeling like you should be elsewhere, doing something else, being someone else.* p.49: [quote from James Hilton:] There came a time, he realized, when the strangeness of everything made it increasingly difficult to realize the strangeness of anything.* p.63: I have achieved happiness because I don't have unrealistic expectations.* p.65: You need to think about death for five minutes every day.
(3.5) interesting anecdotal nuggets - more entertaining than insightful - review to follow
Namun sepertinya ada hal yang membuatku merasa tidak sreg dengan buku ini.
Menurutku, bab-bab awal buku ini terasa cukup menyenangkan untuk dibaca karena aku cukup tertarik mengetahui lebih jauh mengenai pemikiran seorang penggerutu seperti Weiner dalam menanggapi hal yang terjadi di sekelilingnya.
Beberapa kali aku sering sedikit terkejut dengan pemikirannya yang tidak kupikirkan sebelumnya karena merasa itu adalah hal yang normal, namun Weiner mempertanyakan hal tersebut.
Ada satu paragraf di bab Qatar yang membuat aku merenungkan hal tersebut.Itu adalah bab ketika Weiner mengatakan Qatar bisa saja negara yang amat kaya raya, tapi mereka tidak punya sejarah maupun budaya.
