https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6697.Little_Altars_Everywhere
This book leaves a bad taste in my mouth and a hole in my heart.I have previously read the other two books in the Ya-Ya series, and upon completion I felt Vivi Walker was a damaged woman who sincerely tried to do the best she could with the hand she was dealt.
The Vivi Walker in this book is a bitter, angry, cruel child molester who ruins the lives of her children.
I am unable to reconcile the two images I now have for this family and that leaves me feeling angry and betrayed.Take my advice, read the other Ya-Ya books, but little "Little Altars" alone.
If you've seen the movie, it is much worse in the book and, in one story, we find out as an audience that Vivian sexually abused one of her children, the extent of which is vague.
It's in one story from one of her children's point of view and while the story is well written and deals with the honest truth of coming from an abusive home and being unsure of one's body and one's boundaries with others, that's it.
And the main book (the one the movie is based on) takes a sinister feel to it when you realize that the Ya-Yas are trying to fix a relationship between a woman and her mother who abused her.
I experienced the vertiginous but exhilarating displacement of wandering through the house of a dimly known adult my parents were visiting looking for food, places to play, and random objects to pick up and examine all the while wondering, "Am I allowed to be in this room?"All of this sensory overload sits on the surface of this loose collection of stories about the Walker clan of Thornton, Louisiana (a prequel of sorts to Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood however they can be read in any order.) However, as you read you begin to see the darkness below the surface troubling the waters.
I kept comparing her to another fictional character from a wonderful book by Fannie Flagg, Daisy Fay and the Miracle Man. I knew the situations were different, the stories wee different, but I guess I simply expected a Daisy Fay and not a Siddalee.
I was bored right away, and that is never a good sign.The quitting point came early, in the third of these stories (the book is more a loose collection of stories rather than a novel).
This one is called Wandering Eye and is told by Siddalee's brother Shep, who talks about his relationship with his father, who hit him upside the head all the time.
I don't need to read this type of thing right now.
Not as good as "Ya-Ya", but yikes! Vivi is a child molester? Yuck!!! I actually couldn't believe reading that chapter - it's as if Rebecca Wells got tired of creating this amazing whirlwind of a character and decided that she had to have a truly evil center. For me, it's like Wells burned down the barn...
After 100 pages I had to give up on this.
I love Flannery O'Connor.
And anyone who perused my book list knows I do not shy away from the darker aspects of life...or from very dark comedies, which I think this is trying to be.
Yet Wells seems to think there is something warm and funny about abuse and molestation.
I know a number of people who loved Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood but I doubt this "prequel" is adds anything.
Perhaps I should try the other book but I'm afraid Little Altars Everywhere has scared me off of Rebecca Wells' novels for good.
I think one of the reasons I like this book is because it provides a sense of realism compared to the fluff in the YaYa book.
For all those women that believe they are only capable of mentally digesting useless chick lit, and they blindly read books by their favorite chick lit authors-I'm sure they hated this book with a passion.
Our world is not a Disney cartoon, and there are plenty of people that have addictions, and that consciously emotionally/physically/sexually exploit and abuse others.
These characters, although very scarey at times, are really believable.
Oh yeah, her writing ability is quite amazing too...
I loved 'Divine Secrets' years ago and recently reread it to find it was better than I remembered.
So I read 'Little Altars' for the first time and it ruined this storyline for me.
Namely, Vivi Dahlin, the mother you love to hate.
I had some empathy for her in Divine Secrets, but in Little Altars, you discover she's a monster of a child abuser.
And honestly, it was unbelievable for the Vivi character for the author to take it this far.
Why do modern day authors think they need to put in some seriously sick sh$t for someone to read their books?
I read this book a few years ago, before reading Ya-Ya's, and just recently got it back from my mom, who was cleaning out her office bookshelves.
Part of me wonders, why was it included, near the end of the book, with Little Shep, in the one chapter dedicated to him, that his mother touched him, and the other children, he suspected, inappropriatly?
I know these are fictional characters, but, it's almost like Rebecca Wells added insult to injury, making the character of Vivi Walker not only insane, and abusive, but a molester of her children.
But, how does one reconcile with a molestering mother??
"You can't go anywhere with Mama without things getting nuts.
If it's going along too smooth she will invent something just to stir things up.
Sometimes we'll be downtown shopping and everything's going normal, and Mama will put her fingers in her mouth and let out the loudest, most piercing whistle you ever heard in your life.
Then everyone gets startled and drops what they're doing and looks around to see where the noise came from.
And Mama, she'll just bend over and pretend to be looking at a pair of shoes." "Buggy is terrified of big organizations.
Every time we have a hurricane, she says, See, what did Buggy tell yall?"
I am SO glad I read this after Ya Ya. Ugh, if I had read it beforehand, I may not have read the other book at all.YaYa was written in a way that made Vivi seem human, but also with a decidedly magical charisma.
In Altars she was - well, I dunno.
I felt like it stole away some of the magic.By itself it's a humorous, touching, poignant read - but as a companion book to YaYa it's ...
So, say you could hear him talk to himself and what you heard him say was, "I need to poop." Altars was like that for me - suddenly I knew more than I wanted to.
This book was much more fucked up than I thought it would be. Two stars may not be enough but after pounding through it all night I can't decide if I want to kill the author or myself. I am almost afraid to read the other two books. But, I shall soldier on!
Southern gothic for the rural set - I feel like I stepped back in time to a childhood I never had but totally could have. All 4 doorways perfectly balanced too!
Calif like I did, or in a farming family in a small town in Louisiana like the character Siddalee and her siblings.
When the children are grown I had a harder time relating to them although I retained my connection to the main four adults: Vivi, Big Shep, Letta and Chaney.
I felt especially connected to Big Shep in the section where he finds an old black man in his fields looking for his mules.
Despite Vivi's behavior I found myself often liking her and I liked the way the book wrapped up with Siddalee's declaration to her mother, the one she repeats twice, that felt right.
I like all the child characters and the maid, Willetta.
I like that book is written from the point of views of many different characters.
It is also interesting to see each character speaking through their own cultural perspective.
I find the book well-written and thoughtful.
It doesn't need to be funny to be a good book.
The book is horribly sad in many places, and I do not find the character Vivi to be remotely likable or sympathetic.
4.5Loads better than the movie (which I love).Incredible narrator!
I picked up this book due to the fame of the Ya-Ya's, and it sounded promising with claims for multiple viewpoints telling the story, a Southern mentality and culture, and humor.It didn't take long to start disliking it, which surprised me.This wasn't due to the author's skill- this was due to the terrible characters in the Walker family.There is an alcoholic father who is abusive, a similarly addicted mother who is selfish like it's going out of style and is cruel to her children, and several children who grow up severely warped in consequence.There were precious few lighthearted moments of humor taking place in this scenario.
The blurb I read about this book billed it as a "novel" and said that it was "funny." Well, it's only funny in the sense, as one of the characters says, of "not funny ha-ha, but funny tired.
Funny sad." The book is also more like a short story cycle than a novel.
Flannery O'Connor once described the South as "Christ haunted," and there's an element of that in this book, particularly in the last chapter – that undercurrent of holy longing and those hints of redemption just beneath the surface of a darkly broken and fallen world.
For the most part it is told in the present tense, but switches back and forth between the 60s and 90s.
This is the introductory book to the famous Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood.
Although it is presented in a first person narrative, I didn't get the sense of being "told" something.
I didn't grow up in the south (unless you count southern California) but I felt like I connected with these characters and this story.
I can't wait to read Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood and finish up with Ya-Ya's in bloom.
A prequel to the Divine Secrets of the Ya Ya Sisterhood, this novel is a portrait of Siddalee Walker's childhood upbringing in a dysfunctional family.
The novel is told from multiple different perspectives, including Sidda, her father, sister, brothers, and hired help.
Having the novel told from different perspectives was also interesting, as it presented the secrets within the family.
I can't help but compare this novel to another Wells novel that I just finished, The Crowning Glory of Calla Lily Ponder.
Difficult, traumatic things happen in that novel, too - but there's also a lot of love and healing.
Maybe things will round out in The Divine Secrets.
I had read the Devine Secrets a couple of years ago and wanted to start from the beginning, something I'm doing with all of the series' that I have started somewhere in the middle.
This book goes into not just the life of Siddalee Walker but rather the lives of all of the family member, Vivi, Shep, Little Shep, Lulu, and Baylor as well as the Letta and Chaney, the two people in their lives that were there for them when their parents weren't.
If anyone has read the Devine Secrets, they know what kind of life the children were put through.
I read this book back in the early 90’s when it was first published and totally loved it.
It was!I’m irritated by reviewers who call this a book a sequel to Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood.
Divine Secrets is the sequel.
I agree that this book deals with some dark themes, but I find Little Altars Everywhere to have much more depth and emotional power for this very reason.
This combination of funny and heart-wrenching is what makes this such a powerful novel—-and Wells’s best in my opinion.I listened to the audio read by Judith Ivey who does a great job giving voice to the different characters.
Told by all the different voices of this wonderfully witty, funny and troubled southern clan, this was the pre-quel to the Divine Secrets of the Ya Ya Sisterhood.
If you fell in love with the Ya Yas like I did, you will appreciate getting to know them better in their younger years and gaining an even better understanding of their undying loyalty.
This is called a companion novel to Divine Secrets, but I read it 2nd and was glad I did.
Easy read.
I liked the writing and the fact that the chapters are from various characters' points of view.
But why is so much literature and drama centered on people who are really messed up?
I mean, we're all messed up in our own special ways, but there's such a lot of real dysfunction in fiction.
But I suppose if you wrote about a family without dysfunctions like this it just wouldn't be as intriguing and shocking, would it?
Anyway, I enjoyed the book, thought the 1950s southern dialect was fun and may even read more Rebecca Wells books in the future.
If only I had had some warning that this companion story was of a completely different mood/genre/vein, maybe I could rate it higher.
But my nausea won't let me.I do remember a friend warning me not to read it.
But as I said, I enjoy good stories even if they aren't all tra la la (Anna Karenina, Snowflower and the Fan, East of Eden, Grapes of Wrath, Hamlet, etc etc), so I thought she was protecting what she thought was my expectation of a sunny sequel.
I don't need sunny sequels.
Read with some Pepto Bismal at hand.
I really like Rebecca Wells' writing.
It is funny but also very deep, and even when she writes in dialogue it still flows very nicely.
It was rougher to read than "Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood" and made me question why the children still talk to the mother at all.
"Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood" is also a lot more cohesive but for a first novel, this was pretty good.
This book gives a lot more background to the Walker family.
It's so scary to see how much the parents would drink and how they could just drive all over the place with no repercussions.
Please, I am begging you, skip the YaYas and go straight to this book.
This is the money.
This is the one you need to read.
These are the characters before they became insufferable.
These are the characters before the author envisioned them being played in a movie.
That's all I can figure since the writing just went off the rails when she got to the YaYas and Siddalee became a dramaturge or something or other and they ended up jumping up and down on the porch trying to catch their tears in jars.
This is a spitfire of a book.
This collection of related vignettes tells the story of a family in rural Lousiana. It starts in a humorous tone, with tales of the mother and friends (the Ya Yas), but turns serious, perhaps a little too abruptly. It has one of the best stories I have ever read--the chapater about Looking for Mules, which mixes strands of aging, poinancy, and lost opportunities. Really wonderful. I strongly recommend this book.
This book is terrible. While it is interesting to see more of the lives of the characters of Divine Secrets this book just jumps around and doesn't have the main storyline to hold the various stories together, or make us care about what we are reading.(view spoiler)[As a note don't take less than 5 minutes to tell us that the main character is a child molester if you a) don't plan on ever talking about it again and b) want us to like her through the rest of the series.  (hide spoiler)]
Despite evidence to the contrary, this is the prequel to Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood, a novel that I've been curious about for many years. Call it a guilty pleasure, if you would.
