https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/462658.They_Thirst
that stirs people from a sound sleep with terror blooming in the midst of their waking nightmares, convinces even the most cynical of minds to believe that evil beings lurk in the shadows of their lives.
He would have grown up in Hungary except one night his father returned as one of those things he had went hunting for… A VAMPIRE.”Papa had said, ‘Watch my shadow.’”Andy and his mother, fortunately, escaped to the city of Angels.
Palatazin is searching for a killer nicknamed by the press The Roach because he liked to stuff cockroaches in the mouths of his victims.
Yes, I think I’ll have me some of that!Sometimes now he thought he could smell blood when he faced west, as if the whole Pacific had turned crimson, and you could wallow in it all you liked until you got drunk with it and fell down and drowned in it.It’s a decidedly spooky novel.
McCammon puts an occult spin on his Vampire legend that is devilishly (ho ho) interesting.The term Gravedigger, repellent only a few minutes before, now chilled her.It’s a rather violent and occasionally grotesque story.
McCammon can write horror.And Evil would shout through a hundred thousand unholy, triumphant throats, Feast!
As in Bram Stoker's DRACULA???So, AGAIN, you're telling me that the one original thing I liked about this book is ALSO him borrowing?
McCammon knows his audience and writes for them, the 80s Horror Reader, but he lacks the ability to make insane circumstances believable, just like the thousands of other King Clones from the 80s.
Well, it sure as fuck felt like a billion pages.
This book is likely the worst vampire novel ever written, but I've not read enough vampire fiction for that to be true.Final Judgment: Dracula as a Young Man: Renfield Reskinned
This is copy 123 of 500 editions signed by Robert McCammon.
Best vampire book ever!!!I am so sick and tired of soulful, guilt ridden vampires.
The ones that make you wake up in the middle of the night scared that you might not live to see the sun rise?
Don’t get me wrong, I am a huge Anne Rice fan (Lestat is one of the all time best characters) and Buffy (although that is a movie/tv show), but vampires are suppose to strike fear into people’s hearts not make you want them as a boyfriend.
I was living in Los Angeles when I read the book and his description of the area (the street names and roads) was to a “t”.
I didn't think I would like this book as much as I didn't! Omg, it was awesome! Think swan song but with vampires!
The "world" is a pretty good mock up of the world during the time in question and while I'm not an "LAer" those who should know say McCammon got it right...a contemporary setting that's, okay.
Chances are, you're the one who'd end up incarcerated...and if it was me, with my luck...I'd be locked up with one of the vamps in question.So, good read, nice solid vampire story by a reliable writer (so far I've only found one book by McCammon I "disliked") that will probably hold your interest.
I could barely make it through this book, and found myself skimming large amounts of text just to get to the end of the thing. I almost gave up on it numerous times, and still don't know why I finished it. No new twist on the vampire legend here (even for a book from the late 80's). The writing was weak, with metaphors that were groan-inducing. The end (view spoiler)[literally had the hand of god defeating the vampires. (hide spoiler)]
I could've sworn that I'd read They Thirst many, many years ago, but for some odd reason I couldn't remember much at all about it.
Now, McCammon lists this as one of his early books that he's not very proud of and, yes, you can see a few things that might not fly these days.
Soon, Gayle will come face to face with a far greater story of evil.
Think of how the movie The Lost Boys was done (six years after They Thirst was written, mind you) and you'll get an idea of the tone of this one.
I’m a huge horror fan but even I get side tracked by the myriad of available new reads pouring out all the time from beneath gifted pens, but this is 80’s horror which is one of my favorites and it didn’t fail to be as good as it should have.
I loved how the city was modern but the ancient castle in its midst gave it that old creepy feel that made the story even better not to mention the weather control and the animal attacks so cleverly written in.
Another well written, apocaplyptic horror-fest by a true master. McCammon assembles a huge cast of diverse and mostly interesting characters and throws them into a gathering hellstorm of vampires. There was nothing terribly original here, but it made for exciting, pure eighties horror joy for this reader. It did take a long time for me to get into this one, but after about 40%, it took off and didn't slow down. Fojr solid stars.
Because I was under the impression this novel is little more than a riff on Stephen King’s ’Salem’s Lot, I avoided it for a long time.
However, in the last year or two I’ve really become a major Robert McCammon fan and decided to finally give this 1981 epic horror novel a chance.
And, of course, this story is about vampires taking over a set place; however, in contrast to King’s novel — an exploration of small town life — McCammon’s work is an expansive look at Los Angeles and the mechanics of vampires taking over an entire city.
brief synopsis: The story begins in Hungary, where a boy's father has gone off on a dangerous mission.
The mother runs off with the boy and heads for sanctuary.
Years later, that boy (Andre Palatazin) is now a police detective in Los Angeles, his mother now dead.
It starts out on a small scale...people are disappearing, animals begin to act strange...and suddenly vampires begin to appear in masses throughout the city.
It is one of the most exciting vampire stories I've ever read.
So I thought more into it, and realized why I kept having thoughts of the dreaded DNF; the first 2/3 of the book we had so many characters introduced, that I had no idea of who was actually supposed to be the lead, who was the supporting, and who was merely the extras that get killed off later.
There did come a point where I felt the book got better.
Once that began, I felt like the book from that point forward could have easily been a 5-star action/horror.
The old country cop who remembers a vampire attack, the mysterious foreign prince moving to the castle on the hill and so many of what i'd consider a more classic vampire story with the creepiness factor being built up slowly at first.But very quickly it changes and gives you a swift kick in the gut as vampires start appearing everywhere by the hundreds and the unknown creatures suddenly come out into the spotlight and the story changes from a more Salems Lot style slow building creepiness to an all out warfare against the undead.It's generally pretty sombre throughout and stays pretty bleak up to the end where you do often wonder who is going to win the day.
I always enjoy McCammon's writing but this story was incredibly ordinary for vampire fiction. I almost hated it.
This is the kind of vampire novel I really like. The vamps are bad, really bad. And nasty. Nothing romantic about these undead. Probably one of my favorite vampire novels of all time.

This is epic horror that you don't see so much of any more.
It's 1981, L.A. the "land of eternal youth," where, as McCammon writes in his afterward, "just off the Sunset Strip there is a dark basement where men do terrible things."I really enjoyed reading this novel.
McCammon throws together a wide cast of characters, both good and bad, and puts them through hell.
The vampires are as evil as they're supposed to be, and the early 1980's setting is rendered perfectly.
Pulpy, colorful and over-the-top, just the way horror is supposed to be.
I listened to this one on audio and the narration was very good and the story was paced evenly throughout.
It’s not fair to say that the character Palatazin reminded me of the guy in the Strain, but he really did.
Ok, I get it that They Thirst was written almost 30 years before The Strain, but I couldn’t help it, especially with the heavy accent on the narration.They Thirst is a good time 80’s horror romp, as the King of Vampires plots to take over the entire city of Los Angeles and then the rest of the world.
Solid characterization and plotting.
Definitely entertaining.
Definitely 80’s.
Definitely a classic.
When your town is overrun with zombies or vampires, you have to show a little caution, people!*** SPOILERS AHEAD ***The ending was a little too convenient, although I expected the epic nature of it.
I think the ending would have been more fitting if McCammon had spent a little time developing the good vs.
It wouldn't have been out of place to suggest that some of our protagonists were also being guided and supported by the forces of good, and it would have made the ending seem less pat.Overall, I thoroughly enjoyed it and highly recommend it for anyone who loves a good horror story, or has a fondness for vampires.
I feel a bit bad when my reaction to THEY THIRST is indifference, even impatience, same as to the other McCammon works I've read.
Characters, while plentiful, are stock folks, and the story too thinly reads like 'SALEM'S LOT transferred to the opposite coast.
Like too many '80s horror novels, THEY THIRST feels overstuffed for no discernible reason.
But THEY THIRST is not a truly terrible horror novel; it's not insulting like, say, THE KEEP or THE CELLAR, and I guess I can see how so many readers value it.
I discovered this as a result of Reddit comment which said that The Strain owed a lot to this. I enjoyed it. It's dated a bit, a lot of the references and characters feel a bit rusty, but the core story is still pretty gripping, as vampires take over LA. The antagonist isn't very scary, but it's still a pivotal book in horror literature and well worth a read.
This is probably one of the best vampire books of all time. Though not well known to many readers; Robert McCammon has taken fear to a whole new level in this novel. The vampires are the best part of the story and are no longer the regal vampires we grew up with. They are frightening and evil which is refreshing to read about.
I can't finish this. Some books are long and you just want more because it's so good. This one could have done with some serious editing. After trying to struggle through to see what happens I have to give up because it's painful. I guess this means I'll be skipping Swan Song by this author.
The fact that i have read so little about them perhaps made me enjoy this book a lot more than i should have.
I was buddy reading this with one of my good friends and numerous times he pointed out how unoriginal this novel is.
The main vamp also has some pretty cool moments and the final scene in the castle doesnt disappoint, but man it takes a while to get there.
The way that it all comes full circle though after McCammon went epic with his vamp epidemic is a hell of a disappointment and a bit of a fuck you.
Yes, he still has his Renfield and his Van Helsing and his Mina Harker, but the setting is so contemporary that he's able to disguise them fairly well.Overall, this felt like one of those big, fat, fun late-70s, early-80s horror novels that just aren't created anymore...not even by guys that used to write them, like McCammon and King and Masterton.
And that's just a shame, because these are just awesome to read.Not a perfect vampire novel (that honour is a tie between 'SALEM'S LOT by King and THE LIGHT AT THE END by Skipp and Spector), but it's a fun ride, nonetheless.
It's cliche and very much a b horror story.
It's certainly fine in many regards and not boring.
But I found the villain cartoonish and the heroes very plain.
It's not scary but it is sometimes fun.
I dunno.
I didn't hate my entire time with this book, but this is the first time I've read a McCammon book that was just kinda...meh.
Tension doesn't land.
Character's are bland for the most part.
He turns the cliches up to 11.
It's just...forgettable I guess.I definitely understand why this is a book he let fall out of print for a couple decades.
But still McCammon is one of my favorite authors.
I really enjoyed this book, enough to put it up there in the ranking of top 5 vampire books I have read.
In all this book could have been a bit more accessable if he had cut some of the more needless characters out...
sure they added a bit to the atmosphere, but in the end they really added very little to the story, for example the "coffin maker" bit could have been left out completely and cut almost 40 pages from the book.
Still as I said before, I personally really enjoyed it and put it up there with "Salem's Lot" and "Children of Night" in my vampire book rankings...
A mediocre book about vicious vampires and the struggling souls bent on defending themselves and loved ones against the onslaught of the dead.
1. It takes 200 + pages to actually get interesting.
3. (Perhaps the largest problem) Every character is completely forgettable.
I didn't care about any of the characters and found them all very cliche and dull.
The head vampire/the Master was truly pathetic and lacking in the scares department.If you're looking for a book that actually crafts vampires the way that they should be, give this one a try.
However, this book was only an adequate read (and nothing more).
