https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22896.Practical_Magic
In this version, it felt like the sisters were always running from who they were and things just sort of happened all around them instead.Despite the many issues that would typically derail my enjoyment—the complete lack of dialogue throughout much of the story, the non-existent chapters (this book was written in 4 large chunks instead of in a chapter format, which drove me a little mad at times) and the way the author tended to change perspectives mid-page or from one paragraph to the next—I still found myself enjoying my time with this version of the Owens women.
I guess I have changed. I have my little paperback copy I got and read years ago. And of course I found it after I bought the one with the cool boot on the front 🙄Anyway, I loved the book so much back then and now it's just meh! I still love the movie but something just didn't get me as pulled in as before. Oh well. It's still good. Mel ❤️
Meanwhile, Sally maintained the Owens line of a head of long black hair, living practically as alluded to in the title, and moving the family forward to the next generation as she became the mother to two girls, as different as night and day, Antonia and Kylie.
As a result, the entire plot of Practical Magic is full of the same magical prose that I grew to love in Rules of Magic.While the aunts in Rules of Magic do not play as large of a role in Practical Magic as I would have liked, they exposed Sally and Gillian to the family traditions as girls so that they would turn to magic in times of need as adults.
When I started watching the movie, initially, I had no idea it was based on a book.
Gillian and Sally lived for many years with their aunts, who play very minor roles in this book.
The initial story of the aunts was a bit more detailed with local women coming to them for help in love, but I still did not think them witches.I did enjoy this one and I'm glad I finally got to it.
I am so looking forward to getting into the prequel and hearing so much more about the aunts.One funny thing I must say....I tend to listen to most audios while I'm in the kitchen making dinner.
I somehow managed to get through it, but this book was like one never-ending series of mood-setting lists.
An example:"Sally thought long and hard each time she hung up the phone.
But now Sally began to order things in her mind— grief and joy, dollars and cents, a baby’s cry and the look on her face when you blew her a kiss on a windy afternoon.
Such things might be worth something, a glance, a peek, a deeper look."I count 4 lists in just one paragraph.
Within the next page, the total of similar lists goes up to 8.

But it was the sort of dust that can never be swept up, and instead waits in the corner and blows into the eyes of those you love when a draft moves through your house.”It’s only recently that I left Hoffman’s world in 
. Of course, I’ve seen the movie at least a dozen times over the years, which played somewhat of a factor.
Extremely unlucky this latest time, and so she heads to the only place she can think of, home, and since she is leaving her latest abode, she heads to Sally’s home, dragging her past with her.
After finally getting a copy of the book and reading it, something magical happened: I didn’t know which one I liked better.
With Hoffman’s Practical Magic, I just don’t know.Part of the reason for this anomaly in my reading life may be the fact that the movie and book bear little resemblance to each other.
Here is what is in the book that is also in the movie: the names of the characters (which in itself is a bit skewered), and the fact that this all has to do with witches, family, and magic.
(Originally published in 1995)When I heard Hoffman was releasing a ‘prequel’ to Practical Magic, this past year, I knew I wanted to read it, but before I did, I needed to reacquaint myself with this book.
I read this book a long, long time ago, even before the movie was released.
I hate to do movie/book comparisons, since most of the time I am very frustrated by the way Hollywood handles the material, often leaving out or changing things that gives the story an entirely different spin.
My fear about this was I wouldn’t get on with the magical realism element.
However that wasn’t a problem.
The problem was more my feeling that it lacked a raison d’etre.
I’ve never seen the film but have a hunch it might be better than the novel because there’s a lot of padding in the book, lots of asides.
Essentially a light and fun read, intelligent chick lit (every male character in this book is a lover) with some good observations about female relationships, insecurities and loneliness but I was in the mood for something of more substance and this didn’t quite hit the spot.
I always like a bit of magic so I enjoyed this book very much, my only disappointment being that Sally and Gillian did not embrace their powers and use them! At least the aunts knew how to mix up a really good potion and cast an appropriate spell when necessary.I enjoy the way Hoffman writes. Her characters are well rounded and likable, and her descriptions of things like the rampant lilac and hordes of toads in the garden are gorgeous. Altogether a very readable, entertaining piece of nonsense. If you like witches you must read it:)
Unabridged, the running time is 9 hours 12 minutes.
The abridged version is a mere 3 hours 6 minutes.
As a general rule, if you can cut 70% of your book and it’s still coherent, that’s not a good sign.Unfortunately the purist in me had to listen to the unabridged version.
Consequently I got the vague sense of characters but could never really connect with them without concrete moments.
The magic of love is a reoccurring theme, but supernatural or not, the threads of love connections felt forced and unbelievable.
Obviously there was a lot of filler.I’ve never seen the movie, but I’m sure it’s better than the book.
Hey, the same twisted supernatural tales, riddled with conflict & hidden meanings –repackaged for grownups!
Practical Magic was published long before another of this genre I just read - Garden Spells - they’re both good and pretty similar.
This is better, improved by a darker twist – it is about witches after all.
And as every good fairytale should its got a lesson: Be careful what you wish for….
For its genre of magical-realism 4 well deserved stars Con’s: With every female in it a flawless beauty the realism aspect kinda went out the window.
This is the first time in my reading life that I can say that the movie is better than the book.
Yet the book is so far removed from the movie, they are hardly relatable at all, with such flimsy linkages, you could actually see them as two completely different stories.
It was like any other suburban novel, with a few sparkly tweaks.
I felt like I was reading just some book, not the original premise of my favourite movie.
And the entire story revolves around the women of the Owens family, their unusual attractiveness and their troubles with love.
There is a pretty famous movie adaptation of this book, which I haven't yet seen, but if it's anything like the novel that inspired it I'm sure it would be a fun, cozy movie to watch right around Halloween.The Owens women are unlike anyone else.
How Gillian and Sally, along with Sally’s daughters, deal with the fallout from Gillian’s past is the central action of the story.
But the central theme of the story is surrendering to love, especially when you least expected it.
Charming, wicked. But also superficial and almost too flighty to take seriously or to dismiss as a prolonged adult fairy tale outright. The characters are all indisputably unique, so why do they sound exactly the same, with that similar tone of... dullness? Being a witch is just SOO normal! Er, practical! The story jumps around like some impatient child, from characters to images (the aura of plants, the craziness of toads and cats, the thunderbolts of love) with little consideration for a reader who just wants a solid good story: the practical magic of a well told novel.
I was a little hesitant about the rating to give this book.
As always I felt it incumbent on me to mention that some love this book, but I find it terribly flawed and almost went all the way down to 1 star.
In my "chauvinistic" way, I'd say this book will be far more popular with women than with men, but I found it readable.
I could go into a lot of problems in the book...even the understanding of love it puts forth.
It's basically the common view confusing infatuation/desire with actual love.
This is one of my all time favorite movies, I constantly asked myself, "How have I never read this book?" Finally, I gave in to the Owens women...Oh, this book was all that I wanted from this story.
Two sisters quickly orphaned and raised by their Aunts (two of my very favorite characters in this book!).
You know how the story goes, but ultimately what makes this book drastically different from the movie is it's focus and the only slightly magical pieces thrown into the narrative.
This might be my favorite magical family-- right up there with the Waverly sisters.
This is a really good book.
I couldn't put it down.
It's good as many genres, coming of age, romance, fantasy, family drama, all of the above.
It's so well-written and the language is beautiful and affecting.
The words painted an image that was vivid and alive in my mind.
Strangely enough, I pictured Sandra Bullock, who plays her in the movie, as Sally.
I loved the extended narrative about Sally's daughters, which was missing from the movie.
It seems as though they are going to repeat the pattern of Sally and her sister Gillian.
The movie is good, too, but I love the book best, An Utterly Delightful novel about the magic of life.From the PublisherPractical Magic is a tale of two sisters, Gillian and Sally Owens, brought up by their two elderly guardian aunts in a world of spells and exotica from which they eventually escape - one by running away, the other by marrying - but which never escapes from them.
Three generations of Owens women are then united in an experience of unexpected insight and revelation, teaching all of them that the perceptions provided by what is called the magical are rare and wonderful endowments.2017 review: Fun to listen to on audio after reading the recently published The Rules of Magic which is a prequel.
DNF @ 25%. Sorry, Ms. Hoffman, but it is too YA for me...
I have seen the movie Practical Magical several times, the last time was actually today, the day after I finished the book for the first time.
However, I decided to read the book before I finished the movie.
They are just like night and day and there are things I miss in the book, like the spell Sally casts to not fall in love.
It only took my one day to read Practical Magic, it's an easy book to read, engrossing and never boring.
See my reviews at htttp://jenchaosreviews.comRating: 4 StarsIn Practical Magic, Gillian and Sally Owens become orphaned at a young age when tragedy strikes and they become wards of their Aunts in Massachusets, a town that has blamed the Owens women for all the ills of Massachusets since the arrival of their ancestor Maria Owens in the 1600's.
In this book, it came in the form of Gillian.The ending was sweet and a little predictable as the story went on.
Like Rules of Magic, The story centers around the Owens curse of Love.
Practical Magic, by Alice Hoffman, narrated by Christina Moore, Simon and Schuster Audio BooksImagine for a moment, a steaming cauldron, and some ancient woman in a black coat pouring in a huge heaping of Alice Hoffman and stirring in a little Stephen King.
What a great story about a family of 2 aunts who live in an ancient family home in Massachusetts, with windows no one can see in or see out, 2 adopted nieces, one when grown has 2 little girls.
I highly recommend this to men and women and young adults.
If you are interested in an audio book version, I recommend this one by Simon and Schuster.
Christina Moore tells the story so well.ENJOY!
This was first book to read by Alice Hoffman and now I suspect I will read all of her books in one quick, furious reading marathon. Her rhythm and cadence allows the reader to feel as though she is speaking directly to you, telling you a long, wonderful story, rather than you - the reader - plowing through a book. Hoffman is delightful, her characters full of quirk and charm. You want to know them, to be them and never let them go when you are finished. What more can a reader ask of an author or from a book?
As they grew up, Gillian and Sally would watch their aunts from the staircase as they administered potions to lovelorn women – they pinky vowed never to fall in love; ever.
She found her own life, forever chasing dreams, while Sally stayed with the aunts, eventually falling in love and marrying Michael.
Until the day she turned up on Sally’s doorstep, bringing trouble with her…I recently read and loved The Rules of Magic by Alice Hoffman, so decided to read Practical Magic pretty well straight away.
The magical realm has seen me through from the dreams of childhood to the wishful thinking of adolescence to the often harsh realities that are part and parcel of being an adult.
It wasn't until a couple years ago that I was aware that there was a book related to the popular movie.
While the movie would surely not have been made if there wasn't a book, I believe each should stand alone.I enjoyed them differently, each giving me something special to take away from the experience.
In anticipation of THE RULES OF MAGIC, a book about the Aunts, I decide to grab this on audio and listen.
Fans of Sarah Addison Allen's Garden Spell will enjoy Hoffman's writing.
And let's not forget handsome Aidan Quinn as Gary.Hoffman's writing is beautiful with these passages that deliver insight.
I am delighted to say that the audio left me feeling more like I did after watching the movie the first time.
The narration just brings the characters to life in a way the book did not.Christina Moore narrated, and I am delighted to hear she will be narrating THE RULES OF MAGIC which releases October 2017.
I freely admit that I saw Griffin Dunne's film adaptation before reading the novel itself, so I had high expectations.
Those elements (along with the chemistry between actresses Sandra Bullock, Nicole Kidman, and the others) kept the film highly engaging for me as an audience member.
I'll go so far as to say that it's one of my Top 10 films of All Time, possibly even within the Top 5.
I kept pushing through each chapter with some effort, hoping so much to finally have light shed on Gillian and Sally as witches as well as their family legacy.

I totally loved the beginning. Really enjoyed her writing (my first Hoffman novel) and the magical realism aspects of this, but then it became a little too far-fetched for me. I'd classify this as a fun beach read, but I was looking for more from this author, so I'm a bit disappointed in this one. I am looking forward to seeing the film, though, which I will probably like better than the book in this case.
