https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68939.The_Secret_of_Mirror_Bay
Yet another excellent addition to the Nancy Drew mystery book series.
I've slowed my quest of reading all of the original Nancy Drew books to a crawl.
While these were probably exciting to pre-teens in the '60s and '70s, they're quite predictable to this jaded cynical adult.
In this book Aunt Eloise is introduced to Matt.
There is a local character who loves folk legends about ghosts and there are a couple of old tales in the book.
The location of River Heights has moved back to the East Coast.
It's interesting how it moves from Ohio (Emerson College is located on the Ohio River in one book)to Chicago, to the mid-west and New York.
The Nancy Drew series will always have a special place in my heart because it was started my love for mystery books, and fueled my love for reading.
Honestly though, reading it now is whole different experience and sadly, it's not in a positive direction.As usual, Nancy and the gang have some couple of mysteries to solve, met danger along the way, but solves them unscathed.
Why would the adults in her life allow her to do detective work even if it placed her in harm's way?
I might just steer clear of this series so it'll remain wonderful in my recollection as it was in my childhood.
“The Secret of Mirror Bay” is number forty-nine in the Nancy Drew series by Carolyn Keene.
Each chapter also provides Nancy and the reader with one or more clues, so the mystery is slowly pieced together as the story progresses.
“The Secret of Mirror Bay” was always one of my favorites; the plot is exciting and the reader is never given any more or any less information than Nancy.
Another pattern of the Nancy Drew books is the characteristics of their protagonist.
Along with being a fun, educational, and suspenseful read, “The Secret of Mirror Bay” boasts a protagonist who is a great role model for women young and old.
Travelogue voyage to Cooperstown, NY (home of James Fenimore Cooper and the Baseball hall of fame). George is bitchier and butchier than ever. Dave (Bess's boyfriend) gets knocked unconscious by an unknown assailant. This is a double mystery; a "lost textile process" (developing "cold light" from firefly hormones) and searching for some junk that someone threw in the lake centuries earlier. Also a con artist who looks like Nancy is independently wreaking havoc around the town and getting Nancy arrested several times.
The entire plot was very much believable with an uncomplicated and straightforward story.And ,that is the primary reason why I found pleasure reading it.
some of the Nancy drew stories are so adventurous and complicated that they become illogical and unreasonable.I rated it average despite of enjoying it to the fullest because of its simplicity.Another important point that I would like to highlight is that the entire Nancy drew series is great for the preadolescent crowd (this stands for all the Nancy drew books ) I strongly believe that a 8 years old kid would not only love these books but also devour them.
Therefore A must -read for all eight and above out there
Having read so many Nancy drew books this one came as a huge disappointment as there was hardly any mystery and the story was too hard to believe.
For starters the story line looked very poor though they tried to combine multiple mysteries they failed to grab attention.
Nancy and her friends unearth lot of treasures from the lake so easily that it was hard to believe that they were hidden within the lake all these years without anyone else finding or searching for them and the place Cooperstown seemed to have all possible museums in the vicinity which was again hard to believe All in all a sheer waste of time and money buying and reading this book and would not recommend this book
It has a mystery that the main characters try to figure out, it confuses you to think you know the answer to the mystery but then has a surprising end to it.This book does have seem to continue to add more details than needed.
It has some pointless adventures that don't help to solve the mystery its self.
I would recommend this book to those who liked the other Nancy Drew books, they don't need to be read in order but they all seem to have a mystery.
I would also recommend this book to those who like mystery books.
I've seen this book sitting on my bookshelf for many years, and I don't remember ever remember reading it.
This was a super fun read, recommended to all Nancy Drew fans!Nancy Drew and crew (a.k.a. her friends George Fayne and Bess Marvin) are on vacation in Mirror Bay, staying at the Bide-A-Wee (meaning "stay a while") cabin.
There are rumors of some strange activity happening in the Bay, where a ghostly woman is seen gliding across the water through the fog!
Nancy and her pals investigate, and also encounter a strange costumed "green wizard" man on top of a mountain.
An enjoyable clean fun read with a dash of adventure and mystery. A typical Nancy Drew. It shows that there is a lot more to enjoy around Cooperstown than just the Baseball Hall of Fame. It was a bit unusual to have Nancy's aunt have a hint of romance but it was just the right amount without going overboard. It marks the book as a bit different than some.
It was so much fun going back and reading a book that I read as a kid two decades ago. I loved Nancy Drew as a kid and read all of the old yellow hardbacks, you know the ones. Now, I'm enjoying them anew as an adult. Don't worry, Nancy, George, and Bess will save the day!
I really liked this one, but I was disappointed a little bit with the repetition of some of the story throughout the book. Also, I feel like part of the ending didn’t quite work. But other then that, it was another exciting adventure. It shows that I rated it 3 stars, but to me it’s more like 3.5.
Very good,but when you have read as many of her books as I have, you have a tiny feeling that you just might know what this book will be about.
This one I did remember reading once I began to read it. It was a good one.
Nancy, Bess and George have just arrived in mirror bay.
Along her adventure she meets new friends that help her solve different mysteries.
But overall i enjoyed the story and theme because it really reminds me of my cousins and I helping each other out.
I think this book is great for sixth graders.
The theme is about friendship, Family, and never giving up on your dreams.
And never giving up and just working harder will help you a lot.
I chose this score because I already knew what was going to happen, but it was very engaging and it was very interesting.
The Secret of Mirror Bay  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 49th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. Nancy Drew and her friends go to visit her Aunt Eloise on Mirror Bay—a lake in New York—to investigate reports of a woman gliding over water, and they discover a treasure underwater. I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of my favorite things about summer was the frequent trips to our local library, which was less than a mile from our house. Like most you
Nancy Drew and her friends go to visit her Aunt Eloise on Mirror Bay—a lake in New York—to investigate reports of a woman gliding over water, and they discover a treasure underwater.
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
One of my favorites from childhood...
book has a frustrating schism between two storylines: neither storyline(particularily the coach) gets the attention it deserves.
Book would have been much better as two books.
Still, I do recommend as I found imagery interesting.Unfortunatey, Bess bashing about her weight gets uglier than usual.
Book misses some of dark exciting adventure of original author's writing....
as dark elements are repeatedly and intrusively explained logically by Ned. Though this does happen in earlier books, it is particularily annoying in this.
It like the author throws out this interesting dark material, is afraid of it, and then denies it repeatedly.
Nancy is off to Mirror Bay at a Bide-a-Wee cabin in New York.
It turns out that there is a girl who looks very like Nancy (but harder) who is doing some really suspicious things all around town.Of course, a Nancy Drew book isn't a real mystery without a few other happenings, such as a woman looking for sunken treasure and a mysterious glowing green man.
It would have been a three star rating except that it was so much better than the last couple in this series, I was just relieved.
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew. It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain. Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy. No brains. To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation. Carolyn Keene wrote just for me! That is how I felt. When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ... writing under Frank Dixon. I also loved the Hardy Boys. No wonder I loved these series.
This Nancy Drew Mystery Story and the one before it (The Crooked Banister), are two of the best later books in the original series. I don't always know why I like some better than others, but this one has a well-defined, interesting location (Cooperstown, NY), solid sleuthing, all the chums and special friends together at a lakeside cabin, mysterious people in the woods, a suspect who looks like Nancy, an old family mystery. And for a change, two mysteries that weren't somehow connected!
Nancy Drew's Aunt ,Aunt Eloise invited Nancy to New York to go to her house when Aunt Eloise was scared out of her with of the women that glides over water ,Will Nancy be able to solve this intruding mystery? (i fell asleep when reading this book because i was sleepy not because the book was boring!!
Apparently the publisher either didn't bother editing this book, or the editor had no knowledge of basic grade-school science. If you don't want to confuse readers who know anything about bats, darkness, or scuba diving, skip this one. A writer who doesn't at least fact check doesn't deserve an audience.
The wrap up to the coach mystery was really short. After all the times these kids have been seriously hit on the head how are they not brain damaged? Didn't really know who was the culprit and what they were up to until the end.
I always liked this series when I was growing up and found this book at library book sale so decided to buy it. I still like Nancy Drew! I kept trying to guess who the villains were throughout the book.
I really liked this book. It had a couple mysteries linked to eachother. It got intense on some parts which I like about books. Sometimes at the end of a chapter I'd realize that I had been holding my breath!
I didn't love the writing in this Nancy Drew installment, but I thought the mystery was great. A lot of things weren't too difficult to figure out, but that storyline was fun and I liked the Russian connection.
Nancy Drew is one of my favorite series. It has so much mystery and you never know what's going to happen next. When you start the book, you can never put it down. I wish I could tell you more, but I read it a long time ago. Plus, I never give out spoilers in my reviews!
Je crois que ce sont des livres comme "Alice", "les 6 compagnons" ou encore les "aventures de Fantomette", qui m'ont donné ce gout pour la lecture, et en particulier celle de roman à suspense et/ou thrillers/policiers.
This one reminds me of the earlier books. There is danger, but Nancy and friends escape unscathed and the mystery is suddenly solved in seconds (or pages). But it is better than some just prior to it.
It was a fun adventure.
