https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1868373.Young_Bess
At approximately the halfway point, Irwin infuses “Young Bess” with a bit more of a fictional styling creating a faster pace amongst the pages.
In true Irwin style, “Young Bess” jumps between characters and their points of view of the story.
Like most other older HF novels; Irwin did not include any notes to explain any historical liberties taken or a genealogical table which could be of use to the general reader.
Despite these complaints, “Young Bess” is a rather good historical overview for those seeking less fluff and is therefore recommended for readers interested in the Tudors.
I don't have the right to rate this book for I did not even make it to the half of the story line.This book was not bad I actually loved it but due to personal circumstances I suddenly lost the desire to finish this book for it had became the symbol of poignant memories . I would highly recommend this book for those who love to read historical fiction most especially those books that focuses on the Tudor period.
Young Bess was a wonderful story, centering on a time in Elizabeth’s life when things still aren’t certain for her. Danger, doubt, and treachery are at every turn. The research that the author did for this book shines through in the writing.
I really cannot fathom why people are giving this book such high reviews.
There are great big passages where it talks about the plots that are happening but it's always from a distance- we don't see the conversations play out in real time, it feels like all of this is being told by an onlooker who's not bothering to pay any attention to the people to try to figure out what's happening.
We don't get inside their heads, we're usually told and not shown what they are thinking or feeling, and it got very tiresome very quickly.The POV also meanders and changes rapidly.
Young Bess is the first in a trilogy Margaret Irwin wrote on the life of Elizabeth Tudor and begins towards the end of Henry VIII's life during his marriage to Catherine Parr.
Upon Henry's death Bess goes to live with the widowed Catherine who soon marries the new King's uncle Tom Seymour - but was Catherine really Tom's first choice for a bride or would he have preferred to marry the young princess to further his own ambitions?
I believe this was written for the YA market and would do very nicely for today's younger readers new to the period as well as for those who do enjoy a YA book on occasion.
This is my mother's favorite book, which influenced both her and me in our love of the 16th century. I asked her to share her thoughts: https://perfectretort.blogspot.com/20...I recently found out it was made into a movie starring Jean Simmons. The popularity of Philippa Gregory has brought this wonderful trilogy back into print.
Add a Henry and you've got the entire dramatis personae right in front of you, minus their roles.Often, Irwin intersperses quotes directly from speeches, letters, or other records of the time, which sometimes gives the novel a bit of a textbooky feel.
We can't skip it because will be continually referred to later - explanation of motives, brief jokes, even minor dialogue all stems from this digression, and if we don't read the four pages it takes to move us on to the next thing, the rest of the book that has anything to do with this character will be confusing.The novel centers on Elizabeth's dalliance (?
From my blog...Exquisitely written, well researched, with intense and vivid imagery, Young Bess The Girl Who Would Be Queen is an absolutely amazing beginning of what promises to be a spectacular trilogy chronicling the life of Queen Elizabeth.
I do believe my favourite genre, if pressed to choose would be historical fiction and Young Bess The Girl Who Would Be Queen is a shining example of exactly why historical fiction is such a fabulous genre.
An absolute must read, I give Young Bess The Girl Who Would Be Queen high marks all around and recommend this novel to everyone.
From my blog...[return]Exquisitely written, well researched, with intense and vivid imagery, Young Bess The Girl Who Would Be Queen is an absolutely amazing beginning of what promises to be a spectacular trilogy chronicling the life of Queen Elizabeth.
I do believe my favourite genre, if pressed to choose would be historical fiction and Young Bess The Girl Who Would Be Queen is a shining example of exactly why historical fiction is such a fabulous genre.
An absolute must read, I give Young Bess The Girl Who Would Be Queen high marks all around and recommend this novel to everyone.
Elizabeth I is one of my favorite historical figures and I have done quite a bit of reading about her - but most of it is from the time after she ascended to the throne.
Before she became the political genius and great Queen of England.The book was easy to read and is very detailed as to its period and time.
Elizabeth's position was precarious and she had many lessons to learn.Yet it is often forgotten that she was still very young.The book is an excellent starting point for someone wanting to learn about Elizabeth and this period in history.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading Young Bess.
While I was reading this book I had my moments where I was thinking “this is nice…this is cute…” the writing was very eloquent and good.
And you should never have to force yourself to read a book (except for school).
But nothing made me want to keep reading.I didn’t get far enough into the book to be able to say what content was in it.Young Bess was re-published by Sourcebooks March 1st.
Please know that I am in the minority for those who didn’t like/finish it.
She does not write quite as salaciously about matters sexual as Philippa Gregory did in The Other Boleyn Girl, but she makes Thomas Seymour's pursuit of the young Princess Elizabeth while married to her pregnant step-mother, Katherine Parr, quite clear.
Katherine Parr survived Henry VIII's moody old age, only to fall victim to the tender mercies of the passionate Seymour and his heedless ambition.
I thoroughly enjoyed the first volume in the author's trilogy about Elizabeth, and I look forward to beginning the next volume once I finish a few more group books.
Opening when she is twelve years old, readers meet an intelligent, strong-willed child who has been reunited with her father through the auspices of his Queen, Catherine Parr.
Catherine's death leaves Seymour even more time to pursue the young princess and intrigue against his brother, Edward, Lord Protector of young King Edward.
The book ends with the pitiable death of little King Edward and the machinations of John Dudley, current Lord Protector attempting to put his own son on the thrown instead of Mary or Elizabeth.I greatly enjoyed the strong, wily and intelligent young princess presented to us by Mrs. Irwin.
I was a little surprised at just how floral the prose was until I realised it was written in the 1940s.Having said that, it is so clear the author loved writing this.
The characters are interestingly developed throughout the book.I would have liked the first half to have gone a little quicker, and from aged 15 to 19 apparently nothing worth writing happened to Elizabeth, whereas every detail was noted before.
Most historical books written today have to have a twist to the conventional tale, I can't decide whether I liked the fact this didn't or not.
You have read the stories about Queen Anne and King Henry but what about Princess Elizabeth?
In Young Bess, the first book in the Elizabeth I trilogy, readers learn about Elizabeth “Bess” and her life after her mother’s death.
Bess does not have much love for he father, the King.
This was a nice change from all the other books that are currently out about Queen Anne and Kind Henry VII.
This book focused on Princess Elizabeth.
In Young Bess, Elizabeth is really conniving and vindictive.
Young Bess is a check out read for fans of the Tudors.
This fits into the category of 'Historical Fiction Done Right' because of the research however the multiple viewpoints/exposition on the part of the different characters got a little annoying.
I would have preferred it to be more from Elizabeth's POV since it is about her.
I don't care what the Duke of Somerset is thinking with regard to his wife...
I do want to know more about the conflicting feelings Elizabeth has towards Tom, technically he's taking advantage of her but she wants it but doesn't...see it could be really interesting!
Maybe I'll just write my own book about Elizabeth and Tom Seymour.

very engaging. This was billed as YA historical fiction, but I think it addresses more adult themes than YA, but at the same time doesn't focus on the gruesome or pornographic parts of history. I appreciated reading a book that could address violence and sex without making me flinch, and also without making it seem like it had ignored or left out the harshness of that time in history.Historical fiction, following Elizabeth I from age 12 (?) to age 17. There are two more books in the series which I intend to read also.
My aunt sent me this series. This is the first one. I had moments of enjoyment but found it a bit dry. Also, it seemed odd that so much time was spent developing certain scenes and characters and then the final chapter was a quick recap of ensuing betrayal and executions. It was as if the author had to finish up the novel in order to meet a deadline. I will probably read the rest of the series, simply because this historical family has always fascinated me. Hopefully the other two installments are more enjoyable.
I also enjoyed the fact that some reference is made to the numerous rumours circulated at the time that when Elizabeth went on "progress" to remote parts of her Kingdom she was really going to give birth to yet another Tudor illegitimate.
Although much of the book does concern the young Elizabeth in the second half there is a lot of information about what is happening at the Court and in other countries during this time period.Once I've caught up a bit on my reading I will certainly be purchasing the remaining books in the trilogy.
This would not have been possible if the story was only told from Bess' point of view.I certainly learnt a lot about the young future Queen's teenage years, the scandals that surrounded her, and the careful line she had to walk after the death of her father; no mean feat for the amount of men that craved the power they could get by controlling the royal children.This is part of a series about the life of Elizabeth, and Mary and although ends with a very positive outlook on the future, which history tells us was not as simple as we'd wish it, there is certainly enough set up to make the reader want to know more about young Bess' next steps.At this point in history, Lady Jane Grey has just been declared Queen, and many of us know her tale already.
I wonder how Elizabeth's tale will be told in the next instalment?Read if you like the Tudor era, lots of historical information, and plenty of scandal.
I read this too long ago to remember much about it except that I liked it at the time. I'm not sure how it would go over today since most fiction readers can't seem to get through a book unless the angst and "romance" is off the charts and the whole thing is written in first person present like a Twitter feed. Irwin often wrote flowery descriptions and tended to take her time unraveling the story. Personally, I preferred Margaret Campbell Barnes' novels, but this Young Bess series was quite popular.
This book follows Elizabeth I, daughter of Henry VIII and Nan Bullen aka Anne Boleyn, during her adolescent years before taking the throne of England. While interesting, it relies too much on the author’s imagination to fill in what the characters said, thought and did at that point in time that affected the royalty for many years to come. I prefer more fact and less fiction
The best fictional portrayal of Elizabeth I, bar none. Though some of the portrayals are a bit dated (like Frances Brandon Grey), it still holds up well for the most part.
Not as good as I hoped. Probably the most annoying thing was Anne Boylene being referred to as 'Nan Bullen'.
Although this is a historical novel, I found it full of interesting facts regarding the important players of the time, but it was written in such a way that it felt like Margaret was right here telling us the story as she knew it.
Young Bess is a must read for anyone interested in the Tudor times and to get a feel for what it was like to Elizabeth I as she grew up without a real home or many loved ones.
The first in a trilogy about the early life of Queen Elizabeth I and the perilous nature of her existence as a royal princess who skillfully manages to keep herself alive and eventually fulfil her personal sense of destiny to become Queen of England.
The book introduces us to Elizabeth as a young girl of 13 who is living in the shadow of her dead mother, Anne Boleyn, and as a result is already astute and watchful of the political machinations of courtiers and the Privy Council in the last days of Henry VIII's reign.
I really enjoyed reading this book on the early life of Elizabeth I during her Brothers reign and the intrigue she shared with The Admiral.
It was obviously meticulously researched.I especially enjoyed the working in of the popular rumours that have surrounded the time without presenting them as facts but still allowed the reader access to some theories of that period of time.I found myself quiet liking the Princess Elizabeth and feeling sorry for the situation she found herself in which was in no way of her own making.
I often felt while I was reading this book that it should have been called “The Seymour Brothers.” The novel often was centered on the scheming of Tom Seymour, the handsome admiral who married Henry VIII’s widow (Catherine Parr), wooed Elizabeth, and planned to take over England, and his brother Ned, the Lord Protector who wanted too much power for himself.
The only thing I didn’t like is that this seemed to take away some of the time devoted to Elizabeth’s story.Overall Young Bess is a great historical fiction novel of Elizabeth I’s early years.
Why I read this: I love historical fiction and have been fascinated with this time period for quite some time.Plot: This novel follows the life of the daughter of Anne Boelyn - Elizabeth.
The whole book read a little more like a history book told through a story but livened up after 50 pages in.Characters: You definitely get into the head of Bess and how like Anne she really turned out to be - even as a child.Relatability: After watching the Tudors and reading a few books about that specific time period, I already knew quite a bit of the background already.
It's definitely an interesting period in England's history.Cover Commentary: I love the new cover.
