https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2744.Anansi_Boys
Patrons quietly minding their own business while slogging through their Number Three Specials With Extra Tokyo Beef would be startled into wakefulness to see me - chopsticks in one hand, book in the other - as my grizzled maw broke forth with guffaws and irrepressible smiles.Really, Anansi Boys may be the first thing I've read from Neil Gaiman that I liked.
And I'm certain they'll want to do similar things with the book.Anansi Boys is at all times funny, adventurous, and charming.
It would be an all time tragedy to have wasted hours reading Donald Miller when there is something like Anansi Boys out there.
It is true that anyone who has read American Gods or heard traditional African folktales will have met Anansi before, but even here the story emphasizes the cultural distinctiveness of the Caribbean island where this Anansi lives without employing heavy racial signifiers.
- and the white characters are identified as such.) At first I thought it was odd, then really interesting and a thoughtful way to put Anansi and his fellow gods on equal footing with other cultural myths and legends.
While I still like American Gods better, this is a great read.
(B+) 76% | GoodNotes: Little transition between its real-world first half and its magical second half. Its story gets all wishy-washy at the end.
A lot of audiobooks aren't very good, but this one way great, and really brings out the fact that Anansi stories are meant to be heard.It's recognizable Gaiman stuff, with the fish-out-of-water narrator in a modern fantasy world, with the author sxploring the history and the form of the mythic story, but there's a level of deprecating humor in this book that is lacking in other works by Gaiman.One can catch snips of wit in any of his books.
One of the few Gaiman books that I only gush mildly about, as opposed to gushing enthusiastically. It's a solid book, and it does all the things that makes Gaiman's books great. It's got humor, myth, gravitas, cleverness.... But it simply didn't impress me as much as Neverwhere, Stardust, American Gods, or Coriline. I'm willing to admit that the only reason I don't rank this book as 5 stars is because I'm comparing it to his other books, which are profound and perfect. That's probably unfair of me, but I never claimed to be completely fair.
Anansi Boys by Neil Gaiman blends the best attributes of Gaiman’s extraordinary talent: excellent writing, original storytelling, mythic elements, and confidence. A central theme in the narrative is about confidence and that is also how Gaiman tells the tale, his writing exudes confidence, he writes with a virtuoso’s swagger. Not really taking off where American Gods left off, but neither does it depart from Gaiman’s myth and legends foundations, Anansi Boys sings the song of Fat Charlie, Mr. Nancy’s somewhat estranged son and how he gets his groove back. Very entertaining.
Fat Charlie (his dad gave him the nickname (it's a sore spot)) spent his entire life absolutely mortified by his dad. Of course, everyone's parents are embarrassing. It goes with the territory. The nature of parents is to embarrass merely by existing, just as it is the nature of children of a certain age to cringe with embarrassment Then his dad does the unthinkable - he had the nerve to die. Now Fat Charlie has to go back to America for the first time in years and midway through the funeral - h
Now Fat Charlie has to go back to America for the first time in years and midway through the funeral - he discovers something wholly unexpected and almost equally embarrassing - his dad was a God.
We follow Fat Charlie (Anansi's son) as he becomes immersed into the world of the Gods - from discovering primitive magic to his secret brother.
All the while, he has to deal with the fallout from his dad's embarrassing death.While this book takes place in the same world as American Gods - there is hardly any overlap.
There's a little more cynicism, a little more impatience with an "I've been here before" narrative, and a little more sadness in knowing that I can never immerse myself in adult stories with the same abandon as that 10 year old reading under the catalpa tree.
And the world as it should be is something as close as possible to a catalpa tree as seen through the eyes of a child--a place where anything and everything is possible, because that's where real magic resides.
The web is a fable posing as a detective story posing as an embarrassing coming of age and heartbreak story mixed with fantasy and crime, put in a treasure chest and shipped off to the pirates of the Caribbean, where it decides to change shape and take a chapter's break in the realm of spooky ghost stories, before wrapping up as a social satire on the nature of love and happiness.To be fair, the author added the most accurate and funny description of a monstrous hangover I have ever read, and while letting the reader look like a question mark most of the time, he also makes several of the reader's days by creating laughing-out-loud moments of nonsensical, witty humour in the middle of a comedy which could have the subtitle "the tragedy of the human condition".
Hopefully there will be a movie one day.Anansi Boys is not objectively better than  American Gods, which is indeed great, but I personally enjoy it more and it is my favorite Gaiman book.Quotes:“Daisy looked up at him with the kind of expression that Jesus might have given someone who had just explained that he was probably allergic to bread and fishes, so could He possibly do him a quick chicken salad: there was pity in that expression, along with almost infinite compassion.”“Some hats can only be worn if you’re willing to be jaunty, to set them at an angle and to walk beneath them with a spring in your stride as if you’re only a step away from dancing.
Gaiman uses weird to bring out the humour in his writing with great effect.The weird - Back in yesteryear Tiger (yes, the animal) owned all of the stories, jokes and the moon and stars.
All of this changes when he finds out he has a long-lost brother who calls himself Spider.Spider comes to stay and causes all sorts of havoc, turning Charlie's life upside down in a matter of days.
This time it is Charlie and although Spider is the brother he never knew he had, it is just a quick few days before he never wants to see him again.I do hope my story outline makes no sense as that is how this book proceeds.
I kept intending to write a proper review/ recommendation of ANANSI BOYS, which I read while I was in Australia, but for some reason, every time I sat down to write it, all that came out were words in one syllables, which makes for a lousy book review.
Sample copy of my early blog posts about ANANSI BOYS:This book is good.This book is fast.This book is fun.This book is what it says it is.Which is fun.This book is a good, fast, fun read.I'm just not sure it's going to get any better than that.
I liked this book better than its predecessor, AMERICAN GODS, and you don't need to have read that one in order for this one to make any sense.
A delight (& the first of Gaiman's books that I've read to get the full ***** from me)! It's got that outrageous "Freaky Friday"/Prince and the Pauper narrative; Britishisms a-la Evelyn Waugh; and a peck of Douglas Adams's brand of whimsy (this is infinitely better than Hitchhiker's Guide, & much better than the author's own Stardust AND Neverwhere). It's adorably Beetlejuician!! What's not to like, huh?
Anansi Boys is like a rollercoaster without the loops, very few twists and one that keeps the speed to a minimum.
My god, I've never felt more luke warm towards a book in my life.
The mildly interesting story is of a somewhat relatable modern day slacker coming to grips with his father's and brother's overwhelming personalities as well as a fantasy world he didn't know existed.
I'm tired of stories with modern day slackers bringing their pessimistic cynicisms to a world filled with fantastical lore.
At least with other books of his he can be given the credit of imaginary inventiveness.
Ωραίο βιβλίο, απίστευτα αστείο και ανάλαφρο. Λίγες οι σελίδες του, που διαβάζονται εύκολα σε ένα απόγευμα.
Ναι, ο Gaiman μας μεταφέρει και πάλι στον κόσμο του American Gods όμως εδώ σταματούν οι ομοιότητες στα δύο βιβλία.
Όσο κι αν μου άρεσε το American Gods, το Anansi Boys κέρδισε στα σημεία.
Είναι απίστευτα ανάλαφρο και κεφάτο βιβλίο, το οποίο κυλάει νεράκι.
Η υπόθεση μου άρεσε πολύ, είναι έξυπνη, σπαρταριστή με πλοκή γρήγορη και έξυπνες ανατροπές.
Ο ήρωας είναι σκέτος goofy και αξιολάτρευτος.
Επίσης ναι, έχει και φαντάσματα τα οποία λατρεύω στις ιστορίες.
Όποιος διάβασε το Αmerican gods και δεν του άρεσε, ας μην βιαστεί να απορρίψει το Anansi boys, είναι από τα βιβλία που δεν αφήνεις εύκολα από τα χέρια σου.
What then takes place is a situation where a mortal and his demigod brother are attacked from several different fronts by this immortal, godlike Bird Woman.Oh, and Fat Charlie gets it for another girl but has to rescue his old fiance and her mother from another superpower in the Bahamas where he learns what it means to be a hero, even if he is truly the archetype fool.Overall, a superb urban fantasy with overlapping themes of coming of age, Pandora's Box, the twists and turns of life andhow we all have family members we really want to get away from.
I love Neil Gaiman's Sandman so much that I am desperate to love the rest of his work, but I can't do much more than like it because it's mostly only okay.He deals with all the stuff I love -- mythology, the occult, death, dreams, the urban fantastic -- but he's too tongue-in-cheek.
So if you read this review, Neil, just know that I love you, and I will always read you, and I am constantly looking for that drug-like hit I had the first time I bought a Sandman comic (and yes I am that old) and was blown away by your storytelling.
In retrospect, I suppose it's a good thing that I didn't read any of his books until college - had I been exposed to his work in high school, the result would have been a near-obsession filled with pages of awful fanfiction and an emotional meltdown when I learned that Mr. Gaiman is happily married.
My first Neil Gaiman book was American Gods, and when my roommate (a much more dedicated fan than me) recommended it, she added that although the book was good, Anansi Boys was better.
It is also much more deliberately funny than other Gaiman books: his weird and wonderful British humor always shines through in his work, but it usually feels more accidental.
I think I wanted more Anansi, more of his zaniness, more over-the-top; and the way the characters were drawn up just felt lukewarm.Don't get me wrong: this is not a bad book.
I don't think Neil Gaiman has it in him to write a bad book.
It is a song and dance about family, brothers, myths, stories.
Perhaps, like someone who has grown too old to see fairies or see magic, I'm just through a certain veil where Gaiman's prose works, but I KNOW -- I'm not feeling him the same way some are.
Firmly in my forties, I feel almost obligated to keep reading Gaiman books even though they are past, for me, their expiration date.
But still, every few seasons -- I unavoidably -- reach into the greasy Gaiman bag for another book.
So, periodically, I open his books and try and recreate those first few pages, the first few times.
While not a sequel to his superb American Gods, it shares the title character with that book along with some references to his adventures in that story.
Spider proceeds to turn Charlie's previously dull existence upside down through a series of events that I won't spoil here except to say that, in typical Neil Gaiman fashion, they meet a plethora of incredibly unique and intersting characters during the course of the narrative.
Neil Gaiman is an incredible story teller and this book is another great one.
I really can’t decide if I like Neil Gaiman.
So far I’ve read a few of his books and they are missing something that I just can’t seem to put my finger on.
I think what I’ve come to discover is that this is one of the rare instances that I prefer an authors movies more than the books they write.
So far for Neil Gaimen I’ve decided to wait for the movie.
Mr. Gaiman has the same problem as Terry Pratchet.
It's not a good sign when you're halfway through a book and you realize that if you put down the book and walked away right then and there, and never found out how the book ended, you wouldn't care.
I don't care whether things work out between him and Rosie.
I don't care if he and his brother ever make up.
I wouldn't care if the author ended the book with 'then a bomb exploded and they all died the end'.
I've had this problem with all of Gaiman's books.
The character from the above folktale takes the form of a spider and is the spirit of all knowledge of stories.
This spider--Anansi--often takes the form of a man, and that's where this book begins, with the death of Mr. Nancy, a seemingly carefree and crafty fellow.
When Mr. Nancy dies, Charlie discovers his father was the god, Anansi, whose powers were inherited by his son--not Charlie, though, but Charlie's brother, Spider, whom Charlie never knew existed.
So far so good, with what seemed like a family drama rich in myth with magic unfolding.
I also enjoyed the myths and the twist in the story.
My feelings aren’t directed to the kind people who alerted me to my mistaken belief but it is directed towards those who think  (American Gods, #2) should be listed in the title.PROS: It felt like a visit to the same fictional universe that I loved with the other read.
I enjoyed the writing and the story itself was entertaining.CONS: The characters.
I felt a little removed from the story because of this.LESSONS LEARNED: Do a more in-depth search when checking on a book’s series status and don't prejudge a book based on crap in parenthesis added to the title.
"There was reality and there was reality; and some things were more real than others."Volio bi znati sa koje je planete došao Gaiman, da provjerimo ima li sličnih njemu da mogu svi zajedno dijeliti magiju, koju Gaiman odavno daje svojim čitaocima.
Ovo je jedna od onih knjiga, koja ti se toliko dopadne, koja je tako lijepa i magična da jednostavno ne znaš odakle bi krenuo sa hvalospjevima.
Da li da krenem o braći, polubogovima, ljubavi ili muzici, da li o način kako samo Gaiman uspije pisati ili o humoru kojom knjiga zrači, evo ne bi znao reći .
Znam samo da je ostavila magičan trag na meni kojeg bi volio da ga svi osjete.3.5*
This was my first experience with Gaiman and it was a perfect way for me to recover from a string of books that I did not like at all.
Fat Charlie discovers upon the death of his estranged father that his father was the god Anansi and that Fat Charlie has a brother named Spider who can be summoned by giving a message to any spider he encounters.
Unfortunately, Fat Charlie sends this message and the arrival of Spider and his magic enormously complicates Charlie's life.
Spider interferes with both his fiancé and his job and pulls Charlie into the world of the gods and their conflicts.
Well, that was completely different.The start of this was a little rough going for me.
I had a hard time not wanting to shake Fat Charlie Nancy.
All the time, he seems to live under an ill-fated star.
But one, just ONE moment of going all in makes all the difference.
For suddenly, as an agent of his own actions, albeit not necessarily the most well-advised course of action, the world starts to change and Charlie's life with it.
Trickster gods are always a bit of a pain in the patootie.
Love libraries, it's like beachcombing for books.
This was a fun read.I'm not sure where I got the idea, but I was under the impression that this was a series with American Gods.
The only connection is that Anansi makes an appearance in American Gods, but the books have nothing to do with each other.
And on that note, I will admit that I was a little apprehensive about this one because American Gods was just so-so for me.
Well, Anansi Boys made up for it because this was a thoroughly enjoyable read.With a Father who wears yellow gloves, a green fedora, sings karaoke, and, oh yeah, is a God, Fat Charlie Anasi shares the loss of his father with his newly discovered brother, Spider.
