https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7371.Further_Along_the_Road_Less_Traveled
A friend gave me this book after I told him how much I enjoyed Peck's first book, "The Road Less Traveled"M.
Scott Peck has a very accessible writing style and does a wonderful job bringing out truths behind everyday life that will seem both revolutionary and self-evident at the same time.
The biggest take home messages for me were a) spiritual development is just as important as psychological development (if not more important) and b) although Peck chooses Christianity as the religion that most aligns with his own version of reality, he acknowledges the sanctity of all forms of religion -- his is an accepting brand of Christianity though he warns against the heresy of any religion too uncomfortable with paradox.
Although people generally do not like Further Along the Road Less Traveled as much as its predecessor, I find it just the right book for me as the issues it addresses are far more relevant to the psychological and emotional dimensions of my own life. I think that's the thing about this sort of book; you can't make a judgment call based on others' opinions because their appeal is strongly dependent on how much they touch upon your own issues.
The book is separated into various segments, including discipline, love, growth and religion, and grace.
For example, the section of the book that describes how "love is separateness" rings very true in my life and what I believe I need to have in a loving relationship.
Moreover, the genuine lover always respects and even encourages this separateness and the unique individuality of the beloved.
Genuine love not only respects the individuality of the other but actually seeks to cultivate it, even at the risk of separation or loss.
The ultimate goal of life remains the spiritual growth of the individual, the solitary journey to peaks that can be climbed only alone.
This book is an edited compilation of things Peck said in his lectures in the years after The Road Less Traveled.
In my opinion, more editing would have helped it a lot.
There are even a few annoying spots where Peck refers to something he has previously said or written as though it is evidence for the assertion he is currently making.
Also troubling is the fact that this book has much less psychology in it and, although its purported aim is to convince you to find your own personal religion, Peck hardly lets a page go by without a reference to Jesus.
If you want something to help you keep learning the way you did from the first book...
Most "disorders" are "psychosomatic." Apparently, even including cancer. Although I find it so hard to believe he actually said that, I can't convince myself I actually heard it on this audiobook. But he covers himself by saying not all cancers, but he seems to be saying most. Got cancer? Become spiritual and your odds of getting cured increase many times over. He just seems like a snake oil salesman to me. Typical is that he uses some science knowledge mixed in with absurdities.
I love Scott Peck! This book examines spirituality as an important part of overall human and society development, looks at necessity of pain in life, importance of death, true forgiveness, sexuality and the New Age movement. Scott's psychiatric/spiritual method of examining life and humans resonates with the way I perceive the world so it was a highly engaging and thought provoking read.
A great continuation to Dr. Scott's Road less traveled.
A continuation of The road less traveled.. Positive, inspiring and educational.
A valuable read. A rare voice for a reasonable appreciation of science where it is good, and of spirituality also where it is good, when it comes to our mental health and well being.
Martha, Central patron, July 2016, 5 stars:Having read The Road Less Traveled: A New Psychology of Love, Traditional Values, and Spiritual Growth years ago and People of the Lie: The Hope for Healing Human Evil quite recently, I found Further Along a fascinating account of Peck's integration of psychiatric reflection and Christian faith. His categories of spiritual development as well as his discussion of evil were quite helpful to me, and his writing style is accessible.
Based on a “trusted” source that I now don’t recall, late last year I committed myself to reading The Road Less Traveled.
That title was written in 1978 and while I thought that was the book I ordered on line, the one that arrived was this book, Further Along the Road less Traveled.Let’s just say, I’ll not be going back down the road to read the original.
What I would like is to go back and recalling where the recommendation for this read came from so I could adjust the recommendation meter from “trusted” to “untrustworthy.”
Pathetic compared the the 5 star first book.
I found the following to the be the most important:1.
The four stages of spiritual development 2.
We need to think about dying more3.
AA is a good program and can be used more broadly 4.
Science and spirituality can work together5.
The four stages of spiritual development I had already skimmed the first book, so I can't say if this wasn't as good.
I was fascinated with his stages.
I've come across other stages / theories of development, but his is the best framework.
It certainly doesn't explain every thing but is a good start.
Exactly what the title says it is in a few aspects. 1) it's a continuation "Further Along The Road Less Traveled" of the authors personal growth and research that leads to new ideals and beliefs, and cements others from the previous book. 2) The subtitle is, "The unending journey towards spiritual growth" - And it is exactly that. I was able to further my growth through this book, learn new things, and further understand how much further I can go! Great read.. Absolutely recommend this and number 1. Great pair.
This books definition of life is truly amazing:it matches Whitman's ideology that death is a new life.Peck is a master-mind at what he calls "psycho-theology".He further explains that God is ever present through each life form and how deep he goes into the life of a man is crazy. He explains how God was involved in his life as well as his teachings and how he was influenced by him. His personal experiences with God and life caused him to have a deep understanding of who God is and what he truly represents.
Psychology or really self-help for the spiritual road and growth. The book is interesting but it is not a great book for me. It has some interesting information and ideas in it but others have been along some of the paths with more interesting and more in depth work.It is a book that one interested in popular psychology should enjoy.J. Robert Ewbank author "John Wesley, Natural Man, and the 'Isms'"
I thought since I'd read his first book, I might as well read the follow-up. I like the author's laid-back writing style and his mishmash of philosophies. He's Christian, but with a Buddhist bent and is open to anything, really, that works. While this was interesting while I was reading it, I honestly can't remember much now that I'm done. It all made sense but wasn't really a mind-blowing revelation.
so i just finished 'further along the road..' and i personally think its amazing,the way of writier to express his own spiritual growth..though i think many points have been cleared its common among people who are missing solid faith grounds i was kinda bothered that the messege was unclear towards chirstinaity,maybe this book is directed more to them rather than any other religion. again it was the writer own expiernce towards god and it felt really good actually.
A disappointing read. I was wowed by "The Road Less Traveled" and could not wait to get my hang on the #2 sequel but alas, the incoherence of the main ideas as well as his skewed subjective thoughts succeeded in turning me off. Alas, I had hoped to gain more insights from an objective keen observer of human nature instead I got ramblings of religious frustrations and personal grievances of a troubled psychiatrist.
This book along with "How to Win Friends and Influence People" are not my favored style of reading but I have vowed to read them. Apparently they are two of the most famous motivational books since the 80's.
"...change our human nature is not easy, but it is possible..." and a little bit further he writes: " ...our reality is still a paradoxe even now after studies about light, energy, magnetism and quantique mechanic."
peeking into our own selves is always the most scary and the most rewarding. i thought his chapter on religion was a bore, but the rest really helped me take one ugly look at myself and those around me. i was very impressed with it.
Interesting read. The four stages of spiritual growth make sense. Puzzling how Peck became Christian after writing "The Road Less Traveled". I didn't catch the keys to his conversion. It seems out of sync with the four stages.
I am a great Scott Peck fan, but I did not find this book added much to what Peck had already wrote. While it is encouraging to see him integrate psychology and spirituality, and as always his writing is personal and authentic, I did not find many insights here.
bom livro do scott peck, mais focado em deus e espiritualidade. belo, me deu uma vontade danada de recomeçar a terapia :-) mas, do mesmo autor, ainda prefiro a trilha menos percorrida, livro tão marcante, lindo, impactante e motivador!
I read this book to do a book report for the Hypnotherapy certification class I am taking...not a book I would have picked unless someone told me to read it! It was a good read and am grateful for the assignment (one of 14 book reports!)
I was surprised how good the book is. I hate that kind if literature and began to read it out of boredom but liked it more and more with every page. It's not perfect thou the religious crap was too much for me but you can skip some parts and still enjoy it.
And when you thought he had it all covered, he begins the Zen practice and is converted to Christianity. He is in the unique position of illuminated secular, anti-, and Christian beliefs and theology. . . quite nicely thank you.
I found myself very annoyed reading through the first 1/4 of this book. The author repeatedly referred to previous books he wrote. What was the point of this book then? To regurgitate everything that made him money before? I couldn't get through it.
This is a continuation of M. Scott Peck's Road Less Traveled. It says similar things, with a few new thoughts and new twists with experiences that he went through since the Road Less Traveled. A Great read.
