https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11570.Dreamcatcher
Dream catcher, Stephen KingDreamcatcher (2001) is a novel by American writer Stephen King, featuring elements of body horror, suspense and alien invasion.
The book, written in cursive, helped the author recuperate from a 1999 car accident, and was completed in half a year.
According to the author in his afterword, the working title was Cancer.
His wife, Tabitha King, persuaded him to change the title.
نقل از متن: همین لرزش مرا استوار نگه میدارد.
باید بدانم.
آنچه ناپدید میشود، همیشگی است، و نزدیک، به روی خواب، چشم گشودم، به کندی، با رفتن به جاییکه باید بروم، میآموزم.
پایان نقل.
so I had a dream last night where Graham and Brian and Steve and I were all back in Seattle, and it was like it was before, four friends who were different from each other but still really connected, like brothers, and we were having adventures and serious talks and stupid talks and good times and bad times and it was all just so sweet and real, like things had never changed.
I found myself wishing that this was a different book, one that wasn't a novel about an alien invasion but was instead all about these four friends, their histories and their futures, their annual hunting trips where they could be their true selves.
But then again, at some parts, it left me feeling miserable and asking myself if I was ever going to finish it, so because of that, the other part of me think that it deserves only 2 stars.
I absolutely loved the way it ended, and how everything came together.When it comes to characters, just like in any other King's work, they were my favorite part of this book (well, at least some of them were).
If his character was removed from the story I don't think that anything important in the plot would change.In the end, even though this book made me question my sanity a few times, I'm still glad that I've read it.
Personally, I'm a little sick of it.Thankfully, you don't have to give up good writing in order to enjoy action-oriented, heavily plotted suspense fiction-consider the truly wonderful series of carefully constructed books by Lincoln Child and Douglas Preston or Dan Brown's DaVinci Code.Meanwhile, I'm giving this book one star because that's the lowest rating you can give; in reality, it shouldn't even show up on the scale.
Not only spoilers for this book, but for all of King's work.
I believe that the aliens in Dreamcatcher and The Tommyknockers, the Grays, are creatures from the Prim, and that Pennywise is of the same species.
I believe the reason Pennywise was able to survive as long as he did is because he created his own environment down in the sewers, his own ecosystem, much like the Grays in The Tommyknockers.
(hide spoiler)]In summation: Not the worst Stephen King book in existence, but Dreamcatcher is easily numero dos.
But here, we have two different men use the term "rape" to describe the violation of their minds, and both times it's just kind of glossed over and the method of dealing with it is to ignore it and pretend that it didn't happen.
Because, while I know that there were no other cases exactly like his - he was in fact NOT the only one to have been violated in that way, and he KNOWS he was not.
So technically, everyone who had their minds "read" in this book was violated - raped, if you will.
Sorry sorry sorry but I just couldnt'get thru this story and didn't get to liking it. Should I try again? Nah, too many good books waiting for me. Haven't gone past 40 pages or so. Maybe when the movie is on tv I'll try it again....
Anyone who wants to read this book must be prepared for sleepless nights and illusions.
By the end I love how the last few pages are devoted to explaining things and making eveything clear.
I feel that Stephen King wrote this book to explain we're all in a dream, and it's got us in this hold that we can't let go of.
At first I thought there was a lot of "fluff" and unnecessary details but I realize the book is the perfect amount of pages to tell the story that Stephen King wanted to convey.
I appreciated King's grand vision for this story, and the novel started off in a grand manner. However, along the way, things became a bit jumbled and confusing at times. I liked the book as a whole, but it could have benefited from some editing. I really feel like DREAMCATCHER marked the beginning of a drop off in the consistent success of King's writing. It seems to me that he had more "misses" than "hits" beyond 2003.
Things like twice calling Duddits a "tribble", which is a reference to Star Trek, or like the red growth that is very reminiscent of the mossy red flora from 'The War of the Worlds' by H.G. Wells (and speaking of, Dean Koontz borrowed the idea for his semi-recentish book 'The Taking'), or the "Turn the dial up to 11" line from the movie "This is Spinal Tap".
I love the way King describes Beaver, and shows us his general character in three sentences: "His glasses started to unfog then, and he saw the stranger on the couch.
The good news is, Dreamcatcher is not just a rehash of It. The bad news is it's a rehash of The Tommyknockers, too, which is perhaps my least favorite of all of King's works.All right, maybe that's not quite fair.
But in Dreamcatcher, it doesn't feel like King's using similar elements.
It feels like he's telling the same stories, albeit in bits and pieces and mixed around some.
That's how Dreamcatcher felt to me: right pieces, wrong place.King is an amazing storyteller; he always has been.
Just saying I can understand considering there were some issues that tested my patience.
First of all, this story is all over the place and I can see where a reader might get tired of trying to follow the threads (or the strings of the dreamcatcher).
As for me, I managed to stay on course ( I suspect I may have had some help from Duddits) and in the long run (a very long run) I found the story to be entertaining.
Maybe it's my age, but I'm not too much into the farting scenarios in recent literature.
Un buen libro de King con momentos ridículos y otros conmovedores. Personalmente, toda la parte militar no me gustó en absoluto. Prefería leer mucho más sobre la infancia de los protagonistas. De todas formas, lo recomiendo, aunque no es lo mejor de King.
A group of friends on their yearly hunting trip stumble on an alien crash coverup in the Derry woods.
Dreamcatcher had so much potential to be a great King, during the time of writing he was taking painkillers after recuperating from a car accident.
It explains why this novel is slightest misguided and in a way I’m more forgiving that it’s quite muddled.Douglas "Duddits" Cavell, a down syndrome boy typifies this the most.The first half of the novel is truly great, there’s some really good set up.The body horror is great, especially the bathroom scenes are truly horrific.It’s by no means a bad novel but it took me a while to get through this one, it’s more of a frustration that with a great concept it ends up misfiring.
'You want to see Tina Jean Schlossinger's pussy?'”I have gotten to accept writing a review for an author as popular as SK is little like illegal Human Trafficking with words.
Hmm, Julian Assange, Stephen Hawking, Frank Drake, Olbers' paradox, Edward Snowden, Roger Penrose have all commented and contributed to the glossy list which can extend well beyond our up-to-date glossary of newly discovered venereal diseases.'Fuck the Tigers,' Pete breaks in.Interplanetary research or ethics now lacking in find of Non-Phosphorous life formation can be a cut both ways for any Intelligent Design Classification.
It took me eleven days to finish this 882-page of a beast, and I savored the amazing experience!Dreamcatcher is one of Stephen King's most hated books; almost everyone who's read it tells me to stir away from it, that it's a piece of sh-tty writing .
Although the Alien storyline was strong, I was more captivated with the friendship-line of the story.
With this book, Stephen King's first fully-length novel after the accident which almost got him killed, you could feel and taste his pain, struggling through physical and mental distress, his anger, but also the sense of not letting go and 'staying on the line'.
I like the layers, worlds within worlds, guys building rooms… hell, whole hospital wings inside their minds, walling off the bad guys, rampant telepathy where everyone can step (sometimes effortlessly-sometimes not) from one person’s thoughts to another’s.
He’s not one of King’s strongest characters, but I like what he represents and how, more and more, he works his way into the center of the story Even when he’s been long neglected he’s there and ready to help.
What didn’t I like?
They had good back-stories, but they sure didn’t hold my interest.
I made the mistake of watching the film version of Dreamcatcher before reading the novel and for years, whilst browsing the shelves of second hand book stores and charity shops, my eyes would register the presence of Dreamcatcher but i never considered picking it up.
A confused stranger, looking deathly ill, enters the camp spouting nonsense about lights in the sky and what follows is an excellent Alien Invasion story done in the classic Stephen King style.There is a slight similarity to IT in that the four friends are linked by an heroic act from their childhood and are required to retell and flashback to it years later but i preferred this to IT.
In this book, he takes a cheesy overdone concept (alien/body snatchers) and makes it work.This isn't the best King book, but it is far from being his worst.
I didn't have hugely high expectations other than being able to chuckle everytime somebody said "shit weasels", but I was pleasantly surprised.I saw the movie a few times, and while I enjoyed it, this wasn't something that should have won any Oscars.
Now, despite all my misgivings, which compiled to keep me from reading this book for the first eight years of its existence, I wanted to knock it out and work towards my goal of completing Stephen King's library.I loved this book!
A Magic Retard (Stephen King's go-to character when the Magic Negro is busy).
This may be the stupidest book King has ever written, and that's saying something.
It's FUN!
"Insomnia" wasn't fun.
It just sucked.
"Desperation" just sucked.
"Dreamcatcher" is a different beastie altogether: “You could only compare it to farts because there was nothing else even close.” Thank you, Stephen King, thank you for showing those National Book Award snobs the way.
It's a wretched novel, and King should be ashamed of himself for writing it.
So bad I wanted to burn my copy so that no one else would have to read it. Seriously. Farts and creatures entering the world from a person's 'back door' do not a good horror novel make. The first time this happens in the book I actually laughed aloud. Use the book as a paperweight, a doorstop, or a teething toy for your dog. Just don't bother trying to read it.

Fast zwei Wochen habe ich nun mit diesem Buch verbracht und es ist mir in der Zeit richtig ans Herz gewachsen. Schon lange habe ich mich durch eine Geschichte nicht mehr so emotional berührt gefühlt. Ich habe mit den Charakteren gelitten, um sie gebangt und leider auch um sie getrauert. Stephen King hat es wirklich geschafft mich nach längerer King-Abstinenz (abgesehen von ein paar Kurzgeschichten) zu überzeugen und Duddits der die Scooby Doo Titelmelodie sing wird für mich immer eine der berührendsten Szenen aller Zeiten bleiben.
King once again impresses. Enjoyed this immensely when I read it. It is horror cross sci fi and the image of Mr Gray remains in my mind until this day as well as the disgusting and shocking s**t weasels.
It took seven months, but welcome to my first 1 star read of 2018! So much nope.
I tend to re-read and savor the books later, but the first reading is like a "fix" I have been Jonesing for, so taking my time is not really an option.
Yes, I giggled through the horrendous gas and "birthing" of the poop weasels, but once I got over that I really enjoyed this densely layered book.I always love when King writes about aliens.
Our four hunting friends end with the fate of the world, literally, in their hands with the help of thier very, very special fifth friend from childhood.One of the effects of close proximity to the aliens is ESP.
This was an excellent read.I've said it before, and I'm sure I'll say it again: my favorite part of Stephen King's writing is his flawless character development.
I love that throughout all the action going on in the story's present-day, Stephen King takes the time to really make you understand what it is that makes their friendship so special.
Of all of his books that I've read, this one is pretty gross.
I found myself getting sucked into the story for hundreds of pages at a time, though.
I felt myself getting stressed out because I HAD to know what was going to happen and I felt like I couldn't read fast enough to get there.
...real rating TBD. When I'm feeling less lazy and sit to think about it.
I have been a fan of Stephen King since my brother Scott recommended the Dark Tower series to me. My wife knows to check the thrift stores that she frequents for King novels, and “Dreamcatcher” was one that she found. I didn’t know anything about the story, but sat down to begin reading a week and a half ago or so. The story is about an alien invasion, and that was enough to get my interest. Although there are many aspects involved, including four friends caught in the middle of it, the militar
Although there are many aspects involved, including four friends caught in the middle of it, the military cleanup, conflicts between the soldiers and their questionable orders, and many memories and flashbacks, the real story is about a Down syndrome man named Duddits who changes everything.
This is the first King novel that came close to bringing me to tears, and his ability to make his reader really like and care about poor Duddits is excellent.
I also thought that Duddits was a brilliant part of the story, and King does a good job of getting his reader to care for him.
Tέλειωσα άλλο ένα από τα βιβλία του συγγραφέα.
Θα με πείτε γραφική ή κολλημένη μαζί του.
Αγαπώ τα συναισθήματα που μου προκαλεί, Αγαπώ την πρωτοτυπία του, παρόλο που έχει γράψει τόσα πολλά.
Και ξέρω ότι υπάρχουν αναγνώστες που τον διάβασαν και δεν τους άρεσε.
Σεβαστό κι αυτό, αν και θα ήθελα να μου εξηγήσουν τι ακριβώς δεν τους αρέσει.
Και τώρα στο συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο.
Μου άρεσε πάρα πολύ.
Είναι αυτό που λέμε χορταστικό.
Κάθε σειρά ξεχειλίζει από τα παραπάνω.
Οι περιγραφές του κινηματογραφικές.
Δεν κάνεις προσπάθεια να φανταστείς τις σκηνές, σου τις δίνει στο πιάτο.
Μοναδικός σε αυτό.Για όλα τα παραπάνω, διαβάστε το!!!!!!
