https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/547149.Sherman
This classic biography is important in three ways. First, it is simply an excellent portrayal of a great man's life. Second, it is a powerful corrective to the unfair popular perspectives on Sherman that are often taught at the high-school level. And third, it marks the beginning of BH Liddell's developing ideas on strategic concepts like proceeding along the line of least expectation and maintaining flexibility of options. Terrific biography, one of the best I've read.
"Sherman" was really a pleasure to read; Liddell Hart highlights a controversial and fascinating general with perspicacity and brevity.
Perhaps the most prescient general of the war, Sherman and his titular march are rightly legendary.
Liddell Hart charts Sherman's evolution of thought leading to that fateful course, while inserting some of his own strategic theories.
That military background however allows Liddell Hart to do an excellent job of explaining not just what happened but why the respective parties made the decisions they did, none more clearly than Sherman.A cynic of politicians and journalists alike, loyal to an absolute point, Sherman is truly a fascinating character and this is a worthy portrayal.
But Sherman is the man.
The book was a real page-turner for me and has become a favourite.
I had the book for a while now, but was wary of reading it ...
I read it with some Civil War maps from Wikipedia.
If you read about him from the Wikipedia pages, you are going to misunderstand him as his contemporaries did.
Read the book and understand his motivation.
As Liddell Hart pointed out, the significance of his leadership is more obvious after World War 1 where the war did not produce a second Sherman.
Great bookOutstanding in understanding the General and the man behind the brutal campaign against the south , the march through Georgia and the Carolinas , highly recommend to students of history
Surprisingly positive view of Hood, everything else I've ever read has him as a grade A scumbag for the smear campaign he ran to get Johnston's job, followed up with the idiocy of attacking an entrenched Thomas.
This is not BLH's view: He seemed to think part of the reason Sherman cut loose and lived off the land because Sherman felt Hood was too unpredictable to catch.
So much for that "Southron Honor" garbage, assuming BLH is correct.Lee was a complete nonentity in this work, which actually makes a great deal of sense given that Lee was a master tactician and a moronic grand strategist, who seemingly couldn't see beyond the borders of Virginia.
In "Team of Rivals", I never picked up on the fact the Lincoln and his administration thought they were going to lose the 1864 election; because the country was losing heart while Grant bludgeoned his army against Lee in Virginia.
then, Sherman captured Atlanta and Lincoln's re-election was assured.
People generally recognize Lee's surrender to Grant at Appomattox as the end of the civil War, however, the south didn't capitulate until Johnston surrendered to Sherman several weeks later.
Sherman's biggest concern was that by following Stanton's orders (in the aftermath of Lincoln's assassination), that Johnston's army would melt away and begin guerrilla actions.
Now, I need a book on Grant.
A powerful biography, particularly of Sherman's military accomplishments and the intellectual development of his strategic thinking.
Liddell Hart's examinations of the American political scene, particularly after the Civil War had ended and Reconstruction had begun, seem tacked on, and are shallow enough, and outdated enough, to make it almost worth skipping the Epilogue, but it's worth proceeding, with some caution, for the final details of Sherman's life, and the overall relationship that Sherman maintained with Grant.
Sherman's hostility towards political office is also worth seeing through.
He was frequently fairly witty on the subject, and his desire to avoid what to Sherman appeared to have been a singularly unpleasant experience for Grant is admirable.
It is equal parts due to the greatness of the man himself and to Hart's vivid and engrossing portrait.
There is a stunningly profound quote from Hart in the book that I'll paraphrase here that defines his genius: Sherman's success was rooted in his grasp that the way to success is strategically along the line of least expectation and tactically along the line of least resistance.
It is that kind of thinking that immediately displaces any preceding notions about Sherman's reputation as a general or a legend.
There is much to learn from the man and this biographer--who himself was a great strategist and mind."
This was my first book on the civil war, and while it can get dense, the details allow you to follow Sherman on his quest.
The way that he divides his army and removes all excess equipment from the troops to continually make them leaner and faster is amazing.
His march was a stroke of genius, and his way of picking multiple objectives and moving his army back and forth, see sawing between them to keep the enemy from committing to either was another stroke of genius.
A definite read for one who like history, strategy, or just studying those people who are able to think creatively and independently on their feet.
Sherman is presented as a man who is a flawed hero. He makes both brilliant choices and tragic mistakes. The best example of the respect people had for him was when Joe Johnston, Sherman's opponent on the way to Atlanta, stood with his hat off in the rain as Sherman's funeral. When it was suggested that he put his hat back on Johnston replied, "He would do the same for me." Johnston died shortly afterwards of pneumonia.
Really did like this book although not as much as Liddell Hart liked Sherman. He ignores some big mistakes that Sherman made during the war. That shouldn't detract from Sherman's accomplishments but they should be acknowledged.
Hart's best book he ever wrote.
The cure for anything is salt water: sweat, tears or the Confederacy
