https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61940.Damia_s_Children
I so, SO loved this book!I have loved every one of Ms McCaffrey's books that I've read so far! I really enjoy revisiting this series. I enjoy watching the Gwyn-Raven clan, and all their subgroups, as they progress in life. Learning how the children grow up and how their parents and grandparents deal with the issues of parenting "special" children.
In many ways this seems like two books in one. There's a big gap between Damia and Damia's children - about 15 years - so you lose a little of the rapport you had with the original Tower characters (Jeff Raven, the Rowan, Damia and Afra) as now they're seen from the children's viewpoint, but seeing each of the children find their own place to use their Talent makes up for it. The lack of focus on one character (necessary, for following all the children) does lessen my connection to them.
I love this series and have read it numerous times over the years.
This time I listened to the audiobook and loved it.
Fantasy, Space adventures, aliens, romance, family; this series has a lot in it worthy of reading or listening to.
I point out that McCaffrey wrote scifi, fantasy, and romance, with these novels there are some with more scifi and some with more fantasy or romance elements-I don't think this detracts from the story's or enjoyment of such.Those readers who simply wish an enjoyable reading experience with fun characters and adventures in space and on land read, read, read!!
I am really enjoying this series! Good old-fashioned sci-fi.
I'm very glad I'm reading these through (after probably 30 years since I first read them), and I'm starting to think that it's quite possible I'll work my way through them all again (definitely the Pern ones and this series) in another 20 or 30 years.McCaffrey gives me people I like, with interesting and often earnest characters.
I meet plenty of real people in my real life so I don't need all my books to be equally blunt or ordinary or whatever.As the title suggests, this book is about (some of) Damia's children.
Continuing with the author-is-dead re-read of this series.
Not that the author is literally dead — though in this case, she is — but in the sense that it's more interesting to read this series in a way that the author maybe didn't intend.
In this case, we see a little bit of Damia, the tempestuous heroine from the last book, but this book is mostly about her first four children.
We get novellas about Laria and Thian, the first half of a short novel about Rojer, and a short story about Zara.
Admittedly, this applies more to the Rojer thread than the stories of Laria, Thian, and Zara.
Damia's children is the third book in a series about a telepathic family and a very slow moving war with a beetle like people, who have a hive mentality.
By now we have moved into the third generation of this family.
Damia's children does however move along a bit faster and has much more action than the other two, but it is still pretty slow.
There are two more books in this series and I will read them, probably pretty soon, but I am going to take a break for a little while and read something a bit more fast paced.
In Damia's Children, one of science fiction and fantasy's most beloved novelists, Anne McCaffrey, continues the story of psychic Talent begun with The Rowan and Damia.
The Rowan's next generation of passionate and talented descendants prepare to defend their worlds against an alien attack of mysterious origin.Damia had deflected a previous attack on the human worlds and sent the aliens into deep space.
Hungry for more living space, they return with plans to dominate, armed with knowledge of the psychic defense they can expect from humanity.However, as it has been learned that Talent can be both bred and taught, the combined abilities of Damia's children make them an even greater power than Damia or her mother.
I wanted to like this, as it is a return to my genre sci-fi roots, but I found this particular work quite disappointing.It's not really a book, more like 3-4 novellas strung together without any overarching point. I tossed this book while in jr. high, because I thought I had the "villain" in the second story figured out, but it turns out I was wrong... although the person it turned out to be, and the way the situation was resolved was trite and VERY easy to accomplish.Definitely a "quantity" read, not a "quality" read.
Re-reading all my Anne McCaffrey books. The first two titles in this series are the best--I think because each has a love story/deep emotional connection between two people. When it starts to break off into the 3rd generation's kids, and just follows their lives, I started to lose interest. Doesn't help that it's very very sci-fi, with tons of technical ship info and an insect-like invading alien. I'll get through the series, and then they're getting donated to the library.
I've probably read all of these books at least 3 times before but I had forgotten most of the plot lines which is making this an enjoyable "first read" again.McCaffrey is at her sexist, dubious best in this series.
I can see her point, these children are dangerous after all, but it's quite hard to read at times.
Every character is a caricature and whilst it makes for quick, light reading - it's not very meaty!(view spoiler)[This book introduces the Mrdini race in detail and their introduction to the story fills a big void as the "pacifist" humans needed a kick to get themselves to treat the Hivers seriously.
(hide spoiler)]A fun read, but not your true Sci Fi!
The third book in McCaffrey's Tower series focuses on the adventures of some of Damia's children (she's been quite prolific).
The Dini, an alien species, have joined up with the humans to fight the "Hive" race and several children have been reared together with infant Dini to help bridge the gap, especially the language gap, between the two races.
Damia's children are part of that group.The stories are quite as good as the first two, but without as much angst.
In one scene, one of the characters "ports" a captain from a Dini ship to a human ship.
In the next scene the Dini skipper is quite surprised to find a "Talent" aboard the human ship.
Rather than pseodo-biographies of the title characters, this book is a series of novellas focusing of four of Damia's children.
Rather than giving us a long, dull slog, this book gives us four snappy, shorter stories, forming an actual narrative arc.
Because the subject matter is generally lighter and fast, the book projects a far lighter and sprightly feel than the earlier volumes.
Very little feels unnecessarily padded, events all seem reasonable, and everyone gets some chance to show off their cleverness.
If you've gotten this far in the series, you'll find this title easy going.
Continuing story, probably requires book 2 to understand context. This book keeps the story going of interacting with friendly and inscrutable/expanding aliens. This book and book 4 gives glimmers of interesting conundrums of how to handle interspecies contact, and human/alien morality problems.I don't own book 5 though, and reviews make me think that those problems aren't well explored in it, so... I'm going to stop this adventure with book 4.
I know I've read this several times over the years. I have no clue how many times though lol
My favorite of the series so far, perhaps partly because it stays more focused on the science fiction. Each of the children adds different experiences and perspectives.
Damia's children are growing into their power and must find their own way in life away from their powerfully talented parents.
Years ago, I met Ms. McCaffrey at a Seattle bookstore and she signed my copy of Damia. I must admit, I was a bigger fan of the Dragonrider's of Pern series, but these are fun, escapist fare as well.
Love Anne McCaffrey!As always Anne doesn't disappoint. Although I still prefer the dragonrider books this was also a good book from a good series.
Another favorite seriesAs much as I love the Dragons of Pern , I also love this series too. FT&T are wonderful compelling stories and following the generations is fun.
There was a Mrdini scout present when in the first book, the mind merge of all the Talents destroyed the enormous Hiver sphere.
When the Mrdini battle a Hiver sphere, it takes many, many lives and ships to defeat it.
Afra and Damia have a lot of children, and as the eldest, Laria is now ready to go to Clarf, the Mrdini homeworld, and be their Tower Prime.
But when they capture an escape pod with a life Queen in it, there is a lot of controversy, both on the human worlds and on the Mrdini worlds.
Laria, Thian, Rojer and Zara will play their parts in the ongoing search for more Hivers and the Hive home world, so that a way can be found to contain the Hivers and keep them away from human and Mrdini planets.Revisiting this story 20 years later made me realize I hadn’t forgotten much.
Rojer follows about a year later by joining another ship and at the end of the book Zara pulls a stunt reminiscent of Damia when she was a child, but she does manage to figure out why the captured Queen appears to be dying.
This book is chock full with information about Damia and Afra’s children, especially the older ones and how they’re maturing and helping FT&T.

I don't remember any details of what I thought about these books when I read them back in college but I remember that I liked them fine.
I still like them but I find the characters odd.Having read so much YA now, I find these teenagers to be more grown up than I think grown ups are for the most part.
This is more like 4 stories in one book but at least the latter 3 are all interconnected.
I remember it as an awesome story that I really enjoyed.
I enjoyed it but it isn't what I remembered.
Another great book by Anne McCaffrey, full of great female characters. In all of McCaffreys books, women are the equal, and sometimes the better, of men. Quite capable of being in charge of space stations, naval ships and homes, her writing doesn't make men weak either. She just writes her worlds as if it's normal and natural for both sexes to be on the same footing.
From Publishers Weekly Here McCaffrey introduces another generation in her saga of a family of powerful psionic Talents ( The Rowan and Damia ) raised to serve the Nine Star League. The eight children of Damia and Afra Raven-Lyon approach the threshold of maturity on Iota Aurogae, where they have been raised with young Mrdinis, the only other intelligent life that humankind has encountered--save for the pernicious Hive Culture, which has sought to destroy all other species in its drive to expan
The eight children of Damia and Afra Raven-Lyon approach the threshold of maturity on Iota Aurogae, where they have been raised with young Mrdinis, the only other intelligent life that humankind has encountered--save for the pernicious Hive Culture, which has sought to destroy all other species in its drive to expand through the universe.
The eldest teenager, Laria, is sent to the homeworld of the Mrdinis to improve relations between the two species.
Thian, the oldest boy, encounters residual human prejudice and almost loses his life when he serves as liaison with a mixed human-Mrdini fleet
More enjoyable than I expected after reading the other reviews on here.
I remember enjoying it the first time I read it.
Whatever AM conceivably lacks in literary style, she more than makes up for with imagination, plot, and her facility for creating individual, interesting characters quickly through little more than mental and verbal dialogue.
The kids are all rich in personality and flaws and unique skills.
I always loved the way AM represented the unique, special members of her imagined cultures.
Makes me feel a little special reading about them too.
The continuing saga of the Rowan & Jeff Raven, their daughter and son-in-law, Damia and Afra Lyon, and Damia's 5(?) children, Laria, Thian, Peter, Xara, and Petra.
(I think there's two more, but I can't remember their names.) This family heads the FT&T (Federal Teleport & Telepath) in a futuristic setting.
All have psychic talent which they use to make interstellar travel possible in the blink of an eye.
This book details their newly discovered alien friends, the Mrdini, and the continuing efforts to exterminate the Hivers, space insects with death on their minds.
This is the 3rd book in a series of 5.
I enjoyed this book much better then the previous two, being not so much romance driven as family driven.
There was also the interesting interaction of the dinis and there cultural subject which was fascinating.
The story was split up between the different children(or at least the oldest among them) of the books previously made couple and most of them were fairly good.
I will say that rather there being a plot to the book, it's more like a compilation of a bunch of subplots(one or two for each child) that happened in the same time period.
After Damia this book was a bit of a let down as Damia and Afra are hardly mentioned.
I still enjoyed it but it is not as strong as the previous book.For those who like spaceships they will love this book as they feature heavily.
As can be expected the main focus is on Damia's children.
It can be seen as 4 linked stories so at times it is frustrating as just as you are getting into it the focus of the story changes to another of the children.It is a good follow up in terms of the overall story of the Hive species with many revelations about them in the book.
