https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/357727.Cold_Hand_in_Mine
Whereas the Master specialized in a few settings (the ancient English cathedral or university town, the rare book auction or library, the academic gentleman's holiday trip, etc.), Aickman is an expert at creating a wealth of distinct settings which he articulates with precision in order to elicit distinctive and disturbing atmospheres.
The atmosphere of each of these tale rings true, and suggests a wealth of ancillary themes, but Aickman, although he develops his themes expertly, never loses track of his central duty: to dismay and disturb, to frighten and appall.Some devotees of the classic ghost story may be disappointed by his denouements, for often his hauntings are vague, his endings inconclusive and puzzling.
his stories were multi-leveled: they existed as menacing tales of horror - but they were also ambiguous, psychologically adept metaphors and analogies for life in all of its strange, unsettling complexity.
mysterious events are continuously detailed that have little internal logic but which make perfect thematic sense.a last word on the story Pages from a Young Girl's Journal.
this is in many ways an atypical Aickman tale - a journal account of a young lady's travels abroad, encountering a mysterious stranger, embracing his vampiric nature, becoming something new and terrible.
the story's horrors are clearly delineated; the reader is made to understand exactly what is happening.
1. "Mačevi" - 52. "Pravi put ka crkvi" - 3.53. "Niemandswasser" - 34. "Stranice iz dnevnika jedne mlade devojke" - 55. "Konačište" - 46. "Isti taj pas" - 3.257. "Upoznati gospodina Milara" - 3.58. "Čuvar časovnika" - 3.5
Robert Aickman's term for his stories is "strange," and indeed they are, but I tend to think of them as "disquieting." His fiction takes me places that are not merely macabre or frightening; I find myself as adrift as his characters, not quite sure what is real.
Anyone who has rowed a small boat over an expanse of cold, dark, deep water will feel the pull of this somewhat fanciful tale, set in Austria before the first world war.
As previously mentioned, there are touches of Dinesen-like grotesqueness, but most of Aickman's effect is achieved very quietly.
Pored priče "Mačevi", iz koje je izvučen naslov, knjiga broji ukupno osam priča.Zajednički element koji objedinjuje priče u celinu jeste opisivanje osoba za koje se do kraja ne zna pripadaju li svetu živih ili mrtvih, te pobližem opisivanju i predstavljanju duhova kao element jezovitosti.
Ništa manje zanimljivo jeste i dramsko vreme, koje je najčešće smešteno oko ratova ili neposredno po njihovom završetku.O Ejkmanu nisam ništa znala dok nisam počela da čitam ove priče i umnogome mi je pomogla kratka biografija u razumevanju napisanog.
Ipak, motiv koji se provlači kroz priče jeste motiv ljubavi, čežnja za ljubavlju i čežnja za razumevanjem i prihvaćenosti.
You enter his stories expecting it to take you somewhere frightening.
R. James as a sort of joint venture.The story which impressed me most, "The Hospice", is a perfect metaphor for Aickman's tales.
Taking shelter at a sort of inn - the "Hospice" of the title - he has such a weird evening and night that you start expecting ghosts to jump out at you from every page.
Here, the horror resides firmly in the reader's perception.The first story, "Swords", wins the prize for total weirdness.
Interestingly, I find myself in agreement and disagreement with Mark's take upon the tale: while I share with him an appreciation for the fact that Aickman opted therein to stretch and flex his writerly muscles by breaking away from his normal style while yet eschewing to otherwise delineate his Strange Stories so directly, I'm at the opposite end of his appreciation for the piece itself.
From what I had heard about his writing it seemed that his style of weird horror was just the kind of thing I'm looking for now.
"Pages from a Young Girl's journal" was quite different, portraying a young English girl, travelling abroad, as she gets turned into a vampire.Aickman's eloquent yet plain and precise prose made the stories a pleasure to read.
If you don't like a healthy dose of ambiguity with your stories, you'd probably do best to steer clear.
If like me, that's precisely what you're looking for, you'll be wondering what to read next after finishing this fine collection.
The most disturbing thing about this, I thought, was the fact that the descriptions of the protagonist and Mary's behaviour as very young children was described in such a sensual way that it almost seemed to imply a sexual relationship between them, or at least a sexual charge even if they didn't understand what this was at the time - another example of the general aura of oddness and uncomfortable suggestions pervading these stories.Meeting Mr. Millar might not actually be about anything weird; it might just be about very mundane, though probably illegal, goings-on in a London building.
The Swords (3 stars)Although the worst story in this collection, creates a vivid atmosphere.The Real Road to the Church (3 stars)Atmospheric, but ending is heavy-handed.Niemandswasser (5 stars)Haunting and utterly brilliant, one of Aickman’s finest stories.
Everything to do with time is hideous.’ More of Aickman’s ambivalent feelings towards the Third Reich, in a supremely realised tale of creeping horror.
(Aickman’s admiration for fascism, hinted at in several of his stories, was presumably offset by the fact that he had Jew friends, which conflicted his feelings.)
I can read a good horror tale, or watch a gripping horror movie, many times over, but the genre is usually quite visceral in nature, and usually the greatest impact comes with that initial experience.
When I read "The Hospice", I imagine some horrible kind of body horror, the likes of which might even make a Cronenberg balk, but which Aickman never actually spells out.
Most of the tales are told in first person, and the narrators recount events as best they can, without the omniscient wisdom of the authorial observer to clarify things for you, the reader.
I feel a little dishonest giving this 4 stars because I frequently felt a bit bored reading it and had to make myself go on. However, almost all the stories were genuinely creepy and I was impressed by how different they were from one another. "Pages from a Young Lady's Journal" was my favorite.
Ocekivao sam jedno,vrlo se pozitivno iznenadio stilom i ritmom svake od priča.Pisac koji dosta toga kaže nenapisanim.Oprema,štampa prevodi i sve ostale tehničke stvari vezane za knjigu besprekorni, kao i do sad u Orfelinu
When the story stays on a relatively predictable trajectory, as in one of the longest, his vampire tale "Pages from a Young Girl's Journal", which offers little beyond traditional vampiric lore, long established by the 70s, conveyed in a reservedly aristocratic holiday setting -- in such cases, they can grow rather tiresome.
Fortunately, I stuck it out, as the latter half immediately shifted into a much less predictable terrain, in which Aickman builds up a slow crescendo of vaguely mundane yet baffling circumstances into an eerily ambiguous climax, as in "The Hospice" and "The Same Dog".
The ultimate in dense, elegant, gothic, eerie horror. Not meant to be read quickly.
There is something lacking in the man who is one man only, and so, as he believes, at peace with the world and with himself.’”These words, addressed to a German nobleman by the aptly-named village teacher Spalt, seem to be utterly at variance with most of the protagonists we get in Robert Aickman’s collection of short stories Cold Hand in Mine, for these are mostly bigoted pedants, pandering to, and bowing before the conventions of middle-class life, with hardly anything more than average surfaceness about them, but on the one hand, the incongruity is dissolved when Spalt, a little later, goes on in this vein:”’[…] Life, as we know it, could hardly continue if men did not soon slay the dreamer inside them.
http://cultofghoul.blogspot.rs/2016/0...
A young man goes to some sort of weird Peep Show and sees men doing things to a girl.
THE TRUE ROAD TO THE CHURCH -- incredibly depressing, sad, sad story of a girl who has had a whole lot of men and just can't go on anymore.
PAGES FROM THE DIARY OF A YOUNG GIRL -- the big hit, the famous story that made Aickman's name.
Really these stories aren't all quite as stupid as they sound, but if you're looking for real American horror, where scary things happen instead of just sort of being implied, look somewhere else!
Great book of 'strange' fiction - Aickman was a true one-off, closer to Kafka than anyone else. His reputation is largely kept alive by the horror community nowadays, but deserves a wider readership from anyone who likes the weird and surreal.
Obviously what preceded this helped, but the more stories you read by Aickman the more you realise how much skill actually goes into writing them.
I can see a similar thing happening in all writing - you can't just have it fully formed, at least not in terms of how it is published - but with Aickman I'm convinced that the choice of words and their positions, as well as their timing, are just as crucial as what's going on in the story themselves.
Aickman is this type of writer, and though I didn't really enjoy some of the stories as much as I expected, I'll be reading more of him.
Not strange enough.
Ir tikrai, sunku sugalvoti geresnį apibūdinimą šiai knygai negu "keistos istorijos".Kiekvienoje iš jų yra kažkas antgamtinio ir grėsmingo, bet sunku pasakyti, kad tai siaubo istorijos, nes tokio kaip ir siaubo tenai nelabai yra, greičiau kažkoks nejaukumas, kuris labai palengva įlenda ir paskui palengva išsisklaido, palikdamas (kartais esminių) pėdsakų personažų gyvenimuose.Turbūt įdomiausia šiose istorijose yra tai, kokios jos kasdieniškos.
Kur tarp tų variacijų įsiterpia ir pradeda skleistis kažkas tikrai keisto, sunku pirštu parodyti.
It’s also notable that both authors shared an interest in a certain kind of quiet, retiring male protagonist, who may be possessed by either a kind of gynophobia or a lingering Hoffman-like obsession with a particular female figure (though Aickman does also write from a female point of view, which I don’t think ever occurred to James).But whereas the creatures which inhabit James’ fictions often seem to (literally) emerge from an over-curious preoccupation with antiquary, Aickman’s world is more concerned with modernity: most of these stories are set in a faded and faintly grim rendition of post-War Britain.
It was, if anything, a little too perfect a synchronization, the reader equivalent of a photographer photographing a teddy bear left behind after a tornado's destruction: the point was too sharp.
These stories are well-written, even in their parts impenetrable, and the collection is a fine one.
Though who knows, stories like "The Swords" and "The Hospice" would probably not frighten off an Aickman-novice, so maybe this collection is just fine to dive head first into.
I consume literature like some people consume junk food.
However, I took about six months reading these eight stories by Robert Aickman.
These deeply melancholy tales deserve to be read slowly, carefully.
Each strange story is told with a clarity and simplicity that made me feel as if I wasn't reading fiction as much as witnessing an unsettling, but very real sequence of events.
The first two stories in particular, The Swords and The Real Road to the Church, have an emotional impact that is hard to shrug off.
Recommended to those of you who prefer your horror stories understated and inconclusive.
I owned this book back in the "olden days" (back in the 70s).
I wasn't real taken with Aickman (as evidenced by the fact that I'd forgotten a book I once owned).
I got this from the library, and it came back to me.I would hesitate to call these "horror" stories.
The first story, The Swords sets an odd tone for the set while the closest to what I suppose would be thought of as a "traditional" horror story might be, Pages From Young Girl's Journal.
They all carry the same dark feel while looking at Aickman's strange and disturbing world from a different angle.
Setting aside 5.24.15 at 20%
This is somewhat fitting, as the stories also lacked conclusive endings.The collection opens with “The Swords”, an eerie erotic story about a man losing his virginity to a prostitute.
It just doesn’t break new ground, either as a vampire story or as an Aickman story (limited though my experience may be).“The Hospice” is probably my favorite from the book, and is easily a five-star slow burn of a story.
It’s interesting to see how I respond to them differently (more to “The Hospice” than “The Same Dog”), and I wonder if it’s due to those characterizations.“Meeting Mr. Millar” follows, and is no easy story to read because the main character isn’t likeable.
This is another fantastic collection of slow burn, subtle horror. As always the most impressive part of Aickman's stories is the atmosphere, all the stories of his that I've read have an ominous feeling to them and occult undertones. I also love the inherent Britishness to his writing, it has a strange twee charm that would be annoying from a lesser writer but Aickman pulls it off with ease. I'd recommend this to fans of weird fiction and quiet horror, this collection is well worth your time.
Robert Aickman was the true successor to the magisterial M.
R. James, of antiquarian supernatural horror-story fame.
Aickman, who was writing from the 1950s to the 1970s, produced contemporary ‘strange stories’, not period pieces, but he shared James’s elegant, dry, deliciously pedantic style and slow-burning sense of menace.
His collections, which have been pretty much out of print, have become available again thank to the excellent and innovative ‘Faber Finds’ imprint, as ebooks and ‘print-on-demand’.http://www.faber.co.uk/faberfinds/Aickman’s stories have all of the ‘cosy’ pleasures of your classic ghost-story, but what makes them better than most is that he really is an exceptionally good writer: an elegant, spare stylist, often wryly funny, and a subtle creator of character.
His stories are only occasionally ‘gruesome’, or obviously supernatural.
