https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25734172-seven-brief-lessons-on-physics
We realize that we are full of prejudices and that our intuitive image of the world is partial, parochial, inadequate."― Carlo Rovelli, Seven Brief Lessons on PhysicsAt the highest level a discussion of physics doesn't just operate on a mathematical level, but a poetic and philosophical level as well.
Look closely at the writings of Aristotle, Lucretius, Einstein and Feynman, and one discovers not just some code to the operation of the Universe, but love songs to that Universe, a desire to connect to and explain the beauty and transcendence of Nature and our role in this complex and amazing world.This book reminds me of a funeral I went to for a former (obvious) client of mine.
This strikes me as the kind of book that would really impress an arts graduate who thought it was giving deep insights into science in an elegant fashion, but for me it was a triumph of style over substance - far too little content to do justice to the subject.
It is, in effect, seven articles strung together as a mini-book that can be read comfortably in an hour, but is priced like a full-length work.Don't get me wrong, Carlo Rovelli knows his stuff when it comes to physics and gives us postcard sketches of a number of key areas, mostly in the hot fields like cosmology and quantum gravity (though interestingly focussing on the generally rather less popular loop quantum gravity).
Seven Brief Lessons on Physicsby Carlo RovelliA theoretical physicist philosophical guide to modern physics.
At less than 100 pages, you can’t expect a thorough explanation and quantum physics is mind-bending.
Thanks to Houston Public Library I had both.A university student attending lectures on general relativity in the morning and others on quantum mechanics in the afternoon might be forgiven for concluding that his professors are fools, or have neglected to communicate with each other for at least a century.
Nature is behaving with us like that elderly rabbi to whom two men went in order to settle a dispute.
It’s dark, but I liked it.*********************************************************https://www.businessinsider.com/how-a...https://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/23/bo...
(c)Q:In short, the theory describes a colourful and amazing world where universes explode, space collapses into bottomless holes, time sags and slows near a planet, and the unbounded extensions of interstellar space ripple and sway like the surface of the sea … And all of this, which emerged gradually from my mice-gnawed book, was not a tale told by an idiot in a fit of lunacy, or a hallucination caused by Calabria’s burning Mediterranean sun and its dazzling sea.
If we try to put together what we have learnt in the twentieth century about the physical world, the clues point towards something profoundly different from our instinctive understanding of matter, space and time.
This book explained the basic concepts of physics, and major breakthroughs in the field over the years in such an effortlessly poetic way, that I couldn't help but be drawn in and understand them a little bit better. Really fantastic stuff.
In those moments of life when the grim figures of anxiety, stress, or panic grip me tight and threaten to never let go, I have learned that the one thing sure to scare them off is a nice little face-off with the end of the universe.That’s my super casual way of saying I’ve been having a bit of a hard time with anxiety recently.
Little did I know.The tiny size of SEVEN BRIEF LESSONS ON PHYSICS belies the size of the utter mind-fuck that is held within.Allow me to explain.
It starts amicably enough:"These lessons were written for those who know little or nothing about modern science."That’s me, right there.
If you could have seen my brain (insert microscope joke here) as I read this slim but enlightening tome, it would have looked distressingly like one of those delightful taffy pulling machines you see at quaint, old-fashioned candy stores on Mackinac Island or a boardwalk somewhere.That said, for someone who hasn’t read much on physics in about 20 years, this is an excellent (and mercifully high-level) overview of the current state of the field and includes brief forays into topics ranging from general relativity to cutting-edge loop quantum gravity theory.
Quick read. I felt the author talked about himself more than any of the theories he was trying to convey in his book. These are such complex theories, that were so dumbed- down it was impossible to read at times.
Once or twice I lost the train of thought, because, even though atoms make up molecules, they are different things in essence, but they're the same as well, and Rovelli doesn't quite get this across in a way that doesn't make me want to just start reading Alan Bennett in Alan Bennett's voice and to hell with atoms.It's also focused heavily on space, which is the of-the-moment sexy side of physics (and science as a whole).
Engaging but over-slight summary of a few foundational concepts of modern physics, including special relativity, quantum theory, the standard model, as well as some leading hypothetical ideas like loop quantum gravity.It's always welcome to read someone who's working from the conviction that these ideas should be accessible to everyone, not just a coterie of science graduates, and Rovelli certainly has an appealing turn of phrase.
Πέραν της καθαρά ερευνητικής του δραστηριότητας, γράφει σε μια Ιταλική εφημερίδα, φέρνοντας τον καθημερινό άνθρωπο λίγο πιο κοντά στα επιτεύγματα της φυσικής.
Όταν τελειώνω ένα τέτοιο βιβλίο που απευθύνεται στο ευρύ κοινό, πάντα είμαι σκεπτικός: θα καταφέρει ένας άσχετος να καταλάβει κάτι; Θα το έδινα, για παράδειγμα, στην αδερφή μου; Αυτά τα επιτεύγματα μέσα από τους αγώνες λαμπρών μυαλών, είναι κτήμα όλων μας.
Και ένα τέτοιο βιβλίο σαν του Ροβέλι, διασκεδαστικό και ανθρώπινο, είναι ο καλύτερος τρόπος για έναν άνθρωπο δίχως τριβή στις θετικές επιστήμες να γνωρίσει που έχει φτάσει η κατανόησή μας για την πλάση.
This explains the 'force of gravity' that prevents the planets from flying off into the galaxy.Quantum Mechanics: The energy of a field is distributed in 'quanta', or packets of energy, like electrons in an electrical field.
Ha ha ha.Quantum Gravity: Unfortunately the theories of general relativity - where the universe is a continuous curved space, and quantum mechanics - where the universe is composed of particles that bleep in and out of existence, contradict each other.
So physicists are trying to merge the ideas in a field of study called 'loop quantum gravity.' One combined theory suggests that space is not continuous but made up of infinitesimally small 'grains of space' called loops.....connected somewhat like a chain link fence.
Chi sa sa, chi non sa continua a non sapereQueste sette lezioni (che poi sono sei più una parte dedicata a riflessioni generali sull’uomo) sono parzialmente tratte da una serie di articoli pubblicati dall’autore sul “Sole 24 Ore”.Le lezioni trattano, in 88 pagine complessive, cosucce come la relatività generale di Einstein, la meccanica quantistica, le particelle elementari, l’architettura del cosmo, i buchi neri ed altro ancora.Arrivato alla fine del saggio mi è venuta in mente una freddura che lessi tempo fa su un libro inglese: “ho letto Guerra e Pace con la lettura veloce: parla della Russia”.Gli argomenti trattati, indubbiamente complessi, sono spiegati con un linguaggio semplice.
Rovelli starts with General Relativity and shows us how elegant and simple it is - to re-imagine space as a place that bends, stretches, and interacts with the stars.
The last chapter gets a bit fuzzy and philosophical, but that is from where we summon the sense of grandeur required to plod on in the face of all the weirdness that modern science is - to keep exploring this strange, multicolored and astonishing world which we inhabit – where space is granular, time does not exist, and things are nowhere.
One brief book on modern physics for those of us who know nothing of the subject.
I recall a friend talking excitedly about quantum physics in 1968.
I paid little attention at the time and since.
Now I want to understand a bit of this, just a bit.
Rovelli does a good job of explaining complex concepts in plain language.
Some of it did not come through very well but the book has served its purpose - to give me a sense of the basic problems and concepts of modern physics.
In 80 pages, I cannot expect too much.
Most readers will know Italian, have the book in front of them, and make use of R to obtain knowledge about physics.
I'm in a different position: I have the book, and I know the physics, but I want to use R to obtain knowledge about Italian, where I'm still a beginner.
I'll use a random number generator to choose a paragraph and see how well I understand it.
Here goes...My random number generator picks page 27, 63% of the way down the page.
Well, based on these lessons and observations, I have no choice (and please forgive me if it goes astray) but to heed the advice of another great observer and theorist: The sky was all purpleThere were people runnin' everywhereTryin' to run from the destructionYou know I didn't even careThey say two thousand zero, zeroParty overOops, out of timeSo tonight I'm gonna party like it's 1999I guess what I'm saying is that after reading this book I'm grappling with the question of whether to read more introductory books on physics or just spend the time listening to my complete collection of Prince albums.
Нищо :)Много поучителна и със забавни моменти като този, в който авторът (кликнете, кликнете, ще чуете и него на английски, и любимите му Джанис и Джана :) прави сравнение по повод двете несъвместими, но верни теории (на относителността и квантовата): "Природата се отнася с нас като онзи стар равин, при когото отишли за съвет двама спорещи мъже.
Щом изслушал първия, равинът казал: „Прав си”.
Вторият настоял също да бъде чут, та равинът изслушал и него, след което заявил: „И ти си прав”.
Тогава съпругата му, която надавала ухо от съседната стая, се провикнала: „Ама не може да са прави и двамата!”.
"Non siamo curiosi contro natura, siamo curiosi per natura. [...] Nasciamo e moriamo come nascono e muoiono le stelle, sia individualmente che collettivamente. Questa è la nostra realtà. Per noi, proprio per la sua natura effimera, la vita è preziosa."
DE RERUM NATURASono pagine che raccontano di gente che con lo sguardo sapeva spaziare oltre l’orizzonte.Sono pagine sulla bellezza. E su occhi nuovi per vedere il mondo.Il mondo continua a cambiare sotto i nostri occhi, man mano che lo vediamo meglio.Siamo polvere di stelle.
SEVEN BRIEF LESSONS ON PHYSICSCarlo Rovelli This little book is a summary of the seven major science subjects condensed into seven lessons of no more than twelve pages each.It is written for readers like me, who know little about modern science and are grateful to get to know a little more. ------------------The first lesson is dedicated to Albert Einstein’s general theory of relativity, “the most beautiful of theories.”Newton, the great father of modern science, had his ideas about “the force o
Michael Faraday and James Maxwell had added a key element: “the electromagnetic field.”Einstein came to understand that gravity, like electricity, must also be conveyed by a field: “a gravitational field.”And then a stroke of genius occurred to him: “the gravitational field is not diffused through space, it is that space itself.”“Space and gravitational field are the same thing.”					-------------------The second to quantum mechanics, or quantum theory.The Dane Niels Bohr was the first to understand that the energy of electrons in atoms can take on only certain values and crucially that they can only jump between one atomic orbit and another with determined energies, emitting or absorbing a photon when they jump.these are the famous “quantum leaps.”Werner Heisenberg was the first to write equations of the new theory and even imagined that electrons do not always exist.
It's a high-level history almost anyone could have written, with one chapter expressing the favorite European flavor of the day: "we're doomed." Without footnotes pointing to the more exacting details of physics, what is the audience for this book?
The readers won't learn much--for example, the first chapter purports to be about special and general relativity, but doesn't explain it.
There's a very short chapter on cosmology, saying space is curved and expanding, but then he's off talking about black holes, without mentioning the "Schwarchild Radius", where even light cannot escape.
از طرفی فصل آخر شبیه به تاملات فلسفی نویسنده است که پیوستگی و سازگاری معنایی و مفهومی با سایر فصول ندارند و گاه خواننده با خودش فکر می کند این هم یک شکل دیگر از مغلطه روشنفکران و متخصصین است که تمایل دارند فهمشان از دانش تخصصی خود را به حوزه های دیگر تعمیم دهند
Still, as Carlo Rovelli writes, “It is part of our nature to long to know more, and to continue to learn”, and it’s good to get out of our comfort zones and try something different, which is why I gave this book a shot – and I’m so glad I did because I loved it!
Italian theoretical physicist Carlo Rovelli has written the ideal book for someone like me with Seven Brief Lessons on Physics.
Rovelli explains the Theory of Relativity well but the chapter on Quantum Physics still left me wondering what the subject is about – then again I think it’s partly meant to be an unknowable subject!
Quick, easy and interesting.
While I'm reading or listening, I'm absolutely entranced, but once the “interaction” is over my understanding flickers out of existence like one of those elusive little Heisenberg particles.
I have “quantum understanding.” Still, given this handicap, I found Rovelli's book absolutely delightful.
Though I did become more than usually muddled in chapter 5, when he described his own area of special interest (according to his book jacket bio), “loop quantum gravity theory,” for the most part he managed to make impossibly complicated ideas seem, briefly, nearly comprehensible.
The teachers didn't help.
The beginning of my school week was made even more wretched by having a double dose of Physics first thing on a Monday morning.With the passing of the years the time seemed right to confront this particular demon.
How fortunate for me that I was able to do so with the help of Carlo Rovelli.
These seven bite sized lessons are clearly and elegantly written.
The last one is beautifully written and especially memorable for being so.
This little book retained my interest throughout and I can't believe I'm saying this: Physics can clearly be fun!
I do think that the author worded things well so you could grasp them quickly, and I liked reading about the origins of the universe through imagery, but there wasn't a whole lot of 'new' ideas, mostly just re-hashings of other theories through the ages.The last section focuses on how Humanity fits into all of this science and nature.
I didn't really like this section as I felt it all became a bit too metaphorical and theoretical, and I want to have facts and theories when learning, not so much speculation.
4.7Um livro surpreendente ...
Este é um livro pequeno em tamanho mas grande no potencial e na mensagem que transmite.
Recebi ontem e li no mesmo dia!Achei deliciosa a forma como é apresentada a física, como de uma forma simples nos é oferecido o universo e aguçada a curiosidade para os assuntos abordados.Apreciei o cuidado que o autor teve no discurso, no privilegiar de uma mensagem clara, limpa e perceptível (dentro do possível) ao comum dos mortais.Para mim são muitas as revelações, e é interessante ter uma pequena noção do que os nossos cientistas lutam por conseguir.«Este mundo estranho, variegado e espantoso que exploramos, onde o céu se esfarela, o tempo não existe e as coisas podem não estar em lado nenhum, não é algo que nos distancie de nós: é apenas aquilo que a nossa curiosidade natural nos mostra a nossa casa.»Adorei o livro que me (...)Ler mais em:Opinião: Sete Breves Lições de Física de Carlo Rovelli |Livros e Marcadores
3.5"It is not against nature to be curious: it is in our nature to be so."This was an interesting little book.
I am not a scientist, far from it, and spend most of the time in Humanities subjects.
I was however curious to see what the author could communicate in such a short format.
Well, still not entirely sure...
Rovelli goes from the 'macro' perspective of cosmology, gravity and Einstein's famous theory of relativity, to the 'micro' one of quantum mechanics, focusing on particles.
Finally, the last chapter took on a different route, adding the human element into the equation, one that I could appreciate.
