https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6541.Cause_of_Death
Book Review  Cause of Death is the 7th book in the "Kay Scarpetta" thriller and mystery series by award-winning author Patricia Cornwell. I've read about 2/3 of the series and now returning to write reviews on everything I've read in the hopes it'll push me to pick up the series again in the coming weeks.For those new to the series, Scarpetta is a Virginia-based medical examiner, but eventually she moves around a bit over the course of the 20+ book series. She's sharp, witty and tough. She's h
I've read about 2/3 of the series and now returning to write reviews on everything I've read in the hopes it'll push me to pick up the series again in the coming weeks.For those new to the series, Scarpetta is a Virginia-based medical examiner, but eventually she moves around a bit over the course of the 20+ book series.
I stopped because I felt like I needed a new character to focus on, a different set of stories in a different place, but they are still all generally good books.Cause of Death was one of the average books.
It was like she took everything that was sort of timely at the moment she was writing- middle east, nuclear weapons and David Koresh and tossed it all in a blender and tried to make a plot out of it.
The plot needed a ton of explaining and at the end it was like she realized that so she just stopped writing to save herself the trouble.
Because there is no other reason for that abrupt ending.The characters are going downhill fast.
Kay is the most unsympathetic character ever.
The best character the series has is Marino, and that doesn't say much.
Cornwell continues the Scarpetta series with another great mystery that will keep the reader on the edge of their seat.
Cornwell treats the reader to another great installment of the Scarpetta series sure to keep her fans happy and add more to the list.Cornwell's ability to think up new scenarios surely keeps the character fresh and ever-evolving.
She has a way of adding layers rather than piling on to already known facts, which surely keeps the avid reader liking the always-expanding character of Dr. Kay Scarpetta.
I still love Marino.

Avoid at all costs!
I would love to never have to read another page of conversation between Lucy and Kay. It drove me crazy and was endlessly irritating.
I also have a hard time believing in a main character who committed affairs with married men.
How am i ever supposed to believe what she says after that?
He is the only character worth anything in the story.
The first half of the book was great and built up nicely.
But the second half of the book was horrible and it has one of the worst endings in the history of books.
This is the worst so far - it ends with IloveLucy and her aunt saving the world (aka USA) with a toy robot and some bad stoic acting.
Seriously, terrorists and religious fanatics and all they are used for is for Lucy to move her hand and her aunt to visit a few laboratories she had not found a good excuse to describe so far.
Don't remind me of others - see, the worst bit is that apart from four more KS I also have one more of the less beloved series that I found so interesting - and now it seems I was wrong, what seemed a refreshing and sharp meta text was perhaps really her utter inability to write stories and evolving human beings *sob* *must stop typing* the end.
SPOILERS!!! 2/4 - This took me more nights to finish than I expected, I thought I'd get it done in two nights of reading, unfortunately sleep decided to kidnap me a few nights in a row and I just couldn't manage as many pages as I was expecting to. I'm starting to find the 'kill Scarpetta's staff' theme a little tedious, working for her is becoming a dangerous occupation. I remembered the fact that among all of Scarpetta's other accomplishments she's also a certified scuba diver and I remembere
I felt like this could have been 50 pages longer in order so that the climax didn't end up feeling like an anticlimactic after-thought, rather than the big reveal it should have been.This is the last book in my mini Scarpetta marathon, for the moment at least.
Well, I probably could but I don't think it's recommended with Cornwell as you begin to notice the flaws too easily if you read her books one after another till the end, plus I wouldn't feel like I've accomplished something I've set out to do the way I will if I finish this year's POPSUGAR list.
Ειδικά η συμπεριφορά της Σκαρπέττα σε ό,τι έχει να κάνει με την ανιψιά της έχει αρχίσει να μου σπάει τα νεύρα.
Εννοείται πως δεν παριστάνει ούτε η ίδια πως είναι ο καλυτερότερος άνθρωπος του κόσμου ή ο φωτεινός παντογνώστης,όμως μερικές φορές η συμπεριφορά της ή ο τρόπος σκέψης της για τους άλλους με εκνευρίζει επίσης.
ΟΚ,το καταλαβαίνω πως αυτά τα συναισθήματα είναι ανθρώπινα,όμως μάλλον η Κέυ Σκαρπέττα είναι ένας χαρακτήρας που δεν θα ήθελα στον δικό μου κοινωνικό κύκλο τελικά.
Audio version: 3 to 3.5 stars - #7 in Dr. Kay Scarpetta seriesI started off really liking this series, but the more I've read (esp.
I'm not sure if KS was written a little harsher in this one or if some of that was the audio's narrator.
I've read most of the others prior to this & the one audio had a different narrator, which was a much better KS.
I started off liking this one just b/c setting was a little different and finally not about Gault/Grethen as the 3 previously installments were, and for me it was getting old.
Also, how is it that main character Kay Scarpetta, a medical examiner, seems to be directing the whole police investigation?Another bone to pick: the cover photo is of a diver in crystal clear blue water, but the only diving that goes on in the book is in brown murky water where Scarpetta can't see her hand in front of her face.She also quotes Luke 23:22 at the front of the book, because, conveniently, she found a bible verse that matches her title:"And he said unto them the third time, Why, what evil hath he done?
I simply don't care about Kay Scarpetta, her colleagues, the murderers or the victims.
The book is full of technical stuff, sometimes purposely inserted.
Does the ordinary public even care about the make of guns or what the occipital bone is or how exactly a naval boat operates?
I found myself skipping these parts and soon enough got hopelessly lost because among the endless technical jargon was some minor plot development.
I would not recommend this book to anyone unless this kind of stuff interests you: "Land impressions are point oh-seven-four.
Groove impressions are point one-five-three.
This book appears to be an episode in a continuing story arc for the main characters, none of whose issues really engaged me.
The main character, Va. Medical Examiner Kay Scarpetta, wonders why other characters from other agencies are hostile and uncooperative.
I suspected it was because of Scarpetta's own arrogance and unprofessional behavior as she intrudes on investigations that are out of her jurisdiction and job description.
(Spoiler alert.) However, after jetting on the Concorde to London with her (married) boss to interview a suspect (and have a quickie) Kay belatedly discovers the uncooperative officers are linked to the bad guys.
This was my first Patricia Cornwell novel, and having worked in forensics for a few years, I was excited to finally delve into one of her novels.
Apparently, I chose the wrong book.I found the plot moderately interesting, but the writing style habitually annoyed me.
And I didn’t particularly love the main character.
Maybe if it was written in the third person, I would have liked her better.
But instead I found her a little arrogant.
Finally, I found the ending anti-climactic and abrupt.I may try again with an earlier KS novel, because millions of readers can’t possibly be all wrong.
:' - i
Schuld von Patricia Cornwell ist als siebter Fall einer der früheren Fälle um Dr. Kay Scarpetta, Pete Morino und ihrer Nichte Lucy.
Hier ist Kay noch Chief Medical Examiner von Virginia und sie vertritt Ende Dezember einen ihrer lokalen Leichenbeschauer und wohnt der Einfachheit halber in dessen Haus.
(hide spoiler)]Die Protagisten sind in Schuld zwar noch unverbrauchter, aber man erkennt schon leicht ängstlich die unangenehmen Seiten ihrer Charaktere.
Das Verhältnis von Lucy und Kay ist auch hier schon schwierig gezeichnet, ohne dass man so recht erkennen kann, wo eigentlich das Problem liegt.
Halt, möchte man rufen, nicht weiter, von hier an geht es nur noch bergab.
So, Patricia Cornwell has filled in this startling gap of literary imagination by writing 'Cause of Death!', using her most famous and beloved female character as a mentor to us fans!'Cause of Death' is a well-written spy mystery (what a shock!) and I thought it a little strange for Dr. Kay Scarpetta, Virginia ME, normally a superb murder-mystery maven, to be involved in a possible international case of terrorism.
She always is an extraordinary superwoman scientific medical doctor, though, and I love this over-the-top series because of that fictionalized exaggeration of her as a character.
So, improbable as the direction this #7 in the series seems to be leading Dr. Scarpetta, it is a fun read!
I love Kay Scarpetta, so independent and seemingly fearless yet human and intelligent. Not as racy as some of the others in the series I still found the book incredibly enjoyable and fast paced.
Enjoyable and addictive page-turner crime thrillers with a generous helping of pathology and forensic science detail, which appealed to my otherwise dormant inner science geek.But by this stage in the series - Cause of Death is the 7th Kay Scarpetta novel - Cornwell had well and truly lost the plot, both figuratively and literally.At her best, Cornwell had always written rather plodding, uninventive prose, but as the series progressed any pretence at literary merit flew out of the window along with her dictionary.
The thing to remember when reading fiction; latitude is a given.
I have said and continue to think she's an extension of what Patricia Cornwell is like and I find that continually compelling.
She gets involved in multiple things in this book just like the novels that have preceded it; The introduction of Lucy's personal life and her sexuality is wonderful.
A side note; if you read the introduction Cornwell states how uncomfortable she was with diving and never fully embraced it.
Let's give Cornwell some credit in her 7th novel as she uses the gift fiction writers are known for; imagination.
I couldn't help but get immersed in this book.
Literally, a diver gets killed and the action takes place in Norfolk Va, my old stomping grounds!
Chesapeake, Richmond, Back Bay and of course the US Navy is involved.
I am an old Navy brat!
So, I have to admit that some of my enjoyment of this book had to do with personal nostalgia.
However,the female medical examiner/detective named Scarpetta was really well portrayed as the protagonist that does not give up.
This book led me to read another Scarpetta detective novel, "Predator." Equally as good but takes place in Florida.
Blog | Reviews | Instagram | Twitter | Pinterest | Shop | Etsy
This is the 7th book of Cornwell's Kay Scarpetta series.
Kay is still messing around with a married Wesley.
Oh, and Cornwell doesn't know how to end a story.
Once again the story starts out strong and by the end we are left shaking our heads.
It goes from a murder of an investigative reporter to hostages being taken at a nuclear facility and Virginia being threatened with nuclear destruction.
All of a sudden the killer of a reporter is a religious nut job and his cult who are selling nuclear material to other countries out to get the US.
Un caso de la doctora Kay Scarpetta, el séptimo si no me equivoco. Bien, interesante aunque a veces algo lioso con tanto término radioactivo y demás.
i started reading these when i was about 10-15 years younger than the characters and now i am 10-15 years older.
This is the first of this character that i have read so perhaps the earlier novels covered that.
I think i have tossed this series/character before...the name kay scarpetta seems familiar).
and then the novel plunged into ridiculousness...On what planet would Kay be in charge of any deaths caused by a similar attack in another country?
Its like the beginning and the ending weren't part of the same novel.
I thought some pages were missing because of the abrupt end.I think this New-Zionist stuff was too much in sight in the late 90s, so Cornwell just wanted to use them in her book and she didn't have anyone to talk about her lesbianism, therefore she just wanted to communicate about her personal rights through troubled characters.I only hope that Lucy and Scarpetta are going to be more lovable so that I can stand the same old template, but after seven books, I feel nothing but dissapointed.PS: The age correlation between Lucy and Kay is giving me a headache.
I started reading the Kay Scarpetta books ‘cos a friend of mine is addicted to them.
In this book you have KS stands in for one of her local colleagues who is out of town and is immediately at odds with various police/military none of whom she ever takes to task despite being this fiercely strong and independent woman.
As the boredom unravels it all turns out that a local religious cult has got into bed with the Libyan’s to help them get plutonium to build nuclear weapons.
In Cause of Death, Cornwell immediately dives into her heroine's latest case and mystery.
This is perhaps Kay's most dangerous case yet.While Kay's niece Lucy, all her technology jargon, and all of her emotional baggage are still front and center in this novel, Cause of Death does not get bogged down too much in its subplots.
What is not relatable is Kay's insistence upon inserting herself into dangerous situations and getting herself into messes she has no business becoming involved in.
But perhaps this is why these books work so well, why they're so fun to read: while you and I have no business negotiating with terrorists, through Cornwell's Scarpetta, we can live an adrenaline packed existence...
CAUSE OF DEATH - OkayCornwell, PatriciaAn investigative reporter is found dead in Virginia's icy waters ...
New Year's Eve and the final murder scene of Virginia's bloodiest year takes Scarpetta thirty feet below the Elizabeth River's icy surface.
A diver, Ted Eddings, is dead, an investigative reporter who was a favourite at the Medical Examiner's office.
And why did Scarpetta receive a phone call from someone reporting the death before the police were notified?
Together they follow the trail of death to a well of violence as dark and forbidding as water that swirled over Ted Eddings.Better than the last two but only okay.
These books are getting harder and harder to read.
My dad was in the FBI at Quantico and a person like Lucy, with all her emotional problems, would never be hired no matter how brilliant she was.
All this personal angst is getting in the way of the plot.
Corwell's earliest books used to be about the crime and it's solution and were incredibly interesting, but she has gotten to the point where every returning character has a neurosis and none of them can put aside their personal problems and solve the crime.
