https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/117842.The_Songs_Of_Distant_Earth
But humans keep making the ships better and by the time the solar system is incinerated, they have developed a quantum drive, which allows them to travel at close to 20% of the speed of light.One of these advanced starships, among the last to leave Earth, the Magellan, is travelling toward a system with a planet that has been named Sagan Two. The planet is presently inhospitable to life, but is covered in massive amounts of ice.
Sci-fi lit geeks tend, I've learned, to fall into one of two categories: Asimov fans, or Clarke fans. I loved the Foundation trilogy as a kid, but this simple novel - even with its fairly bland characters - was so delicate and sad that it launched me firmly into the Clarke camp, and not just because there was a pony in it.
When Clarke dealt with science, he was brilliant.
When Clarke dealt with sociology and the nature of man as he did in this work, he did not shine so brightly.
The bit about them discovering what might be intelligent life in their ocean felt like a nod to the idea of the "Prime Directive" worked in to add a bit more science fiction to what is essentially a handbook on how to achieve utopia by assisting the evolution of the species.
Clarke convinced me that this was viable at least on Thalassa.The negative aspects of this book circle around the book's plot, which follows.
The book essentially chronicles the consequences of when Earth's final refugee vehicle on its way to a distant star stops on Thalassa both because the starship needs ice from the planet's oceans to rebuild a shield against stellar debris and because Thalassa's transponder was long ago destroyed by the planet's volcano leading Earth to believe that the probe's colonization had failed and left Thalassa untouched by humanity.
Poignant tales that could remind the humble beginnings of life who ever tried to understand such history and I've been feeling that the time spent with it, is worth spending.
The story was mostly interesting, and yet never captivated me like others of Clarke's have done.
I may not feel the same about the book if I re-read some day when my own life is not bouncing around.Thalassa is a planet that was colonized by robot ships when the Sun was close to going nova.
Thanks to the discovery of quantum drive, all of these people were unexpectedly able to escape into space and are on their way to a planet called Sagan Two. But they need to rebuild their heat shield, which is really a big block of ice.
The finale is also quite underwhelming.On the more positive side, the psychological aspects related to the very long time frame required by interstellar travel are explored in some depth and with some interesting insights, and the author does not indulge into too much unscientific speculation - the quantum drive engine is quite cool.Overall a decently written, pretty pleasant read, with some interesting insights, but nothing earth-shattering.
A good piece of science fiction, overall, but I could not see here much of the creative genius that was so visible in the Space Odyssey series.
I decided that one of my favorite thing about Clarke's books (read 6 so far) is his faith in human kind.
I enjoy his utopias he obviously envisioned we will achieve with further development of technology.
Some readers say nothing happens in this book/even his other books.
Miracles of unbeliavable vision happen.
The Utopia of Thalassa (and yet so realistic) and the last Millenia of Earth are stories withing a story.
And of course the scientific phenonmena and theories are explained - that's what happens.
Anyway, just like all his books I read so far - well worth a read.
A utopian human colony in the far future that is visited by travelers from a doomed Earth, as the Sun has gone nova.The story is set in early 3800s, on an oceanic planet called Thalassa.
Thalassa was populated by an embryonic seed pod, one of many sent from earth when humans discovered that the sun would go nova and burn earth and all the solar system.700 years after it's population, Thalassa is visited by a seed ship that was sent from dying earth on it's way to a distant planet.
As communication with Thalassa was lost, the ship assumes that the planet is uninhabited and they are surprised to find humans there.This is my kind of Science fiction.
Clarke's sci-fi always stands the test of time, he was visionary enough for his ideas to be relevant for a very long time. I also like his blend of philosphy and future. The story was a blend of a ton of different ideas, mutiny, extr-terrestrial intelligence, population control and a species without a home. Lots to think about, unfortunately for me, too much. I never got caught up in any of the issues, too surface an exaamination for a 4 star rating.
Read in the 80s/90s, but not sure exactly when. I do know I bought the book, which was a terrible mistake on my part. Pretty sure it was the last time I knowingly read anything by Clarke. I hated him for writing it, the publisher for publishing it, the bookstore for selling it, the loggers for cutting down the trees which produced the paper, and the trees for not having better defense mechanisms.
I read this book back in 1987 and rediscovered over the holidays.
Very much like sailors traveling the oceans they stop along the way for supplies and discover that a colony they feared was destroyed hundreds of years ago is actually doing quite well.
I really enjoyed the book and recommend it for anyone who likes classic science fiction.
Some of the details are a bit dated now but it didn’t take away from the good story.
If you’re looking for an action packed, guns blazing type of story this isn’t it.
If you’re looking for good thoughtful science fiction then this is a nice choice.
Да послушаме “Песните на далечната Земя”, тихи, тъжни и обречени: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/p... Една от онези любими книги, четени безчет пъти преди години, и които имам нужда да си припомням понякога, за да знам кой съм и какъв съм бил. Нека е наивна “Песните на далечната Земя”, нека е твърде семпла и несложна – но е толкова красиво атеистично-вдъхновена, толкова изчистена от тинята на историята на човечеството и настоящето, в което се е забатачило като в плаващи пясъци – Артър Кларк със замах хвърля цялата планета и греховете й в слънчевосистемен крематориум и започва на чисто на далечна планета. http://knigolandia.info/book-review/p...
Meh. Really, this book has almost no tension or conflict. There was nothing to look forward to at the end. Nothing to resolve. Just forgettable characters and a lazy plot that could have been so much more. There are many very interesting ideas and questions about humanity that could have been pursued. But the effort seemed only half-hearted.The synopsis of the book at the top of its entry in Goodreads is more interesting to read.
The Songs of Distant Earth takes his visionary foresight a step further (it is worth mentioning at this stage that I have only read a barebone fraction of his massive amount of literature and short stories, but had grown up with his Television programs as a child, such as 'Mysterious World' during the early 1980's, and of course the seminal '2001' joint collaboration with Kubrick), this time about future space exploration, the colonisation of new planets many light years away from a dying Earth, Quantum Drives (which he never really explains in the short book, but hides that away as saying no one really understood how they worked on the space shipMagellan either), and really just about the survival of Human culture, art, music - love and emotions too - and so on.
I had high expectation and honestly a little bit scared that I would be a convert, that I would prefer him than my current favourite of the big three, Isaac Asimov (I haven't read any of Heinlein's books).And I was no traitor.
It made me wonder whether I should have gone with his other book.Starting the second half, I started to appreciate the way the story was told.
Un" classique" de la science-fiction La terre condamnée, s'en suit une diaspora spatiale sur plusieu
I enjoyed this book. It was a quick, interesting read. However,I didn’t connect with the characters. I seem to have this problem with many books written by male authors, especially in sci-if that isn’t new. Certainly, I’ve connected deeply with the characters in books by some male authors; I’m just saying the lack of connection isn’t uncommon for me when I read male authors. Does that make sense? Anyhow, I certainly wasn’t ever tempted to put the book aside. I liked it.
Clarke's treatment, as it often is, is hardly subtle, but there is an appeal to this approach: real humans explicitly ponder these issues, so why not let the characters converse about them as well?
Clarke eschews the rapid-fire plot so common in short sci-fi novels in favor of letting the effects of the contact between the Thalassans and the Earthlings unfold gradually, weaving in thinner threads of the marine life of Thalassa and love triangles (among others).
Certainly not my favorite of his works, though, and I pray that human society will not develop along the lines that Clarke clearly hopes it will.
Humanity has about 1,500 years to figure out how to survive once Earth is gone, and their solution is to send out automated 'seed' ships to likely planets where humans can survive.
One of the more interesting premises of the book is that the colony was given restricted access to human history: they do not know what religion is, or philosophy.
Rather than a seed ship, this ship contains actual people born on the mother world, and their contact wit the Thallasians makes up the central premise of the book.
This book is a great example of hard sci-f-- the characters are all basically ancillary to exploring and explaining the central premise of colonizing other planets in a future where the sun goes nova in about 1600 years from now.
Is it ethical to colonize a planet with only bacteria, possibly altering the course of the evolution of a future intelligent species?
Sure, those are fairly common themes in sci-fi, but Clarke has a way of making you think about them in a practical way instead of just purely philosophically.Great book, highly recommended for anyone who loves the science part of sci-fi.
There is a lot of exposition, some description of the pleasant but stagnant colony of Thalassa and its contact with travelers from Earth, a tepid love story, an unexpected death, and a biological mystery – a few surprises, but no significant conflict or character development.
One may blame this on Clarke's utopian mindset: he found it difficult to imagine a future society plagued by war, scarcity, ecological devastation, religious conflict, or any of the other issues that actually matter to 20th and 21st-century humans.
These were all problems Clarke assumed a 39th-century society would have solved.
By doing this, though, they become something that's not quite human and live a mundane existence where they're not even curious about what life could also be on their planet.
At first I thought I would like to live on Thalassa, but when we learn to what extant humanity's history and culture has been denied them - I don't think it would be a very fulfilling place to live, which is why only a few people opt to stay when the ship moves on to it's final destination.
I absolute adore this book.
It captures a very scientific based scifi setting in the complex relationships of two decidedly separate groups of humans.
One group, seeded on the planet by machinery to create a human society as our sun dies have created a near Utopia, free of the pain and suffering our past leaves us.
The other, survivors of Earth, on a long treck to a new home, fully aware of their past, but entirely ignorant of their own flaws and failures.
I love this book so much, my Uncle managed to get a signed copy for me.
Signed by the late, great Arthur C.
Alguses see lugu mulle meeldis, seejärel sattusin suisa vaimustusse, kuid... on hämmastav, kuidas hea või väga hea lugu, mis on kirja pandus meeldiva kihilisusega, sunnib sind mõtlema äärmiselt paljudes erinevates suundades, inspirrerib su loomingut... ja veel palju muid suuri ja ilusaid sõnu... võib viimase kümne leheküljega totaalselt ribadeks laguneda nii, et sa raamatut sulgedes vaid õlgu kehitad ja mõtled uut haarates: "Noh, mis seal's ikka, on ka hullemaid."
Predivna knjiga, koliko divna toliko i tuzna. Davno sam procitao istoimenu kratku pricu koja me ostavila pod jakim dojmom. Eto trebalo bi spojit kratku pricu i knjigu da bi bila potpuno savrsena. Sve u svemu planeta Talasa i njezin narod su mi se jaako svidjeli i tamo bih volio jednoga dana otputovati (nadajmo se). Definitivna preporuka svakome. Cak i onima koji nisu ljubitelji sf-a
This is by far one the most endearing science fiction novels I have read. There is a CD by Mike Oldfield (from 1994), with same title and based on the novel, that captures perfectly the beauty of Clarke's idea. I would say the novel and the incidental music complement each other perfectly. Both are amazing.
Aunque son episodios cortos, y se entremezclan con la historia de la Tierra moribunda y el desarrollo de Thalassa.El resto de la novela gira en torno al choque cultural de “los últimos terrestres” con los Thalassos, pues los unos cargan con todo el bagaje de la extinta Tierra y los otros se han desarrollado en una sociedad utópica, de modo que está siempre en juego la posibilidad de “contaminar” a los Thalassos con conceptos e ideas que los siglos de educación programada habrían logrado eliminar (la idea de dioses o religiones, la violencia, el patriarcado…).
Copyright 1985 and the source for the film 2010: Odyssey Two. We're rapidly achieving some of the items - the wrist communicator, for example- and my husband claims firmly that the space elevator will be achieved before long.The story is that of a planet "seeded" with humans in advance of the sun going nova and then being visited by the last escaping humans who have stopped on their way to Sagan (!) Two, a planet with no life forms but amenable to manipulation.
Fifty light years from Earth the space ship Magellan needs to rebuild its nose shield so they stop at Thalassa from which there have been no communications for a long time so it is thought that the "seeding" failed.
As a sci fi novel, it is both dated and relevant to our day and age.Of all the Clarke novels I have read, The Songs of Distant Earth is his most romantic, poetic and human.There are so many interesting ideas and discussions in this book that beg to be unraveled but, for the sake of this book review, and because I'm not an expert on subjects like quantum mechanics or scuba diving, I will not go into that rabbit hole.Some scientific ideas don't hold up anymore; for instance, the idea that a whole generation of healthy and high functioning pioneers can be raised by machines with no human supervision.
