https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/138396.The_Walking_Dead_Vol_2
NEWSFLASH #3 This graphic novel (what we superhero nerds call comics to sound less spandexy) is completely devoid of suck and is among the best written, most intelligent zombie stories ever.
Like I said, pretty basic as far as general set up.
(view spoiler)[ One of the characters is pregnant and not sure whether the father is her husband or her husband’s now dead best friend and this adds to the dilemma of whether to keep the child given the lack of medical facilities and food.
The Walking Dead continues! This is the second volume of the softcover editions of "The Walking Dead", collecting the comic book issues from #7 to #12.Creative Team:Writer: Robert KirkmanIllustrators: Charlie Adlard Additional gray tones to inking: Cliff Rathburn Chapter Two MILES BEHIND US  Okay... What the hell are we going to do now? The body count started on the first chapter making them to realize that ANYBODY may be the next one to fall, no character is truly safe here.No one is safe in t

This one starts during the holiday season. How fitting. There is nothing like people being killed by zombies, to put one in the Christmas spirit. :) Meeeeeeeerry Christmas!!!
These graphic novels aren’t just a simple zombie beat down, they’re that too, but the real story is with the characters; it’s about how they learn to carry on and cope with their probable deaths at the hands of a pack of hungry zombies.
It has been established very early how crazy this situation is, and it needed to be done to create the uncertainty that runs through this story; it is impossible to, as clichéd as it sounds, predict what happens next.
These same two characters are very slow to learn, act far too passively and are the embodiment of those that cannot let go of the past.
4.5 starsReally, really good! I still think these comics are much better than the show... I didn't like the artwork as much in this one, however? Is this a new Illustrator? Excited to continue on and read more!
* Andrea / Dale *Those two are actually part of my favorites in the TV show.
Well actually I don't loath Carol in the TV show but I adore Tyreese in both the TV show and the book.
* Maggie / Glenn *Once again, it felt fake.The scene was literally "- The world is ending, let's have sex" *Hershel walks into his daughter and Glenn both naked in bed* "- But dad you don't understand, we love each other!" Please no, don't do that to me...I think that if volume 3 disappoint me again, I'll stop my reading there because the prison is my favorite season (and *crossing fingers* Michonne is supposed to come, and I need a badass woman character!)
BUT WHATEVER YOU DO DON’T TAKE THEM OUT OF YOUR HOLSTERS!(scene)(people make chagrinned faces.)(zombies say, “Gar.”)Not that you would know what to say anyway, but I’m going to make a long speech about feelings right now, so don’t interrupt me because we’re all old men here, except some of the pregnant ladies, and we know that means no interruptions.
And babies make us happy and sad and have incredible marksmanship, but are unpredictable with guns.(scene)(chagrinned faces)BLING!
SCHLAKK!(scene)(people walk over a hill into the sunset with their guns by their sides and their arms around their women, who are also people.)(chagrinned faces with a single tear on each of their cheeks)THE END_____________________________How bad does this story need a sassy gay friend?
I admit it: The Walking Dead descends into cheesy soap territory from time to time.
I admit it: I am a massive geek.BUT ...Every once in a while Kirkman hits a patch of dialogue, almost always at a critical character moment, that rings emotionally pitch perfect.
Take this moment between our "hero," Rick (could he be any more annoyingly one dimensional?) and Herschel:Rick: And you're keeping those ...
A Zombie soap opera can explore that, and it is right now as we speak.AND ...Even though Aldard's art can be sloppy at time, he's penciled some absolute gems that stick with me from this second graphic novel.
So, I'm trying to read this series because I don't want to set my expectations in the TV series.Rick and his pack continues to find a safe shelter in this volume.
It's understandable that they were just trying to make their shelter safe.
I can understand why those inmates react like that to their hostility because of how Rick's pack, particularly his cranky wife, behaved against them.I still have a long way to go before I can finish the entire published volumes of this comic series.
I just hope that I can finish them within a year, even though I also have a long list of to-be-read list of books and other graphic novels.
Volume 1 finished with the gang leaving their campsite outside Atlanta following the showdown between Rick and his police partner Shane and Carl, Rick's son.
Only two made it out alive.
One where they come across something that seems perfect and the other where someone gets injured and it leads them to make new friends.
But what happens when these friends have different views on the zombie apocalypse?
Most of the others tend to be annoying in their own way.
And Rick may be an okay leader, but he is so Mickey Mouse.Food and petrol are tending to be scarcer to come by.
Mucho mejor que el volumen anterior.
Hay momentos de pasividad, con muy pocas cosas pasando, y otros que son mucho más activos (y no hablo sólo de los zombies).
La historia entro y salió rápidamente de la granja, lo cual me agrada porque estar en ese lugar seguro hace que realmente todo se torne en el estilo de telenovela (los dramas familiares toman fuerza, la personalidad de los personajes no cambia porque no hay razones para que lo haga, todos se emparejan) y la verdad es que eso no me interesa mucho.
Me encanto como paso lo de Donna, cuando mostraron ese letrero yo me quedé de .
Boy howdy, business really picked up in this one. There was tons of arguing, cussing, love-making, yelling, whispering, shooting, killing more zombies, zombies killing more people, etc. all throughout the book. I think where this ends is about where I abandoned the TV show. This was a fast-paced page-turner, but I felt like the site dragged on too long. I'm anxious to see what happens from here since there should be some new storylines to uncover for the first time. Boy howdy.
Where the barn is full of walkers, Maggie is annoying as ever (she gets better, don't worry), and Hershel believes that everything is just a phase and a cure will be drawn up soon.Maggie has a lot more siblings, Otis isn't cutely over weight, Shane is already dead, Tyreese has a daughter and she has a boyfriend (that got awkward) and Carl was still shot.Maggie is as forward and annoying as ever...I liked this version more than the show.
But they find a type of salvation at the end which opens up the third volume for lots of activities -- and probably lots of deaths.WrensReads | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram
I really like this comic series.
The artwork in this volume was not as good as the volume 1 artwork by Tony Moore.
I've gotten used to it at this stage but I see Tony Moore's artwork for the covers and I just want him back!
Anyways I'm glad they are going to be staying in the prison for a while because I was getting kind of tired of them being in that RV!
I'm looking forward to reading more of The Walking Dead comics because I feel like things are going to get really crazy soon!
*SMH* It's been a little bit since I read the first volume, and so, as usual, I was a bit concerned that I might have forgotten stuff.
but it's still early in the series and we're still getting to know the main characters anyway, so there's enough info about them to get along with.
I do think that I'm going to have to pick up the pace on reading these though!
Again I really liked the artwork - I love the black and white of the compendium - it kind of captures the bleakness of the situation, you know?
I can't say I enjoyed this one as much as volume 1, but it was still a damn enjoyable graphic novel! It's so interesting to watch how differently the story unfolds from what I'm familiar with on the television show. I have to say that there are a lot of things I strongly prefer in the show (like, um, Beth's existence?), but I'll definitely be continuing the series to watch things progress in their original intended way.
3,5 *Rick und seine Gruppe verlassen ihr Camp nahe Atlanta, nachdem die Bedrohung durch Streuner dort zu groß wurde und ihnen auch langsam die Essensvorräte ausgehen.Außerdem ist Lori schwanger und Rick will ein geeignetes Zuhause für sein(?) Kind finden.Nachdem die Suche zunächst erfolglos verläuft macht sich langsam aber sicher Verzweiflung breit.
Können Hershel und Rick eine gemeinsame Basis finden die ein Zusammenleben ermöglicht?Auch in diesem zweiten Band fallen TWD typisch wieder einige Figuren den Streunern zum Opfer und Kirkman beschäftigt sich umfangreich damit wie wir mit Verlust umgehen.
That's a compliment, because The Walking Dead isn't as much about the zombies as it is about how people survive and adapt.
And they are frightening, gory, and everything that a good zombie should be.
It can be hard to make a zombie scary.
I mean, yes, eaten alive isn't exactly my retirement plan, but I think I'd rather that than to entirely lose myself.
The Walking Dead isn't just about scary zombies, or just about a band of survivors trying to negotiate a post-apocalyptic world.
It's both, and it strikes a good balance between the two, and makes for a gripping read.
***Horror Buddy Read with the Shallow Readers!
This week's criteria: creepy creepers and walkers***I really enjoyed this volume.
For me it is a bit difficult to differentiate between the TV show and the comics sometimes, but I'm getting better.While the artwork is sometimes a bit off for me, some scenes just bleed emotion.
I am so excited for the next volume.But I am so sad that Glenn stayed behind with Maggie.
He's one of my favorites and I only had him for two volumes.
God bless Hershel's pajamas with the butt flap though, even though he is Mega Dick in the comics.
I love it. It's so good and gritty and real!
Rick and his miserable band of survivors leave their camp outside Atlanta and potter about the devastated countryside looking for a safe place to stay.
They find an abandoned gated community that looks safe… AAAAARGGGH!
Then they find a farm that looks safe… AARRRRGH!
He can come up with decent scenarios like putting the survivors into a gated community with some zombies, or the whole situation on the farm with Herschel, but he doesn’t have the ability to make you care about any of the characters.
Oh look some new “characters” to fill up the numbers.
After finishing volume one, I was very happy to stick with the show, but all the references to the comics on Talking Dead roused my curiosity, so I decided to read Miles Behind Us. This book sealed it in my mind: Kirkman is just not that great a writer.
If you've only ever watched The Walking Dead TV show, you can definitely skip the comics and not miss much.
4/5 Stars!Summary:The next installment in this apocalyptic series. Trying to find food and shelter but they find things they never imagined.Dislikes:Lori. End of story.Likes:Honestly, Tyreese I'm loving him. Not that I didn't love him in the show, because I definitely did. The pace of the comic is much quicker too that's keeping me on my toes for sure.Overall:Really pleased with where this is going. I just love this world. Dystopian has my heart. <3
Having a hard time with Carol being so young. And Andreas love interest. #IWatchedTheShowFirstVery enjoyable. I love the pace of this comic, and how much information and development they have in each volume.
And maybe because of that is that I find myself liking the TV Show more than the comic book, for now at least.
He is my favorite!- Some people are still alive here that have died in the TV Show, people I miss, so I like that in the comic they are still alive :D-(view spoiler)[Andrea and Dale are together O.o so gross  (hide spoiler)]At the heart of it though it has everything I love from the TV Show, it is where the TV Show comes from so it's great material.
While I love the story and the characters this volume's illustrators were different and it was a bit difficult to tell some of the characters apart, at times I confused Dale and Herschel, other times I confused almost all the women.This volume touched on finding a safe home to live and regrow, settle down.
Everyone wants to go back to how things were and it looks like the reality and weight of things is sinking in.
Herschel wants to help them and their wounded and do the right thing.
In fact, one of them begins a relationship with someone and I was flipping back, exclaiming "I thought she had a husband and kids!" before I realized it was another woman.
He looks like a Little Person, not a child, particularly the scene in which he's standing with his hat and gun.
I know it's a tense situation and all, but I don't know that you form instant bonds with people just because you're both fighting off zombies.I admit I felt a little sucked in again when the snow melted off the "ALL DEAD DO NOT ENTER" sign, but right now I feel pretty unattached to the series.
I really like Tyresse and Glenn, and even characters like Rick are growing on me.
However, the rest of the characters are kinda interchangeable and weren't easy to tell apart.
At a point, it feels like overload, sorta like:"As you know, Bob, Alice was a doctor at Mercy Hospital.""I know, Corey.
Alice suggested that we danced in the rain - you had a good time, didn't you, Corey?""You know I did, Bob. You always were good at reading people."And so on.
And so forth.However, I do like how any character is vulnerable to dying, the focus on survival, and what is human and what is not.
4.5 ⭐Bastante mejor que el primer volumen. Creo que no le doy las cinco estrellas solo porque algo me dice que seguirá subiendo de nivel.
For instance: best friends turning on each other and kindly old men wanting to rape younger women.
This made me stop for a second, because, as part of my world view I don't believe that people are inherently good but inherently evil.
I believe that we are evil because we are so focused on our own selves and not on what God wants.
It's because of this, I believe, that I have an affinity with the survivors of this zombie apocalypse.
They are not superheroes or warriors but ordinary people doing what they can to survive the rolling horror of a humanity that turns upon itself!
