https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1305519.Conan_the_Conqueror
What I got was a whole lotta this *makes talking motion with hand*.I expected bad writing and I got some of that.
Conan must fight to regain his kingdom.Here's something I didn't expect: a lot of world-building by Howard.
Because so much time is wasted with what feels like inconsequential world-building, in exposition, with characters talking about so-and-so and whosits, the story and action bogs down.
...the hour of the Dragon has come… After reading one of Howard's shortstory collections I discovered he'd also written a full length Conan novel. The one and only - originally written in five parts for the magazine Weird Tales under the title The Hour of the Dragon, then eventually published as a book under a new title. Apparently a publishing company looking to fit this novel in with a themed series of Conan stories decided that Conan the Conqueror was more appropriate. Personally, I like the
Personally, I like the original title better.In this lengthened tale Conan must escape an ancient sorcerer, track down and steal an artifact of great power and take back the throne of Aquilonia from the "rightful" heir, and his accomplices, who have usurped him and thrown his kingdom and people into ruin.This was a pleasure to read.
True, he's mostly hacking his way through obstacles, escaping sorcerers, powers of darkness, and terrible creatures, but in between some of those moments you'll get a glimpse or two of the heart of Conan.
Words ending in "rn" were spelled with an "m." Names were misspelled, so that I had to look them up for their correct spelling.
"From death to death [ The Heart of Ahriman]  came, riding on a river of human blood. Blood feeds it, blood draws it. Its power is greatest when there is blood on the hands that grasp it, when it is wrested by slaughter from its holder. Wherever it gleams, blood is spilt and kingdoms totter, and the forc es of nature are put in turmoil." --  Thutothmes of Khemi (The Hour of The Dragon, by REH)   The Hour of the Dragon (1934-1936), is Robert E. Howard''s only full length novel of Conan, the barb
I read the Berkley Putnam 1977 edition, which has splendid additions to the story: comprehensive foreword and afterwords by Karl Wagner explain how the novel formed prior being serialized in Weird Tales; a map of the Hyborian Age (inspired by REH's own drawings) is essential for the Hyborian ambiances; interior illustrations are bonuses; and cover art by Ken Kelly is stellar.
Missing Chapter Mystery: A deal was accepted but the UK publisher went belly up, so REH worked with Weird Tales to publish the chapters in serial form.
The in-your-face misogyny and high-frequency-chance-encounters/saves is distracting.The Hour of The Dragon is good adventure and represents Conan and REH's Hyboria well.
In this final (chronologically) Conan story, Howard demonstrates why he was one of the best adventure writers of all time.
The story is set during Conan's time as King of Aquilonia, which is a period in the hero's life often overlooked (I'm looking at you, Hollywood.) In act one, King Conan is defeated and the kindom is wrested from his grasp.
I'll leave you with a quote from the book which sums up why Conan is the greatest fantasy hero of all time."His surcoat was gone, his armor splashed with blood and battered with strokes of sword, mace and ax.
I'm reading an online version on Wikisource.
http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/The_Hou...This is a great Conan adventure that winds up showing us a lot of his previous life, so that makes it a lot of fun.
One or two in a short story are fine, but an entire novel was too much.
(hide spoiler)]Still, it was a fun, quick read.
Well worth it, especially if you're a REH or Conan fan.
This is the only Conan novel he ever wrote, one of three.
The others are A Gent From Bear Creek, which is actually just a bunch of short stories tied together, & Almuric.
Upon his presumed death, the barons cannot rally around an heir and thus the center of the kingdom will not hold.* A foozle quest--in this case the Heart of Ahriman--is required to save the kingdom, but the need for it is strongly justified.
* And, unlike many imitators, the Heart is not (now) buried in a eldritch-guarded labyrinthine tomb in some forgotten land.
The puppet king wishes everyone to suffer, to thoroughly ruin and beggar the country, spoiling it for the conquerors.* The turn of fate at the climax of the book is not decided by Conan.
Like the stories of Raymond Chandler or Lovecraft or even Poe, they're just very entertaining and fun.Conan stories vary in quality, but this one, the only full-length novel, has everything you'd want in a ridiculous over-the-top swords and sorcery epic.
What more could you want?This won't convince anyone who finds this kind of thing juvenile and pointless that they're wrong (if anything it will probably do the opposite), but for anyone who's ever been a 14 year old boy (or still is) this is a great read and its entertainment value has not diminished over the decades.
Some wicked dark sorcery in this one.
With this book, Robert E.
Howard proved that he could maintain the skillful prose and pacing of his Conan short stories in a full-length novel.
Wonderful passage:They traversed a long, dark, vaulted corridor in which, Conan noticed uneasily, the skull on the staff glowed phosphorescently.
He felt a surge of unreasoning, wild animal panic that urged him to rip out his knife and slash right and left at these uncanny figures, to flee madly from this grim, dark temple.
For people that don't know, Howard is the Father of Modern day Sword and Sorcery.
For people that think he invented it, all I can say is see the King Arthur legend and even that isn't the first.As for this particular story.
If you think Lord of the Rings etc.
are the centerpieces for fantasy fiction, well you're mistaken.
This right here should and is in my opinion, the crown jewel of fantasy fiction.
An evil wizard with power beyond belief.
Treacherous rulers who plot against the hero.
Oh yea and a magic item which when used against the evil-wizard spells his doom.
Puhas tükk iidsetest ulmekirjanduse katakombidest pärit kulda. Kaetud kummaliste graveeringute, ammu unustatud keeles kirjutatud ruunide ning paljude seda näpata üritanud fantaasiakirjanike aastakümneid tagasi kuivanud vereplekkidega. Salapärane kuju aga särab edasi ja teeb seda ka kaua peale meie surma. Las barbarid uputavad maailma young-adulti või vampiirikroonikate alla, vana artefakt elab kõik nad oma varjatud peidupaigas üle ja särab endiselt kirkalt ka palju aega peale kõigi nende loendamatute fantasytriloogiate põrmuks pudenemist.
There's really nothing like reading a good Conan book.
The Nemedian rulers raised a necromancer from the dead, by the name of Xaltotun of Acheron, to use for their benefit to fight against King Conan and the Aquilonians.
War wages, and the Nemedians and Aquilonians believe they witness the death of King Conan in battle.
The Nemedians trample the Aquilonians and set up their own king, King Valerius, in Conan's place.
After an small battle in the temples and streets of Stygia, Conan regains the Heart of Ahriman.
I can't wait to read the next book in the original series, Conan the Avenger.
My edition is from Berkley. This is Howard's novel of Conan with minimal editing.Howard's only full length novel about Conan, and it contains some sections that are loose rewrites of a few of the Conan stories. This is a really enjoyable novel, with great atomsphere and action.
Spoilers ahead!Conan the Conqueror picks up two years after the events in The Scarlet Citadel, and is essentially the same story expanded into novel length.
One of the highlights of the story for me was Conan's encounter with the vampire, Princess Akivasha, in a Stygian temple, especially when she shares her origin."I am the woman who never died, who never grew old!
Ten thousand years ago I died to live forever!"I also liked the imagery that followed soon after, as Conan is led out of the temple by an undead Stygian priest that had been resurrected by the Heart of Ahriman.
The only Conan novel written by Howard, The Hour of the Dragon delivers everything a fan of the Cimmerian would want - beautiful women needing rescue, several evil wizards to defeat, and a well-paced adventure that has Conan striving to recover the Aquilonian throne and thwart the efforts of Xaltotun to restore the empire of Acheron.
This is the umpteenth time I've read the novel since acquiring this Sci-Fi Book Club edition almost 30 years ago and it's still great fun.I like to believe the following reflects a certain emotional maturation on my part but at this point in my life I can't help but wish some author would write a Conan novel (or short) from his victims' point of view.
To think that as good as Howard was writing Sword & Sorcery he was even better in writing Westerns according to his contemporaries.
Some of what happens is a little too happenstance for me, but that wasn't enough for me to knock this book from 5 stars to 4.
An incredible read; a must read for those of us who are authors of Fantasy and/or Sword & Sorcery.There's a reason Howard is known as the Grandfather of Sword & Sorcery and Howard shows us why he is called that with what he's done here.
When serialized in Weird Tales, it was titled 'Hour of the Dragon,' which de Camp said had little to do with the story.
As if "Conan the Conqueror" does.To me this is the last truly worthwhile book in this series.
The tales after this are almost wholly not Howard's work (unless you count some vague notes), and it shows.
This was my first exposure to Conan, other than Marvel Comics.
I preferred this to the comics, but I prefer the earlier short stories even more.
I think Howard was at his best in the short story, although he does keep things fairly intense even in this longer work.
This basically "Hour of the Dragon" retitled to fit the series demands, and edited by L. Sprague De Camp, even though it really didn't need any editing. Still, the power of the original certainly shines through here.
Hard to beat the original Conan. The character never dies... Conan is forever.
That his use of the active voice was almost without parallel?I could, but that's all been said before.What I can say is that I've been reading Howard's tales of the giant Cimmerian since I was 10 and, now at three score and ten, I still enjoy them.Howard created a forgotten age in his Conan stories and it's a world that's full of anachronisms.
It's a story that has every element a reader could ask for: Betrayals, battles, intrigue, brave women willing to risk everything, and - of course - Conan.Admittedly, this genre isn't for everyone.
Can Epic Fantasy get any better than this?
In the only Conan novel written by Robert E.
Howard himself, an evil wizard dead for 3,000 years is resurrected by a group of usurpers to help them take over Conan's throne in Aquilonia, and ultimately, take over the entire Hyborian kingdoms.
Conan is what he is.
Really amazing when you realize this was written in the 1930's before Epic Fantasy was a thing and before the market was flooded with countless imitators of Howard (and Tolkien).
And speaking of Tolkien, I will not be surprised if he had read Hour of the Dragon.
Influential early sword and sorcery with Conan himself throwing his weight around and lopping off heads all around. Fairly poor "see the join" writing, but with main plus point being the surprisingly detailed world-building (both physical and socio-political) and some of the action sequences were pretty good and some of the "black sorcery" was nicely atmospheric. Shortish, fun and never dragged, I'd probably read this again to be fair - 3.5 stars, but can't round up cos just too clunky.
αναμφίβολα η πιο ολκληρωμενη και γεματη ιστορια του κοναν...η λιγοτερο βαρβατιλα...αλλα πολυ ενδιαφερουσα με ωραια γραφη και πολλες ωραιες ιδεες...
Е точно това не ми хареса. Не знам защо, ама четенето беше чиста мъка. Две звездички отгоре заради баце Конан, че, както всички знаем, той е най-големия, ама... излагация. Даже и годината на написване (1934) не го оправдава :(
I GOTTA DO A WAR" and of course they're all like "OH MAN YOU KILLED THOSE SLAVERS SO GOOD WE'RE TOTALLY GONNA ROW SOME MORE FOR YOU."A war happens, and the necromancer mummy would've won if not for the joint efforts of suicidally heroic commoners who love Conan so much they will HAPPILY die for him, and also a friendly wizard he recruited to Tap 2 Blue Mana and Counterspell everything the necromancer mummy tries to do.
Every short story, his most recent love interest is messily disemboweled by someone who Conan must, in turn, messily disembowel, then broodingly stare at a fire and swear further revenge on whatever's available.
Howard ever wrote about Conan, and somehow I never got around to reading it.
Plus: a lot of voluptuous women throw themselves at Conan.
Personally, I find judging writers from decades (or centuries) ago by our modern standards to be a bit self-serving, but that's how things are developing in the good old US of A.
No matter how fun these stories are to read, the author's worldview is pretty primitive.
To cleanse myself of Howard's nastiness (even as I still love his stories), I will read about the one and only black barbarian hero, Imaro.
They use magic to collapse the cliff on Conan during a battle, but it was only a stand-in.
Conan was struck down by a shadow in his tent before the battle and could not ride out.
He rails as his army is left leaderless and lost; thousands routed and killed.But the four forgot to check with Xaltotun and he has plans of his own that don’t include killing Conan.
A mistake; as Conan learns that the only way to kill this magical being is by destroying a sacred stone (the Heart of Ahriman) that contains his life.
Conan is unstoppable.
In THE HOUR OF THE DRAGON, Howard wastes little time on characterization or description, instead focusing on headlong forward momentum for his plot wherein Conan confronts a fantastically evil wizard returned from the dead to remake the realm into a slave empire.
The hero undertakes an epic quest to find an all-powerful gemstone needed to return the demon wizard to dust.
Needless to say, despite confronting virtually every danger real and magical imaginable, Conan crushes his opponents and wins the day, in the process marrying a poor woman and turning her into his queen.The story isn't really a novel despite it's length; the protagonist doesn't change a bit over its course, but from the first sentence, the reader is pulled into his fantastical world.
Easily the best Conan story, not only by being the longest but also for referencing most of whatever Conan did in past adventures (most of which had not been written yet by Howard but were used as a blueprint for his next stories).
Despite being epic in scope, it also suffers from a lot of silly character motivations.
It’s silly fun and I like the breezy style and the senseless violence, but it’s not like it has stellar writing or hasn’t been rehashed a billion times in other stories (some of which were also Howard’s).
It is the only book length telling of the Conan sagas and one of the Howard works L.
I came of age as a boy to the Conan tales.
Howard helped me define my manhood, yeah, that may be pathetic to some, but in an alcoholic household with an absentee father - it was a big help to a confused, searching kid.
I have enjoyed all of the Howard pastiches by Decamp and Carter growing up and it made a life-long Howard/Conan fan out of me.
R.E. Howard's best stories are his westerns and boxing stories in my opinion.
His writing is not the best, but he can tell a tale....
