https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29579.Foundation
There are some interesting elements to it (for instance, the use of religion as a tool of mass control and the implicit resultant argument that religion is no more than a fraud, "the opiate of the people," after all), but the book gave me little to enjoy or dig into.
One leader says, in fact, in response to a crisis, the threat of warfare and annihilation, "I'm going to do nothing.
All else is done by and to men.There are a couple of minor things I do like about the book.
A great story, told in a terribly boring fashion. One-dimensional characters engaged in various trade negotiations, political upheavals and general planning. Dry beyond belief. The concepts are very engaging--religion as a means of control, psychohistory, etc--but the telling of the story leaves much to be desired. Some sections are much better than others, particularly 1 & 3. There is a really good story between the lines here; one that I think would work much, much better as a television series.
He has used this field of academia to predict the future, and because of this he can alter events, long after his death, and guide his fledgling civilisation into power.The old empire will crumble in exactly 300 years, so he manipulates the ruling body to send him, and his following, to a remote planet that will eventually develop into something grand.
He predicted that it would take 1000 years for the new empire to be born.
I’m a realist, I know he couldn’t have told the story any other way, but for me it lacked the human angle.
born in the 11,988th year of the Galactic Era; died 12,069»The life of the brilliant mathematician Hari Seldon, protagonist of the two prequels to Foundation series, draws to a close.
nato nell'anno 11.988 dell'Era Galattica, morto nel 12.069»La vita del matematico Hari Seldon, protagonista dei due prequel al Ciclo delle Fondazioni, volge al termine.
Ma, grazie alla psicostoria, la complicata disciplina fondata da lui stesso allo scopo di predire i comportamenti delle masse nel tempo, ha calcolato tutto.
Lascia in eredità alle generazioni future delle preziose indicazioni allo scopo di evitare decine di millenni di barbarie intergalattiche.
It is not even a novel, but a set of stories who present a series of political, sociological, psychological and religious ideas all based on the famous Psychohistory concept.
To use religion to control planets was a brilliant and scary idea and it felt the most interesting part of the book.
Still, I could not observe a phrase that went something like this: On the Foundation planet (forgot its name) there were X people together with their wives and children.
So wives are not people, interesting idea.

Isaac Asimov's sprawling scifi tale is the rock on which much of today's space opera is built.
Foundation has all the elements of poor writing that makes stuffy literary aristocrats stick their noses up at the genre.
If I had not first read Foundation in my thirties but instead in my teens this review would like be entitled "Asimov is like chewing on expensive snuff!".
Hopefully before I'm dust a clever New Space Opera idea about extending human life expectancy will give me more time to explore books about advanced civilizations prone to cancer of the mouth due to snuff addictions.
Asimov curtails the worse parts of the Roman empire by having the Foundation eventually focus upon economics as a last-ditch stopping point before outright violence overwhelms the rest of the galaxy.It's not a perfect solution, but this is merely the first of three novels that absolutely need to be read together.
527. Foundation (Foundation, #1), Isaac AsimovThe Foundation series is a science fiction book series written by American author Isaac Asimov. For nearly thirty years, the series was a trilogy: Foundation, Foundation and Empire, and Second Foundation. It won the one-time Hugo Award for "Best All-Time Series" in 1966. Asimov began adding to the series in 1981, with two sequels: Foundation's Edge, Foundation and Earth, and two prequels: Prelude to Foundation, Forward the Foundation. The additions m
The additions made reference to events in Asimov's Robot and Empire series, indicating that they were also set in the same fictional universe.عنوانها: ظهور امپراتوری کهکشانها؛ ظهور امپراطوری کهکشانها (هفت کتاب)؛ نویسنده: ایزاک آسیموف؛ انتشاراتیها: (شقایق، نی نامه)؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه سپتامبر سال 1994 میلادیعنوان: ظهور امپراطوری کهکشانها - کتاب نخست از هفت گانه بنیاد؛ نویسنده: آیزاک آسیموف؛ مترجم: محمد فیروزبخت؛ تهران، شقایق، 1371؛ در 474 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، نی نامه، 1382، در 474 ص، شابک: 9649521542؛ موضوع: داستانهای علمی و خیال انگیز از نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 مسه گانه را بارها خوانده ام و گاه کتابها را گم کرده ام و دوباره یافته ام، اما مجموعهٔ «بنیاد»، نام مجموعه‌ ای هفت جلدی، از آیزاک آسیموف است، که مشهورترین مجموعهٔ علمی-تخیلی خوانده شده‌ است.
Absolutely Loved it! Hail Asimov! He is brilliant! His writing is enchanting and filled with awe inspiring genius. Work of sheer Ingenuity! Height of Inventiveness!........................................................
The Foundation trilogy (three first books) and the Foundation series (all seven) are often regarded as the greatest set of Science Fiction literature ever produced.
This book and the rest in the series take place far in the future (allegedly 50,000 years) at a time when people live throughout the Galaxy.
Hari Seldon predicts the demise of the Galactic Empire and creates a plan to save the knowledge of the human race in a huge encyclopedia and also to shorten the barbaric period expected to follow the demise from 30,000 years to 1,000 years.
So reread the series from the beginning it is then; no great hardship really, a fun time is already guaranteed, and the three volumes combined are shorter than a single book by Peter F.
In this volume we meet the legendary Hari Seldon, the founder of the Foundation and ultra-brilliant “psychohistorian”, who is able to predict the future through mathematical algorithms combined with history, sociology and goodness knows what else.
He is not great prose stylist (witness the ample use of exclamation marks in the narrative), nor did he need to be for the type of stories he wanted to tell.
Este sí me ha gustado bastante ! Tal vez cometí el error de no leer la saga en el orden en que se publicó, ya veremos.
psychohistory - "that branch of mathematics which deals with the reactions of human conglomerates to fixed social and economic stimuli" - says that the patterns and cycles of human societies can be accurately predicted.Hari Seldon - that genius psychohistorian whose homely visage speaks to his followers hundreds of years after his death - says that the Empire must fall and that thousands of years of barbarism must follow.The Foundation - that secretive colony of scientists established by Seldon on the planet Terminus - says that they will be humanity's last hope for shortening those thousands of years of barbarism and building humanity back up to its former glory.Isaac Asimov - that celebrated science fiction Grand Master and clear-eyed progressive - says that he can fix up five linked stories and make of them a single novel with a single-minded purpose, a novel with prose that is straightforward but often witty and resonant, and a narrative that moves forward swiftly but with a decidedly fateful inevitability.mark monday - that dilettante - says that this novel was a pleasure to read.
Isaac Asimov's Foundation is a good start to a great series!
Really like the idea of Hari Seldon, the psychohistorian at the heart of the Foundation Series.
Even though he largely disappears after the book's beginning, much of the subsequent action is based on his predictions.
During this reading, he reminded me of futurists I've been following who tell us about trends and what our world will look like in 20 or 30 or 50 years from now.
The downside is that the actual writing isn't great for this first book in the series.
The story is a series of novellas set at various points during the first two centuries of the foundation, and chronicle the future and developments of Hari Seldon’s ideal.The internal workings and tenets of the Foundation are quite interesting, mainly how it manipulates, threatens and employs divide and conquer strategies to combat those who would seize its resources, all without using violence.
More?Most importantly, this book has become such a solid pillar of the genre, sending ripples through the future into the minds of later science fiction authors who became the heirs to Asimov’s legacy.
Isaac Asimov’s most famous series is indeed a foundation for the genre of science fiction to stand on and develop from.
Probably the most interesting thing about this book (and, I assume, the rest of the series) is the millennia-spanning time scale of its narrative, which Asimov handles by establishing Hari Seldon's statistical prophesy, and then dropping in at critical junctures to investigate how individuals contrive to fulfill that prophecy.
Characters are always saying, "Oh, it's a Seldon crisis, we should make sure we don't screw this up." Of course they won't screw it up.This is also a universe of white guys.
I think there is one woman in the entire book, and she's a petulant, impotent princess who's easily impressed by fancy jewelry.
Call it an identification of myself with that mystical generalization to which we refer by the term, 'humanity.'"I have read exactly fourteen novels and countless short-stories written by this genius of a man (because people, he's a genius.
And I know that Asimov's literary production has never shone for and didn't make his fortune thanks to its cast, but truth be told I've always had a particular weakness for his characters, especially his robots (yes, believe it or not, this man created the most human and robotic robots I've ever read about.
I highly recommend Foundation to anyone who professes to have a grain of interest in Sci-Fi. The political intrigue, religious undertones, innovative sci-fi thoeories, world building, and epic scope make Foundation one of the most worthy reads of speculative fiction.The premise is that the genius, Harry Seldon, has created and perfected a new science, phychohistory, a form of advanced statistics, to the degree that he can mathematically predict and guide the future of extremely large population samples.
Asimov sets up Seldon to be a God-figure and explains his powers to predict and guide the future by his genius wielding of psychohistory.
His plan, simply put, is to shorten the period of the "dark ages" (from the predicted 30.000 to 1.000 years).The second takes place 50 years later when the so-called Enyclopedia Galactica (a collection of all the knowledge of the doomed Galactic Empire) is already under way but politics interfere with progress.
Before, I thought it was a great idea to preserve technology and shorten the "dark ages" but I despise religion and this one is no different.The fourth story takes place 55 years after the third (135 years after the start of the book) and introduces the traders that bring technology to the far corners of the galaxy in order to expand the influence of the Foundation (financial and political).
Si, eso es bastante ficticio, pero los problemas que presenta o va a presentar según nuestro psicohistoriador Hari Seldon, tienen las bases mas realistas que se puedan imaginar, y mas de una vez te acordaras de eventos pasados o presentes de nuestro planeta.Excluyendo la primera parte, el personaje principal de las otras 4 es siempre alguien con ambición al poder.
Y es que Fundación trata sobre las razones por las cuales una sociedad cae estancamiento de aprendizaje, sobredependencia del exterior, etc y las que necesita para levantarse conocimiento de ciencia, historia, arquitectura, etc.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.The Dead Hand: "Foundation" by Isaac AsimovIf I remember rightly, Asimov's robots do indeed find a cunning way around the three laws - they invent a Zero-th Law which states that "no robot can injure humanity or through inaction allow humanity to come to harm" which doesn't directly contradict the First Law, so their brains will accept it, but has the interesting effect in moral philosophical terms of turning them from Kantians to utilitarians.
Rather than becoming brutal overlords because of this (as the other laws still apply) they end up guiding the development of humanity quietly from the shadows, taking on a role not a billion kilometers from Ian M.
Herkesin birkaç gün içinde okuyabileceği, aklı erenin de alt metnini çok kolay kavrayabileceği bir eser.
Beni düşündüren birkaç nokta oldu: İlki yazarın seçmiş olduğu sıçramalarla ilerleyen anlatım tekniği.
Aradaki boşlukların çok önemli olmadığı, anlatılan zamanın metninde yeterince hissettirilmiş olsa bile çizgisel bir akış bekliyordum.
İçinde mantık olsa bile bu kadar kesin ve güçlü öngörü üretebiliyor olması hikayeye inancımın önünü kesiyor.
Diğer yandan Galaktik'de geçen öykünün Roma Imparatorluğundan örneklenerek kurgulanmış olması çok hoşuma gitti.
Ticaretin hükümleri verdiği noktaya kadar olan akışı, tarih kitapları içinde de bulmak farklı bir lezzet sunuyor.İlk kitap beklentilerimi tamamen karşılamamış olsa bile güvendiğim nerdeyse bütün otoritelerin seriyi baş tacı etmesi sonrasında dair umudumu ayakta tutuyor.
Highly recommended to anyone and everyone!The introduction tells the story of how Isaac Asimov came up with the idea for this series (the fall of the Roman Empire in space basically) and how the original publication proceeded.
The interesting part came when he'd completed the trilogy and was very much done with the Foundation novels, but could not escape their popularity and was eventually strongly persuaded by his publishing company to write more Foundation novels.
When he re-read his trilogy, he found that he did have a lot of unanswered questions and there was a lot more to write, and so he wrote the sequels and prequels.
I'll be reading this series in publishing order.
One of my all time favourite books, I first read this many years ago and as books have been added to the original trilogy I have re-read the whole series. I feel that IA pulled the stories together well, so the Robot novels all join with the Empire novels, what a master.Well I re-read it again (2nd time GR officially, umpteenth time un-officially) and realise (yet again) what a marvellous book it is. Yes it is split as a collection of stories but Asimov is such a master story-teller it all hangs together so so well. Still 5 stars.
This is where Science Fiction especially Space Opera first started. Any fan of Science Fiction has to read this, this is the father of all Science Fiction. Its why its called Foundation. It is the Foundation of science fiction.
This book is a collection of 5 short stories, in chronological order, concerning the establishment of the "First Foundation" and how it survived and thrived on the outer edges of the galaxy as the original Galactic Empire began to wane and decline.
Asimov's heroes/protagonists are usually men (and sometimes women, though not in this book) of thought rather than action, but they outwit (or sometimes simply outwait) their antagonists.
I recommend it to any science fiction fan who hasn't ever read, if just to see what the fuss was about.
If you are a history fan like me as well, then that helps with the enjoyment of Asimov's "Future History." Still 5 stars as far as I'm concerned.
This is a very interesting book full politics and intrigue. Actually not a lot really happens but the author provides a lot of food for thought. Some times I felt the writing was just a bit too dry and the characters a bit too bland. Overall however it is a classic piece of science fiction and I am happy I have read it.
$1.99 Kindle sale, July 23, 2017. One of my very favorite old Golden Age SF novels. The old empire is dying, says one Hari Selden, a brilliant historian and statistician, even though hardly anyone believes him. Can he and his followers use their knowledge of history and human behavior to build a better galactic society when the current empire collapses? A quick and absorbing read that's great fun.I cut my science fiction-lovin' teeth on this trilogy. Asimov was brilliant.Read count: I dunno, 4 or 5 times?
ince ince işlenmiş kurgulanmış. bilimkurgunun bu unutulmaz serisine başlamaktan mutluluk duydum
