https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23398667-the-flemish-house
Most of the classical mystery authors I know about are either Americans or British.
And this Belgium Author didn't disappoint me at all.
The story revolves around the Peeters, a Flemish family who run a grocery shop and a bar, and who are accused of murdering a local girl named Germaine Piedbeouf.
So every month she goes to the Flemish house to collect the money for child support.
Chief Inspector Maigret is sent there form Paris (unofficially) on the request of one of his wife's cousins (who's a friend of the Peeters) to investigate the matter and put it to an end once and for all.
Anna’s brother Joseph, a law student in Nancy 200 kilometers away, is believed to have fathered a child with a lower-class local lass named Germaine Piedboeuf; understandably for the time (the novel, first released in English in 1940 as The Flemish Shop), this bourgeois family insists that “it’s never been proved” and heap scorn on the girl — but, even so, they slip her a monthly maintenance of 100 francs for herself and JoJo, now two-and-a-half.But, on Jan. 3, after a row at the Flemish House, Germaine disappears.
All of Givet, resentful of the Flemish and well-to-do Peeters family, believes the family guilty.
Maigret is always one step ahead of the poor Machere leading the enquiry which is clearly murder when the women's body is found; Maigret often frustrates his colleague by knowing what he is about to disclose and by his success when the other has failed to move things along.I love the characters so tidily drawn and the inner conflicts in human beings that are exposed in the story.
I like very much the confusion the reader feels along with the hapless Machere while Maigret clearly understands the dynamics of the crime.
A letter from one of his wife’s cousins has forwarded a request from her brother-in-law that he assist Anna Peeters, the daughter of a Flemish family that runs a grocery store and bar in Givet.
Joseph Peeters, Anna’s brother, has carried on a long- term affair with a local girl, Germaine Piedbeouf.
The Peeters pay child support, but Germaine has not been seen since the night she went to collect from the family now almost a month ago.
During the affair, after the birth of the child, and in the present circumstances, Joseph has remained engaged to his lovely cousin, Marguerite.
Premetto che non riesco ad essere oggettivo nel valutare i romanzi di Simenon con protagonista Maigr
A wonderfully concise study of a small town and a family in crisis, but with an ending I couldn't quite figure out.
She's seeking Maigret's help because her beloved brother is the chief suspect in the disappearance, because he got the young woman pregnant but wants to marry someone else.
Rain pelts the town constantly -- this may be the rainiest book I've ever read -- and the river roars through town, potentially sweeping away any evidence of a body, much less of a murder.
Yet before the book is over the body has turned up and Maigret has figured out where the murder weapon is and who did the crime.
Θέλω να πιστεύω ότι σε μεγάλο ποσοστό ευθυνόταν η αγγλική μετάφραση ή απλά έτυχα σε ένα από τα «κακά» του βιβλία, δεν είναι δυνατόν να γράφει έτσι και να τον λατρεύουν τόσοι.
Ήταν λες και το έγραψε 15χρονο με Lower.
Οι χαρακτήρες και οι διάλογοι ήταν εντελώς αφύσικοι, οι περιγραφές σαν να αναγκαζόταν ο συγγραφέας να γράψει κάτι για να γεμίσει τα κενά.
Η πλοκή ήταν αδικαιολόγητα αδιάφορη για ένα τόσο μικρό βιβλίο.
Γενικά όπως καταλάβατε δεν το απόλαυσα καθόλου και η ύπαρξή του θα ξεχαστεί σύντομα.
Αν ξαναδιαβάσω Simenon, θα είναι σίγουρα στα ελληνικά.
A short take:Maigret solves a mystery by taking in the daily rhythms of the place where the crime went down; in this case, Maigret is in Flemish territory, and the mish-mash of French and Flemish culture in interwar Europe makes for a fascinating setting. I do believe that I adore this series and I am so happy that so many books remain.
There is a lot of description of facial expressions, body posture, sweating, and description of inter family reactions.
In this one he paints a picture of a flemish family on the border of France which has developed a whole kind of hero worship of their son.
I supposed you could say there are clues given so that the reader might figure out who the guilty party is but it is not like our modern mysteries.
I suppose also that it is interesting to read "thrillers" written from 1931.
Another superb Maigret crime novel, and novel of character, time, and place.The adored son in a Flemish grocer family, whose business spans the French/Belgian border, and is in a small fishing port, has fathered a child with a local French girl.
She has disappeared, and suspicion has fallen on the Flemish family of father, mother, and three daughters.
Is this because the poorer French locals envy those more successful than themselves, or is there grounds for suspicion?
Is the girl dead?Maigret is called in to investigate, and he quietly worms his way into understanding the people, and solving the mystery.
Atmosfere superlative, niente da dire. Peccato il finale senza una vera catarsi.
Sometimes, an unexpected moment of irresistible poignance.
Simenon is no great friend of the Dutch or the Flemish, or at least of the austerity and sombreness with which they are supposedly endowed with. But then, he has no great love for the middling classes. All in all though, another great read and an intriguing story
Anche in questo caso una presenza femminile, un amore, una trasgressione permea il tessuto famigliare per minarlo definitivamente.Ormai al ventesimo Simenon circa ho notato che mi piace citare un passaggio o una scena di quelle che ritengo meglio riuscite o più felici.
There is nothing like one of Georges Simenon's many Inspector Maigret novels to make me feel all Christmas-like on the inside.
I don't exactly know why, but I like reading a good mystery just when the whether starts turning cold.
Maigret and the Flemish Shop  (1941) is a little gem.
It is always delightful to see the tall French detective suss out a case and come to his conclusions -- usually long before we can.This is a tightly written book and a pleasure to read from start to finish.
I have always enjoyed the laissez faire attitude of Maigret during his investigations and this one delivers to the same level as his preceding ones have. Enjoyable police procedural set at the France Belgium border - not a lot of action but enjoyable to follow along on his investigation of the disappearance of the mother of a child by a young Flemish man and the suspicion that his family killed her.
Ce livre m'a vraiment déçu. L'intrigue est très simple, les personnages invraisemblables, le dénouement ridicule. La seule chose qui me fait prendre mon parti de ce roman, c'est la description vivante de l'atmosphère d'une petite ville semi-flamande qui vit de la fleuve y coulant en travers et de la contrebande que celle-ci permets. Certaines images laissent une empreinte dans l'esprit.
Simply the most atmospheric, not say claustrophobic, of the Maigret novels. It rains - and how it rains.
The story is simple - blue eyed and beloved son of well to do Flemish family of grocers gets local girl pregnant, but refuses to marry her.
Local girl goes missing, and is eventually found dead, with her brains bashed out.
Lots of alcohol is drunk - beer, hot rum toddy (Maigret has a cold), and a great deal of "genever" (Belgian gin) - sold in gallons by the Flemish grocers and drunk by the locals.
Maigret is also terribly rude to the local Flemish police, which makes him rather less than endearing.
And he was in a bad mood.
He had the blank face, the stubborn brow of his bad days.
In fact, he wanted to do something incongruous just to disrupt all the harmony that surrounded him."Maigret #14.
So far the most consistent element in the Maigret novels I have read is they are more focused on character, situation, and place than a crime.
Crimes are often the starting point for Maigret, but often it is the slow unveiling of character and motive that is the most compelling part of the writing.
An apparently simple story has many complexities to it - the working class woman had had an illegitimate child by the son of a well to do local family.
Could the son be angry at the cost in maintainance and the difficulties to his ongoing engagement to the diaphanous Marguerite?
What about the missing woman's bad tempered brother?
Or the local bargeman with a police record for indecent assault?Simenon's descriptions of the lace really bring the account alive- a small town on the flooded River Meuse in January, the juxtaposition of the cosy houses with the mud and grey skies.
En esta ocasión, Maigret viaja a Givet, pequeño poblado sobre el Mosa, en la frontera entre Francia 
Ωραίο ήταν. Δεν με ενθουσίασε τρελά σε σημείο που να μην μπορώ να το αφήσω από τα χέρια μου, αλλά το διάβασα πολύ ευχάριστα. Ήταν η πρώτη επαφή μου με τον Μαιγκρέ και νομίζω ότι θα συνεχίσω να διαβάσω και άλλες περιπέτειές του. Απ' ό,τι μου είπαν, αυτό το βιβλίο δεν είναι και από τα καλύτερα της σειράς.Έχει κάποια κενά (κυρίως στο τέλος, που ο πρωταγωνιστής δεν κάνει καμία σύλληψη), είναι λίγο προβλέψιμο, δεν σε αφήνει να μπεις βαθιά στην ψυχοσύνθεση των ηρώων. Αλλά πρέπει να λάβουμε υπ' όψιν μας και την χρονολογία που γράφτηκε.
Pour l'atmosphère - c'est un des meilleurs Maigret, comparable à "Le charretier de la Providence". Sans doute, Anna est un personnage tragique, avec sa haine pathologique des hommes et amour obsessif du frère. Mais elle est aussi une criminelle qui a commis un meurtre prémédité et particulièrement cruel. Maigret avait-il raison de la laisser partir? Au temps de la peine capitale peut-être que oui. Mais avec les sensibilités d'aujourd'hui probablement que non.
I didn't think this was all that great. I have never been that interested in who done its. Either I totally missed the clues, or there were none - so there really wasn't much of interest to me in this book. I was thankful that it is a short book.Who knows, maybe if I could read French I would better appreciate it in its original language.
One of the shorter Maigret puzzles, this one moves along quite fast. Maigret starts out behind the eight ball in this one, arriving in a town where the locals already don't like him. The scenes are set beautifully and that characters a richly drawn. You will not know who to trust. Plenty of rain, cold ambiance, and pipe smoking. Everything you want from a good Simenon novel.
La bravura di Simenon è di costruire in romanzi molto brevi un mondo e una storia coinvolgenti. Un Maigret fuori Parigi, che indaga con la sua solita aria solo apparentemente svagata. Una famiglia, i fiamminghi, borghese, ricca, colta, eppure chiusa in se stessa. Una copertina come sempre strepitosa con le foto in bianco e nero di Adelphi.
The writing is very brusque, and often cuts off mid-thought. Definite economy of thought. Mostly I thought the mystery was just okay, though the explanation of a family's turmoil made sense at the end.
Each Penguin English language of Georges Simenon's Inspector Maigret is outstanding! Rich, fascinating, beautifully translated,--highlighting his writing style and preserving the idiomatic expression honestly. This work, like the others which are being republished, does not disappoint.
Maigret seems to enjoy his Flemish rice tarts in this one., but tells his wife he does not remember what he ate in the border town of Givet when he returns to Paris. For the sake of further analysis, I may have to bake up one of these tarts.
