https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/180616.Pinocchio
Disney’s version has the general gist of Collodi’s story while playing up the parts that children will enjoy best from the whale to the Blue Fairy to Pleasure Island.
The story does skip from one thing to another a bit quickly but it works for children.
Lots of things to highlight for children here too: the importance of going to school, telling the truth and the good feeling you get from helping people.
The Disney version was my favorite as a small kid and I still love it. I think the original book had a lot more going on and in some ways, it seemed more realistic to me. Disney version is exactly like a fairy tale. I think I love both the versions.But this book has some missing parts like the part where Pinocchio's nose grows is not at all there.
A favorite classic book which I grew up with. A very convincing story for children.
Geppetto is overwhelmed when his puppet called Pinocchio becomes a real boy.
When Pinocchio is asked by the shop assistant if the money was for the cakes he lies and his nose starts to grow.
Children (with Italian) from the age of 5 would be able to understand and enjoy this book.
It can also be read to children with no Italian as the book has a lot of colourful illustrations and the adventures are short and easy to understand.
I love the choice of the characters: the fairy, Mangiafuoco and “ Grillo Parlante” (talking cricket).
I loved watching the movie for this book. I'm a fan of the book, however, I prefer to watch the movie over reading the book. This book actually makes me feel more sad than the movie does. I think that the illustrations from the book are great, but I just am not a huge fan. The movie, in my opinion, teaches better life lessons than the book.
It's interesting to read the Disney Golden Book version of Pinocchio right on the heals of original Collodi version.
In their brevity, they both try to make a coherent story out of Collodi's rambling allegories.Characters that survive the transition from Collodi to Disney are Pinocchio, Geppetto, the Blue Fairy, the cat and fox (renamed), the puppeteer (now named Stromboli), the cricket (now named Jiminy), and the giant ship eating sea creature (changed from a shark to a whale and named Monstro).
A lot of these Disney books take one scene from the movie and focus on that, rather than telling the full story.
Perhaps it's to make extra money by selling each scene as a separate book?
This book does an excellent job of telling a stripped-down, fully illustrated version of the Pinocchio movie.
The colors are more in the "bright, vibrant, kid-friendly" vein than the soft hues of the groundbreakingly animated movie, but it's still an excellent book to have on hand.
This book was ok.
The book covered the entire movie and was pretty much just a detailed summary of everything that happened in the movie.
There was a little more of the dialogue from the movie which a lot of books like these don't have so that was nice.
The pictures were taken right from the movie so that was also great.
I thought it seemed a little dry and needed some extra detail to bring out the emotion felt in the movie.
Fans of Disney and Pinocchio will probably enjoy this book but it's not one of my favorites.
Family favourite at our house and I love to see the look on the little ones faces when I say your nose is growing. What am I like.
The final story I choose to read was the tall tale Pinocchio.
This story is an exaggeration of what can happen if you lie to others.
Pinocchio’s noes grew with every lie and while student know that it is impossible for a noes to grow when they lie the story helps them understand the negative consequences that might happen if they fib.
I really enjoyed reading this story because I have heard references to it my whole life, and never saw the movie or read the book.
I think this story is valuable and would be great for students to learn morals, and honesty.
Gepetto is an elderly man who made a wooden puppet named Pinocchio. One day, Gepetto wished upon a star that Pinocchio would turn into a real boy. His wish came true and he grew a conscience. After a lot of trials and tribulations, Pinocchio proves he is worthy of being a real boy and stays like that forever. This is a well written story, however, I don’t think I would read it to my class. I think the concept is too realistic for them to understand fully.
This story is fun and impressive. And very good thing is we can learn many things about this book.First, lie is bad thing. Second, love family. And more things. Pinocchio looks like child. He like playing, and good at be deceived. This book include adventure story. And I found interesting things, and that is 'if people lying, people's nose are longer and longer'. This is real story. So, I recommend this book.
Pinocchio is an admirable story for all ages, having been popular for years and years. Pinocchio has a conscience just like we do. His conscience is named Jimmy Cricket. Sometimes Pinocchio makes the wrong choices, like we do, and always reaps the consequences. But when he chooses the right, he is blessed, just like we are. I love this story!
A very fun classic! This book is about a boy who tells lies but when he does his nose grows. Finally at the end he confesses to all of his lies and his nose returns to normal. I love this book because it teaches students that lying is bad. This book is defiantly different than the movie but in a good way!
যখন আমি কলাস ওয়ান-এ পড়ি, তখন এইটা আমার মামা আমাকে কিনে দেয়। এটাই আমার পড়া পরথম বই। এর আগে শুধুমাতর চাচা চৌধুরির কমিকস পড়া হয়েছিল। এইরকম নোভেল টাইপ বই পড়া হয়নি। অনেক সুনদর একটি কাহিনী ছিল। বইটা তখনকার সময়ে অনেকবার পড়েছি।
যখন আমি ক্লাস ওয়ান-এ পড়ি, তখন এইটা আমার মামা আমাকে কিনে দেয়। এটাই আমার পড়া প্রথম বই। এর আগে শুধুমাত্র চাচা চৌধুরির কমিক্স পড়া হয়েছিল। এইরকম নোভেল টাইপ বই পড়া হয়নি। অনেক সুন্দর একটি কাহিনী ছিল। বইটা তখনকার সময়ে অনেকবার পড়েছি।
Little Golden Books – Pinocchio Nice to return to these first reads of mine.
Traditional lit- A man makesa boy out of wood and he comes to life. The boy lies and his nose grows longer.
This is a cute book which follows along with the movie. If your child loves the movie, this is a good book to give them.
Dokładna adaptacja bajki filmowej.
This is my favorite children's story of all time. And Monstro still scares me!
The Walt Disney book is very good. I have to say though that the Walt Disney movie is so much better with the music and details.
This book follows Geppetto as he creates puppets and Pinocchio (one of Geppetto's puppets) and his journey to be a real boy! He makes a lot of friends and even some enemies along the way.
definitely different from the movie but still really good!!!
I enjoyed the illustrations and it was a bit less weird than the original by Carlo Collodi!
This story is one I rarely read or watched in movie form as a child.
They could learn all of this while reading a classic fairytale, something many of them will probably already be aware of.
I think it is important to incorporate stories like these classics in he classroom because children should be able to read stories that relate to their interests and fairytales and Disney stories are appropriate for their age.
Many children just know Disney fairytales as movies, too, so giving them the chance to read rather than watch their favorite Disney fairytale could be beneficial to them.
My love of reading started when i was young, and it gives me immense pleasure to provide books to Spread the Word Nevada, an organization that passes them on to children in the community.
And if not, you can always help start on.
Sometimes I'll find a book I remember reading when I was young and will read it again before passing it on.I don't rate these books using my normal scale, instead I give most of them three stars.
This isn't a Criticism of the book, simply my way of rating them as good for children.
We're spending a few weeks exploring themes found in Pinocchio in our pre-school library story times.
This book is too small and wordy to read through with the children but it can be held up and paged through as the performer reviews the story, stopping at the theme-of-the-day.
This week we were having a WHALE of a time.Lead the children in this action verse: ONCE I CAUGHT A FISH ALIVE (hear the words and tune and see the actions here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f0I-9...
.After singing it through once we changed the words a little...1,2,3,4,5 Once GEPPETO was caught alive!
Pinocchio!
Pinocchio!
I love this story, I read in primary school and shows us that love is powerful and never lie to anyone lol
Desta Antologia da Disney, a história que se destaca deste livro é a do Pinóquio. O menino que aprendeu que mentir era feio e desonesto.Numa época em que vivemos envolvidos de corrupção, em que os GRANDES que roubam milhões continuam mentindo dizendo que não roubaram. Continuando sem conseguir provar a sua inocência e de onde provieram tantos milhões.Sugiro, a esses GRANDES SENHORES que na sua maioria o que fizeram, foi somente roubar o Zé Povinho, que se espelhem na história do Pinóquio e na sua moral.Talvez haja ESPERANÇA e CONSCIÊNCIA para repor aquilo que retiraram do povo.
This version of this classic is one of the 'original' I remember this story (the wording) and the illustrations from when I was a small child. Now I'm sharing the same version with my granddaughter. What a job it is to find the classics like I enjoyed as a child. This version doesn't have as much 'scary' things that the movie has for the smaller kids, so they can still enjoy the story.
