https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/762159.On_Certainty
Some interesting things that people are certain about:Religion You have an invisible friend who is the most important being in the world and responsible for everything that happens.Science The great strength of science is that all its findings are provisional and subject to revision at any moment if new evidence comes in.
This is why you should trust it.Economics Even 0.1% growth over a few tens of millenia would result in an economy bigger than the known universe.
But, although it is impossible in the long term, the critical thing is that the economy should grow, otherwise catastrophe will ensue.Love Exercise left to the reader.
World-views are based on language and language games (meaning the “rules” we create for language, in order to understand each other.) All the things that we consider to be “certain” or sure (i.e. True), are actually premises for our language games.
In other words, you can point to every fact we are so sure of, “The world is spherical,” or “This is my hand,” and they always end up pointing back to what are assumptions of the language game.
No certainty.Some writers claim that LW actually debunks skepticism because he claims skepticism’s questions (such as “Is this all a dream?”) don’t fit into the language game of a given world view so they are not coherent questions.
I will not be able to use "I know" in my vocabulary without first questioning my statement's certainty a hundred times.
Would I be certain of my knowledge then?
Wittgenstein, in this book, uses short philosophical and linguistic reflections on "knowing" as a response to G.
He asks you to emphasize on "I believe" than "I know" whenever you "don't know", because when you think you "believe", and say that you "know", you actually are saying that you "believe" because you really, in actuality, "don't know", as there is no way of actually "knowing" certain things.
If it does, Wittgenstein won't disappoint you.
Even mathematics Wittgenstein holds to be a kind of language game-asserting the certainty of its conclusions by insisting on the validity of its own rules.
How can the rules not be doubted if doubt can change the rules?) Wittgenstein distinguishes between “knowledge”, that to which one must subscribe if one is to continue to believe anything, i.e to continue to play the language game, and “certainty” a term that he thinks, if we were to live completely honestly, we would abolish.
For Wittgenstein, it is the rules of the particular language game that a person is taught to play that determine how a person thinks and acts.
Τί θα μπορούσα να πω, να συνάγω από μία επί τροχάδην ανάγνωσή του μικρού αυτού βιβλίου, σε δύο μόνο ημέρες; Μάλιστα, δεν είναι ο τύπος έργων που κανονικά θα με εντυπωσίαζαν.
Πρώτον, πάντα αντιπαθούσα τις φιλοσοφικές πραγματείες που χρησιμοποιούν πεζά παραδείγματα από την καθημερινή ζωή ή τη φύση για να φωτίσουν τα νοήματα, και αυτό το έργο ανήκει σε αυτήν την αγλλοσαξωνική, και όχι μόνο, παράδοση.
Δεύτερον, επιφανειακά δεν κάνει καμία αναφορά στην παρελθούσα φιλοσοφική σκέψη, ο φιλόσοφος σκέφτεται μόνος του, μοιάζει να γράφει για να απαντήσει σε ερωτήματα που γεννήθηκαν από την κουβέντα με φίλους του.
Επίσης, στην πραγματικότητα το έργο είναι άκρως αινιγματικό, παρότι φαίνεται να στοχάζεται την καθημερινή εμπειρία του μέσου Ευρωπαίου.
Strange, wonderful little book. It has its dull moments, but there are moments of blazing light.How certain am I, that I have never been to Jupiter? "It is as certain as any grounds I could give for it."
devi crederci Wittci sarà una storia d'amore in un mondo miglioreci sarà un azzurro più intenso in un cielo più immensoci sarà la tua ombra al mio fianco vestita di bianco... http://youtu.be/ctvldN26Rfs(certezze...)
The only thing Wittgenstein is certain of is that there's something fishy about philosopher G.E. Moore's assertions "I know that that's a tree" or "I know that here is a hand" or "I know that I have never been far above the earth's surface." Wittgenstein is terribly perturbed by these statements but doesn't know quite why.
It has something to do with the fact that the only people who ever make such statements are philosophers; the rest of us "know" such things by simply behaving as if they were true.
Wittgenstein always fascinates me. He is not easy to read unless you are willing to go into his terrain of mind. He has a different mind from most of us, above, on a meta level of what we call "things in life". This book questions all the things we take for granted in order to live, to the extreme extent of almost being silly. After the questioning, there is not much left to maintain the human life. I wonder how many people can overcome that void.
I love Wittgenstein for, if nothing else, his pithy writing style. I also find him helpful for thinking through my research data in terms of the relationship between certainty, uncertainty, and the production of knowledge. Worth it, even if you haven't read Philosophical Investigations.
Reading Ludwig Wittgenstein is a series of moments when one thinks of language and what it truly means.
For inspiration and getting my brain exercised in a natural manner, unlike reading the tweets of a specific idiot in a building in Washington DC, is my spring water that is Wittgenstein.
"On Certainty" is later Wittgenstein, and the title is actually an exact and accurate description of the book.
Me 'being' there, or thinking I was there, is an actual thought in my head as I did know I was truly at the Fisher Building, reading Wittgenstein's "On Certainty."
E. Moore was justified in holding up his hand and saying, "I know that here is my hand." the second half is quite creepy to read, as he was dying of cancer while writing it.
the dates are on the entries, with the final page written two days before he died.
it often seems so to me450 - a doubt that doubted everything would not be a doubt616 - would it be unthinkable that i should stay in the saddle however much the facts bucked?although this is much shorter than Philosophical Investigations, you should probably read PI first, since this was written afterwards and refers to PI occasionally.
First thing Wittgenstein does to you, from the outset, is tear apart your cozy little way of thinking, and 'knowing'.
I'll never 'know' anything the way I've known before, or at least I'll think a second more before I say I'm certain of something.
But you forgive him for it starts as a response to a paper by Moore and now since you're used to his language and style (well as used as you possibly could be), you begin to really enjoy what he's trying to say.
Wittgenstein's main works are, of course, the Tractatus and Philosophical Investigations, but some consider On Certainty to be his third major work.
Unfortunately, On Certainty was not formally organized by Wittgenstein.
It is more or less a collection of notes, which represent Wittgensteinian thought post-PI.Some readers take Wittgenstein's stance in these notes to be sceptical.
If anything, Wittgenstein is starkly anti-sceptical (particularly enlightening is his discussion on 'hinge propositions').
I found Meredith Williams' exegesis to be particularly insightful in understanding Wittgenstein.Either way, for those of you stuck in Cartesian (Humean) sceptisim, Wittgenstein is definitely worth the effort you put in.

I read Tractatus Logico Philosophicus and On Certainty one after another and I must say that On Certainty is much more enjoyable to read than TLP.
At least if you do not have any previous knowledge about philosophy.
I was happy to notice that this book was not so hard to read and gave the reader opportunity to form own opinions.
At one point I even noticed that there was a flaw in Wittgenstein's thinking.
If you do not have any or very limited previous knowledge about philosophy and wish to read Wittgenstein I'd recommend that you start from this one rather than TLP.
I know I liked On Certainty, but that would be playing the language game properly, and not making a statement of fact, of this I can be certain but not know, of which I can be wrong but still believe...This book sometimes feel like its a head on collision between philosophy and the everyday. What we can say and its implications within varied contexts, contexts that can never be nailed down. It's almost like what it would be like if an AI computer had a mental breakdown. Good stuff.
At times tough, at times perplexing, at times dull. Its about language, not epistemology but kind of vague epistemic conjecture in undertones. Looks like a soliloquy but a wonderful little masterpiece.
It has been extremely revealing to alternate W with the writings of hundreds of other philosophers and evolutionary psychologists (as I regard all psychologists and in fact all behavioral scientists, cognitive linguists and others).He can be regarded as the pioneer of evolutionary cognitive linguistics—the Top Down analysis of the mind and its evolution via the careful analysis of examples of language use in context to expose the many varieties of language games and the relationships between the primary games of the true-only axiomatic fast thinking of perception and memory and reflexive emotions and acts, and the later evolved dispositional abilities of believing, knowing, thinking etc.
Il bambino sa usare una parola ancora prima di essere cosciente del significato preciso di quella parola e di che cosa significhi "sapere qualcosa".
Sapere qualcosa significa che su quella cosa si è certi.
Tuttavia, posso continuare a esserne sicuro: se non c'è nessun dato che mi indica che io sia stato ingannato o come dimostri il contrario, è inutile dubitare di ogni cosa che so.
W. afferma che impariamo le cose tramite le loro applicazioni e non tramite le regole grammaticali, anzi: quest'ultime sono il frutto del tentativo di riconoscere una regola in mezzo a qualcosa di regolare, che però non è necessariamente certo e sicuro.
One is that there is a web or system of beliefs, values, truths (or what we take to be truths at any given time/age) that makes communication possible at all, and by extension, believing, thinking, acting, and even doubting too.
I'm not sure if he made up his mind about this, but he claims that at the bottom of this system is action, or beliefs as shown by actions: "Giving grounds, however, justifying the evidence, comes to an end;—but the end is not certain propositions' striking us immediately as true, i.e. it is not a kind of seeing on our part; it is our acting, which lies at the bottom of the language game"(204).
Unas notas interesantísimas. Saber, creencia, duda... Toda una disertación sobre el qué podemos conocer y de qué podemos dudar, solo que no desde la típica perspectiva gnoseológica típica de la modernidad, sino más bien desde un análisis lingüístico. Todo un juego, todo un descubrimiento.
That all judgments of "truth" ultimately rely on some faithful assumption is an important insight.
And yet, I'd much rather read about the domain-specificity of skepticism and heuristics à la Nassim Taleb than proceed further down Wittgenstein's rabbit hole of stifling hypotheticals.
Ayn Rand's criticism of the philosophy of language as sterile and ultimately impotent has some truth to it:(http://aynrandlexicon.com/lexicon/lin...).
Somewhat thought-provoking, but not really my cup of tea."I believe it might interest a philosopher, one who can think himself, to read my notes.
In Wittgenstein's case, judging from his notes during his final days, he was open to questioning even the most obvious and trivial facts.
The text was written mostly, but not exclusively in German.
The final entry, two days before his death, references the dream time of the other side.
While the text is repetitive and rambling, the subject raised is extremely provocative.
Wittgenstein's ability to call into question fact and belief remains relevant in matters of ethics and epistemology.
The editors could have done away with some of the repetition and digressions with little loss to the meaning of the text.
ويتگنشتاين را در قم خواندم. يعني در تمام مدتي كه از ظلمت شب (با اتوبوس) به سمت طلعت سحر در تحرك بودم.در قم بيشتر در باب يقين ويتگنشتاين غور كردم. ويتگنشتاين آن چيزي نبود كه تصور ميكردم. بعدها سه كتاب از او را خواندم. در باب يقين او حاصل دو سه سال آخر عمر اوست كه بعدها عليالظاهر جمع و نشر شده.دو وجهه متفاوت از او برداشت كردم. يك. ويتگنشتاين در خدمت تجدددو. ويتگنشتاين در خيانت به تجدد. دوستانم معتقد به گزينهي دوم هستند. اما من ويتگنشتاين را ادامه مدرنيته و در خدمت جهان متجدد فهميدهام. البته فعلاً.
ويتگنشتاين را در قم خواندم.
يعني در تمام مدتي كه از ظلمت شب (با اتوبوس) به سمت طلعت سحر در تحرك بودم.در قم بيشتر در باب يقين ويتگنشتاين غور كردم.
ويتگنشتاين آن چيزي نبود كه تصور مي‌كردم.
بعدها سه كتاب از او را خواندم.
در باب يقين او حاصل دو سه سال آخر عمر اوست كه بعدها علي‌الظاهر جمع و نشر شده.دو وجهه متفاوت از او برداشت كردم.
ويتگنشتاين در خدمت تجدددو.
ويتگنشتاين در خيانت به تجدد.
دوستانم معتقد به گزينه‌ي دوم هستند.
اما من ويتگنشتاين را ادامه مدرنيته و در خدمت جهان متجدد فهميده‌ام.
البته فعلاً.
باشد كه چنين نباشد.
Wittgensteinas - tai lyg švitrinis popierius racionalumo skalpeliui šveisti.
Amazing. Wittgenstein goes in circles a bit trying to get across his point (then again, these are his notes/journal), but this ranks among my favorite books of all time.
More Wittgenstein!
This is the first full book of Wittgenstein’s I have read - being for a long time put off by the mystique of impenetrability.
I don’t claim to have understood all the subtleties, but what I read seemed clear - certainly clearer than many other philosophy books discussing topics like language, logic and knowledge.
(To be honest, this was definitely helped by reading an analysis of the book in advance).I like the process of seeing Wittgenstein’s thinking evolve - the book seems as much about himself clarifying his own thoughts.
At times it is tentative, in others definite.
