https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/325414.Doctor_Dolittle_s_Garden
Fascinated, the doctor plans a voyage to find them — but before he does so, one arrives in his garden.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دهم ماه دسامبر سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: داستانهای دکتر دولیتل - باغ - جلد 9 از 12؛ شماره گذاری کتاب در گودریدز 7 است؛ نویسنده: هیو لافتینگ؛ مترجم: محمد قصاع؛ تهران، محراب قلم، 1385؛ در 328 ص، مصور؛ شابک: 9789643238193؛ موضوع: داستانهای مصور کودکان از نویسندگان انگلیس - سده 20 مداستان دکتر دولیتل، در هنگامه ی جنگ جهانگیر نخست و در سنگر نوشته شد.
داستان دکتر دولیتل پس از جنگ، به صورت کتاب منتشر شد.
This is a slightly strange Dr. Doolittle book, a bit disjointed and a non-ending, but containing lots of entertainingly told stories within.
The first part of the book tells about a club for crossbred dogs and has several of them telling stories after dinner about their lives.
Somewhere in the story telling, Dr. Doolittle hears rumors of giant moths, so quizzes his animal and insect friends for more information about them.
I've always thought the primary fun in the Dr. Doolittle books were the little stories that the animals tell each other within the confines of the major plot themes.
I love these delightful books! This one leaves you with a bit of a cliffhanger, and I can't wait to get my hands on the next one so I can find out what happens! Dolittle really is an extraordinary character.
But it's quite an abrupt change, so much so that in many ways it's really almost two different books rather than one.I've been reading the entire Dolittle series to my son.
My son started getting a little bored towards the end of the first quarter of the book; roughly half-way through the "garden" portion, which could be considered the end of the entertainment story arc.
Not that Matthew is bad, of course...he just has difficulty restraining his criminal tendencies (one of my son's favorite Dolittle memories is of the time that the Doctor goes to jail and finds Matthew's initials on his cell wall).Bumpo does have a tendency to violence towards intruding outsiders, and in previous books there were some humorous references to cannibalism which were doubtless deleted from modern editions.
Longtime favorite I first read a Doctor Doolittle book when I was in elementary school. I still reread them periodically. Hugh Lofting’s characters are timeless.
Delightful! Bought this secondhand and it brought back memories of reading Hugh Lofting’s stories in Puffin in the 60’s . I still have my copies from then but not this one which reading in my 60th year still gave as much pleasure as the others did in my childhood.
I've always loved Doctor Dolittle's stories. This book is great but unfortunately it lost me after finishing 2/3 part. The moon journey plot is not very appealing and distracts from the main title.
