https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41865.Twilight
That's what makes me wonder why so many fans find Edward so "hot", I never got a clear picture of him in my head to even begin to form an opinion about whether he was "hot" or not.Seriously, Meyer completely abused the dictionary and the thesaurus while writing this book (so much so that I think she should never be allowed to look at either one ever again)...
Especially since they all have several college degrees (which leads me to wonder why, since they are so "human loving" they can't do something useful with their education like Carlisle, instead of sitting on their butts all day and just being useless) I know they need to "fit in", but seriously..
Then, my husband goes, "So you finally finished, huh?" "Yes. I can't believe I used to like this book," I said.
Fuck my life." And what's one of the first things Bella does when she arrives in Forks?
Some random shit happens causing Edward to swoop in and save danger prone Bella.
The worst thing about Twilight is how incredibly dependent Bella is on Edward.
But first, Carlisle has a little conversation about Bella's mom and she somehow finds the will to mention to Alice what she knows about James.
Either Meyer's husband is the single-most communicative male on the planet and she doesn't realize how unusual he is, or she, like most of her female readers, is using her fiction to imagine a world where men not only have deep emotions but want to admit to having them and talk about them over and over, articulating even the most subtle of their internal dramas.
To see just what an indulgent fantasy this book is, just imagine the male-centric version of Twilight, in which a troubled teen boy moves to a small town to find the hottest girl in town is a vampiress.
There's nothing better than knowing an author has really thought about her characters and situations, and come up with some surprising and delightful detail that makes the whole reading experience fuller.
I don't need to know that Bella ate a granola bar for breakfast.
Twilight reads like...
Bella has all the emotional maturity of a 32-year-old and that's just not remotely believable.
Twilight reads like Meyer has read a lot of mediocre novels and regurgitated the same kind of language onto the page.
(Did I say Bella has the emotional maturity of a 32-year-old?
The main characters themselves are not compelling: selfish, shallow, lacking the deep thought that comes with true passion and love and instead leaping recklessly into stupid and deadly situations when anyone with a brain could see sixty other possibilities that should have been tried first.I can't express my disgust for the relationship between Edward and Bella.
She has no goals, passions, ambitions, or dreams besides wanting to be with Edward, who could kill her.Edward's element of danger is occasionally compelling, but it's totally overshadowed by the fact that Bella is completely oblivious to it.
i chuckled to myself, darn school moving people!after i drove around for a few hours looking for where they put the building, edward cullen pulled up alongside me in his shiny, silver volvo, which was silver and a saab, i think.
his well-muscled chest was riding shotgun, wearing a blue-gray waffle knit long-sleeved t-shirt, relaxed fit jeans with contrast stitching in a lightly distressed wash, and an ivory-colored jacket made from the dyed skins of clubbed baby seals.
when we got to school, edward's well-muscled chest walked me to english class.
Meyers can make your heart speed up with some of the tense, tortured "we must be together/no, what if i hurt you" pg-13 erotica.Review 2, by My Fan of YA Lit (3 Stars):Meyers can tell a pretty good story, when she lets herself actually tell it -- the book starts out well, and would have been a bit more interesting if I hadn't known he was a vampire all along.
Then it slows down during the long "getting to know you" dialogue exchanges between Edward and Bella -- there's no plot, just back-story and exposition disguised as conversations, and far too many "I can't be with you, I don't want to hurt you!" "But I love you, I don't care about danger!" back-and-forths.
Words need not be said.© Anything Comic
Save your time: here's the entirety of Twilight in 20 dialogue snippets & a wiggedy-wack intermission.First 200 pages:"I like you, Edward!""You shouldn't!
I'm dangerous!""I like you, Edward!""But I'm dangerous!"Next 50 pages:"I'm a vampire!""I like you, Edward!""But I'm a vampire!
I'm dangerous!""I like you, Edward!"Next 100 pages:"I like you, Edward!""You smell good, Bella.
I'm dangerous!""I like you, Edward!""Damn, you smell good.""I like you, Edward!""Also, I glow in sunlight."Next 50 pages:A.
GAME.(I wish I was kidding)Last 100 pages:"Help me, Edward!
I'm being chased!""I'll save you!""Help me, Edward!
I'm scared!""I'll save you!""Oh, Edward!""You smell good."(One half star for lack of quality, and one half star for being unintentionally hilarious...
I don't read romance novels*, though, because to me they are lacklustre - Meyer's book has the extra edge I need, though, a great way of keeping doom hanging over the main characters' heads: she's human, he's a vampire.Sound corny?
I don't know if that makes this a girly kind of book - these days those boundaries don't seem to matter so much, and the vampire family is pretty darn cool, what with Edward's extra ability to read minds, Alice's premonitions, Jasper's ability to affect people's emotions, their speed, their invincibility...
Edward reacts weirdly to Bella because she 1) smells unusually good, and 2) is the only person he's ever met whose mind he cannot read.
But, you know, the actual mysterious stuff is apparently not important—instead it's more important that we realize that the Cullens are good vampires, who only eat animals, and who do nice, all-American things like play baseball in the woods.
THE BOOK ENDS WITH EDWARD TAKING BELLA TO THE PROM.
The. Fuck.And still, none of this answers my number one question: if you were a century-old vampire, why the HELL would you spend your time going to high school in Washington State?
... That is all.
Welcome to Part II of the Vampire Compatibility Test (VCT). Before we continue, let's briefly racap Part I of the VCT. Your score in Part I should have given you a good idea of how critically you judge vampire fiction, placing you in either "Group A" or "Group B" based on overall points scored. Group A: A fairly harsh to extremely harsh critic that requires in a vampire story that it be: (a) well written or at least highly engaging prose; (b) tightly plotted with a well defined backstory that i
In this section, we will take a look at the most popular vampire series in publishing history (i.e., the Twilight series) and help you determine whether it is a good choice for your next reading selection**.
For each of the 4 questions below, select the answer that best describes your personal taste when it comes to vampire fiction.
QUESTION 1: Which of the following best describes your favorite kind of vampire?
20 points   QUESTION 2: Which of the following best describes your desire to become a vampire like those in your favorite stories?
i have friends who have never read this book, but still openly mock its fans and say things like "oh edward, you sparkle so gooood" - oh wait - no, that was me.
but what if both parties are acting against nature/their inclinations?he is repressing his desire to drink her bloodshe is repressing her desire to touch himboth feel the strain of resistance and every time they are close - there is amazing heightened tension.and it is - it is pretty damn hot.hoofa.so, yeah, like cottage cheese, i have come around in my thinking about this book.
Call me crazy, but Twilight wasn't that bad.
The sequels were atrocious, sure, but the first book wasn't the worst crap I've ever read.
What I suspect most of us hate about Twilight isn't the book itself, but the legion of rabid, terrifying fangirls.
The ones who will argue that Twilight is the best book ever written.
I've read far worse before.
I've read books where the main character is so fucking dumb it makes my teeth hurts.
You may hate Twilight with my blessing, but please don't believe it's the worst example of YA literature out there.
Reread in 2015!I forgot how much I loved this book. No, it's not the best written book, but it is incredibly entertaining to read and it has so many wonderful memories attached to it. I probably won't reread the rest of the series anytime in the immediate future, but I hope to some day!
So, my review might be a bit biased...This was my first (and only major) episode of fangirling. I owned a tshirt ("vegetarian vampire"  - so edgy). I saw the first movie an embarrassingly high number of times in theater. I judged people based off of Team Edward or Team Jacob (for the record: Edward in the books, Jacob in the movies).Even now, more than 10 years later, I still absolutely adore this first book - there's too many good feelings. I tried so, so hard to look at this book with my sop
I judged people based off of Team Edward or Team Jacob (for the record: Edward in the books, Jacob in the movies).Even now, more than 10 years later, I still absolutely adore this first book - there's too many good feelings.
There is no physically relevant way a seventeen year old could be that 
I was unconditionally and irrevocably in love with him.Me, falling in love with this book all over again.
p.s. Still got that 10 yr old vegetarian vampire shirt in the back of my closet.Audiobook CommentsWell-read by Ilyana Kadushin, though I wish the guy voices were a bit more distinct when the girl-reader said them.
And if she’s not obsessing over Edward, she does, well, nothing but whines, or tells him and his family that she doesn’t want to be rescued.I would have liked it if Meyer had given her a little backbone and some brain cells, so she can get out of the stupid situations she puts her stupid self in.
Stakes, garlic, sleeping in coffin (although the idea of not sleeping ever was okay) – even sunlight!But you know, age and race don’t matter in this book, because Edward and Bella actually fall in love!
I don't know if it's because of the story or what, but this whole series will forever have a place in my heart, it's just one of those series you have to read.I could watch the films over and over again, even in the same day.A gripping story line with a love triangle between two completely different beings.Some days I wish I was Bella, because then I'd change who she bloody chooses!Jacob, Jacob, Jacob, oh how I adore you...Bella can keep Edward for all I care, I want the wolf.
In real life that's creepy.BELLA COULD HAVE GOTTEN HERSELF KILLED MULTIPLES TIMES IF IT HADN'T BEEN FOR EDWARD's STALKER tendencies.
In a fictional realm some things are necessary to keep the woman a vampire loves alive and the readers turning the pages.AND IF STEPHANIE MEYER IS SUCH A BAD WRITER BY ALL MEANS GO AND WRITE A BETTER BOOK.
You just don't read the book.I find the people who says I'm stupid because I ADORE TWILIGHT to be snobbish, arrogant and insufferable.
Plenty of people wouldn't read or write if it hadn't been for twilight.
The publishing industry would have lost money if girls like me hadn't started reading book like twilight.
I think that young people have enough trouble knowing the difference between love and lust and this book does not help.4) Too much emphasis on appearances - It's like Edward's good looks are all that matters, personality is not important.
There are thousands of young girls all over the nation who are swooning over Edward and wishing that they could be "just like Bella" - gag!
There's a lot more I could say, but I think that I've offended enough people for now.
but i will say this, 'twilight' is probably one of the worst, if not THE worst, books i've ever read.
the writing is amateurish at best [cliches, stereotypes, purple prose--how anyone can applaud meyer's prose is puzzling]; the editing--or lack thereof--is appalling [this is a 200 page novel, no more and probably less]; the grammar and syntax are unforgivably bad; the plot is onion-skin thin; and the characters are uniformly dull and uninspiring.
honestly, this is the kind of novel you'd expect see selling for $1.99 at the supermarket checkout, not winning all sorts of awards.
Since this book has already been reviewed from hell to high water, I thought that I could treat you all to what this whole book (and small part of New Moon, as well) was in a simple little gif nutshell. Enjoy, all: And that's pretty much it.
“I like the night.
Without the dark, we'd never see the stars.”I love Twilight.
I love the whole series.There is a reason this was so popular.
It's one of the big love stories of our time.
You may roll your eyes now but it's true.
It's so incredibly romantic.
The vampire thing is just another exciting addition - brutally beautiful, rich, talented and mysterious characters.
I keep rereading the books.
It's so easy to forget everything and just disappear into her world for a short time.
Preferably on a rainy day with a cup of hot chocolate.Find more of my books on Instagram
She never shrinks away from male attention, and while she does often acknowledge that Edward is aesthetically pleasing, her reaction to being seen with a "dazzling" and notorious man is a natural one: “Won’t people wonder why someone so special is out with someone so ordinary, like me?” This is not a new or particularly groundbreaking question to ask oneself, especially in young and emotionally charged relationships, and especially with someone like Bella, who is defined by her low-key and utilitarian outlook, and her discomfort with an excess of attention in social circles.
I got so tired of receiving Twilight questions on the Never-Ending Quiz that I went out and bought a copy.
I had the following conversation with Cate:"So I suppose you read the Twilight books?""No, what are they?""You know, those vampire books.
It's only a sample of two, and I would love more data, but so far I am not convinced that all young womanhood in the Western world is infected with the deadly Meyer mind-virus.As I said, I lent the book to Cate-across-the-road (just turned 18, cute, party animal).
When I dropped by for our usual Sunday morning chess session, I asked her if she had read Twilight.
Also, I think I may have borrowed this comparison from the one and only Cleolinda Jones.Once upon a time, 5-6 years ago, I was sick with the nastiest flu and therefore was lying in bed browsing the Interwebs in the state of cough-syrup-induced befuzzlement, when somehow, via a combination of inexplicable links I came across the site that popped my Twilight cherry with the best parodies that I have yet come across:Enter 
Twilight is probably the biggest love/hate relationship of my life and at this point I am completely fine with saying I will never come to a solid, conclusive rating.
- how much this series did for YAStuff I did NOT love- Edward's creepy possessive behavior & self-loathing issues- how the author rewrote the history of an actual real Native American tribe- yeah, the writing isn't the strongest...- Bella's entire existence revolves around her bf aaaand they're a wee bit intenseSo I TOTALLY get why people hate this series...
Either way, I had fun with it when it first came out and think it's wonderful how many people became readers because of Twilight!
Beware of spoilers!This review is more like a review of all the books.
You know, this is one book that I was aching to write a review on.
I needed the safe sanity of his homemade garage and his warm hand around my cold fingers."Meyer also believes that using long, seemingly complicated words in her sentences makes her writing more "sophisticated." She doesn't even use them in the right context!
Watching a girl sleep at night is the most interesting thing he's ever done in his life?
He could be doing so many things with his long vampire life.
#1 Twilight ★★★☆☆#2 New Moon - pending reread#3 Eclipse - pending reread#4 Breaking Dawn - pending reread Oh, boy. I know this is probably not a review that most of you expected to see pop up on my blog, and honestly, I almost didn’t even review this, because there are a million and one reviews in the world for each book in this series, and this was at least my eighth or ninth time rereading this… however(!), it was my first time reading it in  ten years  and I had a lot of unexpected feelings a
I know this is probably not a review that most of you expected to see pop up on my blog, and honestly, I almost didn’t even review this, because there are a million and one reviews in the world for each book in this series, and this was at least my eighth or ninth time rereading this… however(!), it was my first time reading it in 
As an OG Twihard rereading these just for the fun of it, at a point in my life where I no longer let people give me hell for the things I like?
If it’s going to be your first time reading the series, eh, you could probably live without it.
