https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/303525.Gasoline_The_Vestal_Lady_on_Brattle
Corso has strong merits, but his work comes across as darker and more pessimistic than others, and does not speak to me in the way that Ferlinghetti does or (to a lesser extent) Ginsberg.
Much as "Howl" was in many ways Ginsberg's defining poem, "Bomb" (not contained in this collection) was that for Corso.
The other poems in this collection do not come close to that masterpiece, though they still have their relative strengths.
The only reason I'm not giving this 5 stars is that there was 1 or 2 poems in here that I thought were just okay and secondly because I haven't read Long Live Man yet which apparently features his best work including the poem 'Marriage' which is hilarious.Here we have a beat poet in his prime and someone who has carved out a singular and definitive 'signature sound' to his poetry.
Corso's impressive general knowledge comes from his time in prison where he read entire encyclopaedias!If you are a fan of the beats, definitely check this out!
It seems an almost well accepted fact that more than fifty years on from when it was first published in 1958, Gasoline (City Lights, 1958) by Beat poet Gregory Corso is a seminal book in the birth of that particular literary generation.
And actually, at the time of writing this, Corso’s selected poems Mindfield is criminally out of print.
Consequently, Corso’s poetry has still to receive its true recognition, which in part is due still to the ruling classes of Academia, and maybe even to a certain snobbishness over his sometimes wild and spontaneous antics.full review: http://paulstubbspoet.wordpress.com/2...
and my other favorite-Hello...It is disastrous to be a wounded deerI'm the most wounded, wolves stalk, and I have my failures, too.My flesh is caught on the Inevitable Hook!As a child I saw many things I did not want to be.Am I the person I did not want to be?That talks-to-himself person?That neighbors-make-fun-of person?Am I he who, on museum steps, sleeps on his side?Do I wear the cloth of a man who has failed?Am I the looney man?In the great serenade of things,am I the most cancelled passage?There you have it-a little taste of Gregory Nunzio Corso!
Corso is probably the least well-known of the Beat writers.
However, Corso, in many ways, is a more finessed and nuanced poet.
These are some of Corso's first-published poems, and in spots they can be a bit too abstruse.
However, Corso overcomes these flaws, and his vibrant and vital self comes through beautifully in the book.
Ginsberg, in his introduction, calls him "the greatest poet in America," with typical Ginsbergian effusiveness and ardor.
That's up to history to decide, but the poems here are vital, fiery, and alive, with a strongly individual voice that bears listening to.
I'd only read a couple of Corso's poems before this book, and I expected to like it much better than I did.
The minuses: a lack of focus overall, a consistent tone of self-importance that intruded on a lot of the better poetry, what felt like sloppy, unedited pieces in some places, and a feeling of "whatever, this is jazz so I can be obscure".
I especially liked "Puma in Chapultepec Zoo", "For Miles", "The Horse Was Milked", and "Man Seated Outside My Window".

I personally am not a fan of poetry, but I have had some success in the past with some poets.
Actually Beat Poetry or even just the Literature can be a bit of a hit or a miss with me.
More often it's a miss, but it's good to try something different.
Most poets have at least a couple of poems that I liked, but not so here.
Not only did I not like them, I never really understood what the hell he was talking about.
It just seemed like an endless rambling of weird combinations of words with no reason behind them.
Corso is the Ringo of the Beats, if Ringo had the songwriting chops of George Harrison. His poems are odd and frequently disarming in their charming openness - I really enjoyed reading this slim volume.
Read one these poems to a speech class at UW, my first attempt at college education. Other students and professor hadn't ever heard anything like this. I was on a permanent real and contact high for these years/
Excellent early beat and city lights poetry from a formative poet in the genre who is often criminally neglected when the beats are discussed.
These two early Corso books are quite lively.
All in all this was better than the Kerouac book of poems I read recently. I love Kerouac but I think I prefer this Corso’s collection of poems over that one (Scattered Poems). I can see myself rereading this at some point.
I’ve never read any beat poetry that I can say was any good. This one falls into that category. Total fucking trash. Another book on the heaping pile of the pretentious, that I’d love nothing more than to set aflame to.
gasoline was great; the vestal lady on brattle was meh
Corso excellence
Gregory Corso, also known as the only Beatnik who was even a little bit valid.
An interesting collection of poems that didn't really resonate with me. Some intriguing imagery and ideas, but overall I couldn't get deeply engaged with the two collections contained in this volume.
Gasoline and the following collection grouped with it, The Vestal Lady On Brattle, show Corso growing as a poet.
Gasoline being the later collection, and therefore contains the stronger works.
Overall though the poems for me were a hit and miss, i always found them clever and intriguing but I feel like a lot of them don't represent Corso at his best, but rather hints of what he was to become later, with more notable poems such as "Bomb" and "Marriage".
I recommend Gasoline to anyone who loves poetry, the Beats, or likes art that is influence by the Italians and bee-bop Jazz.
The back cover features praise from Ginsberg, Burroughs, and Kerouac.
Ginsberg wrote the Introduction, which concludes thusly: "He's probably the greatest poet in America, and he's starving in Europe." "D.
Scarlatti" and "Birthplace Revisited" stand out from the first section (Gasoline).
In the Mexican zoo / they have ordinary / American cows.
- "Mexican Impressions"The Introduction to the second section, The Vestal Lady On Brattle, was written by P.L.B. I have no idea who this person was.
An internet search was fruitless."Greenwich Village Suicide" and "The Horse Was Milked" stand out from this section.
Even if I read it with a dictionary and encyclopedia in hand, I always feel that Corso is speaking on a level much too deep for me to completely understand.
If Ferlinghetti is the wordsmith, and Ginsberg is the madman, Corso is the artist.There are poems within this book which I read in high school and struggled to understand.
I am slightly better at divining their meaning now, but their depth and breadth open them up to a multiplicity of interpretations.
I have been staring at "Birthplace Revisited" off and on for more than two decades, and although I have a few favorite interpretations, I am happy to leave it an open question.
Here is a poem I really enjoyed from this collection, called "Hello..".It is disastrous to be a wounded deer.I'm the most wounded, wolves stalk,and I have my failures, too.My flesh is caught on the Inevitable Hook!As a child I saw many things I did not want to be.Am I the person I did not want to be?That talks-to-himself person?That neighbors-make-fun-of person?Am I he who, on museum steps, sleeps on his side?Do I wear the cloth of a man who has failed?Am I the looney man?In the great serenade of things,am I the most cancelled passage?
Beatnik fans will dig. Two separate collections "Gasoline" was a little more to my liking. The second part "The Vestal Lady" has more of the WTF did I just read moments? Gasoline-Amnesia in Memphis-Mexican Impression-I Miss My Dear Cats-To a Downfallen Rose-This Was My MealThe Vestal Lady On Brattle-Dementia in an African Apartment House-The Shakedown-The Crime
When I was young a lot of people gave me really shitty reading suggestions.I really thought literature was the most obnoxious bullshit when I was sixteen.Eventually, I guess my mind changed.Somewhere early in that process I was kind of forced to take a copy of Gasoline. Corso is a great poet to read when you are really sick of reading poetry.
Corso is a wizard of language. He has a way of blurring his objects and intentions in ways that stir questions without provoking confusion. He is one of the shining stars of the Beats but has gotten hardly any of the spotlight he deserves. this little book is a great read and i agree with GInsberg who said you should open it "like a box of crazy toys."
playful and brashly erudite and revealing a great need for appreciation, this poet.the poem 'Marriage' remains one of my favorites oh, it's gotta be ten years since I first starting waiting for my "egyptian lover"
I'm not going to wax poetic about this book, but I enjoyed it. It had a bizarro aspect to it that I enjoyed. Mexicans sure were mentioned a lot. I guess Corso likes Mexicans....Wait, I think Corso is a Hispanic name. That might explain it.
Corso has a rambling style that is great when it's short, but I think gets a little long winded when his poems go beyond the one page mark or so. Here, they rarely do, and there are some stand out poems in the book, but as a whole, I don't find it cohesive enough to warrent a much higher rating.
Very underrated poet, in his prime. (Added years later)But his prime was pretty short.
There are a few really good / really funny poems in here, but there's also a lot of sub-par stuff, too.
