https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2398014.One_Pair_of_Feet
A wonderfully warm and witty memoir of what it was like to nurse in the 1940s. Dickens has such a delightful way of colouring her characters, she breathes such life into them you find yourself really there, watching her work. Numerous times I found myself laughing out loud at this account, I immediately rushed to the library and got out her earlier 'One Pair of Hands' - I so looking forward to reading more of her work.
This is not presented as a work of fiction, it is presented as a first person narration of the author's time working as a trainee nurse during World War 2.
That was the one thing that emerged clearly.' (pp.24-26) Her enthusiasm is infectious, and the entire book was an absolute joy to read.
Although Dickens said her books were meant 'to entertain, not to instruct', I found the honest account of people and life during wartime to be fascinating.
I can't wait to get my hands on her other autobiographical books (One Pair Of Hands and My Turn To Make The Tea), and to read some of her novels that I already have.
The introduction to Virago’s reprint of Monica Dickens’ spirited One Pair of Feet has been written by acclaimed author Monica Lewycka, who states that the book ‘is a fascinating glimpse into a time and a culture so recent and yet so utterly changed’.
Her wartime memoirs echo this sentiment rather wonderfully.Lewycka describes Dickens’ tone marvellously when she says that she speaks as ‘a confiding and funny older sister letting us into her secrets; the scenes of ward life, gruesome medical procedures, snatched cigarettes… and ghastly food are horribly evocative’.
In this way, her memoirs are very of their time, but to echo Lewycka’s sentiments in the introduction, it is this very detail which fills Dickens’ writing with such charm and warmth.
Monica Dickens ha il dono dell'ironia, ereditato dal prozio Charles. È buffa quando racconta le sue disavventure lavorative. E come in "Su e giù per le scale", anche in "Su e giù per le corsie" non nasconde il suo esser goffa, pur mettendocela tutta. Narra le sue disavventure, ma anche le sue prodezze e alla fine mostra che la sua strada non è né in cucina né in corsia ma con una penna a scrivere.
One Pair of Feet inizia quando Monica decide di diventare infermiera all'inizio della seconda guerra mondiale, spinta dai costanti inviti governativi ad aiutare lo sforzo bellico inglese in ogni modo. Nonostante affermi di amare molto il lavoro e di trovarlo molto gratificante, in realtà l'autrice smonta l'immagine romantica dell'infermiera e svela un mondo fatto di duro e incessante lavoro e irritante struttura gerarchica. Glissando sui momenti dolorosi ed eroici, affronta le avventure di una novella infermiera e le storie delle infermiere, dei medici e dei pazienti con inesauribile brio ed ironia.http://robertabookshelf.blogspot.it/2...In realtà ho letto questa edizione:http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16...

Loved reading this book, I wanted to keep reading and would get annoyed at interruptions such as work or meals!
I am interested in the British nursing system from the 20s-80s and WWII in general so this was a perfect fit.
At first some of her descriptions of other people seemed mean or selfish, but then I realized she is as hard on herself most times as she is on others - freely confessing her mistakes and nursing sins and her personal habits that annoy others.
I came across this book accidently and now can't wait to read all her other works.
An interesting period piece. Privileged girl trains as a nurse in wartime England and lives to tell the tale. Class and racial bias abounds, but the writer of this memoir is so human and so generally decent and likeable, it is almost forgivable. In the end, the writer moves on and the reader is left believing she will continue to make her contributions to the war and to the lives of those she encounters along the way.
This is such a wonderful book -- touching and funny. I remember reading this while waiting for a bus and laughing to myself and some guy asked about the book. I wanted him to stop talking to me so I tried to keep quiet. I think he got the message because he said, "You might as well laugh out loud because you're shaking the bench." Great, great book.
This book is somewhat dated in style, but despite that, I could see many similarities between nurse training in the second world war, and my own nurse training in the 1980's.An interesting book, well worth reading.
Anyone who has ever aspired to the nursing profession, only to discover that you and the nursing profession would be better off if you chose something else, will appreciate this book. If you enjoy comedy, you will enjoy this book.
An interesting look at the life of nursing students in days gone by. You can tell that Monica Dickens inherited some of her illustrious ancestor's ability with putting things in an entertaining and humorous way!
I just finished One Pair of Feet by Monica Dickens. It's semi autobiographical of Ms. Dickens' time as a nurse in England during World War II. I loved this book and give it an A! I thought it was a little dated now, but still very good.
A very interesting and often funny book. The author, Charles Dickens great-granddaughter, tells of her experiences as a student nurse during WW2. It is amazing some of the things they had to do, cooking, cleaning etc. The discipline was horrendous. Decorum often came before common sense.
Wow - it is so nice to see the cover of a book - that you had in your hands, maybe 35 years ago. It gives you a kick. I read as a follow on from One Pair of Hands. This one not so funny as the first.
Nursing as it used to be, with senior nurses and matrons and wards and routines... but, as always with Monica Dickens' books, there's no sappy nostalgia here: she presents the life of a trainee nurse, as experienced from the inside, warts and all.
Read the whole thing between when the post came and dinner. Absolutely delightful, I would love to sit next to the author at a dinner party and hear all her gossip. My only complaint is that the book was rather short.
Ah great read- old fashioned but stands the test of time & much funnier than I remembered.
Some of the racial names she mentions are wildly inappropriate now, but once I got over the shock of the N word being dropped casually, I was okay. Just a product of her time.Otherwise, I loved it!
Great stories from the wonderful Monica Dickens. Very amusing and heart-warming. Although somewhat dated now, these are gentle and uplifting books.
One Pair of Feet: Monica Dickens
An interesting and somewhat humorous tale set in wartime England.
This book made me laugh until I hurt! Yummy stuff!
Bought it today. Loved "Thursday Afternoon".
Written by Charles Dicken's great grand daughter - about her brief stint as a nurse in a London hospital.
the poor patients!Maybe she's not quite as untalented as she seems to be.
She didn't kill anyone, and may have helped to save at least one patient.
In Britain in those days (1939 or so), nursing was taught by apprenticeship.
They started off working on the first day, learned on the job and gradually earned more responsibility as they went along.
They took classes, too, but I can't tell they learned much from it.
Her first year exam questions were to describe personal hygiene and tell about the proper design and operation of sewers.
3.5 Not brilliant, but interesting.
Of particular resonance with me was on p.
203:Looking back, I could remember a time when I might have been more rebellious and less blindly acquiescent.
Hospital life does alter your character.
Through working to routine and never to initiative, your brain becomes like a car with a bad pick-up.
One did not notice this in the hospital, where the conversation was unambitious and the humour unsubtle and chiefly lavatorial, but the moment you went among outside people, you felt dull and inadequate.
Sounds like retail to me.
At least corporate retail.
I wasn't as interested in the subject matter as with the previous books of hers I'd read about being a cook and a newspaper writer. This one's fine for what it is, but I felt that the excellent audio narration was carrying the okay-but-not-great story, with some of the highlights leaving me with an "I guess you had to be there" feeling. Some readers may be put off by what would be considered casual racism by today's standards.
I didn't really finish it but I read most of it. I tired of the detail of individual patients even though much was amusing. It brought back memories of my being in a British maternity hospital 30 years later--the large wards, the private rooms, the "sisters" as the head nurses were called.
five fractured femursshe looked like one of those potatoes that people photograph'she began on regurgitation once, at breakfast...''...those bursting sausages, those golden chips, the baked beans sweltering in their tomato sauce - it seemed almost desecration to attack them. Or was it because one was going to eat them that they seemed so beautiful'
