https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5849.A_House_for_Mr_Biswas
This one might make you pull your hair out.
So if you're already bald you may need to read it wearing a wig.
Also, you need a magnifying glass to find the plot.
I had to take samples & send them off to a lab.
Apparently there are detectable traces of story in here.
But.All this is made bearable by V S Naipaul's lovely fluent prose which on more than one occasion lifts the mundane details into the heights of the sublime.Ah!Ain't no must-read, but when you drag your ass to the end you get to have a brief glint of self-satisfaction.
This is a book for adults--people who have struggled continually to figure out how to live their lives, people who have dealt with the opposing forces of obligation to family and the desire for independence.
There are satisfactions to be found in reading besides wanting to know what happens--the ever-changing balance of power in families; the slight accidents that change lives forever; the mulled-over decisions which change lives very little; the hard-won tiny victories; the slight ratcheting up and down of expectations.
This is a crazy thing to say, but if I was responsible for teaching an alien what it is to be human, what it felt like to move through life as a human, I might give it this book.
But at last, aware of my hollow prejudice, I made myself read A House for Mr Biswas and the novel was above all my expectations.“Here and there Mr. Maclean’s roof leaked; that added to the cosiness of shelter.
Water fell from the corrugations in evenly-spaced streams, enclosing the house.
Water flowed down the sloping land below the roof; the pellets of dirt had long disappeared.
A sense of belonging cherished with merited identity-Mr. Mohun Biswas’s house.I shy away from the postcolonial contemporary third world fiction.
Blamed for his father’s death and the dissolution of the Biswas family, he struggles through every twisted fate of his life trying to find a speck of self-respect, contentment and independence.
All the man wants in his life is a cozy dwelling without the fear of acerbic prejudices.
For an individual who not only thrives in poverty but is tossed among bizarre quarters of underprivileged hardships; the belief of owning a house becomes deeply satisfying, somewhat a battle in itself.
Fun fact touching on both V.S. Naipaul and the James Bond movies.
Did you know that A House for Mr. Biswas was once in production as a Broadway musical?
The following quote is from the obituary of songwriter John Barry, The New York Times, 2 Feb. 2011:The origins of the James Bond theme are disputed.
Mr. Norman [Barry's biographer] said that Barry brushed off a musical passage from “Bad Sign, Good Sign,” a song he had written for a musical version of the V.
S. Naipaul novel A House for Mr. Biswas.
With a few adjustments, it became the theme to Dr. No, [the film that launched the James Bond series].Surreal...
Only pick this book up if you wish to slog through more than 600 pages filled with the bickering, moans and wailing of a large Indo-Trinidadian family.
The plot is minimal, and the humor not to my taste.
It bored me to such an extent that I have no desire to more fully explain.
When a book is this boring there is just nothing to say.
After 144 pages: On the back cover Newsweek and Anthony Burgess speak of the book's "comic insight and power".
There is a family where everyone is complaining and picking on each other.
I don't see the humor at all.
2 starsI read this for school ... and sometimes I get lucky and actually like the book that's assigned, however, not so much with this one. It was extremely random throughout the entirety of the book - and there was nothing I really liked when I think about it.Overall, I'm pretty glad to be done with it.
Naipaul has created a character in Mohun Biswas who is, at once, deeply unsympathetic – prone to minor spites, absurd self-regard, and the petty enactment of drawn-out and demeaning grudges against those nearest to him – but whose struggle to assert his independence, identity and worth against the odds (even against the fate outlined for him at birth) is utterly compelling.
The descriptions of family life, of community, and of the natural and social landscape of mid-twentieth Trinidad are lush and gloriously sensual.
Naipaul combines acute psychological observation and a satirical social and political sensibility to tell, beautifully, a simple human story.
It is this search for a sense of identity and belonging that underpins Naipaul’s story of Mohun Biswas.
His search for a house is ultimately part of a much larger search to establish his selfhood, struggling to delineate himself apart from the larger identity of the family that he is born into and then of the family that he marries into.
Biswas is a hodge-podge of cultures: an Indian in a land far away from India growing up speaking English and reading works like Epiticus and Marcus Aurelius while also flirting with Indian Aryanism and carrying out pujas with little real belief in them, neither Indian nor English and belonging to no real part of the world.
'The world is what it is,' and so is TrinidadWhile Naipaul may seem to be copying the modality of the nineteenth century novel, his main intention here is to construct a self-propagating comic system (in a post-colonial set-up).
Incident after incident, Naipaul delivers jokes that seem driven by their own causes at first; but become signifiers of some monumental tragedy by the time they end -- tragedy is, in fact, always surreptitiously at work in the novel.
A time comes, maybe when around a third of the novel is read, that the reader comes to be completely dissolved in the all-so-real tribulations of Mr. Biswas's world.
Naipaul is aiming for something far more epic: to describe a man's life.
He takes an ordinary, sometimes riduculous man, and makes him an unknowing hero in his own life.Biswas's life would not be nearly as satisfying to learn about if it were not draped in the lush language of V.S. Naipaul, who coaxes high drama and sincere emotion from his character's ramblingly ordinary life.
All that Mr. Biswas wants is respect, not money, not love, not recognition just respect……Born in Trinidad in a poor home he is tricked into marrying Shama Tulsi daughter of the well known, very rich Tulsi House, all because he had had the temerity to write ‘I love you’ on a scrap of paper and hand it over to her.
In desperation, Mr. Biswas does acquire a little, badly constructed house and he lives for the first time in his life away from the Tulsis, although Shama can never sever the umbilical chord.Strangely, although Mr. Biswas’ life seems one of constant failures and misery, it just does not appear to be so.
3.5. I expected more. While I'm certain the novel is deeper than I read, it's difficult to fault one for being so distracted by the protagonist Mr. Biswas' narrative voice, which is undoubtedly one of the most annoying, cringe-inducing in all of literature. Think: "Coffee Talk" with special guests, Fran Drescher and Sponge Bob Squarepants.
A House for Mr Biswas by V.S. Naipaul is a wonderful book, included in The Modern Library Top 100 books (at : http://www.modernlibrary.com/top-100/...
)In fact, I had such a great time reading it, that I only ended it after a long delay: I never wanted to part with Mr Biswas, his family and Trinidad Island.
As it happens, I identified with the main character.
A House for Mr Biswas is a Great Book and an immense joy to read..I had read A Bend in The River, also by V.S. Naipaul- before A House for Mr Biswas and found it as great a joy to read..
It is about a life of a man, Mr Biswas, trapped in the web of a large, matriarchal and very tightly controlled family which he does not seem to have a will to leave.
The first one is a fine example of realism about Mr Biswas early life and the Tulsi family he is married into.
He locked himself in his room.”Reading this novel I understood the origins of Naipaul personality with his often mysogynistic attitude to women, his quiet approval of the cast system (at least superior brahmanism), his desire to belong and his lack of loyalty to people who helped him.
"So later, and very slowly, in securer times of different stresses, when the memories had lost the power to hurt, with pain or joy, they would fall into place and give back the past." - Page 557Found near the very end of the novel, this little gem of a sentence is not only a beautiful and evocative bit of prose in it's own right (which it certainly is), but also seems to me a perfect key to understanding Naipaul's wonderful novel about Mohun Biswas, a most unfortunate man trying to get by in post-colonial Trinidad.
Until the age of forty, he was doomed to live in the houses of his wife's family where he felt belittled.I am puzzled as to why I found the novel so readable.
It is essentially a sad story and so is the life of Mr Biswas threaded with defeats and humiliations.I kept hoping he would triumph somehow but his accomplishments were miniscule, reminding me that history is actually made up mostly of people living from day to day with hopes that are largely dashed but always harboring those hopes as an incentive to rise above mere survival.A House For Mr Biswas is considered to be Naipaul's breakout book.
Difficult to keep the clear idéees when a book is preceded such a reputation. Sublimate, inevitably sublimates. We can only find that brilliant. Respect. End of history.Can we not like what everyone likes. Can one not hate but find that only well made but not transcendantal.If not it is well written, but I have difficulty to impassioning myself for this history.
The Trinidadian-English dialogue is just brilliant, and the people are all so tragic and hilarious at the same time, and Mr. Biswas is called Mr. Biswas from the time he is BORN. How can you beat that? Even if you think Naipaul's politics stink, there's no denying this book is a masterpiece.

Here, Hanuman House is everybody's nightmare mother-in-law's.
The name evokes the Hindu god of war, a common stereotype of the mother-in-law made new in its witty application to the family home.
Since Hanuman House holds all the in-laws, including brothers-in-law and Biswas' wife's nieces etc., this is the House of War, of family wars.
Biswas' house seems to me not much bigger than Thoreau's little cabin, though Biswas builds a small verandah I think.
In fact, Biswas indebts himself to build his modest house, and he encounters both job and health difficulties with age.
Early on, Naipaul regales us with the superstitions retailed by pundits in both Hindu and Caribbean culture.
I was hoping for something more like A Fine Balance, and since Naipaul has won a few awards, including the Nobel, I thought I could expect something more than what it is.
I just looked at a couple of reviews (both a 4-star and a 2-star) and it just isn't going to get better.
I've said many times that I really like my life, but it isn't very interesting in the retelling.
However, he didn't like his life much and it was even less interesting in the retelling than my life.
The book begins with a prologue, (doesn’t rely at all on suspense) as Mr. Biswas’s age of death is revealed, and that he has at last found a house of his own… Ina single paragraph, Naipaul renders foreshadows the entire novel for us.
‘The old man can smell a thing like that before you even think it.’ Read back at Ajodha’s behavior with Biswas, and you get what am saying here.
For instance, in the early pages, Naipaul writes of Biswas’s niece Suniti… ‘The news that Mr. Biswas was negotiating for a house of his own had gone around Shama’s family.
It is a painful book to read because a lot of the things Naipaul has written about has happened in your own family or household.
The book is about a lot of things - a Hindu upbringing, life in a Hindu joint family, the post-colonial experience .....
A lot of people hate Naipaul, but the more I read his books, the more I feel like he is the only Indian writer (or writer of Indian origin) who writes the terrible and horrifying truth about the Indian experience.
It follows a callow teenager of a Mr Biswas as he makes a tentative pass at Shama, the daughter of the Tulsis, the vast joint family that inhabits Hanuman House.
It takes him into the house as Shama’s bridegroom, soon lost in the ordered chaos of the Tulsi household, trying desperately to keep his head up, learning the politics of the family, building relationships, seeing them disintegrate.
The theme that runs throughout the book (and which is indicated by its very title) is, of course, that of Mr Biswas’s attempt to buy, build, or rent a house for himself and his family.
أحلام السيد بيسواس لم تكن كبيرة ، فهو لم يحلم بأكثر من الزواج من فتاة يعيش معها الحياة التي رآها في الكتب ممكنة ، ثم أنه تمنّى أن تكون له مهنة تناسب طموحاته ، ثم أنه تمنّى أن يحظى بالإحترام ، ثم أخيراً تمنّى أن يكون له بيت ؛ بيت يكون له بمثابة الوطن ، يحتضنه حين تقسو عليه الدنيا ، ويستطيع أن يحتمي بجدرانه من غدرها ، وأن يبكي دون أن يصل بكاؤه إلى سمع أحد .
UPDATE: This brilliant author passed this month and President Obama honored him by reading this masterpiece.
It's one of the best books I've ever read so it feels great being a fan along with President Obama, one of our greatest Presidents ever, if not THE BEST ever.
Since reading this book, I have read more of Naipaul, and he is indeed a genius.ORIGINAL REVIEW:The "house" in the title alludes to a physical structure, a dwelling place, certainly.
This book is the entire life of Mr. Biswas, to me an original character in literature.
I will definitely read more work by V.S. Naipaul, truly an original voice.
This novel is, as Ben Thurley wrote on Goodreads, “excruciating” and yet highly "enjoyable." It succeeds less because of the detritus of the title character’s mostly miserable life than because of the third-person, nearly omniscient narrator’s wonderfully observing voice. There were many times I wanted to put down this overlong novel, but there are so many singularly moving, humorous, and enlightening passages and sections that I would have been foolish as Mr. Biswas to have abandoned it.If you give this book a try, be as stoical as Mr. Biswas’s favorite philosophers and as Naipaul’s narrator, as well.
Living legend V.S. Naipaul's masterpiece. This anti-bildungsroman traces the protagonist (supposedly based on Naipaul's father) from being "born wrong" to his tragic but timely death. The sweep and detail of the novel will amaze you, but it's not for the faint-of-heart: Mohun Biswas is not a likeable character, and the circumstances of his life (post-colonial Trinidad) are difficult. Put aside your judgements of him and let yourself get caught up in the story. You won't be disappointed.
I had the greatest connection with what Mr. Biswas was going through. It helped me to find peace with the truth that what is perfect for one person does not actually have to be perfect, it just has to be theirs.
