https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93947.Simple_Genius

This book picks up where we left off with the main characters, Sean King and Michelle Maxwell in Book 2, Hour Game.
Sean is trying to help her overcome her issues.While dealing with Michelle, Sean takes a job with his ex-lover, Joan, to investigate a questionable suicide at a Washington DC Area research laboratory (Babbage Town) …which just happens to be across the river from an ultra-secret CIA training camp.
I like the main characters, King and Maxwell, and their relationship as well as a few of the other characters in this book.
However, the main story line involving Babbage Town did not hold my interest nor did it always hold up as well and I thought it should.
Michelle suffered from breakdown, showing suicidal tendency, picked up a fight and being beaten, and must checked herself voluntarily (with Sean's insistence) for treatment.
But I really didn't remember (and didn't want to, honestly)What I loved from the previous two books were simple murders and investigation, with Sean and Michelle working together, throwing light and friendly banters.
It was totally different and I didn't enjoy it at all.The only thing that still salvage the book, albeit slightly for me, was also the plot that I disliked in the beginning.
HOWEVER, I also didn't believe that Michelle from previous two books could arrive to this point.
Private Investigator Sean King has been hired to look into the death of Monk Turing, a physicist whose body was found at a secret CIA Training Camp.
Monk worked at a laboratory named Babbage Town, a private facility across the York River from the training camp.
Sean moves into Babbage Town to interview Monk's co-workers and learn what he was working on before his death.
With the help of his partner, Michelle Maxwell, Sean needs to uncover the truth of what is happening across the river.This book started off with Michelle entering a mental hospital after nearly being killed in a barroom brawl.
I just hated this book. The story was implausable and the subplots were so poorly constructed. Halfway through the book, I would have rated it as ok but the last 30 pages were just idiotic.

Just horrible.
Horrible dialogue.
The only thing worse than the cliches of angry FBI agent and bumbling local law enforcement was what Baldacci did to Michelle Maxwell's character.
I read several reviews of the previous King and Maxwell book (The Hour Game) where many (including me) were critical that there was no character development for Michelle Maxwell.
Also, for those who have read The Hour Game, Baldacci sets another scene of boats gone wild during an incredible storm.
Can't believe he got away with that when he did the exact same thing in the last book.
تدور احداث الرواية بينَ عالم الشفرات المعقد وصولا إلى الحرب على الإرهاب بمعاييرها المزدوجة وقوانينها الفضفاضة ..وأبطالها كثير من عباقرة الرياضيات والفيزياء يحيط بهم عسكريون ومحققان من القطاع الخاص ..يعلقان في عالم الأسرار والمعلومات المضللة ..يخرجان منها ببراعة .. أحببت الرواية كثيراً تحدثت عن عالم الشفرات وتاريخها والطرق المستخدمة عبر العصور ..تعامل الكاتب مع القصة بطريقة فريدة وكلمة المؤلف الموجودة في صفحات الرواية الأخيرة هي الجزء المفضل لدي ..المتعة كل المتعة هي رواية بقلم ديفيد بالدتشي ..
In the case of Sean King and Michelle Maxwell, it should be followed.
While the main stories are separate, the relationship between Sean and Michelle and the internal battles they battle are revealed and dealt with in order.
"Simple Genius" is a great thriller.
Once again Baldacci employs a strong storyline with several twists to keep the reader fully engaged until the end.A genius scientist is found dead on CIA property, while his death is generally accepted to be suicide, some people associated with his employer aren't convinced.
The readers are treated to a main mystery, a secondary mystery, insight into what makes Michelle tick, and a peek at how Sean and Michelle's relationship may change.
Suspense, action, intrigue, and science all make their way into it.
Baldacci’s intricate writing really enticed me.
Not only was I caught up in the action of the tale, I was also trying to unravel the mystery and was completely smitten with the science.The characters were fantastic.
Even though this isn’t the first novel of the series, Baldacci develops his man characters in such a manner that readers can get to know them from here, without rehashing past events.
I also enjoyed the variety of secondary characters that we get to know.
(We know how far from hidebound he is because he wears jeans and black t-shirts and drives a Harley.) Restoring Michelle to mental health does not come cheap, so Sean takes on a gig that connects him to a certain high-powered and mysterious enclave in Virginia called Babbage Town.
Baggage Town is high-powered because the scientists who work on its behalf are super bright, and it’s mysterious because no one really knows what they’re working on—except that a breakthrough could bring “the world as we know it to a screeching halt.” There, Sean finds the adorable Viggie, an 11-year-old girl genius (mathematics) who is targeted by various nasty types attempting to exploit her.
I couldn't do it.
I just couldn't do it.The prose is abysmal - clunky and ill-formed, repetitive and childlike - and the mechanics are just...awful.
We don't need to be reminded of the characters' surnames every other paragraph.
You really can use words that have more than one syllable, and sentences that exhibit some actual structure.
Really, it's okay.And I couldn't even begin to get into the plot.
It started telegraphing itself very, very quickly - damaged operative!
romantic tension!
high-tech...something!
- but didn't do a very good job of casting a line, let alone setting a hook.Beyond that, a hacker named "Turing"?
2.5 Promising beginning but fizzled for me.
While Michelle is in Rehab, Sean King is on a mission of his own, he is called to investigate a murder that took place at a top-secret CIA Training Camp and laboratory installation known as Babbage Town, almost an Area 51 type complex, only not as heavily defended, HAHA!
With King and Maxwell with hardly any allies to assist, they dig further into the mystery behind the murder and the mystery of Babbage Town.One of the side-stories involved quantum physics and mathematicians, which was very complicated and hard for me to understand.
I can't say I loved this one.
I'm a big fan of suspense and this one really dragged through the middle.
I loved the characters so I pressed on, but the ending was sloppy and unsatisfying.
I also have a hard time with the way Baldacci writes women; they're always described by their attractiveness and desire- apparently the only two things that matter and make a book appealing to a male audience.
THEN, there's the language element and salacious content of his books.
Is it too much to ask for clean suspense?
Does anyone know of any books that satisfy both male and female readers?
Well, I thought I'd give a David Baldacci book another go as I managed to get this and The Bourne Sanction on a fairly cheap deal at a second hand bookstore.
I missed Hour Game as they didn't have it in stock, but I'll probably have to go back and read that at some point because although Baldacci's books may not always be the best they're still, decent reads that you'll get through quickly.
Sadly like with the first King & Maxwell there wasn't anything too great about this book but at the same time it wasn't entirely awful either.
"It's too dangerous." Sean King and Michelle Maxwell are back in a fresh case and this time it's in simple genius a masterpiece where both King and Maxwell are taken to the wire when trying to solve the death of Monk Turning.
Word after simple word, sentence after sentence are put together in such a fashion as to make the book a delight to read.
Before tagging Simple Genius as the next to be read book, I read some reviews of the book and didn't like all that I read.
Just like the hero of the fantasy novel, King and Maxwell are above average.
But now that I've read Baldacci's book, the shoe is on the other foot and I can't let go.
It all boils down to preference and the existence of a writing style that Baldacci has cracked and is compatible with me and people who think like me.
Still this/these will probably be the parts of the book that some other readers like best.Here a murder takes place on a shadowy government reservation.
The victim has climbed onto the grounds of what turns out to be a CIA facility and ...apparently...killed himself.
Though there is apparently someone who thinks it was foul play.Our heroes are in trouble...Michelle has seemingly cracked and either set out to kill a stranger, or get herself killed by said stranger.
He mental/emotional state is a key part of the plot as we "go along".
This novel spends a great deal of time not being suspenseful.
While she deals (?) with those King heads off to handle the case that Maxwell eventually shows up for after she is cured (?) and solves her own somewhat irrelevant case.Despite the fact these two characters are former secret service agents and now run their own investigative firm, they seem to have a need to trust the wrong people - which of course puts them in more danger.I found the way Maxwell's issues were handled tiring.
Sometimes something would push her over the edge and then other times a more physically and emotionally exhausting incident was just another day at work for her.The code mentioned in the novel was interesting; I would have preferred more involvement with figuring that out.
3.5 StarsAfter book 2 in this series which I really enjoyed and gave us plenty of scope to work out who the killer was I was very disappointed by this book.
This part of the book I enjoyed, however I never really bought into the main murder mystery, partly because we weren't given enough details and the author kept too many key elements to himself.
To be a real murder mystery we should have more of a chance working out who did it, and more importantly why.
Hopefully the next book in the series will get back on track.
My rating: 4.5*I definitely enjoyed this book but...without spoiling anything (hopefully), I felt as if the premise for this book was a little...surprising to me.
I enjoyed the whole play-out of the story, as I always do with Baldacci, but I couldn't help but wonder how much Baldacci knew about her past and if he'd woven that in or if it kind of "came" to him for this third book.
Nonetheless, I enjoyed the story and getting lost in the mind of Sean and seeing the hardcore nature of Michelle!
It's a wild ride and full of surprises.
I enjoy reading about Michelle Maxwell and Sean King's relationship and adventures.
This book was very good but a little slow in some parts but picked up towards the end.
Figuring out who was good and who was bad also added to the plot and kept me guessing until the very end.
I will definitely continue reading the series and I do look forward to the next installment and what will be happening with Michelle and Sean.
I would highly recommend this series to those who love mystery and adventure mixed in with a little romance.
3.5 STARS - I LIKED ITAUDIOBOOKAnother successful read by David Baldacci. When I'm in the mood for an assassin/military/investigation type read, David Baldacci is my go-to author. His writting is always solid and I know I will get an enjoyable read. His Will Robie series is my favorite, but I haven't not liked a book by him yet.
Kept me entertained for a day. I like the fact that Maxwell and King haven't leapt into bed together, that they aren't perfect and yet they still come out on top. The books are plot driven, it's what keeps you reading the series. Have to see if the library has the next in the series tomorrow morning.
Another David BaldacciPage Turner!
Enjoying the King Maxwell series Simple Genius took us in to our two agents lives .and it was worth while It worked for me looking forward to start No4#
i got to page 34 before I put this book down. This author has no story-telling ablity and writes incredibly choppy sentences. I couldn't stand to keep reading.
This book had a very interesting twist in it compared to Baldacci's usual! The book was still intriguing and interesting, and different concepts needed to take place. Never mind that the author totally missed described and misrepresented NP complete (I have a Masters degree in theoretical computer science), but it was totally inconsequential to the story itself. This is the second book I've read lately that had encryption as a main plot point :-). Overall, the interaction of the characters and the plot were wonderful! Another success by David Baldacci!
The third in the King & Maxwell starts with Michelle Maxwell suffering from dangerous mental health problems, while Sean King takes on an assignment into a suspicious death at a remote science compound working on quantum computing and cryptography. The plot takes us into some computing and codebreaking history about Alan Turing - by total coincidence I am also reading his biography at the moment. This book is way too long and so only 3 stars.
