https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2815949-barefoot-contessa-back-to-basics
Unlike many of the Martha Stewart Living recipes I've tried, you don't get halfway through a Barefoot Contessa recipe only to find that you were supposed to soak the pears for your cake or whatever in some liquor for three months last fall (true story) or something equally as ridiculous.
(excluding famous chefs and Stepford wives, that is) I love the Barefoot Contessa cookbooks because Ina Garten's recipes are fairly easy while still maintaining the kind of elegance that makes you want to light candles and have friends over.
Every time I make something from one of her cookbooks people ask me where I got the recipe.
The book is separated into sections like breakfast, lunch, dinner and my most favorite-desserts.Ina's introduction to this edition is great and not to be bypassed on your way to the recipes.
The recipes in this book are very easy to follow and most don't include a list of ingredients that is so long that you're scared to even contemplate trying it out.
It's got more of my favorite ingredients like garlic and parmesan; the only thing I would leave out is pine nuts as I'm allergic but this is definitely another recipe I plan on trying soon.
But when I use a cookbook, I want it to be just that: a collection of recipes.
I am not interested in the page-long descriptions of why cooking is so great, and how to buy ingredients, and anything else that the author feels like sharing.
So the 9 introductory pages could have been summarized a lot more concisely.On the plus side, the photographs are beautiful, although it makes me feel this book is more a coffee-table book than a cookbook.The recipes all seem quite tasty and simple to make, but being a student, they are not what I would call 'back to basics'.
Many of these recipes are now staples in my menu-planning. They are all delicious, albeit too fattening to eat every day!
They all looked delicious, but just for various reasons I probably won't be making most of them.
One book (maybe this one?) had an essay about how she only has the essential pans - and not so many that she can't store them with their lids on.
Oh, she also believes you should have more than one mixing bowl so you can swap one out after it's dirty and not have to wash it right away - she means for the Kitchen Aid. Needless to say this essay made me laugh.
Apparently she hasn't been to my kitchen that is too small for a dishwasher.
I'm going to think of this one as the fennel and dill book because seriously, has she always used so much fresh fennel and dill?
(I did not make any of the fennel or dill recipes but I am planting fennel this spring, so I'll have to revisit.)We made (and my thoughts): baked blintzes with fresh blueberry sauce: definitely an easier method but still not equal to the blintzes I had at a brunch in L.A. while on vacation (HEAVEN!).
I found a delicious potato salad recipe in this book - so yummy, in fact, that I have to find it again! I really like the style and the photos are gorgeous. The layout is very clean and enticing, and Ina Garten's writing voice is warm and friendly. I definitely want to add this to my permanent cookbook collection one day.
I've already tried a number of recipes in this book, but I'm starting from scratch (so to speak) so I can fully enjoy all of the wonderful tips, anecdotes and lovely photographs from cover to cover.
Ina comes across as very personable and genuine on food network ... sadly, however, this cookbook is just another celebrity cook money making gambit ... it does however have beautiful photography and is a triumph of form over substance ... some of the recipes are good, others well, you are better of checking youtube ... had a feeling this cookbook would be less than stellar, so bought it used ... glad i did, i wud have been upset had i paid full price
Again, this is one of the cookbooks used in my cooking club, where a large group of test the recipes. What a great cookbook! The recipes were well written and easy to follow. And did I mention delicious?
Good basic recipes
In a is the queen of the kitchen i bought all her cookbooks and use them all the time.
Seriously fantastic recipes. I've tried 5 of them before finishing reading through the book. I have about forty post-its tagging recipes to be tried very soon.Thank you Ina!!
Ina Garten makes the cooking seem easy.
There was nothing "basic" about this cookbook.
❤I think barefoot contessa back to basics will be a perfect book for anyone Who are starting to learn how to cook and(❤ will love it. ❤)Find more out onFood network.com❤
What can I say - I am loving reading her cookbooks! So many recipes to try, so many great tips - so little time to use them all!!!
Author, culinary icon Ina Garten presents a beautiful palate of expertise (common sense), elegance without complications and easy recipes with great photos which will enable anyone to become a wonderful cook.
While her process for making a turkey is not in this book I would recommend it and all it takes is finding the Google button.
Using her technique for the first time this past Thanksgiving the turkey I made was by far the most delicious one I have prepared.
I wished I had attended her recent appearance in Mpls; I hear it was a great event.
What I love about the mag is how its introduced me to cooking that incorporates fresh ingredients that make for the BEST meals but that it's also fairly simple stuff.
I can’t stand cookbooks by restaurant chefs who have no idea how people cook or what home cooking consists of; they’re so used to having sous chefs and dishwashers that they have no idea how to write recipes for people who don’t.
This is my favorite cookbook since Suzanne Goin’s Sunday Suppers at Lucques (Goin being a perfect example of a restaurant chef who knows how to write for home cooks).
Like most folks, I was introduced to Ms. Garten via her Barefoot Contessa teevee show on the Food Network.
As I was collecting (and still do) French influenced cookbooks, I purchased Barefoot in Paris (along with the companion travel journey), and fell further in love with her.
Ms. Garten's latest offers a collection of savory recipes for breakfast, lunch and dinner along with the cocktail hour and sections on soups, vegetables and desserts.
Ms. Garten shares menu ideas and resources, and takes the stress out of preparing, what looks like elaborate courses, with the basic of ingredients.
minor changes i would suggest: use 1/4 cup of olive oil instead of 1/2 cup, feel free to skip on the fresh oregano if not keen (you get enough flavour from parsley and garlic) and can prepare using a blender instead of food processor if you're like me and struggle with turing on your food processor (note: i also had to add a little olive oil in the blender for liquid)i have a recipe for chicken stock that i've been following for years.
the flavour is amazing; however, i very much recommend tying the herbs and if you have available in cheesecloth (bouquet garni).
I love this cookbook!
Barefoot Back to Basics has the same great narration by Ina Garten and wonderful recipes that you will easily make over again for family and company.
Great appetizers include; roasted shrimp cocktail, parmesan and thyme crackers and the bookclub favorite of pomegranite cosmopolitans.
Desserts include; yummy brownie pudding and pumpkin roulade with ginger buttercream...There are many more favorites, all I find are easy to prepare and taste great.
A really great addition and investment in your cookbook collection.
I do appreciate the simplicity of the Barefoot Contessa books.
Unlike some books which promise simple recipes and don't deliver, everything offered here is really feasible for just about anyone: you can spend the day cleaning your house and still pull off these menus.
However, I find the taste doesn't always deliver, and I've had some dishes that were a disaster (my tongue still puckers at the lemon chicken).
I knew it wasn't all in my imagination when my husband asked me not to make any more dishes from this book!
Maybe it's not the Barefoot Contessa; maybe it's me.

Serves as a great reminder.Ina's included some of my favorite dishes:Sweet potato fries -- I tried this both roasted and fried.
Roasted is better.
Wild mushroom risotto -- I think of risotto as a side dish, but Ina places it as a main dinner dish which also works.
Coq au vin -- I will always think of this as the purple chicken dish.
A braised dish.I love the commentaries scattered between recipes.
I even laughed at the one about NOT buying little pretty knick knacks and sticking with brands like Cuisinart and All Clad.
All Clad has nice pots.
Quick, easy recipes that are easy to add to your "rotation".
The title is perfect, because many of these recipes really are basic - roasted carrots & parsnips, pasta with just truffle butter, garlic bread with herbs...
most require few ingredients & basic techniques.
and want them to shine in a dish, this is good book for you.
The photography is beautiful and the layout is simple and pretty.
Plus, since these recipes are so simple (roasted tomatoes get two full pages), it seems like more content could have been added.
But then again, this is a book about basics.
I love Ina's recipes because she uses "regular" ingredients you already have in your kitchen to produce fantastic results.
Also, love all the great baking, cooking, table setting tips throughout the book.
Her style of cooking is a direct line to my palette so I have made many, many of her recipes like the Baked Shrimp Scampi, her Italian Wedding Soup, and the Raisin Pecan Oatmeal Cookie to name a very few.
The results were fantastic and everyone always wants to know the recipe which I happily pass along.

I've made three recipes from this book in the last week and have found them all OUTSTANDING: Tuscan Lemon Chicken, Pasta with Pecorino & Pepper, and Orange-Pecan Wild Rice.
I like Garten's non-nonsense approach to cooking, relying on fresh, basic ingredients.
She has several wonderful lists in her book, including "Top 10 Things NOT to serve at a Dinner Party" and "10 no-cook things to serve for Dessert." Her recipes are well-written, and include "tips" to fill in the blanks (e.g. HOW to toast pecans in a recipe that calls for toasted pecans).This is a great book for anyone who likes to cook, or more importantly, likes to eat!
So once again my darling brother gave me this book.But I know how to cook!
Ah you may think so too, but this book is not the basic how to boil an egg as others have published...but a plethora of recipes many I did not know, but all of which or superbe...a must for all cooks!
I began to read and what a pleasure, her heart gones into these books and I always enjoy trying out a new recipe...Even if you are a beginner cook - I would suggest her books over any other...the recipes are faultless and even if it does not look perfect it is homemade - anything made with good ingredients and love has to be good (or almost!).
