https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5201089-the-kings-of-clonmel
Will does this, and Crowley tells him that he has been moved to Redmont fief to share half of it with Halt.
Crowley assigns Will, Halt, and Horace (Will's current best friend, and a knight) to investigate Clonmel.
The Outsiders' leader, Tennyson, is angry, and challenges Horace to duel his two giant bodyguards.
رازی که این سه تن از آن آگاه شده اند، رازی ست که نه تنها کلانمل، بلکه کل پادشاهی سرزمین را تهدید میکند.
این رمان در 46 بخش نوشته شده است.
راهش را ادامه داد، و صبر کرد تا چند چادر خالی را رد کند.
Somehow I'd lost momentum on this series once Will became a full Ranger, and had pretty much decided not to continue.
Then on a whim after taking a break for a few years, I decided to give it one more chance, and was rewarded with an adventurous tale full of quiet humor and deeds of both intelligence and valor.
I don't know if it was me or the last couple of books before this one, but I now remember what I found endearing about this series in the first place.
I have definite plans to pick up the next book, and I don't think I'll wait so long.
I like rangers.
This sounded like it might be set in Scotland and that would be cool by me, even if it turned out to be fantasy or historical fiction.
Sure, it looked to be a YA book and generally I've found that I'm getting too old for those, but hey, I thought I could at least bank on this being heavy on the adventure.
I think giving a book a couple chapters to horse-collar you is fair enough.
Personally, this experience hasn't made me want to rush out and read book one.
Actually, it's more of a 2.5 rating.For the longest time, it felt like nothing was happening.
Now, instead, the plot is often fueled by the main characters' mistakes or chancy failures at the worst time possible.
Like this there are another myriad stupid actions that just ruin the heroes' credibility for me.In this book in particular:(view spoiler)[Will's IQ seems to have dropped to Forrest Gump's level.
He's told Tennyson plan—which is a very simple plan—several times.
It's like he never heard of Tennyson's plan at all.Then we have the Genovesans.
Everytime I read books from this series I come away thinking the same 4 things:1- John Flanagan is really not that great of a writer2- The story line is very predictable with no surprises or unforseen twists3- I have a hard time believing that a character like a ranger in this book could be so smart one moment and then so dumb the next.
Sometimes they seem like superheroes who could take on a whole army by themselves, and other times they seem like they struggle to take down a single character.
Make up your mind Flanagan!
That was such a good start to the next arc in the overall series. Definitely loved learning about Halt's background! I think the ending was a bit rushed, but I'm pretty pumped to continue the series again now.
The Kings of Clonmel wasn't my favourite book of the series, but I still, obviously, really enjoyed it.
The first half just threw mind-blowing plot twists at me again and again, and I was a little overwhelmed - in a good way - with all the new information, especially about Halt's history.I also really loved seeing more of Halt and Horace together.
They have such an adorable and hilarious relationship, and I loved seeing that blossom.
Also Horace just really grew as a character in this book.
I look forward to Halt's Peril and seeing more of Clonmel.
سه ستاره دادم به خاطر مجموعه اش... ولی داستان این کتابش رو دوست نداشتم! خیلی سردستی بود... مخصوصا بعد از شاهکار جلد قبلی. + هالت شاهزاده باشه؟ کام آن!
(I was spoiled about one part - (view spoiler)[Halt being the true King of Clonmel thing (hide spoiler)] - but luckily the story didn't hinge on that reveal and it was mostly a plot set-up piece more than anything.) Anyway, one thing that I've missed in some of the recent books is that Will and Halt were separated for most of the story, and I really enjoyed seeing these three together again.The story itself was a good one, containing a good bit of suspense and action and some darkness.
Quite good.
Halt, Will and Horace are called into the neighboring kingdom of Clonmel to help discredit a cult that has been working to quietly seize power.
Unfortunately it felt like a forgone conclusion that the characters would win out, by feats even more fantastic than ever before.
Nothing about Halt's character indicates he would abandon his people and leave without a fight.
It's possible I just missed or forgot that, but it still felt like a major reach to make the plot work for the author and thus I kept saying ya right whenever this element entered the story.
This one and book 9 are two of my favorites of the series.
The cult aspect of the book might make some people uncomfortable because it plays with truth, but it doesn't bother me because it clearly shows it is a cult and that's how cults work.
Distorting truth for their own ends.
Things I love about this book: - Halt, Horace, and Will all traveling and working together.
These books are best when that happens.
Like Horace, everyone assumes Halt's claim in the Icebound Land (not going to say what that is due to spoilers) is a lie.
I always enjoy the exploits of Will and Horace, and it was good to learn about Halt's mysterious background. However, the plot was very predictable. Alternate history adventure. Discredit a vicious religious cult before they take control of Hibernia. Watch out for those nasty foreign assassins, Genovesans from Toscana.
The Kings of Clonmel, the book in which Will expresses his love for Halt's hair.
I think this is one of my favorite Ranger's books I've read so far!!
The Kings of Clonmel has presented me with a dilemma: do I like this book better, or my old favorite, The Siege of Macindaw?
The plot is a little more complicated than the earlier books, which for me made it only more enjoyable.
Halt, Will and Horace work to discredit a cult that is stealing valuables from small villages in neighboring Hibernia under the pretense of protecting them and threatening to dethrone Clonmel's not especially loved monarch, King Ferris.
But when Tennyson, the con artist posing as a religious leader, attempts to sabotage the contest at arms, can Will and Halt be in time to save Horace?
Note: This review does contain some small spoilers, nothing you won't learn within 200 pages.So far, this is a great book. It explores a little bit of Halt's past, something that I have always wanted to know, and revisits some old places and people you haven't seen the first two books. It also tells you for the first time about the Ranger Gathering, a quite humorous event, and about the Ranger initiation ceremony. So far, there is no book better in the series.
3.5 STARS. 6/10. Probably my least favourite out of the series. Still good, just the least good in the series, I kinda feel like this one and Halt’s peril could have just been combined. Oh well, still good.
This book was a bit boring and slow. I enjoy the books more, when the books is about more characters than just the three old friends. Furhtermore I missed a strong female character in this one like Evanlyn or Alyss!
I liked this book, but not quite as much as some others in the series.
For everyone who has read any of the previous books, it's quite clear the only time Halt ever gets emotional is when it comes to Will … so … there isn't really a lot of emotionality going on in this one either.The evil cult thing was actually quite fun and interesting … if I had a feeling the heros would have just struggled a tiny little bit at any point but unless they are outright drugged out of their minds nothing could possibly stop these three.
It was great to be back in this world with these characters going on another adventure!
This has been one of my favorite series in the past couple of years, and this book is right up there with my favorites in the series.
It was great getting to know some of Halt's past.
I would love an entire series based around Halt's early years as a Ranger, and this gave just a small taste of how great that series could be!
I also love Will and Horace.
I look forward to October when book 9, Halt's Peril, is released in the US!
I have over an extended period of time read several of these books and I find them (on the whole anyway) excellent.
I think that older readers (read adult) may well enjoy these as well as YA readers.
Some will say these are more a "boy's" read or a "male" read but I think you females out there may enjoy them also.Here to we get a great story delving a little into Halt's background while expanding our heroes and moving their story forward.
A great read and an excellent book.
The book was ok, but not a particularly good effort. It seems like Flanagan isn't really putting too much pressure on himself to write the kind of stories that made his first four books so popular to begin with. The last 4 books read very much like someone coasting on their early success. This may not be the case, but the results are the same.
I picked this up because my nephew left it on table. I had started to read one Ranger's Apprentice before, and couldn't finish it. I read about 1/4, and the adventure was pretty boring, the characters were flat, and the love interest was cardboard. Best scene - when young Will's adventure in previous books had been turned into a training exercise for his own apprentices, and he had to explain to them that they couldn't use his solution because they didn't have those resources available. LOL "the problems stay the same, but the solutions keep changing" - Lois McMaster Bujold
It was refreshing to become reacquainted with characters that I really like.
This story took a different twist that I really enjoyed.
The story ended with a complete ending and yet led nicely into the next book without an annoying cliff hanger.
John Flanagan is an incredible story teller.
In addition he is clean!
One example from the book was with language.
Halt got upset by something.
Rather than swearing, it said something like "Horace heard Halt say some words he was familiar with and some he'd never heard before." How refreshing!!!
Another great book in this series. I loved finding out more about Halt's background.
I really enjoyed this book, and there were plenty of plot twist! Many old secrets were discovered. It was also fun to visit another kingdom in this book as well!
I still love this series!
De wereld van Will en Arnaut wordt groter.
