https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25622850-carol
It saddens me to think this book has been stuffed into a musty box labeled "lesbian romance" and left to molder for over fifty years.
It is a terrifying fairy tale told beside a phalanx of glass-eyed dolls.
It is the sunlit long drive when you had mommy all to yourself and you sat in the front seat and she told you how much she loved you and you knew you were her favorite.
A couple of scenes sizzle: in the women's first meeting, Therese, who's working part-time in a department store before Xmas, helps out Carol, who's looking for a doll, and the two obviously share a connection; and there's a terrifically catty scene later on between Therese and Carol's nosy (and possibly also lesbian) friend Abby.Director Todd Haynes, who brought 50s-style hidden homosexuality so evocatively to the screen in Far From Heaven, is directing a forthcoming adaptation of the book (called Carol), with Cate Blanchett (see production pic above) and Rooney Mara in the leads.
And there might be some spoilery things, but no more than I was spoiled before reading it, so...it's probably not too bad.I spent a large part of this being depressed because Carol's a total dick to Therese most of the time.
And who doesn't love a road trip book?
Because this is two ladies in love WHO ROAD TRIP IT.
I must confess that at first I couldn't quite understand why Therese felt so drawn to Carol.
I mean, I understood why she was drawn to her in the first place, but why she kept coming back after the many strange meetings with Carol?
Usually, when you are reading a novel about a romantic couple, you are driven to fall in love with both characters yourself, whether they are both female, male, or one of each.
This novel is different, though.
At the end of the book you just can’t help it.
You fall in love with them...
I admired Highsmith’s nerve and honesty for tackling this lesbian love story in the time period when it was so obviously taboo.Therese Belivet is a young and struggling set designer working in a department store when she meets and instantly becomes enamored with Carol Aird, a sophisticated and wealthy married woman.
It was enjoyable to read a novel where lesbian characters are so well-written with powerful descriptions of an intense new love that rings emotionally true.The film adaptation is called "Carol" and coming soon to my theatre.
The corner of her mouth went up in a smile.‘But the end was a fiasco.’‘Yes. I mean I’d go through the end, too.’‘And you’re still going through it.’Therese didn’t say anything.Patricia Highsmith got the idea for Carol (or The Price of Salt as it was named originally) shortly after her first novel, Strangers on a Train was published.
Yes, this was another one of those books where I had to stay up all night to finish it, even though the two protagonists were difficult to like at times.Therese is in her early twenties (I think), stuck in a dead-end sales job, has aspirations of becoming a stage designer, and generally seems to lack empathy for any of the people around her.
I've tried and tried and tried to understand why people like these two characters and their story so much.
I don't understand the swooning over Carol when, to me, she's written so nebulously that it's almost as if she isn't even present in the novel, let alone present in the relationship with Therese.
I remember being insulted when I heard people felt the on the road/camping portion of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows dragged for them.
The road trip portion of this book was painfully slow to get through.
The movie is so much better than the book, in my opinion, though the characterization problems are still present.
All joking aside, this is a well-plotted and engaging romantic story, which works on multiple themes. There is the 'coming out' narrative mixed with travel, the 'love under pressure' theme, and the suspense and fear of being compromised. Highsmith is an uncanny writer when it comes to describing human behavior - in personal tics or conversation or gesture. Sixty years after, this genre needs more happy endings. This is a story that lives and breathes.
That last chapter, oh my god.Never mind the notion of Patricia Highsmith as an "unloving and unlovable woman"-- she clearly understood the painful delicate aches of love and loving and, having lost, the bittersweet triumph in growing up.
The Price of Salt carries an emotional honesty that is exquisite and devastating.Highsmith's prose is simple but she realizes even the smallest moments with a keen observance.
or again.The romance being between two women should really hold no bearing of anyone's enjoyment of this book, but having read the afterword and knowing the climate during the time of publication makes the story seem especially courageous.
And pulp fiction was the only place you could find stories about lesbian lovers.When I puzzled over the title, The Price of Salt, what first occurred to me was a quote from the book of Matthew in the New Testament:… if the salt should lose its savour, wherewith shall it be salted?I later learned from a biography of Patricia Highsmith that that is indeed where the title came from.
How was it possible to be afraid and in love, Therese thought.
Therese Belivet is a lonely young women in a relationship with a man she does not love.
After being made aware of a letter found at Carol's house, written by Therese declaring her love for Carol, Harge threatens to stop her seeing their young daughter indefinitely unless she ends the relationship and comes back home to New York.
Both Therese and Carol are also boldly unconventional and the story is so much better for it.
But I remember the last time I watched an f/f movie or Tv adaptation before I read the book (Fingersmith)--the glances, the blank stares and the very understated British performances left me cold--it was only after I read the book that I realized what the characters were supposed to be feeling at various points in the story.
The best scenes are of course, every time Carol and Therese interact.
:) The rest of the book chronicles Therese's life away from Carol--her claustrophobic existence pre-Carol, her attempts to understand her sexuality (in 1950s style), and post-Carol development as she grows from eager-to-please, compliant admirer and finally comes into her own as Carol's equal.
From the marketing of this title I could not tell if it was more of a love story or a thriller, and knowing Patricia Highsmith I held my breath through the entire book waiting for someone to turn into a sociopath.
In the 1950s there were several lesbian pulp romance novels, but the accepted mode was that because of their "unacceptable" choices, someone had to end up with something tragic happening as "punishment." The original cover includes the tagline "the novel of a love society forbids," which would make you think the focus of the story is the two women against the world.
It's a coming of age story, a story about relationships and consequences, a story about a road trip, an eye opening and fairly frightening account of how lesbians were treated as recently as 60 years ago, but most of all it's a really great love story, about first love, the most difficult of all.
I've read that Patricia Highsmith has been a particularly unpleasant person, particularly during her later years, which makes it so interesting how well and sympathetically she is able to describe the inner turmoils and thoughts and actions of her characters.
Of course, I am now interested in reading her other works, though I am not even a mystery fan, just to experience more of that amazing writing.I can't recommend this book enough.
Δεν μου άρεσε όσο περίμενα, παρόλα αυτά για την εποχή που κυκλοφόρησε ήταν αρκετά πρωτότυπο.
Λόγω του θέματος της ιστορίας και της εποχής που γράφτηκε,η Πατρίσια Χάισμιθ (η ίδια είχε αρκετές σχέσεις με άλλες γυναίκες),δημοσίευσε αυτό το μυθιστόρημα με το ψευδώνυμο Κλερ Μόργκαν και με τον τίτλο The price of salt ένας τίτλος που κάλυπτε το προκλητικό,για την εποχή,θέμα του,τον έρωτα δύο γυναικών.Αυτή η επιλογή δείχνει πόσο μεγάλο ρίσκο ήταν να γράψει μια τέτοια ιστορία.Μπορώ μόνο να φανταστώ τι αντιδράσεις προκάλεσε τη δεκαετία του 1950.Η αλήθεια είναι ότι το διάβασα πιο πολύ για να δω μετά την ταινία,γιατί οι πρωταγωνίστριες είναι δυο αγαπημένες γυναίκες ηθοποιοί,η Κέιτ Μπλάνσετ και η Ρούνι Μάρα.Ανυπομονώ να δω την ταινία.
Honestly this will probably end up being one of my favorites of the year and of ever.
Maybe I actually screwed myself over because I can only see my reading going downhill from here, honestly.
I'm going to leave short blurbs here and then link to my full review on my blog (once it's up and running).
So my full review of Carol (which has already been written) will appear on my blog once my blog is an actual thing.
All I'll say now is that this is probably one of my favorite book ever and I'm emotional and don't even know what to do with myself.
It is part love story, part road novel, and I thoroughly enjoyed the reading experience.It follows Therese, a young girl working in a department store during the Christmas rush, who one day is enamoured by a customer who comes into her department.
I was really impressed by Highsmith's writing - there were many beautiful turns of phrase, and I felt like she portrayed a blossoming friendship and love in very believable terms.
The road trip aspects of this book were unexpected, as I didn't know much about the book going into it, and felt like I was watching a movie in my head.I am looking forward to watching the movie version, and seeing how it compares to the reading experience.
I have read a lot of early queer pulp and normally I love them for their honesty and the raw emotion they present.
There was none of the soul searching and the camaraderie that is found in other lesbian pulps.
I almost felt like someone had described being in a queer relationship to Patricia and she decided to write about that based on her fantasies rather than personal experience.
I think the biggest problem I had with this was that Carol and Therese was totally boring.
It made you wonder why they bothered to leave New York in the first place.There are so many better old lesbian novels out there.
Once again I feel classic means no spirit, no passion, just a bunch of words to help the reader feel the pain of the author, or characters.
Ok, I didn't finish but I felt 50% of the book was more than enough time for me to care about something.First, I don't believe in the main character who calls herself a New Yorker yet says very little.
Why does the silent NYer spend any time with this brute?Salt is rubbed into the readers eyes as they try to read this and feel any identification with the author.Sorry.
I will go read one of them.
I liked this book. I didn't find any of the characters particularly likeable, but they were relatable.
It is the opposite of this (which in my understanding is the standard of LGBT romance genre): It's more a novel about people growing up, learning to love, and choosing to live their life on their terms.
Therese views it as Carol choosing her over Rindy.
In my mind Carol was not choosing Therese over Rindy, she was freeing herself literally from Harge and metaphorically from the burdens that society would impose upon her.One thing that I loved about the novel is that neither character seemed burdened by traditional conventions or perceptions of the time period or even by current standards.
On learning about Carol's new love-interest, her ex-husband sets a private investigator on their trail to follow Carol so that he can use her "homo-sexuality" reason to win the battle over the custodian of their daughter.I read this book when I was 18 and then I lost touch with the story, then a year ago, I once again re-read this intriguing novel and it certainly made me feel like reading for the very first time, instilling my heart with new passion, and my eyes with new tears.
Reading Highsmith is like a drink of ice cold water - cleansing, refreshing, and invigorating.
Both books are steeped in intoxicating, overwhelming desire, with characters who act on this desire despite societal taboos.By today's standards, the lesbian love story isn't all that shocking.
Some parts felt a little long, which is why this isn't a 5, but it's pretty darn close.PS There's a great scene I must mention that involves Therese struggling to fly a kite with her boyfriend who she is not attracted to, that English majors would love to dissect as a failing phallus - this was fascinating and entertaining.
If I hadn’t read this book, no one could convince me that Patricia Highsmith wrote it. It is so out of her theme. It is placed back in the 1950’s, and is telling the story of 2 women falling in love with each other. The writing is smooth and simple, mostly revealing the romantic side of this relationship and how these women and the community in general are dealing with it.
She knows her heart and she recognizes in Carol all that has been missing from her life.Carol is worldly and not easy to like.
Therese's world without Carol is a cold and grey place.There were moments, especially in the first half of the novel when you feel like you are watching a rather dry play put on by some local actors.
Much like the Wizard of Oz, Therese and her life are transformed when she recognizes and accepts who she is and who she loves.
She captures that incredible rush one feels when you fall in love for the first time.
"How was it possible to be afraid in love, Therese thought.
so, i read a review of Terry Castle's new book "The Professor" in last Sunday's NYT, and, intrigued, googled her to find out more about her.
Many years ago, Castle wrote a book about Les Lit. I mean, this woman has read everything in that (typically horrible and wrist-slashingly painful) genre.
Highsmith originally wrote this under a pen name, and as the main character is an alcoholic (like Highsmith)and closeted (also like Highsmith), i can't help wondering if this book is more truth than fiction.
******I just re-read this for the first time...it's even better than I remembered.
She never questions if it is okay to be in love with a woman.
Yet, the ultimately optimistic picture it does paint of a lesbian relationship (view spoiler)[that does not end in suicide or in one of them suddenly realizing they were straight after all, like most lesbian fiction did back then (hide spoiler)] is truly revolutionary and must've been (at least according to the foreword that mentions the crazy amount of fan mail Highsmith got for this) very reassuring for lesbian readers at that time.
Of course then I could easily picture Blanchett in the role of Carol, a divorcing woman with a child who strikes up a friendship with a young NYC department store clerk, Therese.
It becomes more than a friendship as Therese is rather obsessed with Carol, and Carol eventually returns the attention, although on a much different level.
But anything this author has a hand in seems to turn to gold, and then with Blanchett to boot, it should be awesome.
Và trong một ngày bình thường như bao ngày khác của mùa vọng Giáng sinh, khi dân tình nườm nượp đổ về siêu thị để mua những món quà Noel cho gia đình và bạn bè, Therese đã bắt gặp đôi mắt xám của một người phụ nữ - một khoảnh khắc ngắn ngủi nhưng có sức ảnh hưởng lớn lao, như thể tiếng sét ái tình đã đánh trúng cô gái trẻ thơ ngây lần đầu tiên biết đến tình yêu vậy.Đôi mắt đó thuộc về Carol, người thiếu phụ chừng ba mươi tuổi, chuẩn bị ly dị chồng, có một cô con gái, và đúng khoảnh khắc đó, đã chọn gian hàng nơi Therese phụ trách để mua đồ.
