https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/254661.The_Holy_Book_of_Women_s_Mysteries
It all comes down to "we have to stop this chauvinistic, male-centered, women-oppressing world-spread society!" And what mysterious and magic solution is there?
When will the world stop preaching differences and teaching that one thing is better than the other?
Neither men nor women are the better half of the world, our society should be neither matriarchal nor patriarchal: we are supposed to live together in peace and harmony as people and that is what Witchcraft, as any Nature-centered religion/philosophy/way of living, should be teaching.
A book that might be too female chauvinistic for some, it may be a good book for others who are looking for inspiration and empowerment in a world devoted to the dis-empowerment and subjection of women under man's ownership.
(No, those words are Not too harsh.) For me, I thought the book was good enough to not only buy my own copy, but to trade even this copy in for a hardcover....something I only do for, what I consider, are the best of books.(Yes, there's actually a hardcover out there that's not in German.
You just have to stumble across it.)I seriously recommend many of Budapest's books anyway, along with books written by Miriam Starhawk.
I appreciate that she offers up a feminist perspective of religion; but because she lacks references and has a clear agenda of debunking Christianity, the books fails to remain ingenuous.
I just met Z. what a woman of honor she is and I high recommend this book!
Great primer for female empowerment but is too unbalanced in its premise re: male/female.
While it's true that everything begins as a mother-force, and father is not always necessary (i.e. parthenogenesis) demoting the god in us is limiting.
The Good Great Mother of us all is both.
We need the river (She) and the riverbed (He) in order to be effective in all realms.Still, for women who have suffered greatly under patriarchal limitations, a visit into all-woman time would not be remiss to build a solid, unshakable base.While the writing isn't the greatest, if you want a clear look into witchcraft as a path, it's a great start and a staple for your library.
This book is a classic in the category of women's spirituality.
When reading, one needs to keep in mind when it was written.
The women's movement had not yet combined in any way with spirituality and Z clearly was a path maker in helping women combine female centered spirituality with the feminist movement.
This book has been criticized for being militant and sexist in its point of view and in all honesty, it is, but those were times when things needed to be pushed.
In His image just wasn't working for many of us, so yes, it had to push buttons, wake women up and give them some basic material to begin working with.
Z Budapest's mother Mazika Szilazgy was a brilliant artist.
I was deeply impressed by her work, and I'd love to see it in situ in Budapest.I have now told you the best thing about this book.
The photographs of Z's mother's art.Z drank the Margaret Murray kool-aid a little too deeply.
Okay, a lot too deeply.
She doesn't have any grasp of history and yet builds her religion upon it.I still want to know how Alexander the Great (who Z calls "the Pig") managed to burn down the library at Alexandria when it wasn't built yet.
Zsuzsanna comes from a heritage that not only respects women, but is composed of women celebrating the rites of passage at every stage of life. It's about women supporting women. She has opened many roads to the idea of a very organic way of life. Love her books, love her philosophy. This book is spiritual, but not religious, if you understand the difference, which is what attracted me
I'm only giving this one for the sake of at least giving it a rating. Really disappointed. It took me a really long time to actually get hold of and as a Pagan I was really looking forward to it. I couldn't even finish it. This woman can't tell the difference between feminism and sexism and she's meant to be a feminist priestess and teacher? I pity for future Pagan generations. Bad.
The book is cool because she basically created Dianic witchcraft (Goddess worship only) but I always found it a bit dry. Its also very 2nd wave feminist and at this point her politics are, in my opinion, outdated. Its a good reference book, and is worth keeping around for its historical value.
Do you think God will strike me down with a bolt of lightening for reading this? Something tells me that even though it is totally Pagan, that learning about it is not such a bad thing.
Thanks Carrie! This book changed everything, my attitude towards the cosmos, myself,and all women. Zsusanna Budapest is the real deal :)
Amazing book- incredibly grateful for this author. Her writing expressed her palpable emotional generosity in her approach to sharing the spotlight with her sisters. As a millenial, this level of demonstrable emotional intelligence is rare in the generations that came before us and it speaks volumes to me that she stands out so much from the usual cognitive dissonance of the times.
A great reference book for Dianic and other pagans (although I would buy a copy as a reference manual, rather than get it out at the library and have to take back!)
Budapest's older stuff is better than any of her new stuff.
I liked some parts of this book, especially the prophecy and spellcraft section.
I also liked the section on healthy eating, and the tiny bits of astrological lore.
This book is more useful for someone who wants ideas to celebrate festivals with their coven, especially if they have Dianic leanings.
See, I don't like modern Christianity, and I crave a religion or philosophy where women are not weak.
But in this entire book, Z basically makes huge general assumptions about Christianity, Judaism and even Hinduism- painting them as these awful religions that hate women.
Yet, she uses their Goddesses and writes praise to them...
I don't agree with everything she and the coven believe, such as the exclusion of transgender women--most trans women I've known are better women than gender-born women and are purer spirits than many women I've met, including the Susan B.
Anthony Coven because they appreciate being female where gender-born women just submit and resign themselves to their existences.
Trans women fully embrace and appreciate the feminine role and power.If you're a woman who is grasping for your true identity and power as a female then this book is definitely an eye-opener--and I should know because I originally apprenticed under Sybil Leek between the age of 12 years-old and now I'm 60.
Keep in mind that she's from another generation of witches who had to fight against the establishment so to speak during the time of women's liberation and social change.
She's from that era of women warriors who trail blazed a path for the rest of us, generations who weren't event born at the time.
Budapest made incredibly significant contributions to the Pagan community during a time, when many 'newbie' witches hadn't even been born yet, so if you are ignorant of the struggles faced by women back in the day, especially pagan women, don't be so quick to write Budapest off as a militant feminist.
It popped into my head.I couldn't remember the title, so I did a Google search (no, not while I was driving) on "feminist witch book," and this title was the first entry that popped up.I got this book while I was dabbling in witchcraft and paganism.
Maybe at the witchy little feminst/lesbian/pagen/S&M/herbal bookstore that was in the French Quarter in the mid 90s.I never cast any spell.
I was going to to cast a spell once, to get my boyfriend back after he dumped me.
I started wearing patchouli oil because I bought a tiny vial to use in the spell I never cast.
It is a well written book on the ideas and philosophies of the feminist side.
Honestly, I don't know where I stand on the subject, but with that said I really did like this book for the points and theories on the Goddess and the new patriarchal society we live in.
For example, Alexander the Great (who she refers to as "the pig") died before the Library of Alexandria was built -therefore he couldn't be the one to burn it down (Some historians believed it was Caesar).
The rituals in this book are coven based but they seemed to be easily convertible to individual use.Overall I think this would be the perfect book for a witchy bookclub!
I think this book is just wonderful. Being a Witch, a Feminist and a lover of Feminist Witchcraft this book, for me, is simply amazing. It helps us understand the story behind Feminist Witchcraft, it has rituals and tips and stories and many more things that inspire us women to turn to ourselves and heal. To work with other women and to discover ourselves.I specially loved the passage rituals, I think the passages in a women's life should be important and this book helps A LOT!
My instinctive beliefs that I possess intrinsic energy and influence were supported as I learned about the craft. At different life stages I’ve referenced individual chapters for more support or just to engage in alternative notions. Currently I am not a devoted practitioner but I believe more than I doubt.
A solid book, given to young wicca / practitioners to learn from and appreciate the path forged by these courageous women and men gone before us. A first generation book for people more advanced or the next step up to understand the authors of our books.
If I'd read this book 20 years ago, it would have been the be-all and end-all; as it is, knowing what I do, and having established my practice, it wasn't much help to me. I do definitely recommend it to anyone beginning the Goddess path.
I love this book. While many people may not agree with many of the concepts that she provides, others will find it spiritualy refreshing,as this book really helped me to understand the importance and influence of religion and ritual that surrounds the Goddess and the women who follow her call.
this was my essential wiccan guide for years.
Just a bit too militant feminist for my taste.
love it
A solid book with good energy. I have respect for Budapest, she is one of the elders of our community. An excellent feminist work.
I love a mystery
