https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1463757.The_Little_Wooden_Doll
A magical book from my childhood that my grandma picked up for me at a used booksale....she got some charming gems for me back then that I still treasure.
This delightful little book was a gift to my young daughter from her grandmother in 1975. I saved it hoping for a granddaughter some day. That didn't happen so I will give it to another little girl to enjoy. I read it today with bittersweet memories. My daughter Wendy died in 1991.
THE HEART OF A DOLLThis author reveals a special affinity for the unspoken needs and desires of toys, considering the subtle distinctions about what makes them Real.
In this very short book, charmingly illustrated by the author's daughter, we meet an old-fashioned wooden doll who has been forgotten for decades in the attic--with only mice and spiders for company.
Her dream of course is to be reunited with a little girl who will love her.
Are children really so heartless?
A quaint delight for children of all ages--the third books dedicated to the needs of toys by Margery Williams (Bianco).
This was one of my all time favorites as a little girl on the early 1970s. My edition of the book is much older, copyright 1925 and 4th edition on 1965. Helped instill a love of dolls on my heart that exists to this very day (2014)
Sweet and adorable story about a lonely doll abandoned in the attic who finally finds a new child to love her.
I adored this book as a child. I can still remember the plain red cover and Coolest of Cool, it came with an actual little wooden doll. I can't help but think of my grandmother and her good taste in books when I remember this gift.
Probably my favorite childhood book. Worth a read if you are an adult, too. A good gift for young girly girls.
I have read it a bunch of times i just love it ! if you did not read it yet READ IT !!!!!!!
This is a childhood favorite. I read it over and over again and it was amazing everytime.
This book is a great book for little girls it tells the story of a doll with a big heart and good friends.
i loved this book and i will never forget this memerable book.
was destroyed in a flood need to replace
A sweet story from childhood about love and patience, kindness and magic.
