https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56396.Let_Me_be_a_Woman
One thing that that really caught my attention was when Elisabeth Elliot said that "femininity has its limitations." That's so true, but she also wrote that "masculinity has its limitations too." It's a beautiful thing when women embrace whom God created them to be and likewise for men.
We both have roles that only we can do.She wrote the following regarding this:"God created male and female, the male to call forth, to lead, initiate, and rule, and the female to respond, follow, adapt, submit.""It is a naive sort of feminism that insists that women prove their ability to do all the things that men do.
Like I noted, I only read this book at the insistence of my girlfriend but examples abound of lessons that both genders can learn about love, marriage, sacrifice, etc.
Not only did I get to witness a biblical femininity that is praised by women whom I am close to, but I also was encouraged and exhorted toward a higher masculinity.
I'll be encouraging the many men in my life whose wives love EE to read this book so that they can see that the flipside of a biblical femininity is a biblical masculinity and the two are only so good as when they are reflecting each other in their distinctions.
This book is what fueled my conversion to feminism.
As this year I am spending a lot of time reading about Biblical Womanhood, this was high on my list.One of the things I loved about this book is that it was from a mother’s heart to her daughter.
So many books on womanhood for Christian women (I am finding) almost sound as if they are apologizing for the politically incorrect way God wants women to live.
Elisabeth Elliot does not apologize; she shows what a wonderful thing is.This book really got me to thinking in such a good way.
fantastic book.i am so glad and honored to have it read at this young age of 17.
it's very inspiring for us who desire to live the way our Creator would be pleased.Elisabeth Elliot, along with other Christian writers Eric & Leslie Ludy, and Joshua Harris, is my favorite.
Elliot has enlightened me in a unique way.
and then as i read through the pages, i discern her style, i grasp her heart intertwined in every page, her words spoken from a gentle heart of a mother who submitted her age to our Creator.it's wonderful, moving, sometimes i caught myself in tears of joy and awe.

How did I go so many years without reading Elisabeth Elliot? This book was pure grace and goodness, entering my life at the moment that I, without even knowing, was the most thirsty for it. Mrs. Elliot's winsome, lovely, godly advice reminded me so much of Nancy Wilson's (such as in "Why Isn't a Pretty Girl Like You Married?"), I occasionally had to check the front cover to make sure I hadn't grabbed the wrong book. Both women have been blessings indeed. Many thanks to my big sister who gifted me with this at the perfect time.
When my mom was reading 'Let me be a Woman' she said she wanted to underline the whole book (it was so good) I told her that defeated the purpose of underlining, but when I read it I felt the exact same way she did! It was amazing!
I am so grateful for this book in the strangest way possible, for without it I would never have begun to confront the strangle-hold sexism had in my life.
I would never have struggled against the inevitable fate of becoming a good Christian woman, and later, a good Christian wife had I not found this collection, written by an esteemed, and "powerful" member of the female Christian population.
I found it in me.I always meant to go back and finish Let Me Be a Woman, but tonight as I was flipping through and realized it had served its purpose long ago.
Fairly narrow in scope as Elliot wrote this collection as a set of letters to her daughter when the latter was getting married.
Certain parts definitely feel dated (Elliot's citing of a statistic that 90% of women marry before 21, for example, as well as her tendency to set up "feminism" as a monolithic entity.
Her dismissal of the movement as a whole was, I thought, the weakest part of the book and the least portable.]), but others are remarkably fresh and practical.
I thought her nod toward vocation was particularly good (that marriage/motherhood is A calling, not the ONLY one for women).
Everyone has a right to their opinion, but this attempt to tear down feminism and encourage women to be subservient...aside from being offensive was entirely filled with contradictions, failed to properly support the belief and in fact in the end unintentionally strengthened feminism.
She says women are better off subservient, but she proceeds to list "exceptions" to traditional families that worked and expressed how much she enjoyed traveling with a very free spirit.
Though it was written to her daughter, it came out like a letter to herself to convince herself that it's what women need to be all whilst doubting herself.
Do it heartily, with faith, prayer, and thanksgiving." (p.106)Talking about household authority she says, "I had to remember that lines had been drawn -not by my husband, but by God. I was the one originally created to help, not an antagonist." (p.123)"No woman who has not learned to master herself can be trusted to submit willingly to her husband." (p.143)"[T]he roles were not assigned on the basis of capability.
Christ, who is the Head of all of us, stands ready to help any man or woman who asks Him." (p.144)"It is a misguided kind of super-spirituality that attempts to erase all distinctions between Christians.
Elliot's writing is lovely. Occasionally her arguments are simplistic, but although I personally struggle to accept the "traditional, conservative" Christian understanding of gender roles, I nevertheless find Elliot to be full of wisdom and truth. She may rub my feminist tendencies the wrong way, but she provides such a worthy text for wrestling with.
Creepy.
This book is a delightful feast of wise and loving counsel. Full review coming soon. Thanks to Joy for giving me the opportunity to read this! :) <3
In every stage of life, we must earnestly seek God and be led by Him to invest our time and energies in the things that He has given us to do, keeping in mind His overarching design and role for women.
"In order to learn what it means to be a woman, we must start with the One who made her.""Every creature of God is given something that could be called an inconvenience, I suppose, depending on one's perspective.
And as the bird easily comes to terms with the necessity of bearing wings when it finds that it is, in fact, the wings that bear the bird -- up, away from the world, into the sky, into freedom -- so the woman who accepts the limitations of womanhood finds in those very limitations her gifts, her special calling -- wings, in fact, which bear her up into perfect freedom, into the will of God.
This classic title on biblical womanhood holds a treasured place on my shelf, and its dog-eared pages are proof it has spent time off my shelf, as well.
I highly recommend it to all women wanting to enter into a conversation with one of the spiritual giants of our age.
Covering such broad topics as feminism and marriage, this book will be relevant to all Christian women, but I think it holds a special place in my heart now that I am a new wife.
The witty, personal tone encourages me and makes me to want to lean in all the more to hear what Elisabeth would teach me.
Let Me Be A Woman is a little book with big impact! After having read Passion and Purity by Elisabeth Elliot (which was excellent), I was looking forward to reading this book. Set up in similar style, with short, easy-to-read chapters, Let Me Be A Woman discuses what it means to be a Christian woman, plus thoughts about marriage and similar topics that would benefit women of any age, married or unmarried.Definitely an impacting and inspiring book!
This is one of my favorite books of all time. All Christian women need to read this.
While I personally may not have been quite at the point to where I could fully appreciate some of the advice and topics in this book (not having marriage in my near future- too young), it had a whole lot of wisdom! I also really liked the style of Elisabeth Elliot writing notes to her daughter. :) It was very readable, and the profound truths were given very honestly, boldly, and humbly.
side note: I brought this along for 'light reading' on the train commute to and from work, and had a divine encounter tonight, when the lady beside me looked over my shoulder and saw the chapter I was reading: "A Paradoxical Principle".
Couldn't give her a proper answer, but encouraged her to read the book for herself and wished her a good evening as she scrambled off the train at Paya Lebar.
Elliot offers words of wisdom on the meaning of womanhood and shares that in order to learn who we are as women, we must start with the One Who made us.She unabashedly discusses marriage and singleness, submission to authority and the inherent differences between masculinity and femininity.
Ephesians 5:24 says, "Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit to their husbands in everything."This book has changed my perspective on femininity.
Over and over, she makes the point, as outlined by Paul in Ephesians 5, that marriage parallels the love of Christ for the church.
It came to me to start reading it at the right time really, almost providentially I think, especially because in my tentative study of literature and culture I find so much feminism and crude defiance of the traditional, God-ordained callings of men and woman in life, marriage and the home, and this book was truly a refreshing draft of water, an uplifting and challenging reminder of the goodness and glorious beauty of God's perfect Design.
It is however, heavy reading if you take to heart.Elisabeth explores what God's purpose for making us uniquely female is, whether married or single.
She talks about honoring marriage and parenthood as vocations, yet doesn't belittle women who have additional vocations, since she herself was first a missionary, then a single mom and missionary, then a writer, wife, and mom, etc.
"The measure of self-giving is the measure of fulfilment." "don't baby your husband...But a wife must want to take care of her husband and minister to him as gladly as a mother ministers to her child".And not to be forgotten : ("Have we ever talked about the hilarity of sex?
Cape Cod, a godly woman, a precious mother-daughter relationship, AND a little Scottie named MacDuff.
I understand that this is because Elliot wrote these letters to her daughter in the days leading up to her marriage.
At first, I was thinking this would be a book I would get EVERYONE, but now I'm thinking it truly is best suited to read during the days of engagement.
Elliot is a woman whose writing I haven't read much of.
She wrote during the days when womanhood was being attacked and left for dead.
I went into it all like "I'm a feminist, hear me roar!" and then was surprised by how much I actually didn't hate it after all.
There was still a lot of talk of submission and housewife duties that I was like OH HECK NO to, but I expected way more of that than I got.
All in all, I'm glad I read this one and gave it a fair chance, and I was pleasantly surprised by what I found here.
Curious to hear other thoughts about this one-- drop a comment below if this is one you've read!
I'd like to try to read this book every year.
Unquestionably helpful and rewarding for women who want to know more of the fullness of joy God intends for women.
It's saturated with Scripture, spoken from a mother's heart, and possesses the tried and true wisdom of a widow and missionary who is convinced of God's sovereignty and loving Lordship over her entire being.
If you are a woman and haven't read this book, I highly recommend it to you.
If you are a woman and it's been a while since you've read this book, I highly recommend you pick it up again!
This book was excellent. I really enjoyed the writing style (letters to her daughter before she was to get married). The chapters were short and to the point. She really captured the true beauty of womanhood. I recommend this book to women both married and single. And call me crazy, but I think married men should read it as well (at least skim it). Elisabeth tells the real truth about being a woman and being a wife. Great book!
A good read for any woman thinking about marriage. Elisabeth Elliot gives a very down-to-earth view on masculinity/femininity and what makes a marriage work. The only part that annoyed me was her repeated references to her opposition toward the feminist movement (I agree with her views, but I think she over-does it).
