https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18154.The_Cuckoo_s_Egg
Loved the references to Berkeley, the hacker chase, but most interestingly, it takes you back to an earlier time in computing (in 1989)- which I thought was a fascinating reminder of what things were like.
It was amazing how lax computer security was before this - and how it took an incident like this to awaken these agencies to the threat of cyber espionage.Only reason it gets 4 instead of 5 starts is that while the beginning and end are very interesting, about mid-book it starts to get pretty repetitive.
(view spoiler)[Beginning is fascinating as to how he identifies and starts to track the hacker.
I think as I've gotten older and wiser and more discerning, and as technology has progressed, this book hasn't aged well.Here's the synop: Cliff Stoll is an astrophysicist who knows just a little something about computers (obviously a lot).
Now all he needs to do is catch him...When I read this at 12 going on 13, this book seemed like a bleeding edge thrill-a-minute technological game of cat and cuckoo.
Or simply Cliff the research paper.Here's the personal shit I don't like: Cliff's a hippie cliche who hates the government, wears tie-dye, likes the Dead, and lives and works in Berkeley.
Super fun book - the story of a sysadmin chasing a hacker during the early internet, but it reads almost like a thriller - fun and fast.
I think I learned more about the early internet from this book than anything I've ever read before.
And apparently, with very poor security!
Impressive how easy it was for the hacker to get root access back then.Internet security has come a long ways since those days (and has a very long way to go) - but you can really get a sense of how it started and where it's going by reading this.
Great book. The FBI was incredibly frustrating to read about. Not many people would have been persistent enough to stick with this. I'm impressed with how diligently the author worked to track this guy down.One small gripe though - the author seemed way too self conscious about his political identity add a result of cooperating with the guys in suits. Was he trying to spin it as an internal struggle between who he was, and who this experience made him become? Not buying it, Cliff.
(may need to be a little computer-geeky to really love it)Crazy cool true story about an astronomer-turned-sysadmin at Berkeley in the 1980s who decides to track down a 75 cent accounting discrepancy in server usage, and turns into a year-long hunt to track down a sneaky computer spy operating for the KGB.
Covers several severe holes in Unix security, but emphasizes that the weakest link in security is almost always from human operators.Very engaging read, tore right through it.
It almost reads like a mystery, detective or spy novel, but it's so much more exciting because it's all true.
Strongly recommended and really wish I could read it again for the first time.
Interesting book, especially since I worked at MITRE at the time, and had first-hand knowledge of the method the hacker used to go through the systems. Also met him at a security conference -- he gave a nice presentation.
Tampoco es un libro de texto pero enseña muchas cosas acerca de la seguridad en cómputo, quizás la más importante es que si bien no existen —y quizás no puedan existir— sistemas de cómputo seguros en 100 por ciento, en muchos casos el principal responsable de la falta de seguridad en una máquina es su administrador.Muchas veces, quien se dedica a ingresar de manera subrepticia en computadoras a las que no tiene permitido el acceso puede hacerlo si conoce magistralmente las fortalezas y debilidades del software que se utiliza para adminsitrar la máquina, quien quiera evitárselo deberá hacerlo también usando el mismo software.
Executive Summary: A truly excellent and fascinating tale of hacking in the early days of the internet. Full Review I'm fascinated with computer crime. I have for as long as I can remember being interested in computers. Somehow I had never managed to read this book. I'm glad I finally got around to it. It might be my new favorite. Cliff Stoll tells an engaging and personal story of his discovery of computer networks, security exploits and computer crime that reads more like a spy novel than a te
Cliff Stoll tells an engaging and personal story of his discovery of computer networks, security exploits and computer crime that reads more like a spy novel than a technical manual.I think Mr. Stoll does a good job of making things easy to understand for the non-technical person.
Excellent book about hackers and computer security told in a way that you do NOT have to be a geek to understand.
Amazing that so much has changed since the early 80's in terms of technology, yet the tactics for both hackers and security are fundamentally unchanged.This book is told as a humorous narrative of Cliff's life helping track down a computer hacker.
Being an astronomer working at Berkley, and being a self-described "left wing nut", he ends up brushing shoulders with the FBI, CIA, NSA, and other "three-letter agencies" on a common mission to track down and lock out a hacker.
I debated between 4 and 5 stars.
For this reason, I'm leaving it at 5 stars.
Therefore it was more likely that the intruder was from the US East Coast, or from abroad.(Another fun thing about the age of this book - it's clearly written for the layman in 1989, so things that are completely basic today are explained in long terms - "electronic mail", for example)It becomes a fun cat and mouse game - it's always the same intruder (who turned out to be (view spoiler)[urmel/Markus Hess from Germany (hide spoiler)]), Stoll tried to get the US government involved, but no agency wanted to have anything to do with it - neither the FBI, nor the CIA, nor the NSA had anything to do with computer break-ins, there were no laws yet, nothing (the events in this book happen around 1986-87, I was just a few months old).It's great fun to read how each step in the plan worked out, how Stoll laid traps, each step in his thinking is detailed (the joys of writing everything down!).You'll especially love this if you (like me) grew up fascinated with German "hacker culture" of the late 80s, early 90s, back when the Chaos Computer Club started to become a name.
The first "infosec true crime" book I ever read, and thus possibly a major influence on my life's work to this point (although surely not so much as WarGames).
It's not as good as Sterling's  The Hacker Crackdown, but better than most anything else along these lines.
Worth reading for its insights into the early period of academic/industrial internetworking and the fact that it's referenced everywhere.
Rather than closing the hole the hacker was using to get in, however, Stoll decided he wanted to catch the guy, and that’s where the real story begins, because tracking a communications link backwards is not very easy.
It’s a fascinating how old everything seems even though the book’s events happened only a little more than twenty years ago.In closing, here’s a number sequence puzzle that a three-letter-agency spook gave Cliff in the book that–at the time of the book’s publishing–Cliff hadn’t figured out yet.
Engaging chase story in the world of 80s computer networks. He's definitely not a real writer but Stoll does a good job presenting himself as a likable everyman. Lots of Bay Area references. Would've been five stars but the conclusion was a bit anti-climactic after months of methodical build.
Cliff is an excellent storyteller and has done a great job sharing this true story.
Perhaps too good of a job.
Although it's consistently well-written, it is frustratingly slow at times.
I don't hold that against him because it happens to be appropriate for conveying a hint of what he felt as he went through this.
Like him, I kept feeling like there was a breakthrough or resolution just around the corner, only to find myself strung along to a longer road ahead.As someone who's been through more than a fair share of dealing with hackers, spammers, buggy software, and poorly-designed hardware, I didn't need this story in book-length.
As well as a gripping techno-thriller, it's also a sweet romance, and includes a great chocolate-chip cookie recipe. Stoll never sets out to be a hero, he's just a problem-solving grad student, who becomes really dedicated to solving one particular problem.I wonder how dated it seems now?
Good old school hacker tale. If you are a techno geek and familiar with the likes of emacs, dot matrix printers and old school bbs boards, this is for you. Its also a really interesting breakdown of intrusion techniques, much of which holds true today.
The technology has changed, but the crime and the chase have remained the same.
The incredibly cat and mouse chase through what was then just the beginnings of the internet still kept me on the edge of my seat, remembering dial-up, dot matrix printers, and long distance phone bills.
In the end, “The Cuckoo’s Egg” is computer hacking at its beginning, and it serves to remind us of the benefits and detriments of a cyber-dependent society.
Today, internet crime is rampant on so many levels and it still takes skilled and observant people to combat it.Read and remember, and if you do not remember, read and learn.
I really enjoyed this book. The wild thing is that it's a true story, and that it's still relevant and really interesting 30+ years after it occurred. A definite mark of quality, in my eyes.Some things have changed a lot; six-letter, all lower-case passwords aren't considered safe anymore, and most people are familiar with the internet. However, it calms my occasional anxiety of the future that nerds basically are unchanged since at least the 80's.This is a definite recommendation for anyone even slightly interested in computer science.
For some years after its 1989 debut, The Cuckoo's Egg was the book to read about computer hacking (or, more specifically, counter-hacking).
But this superb read is much more than the memoir of an astronomer who followed a 75-cent accounting "error" to a Soviet spy and sudden fame as the world's top computer security expert.It's the story of a sincere Berkeley liberal who came to see conservative establishment types as fellow human beings, to the confusion of those closest to him.
This is one of the books that really defined my life.While in the astrophysics program at Berkalurk, young Clifford Stoll is asked to look into an extra couple cents being charged for their computer use.
What follows is the discovery of an East German (Cold War era mind you) hacker using Berkeley's computer network to enter private miliary networks.This is one of the most realistic novels on hacking you could find.
Forget the deck's of Gibson and the 3D, motorcycle racing or Stephenson, this is real hacking.
Writing scripts and watching as he enters commands over your network.
This is a compelling, enjoyable read about what is hacking, and how a systems engineer caught and shut down an espionage ring.
Told by the engineer himself, Cliff Stoll's story is full of technical details, but also a great deal of wit, and not a little sarcasm.
A seventy-five cent discrepancy alerted him that someone was poking about where he shouldn't be, and task of tracking down who it was led him to the Air Force, the Army, the NSA and the FBI, among other entities.
For anyone who remembers the early days of the Internet and when computers filled a room, this is a great read.
Cliff Stoll is an astronomer at Berkley who has been assigned to the IT department.
His first assignment is to reconcile a 75 cent variance in their billing records.
fifty pages into the book, I assumed that the 75 cent mystery would be solved in quick order and the rest of the book would be about other tales of hackery in and amongst the interwebbs.
This 300+ page book is about this single encounter with a hacker and boy!
what a page turner.
I found myself engrossed in the details of Stoll's efforts to learn who was doing the snooping and why.Great book!
Overall it was a great book. It had every element I wanted. It was non-fiction about computers and hacking that was written like fiction. Perfect! The book is an excellent read for anyone interested in a good detective story or has any interests in computers. My only complaint would be that the book gets a bit repetitive and monotonous in the middle. But this is to be expected, as that's likely how any real investigation goes. Would definitely recommend. I can't believe I hadn't heard of this book until just a couple weeks ago.
I read this in 1998... My dad had given me a copy so I could understand better what he did for work. It was weird to read...I kept thinking of the gifts he had brought me from his business trips to San Francisco and New Mexico when i was a kid. Anyway, it's a good book. Not the most literary writing, but that doesn't really matter. It's a real-life thriller about one of the first major hacking cases of the Information Age. It's intense. I won't tell you whodunnit. You have to read it yourself.
Amazing read. Its so unbelievable that the security issues and hacking, have not changed much in the past 30 years. And so is the govt policies related to computer security and encryptions.
I adore the author. He has a great website --worth checking out. Love his passion!
How did I miss this? A thoroughly enjoyable read.
This is a computer history book about the Internet before web and before anyone really called it internet.
I mean I thought today is bad, but back in those days things were ridiculous.
Weird to see Unix before Linux took over the world, when people were dialing through telephone lines and copper wires, when fiber optics was a wild new thing coming in the next years to transatlantic cables perhaps, when rlogin and telnet was actually used, when computers had default passwords like system/manager and field/service - in military computers ffs.A weird mistake: you can crowd only so many satellites over Equador.
Written like a crime thriller, Stoll's memoir chronicles how he discovered and tracked one of the first hackers through MilNet. The 1988 technology (Tymnet, print-outs, beepers) will be nostalgic for some readers and amazing to others. Yes, later Millennials, this was the early internet with bulletin boards, 200 baum modems, and all. Read your technology and information security history. This chase through networks and tracing physical phone lines may astound you.
A thrilling nonfiction book that is very hard to put down. (full review in a few days)
