https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25663637-when-we-collided
This was just the book I needed right now. BRING ON ALL THE CONTEMPORARIES. I had to take a star off, because the relationship that takes place is totally instalove and I didn't enjoy the overall drama that came along with the relationship. Other than that I adored these characters and the journey they go on together in this book. Full video review coming soon!
4.5 stars Bursting with vivid characters, infectious humor, adorable romance, and bittersweet truth--as well as one of the best depictions of depression/mental illness I've ever read.Lovely, lovely book. It's Dessen but deeper and brighter, and painterly with words like Jandy Nelson, but sharper and more true. Full review on the blog, with some spoilery thoughts about the ending. http://www.themidnightgarden.net/2016...
I feel really conflicted about this one.When We Collided tries to be both an honest account of a girl with bipolar disorder AND a love story.
The author tries to create an interesting story for Jonah so he doesn't become another manic pixie dream boy, but his "voice" pales in comparison to Vivi's and it was hard to be drawn into his story.Maybe this seems a little harsh, and maybe it was the lack of narrative charisma in Jonah's chapters, but Jonah's family issues and money/business problems were just not that interesting.And then there's the romance founded on instalove:
Even the constellations can see us now: we are seventeen and shattered and still dancing. We have messy, throbbing hearts, and we are stronger than anyone could ever know. I think emery lord deserves the award for writing the most adorable characters in the history of the universe. I cannot get over how AMAZINGLY PERFECT this entire book is. I want to scream my head off right now because this is probably the fastest I've fallen in love with any characters ever. This is the most emotional, heart
The descriptions, thoughts, perspectives, and metaphors that constantly fly through Vivi’s mind are just so adorably accurate in an abstract way it make me want to close my eyes and take a moment because that much emotion is going to kill me.I love that Emery Lord wrote so realistically and didn’t try too hard to make everything seem different from the world we’re living in because the understanding that our world in itself has so many beautiful stories just waiting to be told is everything.
And it has TONS of things I love (aka there is so much food in this book, omg, I'm literally starving right now).
If you'd rather not know the diagnosis (I think it's officially labelled about 50% through the book?) THEN READ NO FURTHER.A List Of Things That Bothered Me:• First of all...Vivi and Jonah's relationship is absolutely rushed.
Like, this isn't condoned as RIGHT in the book, but I was just sooooo frustrated with how medication was handled.
(view spoiler)[ Like Vivi is telling Jonah's mum she she get medication for her depression, but yet Vivi's throwing out her bioplar medication!??
Reading this book was so unpleasant.
They started quasi-dating (i.e., she force-kisses him at random times - "of all the quirks about life with Vivi, her ready-or-not approach to kissing me is the most disorienting") pretty much immediately after she forces him to make dinner.
(Very different from the "summer that would rewrite their futures"/"new love"/"colli[sion] with the right person at just the right time" written about in the synopsis.)In short, reading this was almost as much of an entirely-negative burden as Jonah's relationship with Vivi.
There are times, in the middle of books, that you realize reading is supposed to be fun.
❝Even the constellations can see us now: we are seventeen and shattered and still dancing. We have messy, throbbing hearts, and we are stronger than anyone could ever know.❞ I remember being so excited for this novel even when I didn't know much about the author. I was just into Contemporary Romance novels and I wanted to read something similar to All the Bright Places because I loved that book so much. Even without knowing much about the author and how her writing is, I just wanted to own a co
Vivi never knew she would meet a guy like Jonah and would be able to make her happy, brighten her world, and show her that there is much to live to.Jonah Daniels is a teenage boy who takes care of his family because his mother is in a weak position and isn't able to do much.
He would try his best to talk to her and encourage her like her mother, but because (view spoiler)[Jonah didn't even know Vivi suffered from a bipolar disorder, (hide spoiler)] he wasn't able to understand her attitude and emotions and even actions taken.
I loved how this book dealt with mental illness and grief and I think it's SO important.
I feel like this book opened my eyes to new kinds of mental illness and what that can look like for some people and how different it is for others.
I learned SO MUCH from being inside her head, and that's why I loved reading about her, but I just didn't like her as a character as much as Jonah.
❤️The plot was GREAT the writing was BEAUTIFUL and overall i think this is just such an important story for understanding and comprehending mental illness.
English - EspañolVivi desperately wants to live her life to the fullest and to record her passage through life, but she has a disease that the treatment leaves her as lifeless, so she leaves the treatment.
He and his two older brothers have to take care of the house and their three little brothers.Vivi and Jonah are only seventeen and have to deal with things that are too big for their age.✨✨✨Vivi desea desesperadamente vivir su vida al máximo y dejar constancia de su paso por la vida, pero tiene una enfermedad que el tratamiento la deja como sin vida, así que lo deja.
Su madre está sin ganas de vivir y recluida en su habitación.
Probably the least romantic young adult contemporary ‘‘romance’’ novel I have read so far this year. Most of the time, I feel drunk on Vivi. Light-headed and wanting more, more, more. But then there are moments where being with her feels like a cruel hangover.   Please, do tell me more. You’re charming me to the core.I have read every book published by this author. Open Road Summer was okay – almost good, The Start of Me and You was a pleasant read and now When We Collided. Out of the three, it’
You’re charming me to the core.I have read every book published by this author.
He’s a little too lost in his Vivi-is-the-queen world, but he has such a soothing personality that switching to his chapters was the best part of my reading.
He’s just…‘‘I’m so completely taken with the history of Verona Cove because it’s not like anywhere I’ve ever been, and I just want to know how it’s this way and why it’s that way.
Fights.I don’t think I’ve ever been so relieved to close a book in my life.I’m done with the drama.
I don't think I'll ever have the appropriate words to express how amazing this book is. We need more books like this. With these topics. With words dripping with love and strength and acceptance. Do yourself a favor and read it as soon as you can and then shove it into the hands of the person closest to you.
Another one of those books where I appreciate the topic, but didn't particularly like the story itself.
3.5 Stars Overview “Every girl wants to be Dorothy Gale or maybe Glinda. I never wanted to be the tornado.”  I’m no stranger to unpopular-opinions, but I don’t often enjoy a book more than the majority of my GR friends. My first of Emery Lord's books, the initial premise of this revolves around the typical summer romance of two teens, but in a refreshing turn-of-events, features a heavy emphasis on mental health and family dynamics.Pros:I completely wasn’t expecting the family dynamic in this,
I’m sure experiences with this are personal for each individual with the disorder, but from my perspective, this appeared to be handled very well.“Vivi was here.” <---- this was used perfectlyVivi and Jonah’s relationships starts and develops fast—but the narrative is completely aware of this.
This seems like a horrible, nit-picky thing, because I’m not sure Vivi herself understood her character.
I don’t judge characters based off if I would want to be friends with them, I base off how real they feel.
She felt like a caricature of the worlds-greatest friend and super fake.In Conclusion: This puts a twist on the typical summer romance YA by focusing on family and self-care, but certain characters were still lacking direction.
I'm so lucky to stand witness to panoramic blues skies and white-tipped waves and the craggy earth beneath my feet.Vivi has stopped taking her pills......Vivi gets a job at the pottery store and this is where she meets sweet Jonah and his little sister Leah.
Jonah has to take care of the littles (that's what they call the little kids in the family) while his brother is at work at their fathers Italian restaurant and his sister is at college.
Vivi fits right in with Jonah's family.
I would love to know this family and be friends with them!
Actual rating: 2.5/5 stars "When we collided, we bounced each other back into orbit." Looking back on this review (and cringing, because it was the first one I've ever written on Goodreads), I realized that I don't have much of an attachment to this story. I liked Jonah and his family, but Vivi got on my nerves, and I was very close to DNFing halfway through. It was extremely instalove-y, and I didn't really connect with any of the characters. I did like the author's writing style, but it seemed
Looking back on this review (and cringing, because it was the first one I've ever written on Goodreads), I realized that I don't have much of an attachment to this story.
I did like the author's writing style, but it seemed more fit for a high fantasy book rather than a contemporary.
I'm not 100% sure how I feel about this book.
I don't look back on it and want to start ranting about how much I disliked it.
But I also don't look back on it and feel all warm and fuzzy inside like I do with other books.
Perhaps this book just wasn't for me.
I read the beginning and the end and skipped the middle because from the beginning, I just knew that I wasn't going to like this book. I read some reviews and I can definitely appreciate how mental illness was incorporated into the novel, but the romance was just soooooooo unnecessary and insta-lovey and I didn't like Vivi as a character.
This is where I am, somewhere between the night's total darkness and the light's utter brilliance, and I grin as I dance and the night wind kicks up Jonah's hair. The glow of my birthday candles and the fairy lights would have been more than enough. But Jonah Daniels? He lit up my whole world.Even the constellations can see us now: we are seventeen and shattered and still dancing. We have messy, throbbing hearts, and we are stronger than anyone could ever know.  When We Collided is a very impo
Unlike other books that deal with mental illness in teenagers, When We Collided deals with bipolar II, depression in both adults and teenagers, as well as grief.
I'll drive it all the way back to Verona Cove, and I will speed past Jonah Daniels, as living proof that sad people can do anything.
I absolutely adored (and coming from a big family, you would not think so) Jonah's huge, messy family, and how his father was Italian.
Like All the Bright Places this book highlights all the symptoms of mental illness, but it also shows that not all is lost if one is diagnosed.
I think this narrative is dying down now, but it’s insane that over the course of a lifetime we were sort of expected to pick one book.
One defining book that left its mark on us and changed the course of our life.
The notion has been becoming ridiculous to me, but it’s even more ridiculous to me now.
Because of books like these.
Certain books are made for particular milestones in your life.
That makes more sense to me and this book has become my book now.
My story.
My vulnerability poured out and the one that has made me feel most understood.
I think.
★  4 / 5  ★This was definitely a cute and easy read—not necessarily a memorable book, but nonetheless it was amusing and meaningful.I’ve already read and enjoyed The Names they Gave Us by Emery Lord, so going into When We Collided I expected another amazing read—and I wasn’t disappointed!
As soon as you start, Vivi’s bubbly personality and happy outlook on life makes you think “this is going to be such a fun and endearing read!” Ya’ll, it’s a lie.
I thought it was great how Lord got that across.Overall, if you like contemporary and/or romance novels, I don’t see why you wouldn’t enjoy this one.
3 “personal taste” stars   5 “featuring psychological problems” stars   OK don’t shoot the messenger please but this reading has been a deception for me. I was on holiday when I came across this book with a pretty cover and high praise from USA today “A beautifully wrought portrait of bipolar disorder and depression …Full, compassionate and achingly vibrant”. So of course I had to read it. My main problem with the book was Viv’s personality. I really have a hard time connecting with characters
Second issue I have with the book: the love between Jonah and Viv did not feel real to me.
They did things together, Viv helped Jonah throughout his ordeals and they cared for each other but … I guess Viv acting so careless sometimes and flirting somehow with other guys and just coming too forcefully on Jonah made me disbelieve their feelings.
I honestly think Emery Lord helped us seeing these people in another light.
For that I’m grateful to Vivi as Jonah and his family needed some brightness so much in their lives.
Will I read other books by Emery Lord?
One of my favorite quotes from this book is :“That's the thing they never tell you about love stories: just because one ends, that doesn't mean it failed.
We have messy, throbbing hearts, and we are stronger than anyone could ever know.” 2.) “That's the thing they never tell you about love stories: just because one ends, that doesn't mean it failed.
You should do these things while you still can.” 4.) “Maybe we were dying planets, Jonah, being drawn into the darkness.” I hold my right palm against his cheek, and I wish I could touch him with both my hands.
Vivi a free-spirited, artistic 17 year old teenager girl from Seattle, living there for the summer with her artist mom, while working at a pottery shop.
Jonah doesn’t know everything about Vivi’s past, and despite their differences, they form a very cute relationship and helps each other deal with their problems..I really liked the love story aspect of the novel, it was super cute, and I definitely think they helped each other to become better person.
I really liked Jonah, he’s hard-working, takes care of his younger siblings, while trying to help his mom out who’s been bed-ridden since death of her husband.
After sleeping on this review, I think I'm gonna give it the full 4.
The problematic things I found were only slight, and being an #ownvoices book, I can see why some things were written how they were.
There was one thing at the end of the book that smacked me in a tender spot, and I was proud of how she ended the book.
The more I think about it, I find more things to applaud her for and less to say "I'd change this" to.
It's not perfect and not gritty enough for my liking but the + > -.
“Even the constellations can see us now: we are seventeen and shattered and still dancing. We have messy, throbbing hearts, and we are stronger than anyone could ever know.” When We Collided was a book I was hoping to like. I hadn't heard much about it, but I had seen a few of my close friends had enjoyed this book which only made me want to dive in more. However, I found this book too easily predictable, the female protagonist annoying and the ending less than satisfactory. This all contribute
I don't know a lot about (view spoiler)[bipolar disorder (hide spoiler)], and I still don't really.
However, it was nice to see a girl going for what she wanted (view spoiler)[despite the fact a lot of it was due to the fact she wasn't taking her medication.
(hide spoiler)] Despite my hatred for Vivi as a character, I thought the author did a superb representation.
Also, it felt like (view spoiler)[each time they had sex he said "something doesn't feel right" but refused to say anything.
but this post isn't about that.) #AuthorsUseTwitterWiselyWhen We Collided is the first book by Emery Lord I've read and I'm still trying to get my emotions in check.
When I first started reading this one I kept thinking, "Oh this is such a cute summer romance novel." Then BAM!
I just wanted both Vivi and Jonah to be healed and happy at the end of the book regardless of the relationship.
This book is really like a mixed bag of emotions.#ViviAndJonahI also loved all of Jonah's siblings!
I love emotional books!
Just saying I'm 50 percent of the way done with this novel and it's just not for me and I seen mixed reviews on it so - I'm not the only one.
Maybe I'm reading peoples messages wrong or what, but don't get offended by my opinion- there is a lot of opinions out there about this novel.
I get Viv as a mental illness- but I don't like her character and maybe that is dragging my feet to read the rest of this novel.
Maybe I shouldn't read books with sad qualities in it - it just makes me sad on what fictional people do to themselves.
And I read the reviews so I know what mental illness Vivi has on though I guessed it from beginning but that could just be because I am currently studying psychology in college.
Maybe it's just because I'm getting older I don't really like these young adult books as much as I used to.
I mean, I definitely read some sappy books but it just seemed… I don't know.
I've considered trying to read this book again but honestly I'm not sure if I would be able to do it.
I'm just not sure how to express in words how I feel about this book.
I wasn't a totally into When We Collided when I started it but the more I read, it started to grow on me and by the end, I loved it for the most part.I wasn't a fan of Vivi and she's pretty much the only reason that I didn't love this book from the start.
I really struggled with Vivi's chapters in the beginning because I would rather read Jonah's chapters.
Honestly, I would totally be down for a book just about Jonah and his family.
And even though I didn't completely love this book, I would still recommend it.
Vivi and Jonah, two people with different burdens to bear, teach each other about hurt and healing. I overall liked this book, despite not being too fond of the romance and all the "extra" everything seemed to be soaked in. I found it a bit annoying that every single character in this novel is a bright, unique, fascinating and completely standout person . On the plus side, the atmosphere reminded me of the island where I spent several of my past summers, so I can definitely see how summer plus a magical place could equal unforgettable romance.
Vivi and Jonah are extremely well-developed characters dealing with real issues -- Vivi, bipolar disorder, and Jonah, taking care of his siblings while his mother grieves the death of his father.
And more, the thing that really resonated for me, was seeing Vivi experience bipolar disorder.
Seeing Vivi deal with the trouble of choosing to medicate for her mental illness.
Seeing the incredibly thoughtful lines in the book about how sometimes, your brain just screws up its chemicals and there's no shame in getting help or taking pills to fix that.
This is one book with depression I'd recommend, one where there's not suicide or a mental-health-as-a-sexy-plot-line.
