https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/328907.Sharpe_s_Tiger
Ah, the delicious historical crack that is the Sharpe series. If ever there were a series of books that needed a drinking game, this is it, and I mean that in the best, most entertaining way possible. Sharpe hits something: drink! Sharpe is unjustly punished: drink! Sharpe saves the life of a superior officer: drink! Sharpe drinks: drink! Sharpe does something noble even though he hates doing it: drink! Sharpe pretends to be dumber than he is as a plot point: drink!And that's just in the first twenty pages!
What happened to my Napoleonic War historical fiction series?Once upon a time Bernard Cornwell's series following Rifleman Richard Sharpe's career in Wellington's army during the Napoleonic Wars began in media res.
However, it all feels inconsequential, perhaps because the ultimate evil isn't Napoleon in this instance.When the original series ended in a natural fashion soon after Waterloo, Cornwell realized he had a good thing going, so he wrote quite a few prequels and additions to stick in between the existing timeline.
It's still good, action-packed historical fiction, but Cornwell can do better.
This is the first in the James Bond style Sharpe series, focusing on Sharpe's earlier times in the British regiment as a private.It's close to the turn of the century .
.. late 18th century .
.. and focuses on Sharpe's time in India as different groups struggle for power of the realm.
Through luck and desperation, Sharpe goes undercover with a lieutenant to rescue a colonel from a fortified enemy city.
This colonel is vital because he has crucial information for the British to take the town successfully.A fun enough read but I find myself enjoying Cornwell's non-Sharpe novels the most.
This was my first Sharpe novel but not my first Cornwell (I started with The Last Kingdom.) I have to insist (I'm pretty sure I brought this up in another Cornwell review but whatever) that this might be a better way to get into history than being forced to look at dusty textbooks when you're six, if someone had handed me a copy of this book when I was like 10 it would have sparked my interest in history way earlier, and I think it would do the same for most people.
People mention that Cornwell's formulaic but I mean, that's what most of his readers (including myself) want from him; reliably entertaining and relatively educational books where the good guys always go through crazy shit and beat the bad guys.
Reading through the entire series, we're given a superb look at the military career of Wellington, as well as the Napoleonic war, from the political maneuvering of the London politicians, to the allied tensions of Spain and Portugal, the conditions on the ground for the foot soldiers, and the heart-breaking triumphs and tragedies of the various campaigns of the British Army.
In addition, the obligatory female love-interest in each book is also given careful attention, resulting in complex characters with equally complex roles and motivations.It's a superb series, a bit on the violent side, but I can't recommend them highly enough.
Pensando em desertar e levar sua amada Mary consigo, Sharpe acaba se envolvendo (infantilmente) em uma briga com o sargento Hakeswill, seu superior, e é condenado a levar 2.000 chicotadas (morte certa), punição essa que acaba não sendo totalmente feita, pois Sharpe é convocado pelo alto escalão e recebe uma missão urgente: infiltrar-se na fortaleza de Seringapatam e encontrar um espião escocês que tem informações extremamente úteis ao exército inglês, que precisa derrubar logo a fortaleza, pois as monções estão chegando e podem atrapalhar muito o seu avanço.
An excellent beginning to a great series, if you like historical fiction.
Cornwell does an excellent job depicting the people & the times.
He is the product of his times & that often leads him to actions most would be hesitant to take.
Above all, he's a tough man in a tough situation who manages to survive.I've read another of this series & seen some of the 1 hour shows which were aired on PBS.
Still, we liked both & I look forward to reading more of the series.
Откак в средата на деветдесете години гледах телевизионния сериал за приключенията на майор Шарп и неговите стрелци, очаквам серията книги по част от която е направен той да излезе на български.След като това очевидно няма да се случи, направих поръчка на английски за първите две по хронологично развитие на събитията книги."Тигърът на Шарп" запознава читателя с част от героите, които ще участват и по нататък във войнишкия живот и в приключенията на Шарп.
This excellent historical novel is the first in a series about Richard Sharpe, a soldier in the British army in 1799.
Unfortunately, the leader of the city, the Tippoo, has set up a brilliant trap to surprise the attackers.Although Sharpe was a thief before joining the army, he is a very clever, intelligent, likable rogue.
He finds that the commander, a French officer, is actually quite a compassionate, intelligent human being who treats his subordinates with dignity.
This is in stark contrast with British officers, who treat their soldiers with contempt as sub-human cannon fodder.This is a fine adventure story, filled with action and a big dose of violence.
There's no getting away from it, Bernard Cornwell knows how to mix fact and fiction together and successfully turn it into a highly entertaining adventure.Richard Sharpe is to 1800's what Jack Reacher is the 2000's.
The main difference between the two is, with Sharpe you also get a history lesson to help broaden your horizons.
Richard Sharpe is at heart a good guy but he is not above doing some skulduggery to improve his circumstances.
Needless to say, none of this would have been possible without the help of Private Richard Sharpe.This is a highly entertaining history lesson and comes with a 4 star recommendation.
My brother introduced me to the Sharpe series such a long time ago and I read about half of the books in this series (sadly not in chronological order) with such enthusiasm and a burning desire to see what happens next that I even surprised myself.
Richard Sharpe's adventures in the British army from 1799 onwards, the struggles, discrimination and the disappointments he faces as well as the enemies and friends he makes in his long career in the army was a compelling read.
Преди да се прочуе (още повече) с „Игра на тронове” и „Властелинът на пръстените”, Шон Бийн вече отдавна се беше превърнал в мой любимец с ролята си в един друг военен епос.
Преди Едард Старк, преди Боромир, Шон Бийн беше Шарп, коравият, но и човечен английски войник, преживял безброй приключения по времето на Наполеоновите войни.
Предвид колко добре беше приет сериалът за Шарп у нас и колко много зрители все още си го спомнят, цяло чудо е, че до сега у нас така и не се бяха появили и романите на Бърнард Корнуел, по които е създадена ТВ поредицата.
И началото е вече тук – „Историите на Шарп – книга 1: Тигърът на Шарп”.
Even if this may be 'formulaic', Cornwell writes it very well. Dashing roguish anti-heroes, savage battles, a fun cast of stock characters, all here. The book reads very quickly, too. I read the whole thing in an hour this morning instead of sampling a chapter.Cornwell has a talent, no doubt there. Even his historical notes and documentation of sources are still treats to read. Good brain candy.
The story is filled with interesting characters, an exotic locale and exciting action and espionage all set against the background of a British Army Battalion in 1799.
While the characters may not be developed to point you may find in a Tana French novel, there is sufficient development of the major players for the reader to be concerned about their well being and keep the cheering for their safety (or death).
Unlike the majority of characters of HF novels focusing on British Army, Richard Sharpe is not paralysed by his sense of morality.
This alone provided an interesting mix of plot points and characters.
Bloody hell.In order to confuse all future readers of these books, Bernard Cornwell wrote them out of order.
I listened to this during a long drive (as I do) and at first, the reader's British accent was so incredibly Eton-esque, dripping with the posh sensibilities of the dandiest of British dandies, that I was worried about how he could possibly act out a member of the lowest ranks of the 18th-century British army.
Anyhow, he did an amazing job of capturing all of the characters, including members of the East India Company and their muslim enemies.
This superbly exciting novel is set during the British siege and capture of the South Indian city of Seringapatam (Srirangapatnam) near Mysore.
A short section at the end of the book gives the reader an idea of what actually happened in Seringapatam, and indicates how the author deviated from history in his novel.The story centres around the antics and bold adventures of the cheeky and poorly educated, yet highly canny, Private Richard (‘Dick’) Sharpe and his struggles with his unpleasant superior, Sergeant Hakeswill.
Dick’s story forms the nucleus of a somewhat fantastical account of the downfall of Tippu Sultan in his city of Seringapatam in April/May 1799.
They are charming, brave, smart(ass) with a hilariously sharp (no pun intended) tongue and yet are flawed (love of bloodshed, idiotically running into danger, and greed but not too much).
In many aspects Sharpe is similar to Uhtred, but different at the same time (like not killing of priests although Cornwell still manages in getting in a few religious jibes).
At the same time it is the most fun way to visit another time period (other than in a TARDIS).
I've never been interested in this time period before, and yet Cornwell grabbed me and dragged through time.
Tippu wanted to be the ruler of the South and was willing to take the help from the French to overthrow the British.
Cornwell also calls Tippu a ruler who was willing to be accommodating enough to allow Hindus to practice their religion within his city.
The mastery of Cornwell comes best to light when he is able to prevent his story from interfering with the flow of the historical narrative and allowing them both to go hand in glove.
He has also been able to exploit some historic black holes in history for the best effect in his story.
That picture probably bears a resemblance to Bernard Cornwell's swashbuckling protagonist Private Richard Sharpe in this series of novels.
For a novel that is heavily plot based, I really felt I could picture each character, know their background, see what they looked like, and even heard them speaking in their cockney british accents throughout.
(Like I said, Cornwell captures well the idiosyncrasies of his characters) Sharpe and a British Lieutenant must pose as deserters and fight against their own men in the Tipoo's army in order to gain intelligence from a captured Scottish spy.
My rating here is really more for the entire series than just this book alone.
I am always surprised to get to the end of the book and read the historical notes and discover how accurate the facts are (I thought he made that up!).
Over the course of the series I learned all the tactics of Napoleanic warfare entirely without effort, and this is a subject in which I truly never expected to develop an interest!
Highly, highly recommend the entire series - but be aware the language is strong (although totally in character).
A friend of mine has been trying to get me into the Sharpe series by Bernard Cornwell for about a year now.
A few months back I went ahead and purchased the first 3 books in the long running series and finally got around to reading book one, Sharpe's Tiger.
I'm excited to continue the series and am looking forward to Sharpe's next adventure.
I really liked the historical notes section at the end and was surprised to learn just how much of the book was actually based on facts.
That category being Light Adventure or Historical Fiction.
I expected I would probably like Sharpe's Tiger, but I ended up liking it even more than I had hoped I would.
The main character of Richard Sharpe hit all the important points for a series protagonist - smart, resourceful, good looking.
Just as effective are the surrounding characters who are nuanced and every bit a part of the story as the protagonist.
He even details the where he departed from the actual history in the notes at the end of the book.
Sharpe's Tiger is an all-around great story and I'm really looking forward to the series.
Me recomendaron a Bernard Cornwell dentro de novela histórica.Puestos a empezar con un autor, pues el primero de una de sus sagas más leídas, ¿no?Y la ambientación muy bien.
En la India de 1799, donde existía la megapoderosa Compañía Británica de la India y donde los ejércitos británicos luchaban por esos lares.Y me he encontrado con sus cipayos.
Bueno, y con todo ese mundo del que no sabía nada y que entre la novela y consultas a la Wiki he ido rellenando una de mis muchas lagunas históricas.El libro en sí está entretenido, muy legible.
De momento está bien pero no es maravilloso.
This is just what I was afraid of...a very good historical novel, introducing me to yet another series that I must now follow.
And this series has over 20 books in it.But that's just what I expected from a Bernard Cornwell novel: great characters surrounded by a great plot and depicting a cool historical situation.
Throw in a well-drawn bad guy and a very good cast of supporting characters and you've got yourself a fine time of reading.
I chose to read these books in chronological order, as the author recommends, even though this is not the first of the series as he wrote them.
This story is about Richard Sharpe as a very young man, a private in India.
I really liked how the new setting allowed Cornwell to explore new characters, new villains, new strategies.
I loved reading Kipling's stories of India as a child, and this story is like that, but so much better!
When they made the movie SHARPE'S CHALLENGE, they adapted some of the plot of this book, but they were careful to add a general's daughter for a much older and more sophisticated Sharpe to rescue and that was exciting.
But this is still the best Sharpe book I've read yet!
As a big fan of historical fiction I wanted to try another series from Cornwell because, being one of the greats of the genre, it didn't make sense that I wouldn't love something he wrote.
I'm glad that I did.Cornwell has a great gift for really picking you up and putting you right in the middle of another place and time.
At 21 books this is longest series by far which I'm truly excited in reading through.Frederick Davidson's voice is a little grating and takes some getting used to, but he is really excellent here in portraying the different characters (he does a better female voice than most male narrators) and the action sequences.
Loving his take on the medieval time period I jumped into the "Saxon Tales" next and having finished the books in that series I was ready to tackle Sharpe.I had heard many good things about certain books in the series and I went in with high hopes.
Sharpe's Tiger is a damn fine read with a lead character who comes off as equally interesting as any Cornwell has ever written and there's no wonder that he spawned around 20 full length novels.
Cornwell does a great job building a world and populating it with characters that bring that era of history to life just as he has done with his medieval epics.I cannot wait to start on the next installment.
Matter of fact, right up until the end I thought I was looking at a 3-star, even when it did get interesting.But Richard Sharpe is a brilliantly drawn character.
Well, he's funny at least.I listened to this on audio and the narrator was wonderful.
Honestly, he might have made the difference when I finally decided to raise this to a 4-star review.To be honest, I'm not sure how many of the 20 other Sharpe novels I'll get to in the near future, but my experience with the first one (chronologically, at least) is a pretty good indication that I'll keep them on radar.
Richard Sharpe, in 1799, is a private in the British Army, stationed in India, which is fighting a war with the Tippoo of Mysore, a powerful Muslim ruler.
The book is based on actual events and remains very close to the historical record.[return][return]This is an action-packed book that, while keeping a very fast pace, imparts a wealth of fascinating detail about life in the British Army at that time, which is integral to the plot.
The Tippoo himself emerges as a sympathetic and enlightened ruler for those times.
I love the series of movies starring Sean Bean, but the books simply lack something (besides Sean Bean).
Sharpe is three-dimensional (barely), but the other characters linger in a two-dimension limbo.
This installment was jazzed up considerably by the presence of Obediah Hakeswill, but he's not a deep character by any means.
But as a grotesquerie, his scenes stood out.I might get around to reading the full book, but this abridgment read by Sean Bean (woot!) is probably as close as I'll get to touching Cornwell's series from here on out.
It will probably end up staying that way.
