https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125035.The_Duchess_of_Bloomsbury_Street
The result was The Duchess of Bloomsbury Street.Following the positive reception of 84 Charing Cross Road, Deutsch Publications in London invited Helene Hanff to promote the book.
If I found 84 Charing Cross Road to be a humorous, intelligent blend, I found The Duchess of Bloomsbury Street to be even more so as I finally experienced Hanff's encounters with the people she only knew through letters during a twenty year period.
Usually a writer for not so successful television show, Charing Cross Road and Duchess of Bloomsbury Street were Hanff's only forays into books, leaving me upset because I know I do not have any more of her intimate writing to look forward to.
84, Charing Cross Road should have a warning sticker on the cover: "Be sure to have a copy of The Duchess Of Bloomsbury Street on hand BEFORE beginning this book."If you've read 84, you already know it takes maybe an hour to finish, including bathroom breaks and getting up to brew a cup of tea (and maybe trying to make that recipe for Yorkshire pudding, while you're at it).
– Hanff finally gets to go to London.She writes another awesome book, is what happens.
Just be sure to read 84, Charing Cross Road first.
Every time I try to explain the awesomeness of 84, Charing Cross Road, I end up concluding my speech with "you'll just have to read this for yourself, to understand".
It's up to the two of us to do something, and she's better at managing.Seeing Ms. Hanff plan her stay by winging things as long as her money lasted, made me break out in cold sweat.
was it?Things looked slightly better, when it came to the tourist sights, but even there Ms. Hanff was a much more cultured specimen than I could ever hope to be.
And I prefer my novels to be fiction.====================See my review for 84, Charring Cross Road.
This is not a 5 star-book for all and sundry, but for anglophiles who want to read every book written by a British author and who long to physically visit the places they have haunted in their dreams then this is THE book for you.
I wondered if I would ever go to 'The England of literature" or if it would be "too late" as someone told Helene.
I did, in fact, go to London and having forgotten all about the details of Helene's trip.
My last morning in London I made my way there and I can truly say about my trip it was not too late.
This is Helene Hanff’s follow up to 84 Charing Cross Road and it is an account of her first visit to Britain in 1971, three years after Frank Doel’s death.
The visit combined some book promotion of 84 Charing Cross Road, meeting Doel’s wife and daughters and a number of other friends and acquaintances.
Her delight in visiting historical sites where some of those she admires first trod is also obvious, although she can be cutting about things that irritate her: “Nothing infuriates me like those friendly, folksy bank ads in magazines and on TV.
While I accept that the book is a diary and as such diary entries don't really have the coherence of any other form of writing, I still felt that this one did not transfer to me the excitement and sheer joy that Ms. Hanff must have felt on visiting London.
Somehow, I couldn't feel myself relating to this experience of the city that I have grown to love through books and movies.
All in all, I am quite disappointed with this one, especially as I took nearly a week to complete what should ideally have been read in a few hours.
Basically, this is the follow up of 84, Charing Cross Street. After postponing for many years, Helen Hanff finally manages to travel to London just in time for the publication of her book, named above. This is the journal she kept while visiting London. It was interesting but it did not make me feel anything.
. thus ends Ms.Hanff her travellogue of visiting London and meeting the friends she made at the now closed old bookshop, 84,Charing Cross Road.I was in a fugue this lazy Sunday ...travelling with Helene and enjoying, nay feasting upon the sights and pleasures that London, still a quaint backward regal city full of the spirits of dead writers, poets, aristocrats and royals.
I walked through the alleys, gaped at the chapels and museums, made many friends, concreted my friendship with older friends, and had a ball...all in all.The end of the book brought a surreal feeling of being transposed against my wishes from the beautiful trance I was in.Surely a book to be read again and relishedP.S - to be honest, I didn't like it's predecessor 84, Charing Cross Road much.
Loved the travelogue. If I can go to London I know now what I would be doing. This one is not as beautiful as 84, Charing Cross. But still a beautiful travelogue full of kind strangers.
The Duchess of Bloomsbury Street is Helene Hanff’s companion memoir to 84 Charing Cross, an epistolary book about her twenty-year relationship with the London bookshop, Marks & Co. 84 Charing Cross, published in the US in 1970, is a tribute to Frank Doel, the buyer of rare books for whom she had great affection and who died unexpectedly in October 1969.
Helene made so many friends and treasured her time in the UK; I did not want her trip to end.Readers who have enjoyed 84 Charing Cross will feel a need like me to read The Duchess of Bloomsbury Street for the joy of seeing good friends meet not on paper and ink but over a cup of tea or a glass of martini.
This is the chronicle of Helene Hanff's long delayed visit to London in the summer of 1971, following on from the publication of her well-known book 84, Charing Cross Road.
Having written 84 Charing Cross Road, she found herself to be a celebrity with a particular connection to London, and her account of her time in the city is coloured by that experience.
Highly recommended to readers who love 84 Charing Cross Road, to those who love London and to anyone who has ever embarked on a pilgrimage inspired by books and reading.
3.5 stars. A different animal to 84 Charing Cross Road, despite it being written in similar epistolary style (this book is composed of diary entries as opposed to its predecessor's letter format). An enjoyable read, though I feel it has less charm and somehow less literary focus (more 'hero worship' than 'word worship'). Worth reading if you are curious about the 'after' of 84, Charing Cross Road.
I really enjoyed her account of the London trip. She'd dreamt of it so long! It was funny,sweet, and interesting. I wonder if she ever made it to London again? Didn't have the impact of 84 Charing Cross Road, but still a great read.
Had to stretch this out over several days - just didn't want to say goodbye to Helene Hanff and her witty, sardonic voice again. It's a bit different from 84, but still full of delight. A moving testament to how wonderful things - sometimes, lifelong dreams - can still happen to you late in life.
A nice little follow-up to 84 Charing Cross Road, it chronicles the long-awaited trip to London by the author herself. Written as a diary, it's a rather candid look at her adventure in the UK, and offers a glimpse into a simpler England. Fans of 84 will definitely appreciate the sequel.
This is a companion book to the more widely know 84, Charing Cross Road.
The edition I read had both books.
While I liked this fun, fast read, I did not love it as much as 84.So love this sentiment she express in the book:I despair of ever getting it through anybody's head I am not interested in bookshops, I am interested in what's written in the books.
I don't browse in bookshops, I browse in libraries, where you can take a book home and read it, and if you like it you go to a bookshop and buy it.
Having enjoyed the story of Helene's long correspondence with the staff and families of a London bookshop in 84, Charing Cross Road I was interested to find out what happened next....This book records in diary form, her much longed for visit to London, the friends she made, the places she discovers, and the amazing kindness she is shown.I actually liked this second book a little better....it was somehow much deeper and more satisfying, and a welcome rounding off for the first volume.
Splendid. Enchanting. Marvelous.Few works of nonfiction have moved me to emotion like this one did. To look at THE city through the eyes of an ardent lover of English literature strikes notes dear to the heart. Blame it on an EngLit student's incorrigible Anglophilia, or call it Colonial Hangover if you wish.
Among Hanff's various eccentricities was her preference for ordering obscure old English books from London, rather than walking a few blocks from her New York brownstone flat to any number of Gotham's bookstores, where, she admitted, she probably could have found the same books and saved time and shipping costs.
The experience of corresponding with real Brits and holding books that had come from there fueled her romance for the place, yet a yearning to actually sightsee "this blessed plot" and visit her long-distance letter pals was frequently dashed by bad finances, poor health and travel fears.The success of 84 Charing Cross especially in England led the writer on a five-week publisher-paid-for press junket there in 1971.
Often happens that when you start liking a book, you love even the small fallacies it may have.
but it started disappointing right after the first 20 pages or so.Wanted to like this one, or atleast not hate because of what 84CC did....
and because of favourable reviews of people whose ratings match with mine.Conversations full of dry humour were the highlights of 84 CC, this one was devoid of any such conversation.Liked : 84CC's idea of letters was not unnecessarily stretched to make a sequel, instead this one was carved in the form of diary entries which was a good idea.Insight on Dickens fan following.Hated:No humour!
This is a sequel to the book "84 Charing Cross Road," which is a favorite of mine. In "Duchess," Helene finally travels to London and she gets a small taste of fame since her "84" book has been published. She takes many tours around the city and has outings to the countryside, and the book is a diary of her travels. If you liked "84 Charing Cross Road," you will probably enjoy this book.
It wasn't that great a read compared to 84, Charing Cross Road, felt something amiss.
I loved 84, Charing Cross Road so much, I was eager to read this follow-up--Helene finally gets to London!
The same verve, making friends wherever she goes, but also still her edge--she ends up instructing a bartender how to make martinis HER way, and pitches a fit at Oxford when her "tour guide" friends won't take her where SHE wants to go and insist on taking her shopping, but this is combined with trenchant comments comparing American and British culture and a sense of reverence and awe that she actually IS in LONDON!
I wish I could tour London with her!
A lovely follow up to 84 Charing Cross Road. While I definitely prefer 84, I love how Hanff finally got to London, although years too late for Frank! And I personally don't like London nearly as much as she does!Nevertheless, it was a lovely book, and I'm glad I read it. I just wish there were more people in it from 84! A definite recommended read for anyone who has already read 84!
This is one of the best travel journals that I have read. It helps to read 84 Charing Cross Road first for a bit of context and for a better appreciation of the significance of the author's visit to London. She writes so well and her descriptions of where she goes and what she sees are delicious.
I didn't spend nearly so much time in London as Helene Hanff, but through this book I can see what that trip meant to her.
Duchess so aptly captures the excitement, enthusiasm, and occasional mortification of being abroad--being American does not, you know, always work in your favor--and I enjoyed every moment I spent reading this so much that I read it instead of going to bed at a decent hour and now it is past midnight and I'll surely be in a daze tomorrow between sleepiness and thinking about how much I loved reading about Hanff's travels: the characters, the friends she makes--and how dear they quickly become!--the places.
I was so very wrong about 'The Duchess of Bloomsbury Street.'I adored the letters of '84,' but loved the depth of 'Duchess." I think I smiled the entire read, laughed out loud many times, and was so sad for Helene when she had to fly home.
It's said that tv shows like 'Friends' are comfort food for the soul.
(And I completely agree.) I consider '84' & 'Bloomsbury' the mac 'n' cheese of books.
(The highest compliment to come out of my house!)I fully expect to find myself reading these two soul-nourishing books again and again.
A delightful read from the journal Helene kept when she finally was able to visit London.
This book was even more delightful than 84,Charing Cross Road. I loved this enchanting little trip into England with Helene.
By then the antiquarian bookshop of Marks & Co. at 84 Charing Cross Road was no longer in business; Frank Doel, the manager, had died over two years before.
Ironically, she was financially able to fly to London because of the success of her book which contained the correspondence between herself, Doel and others from the bookshop over a twenty year period as they formed a close friendship.
The book had been published the year before.This is the memoir of her experiences exploring London and seeing all the places she had only been able to dream of for so long, making dear friends and meeting admirers along the way.
