https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1811543.Magic_Burns
AM-I-RITE???One thing I love about Ilona Andrews is the fact that she didn’t make Kate a sappy character.
No unnecessary crap about love at first sight and all that shit means a happier me.
But Sims 3 is way better because it makes you god.
I’m the looting type so can’t help myself, sistah!But back to Kate.
I love Kate.
I love Kate so much my heart hurts.
I love Kate so much I started writing poems just for her.
I love Kate so much I started baking cakes for her each morning.
4.5 starsAfter the trial by fire world-building of MAGIC BITES, any leftover questions are quickly answered in KATE DANIELS #2 by virtue of the shifts from magic to tech and tech to magic occurring with alarming frequency as a result of one of this book's Big Problems, the magical Flare.SIDENOTE: that's "Flare" as in flare-up, not "flair" as in you need at least 15 pieces on your uniform.
This mysterious man left behind several arrows matching the one that killed Perp, so Kate heads back to the parking deck where she cornered Perp that morning, and looks for a clue.
⚔  The Grand IAA™ KD Buddy Rerererereread Extravaganza  (GIAAKDBRE™), aka the yellow brick road to Magic Triumphs ⚔Presenting Episode 2, or How Kate Daniels Learned Being a Toy Mouse with Raging Hormones isn't as Easy as Chopping People into Tiny Little Pieces.»  And the moral of this particular rererereread is:  Psych. »  And the other moral of this particular rererereread is:  someone call Desandra ASAP! Bran wants to show her his pork sword!»  And the other, other moral of this particular rer
(GIAAKDBRE™), aka the yellow brick road to Magic Triumphs ⚔Presenting Episode 2, or How Kate Daniels Learned Being a Toy Mouse with Raging Hormones isn't as Easy as Chopping People into Tiny Little Pieces.» 
evil tentacles + undead mermaids + sea demons with ugly as fish fish eyes = my shrimpy children and my little self feel right at home and stuff.
Bye now.(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)][Original review]☆☆☆ Post-Shift Productions proudly present ☆☆☆Just Another Day in the Life of Kate Daniels►2.00 a.m.: enjoying a good night's sleep.
Oh look, these lovely ladies brought a hooded friend along: eyes of a squid, green tentacles, hovers.
I was so stoked when I found that the library now has the entire Kate Daniels series!
A (hot, of course) guy with teleporting powers and a mean crossbow has stolen maps from the local werepack, and Curran, the Beast Lord, and his chief of security, Jim, are determined to get them back, partly out of pride for Pack security.
I took a couple of forms from my desk, put them in the vampire's mouth, and pulled them up by their edges."What are you doing?" Ghastek asked."My hole puncher broke.""You have no respect for the undead."And she's quick and tough as nails:"I tell you what, you put the maps right here on the bed.
Reread 6/2018   4.5 "I'm really starting to love this series" stars   “You don't cause problems. You cause catastrophes.”   While investigating a mysterious bowman who killed her mark, mercenary Kate Daniels finds herself in the custody of a pre-teen girl. Turns out the young street girl has some magical powers, the kind of powers that 1 in 10,000 people get and there are creatures coming after her. Kate must go to the last person she wants help from, Curran, and together they fight to help the
Reread 6/2018   4.5 "I'm really starting to love this series" stars   “You don't cause problems.
While investigating a mysterious bowman who killed her mark, mercenary Kate Daniels finds herself in the custody of a pre-teen girl.
Kate must go to the last person she wants help from, Curran, and together they fight to help the girl.
Their banter is so much fun to read and I am dying for the two of them to admit they have the hots for each other.
Short review from me, because I'm dying to get to the third book.
3.5 stars ← See that .5 stars? It means that I liked Magic Burns more that Magic Bites. WOOT!  RATING CLARIFICATIONS ✘ It does not mean that I wouldn't volunteer as tribute for slapping Curran in his face. I would, because alpha-males have just that little *something* that makes me want to snarl (even if, to be fair, he's not the worst but far from it). To each their owns, okay? Even Barrons never won me. That asshole (I know, I know, *GASP* *But BARRONS!* /SNARL/). Kate's pretty amazing, though
Even Barrons never won me.
That asshole (I know, I know, *GASP* *But BARRONS!* /SNARL/).
I ship her.
✘ It does not mean that I'm against a sexual development between them, but he'll better crawl.
As long as they remain equals, I'll ship them.
✔ It means that I'm still waiting for these books to become compelling for me.
✔ It means that I'm starting Magic Strikes right now, quietly expecting it to blow me away.
BLOW ME AWAY, BOOK.
MY REVIEWS FOR THIS SERIES
For more of my reviews, please visit:
Magic Burns is one of my frequent re-reads, and I'm not sure I can do it justice.
If they ever release it in hardcover, I'll buy it in a flash, because my paperback is worn out.Kate is the heroine of the series, and one of my all-time favorite characters.She's anything but a sweet talking diplomat:"Negotiate.
If he started spitting fire, we'd be all set."She knows a losing battle when she sees one:"I looked at his face and saw the decisive thrust of the adolescent jaw.
I turned to Julie."She's creative:"The vampire started at me, his mouth slack as Ghastek assessed his options.
Rereading this with the lovelies at the Ilona Andrews Addicts group. Here's my original review from a year ago:*********** "Rambo called, he wants his bandana back.""This Rambo, he a friend of yours?""Who's Rambo?" Julie asked.If a cultural reference flies over a man's head, does it make a sound if nobody else gets it?  (This is Rambo, for all of you youngsters)I'm still loving Kate. As a matter of fact, I like her better in this book than the first one. She is more human, but still hilarious an
(This is Rambo, for all of you youngsters)I'm still loving Kate.
As a matter of fact, I like her better in this book than the first one.
The monsters were strange and scary, and I liked the introduction of Julie and how she affected Kate.
I love the "crazy aunt" reference to Kate's relationship to her.
Derek is also becoming a great teenage werewolf side-kick.Of course, the relationship between Kate and Curran is really fun.
I especially like reading all of the reviews here and seeing all of the Chris Hemsworth gifs.
Keep them coming, girls!Since Curran's hair was longer in this book:
The magic and mythology drew me in and the plot and story were even better the second time around.I got excited when new characters, which will be around throughout the series, were introduced and the chemistry building and the slow burn between Kate and Curran is even more enticing the second time around.But I didn’t know what it meant!”Aunt B frowned.
It fit the unusualness of the world Ilona Andrews has created.The only thing I wanted more of in this book was Kate/Curran time together.
It’s great that Kate is getting the job done and kicking butt on her own but I really look forward to the two of them having more page time together.
I think this is such a great idea for an urban fantasy series.I thought the Celtic mythology elements were very well done.
To be honest, I didn't really think of Curran as much of a love interest in the first book.
I like the back and forth between Kate and Curran.
Magic Burns is highly recommended to the discerning urban fantasy reader who likes a great heroine, kickbutt action, wonderful world-building, and intriguing secondary characters.
I need to have a guaranteed read in my pile for that 'rainy day', and the Kate Daniels series is definitely that!
wheeee!no poets, these two—sometimes the prose reminded me of chunk from the goonies inquiring about the possibility of some rocky road—but fuck my life can they write a Finerr Batturr or what, amirite?ladies? can I get an amen?*icy, shunning silence*no? too busy drooling over curran?s'okay.*gaze darkens lustily*...me too.
“This was hell and I was its fury.”  Celtic mythology,witch covens,lots of ass kicking and HOT shapeshifters?Kate Daniels is worried.A powerful wave of magic known as the flare is going to strike Atlanta and make possible for malevolent deities to walk among the humans,spreading chaos and death,and somehow in the center of the crisis is the street urchin Kate's looking after.And the world's gone mad.  “I needed to find Julie,find her mom,convince a sociopath to donate some blood for the good o
Magic Burns was so.bloody.entertaining!!I love Kate's narration,she's oozing sarcasm and her retorts are always hilarious!It's a book that keeps you glued to the story from the start,there's no retrieve from action and suspense!The world-building was solid,most of my questions were answered and I have to say,it's freaking genious!I mean of course I'd prefer to step into a giant turtle's throat than to live in magic stricken Atlanta,but I bow to Ilona Andrews's creativity and storytelling!Blood and gore and awesome battles,a parade of cool characters (I hate to admit it but I enjoy Ghastek so much),mythical creatures (finally an author that got right Greek mythology) and a huge dose of badassery and that's it,you get obsessed!And there's also Curran.
Better than the first book! Curran is man-candy supreme.
The only problem I have with this book is that the first 50 pages or so was so damn slow, I had to force myself through it.
His moral compass needs major work.We have the regulars, Kate, Curran, Derek, Andrea and Jim.
“You don’t cause problems.
An unpiloted vampire causes problems.
I love that even though she is a working target, she still cares about others.Derek my teenage werewolf is still as cool as ever, he was barely in this, I hope that changes in the next book.Curran also was barely in this, he was in this for like 50% only, so not cool Ilona Andrews.
And at any rate, what I have to say is exactly what I said in my review of Magic Bites, less the 'introductory book' issue (though the world-building can still get better, in my opinion), plus the 'So Curran will get hotter from book to book, uh?
The story still feels too -only, at times- centred on what happens instead of who makes it happen, which doesn't exactly suit me, considering also that the plot is not by any means exceptional.And that's how my brief raving comment became a brief messy review.
"You don't cause problems.
An unpiloted vampire causes problems.
I just realized the last 40% always saves these books for me.I had the same problem with this one as I did with the previous Kate Daniels.
Kate, at least for me, just got better by the second.
These authors actually brought to the story ones that aren't seen too often and just for that had me a instant fan.I have to say this surpassed the first book in everything and by the looks of things, it's bound to get better.
The authors aren't blatantly obvious, I would say, but had a way of leaving hints and clues all around tying everything together if you had the urge to really see.
Sexually frustrated Kate Daniels is being pursued by every interesting male creature in this book:a) Saiman (With a magic store body, a Polymorph i.e. he changes human forms): “Can you dance? Dance with me Kate!”, “Stay with me. It will be fun.”b) Ghastec (One of the People, a Master of the Dead i.e. he creates vampires)“A pleasure to see you, as always”, “You are in an excellent physical shape and you are well proportioned.”c) Bran (A goddess' hound, a scoundrel, a thief, a brigand, a human pre
Sexually frustrated Kate Daniels is being pursued by every interesting male creature in this book:a)	Saiman (With a magic store body, a Polymorph i.e. he changes human forms): “Can you dance?
It will be fun.”b)	Ghastec (One of the People, a Master of the Dead i.e. he creates vampires)“A pleasure to see you, as always”, “You are in an excellent physical shape and you are well proportioned.”c)	Bran (A goddess' hound, a scoundrel, a thief, a brigand, a human previously who just wanted to be hero and to be remembered)“Keep me warm tonight and maybe I’ll feel generous in the morning.”“Why don’t you sleep with me?
3.5 Stars I liked Magic Burns a little bit better than the first one in the series.
There is a mystery in the foreground that our heroine, Kate, finds herself wrapped up in and as the story unfolds towards the end of the novel we learn a little more about her and the other characters.
It’s not rewriting the wheel or anything but it is definitely fun!“You know what I like about you?
You'd pull on Death's whiskers if you could reach them.”The mystery of Kate’s past becomes a little bit more clear in this novel.
I am definitely enjoying this series so far!
Fourth re-read: 27.04.17I really like the slow burn between Kate and Curran, however, damn, I just want to skip all the in between...
I really do love Curran.Third re-read: 16.09.16I still like it.
I don't love it, but it's damn well close.
Second re-read: 06.08.15Awesome, even still.Re-read: 28.07.14Man, I can't get enough of Kate and Curran.This series get better and better :D I love Magic Burns by Ilona Andrews!
I seriously can't wait to start reading book #3!
My baby, Curran, I love you man!
<3 and Kate, she's awesome!
:) Perhaps, hopefully, Kate and Curran will get together in the next book...
Yes - I'm hooked on the Kate Daniels series. For now. Don't know how many books I'll read before I lose interest if I even do. I stuck with Ilona Andrews Edge series to the end (need more!) and enjoyed the spin-off novel of Gunmetal Magic with Kate's best friend so I'm thinking I'm in for the long haul. Good thing I have six novels left to read :).
I knew by page 2 that I would love this book. Here's why: "Alright Jeremy. Give me the salamander and I won't cut your head off."  When I first started this series I was definitely holding myself back a little from letting myself love it. First of all I'd been traumatized by a past relationship with a series (Anita! Why!?). Secondly this series reminded me of the one that broke my heart. But not anymore! I was so entertained while reading this book that my earlier annoyance at the whole magic vs
I knew by page 2 that I would love this book.
When I first started this series I was definitely holding myself back a little from letting myself love it.
I was so entertained while reading this book that my earlier annoyance at the whole magic vs tech weirdness evaporated.
Kate's ass kickery was epic and if you don't know what she is by the end of this book then you missed something.
Come on, you know this would be awesomeSo I'm going to keep reading the series and hopefully I continue to love it.
First read July 2014Second read May 2016I liked this more than the first one. We get to see the real Kate, all her aspirations and insecurities. She broke my heart so many times. Everyone around her dies. She's so alone.  "You have the Pack. You're surrounded by people who would fall over themselves for the pleasure of your company. I have no one. My parents are dead, my entire family is gone. I have no friends. Except Jim, and that's more of a working relationship than anything else. I have no
First read July 2014Second read May 2016I liked this more than the first one.
I can't even have a pet, because I'm not at the house often enough to keep it from starving.
When I come crawling home, bleeding and filthy and exhausted, the house is dark and empty.
We get to meet Julie for the first time.
I know, TMI, but I can't help it, all time favorite song)My favorite part in this book was when Kate and Saiman were dancing in the snow.
The snow refused to fall but chased us, following our movement like a light shroud.
Kate starts looking for the guy and becomes tangled with a teen girl looking for her missing mom, bad-ass monsters from Celtic mythology coming to life, and magic flares which make shape-shifters struggle to keep their bestial part in check.
Once again most of the monsters, including the Celtic ones I mentioned are of non-mainstream variety which is good and welcome.
This was my second time reading this and I am absolutely keeping my original rating.
FIVE STARS!
It was way better the second time around!
(And I can't often say that with books I've read more than once.)It was kind of like reading it for the first time, I had forgotten so much.
Like how much Kate and Curran's tension and chemistry SIZZLED.
I love how they tie in ancient mythology, obscure religion, and magic.So basically in this one, there's a huge magic flare coming up and the world is going to hell in a hand basket.
Re-read with Ilona Andrews Addicts (IAA) group.
I finished this last night just before sleeping, so of course Kate followed me into my dreams.
The last battle was so visual and I kept seeing her running in with both swords flying.
I mean, that was awesome!
She is an excellent character!
In this book she goes from one problem to the next like a fairy tale.
(Who, BTW, did not show up in my dream.
Damnit!) Probably one of my favorite things about Kate is a trait we both share.
😊 Excellent book!
Excellent story and world building!
Amazing characters!
On to the next book.
The entire series is on sale!!!Review:My love for Kate Daniels started strong in Magic Bites; when I first read it, I didn't think it would be possible for me to love her - or her world - more.
I don't want to say too much about the plot itself for fear of spoiling, but it was more strongly and tightly put together than the first book.If I thought I loved Kate before, this book solidified my feelings for her.
Derek, Kate's "sidekick" - one of my absolute favorite characters in the series - begins to show just how awesome he is, and how powerful.
… And I am in love.
This book was better than the first.
Kate is still the best, her snarky one-liners are on point, but she also tries to just be a good person and I love that in books.
She is not perfect but damn close to it and she is self-aware enough to know her limitations.
I LOVE her evolving friendships with Derek and Andrea and I adore how she just takes on Julie.
The world building is still impressive and I love how we are slowly told about Kate’s origins and what that might mean.
Surprisingly entertaining and it feels like a serious step-up from the first book.I mean, witchy adventures and seven-year solar-magical catastrophes aside, who doesn't love a battle between gods?
I've seen you in other series, how beautiful to see and you again!
Nothing is quite smooth sailing, but what did we really expect?Drama, action, super bloody blades, wild magic words causing damage to the wielder, and chaos?
That is what we expect, and I'm really happy with it.
:)I'm getting a hint of what the series is to become, I think, and I do like it.
Magic Burns had everything I loved about Magic Bites and then some, you have more of kick ass Kate, more action, more world building, fantastic character development and most importantly more Curran!
If I had to give you my favourite word from Magic Burns it would be "Psych" and I'm sure everyone who has read the book will know exactly what I'm talking about.I was glad to see that we started to uncover more about Kate's past and her abilities in this instalment.
However, we all know by now that something is brewing between her and His Furriness Curran and she is blind to the sexiness that is Bran, a Hero from Celtic Mythology, or the pure awesomeness of drunk on Magic Saiman, who danced and twirled with her in a magic-induced snow storm.
I have been warned he might disappoint me, but I want to love him as long as I can:):):) He makes me smile!
The monsters were pretty scary too, but as always, the joint efforts of Kate, some witches, some vampires and most of the Pack, proved to be too much for the bad guys...
