https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30244.The_Killing_Dance
Well, The Killing Dance is the seventh book in this series that I have read, but the first where she sleeps with Jean-Claude, the vamp.
I'm a little miffed cause if she was gonna sleep with either of them, I was hoping for Richard, the wolf.
Or, at least hoping she would sleep with him before giving it up to Jean-Claude.Now, here's the thing: in books 1-4, Anita is painted as taking the higher moral ground of she ain't sleeping with Richard unless they get married.
Did the author feel squeamish about making Anita a good little Episcopalian when she knew she was gonna write some smutty stuff later on?
Oh the fuckers again.Let's start by saying that this is a first installment that actually felt as if Hamilton tried to write like an proper, caring author who appreciates and respects her language.
I like people who have good sexy times and share it with me by words, or showing, whatever dudes.What plot, don't ask me.
That is cool though, I am like that too, and stole his fucking mind too.
In the end, I just want these characters to fuck good, and kill a lot of people while at it.
Unfortunately, I think the author thinks Anita is smart, and so I end up reading passages that are meant to show Anita getting some sort of insight, when no.
She is not smart, she does dumb selfish things and I do not like her.Richard is some sort of man-boy who spends a lot of time expressing or worrying about his feeeeeelings.
We also get frequent descriptions of the rest of his body hair, I'm wondering if the author has a fetish.
She sounds like a marvelous argument for gun control.
These guns and her Nikes.Along with people trying to kill Anita, which is pretty much a daily thing anyway, we are treated to Anita angsting over her relationship with Richard and Jean Claude.
I would totally want to bitch-slap him!Richard's wussiness is also hurting his pack because he needs to kill the alpha and become alpha himself, but he is a pacifist and wants to resolve things peacefully.
Instead of using guns, Anita soaks all of her stuffed penguins in gasoline, lights them on fire, and starts chucking them at the monsters trying to kill her.
Ancak bu meymenetsiz , gereksiz adam ile birlikte aşırı minnoş , aşk kuşlarına dönüştüler.Eh sonuç olarak ben her zaman vampir hayranıydım zaten.
Anıta 'nım muhtemelen serinin bir sonraki kitabında yine deli gibi duygusal gelgitlerini okuyacağım , o yüzden diğer kitabı bir süre geciktirme düşüncesi icerisindeyim.
Boğuyor beni kadın, Jean Claude 'u reddedip , kendini aklamaya çalıştığı her an , kitabın içine girip , deli gibi dövmek istiyorum.
HİC KİMSEYE BU KADAR SİDDETLİ BİR NEFRET BESLEMEMİŞTİM DAHA ÖNCE.Şuan da seri için tek umudum , Jean Claude 'un hayran olunası aşkı, gayreti ve sabrı.
“There was a look on Jean Claude’s face that was hard to describe. The devil must look like that after you’ve signed on the dotted line and given away your soul. Pleased, eager, and a little hungry.”   Turning point!There’s a hit out on Anita Blake.Who could hate her that much?Edward’s back in town to play bodyguard. Everything’s better with Edward. The sexual détente between Jean Claude, Richard, and Anita will escalate... and explode.*The audiobook narrator is the best I’ve ever had.Here are some of my castings:
My public service announcement for the day is this:If you read 'Anita Blake' books beyond this one, you've only got yourself to blame.I've put a little effort into putting my finger on where this series went wrong.
Somewhere along the line it went from being 'Anita Blake: Vampire Hunter' to 'Anita Blake: Supernatural Porn Star'.
I like sex, and I also like porn.However, when I buy a book about a vampire hunter...
Caveat emptor and all that jazz.Anyhow, the first four 'Anita Blake' books were very good.
After that just put your favourite porn in the VCR and save yourself the effort of reading the following fourteen books in this series.
Again another great book in the Anita Blake series, and this one is probably one of my favorite in the series.
Finally in this book we see a conclusion to head battle between Jean-Claude and Richard.
Vampire or Werewolf?
Which one will Anita pick?
Can one woman successful be with two men and not lose herself?
I found "The Killing Dance" to be one of the sexier books in the series, not because there is sex in the book, but because of all the sexual tension that is built throughout the book between Anita and the two men in her life.
This is probably my favorite book of the whole series.
There is so much focus on Anita, Jean-Claude, and Richard and by book 6 it was needed.
Richard's dealing with his own pack issues; he isn't seeing eye to eye with his co-alpha, Marcus.
That climaxes in an unbelievable scene.Of course, this series isn't just about werewolves.
Jean-Claude has been biding his time for when Anita will come to him.
This book in general is a little more racy than past novels, but there is still a fair amount of action, gore, and suspense that we have come to expect.
In The Killing Dance Anita Blake discovers someone has put out a serious hit on her life, she’s still torn between Richard the werewolf and Jean Claude the vampire and she’s drawn deeply into the tangled politics of the were-pack.
If Bloody Bones was Jean Claude’s book then the beginning of this one is Richard’s but that isn’t necessarily a good thing for those of us who were rooting for the werewolf.
Poor Richard, I wish he had stopped with all the protesting and given in completely to his baser nature sooner, if only to get on with things, because even I’ll admit that it made me like him less as a character in this book.
There is so much rage in this woman, she makes the Hulk look like Stawberry Shortcake!I went for the hallway and the sound of screams.As always, the murder scenes in the Anita Blake series are impressive and stunningly delicious.
He stayed crouched in the water with that feral light in his eyes, and I went to him.Edward guarding her body, Richard accepting the monster within and Jean-Claude always manipulating behind the scenes at play; this book will twist your smile into something extraordinary!
Sexual sadists, Raina and Gabriel are slinking their way back into the bedroom with their rape, blood and snuff films.I recommend this book to all adults in need of an eye-opening experience!
The dead body is Robert, one of Jean-Claude's vampires and Monica's (AKA Horrible Slut that Anita hates but still hangs around with) husband.From there, we have the truly interesting part: Anita, Richard, and Jean-Claude forming the Triumvirate.
I also was interested to see how Anita would heal Sabin, and wanted to know how the werewolf power struggle would turn out.But as usual, the Anita books come with their own set of problems.
If the smut were removed from the rest of the books, then all of them together might make a single novel.
. .Sorry, but if I wanted all that sex I'd turn on Skinemax, HBO after dark or one of the other smut channels.
When I sit down to read I want a STORY.
I want action (and NOT the bed kind, either) Laurell, Laurell, Laurell--what HAPPENED????
You used to write a really good story, one that actually had you caring what happened to the characters and the action.
1) Anita being hunted by an assassin, pretty cool2) Much Edward LOVE3) Bad clothing like normal4) Anita being a bitch, like normal5) Werewolf drama- pretty cool6) Necromancy awesomeness- Anita raising vampires is pretty cool, enjoyed the Sabin/Cassandra/Dominic thing even if it was predictble.7) Robert dying and have to deal with Monica- blah who cares?
Anita HATES this bitch.6) The reason this book got two stars instead of three Anita freaking cheats on Richard and while they try to reason away why she sleeps with Jean Claude it's bull shit.
"Oh no Richard shifted on top of me and ate Marcus!" Boo fucking who bitch.
Is it sad that at this point I'm more interested in the mysterious Edward's backstory than I am in Anita's romantic travails? After a while, Anita's dithering and trust issues get stale - at least this one involves some progress on this front.
Tabi bunu Edward haber veriyor, çünkü ilk önce teklif ona gidiyor ama kabul etmiyor.
Anita Richard'a, Marcus'u öldürmesi gerektiğini defalarca söylüyor ama Richard kabul ediyor mu?Tabi ki etmiyor.
Hatta ilk denemede Anita yanlışlıkla JC'nin vampirlerini de zombiler gibi kaldırıyor.Nihayetinde Richard gidip Marcus'u öldürüyor ama Anita gördüğü değişimi kaldıramıyor ve direk JC'nin kollarına koşuyor.Kitapta ayrıca vampir Robert'ı öldürüyorlar.
O kısımda işin içine Marcus ve Sabin denilen vampir giriyor.
Anita kaçırılıp Gabriel ve Raina'nın yanında gözlerini açıyor ve onları biçip sevgililerini kurtarmaya geliyor.Sabin mahvolmuş bir vampir, içten içe çürüyor.
İleride Edward onu bir iş için tutacak, çünkü Anita adamını öldürdü ve bunu merak etmekteyim.
Hamilton's first Anita Blake novel, Guilty Pleasures, because a friend told me the first few books in the series are good.
I found the first book entertaining, although Anita feels a bit two-dimensional.
But all the time I am reading, I keep wondering why.The love triangle between Anita, Jean-Claude and Richard has its moments, but I find myself caring more about the secondary characters than Anita.
If you are already reading Anita, this book is ok for a quick escape.
If you select it as your first novel in the series, I'd be surprised if it leaves you wanting more.
I wish I could write myself into so that I could kill Anita.
She has become one of the worst characters I've ever read.I loved her in the first couple of books (what kind of woman doesn't like a bad-ass chick?) But now she just annoys me with all of her whining.Another thing Hamilton tends to do is create mountains out of molehills...
To create filler.
This ENTIRE freaking book was filler...
Of course how many people would sit down to read 'Anita chooses Jean-Claude, sleeps with him, Richard eats Marcus'...
And I know I'll keep reading them to see how much worse they can get...
5/5 ⭐ This book was a bit slow at the beginning but it picked up quickly. I so want to jump right into the next book with that ending!
5/5 ⭐️ This book was a bit slow at the beginning but it picked up quickly. I so want to jump right into the next book with that ending!
I know eventually this series plunges more into eroticism than anything else (but finally in newer books starts to revert back towards the horror mystery feel of these earlier ones), but here it is very easy to see Hamilton shifting her narrative from that of the noir-laden horror mystery (with some romantic entanglements) into a full blown paranormal romance.
The book starts out strong with Anita being hunted down by an assassin, but about midway through we lose part of that story and instead get a lot of Anita's internal exposition about the love triad going on between herself, Richard and Jean-Claude.
Anita Blake serisi hiçbir zaman benim istediğim şekilde şekillenerek ilerlemeyecek. Devam kitaplarını bunu kabullenerek okursam daha da çok seveceğim sanırım. Laurell'in tarzı daha şimdiden oturdu kafamda. Daha 56154 okunacak kitap var seride. Ara vermeden okusam bu kadar sevmezdim diye düşünüyorum. 6 kitaptır kitabın başında bir anlaşma yapılıyor, başka bir olay ortaya çıkıyor, en baştaki olay rafa kaldırılıyor ve iki olay da kitabın sonunda birbirine bağlanıyor. Şaşırtmıyor artık. Bazı olaylar uzun uzuuuuuuuun anlatılıyor ve bu sıkıyor. Gerçekten sıkıyor. Verdiğim puan kitaptaki olaylara değil kurguya. En iyi kurgulanmış Anita kitabıydı bence. Ayrıca Laurell'in seriyi harcadığını düşünüyorum. Umarım ki kurgu yeteneğini kaybetmez.
The first several novels in the Anita Blake series are great.
As you read each book, you can really see the character development as Anita becomes more sure of herself and more comfortable with the "monsters".
However, some the later books have deteriorated into little more than soft porn for women.
However, I feel it cheapens the series, which features a great role model in Anita as a women who has accepted that her life works the way it is and makes her happy, even it is not what the rest of the world thinks is normal.
Rating: 2.5
The Killing Dance is the sixth book in the controversial Anita Blake series.
I'm not sure yet which side I'm on.What I do know is that I had a great time reading The Killing Dance.
There was some great JC/Richard interaction in The Killing Dance.
That being said, I have to admit that after reading this book I'm completely partial to Jean-Claude.
I already know a bit of how their relationships are going to evolve, but I'm still curious to how they become that way.Maybe it's important to keep enough time between reading the Anita Blake books.
you've been warned: SPOILERS AHEAD.I'm not sure why, but I don't like Richard all that much, he never made me swoon, he didn't seem "right" for Anita and, heck!
after being celibate for a few years, she gets a little scared and ends up having sex with Jean-Claude?
Forget Richard, if I were Jean-Claude I'd be pissed, "you want to sleep with me becauuuuse...
I mean, she can kill cold-bloodedly but abstinence after having had sex is "too hard", so it's better to do without from the beginning...
the last 3 books :-) I know I usually give really short reviews, basically just saying whether or not I liked the book, but I found myself thinking about this one, and wanted to write summore (with spoilers).So this book is where Anita finally makes a choice between Jean-Claude and Richard.
Not that Richard isn't imperfect, but he's still so far outside her world that it would be crazy for them to get together.And this is why I like the Anita Blake books more than the Kitty books.
It's also probably what I like so much about Jean-Claude.
This one wasn't one of my favorites and I'll explain.
So much information to get to the point of the book and that just felt forced.
Most of this book felt forced.
I wanted to see a little more growth with Richard, Jean-Claud and Anita.
Plus the ending with the fact that she got freaked out and then ran off to Jean Claud over Richard's change.
We see Richard change and then she was all about Jean Claud.
She could have done a lot of things I just felt that LKH was confused on what she wanted to do with this book and she just started throwing things at the wall and waited to see what stuck.
Hamilton, Anita Blake continues to explore her relationship with her two very different romantic interests—Jean-Claude, Master of the City and the sexiest vampire around, and Richard Zeeman, the werewolf that hates himself almost as much as I hate him—while also juggling werewolf politics and investigating unsolved murders.As usual, Blake is a busy bee, which keeps her from having to think to hard about her love life.
Even so, she continues to waffle about her feelings for the unworthy man.Am I frustrated by Blake's choice in romantic partners?
Yes. Do I think Jean-Claude is the sexiest undead man a girl can ask for?
Ha ha, Anita mentions coordinating her clothes with her gun in the FIRST PARAGRAPH!OK, I'm finished.
The basic mystery of this book (who is trying to kill Anita) was secondary to the relationship development.
Obviously Anita has to choose between Richard and Jean-Claude, and I was a little disappointed by Anita's choice.
Both WHO she chose and HOW she made the choice.
It almost seemed an accident of circumstance rather than a conscious choice.
That inner battle seemed unbelievable to me anyway.I am sort of caught up in the serial nature of these books, and will enjoy them over the summer as good, pulpy fun.
Whee! Anita finally gets some lovin'!
