https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/627206.The_New_Drawing_on_the_Right_Side_of_the_Brain
This book is a double-edged sword: On one side you have this immediate almost magical improvement in your drawing, on the other hand it's not good for long term improvement.My first drawing after reading just a few chapters, blew my mind away.
After all, it takes months of practice not reading of a few chapters from a book to improve drawing, right?The downside is that you only learn to copy what you see in front of you.
You don't learn how to use your drawing medium, nothing much about shadows, no anatomy, no perspective.
And then, a year or two later, I try again, with a new how-to-draw book and vigor, only to repeat the process.Recently I unearthed my box of accumulated art supplies and drawing books, and noticed the orange spine of Betty Edwards Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain.
I recalled reading a bit of it years ago, and setting it aside because the exercises seemed rather complicated and required the use of tools.
Once this pattern gets set cognitively, it's difficult to draw a head that isn't a circle.
Edwards takes the reader through a series of exercises to show how much we tend to draw symbolically.
He wasn’t quite successful, but he did remind me of this book and that has to be a good thing.I read this book about ten years ago at a dark time in my life when I had just separated and moved out from the ex-wife.
I had never been any good at drawing and generally hated books that went on about the right brain / left brain distinction – so I’ve no idea why I picked this up.
I still have a long way to go with this - I find that symbols are constantly at war with my conceptualization of the world (and strangely I am wondering if that takes away the beauty with which we see it, after all, a rose is a rose is a rise, right?) - but this book is certainly a big step in shedding the messed up approaches to visual thinking that I have acquired.
هذا كتاب باللغة الانجليزية رااائع جدا ،،يحاول أن يجعل المرء يتصل بالجانب الأيمن من دماغه ،وهو الجانب المعني بالفن والإبداع ،،رحلة عبر العقل ومحاولة لتعلم طربقة التفكير في الفن ،،فيه تمرينات ممتازة لبعض الرسومات والتقنيات الأساسية في الرسم مفيدة جدا خاصة للمبتدئين ،،أنصح به لكل مهتم ،، وهناك نسخ الكترونية على الشبكة ،،
This is a very popular title that frequently pops up when people ask for recommendation on books that teach drawing.
The techniques can be easily applied to challenging tasks like drawing foreshortening or a realistic portrait.One thing I noticed on online art forums is, beginners generally like the book.
The thing is, this book provides the basic techniques to get people started.
And yes, I did read everything and went through the exercises, which aren't really too hard.This book is highly recommended to beginners learning to draw.
1) This book is based on a completely outdated view on neuroscience, the left brain-right brain term
I had an art class that used this book as one of the textbooks.
It immeadiately changed the way I viewed things.
It was one of the pivotal books of my life (I ought to include that as a tag.)When I home-schooled my then suicidal teen daughter and sat her down with this book, she flipped through it for 15 minutes, and started drawing as if she had been taking lessons her whole life.
She found a talent she didn't know she had (and several others, but not because of this book.)I highly recommend it for anyone who says "I can't even draw a stick figure." This book may change your mind.
This is overkill for younger students (which is why I recommend the accompanying workbook as a "student text" since it gets down to the bare-bones of drawing.) The author divides drawing into 5 basic skills: the perception of edges, the perception of spaces (negative space), the perception of relationships (sighting perspective & proportions), the perception of lights & shadows, and perception of the whole.
I highly recommend viewing the entire thing before beginning to draw, as it makes the material in the book so clear and your progress will be rapid.
Atau tidak percaya dengan term kebisaan menggambar itu sendiri?
Idenya seru, dan dengan teknik yang juga seru.
:D.Bocorannya tekniknya: instead of latihan menggambar wajah orang dengan modal cermin atau selembar foto dengan cara konvensional, hari ini coba latihan sketsa dengan modal selembar foto wajah siapa saja di tangan anda.
Fotonya akan terbalik atas bawah.
Mulailah menggambar, dijamin: hasil gambarnya akan lebih mirip dari sebelumnya.
Sehingga sadar atau tidak ketika disuruh menggambar yang bekerja bukannya tangan tetapi malah ingatan di kepala akan proporsional wajah.
Ubah perspektif sederhana, maka tangan kita akan bergerak sejujur jujurnya tanpa diganggu oleh pagar ingatan.
It's not really the crux of the book, however.From my perception of the book, it is easy and sometimes necessary to separate the scientific motivations behind Edwards' drawing exercises from their rationales and ultimately their results.
One can benefit from the insights held in this book without the left-right narrative, but the science behind them might, rightly, goad into drawing those who describe themselves as "not really artsy".
Their instructions rely heavily on exactly what Edwards warns against: drawing figures by relating a system of symbols to one's perception.
Forget that you think all your drawings look like a kid's, and try it, it really was good for me.The main idea seems to be that we draw what we THINK we see, not what we actually see, because our brain interprets it on the way from our eye to our hand.
We did a lot of drawing from photographs turned upside down, to disguise the subject so that our brain didn't interpret it, and I think that was a good way to train your eye to see the real shapes.
An excellent book for anyone interested in art; most of the focus is on perception and is beneficial for all skill levels.
Call it "accessing your visual cortex" if you don't like "R-mode", but the end result is the same.
But still, there were at times too much emphasis on Right vs LeftThe handwriting section at the end was thoughtful, although a little forced as it seems bad handwriting is a pet-peeve of the author.
Despite that, I found treating handwriting as an art to be as fun and engaging as the other exercises.
I picked it up because I'd heard lots of good things about it, because I could stand to be a lot more creative, and because I couldn't draw to save my life.It's true that the author is prone to wax poetic about the drawing process; at one point, for instance, she suggests you draw the folds in your palm without looking at your palm, and calls the result a "beautiful record of consciousness".
The author recommends that you buy graphite and a special frame and bond paper and all kinds of other things, and I'm sure they're helpful, but in the end what you're doing here is pencil drawings, which everyone has already done in meetings and classes.
Great book for beginners and people that "think" they can not draw.
What is useful is the series of exercises that allow students to disconnect from the symbolic and verbal way of thinking when taking a realistic approach to drawing.
But once you've mastered the idea and are able to go into the trance, drawing what is in front of you, observing contours and negative shapes and generally looking without thinking , the next phase involves some serious , ahem, left brain activity.
If nothing else, the idea that drawing is not a matter of manual dexterity (according to Edwards if can write decently, you can draw), it is a matter of how you look at objects and interpret it on paper was a boon.
Edwards uses a lot of jargon about the sides of the brain and modes, but basically the book boils down to the following: Instead of actually drawing what we really see, most of us try to draw symbols of what we see.
In her seminars she has students use one method of drawing for the before and another method using charcoals for the after.
I’m still going through this book so I will write up a more complete review in time but I will comment on what I think of it so far.Betty Edwards seems to express herself quite well in the way she teaches and the methods she uses to bring an absolute beginner from nothing to actually having a chance at art.
The book also includes exercises you should do in order to advance from being a simple beginner in art.If you feel like drawing just doesn’t seem to be working out for you and are considering buying a book to help, this is definitely it.
Know keep in mind I was just a beginner then and when I would finish an exercise and find out to my surprise that I had actually had done a good job I was excited as every novice is probably.Sometimes I go to my shelf and pull it for old times sake.
I think this book is timeless, it should be read by anyone deciding to begin a life as an Artist.
It's one of the very first books I've read that got me started and on my way.
This is a wonderful book in teaching you how to see, and then how to draw.
These are 5 essential skills, and as we move along to learn about colours and the use of other mediums, we still need these 5 skills.The last 2 skills (not taught in the book but mentioned) in art is drawing from memory and from imagination.
But these need to be built on the first five.I am very glad to have read this book, as there are many drawing books in the market and from what I see, many are not very useful because they teach techniques but not how to see.
I remember in elementary school there was a teacher who walked around to different classrooms with a cart teaching art, but that is all I remember.
My schools did not have art classes after that, until I entered high school, but those classes were all advanced and for people that had been involved in art their whole lives so it was too late to get started.Now, a decade later I'm shown that it is not too late and that I indeed can learn to draw.
Reading through this book the student has a great teacher that cares about the skill of learning to draw.
Regardless if you want to be an artist or not, this book is kind of an interesting read.
I think ‘natural’ artists tend to see the world differently and this book, if you put in a lot of time, will help you see the world that way.
No, you will have to spend months doing the exercises over and over.If you don’t want to draw, the book is still interesting as it explains a few facts about the human mind.
Explaining why people tend to fear drawing once they get older.
This is probably the best book you could read to improve your skills at drawing.
The key being that this book teaches you how to 'see'.
In order to draw with accuracy it is necessary to let go of your preconceived notions about what things 'should' look like and using symbols to represent features rather than observing what is actually there.
This book is an amazing tool for learning how to work with your own brain and become really observant and powerful artistically.
I also noted when I first read this book that my first art teacher in school used some of the early assignments to teach us to draw.
I finished this forever ago, I don't know why I never wrote a review of it. Anyway it works. It does the trick. You will learn how to do representational drawing using this neat little self hyponsis trick. If you think you cannot do realistic drawing, you are incorrect. Anyone can do it really. But porting this skill onto drawing from memory or modeling shapes which don't actually exist in front of you... that is a completely separate task.
maybe part of it is that placebo effect but that never worked for me before :PAnyways she has alot of good information in the book, she also has some exercises I found helpful in forcing your mind to study a image and each part of it in concordance with other parts to attempt to more accurately depict your drawing.
I was quite surprised.While this information is helpful and the book will certainly make you a better artist there is nothing like practice.
Unless you practice alot you will go nowhere so keep that in mind :)
I was impressed at first by the book, and I certainly have seen some improvement in my drawing but I think that after I read some critical reviews of the author and how "it is just copying" I became discouraged and became to find fault with the book.
I don't disregard it because I have seen myself draw a few things that I never thought I could manage.
However, when I'm not doing the specific exercises my drawing is no where near the quality of what the book claimed I should see.
But, I still don't feel that I actually can draw.
I am glad I read the book and would recommend it to anyone like me. I started pencil drawing about three months ago and have never had any drawing instruction previously. After spending about three weeks with this book, practicing for about 2-3 hours a day, I am now at a skill level where I feel comfortable (dare I say proud) to show my drawings to my friends. I am no longer afraid (out of embarrassment) to sign up for classes with the Art Students' League!
A couple of observations about the book:- I think it can be a good book for beginners, however, it lacks a lot of important information about drawing.
- I don't know if the focus of the book was only to silent the L-hemisphere of the brain or to teach us how to draw.
I sense it was more to say that L-hemisphere is not artistry and R-hemisphere is.- The last two chapters of the book I sensed was more about the Author's own opinions about the way she can use the tools rather than actual facts.
things like shadow/light are lacking explanation.
This book was recommended to me by an art teacher.Yes, I was fascinated by art, love photography and crafts.
But felt I was unable to competently draw.
I had given up even trying to draw, even though I had enjoyed art and drawing as a child.I love the realization that everyone, even you and me, has the ability and talent to draw - to be artistic.
This book will help you to connect with this side of yourself that is often dormant or hidden.
Read the book, work through the exercises and be patient with yourself while knowing you can do it too!
(I am still reading at the moment.)I am always occupied how we can change our thinking habits and make it more usable.
I am not the kind who thinks in the law that we are "made at birth".
That isn't the why we aren't able to sing, draw, or capable for doing things which are told that is impossible.This book teaches you the how.
Betty Edwards is fantastic teacher who teaches you the way that you can learn to understand that drawing can be taught with clever, well-rehearsed tactics.
Love this book which gave me back the joy of drawing!I joined 3 art classes where our teacher used this book. I stopped drawing when I was 12 because I wasn't good at all. Now 40 years later after the first few classes and a lot of practice everyone including myself are very pleased with what I draw.I is so wonderful and it's giving you peace of mind only focused on one thing: the drawing infront of you.
