https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111009.The_Golden_Dawn
I really own this book. It was expensive. This is by far the most expensive D&D Manual I've ever laid eyes on. I've tried to cast some spells from this book, and I think my energy was off or something because I don't have a Mercedes, most of my enemies are blissfully living, etc. Kinda disappointed....oh, one other thing. If, you actually read this whole book, you are certifiably insane.
By going through a graded course such as the Cicero's, "Self Initiation," or "Modern Magick," by Donald Michael Kraig and using this book as supplementary material one could make much progress upon the esoteric path by this Golden Dawn tradition.
To leave the initiations alone until one has the privilege of experiencing them, or to carefully dissect and understand them one at a time, until at great length they are built into ones aura, whether working with a temple or not.
The Ciceros recommend building a temple and give a well thought out course for self initiation.
See also Regardie's "The Tree of Life", the "Corpus Hermeticum", and probably more books on the Qabalah (I suggest Lon Milo Diquette "Chicken Qabalah" & "Understanding the Thoth Tarot", Ellen Canon Reed's "Witches' Qabalah", Dion Fortune's "Mystical Qabalah", Gareth Knight's detailed "Practical Guide to Qabalistic Symbolism".)The language of "The Complete Golden Dawn" is dated, it will not be easy for most people to read.
Most people want easy."Liking" this book is irrelevant.
I have THREE COPIES, and keep buying used ones as I see them available, because this important book is indeed expensive.
I might spend the rest of my life exploring and dissecting it.
This book is worth taking a look at in regard to some of his interesting research into the occult. The problem is, one must take the time to separate the wheat from the chaff, and unless the reader has already delved into other sources, this can be quite tedious. In the end, I found not much of use here, and in general, I thought it was a big yawn.
Outrageously bogus, utter nonsense, but I must admit I read this thing in my youth.

This is an essential guide to technical systems in Hermeticism. A must have for Mystics. This book embodies the formal principles of initiation into work with the subconscious and astral worlds. The Golden Dawn was a fascinating arrangement to those who sought advent into the inner worlds in the absence of Gurus and Enlightened masters.
Not really something "to read", just more of a nice, comprehensive reference to have on mysticism and the occult.
A lot of water has gone under many bridges since this was written.It is still a good read but nowadays things have moved on.However it is still worth a place on your shelves.. good basic stuff.
I call this book "The Black Brick" because it looks like a big, black brick!
It is not a book that you will sit down and read straight through.
You will find yourself becoming distracted by more interesting things, and well this book will take a year of so to get through.
The most frustrating thing about this book is it contains a lot of nonsensical arcane rituals that you will find no one to help you understand them because you don't possess the secret password.

The go-to manual for every Golden Dawn startup since it was published. All the outer order material is published here in one volume. Some of the inner order material from the 5=6 grade as well. One could mine for a lifetime the gold buried within the rituals and lessons. Another lifetime and more in the Book T lecture.
Unless you are really interested in the occult, this book is really boring. I read it during my religion phase, and I haven't picked it up since. I'm not ripping on the book, it's just not my cup of tea...
Fundamental material.
An excellent and most comprehensive handbook for modern occultists and scholars.
Probably only for masochists. Loving it so far, although I admit I've not got past the introduction yet.
Impossible to really finish this stuff in a year. Maybe I'll review it next year.
This is a set of 2 books 6 volumns that contain the teachings and rituals of the Masonic Order. As background reading it is a must for those interested in occult.
Sometimes a bit wordy.
The original groundbreaking occult work of the 20th century. Regardie's printing of all the GD lessons had alot of blowback but in the end it was all a good thing.
REQUIRED READING!!!
indispensable.
good resource book for ceremonial magic
not a book you read from cover-to-cover...
Well I am still reading, but the information, the rituals, etc all seem pretty interesting
Why is it that people who are into occultism, are so interested in jewish mysticism?
These rituals contain a lot of quotes from the Bible, more from the Old testament, but also from the New testament.
Qabbalah stuff, but I’d rather read the Bible or the Zohar, than this.
Otherwise, if you’re not into occult/Golden Dawn/thelema etc., don’t bother reading the rest of the book, just look at the pictures.I'm not dissing on anyone who is into this kinda stuff, but if you're just looking for some info on what the Golden Dawn is, this is not the book for you.
While I enjoy reading about alchemy, the occult, magic, and so on, it boggles my mind that this book is regarded as foundational to the modern occult movement.
At best, it seems like somebody reasonably well-versed in Christianity delved into Jewish mysticism and read a little bit about the ancient Egyptian religion, Hinduism, and Buddhism on the side.
I suppose this is nearly a must-read for anybody who wants to study the occult (either the occult itself or the movement), but don't expect to enjoy it.
Whether you believe or not, this is an amazing collection of information, correlations and interesting data that you just won't find assembled in one place anywhere else. A volume worthy of anyone's reference shelf.
It was interesting to read this. There are so many conspiracy theories about the "Illuminti" and such that I wanted to read their text. It is pretty much what I expected. It's got some interesting information, but it's mostly just rituals and stuff. Pretty dull. I wouldn't really recommend it.
I wanted to know not so much what the Golden Dawn folk actually did as what they thought they were doing with their ceremonial magic. Now I know.Well worth buying cheap.
