https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/162340.The_Copywriter_s_Handbook

Bly does exactly what he recommends - deliver the facts. I think I had to pause every other sentence just to think for a second and actually process the information. This is a textbook and therefore takes a lot of concentration. The information is excellent, however I give it 3 stars because it doesn't cover all of the aspects of copywriting that I encounter. I think copywriting also has to do with branding these days and the copywriting that Bly does is really only about sales. For sales copywriting the book is great however for branding it lacks.
As a professional software developer rather than a copywriter, my assessment may be unfair, but The Copywriters's Handbook disappointed me.
While the book did teach some of that, there was plenty that was completely uninteresting to me.My best suggestion is to read the book, but be prepared to skip outright the chapters that won't interest you.
You have no need to write a brochure?
Good, don't read the brochure chapter because it won't teach you any other copywriting techniques.Treat the handbook as a reference to use when you need insight into a specific copywriter's subject.
I think I read the third edition the first time. I ordered a copy, but I think this one is the first or second. it's quite different which is a bit surprising. I actually think this one is better - if my original review is accurate. it's pretty hard to say as most of the information in the book is fairly general. there's not much in here not in a dozen other books. It was nice to have it presented again though!
I must say that this is a very handful book for advertising students as well as for beginners in copywriting. You can say this is a sort of a manual-book in copywriting. What I like about this book is that it provides wide examples of effective headlines, sub-headlines even direct-mails(Sometimes I used them for my assignments, hi3x).I used this as reference while I studied advertising in university and it really helped me in understanding the fundamental of copywriting.If I am a lecturer, I will make The Copywriter's handbook as a text book for my students :)
You have to buy this book. You can't just check it out from your library. You will refer to it again and again if you plan to write for businesses. I think you should buy it if you are self-employed. It will teach you how to create a quick flier and save money. Then you can hire copywriters for the big writing jobs and whip out the little jobs in minutes.
This is coming from a non-English native in need of the basics to write web copy:I really liked this book because it got to the point with examples; there's the usual MBA BS (the 4 Us: urgent, unique, useful and ULTRA-specific... wait... specific doesn't start with U :-) ).
Great starting point, I can see why it's a classic. Vocalizes some of the things about writing you already knew, but assigns terminology to them. Good reference/brush-up book as well.
This was useful but so outdated that you'll get more practical advice by reading social media/email marketing blogs that publish tips like this daily.
OK read, but agree with other reviews that quite a bit has changed since the book was last updated.
The straightforward, hard-sell philosophy seems to go against the tenets of neuromarketing and the age of storytelling.
All things with the likeability factor seem to go right out the window, except for the advice on the conversational tone.
Some examples in this book seem to contradict his advice at times.
And a lot seem suited for an audience that is at awareness level one only, before the copywriter needs to call attention to tough-to-colloquial-ize product differentiation factors.
Get inside the mind of a guy who's been at this over 25 years. He's worked with multiple businesses in multiple industries. If you read nothing else in this book, read the section about headlines. The simple step-by-step process for headline creation is worth its weight in gold.Bly is a technical practitioner and a chemical engineer, so you get an interesting perspective on writing and the thought process behind writing to sell a product or service.
A book on writing sales copy on just about anything. I'm not a copywriter, so this is taking some time to digest, and I will probably read it again. I'm reading this based on recommendations from books on indie publishing. I have to agree with. the recommendation, too.
Eneittäin hyvä ja syväluotaava opus copywritingiin. Tulee pysymään meikäläisen repussa työkaluna :)Ainut miinus oli, että digimarkkinoinnin luku oli osittain out dated, mutta sen toki ymmärtää, koska kaikki netissä tapahtuva menee aika kovaa vauhtia eteenpäin.
The book partially obsolete but still worth reference
Lots of informative info for the copywriter but for the fiction writer helpful but not as helpful as Closing the Deal...on Your Terms by Kristine Kathryn Rusch
Great introduction to copywritingA very helpful window into the world of copywriting. The chapter on how to deal with freelancers was particularly helpful and fresh.
A good bare bones guide to writing copy, but I disagree that a good visual and a little bit of creativity won't significantly help your copy.
Bly is one of the Ascended Masters of Copywriting.This is essential reading for people in my business, at least for those of us in America.
Great stuff in the first half about copywriting, the rest is somewhat out of date by now.
The three stars are because I imagine this book must be very helpful for those who write copy, yet I didn't find this book particularly useful nor engaging myself. I didn't find anything worth taking notes on.My takeaways were:Be clear.Be brief.Use understandable yet incorrect grammar if it helps with being both clear and brief (e.g. sentence fragment: Now!)Explain the customer's benefit not just why the product is great.Direct ads that sell are better than elegant, artful ads that don't sell.
3. Persuade.""When you write a headline, get attention by picking out an important customer benefit and presenting it in a clear, bold, dramatic fashion.
Avoid sexist language""Pincus begins with a headline that conveys a promise, shows how the promise is fulfilled, and gives proof that the product is everything the copy says it is.
Then he tells the reader how to order the product and explains why the cost of the product is insignificant compared to its value.""Make your writing concise.
Edit your writing to remove unnecessary words, phrases, sentences, and paragraphs.""Checklist: Does the copy fulfill the promise of the headline?
کتاب رو یکی از دوستانم بهم قرض داد که بخونم تا شاید در کارهای جدیدم بتونه بهم کمک بکنه. انتشارات سیته این کتاب رو در ایران ترجمه کرده که کلا کار تخصصیاش نشر و پخش کتابهای تبلیغی و تجاری هست. کتاب واقعا خوبیه. نکتههای جالب زیادی داره و کلا برای یادگیری نویسندگی تبلیغاتی و تکنیکهای عمومی هنر نوشتن، خیلی به درد بخوره. ولی یک مشکل بزرگ داره و اونم اینه که کلا زیاد به درد ایرانی جماعت نمیخوره. یعنی اگر من یک آمریکایی بودم، به کمک راهنمایی این کتاب قطعا یک شغل تبلیغاتی با درآمد سالانه 50 هزار دلاری رو
انتشارات سیته این کتاب رو در ایران ترجمه کرده که کلا کار تخصصی‌اش نشر و پخش کتاب‌های تبلیغی و تجاری هست.
نکته‌های جالب زیادی داره و کلا برای یادگیری نویسندگی تبلیغاتی و تکنیک‌های عمومی‌ هنر نوشتن، خیلی به درد بخوره.
ولی نکته‌های این کتاب با شرایط ایران زیاد سازگار نیست و فرهنگ این شغل در ایران خیلی متفاوته تا اروپای غربی و آمریکای شمالی.
اگر کلا براتون شرایط جغرافیایی مهم نیست،‌این کتاب می‌تونه براتون جالب باشه.
ولی اگر دنبال نکته‌هایی هستید که برای کار در شرکت‌ها و محیط داخل ایران به دردتون بخوره، زیاد این کتاب رو توصیه نمی‌کنم.
Not bad, logical. Essential for any individual with marketing aspirations :)I like the author's website, precious; bly.com ; Wow!Blog • Twitter • Facebook • LinkedIn • Instagram • Google+
An abundance of timeless advice on selling, writing copy, being a freelance business-person, and an effective contributor to the bottom line is contained within these pages. There are many details that are out-of-date and don't really apply in today's world of technological marvels and this book may not be the go-to handbook it was when published in 1990. Still, it is a good jumping-off place for someone exploring the field of copywriting and advertising. And it's still good to have around as a reference source for those bits that will remain timeless.
Great tips and methods for writing effective copy that sells.
On the back of the book, it says it tells you "how to build a successful freelance copywriting practice" and there was no chapter on this -- just a chapter on how to get a job at an agency or other firm and how freelancing is an inferior choice to this.
There is also not much on web copy that I feel is particularly relevant, but that is mostly because this book was published in 2006 and the web has changed much since then.
Overall though, great book.
Good, but slightly dated reference for anyone interested in copywriting. I would have liked more information about online freelance sites and how to deal with the job-finding sites such as Freelancer.com, Guru.com, or Elancer.com.Otherwise, the author gave a nice breakdown of styles and requirements for various types of copywriting, which are still valid today.
Bought this book for a college course -- "Advertising Copywriting." Overall, I found this book very useful. It will be a resource in which I can look back to in the future; definitely not a "one-time" read.I highly suggest this book to anyone trying to learn about copywriting, or even those who are quite advanced. There is useful information for all types of people.
The book is filled with more informative help than any other on this topic. What really impressed me is how down-to-earth this guy's writing is. He really uses his own guidelines and makes you feel like you're having a great conversation with a friend.
Buku pegangan cara menuliskan suatu yang dapat mengundang orang untuk mebeli bahkan melakukan sesuatu... Butuh bakat strategik dan analitik bagi pelaku, ditambah keterampilan lewat latihan tentu saja... Nice to read for anyone who wanna be a copywriter...
A book that definitely suits its target audience i.e. copywriters or beginners in advertising. I for,action comes succinct and to the point as well, which I greatly appreciate. Overall, a useful read.
