https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/364089.The_Last_Don
The Last Don, Mario Puzoتاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و ششم ماه ژوئن سال 2009 میلادیعنوان: آخرین پدرخوانده؛ نویسنده: ماریو پوزو؛ مترجم: حبیب الله شهبازی؛ تهران، افق، 1386؛ در 637 ص؛ شابک: 9643693228؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان قرن 20 مداستان کوچ مافیای ایتالیا به آمریکا ست. آخرین پدر خوانده حکایتی است از آمیزش سنت و مدرنیته. انسانهای سنتی و عشیره ای میکوشند در جامعۀ مدرن آمریکایی نه تنها زنده بمانند بلکه رشد کنند و به ثروتهای کلان دست یابند. نظام قبیله ای برای سیسیلیهای مهاجر کلید جادویی پیروزی بر جامعۀ مدرن است. ا. شربیانی
It is a good book Alhamdulillah but I prefer 'The Godfather' than 'The Last Don'. Cross De Lena does remind me of Michael Corleone.Domenico Clericuzo and Vito Corleone are oppositions because Domenico Clericuzo is a wise and ruthless man who is determined see his heirs established in legitimate society but whose vision is threatened when secrets from the family's past spark a vicious war between two blood cousins. Vito Corleone is a friendly man, a just man, a reasonable man, the deadliest Lord of the Cosa Nostra.My favourite characters are Cross De Lena and Domenico Clericuzio.
Let them swim to the bottom of the ocean. -Don Domenico Clericuzio...and this badass Don who has ran a crime family for decades actually means what he said, guys....and this, is my most favorite line from this book. (Link: https://giphy.com/gifs/movie-godfathe...)Strange that I was clueless about what Don Clericuzio actually meant when he causally commented (usually in the middle of his business meetings with his sons and trusted nephew, etc) 'let them/him/her swim to the bottom of the ocean';
(Link: https://giphy.com/gifs/movie-godfathe...)Strange that I was clueless about what Don Clericuzio actually meant when he causally commented (usually in the middle of his business meetings with his sons and trusted nephew, etc) 'let them/him/her swim to the bottom of the ocean'; the true meaning of these words had totally escaped me, but once I realized its true meaning, I was thrilled!Okay, back to the story itself.
As light-hearted and delightful those Hollywood characters can be, all these lengthy Hollywood-plots still weights the whole story down!!!!(Link: https://giphy.com/gifs/movie-godfathe...)Yet, the ending part really does make up for the shortcoming of this novel.Did I mention that this book isn't quite up-there with The Godfather?
Don Domenico Clericuzio is one sly devil. This book was brilliant. Enough said.Let them swim at the bottom of the ocean.
نویسنده به طور ضمنی، به نقد جامعه آمریکا و آرمان های مدرن آن می پردازد، جامعه ای که در آن با پول می توان دست به هر کاری زد.
ارزش های آمریکایی در کتاب به خوبی تصویر می شوند و نویسنده درمقام دانای کل در توصیف و موشکافی شخصیت ها به قدری موفق عمل می کند که مخاطب بعد از خواندن نیمی از کتاب، می تواند براحتی آن ها را قضاوت کند.هر فصل از کتاب به ماجرای عضوی از خانواده در گوشه ای از آمریکا می پردازد تا اینکه در گره گشایی نهایی، افراد مذکور در دایره ی سرخ قرار گرفته و و سرنوشت هرکدام روشن می شود.
That's so insulting to the readers, it feels like the fools within the Chinese government believes readers cannot handle reading about one rape scene when there has already been people getting murdered, their corpses gotten sank into the sea and all this violence shit in the story.*sighs* At least I borrowed this book from the library and reading in Chinese took a lot less effort and energy than the original English version.Last but not least, although I'm glad in this novel women are treated as people who rightfully have their own desires, careers and stuff but it is still icky when Mr. Puzo talked about Hollywood actresses have to use sex in exchange for leading roles and stuff.
Completely icky.
Although The Godfather is still my favorite, I like this one too. The last Don brings the authentic writing syle of Mario Puzo. Dramatic and chilling. I love how he build each character, develop each of the character and with dramatic bangs colliding them into a climax.
BETTER THAN THE GODFATHER IN EVERY ASPECT!This is Mario Puzo at his finest! The characters are beautifully well drawn, the pace is carefully controlled and the climax breath taking!If only Coppola could turn this into a movie instead of that silly cheap TV cash in, we'd have Mafia GOLD on our hands! Cross De Lena, about the coolest character this side of Michael Corleone! Cooler in fact!
Similar to The Godfather in many ways, it didn't seem to be as tight of a story, but it's been years since I last read it, so I can't say for certain.
Net points are dreams of money & never pay out due to creative accounting, as this writer finds out the hard way.
Then the studio goes on to make millions on sequels & doesn't have to pay the author because they bought the characters, too.
I wonder how much autobiographical info is in this story?Not bad, but I'm glad I just borrowed the audio book from the library & didn't pay for it.
rereadbetter than the tv series, and the tv series was so great(even in it had changed some details)the chinese title of the series was 最後的黑手黨教父, the last mafia godfather
Last book by the last don himself.Very very well written Full of surprises. Loved it, excellent form.
یکی از قشنگترین کتابهایی که خوندم، داستانی جذاب و گیرا، این کتاب برای همه کسایی که میخوان از یه داستان خوب لذت ببرن مناسب هستش
really not sure why this wasn't made into a movie as well.classic puzo, one of his best books. if you have any interest in the mafia, the godfather, the sopranos, etc, grab this book.
My favorite review so far was simply "too many chapters." But Puzo's problem in this book extends beyond excessive chapters, or length; it's that he tried to write two different stories in one, with too many characters and too little tension.
The story about the Clericuzio family is actually quite interesting and well crafted, but Puzo drags out the set-up for 300 pages, finally puts together some genuine plot movement, then rushes the ending, at just under 500 pages, making both the journey and the payoff frustrating and unsatisfying.
Many of the Hollywood characters are so forgettable, I struggled to understand why they were a part of the story at all.
فوق العاده تاثیر گذار ، داستان قوی و پایان بندی عالی
One of those books that I found are difficult to read but touch a nerve. I have read this more than three times if I rememeber, and once in Urdu. Having read the God Father, I just loved this one. Mario's books (All of the two I have read) have a capability to make you restless with the sheer amount of violence. Not recommended for faint-hearted.
Many characters are counterparts to their earlier incarnations in “The Godfather” in a further exploration of the pitfalls that can occur in attempting to transition from the rackets to legit business.
It could be argued that even the story arc bears some resemblance to "The Godfather."It's true that the ultimate goal of many of the organized crime figures of the first half of the twentieth century was to go legit, and the high percentage of the sons and grandsons of the “big shots” that became Doctors and Lawyers exemplifies this.
Although, one must not get caught up with the scenarios from The Godfather book as it may distract you from appreciating the story and you just might fall into comparing the two novels.
Personally, I feel that the book is full of surprises from the characters.
Some of the parts may be "predictable" (after reading Puzo's The Godfather), the characters would surely catch you off guard.
Honestly, this kept me going and since I have read Puzo's Godfather and The Sicilian, I know character twists are in store.Overall, this book is a must-read for all who appreciate the Mafia.
"The Last Don" is Mario Puzo at his best, rich with timeless, meticulously constructed characters and twists and brutal turns that made his landmark novel "The Godfather" the masterwork that it is today.
The glaring difference here is that the Don of this novel, in comparison with Don Corleone, is not nearly as endearing a character but this is because the events of the novel do not specifically revolve around him.
I know I will never be able to look at movie stars and producers the same way again after having read this masterwork.
Just going by the reviews here on Goodreads it seems that people either really like this book or are really disappointed by it.
I think the reason the responses are so polarized is that people are basing this book on the Godfather book and movie which is really unfair.
Believe it or not, I have never read The Godfather nor have I seen the movie.
Whatever the case may be this is a good book.
I believe that is called "plot build-up" and the book is good enough to keep your attention until the very last page.
رمان خوبی بود. اما در اواسط(و یا شاید سرتاسر کتاب) نویسنده به صورت خیلی افراطی جو هالیود رو "بد" توصیف کرده بود، به طوری که می شه گفت خودش از این جو بد رنج می برد و شاید بشه ادعا کرد که از وضعیت بد نویسندگان در هالیوود گله مند است.اما اواخر کتاب، بسیار مافیایی بود و بسیار جذاب.در پایان باید بگم که بین کتاب "پدرخوانده" و "آخرین خان(پدرخواند)"، کتاب پدرخوانده رو برتر می دونم.
I know the world will want to kill me for this but I liked this better than The Godfather! Never have I ever wished for there to be movie on a book so desperately as I wished for there to be one based on The Last Don, and I HATE film adaptations of most movies. Also, Cross De Lena - my God! He has to be right up there in my Harem of Hot and Perfect Fictional Men.
This is a novel based on a twenty-five year multi-generational effort by a mafia family to go legitimate. It is colored by an old war between two families with a touch of Romeo and Juliet and a fued between two cousins with completely different approaches to life and the family. Just as good as the Godfather.
I enjoyed reading The Godfather so I also looked forward to enjoying this also....I was disappointed....Too many side stories I became anxious to finish the book. I didn't enjoy it.
11/24/16 Through the Night Stig Saeterbakken ***** What an amazing mysterious lyrical dreamy contemplative novel. Unlike anything I've ever read. A man faces his demons in "the house where hopes turn to dust". Wonderful. This book is pretty pulpy (which is a good thing), but the writing quality is awful. I've always been a sucker for mafia things, and there was enough action here to keep things moving along despite the stilted amateurish style. I may read one or two more of Puzo's books, but he
11/24/16			Through the Night	Stig	Saeterbakken	*****	What an amazing mysterious lyrical dreamy contemplative novel. Unlike anything I've ever read. A man faces his demons in "the house where hopes turn to dust". Wonderful.																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						This book is pretty pulpy (which is a good thing), but the writing quality is awful. I've always been a sucker for mafia things, and there was enough action here to keep things moving along despite the stilted amateurish style. I may read one or two more of Puzo's books, but he seems to me to be something of a hack.
Similar to the book of the godfather, however, there is no need to read the godfather first. The hardest thing about reading the book is keeping track of all the characters. It is a very good read and I am looking forward to finishing the book. So far, not the best gangster book I have read but it has a lot of competition.
I kept expecting how worlds will finally meet, collide and how each side's inner workings will be pitted against each other, but that happens only toward the end and briefly.Even "going legit" plan is touched only briefly, Don's sons are there but reduced to supporting characters, popping up from time to time but playing little part in overall progress of the story.Then there is Santadio war.
This is clearly not a book about mafia family "going legit" because we see little of those attempts.
It's not a story about influence of organised crime in Hollywood because that subplot has weak links to main protagonists.
Alongside this, Mario Puzo provides deep insight into the main characters (Cross, Pippi, Athena, the Don, Claudia for instance) that reveals the twists in their personalities much like the characters of Guiliano, Aspanu, Vito, Michael and Sonny.
Furthermore, he demonstrates his skill at telling story simultaneously along different timelines with excellence.On the other side of the coin, the writer deals with a lot of redundant characters which spoils the main focus of the novel.
A higher mark would have required fewer pages, less characters, less violence, more loyalty, and more intelligent sayings.The best line of the book comes from Don Domenico Clericuzio when says "It is dangerous to be reasonable with stupid people."He explains this to Cross De Lena when he talks about the Santadio War. He wishes he had not been reasonable with the Santadios.
But his wife is not impressed because she knows he did it.It's a pity Puzo wrote too many pages.
His ability to create gritty, realistic Mafia families and characters is at a level that is second to none.
A departure from the Corleone family, this time the Mafia family are Clericuzios, primarily based in New York but branching out their operations to Las Vegas and Hollywood in an attempt to find legitimacy.
Cross brings his street instincts and Mafia sensibilities to these locales.Anytime I read a Mario Puzo novel, I’m always struck by his professionalism and the quality of his prose.
The prose in this novel is at the same level of excellence that I have come to expect.
