https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/535441.The_Zombie_Survival_Guide
Much as I might try to generate conversation with strangers (and, occasionally, among friends) I usually just end up rambling awkwardly until uneasy silence takes over.
Though that would be cool."What would we do if we were attacked by zombies right now?" is an excellent way to get to know someone.
Plus, you get a sense of their attitudes, general knowledge, and strategizing capabilities.
If not, why am I hanging around them, anyway?One difficulty I've run into with this, though, is the question: What kind of zombie are we talking about here?
The slow, shambling zombies of Romero?
This book is only really for those hardcore zombie enthusiasts.[image error]Your home should look like thisUnless you really, REALLY just love all things zombie, don't bother picking up this book.I thought I loved zombies enough.
Information about which specific guns kill zombies best is great but only for people who have ever seen a gun and can hope to do so again.I've seen a real gun exactly once.
America is a largish continent with over 200 million people in the northern part alone.
Australia is a largish continent, slightly larger than North America and it has roughly 20 million people total.
Some quips and pop culture references are funny, but we'll see who's laughing when facing a scenario he avoided by saying, "Science cannot explain..."Areas which I found lacking included group composition and psychology, weaponry, viral epidemiology, and tactical organization.
Tough question, and one Brooks doesn't address that I remember.Also the weaponry section is terribly lacking in specifics.
A discussion of crossbow draw-strength versus range to give people an idea what they'd have to contend with, but worth it given the excellence of the weapon as a silent, reusable option, would also have been nice.I still feel I understand precious little about the virus itself.
What to do when zombies take over, that's fun, right?What becomes obvious once you start reading it is that Brooks spent a lot of time thinking very seriously about this.
Part of what makes this book great is how humorless it is, even though you will find it in the humor section at the book store.The more you read, the more you realize that Brooks has a very specific agenda in mind.
It’s just not that funny, at least not in the way other humor books are meant to be.
Which is problematic because while the central concept is that it's all about bringing zombies into the real world and throwing out the silly notions hoisted on us by works of fiction, Brooks has, in all honesty, just created another zombie universe with its own silly inconsistencies.
The best, most readable part of the book is the chapter on recorded attacks, but that's because it reads much more like zombie fiction and that's exactly not what this is supposed to be.
I did not finish this one sadly :( While I enjoyed World War Z, this one was too bogged down in the weapons section. Perhaps I just wasn't in the mood for it. Great for detailed information on types of weapons and their uses though. I mean hell, I know an aluminum baseball bat isn't the greatest weapon now against a zombie after a couple of attacks.
Would you just go take care of the ghoul yourself?These are the questions I kept asking myself, especially while listening to The Zombie Survival Guide late at night while driving up the hill to my apartment.
Both actually describe the disappearance of the colony at Roanoke Island to be from zombies/vampires respectively.The Zombie Survival Guide is a manual for people to use to prepare for a zombie uprising.
Plus, they've been around for ages, it's just been a cover-up.The Zombie Survival Guide is an insanely well thought out book.
I’m mastering the zombie language!
You might want to get some books and start learning a few things..Every person on the planet should own this book; you can never know when the next attack is going to be.To do list:• buy a machete• buy an M1 Carbine• buy leather suit• cut hair short• buy supplies• buy a dirtbike or horse, whichever is available• create a voodoo zombie• become a professional zombie hunterHere are some personal results from my research.Stay safe!
And in case you turn into a zombie stay out of my way or eat lead!
there.The books makes me wanna get fit and buy all the equipment I need, and you know what I will.
I mean we will never ever know what could happen in the future will we?In one sense because of the movies, books and TV shows I really want a zombie outbreak, but on the other hand I am really a huge fan of The Walking Dead (I call them munchers).
Any kind of apocalypse would be unbearable.Anyway back to the book I find that a prison based camp would keep you safe for a while even so it's a pretty secure base.
I started this book because I read World War Z and enjoyed it, for some value of enjoyed which also includes being seriously freaked out.
This book further cemented my freaked-outedness.
I now recognise that my home is inadequate protection against the zombie menace, that not only do I not have any sort of weapon handy which could decapitate without putting me in harm's way but even if I did I would have no skills to use it, and that I am not fully prepared for even a level-1 situation were it to occur near me.Plus I thought I saw a zombie the other day.
Damn you, Max Brooks.
Damn you.
:-pGue sempet mikir kalo si Max Brooks ini keknya bener2 gak ada kerjaan ampe sempet2nya bikin buku ini.
Sepertinya dia mewarisi gen sinting ini dari Mel Brooks; bapaknya yang sering bikin film2 parodi sinting bin kocak kek Robin Hood: Men in thights, Dracula: Dead and Loving It dll.
I WILL SURVIVE!!!*joget2 diatas genteng nyanyi lagu disko jadul Gloria Gaynor~I Will Survive**ni lagu cocok banget buat ngeledek zombie yang lagi kelaparan*ini salah satu tips penting yang ada dibuku kalo lo dikepung zombie ==> Remain Entertained!oke..
(In fact, what prompted me to write this review so long after having read the book was a dream last night where I was trapped in a barn while the reanimated bodies of the farmer and his family banged on the doors outside).Since drawn to Zombie fiction, I picked up a copy of The Zombie Survival Guide and was enthralled by the academic delivery on what weapons to use, what environments to seek or avoid, and the history of the walking dead.
I didn't like this book from the beginning, which is sad because I was so optimistic about the humor of it.
Yes, it's a zombie survival guide.
It's also boring as anything to read, needlessly filled with under-researched "facts", and a poor attempt at humor.
Much like the novel "Pride and Prejudice and Zombies" (published after this book by a different author), the joke lies in the title and as such is amusing.
However, the humor ends shortly thereafter and leaves the reader with a 200+ page book trying to prolong a joke that has already gotten it's laughs.
You know it makes sense.So, if you want to survive the rising of the eeeeevil dead, you need to follow the following simple rules:1.
The only way to kill a zombie is to destroy their brain.
The last thing you want is radioactive zombies.10.
So, I thought, what better way to broaden my horizons than to read the Zombie Survival Guide.
Max Brooks takes a very thorough approach to survival in a world over-run by zombies and even gives illustrative "historical" examples of zombie outbreaks, which makes it all the more funny.
i can't take it seriously and even if i did it would only help if i lived in the us.the best part of the whole book is the historical stories just enough facts ot almost make you believe.
Este es un libro súper entretenido y diferente. Te dejas llevar por él, y aunque sea una guía para cuando llegue la Apocalipsis zombie, de verdad te lo crees y quieres llevar a cabo todos los consejos. Además de toda la película que te montas en tu cabeza sobre qué harías tú mismo en una situación así. Quizá me cojeó un poco al final, cuando añade historias sobre vivencias de gente. Está súper bien hecho, pero a mí me resultó algo denso.
Actual rating : 4.5 starsReally liked this book.Great for fans of the walking dead.I feel ready for a Zombie Apocalypse now haha.
The premise behind this book is great and I really enjoyed the format of an actual "survival guide" for battling zombies.
That said, I was probably going to give this book 3 stars except that the last 50 pages were able to secure the book a 4 star rating.
These last 50+ pages were a series of "actual" historic accounts of zombie attacks dating back to 60,000 B.C..
These accounts were a ton of fun and showed the spark of brilliance that would make Max Brook's next book, World War Z: An Oral History of the Zombie War, the best Zombie book ever written and one of my "All Time Favorite" novels.
I chuckled quite a bit, so this book gets a solid three stars. IF the zombie apocalypse ever does arrive, this baby is getting bumped to five stars on GR stat - that is, if the power hasn't gone out yet. My issue with the book is that it's a funnier concept than an actual read, because he takes himself so seriously. Really, he goes into extreme DETAIL about all the ways to kill zombies, which weapons to use, where to hide, how to defend versus attack. It's like reading a manual sometimes - wait, it IS a manual.
hmmmm interesantno štivo. Iz nekog razloga nisu mogli da nadju znak "stepena" pa su gurali nule svuda gde je bio potreban. Postoji u wordu opcija add symbol ako niste znali…. U svakom slucaju najzanimljiviji delovi knjige su bili poredjenje raznolikog uružja i deo o dokumentovanim napadima kroz istoriju.jaka trojka s moje strane.
El libro que todo el mundo debería tener en un apocalipsis zombi.
Having learned how to survive a horror movie (see my review of that book for further details: http://www.goodreads.com/review/edit/...) I set out to arm myself against supernatural, unnatural, cursed, undead, and other threats.This will be an invaluable resource in the case of Zombie infestation and plague (they [zombies that is] seem to be spreading from what I can tell).
I'm not sure how instrumental Bruce Campbell is in all this but maybe it should be looked into.Anyway, the book in question will certainly be useful in the case of plague zombies giving a guide to tactics, and supplies.
The Zombie Survival Guide reads like a non-fiction preparatory guide for an honest to god zombie invasion.
And it does so in a way that is actually super interesting.I tend to have trouble reading non-fiction books.
However, as my most recent plot bunny involved a zombie apocalypse, this was an amazing resource for all things zombie.
That being said, I did still find it dry in parts, and that's probably why it did take me so long to read it.Also, the section in the end with the "historical" accounts of zombie outbreaks actually made me forget for a second that this wasn't actually a non-fiction book.
There seems to be some disagreement as to whether this is a humor or a horror book.
As a horror book—even keeping in mind its goofier moments—it really gets under your skin, makes you reassess your surroundings and your safety in ways, I think, few monster stories do.It’s also interesting to look at this book as Brooks’ warm-up exercise for World War Z: he’s laying out the rules of his universe here, getting a feel for it.
But this book, like I said, doesn’t quite know what it wants to be.
World War Z knows.
A bit disappointed, honestly. Too much repetition.
Half realistic survival guide (with a zombie twist), half fictional accounts of zombie outbreaks, this book is a mixed bag.For someone already as paranoid as myself, it's fairly depressing to have it hammered home just how much in the way of resources you need to truly be prepared for the end of the world.
Whilst I found a lot of useful survival info here, it did get a little dry in terms of reading material.The latter section, accounting for around one quarter of the book, is an interesting and extremely realistic account of various 'recorded attacks' throughout history, dating all the way from 60,000BC to 2002AD.
In my opinion, it seems as though Max Brooks compaired the Zombie virus to the AIDS virus.
I would love to read his new book World War Z.
I'm just saying, anyone who loves zombies should not read this book.
Maybe if I wasn't into zombies I wouldn't have felt it was so contradicting as poorly put together.
Maybe I would have just enjoyed it overall as a humorous zombie book.
Either way, I just hope I'm not as thrown off by World War Z as i was by Zombie Survival Guide.
Being that I believe there will, one day, be a zombie apocalypse, I find it pertinent to be informed and well-prepared.
Reading this book gives you the sense that you will be.
It also makes you paranoid as hell.
You'll begin to realize that there is no one perfect way to avoid/exterminate the zombies--there are pros and cons to every hideout, weapon, and means of travel.
The trick is finding your strengths (and those of the people who will be part of your "team") and choosing the options that will suit you best.
This is a great read and something every nerd will love.
A lot of trendy stuff, a lot of which just seemed to be corresponding to The Walking Dead more than anything else. I think this book could have been better, but fans of the zombie sub-genre will likely enjoy it more than I did... I'm more of a slasher film and nostalgic old-school horror kind of person than a zombie apocalyptic person. :)
24/25 Qs This was a good book, but it wasn't really on the same level as WWZ. This book was a lot different than I thought it would be. It is a FULL BLOWN SURVIVAL GUIDE! What weapons to use, where to go, what vehicles to use, and MUCH, MUCH, MORE! My favorite part was the second half where it goes over every recorded zombie attack. I definitely won't sleep well tonight because of some of the stories. If you liked WWZ or are interested in zombies, you will love this book.
