https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77378.The_Seven_Percent_Solution
Sherlock Holmes, John Watson, and Sigmund Freud join forces to deal with Holmes cocaine addiction, to rescue a woman, and possibly to prevent a giant European war.
To think that this is "the true story of Holmes' absence from Baker Street for those three years that he was gone" and that John Watson made up the two stories, namely The Final Solution and The Empty House to explain the absence is just too much, but a lovely story after all!
It brings back all we love about him and of his admiration and dedication to his friend Mr. Sherlock Holmes.
"Never let them say that." I loved it!!!It is the emotional responses written into the stories of Holmes and Watson that make me come back and read them over and over.
Here we learn that Holmes' addiction to Cocaine (a feature of the original stories) has caused him to become delusional.
Such a move might seem a little silly on Meyer's part; however, it works rather nicely.
Not at least until the last 30 pages.
Those last 30 pages are extremely exciting, involving a train chase and a fencing duel on top of the speeding train!
Even here, however, the book works and is just a splendid read.
I look forward to reading more of Meyer's Holmes stories - he has at least two others - and recommend that others do the same.
This was a very solid, very able Holmes pastiche.
I quite enjoyed the way Meyer captured Watson's voice as narrator, worked in multiple references to Arthur Conan Doyle's original canon, dealt with Holmes's cocaine addiction, uncovered the "true" story of Moriarty, and incorporated the historical figure of Sigmund Freud as a character in the story.
I definitely plan to read Meyer's other two Holmes novels.I clearly see how this novel informed Michael Dibdin's The Last Sherlock Holmes Story, which also focuses on Sherlock's cocaine addiction and its relationship to Moriarty.
Meyer's would have seemed more daring if I hadn't already read Dibdin.
نویسندهی بیشخصیت اومده برای اینکه یه داستان بنویسه آقامون، (شرلوک هلمز) رو کرده: عملی! آخه این درسته؟ این کار انسانیزاده؟ حالا ما که آدمها و طرفداران متعصبی نیستیم که بریزیم خیابون، در تمام شهرها و کشورهایی که باهاشون رابطه داریم تظاهرات خودجوش بکنیم و فریاد بزنیم و شعار بدیم: هیهات من الذله! جانم فدای شرلوکحالا خوبه ما از این دسته طرفداران نیستیم. اما آقای نویسنده! شما که این قطب عالم امکان رو کردید عملی! حداقل میاومدی یک داستان درست و حسابی مینوشتی که در اون به جای داستانگویی به مزخرفگویی نیفت
نویسنده‌ی بی‌شخصیت اومده برای این‌که یه داستان بنویسه آقامون، (شرلوک هلمز) رو کرده: عملی!
آخه این درسته؟ این کار انسانی‌زاده؟ حالا ما که آدمها و طرفداران متعصبی نیستیم که بریزیم خیابون، در تمام شهرها و کشورهایی که باهاشون رابطه داریم تظاهرات خودجوش بکنیم و فریاد بزنیم و شعار بدیم: هیهات من الذله!
جانم فدای شرلوکحالا خوبه ما از این دسته طرفداران نیستیم.
اما آقای نویسنده!
شما که این قطب عالم امکان رو کردید عملی!
حداقل می‌اومدی یک داستان درست و حسابی می‌نوشتی که در اون به جای داستان‌گویی به مزخرف‌گویی نیفتی.
نمی‌دونم نویسنده مرده‌ست، زنده‌ست.
اما فکر کنم پیر شده باشه.
Sigmund Freud cures Sherlock Holmes of his cocaine addiction, forces him to deal with his issues regarding Professor Moriarty, and gets involved in Holmes' case, complete with battle on the roof of a train. What more could you ask for?
Except for Sherlock Holmes and cocaine and Freud, the rest is all fuzzy.
50¢ at a book sale, and with my current love of Sherlockia, I couldn’t resist, even though I was pretty sure I would hate it.
(In case you’re curious, it was the one where Watson writes, “I believe it was in  Julius Caesar that  Shakespeare said…*” and Meyer’s footnote is simply, “*It’s not.”) However, this fannishness was I guess also part of what I objected to: I mean, it’s published fanfic, people!
LOL” Furthermore, it didn’t help that the mystery that pads out the book was just that…padding.
Dico "non ufficiale" perché, e chi ha letto il libro lo saprà già, non è la solita avventura scritta da sir Arthur Conan Doyle ma si tratta, diciamo così, di un "omaggio", datato 1974, alle gesta di Holmes e Watson di Nicholas Meyer, autore anche di un paio di episodi di "Star Trek" e, soprattutto, del bellissimo film "The Day After - Il giorno dopo".Straordinario, divertente (la folle corsa con il treno mi ha strappato più di un sorriso) e sorprendente il mondo in cui lo stesso Meyer ha preso spunto (e le citazioni non mancano) dai libri di Conan Doyle per costruire ed intessere questa nuova pseudo-trama sul celebre investigatore, sul suo fido assistente/amico e, soprattutto, su un nuovo ed illustre coprotagonista (l'unico realmente esistito) che avrà il delicato compito di salvare Sherlock Holmes dall'unico nemico in grado di sconfiggere il nostro eroe: la dipendenza dall'eroina.
Sherlock Holmes and the case of the deadly cocaine addiction!This was more of a novella than a novel, very short.
At first I didn't like it; it assumed you had obsessive Sherlockania information that you didn't necessarily have, and it seemed like cheap opportunism: let's analyze Sherlock!
But the book gets into the realm that's always been kind of a crux in mystery novels: physical clues vs.
The end was a chase scene pointing toward the events of WWI and felt kind of tacked on.
So I'll sum up with a four and note that your mileage may vary greatly depending on how much Sherlock Holmes you've been reading lately.
Holmes throughout remains too unusual and too superhuman to understand, though Watson and other characters try.Another commonality of the post-Doyle stories is the inclusion of famous historical figures and events.
Sherlock Holmes is far better traveled and even more famous in these novels than he ever was in the Doyle's short stories.
Her ties to the Kaiser could still have been part of the plot without the silly trip to Vienna.So if you like Sherlock Holmes stories, keep in mind that Nicholas Meyer's novel is flawed.
Besides which: SPOILER*********He kind of halfway tries to make it fit with the story (Final Problem/Empty House) as written, by saying that Watson wrote those to cover the real story (cocaine induced dementia, soul-searching holiday).However, if you're going to write Moriarty out of the Holmes canon, you better have a damn good story to replace it, and he doesn't.*Nitpicky Sherlockian Alert*ALSO: It doesn't work.
If he were to write a story to "cover" Holmes' disappearance, he could have written anything!
Meyer says that Watson wrote it, but never why, other then to 'cover' the true facts and because Holmes makes a joke on the last page.
To his credit, Meyer not only disregards the unwritten rule that modern Sherlock Holmes stories must feature Moriarty as either the main villain or in an ominous cameo, he goes one better and first introduces and then relegates the incongruous villain to his rightful place.I always thought that “The Final Problem” and “The Empty House” felt the least Holmes-like of all of Doyle’s original stories.
Despite Doyle’s liking for “The Final Problem”, I would venture that if all Holmes stories were like it, most people today would never have heard of Sherlock Holmes.Meyer devises an ingenious explanation for how such an incompatible character as Moriarty ever intruded into the canon, and how Watson came to write a story so jarringly different from his other accounts of the great detective.
I really love the original Sherlock Holmes stories by Conan Doyle, and I love reading anything that extends that universe.
Kind of like how the Conan Doyle original The Five Pips references racism in the U.S, and kind of pulls us out of the illusion of a closed Holmes universe, Meyers’ book connects Holmes with Freud.
All in all, a great read, and I would definitely recommend it if you like Sherlock Holmes, and again I can’t thank Sil enough for recommending it to me!Trigger Warnings: Drug use, depression, brief discussion of psychosis

For those die-hard Holmes fans, this novel takes place in the time period between Conan Doyle's "The Final Problem" and "The Adventure of the Empty House", in which Homes supposedly battled Professor Moriarty to the death but "miraculously" survived.
(Conan Doyle, tired of writing the series, encountered much rage from jilted fans who hated to see Holmes perish in "The Final Problem", so, by popular demand, he brought him back to life...) Meyer cleverly attributes the novel to Dr. John Watson and explains its remarkable "discovery" in the preface.
A fun, quick read that is a good companion piece to the afore-mentioned Conan Doyle stories.
While no one can replace Arthur Conan Doyle, this homage by Nicholas Meyer is a fairly good attempt. It hits all the right notes -- with guest spots by favorites such as Professor Moriarty, Mycroft Holmes and Tobey the tracking dog -- as well as raises the stakes by adding the celebrity Dr. Sigmund Freud to the mix, which despite seeming to be inspired by television teams-ups like Scooby Doo Meets Batman, actually works fairly well in the story.
Apocrifo? Stento a crederci. Onore a Meyer per questa perla che avrei ingenuamente e senza indugi attribuito a Sir Conan Doyle.Ben scritto, nessun particolare trascurato, magistrale trattazione del rapporto Holmes/Watson, brillante introduzione del personaggio di Freud all'interno del romanzo.Ho approvato tutto, tranne la scelta più o meno azzardata di mettere eccessivamente in luce l'interiorità di Holmes.
كتاب اكثر من رائع استطاع الكاتب نيكولاس ماير اخذ جانب جديد من شارلوك هولمز و قصته العظيمة ( المعركة الاخيرة )و قام بتحويلها الى حالة جديدة و مختلفة تماما بدون ان يخرب او يعبث بالشخصية نفسهاو اعتقد ان هذا كان هو اكبر تحدي بالنسبة للكاتب و الذي استطاع تخطيه باحترافية عاليةو من ابرز ما في الكتاب ايضا هو ابراز جانب نفسي جديد لشارلوك هولمز لم يتم الخوض في من قبلكتاب يستخق القراءة فعلا و تجربة جديدة و مختلفة تماما عن مغامرات هولمز السابقة (((( شارلوك هولمز كما لم تراه من قبل ))))
As a big fan of BBC Sherlock, I've been interested in everything Sherlockian in the past few years, so I settled down to listen to the audiobook of this one.This book is written in a simulation of Dr. Watson's voice from the original stories, which is to say it reads like the 1800's even though it's from 1974.
In an effort to cure him before he kills himself, Watson and Mycroft Holmes work together to trick Sherlock into a trip to Vienna, where a young doctor named Freud promises a cure from drug addiction.
Uma das melhores aventuras apócrifas de Sherlock Holmes e que serviu de base para minha releitura do personagem no conto A Aventura do Americano Audaz, junto com o romance Moriarty, de John Gardner. O envolvimento de Sherlock Holmes com os prenúncios da Primeira Guerra Mundial e suas consultas - e consequente "cura" - com Sigmund Freud fazem desse um romance imperdível para os seguidores da obra canônica de Conan Doyle.
I saw the movie many years ago and remember loving it. The book was OK, nothing special for me.Watson and Mycroft maneuver Holmes into treatment for cocaine addiction. The doctor who is working to cure him is Freud. While in Vienna a case comes up, dragging Holmes from his drug free depression and putting him back to work.
There are obviously loads of Sherlock stories and novels written by writers other than Conan Doyle. This one, guest starring Sigmund Freud, is one of the better ones I've read. There's so much history going on and so many world stage figures who are contemporaneous with Holmes that such a Sherlock-meets-celebrity works could (and probably do) fill a shelf.
I think this book is one of the closest writing styles to Arthur Conan Doyle I've read in the Holmes pastiches. I found both Holmes and Watson true to character and thought the situations and journey to the conclusion well done.
عندما تستبعد كافة الاحتمالات الممكنه فأن الباقي مهما بلغت غرابته لا بد ان يكون الحقيقه .اذا اتيح للبشرية الوقت الكافي لجاهدت ذلك النصف المرعب من نفسها . مع هذا الكتاب سوف نسأل انفسنا : هل يوجد حقاً فرق بين ان يكون الشخص محقق جنائي وبين ان يكون دكتور نفسي؟
Fun read. Sherlock Holmes going through rehab led by Sigmund Freud turns into a quaint mystery. Thrilling well written ending. I enjoyed this book and would recommend this tale to all fans of Sherlock Holmes and Doctor Watson.
A re-writing of significant parts of the Doyle canon, The Seven-Per-Cent Solution nonetheless mimics Doyle with a completeness that furnishes both its great strengths and its major faults.As regards the latter, some aspects of Meyer's pastiche may be a matter of taste.
(hide spoiler)]This said, the book is well worth reading, and succeeds in that regard despite its faults much as Doyle's stories often did: through atmosphere, character and action.
The Seven-Per-Cent Solution, for all the failings of its ambitions in terms of plot and "fixing" the canon, is nonetheless an enjoyable story on its own; it is indeed a classic page-turner.
For more information on this project, please click here.Review posted on my blog The Writer's Library.What started out as a simple novel about helping Holmes to battle addiction quickly turned into a much larger struggle and I have to say that it captivated me.
Seriously, did this book go through no editing process?
My other little complaint is that it took this story too long to get to the actual case that it followed because it spent so much time on Holmes' addiction.
The way Watson cared for Holmes reminded me a lot of John from Sherlock and his narration was a joy to read.
Both books deal with a Holmes whose mental health becomes seriously suspect.Watson’s ‘lost’ manuscript reveals that this tale was not published in the good doctor’s lifetime because it actually proved that neither ‘The Final Problem’ nor ‘The Adventure of the Empty House’ were true, but figments of his imagination!
The twist, revealed while Holmes is under hypnosis, explains why the great detective should have begun his cocaine habit, and it is so surprising to Watson that he vows never to mention it to his friend; another reason why he refrained from publishing the work.An entertaining addition to the vast collection of Holmes pastiches.
Of course, Doyle was desperately trying to kill off his famous detective so he could write what he regarded as more serious fiction but the reading public just wouldn't allow him to do it!Even if you're not a Holmes fan, this book is delightful.
I admit, upon re-reading it as an adult that I agree with the reviewers that the first half of the book is much stronger than the second and even when I was a child I wished more attention had been given to Holmes' treatment for his addiction to cocaine versus the mystery which is sort of tacked on to the second half.
