https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11890.The_Wapshot_Chronicle
Mostly the story is of two brothers interspersed with excerpts from a diary kept by their father that chronicles his life and gives us family secrets.
Cheever had a brother to whom he said he was “ungainly attached.” He grew up in a New England seaport (Quincy, Mass.) with ship captain ancestors.
In the story his mother becomes the support for the family by opening a gift shop in the derelict ship; in real life Cheever’s mother did the same in a failed shoe factory.
His daughter Susan Cheever chronicled this family life in her own memoir in 2001, Home Before Dark For 1954 it contains what would have been considered graphic sex for that time.
… we might climb the stairs and pry into things of more pertinence. There is Leander’s bureau drawer, where we find a withered rose – once yellow – and a wreath of yellow hair, the butt end of a Roman candle that was fired at the turn of the century, a boiled shirt on which an explicit picture of a naked woman is drawn in red ink, a necklace made of champagne corks and a loaded revolver.4  starsJohn Cheever (1912-1982) sold a short story to The New Yorker in 1935, the first of many. His reputati
Wiki notes that many of his works also express “a nostalgia for a vanishing way of life, characterized by abiding cultural traditions and a profound sense of community” in the smaller towns along this coast, “as opposed to the alienating nomadism of modern suburbia”.The Wapshot ChronicleBeing a chronicle, we might surmise that the novel tells of “important historical events”; but this would be ironic, for the events told in the third person narrative have significance only for the characters living them, and a few friends and neighbors in the mythical town of St. Botolphs, located just inland of the coast mentioned above.
A telling fork in the chronicle results from Honora unfortunately witnessing a happening of sexual nature involving one of the sons.But that previously mentioned Cheever theme of “nostalgia for a vanishing way of life” was what I soon sensed myself as I began reading the novel.
When things change for the Wapshots later in the novel mixed with odd little episodes here and there, including Leander's diary entries which are obscure to say the least, I am not sure Cheever knew how to handle them clearly, but this is generally only a small niggle, as his strength lies in the time frame of his writing which he nails to a tee, not only the syntax but by how Cheever framed the story, which I have to say is so easy on the eye.
I think you may effortlessly guess to what category The Wapshot Chronicle does belong.
They lived on a farm two miles below the village and had canoed upriver before dawn when the night air made the water of the river feel tepid as it rose around the canoe paddle and over their hands.”Be pleased to meet some of the heroes.Some lives are straight and purposeful like a flight of a bullet and some are weird and unpredictable like a patchwork…“Leander would never take his sons aside and speak to them about the facts of life, even although the continuation of Honora’s numerous charities depended upon their virility.
It's gonna happen sometime, people, no matter how you may dread it.
Yes, I am referring to my long-planned, heavily-unanticipated, as-yet-unwritten, irritatingly irrelevant monograph on John Cheever, wherein I single-handedly return him to his proper place in the first rank of American novelists.
Due in equal parts to  Seinfeld  and postmodernism, Cheever has become little more than a punch line: a sad symbol of dated postwar suburban cocktail-party angst… well, think again, bitches!
There will be more to come from me in this vein, I promise.
Oh yes, I promise.
Hobgoblin company of love always with us."― John Cheever, The Wapshot ChronicleThe Wapshot Chronicle is a twin Bildungsroman of sons Moses and Coverly, framed by the letters, journaling, and loneliness of their father Leander.
Cheever fills his novel with dominating mothers, idiosyncratic and co-dependent guardians, changeable wives and costly lovers.
The trinity of Wapshot men, float throughout Cheever's novel in a wayward, rudderless boat.
Their lives are constantly taking on water and they seem destined to be blown further from the shore by the dominant humor of the nearest strong-willed female.The characters in The Wapshot Chronicle were amazing.
Cheever's satire and ribald humor constantly bit this reader in his lusty-for-good-literature ass.
Particularly when the cover does not accurately portray what the book will give you.
Halfway through the book, not yet understanding that ambivalent feelings about one's sexual identity is in fact the book's central focus, I exploded, saying '"For God's sake, doesn't a person instinctively know when sex is good?" I am quite simply the wrong reader for this book.
It should be noted, the book looks at men’s rather than women’s bisexuality.
The central failure of the book is that the author failed to make it possible for me to empathize with the characters' ambivalent feelings.
“Era más admirada entre las señoras que entre los hombres y puede que la esencia de su belleza fuese el desencanto (Leander la había engañado), pero ella había puesto todos los recursos de su sexo en esa infidelidad y había sido recompensada con tal aire de nobleza ofendida y luminosa visión, que algunas de sus partidarias suspiraron al verla atravesar la plaza, como si por su cara vieran pasar una vida.”
One chapter might be following one theme with a distinct writing style and suddenly you are inside the voice of Leander Wapshot who tells his story in short phrases meant to be his memoir.
At the end of the book, there is a scene of destruction following which the characters are suddenly back on track, as if Cheever got himself into a tight space and didn't know how to get to the end without destroying what came before.
But because Cheever is not a writing workshop student, his lack of concern for rules makes for an exuberant read.
Moses and Coverly Wapshot, dissolute Leander's two sons, have to make their way in the America of the mid-Twentieth Century armed with the airs and attitudes of Nineteenth-Century New England.
"St. Botolphs is like a pumpkin pie," says their elderly aunt Honora of their home town, "no upper crust." But there is limited room in St. Botolphs for the two boys, so they set out on their seriocomic adventures.
THE WAPSHOT CHRONICLE is a comedy, and often a darn funny one at that in spite of (or perhaps in juxtaposition with) John Cheever's well-recognized tendency toward brief outbursts of anguish.
Waspy New England families of a bygone era?
Cheever never spells it out really, he doesn't give us access to their innermost contemplations, but by the end, the puzzle pieces start to fit together and you see why everyone is alternately miserable and satisfied.
Even though my girlfriend thinks the ending is terribly depressing, I find it to be heartbreakingly bittersweet, and sometimes that's what I want from a book.
Something so emotionally confusing that your heart soars and sinks, and I think that's what Cheever accomplishes in this wonderful surprise of a book!
„Crack your skull before you weep." Pokušavam da sročim utisak o ovoj knjizi, ali jedino što mi pada na pamet jeste da je ova knjiga kao da najlepši dan u godini provedeš zatvoren u sobi. Jeste, sve je divno-bajno-krasno. Ali kroz prozor. Zatvoren. Prilično mali. Podrumski. I onda postane potpuno svejedno to što je napolju oaza lepih stvari, kada je sve što vidiš fleka od masnih prstiju na staklu. Čiverova proza je možda i najbolja koju sam sreo. Rame uz rame stoji sa Nabokovim (od dobrih prozi
Pokušavam da sročim utisak o ovoj knjizi, ali jedino što mi pada na pamet jeste da je ova knjiga kao da najlepši dan u godini provedeš zatvoren u sobi.
I onda postane potpuno svejedno to što je napolju oaza lepih stvari, kada je sve što vidiš fleka od masnih prstiju na staklu.
Ukrašena dosta, svakako, ali milina je čitati i potom izgovarati rečenice, toliko su prepune melodijom i onako lepotom na kilogram da često ostavljaju bez teksta.
Prilično sam siguran da nikada nisam više rečenica podvukao nego ovde.
To je taj lepi prozor o kome pričam.A onda dodje sve ostalo, tojest unutrašnjost prostorije.
There are two aging/elderly female characters who are single, wealthy, use that wealth to wield power, and wish to live in a chaste world.
Their wealth and power and wishes are not mine.There is quite a bit of lusting going on here and often it is fulfilled.
Cheever is especially humorous when the lusting is only wishful.
I don't know if "nostalgia" is quite the right word, but this world was certainly vanishing when this was first published and is probably now gone.
I expect that many in my generation, and the few of the prior generation still around, will feel Cheever is familiar.
I was hesitant to begin reading Cheever (I have no idea why I believed his fiction wouldn't interest me), and even more skeptical about starting with a novel rather than his more well-regarded short stories.
You will meet a girl by that monument on the corner, buy her some dinner in that restaurant across the street and be taken home by her to that apartment in the distance.
It is only a question of days before the part begins, you think, although it must in fact have begun as soon as you entered the scene with your suitcase."Cheever's prose, second person or not, is filled with this sort of density and richness.
Parts of the story are told through Leander's diary, though other chapters are written as flashes, like pieces of short stories.
This is Cheever's first novel, being a short story writer first so an entire novel being written in that format is not particularly surprising.
It felt stagnant and I lost touch of the Wapshots and their gripings.Still, I hear that his short stories are better, so eventually I will get to that ginormous collection I have that I keep putting off in fear that I just won't like Cheever.
And maybe - just maybe - I might someday also get around to reading the second book, The Wapshot Scandal.
Tre le tante cose che mi hanno colpito della sua scrittura, ho notato sin dalle prime pagine una piccola ossessione nel descrivere gli odori, squadernando al lettore varie immagini di una specie di catalogo olfattivo.Questo amore clandestino e impossibile tra descrizione e olfatto ben si riassume in questa frase a inizio romanzo: "La casa è abbastanza facile da descrivere, ma cosa si può dire di un giorno d’estate in un vecchio giardino?
Zio Pipino MarzapaneNei confronti di questo libro avevo un pregiudizio negativo, la copertina orrenda che mi ha respinta per anni e un pregiudizio positivo, dovuto alla lettura precedente di Il nuotatore, bellissimo racconto.Cheever racconta di questa famiglia del New England, degna rappresentante di un’aristocrazia naturale statunitense: arrivati dall’Inghilterra nel 1630, sono bianchi, belli, eleganti, sportivi, esperti di sport nautici.
Viene enfatizzata l’orgogliosa eccentricità dei personaggi, ci sono varie donne che declinano questa caratteristica nei toni dell’autoritarismo, dell’esibizione da ricca molto becera, della personalità multipla (Honora – Justina – Melissa).
E.g. this whale of a sentence:"The attic was a fitting place for these papers, for this barny summit of the house--as big as a hayloft--with its trunks and oars and tillers and torn sails and broken furniture and crooked chimneys and hornets and wasps and obsolete lamps spread out at one's feet like the ruins of a vanished civilization and with an extraordinary spiciness in the air as if some eighteenth-century Wapshot, drinking Madeira and eating nuts on a sunny beach and thinking about the passing of the season, had tried to capture the heat and light in a flask or hamper and had released his treasure in the attic, for here was the smell of summer without its vitality; here seemed to be the lights and sounds of a summer preserved."The book's probably worth it just for stuff like that, but unfortunately it doesn't have that much else going for it, because half its characters are crazy.
What is this dream & will you be happy would be a decent premise for this novel.The farm outside Boston with its simple & idyllic lifestyle is juxtapositioned against the big bad cities & world of New York, Washington & new housing developments.
The wonderful bitchy description of where all the wedding invitations end up - the addresses are correct, but time have changed & the old families are no longer able to support the great houses & they have moved away, to be replaced by various societies, old people's homes and so on.The characters are overall, well fleshed out, altho I felt Moses & Coverly a bit thin.
However, the mastery of character building shows in Cheever's women.
One of my favorite vignettes was when Leander paid a call on Honora.
"There isn't any" Honora said.
Then they continue with Leander being obliging and Honora being contrary.
"Feel that refreshing breeze" she said.
"Yes" Leander said.
"Yes" Leander said.
(There was no breeze at all.)  "Sit in the other chair" Honora said.
Although," she said as  Leander obediently changed from one chair to the other, "you won't be able to see out of the  window from there and perhaps you were better off where you were." Leander smiled, remembering that to talk with her, even when she was a young woman, had made  him feel bludgeoned.
Meh. That is all the emotion with which this book left me.
I don't mean that in a good way either.Cheever is not a novelist, and it is quite apparent.
He is a short story writer who wanted to jump ship for novels, but this book is nothing more than a short story that is about 200 pages too long.
I got bored more times than I can count.Aside from that, he is a good writer.
The book flows well, and he is has a way with words.
Unfortunately that doesn't translate well into a way with plot.
Perhaps my favorite passage in the book is this sequence, in which Mrs. Wapshot gets to know a young woman currently convalescing at the Wapshot home after an accident; it beautifully underlines Cheever's gift for dialogue: "So then you went to secretarial school?""Well, first I went to Europe, I went to Europe last summer with some other girls.""Did you like it?""You mean Europe?" "Yes.""Oh, I thought it was divine.
The only words I know are words like divine and of course they don't use those words on exams and so I never understood the questions.
I wish I knew more words.""I see," Mrs. Wapshot said.
Written with such flair, we get to know many of the Wapshots at a deep level and wonder if we haven’t met them all personally at some of our own family gatherings.The Wapshots face birth and death, financial crises and recoveries, sexual abstinence and experimentation and deal with the matters of life in their individual manners.The eldest son of Leander, Moses is most like his father and travels to Washington, DC to prove himself to his Aunt Honora.
Uno scatolone di vecchie fotografie.L’odore e il disordine sono le principali sensazioni che il romanzo mi ha lasciato al termine della lettura.Gli odori (ma anche i sapori) che nel primo ‘900 pervadono i paesi costieri del New England, sono rievocati dall’autore con meticolosa precisione, nella loro composita sostanza, densa di multiple percezioni sensoriali, profumi, afrori sgradevoli, acidità, esalazioni reali o immaginate dalla materia degli oggetti, tutta un’atmosfera che richiama ripetutamente l’essenza di quel mondo e dei suoi abitanti.Per averne un’idea basta analizzare uno qualsiasi fra i brani, citati da tanti commenti, in cui a profumi stravaganti ma pur sempre razionalmente immaginabili (“radice di giaggiolo”, “sapone da toletta”, “zuppa di acetosella”) si mescola un componente (”… copie del Nuovo Testamento rilegate in pelle morbida”) impossibile da percepire col solo olfatto ma estremamente suggestivo per la nostra fantasia!
John Cheever is best known for his short stories, but his first novel won the National Book Award in 1958.
The Wapshot family has lived for generations in a New England village which began as a sailing port.
By the time of the novel, it is a dying town and the fading family lives mostly for tradition.
Leander Wapshot, the current head of the family, likes to fish and take out the SS Topaze, a decrepit old launch, picking up passengers from the train in the next small town and ferrying them across the bay to an amusement park.
I tried reading The Wapshot Chronicle for the first time during one of my listless summers home from college, and somehow couldn't get into it.10+ years later, I finished it, and I did like it.
I liked the archival detail of childhood memory that Cheever explores, and the lazy-summer-by-the-sea day vibe of the novel, and I felt a certain love for the Gothic cast of characters, and the fetishization of antiquity prevalent in places on the decline.
The Wapshot Chronicle was a fine book, but it was nowhere near as transcendent as Cheever's little masterpieces.
Love all of Cheever’s short stories; have never really liked any of his novels. This one wandered too much for my taste. It seemed as if Cheever could not decide whether he wanted to tell you everything or nothing at all. I found myself wishing the book had been focused on just one of the three main Wapshot men (Leander, Moses, Coverly) and the various women in their respective lives. Combining all three and superfluous relatives and characters made for a general narrative mess. I did enjoy Leander’s staccato style, however; it punctuated the tedium nicely.
Some shakeups at home lead to them finally getting properly injected into the modern American bloodstream, after a car crash victim upsets the ruling order of the house.
Things get considerably less interesting once we leave the little village of St. Botolph’s (Cheever is great at spinning tales of small-town eccentricity ) for a more generalized rack-and-ruin narrative, following the two sons through a series of Odyssean trials, eventually placing them in two very different worlds: Coverly slogs through the modern American emotional wasteland, menaced by a depressed wife, adulterous neighbors and a homosexual buddy, while Moses (gifted with a much better storyline) ends up pushed even further into futility, trapped in a macabre marriage in a crumbling Poe-style mansion full of forged works of art.
I bought the book because I've loved Cheever's short fiction that I've read and my edition has a saucy, Mad Men inspired cover I couldn't resist.
But I can also appreciate them being a product of their time (though the grotesque ignorance of the chapter in here about "homosexual activities" was still really difficult to stomach.) Whether Cheever intended it or not, many of the Wapshot men come off as wet blankets who go along to get along and shrug their shoulders while the women are powerful and assertive.
It's too bad Cheever didn't realize this.
One you play usually as an adult, and each hand has an effect on the following hand.
Then there are the games you play, usually as a kid, where each hand stands completely on its own.
If you're not really involved in the hand you're playing/chapter you're reading, there's no reason to pay any attention whatsoever, because the following chapter/hand is a whole new beginning.
This is a silly analogy, I know, but it's really how I felt reading the book.
Half the time I just couldn't care and would rather have been watching TV.
Half the time I was really into it.
