https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7792264-det-fors-mte-for-r
Alligevel virker det som om jeg har læst den her historie tusind gange før.
Det er virkelig en skolebog: God bog, vigtig bog, men også lidt for gammel og ikke specielt relevant.
Som et stykke Danmarkshistorie er den også relevant.De evindelige gentagelser er irriterende, og når Scherfig ikke kan modstå fristelsen til at skære sine moraler ud i pap bliver det lidt tåkrummende.Men hvis du er i humør til lidt: "Da bedstefar var dreng, med alle de andre drenge og lussingerne sad løse og drengestregerne var fatale." Så vil jeg klart anbefale den.
Selvom den såkaldte sorte skole for længst er afskaffet, er temaerne og budskaberne almengyldige, hvorfor det stadig i dag er muligt at identificere sig med eleverne og deres frygt for foråret, som betyder eksamenstid:Man læser og læser med rødrandede øjne" [...] "Man spiser i tavshed, mens man tænker efter og repeterer.
Og man læser og læser [...] Det er forår.
Men man har ikke tid til at tage sig af foråret.
Man har forsømt hvert eneste forår i sit liv.En ting er i hvert fald sikkert: Jeg forsømmer ikke en lejlighed til at læse Det forsømte forår.
However, the novel takes a turn in terms of focus, and although it keeps its audience reminded of a killer being out there, the crime apect is toned down completely, which, of course, serves the other main aspect of the novel, namely the impact of fear and suppression.
it creates people afraid of living life.What keeps this book from scoring top grades, though, is the lack of being completely able to relate to the situation.
In many ways, this is a piece that works well as a historical fiction novel, but the situation and the pain of the characters is not always relatable, even though many facets are.
This novel is a Danish classic from 1940, a satirical murder mystery about a teacher who gets murdered by one of his students.
The teacher is such a sadistic man that he almost deserves his fate.Stolen Spring takes place around 1920, so it must be hard for younger Americans to relate to this satirical novel from an exotic Scandinavian country, right?
I've taught it twice at Portland State University and the students really related to it.
Maybe it's because sadistic teachers are common at most schools - especially latin teachers?
But the American version is worth reading no matter what.
Scherfigs "Det forsømte Foraar" er en udødelig klassiker, som alle bør læse, hvis de da ikke allerede, helst af lyst, har gjort det – eller hvad værre, men nok mere sandsynligt, er: er blevet tvangsindlagt til det i skolen.
De er ikke uundværlige, men undertiden overflødige, og heri består – tror jeg – også bogens succes: at den er så ligefrem, så lettilgængelig, at den ubesværet kan læses og forstås (dengang som nu) af alle og enhver.
Or, as Sherfig was quoted as saying, “…The school’s task is to foster the particular characteristics that are desirable in a society which uses the unrestrained struggle of wild animals in nature as a model for human freedom.”But really, it's quite funny...The novel opens on an event some twenty-five years before the majority of the book’s action begins—-the suspicious, but unaccounted-for death of Head Teacher Blomme, who literally beat Latin into his unfortunate pupils at the unnamed ‘gray school’ which centers the story’s action.
An easy to read, easy to follow book that through humour takes you on a journey to a school in Copenhagen almost a hundred years ago. Without getting too attached to the characters, one can easily feel the humiliation and pain the students go through in their daily routine. I wouldn't call it a humorous or a murder mystery book. Instead, it is a tragic book that makes you think about your life and what you can and could have been.
Den er så dejlig Scherfigsk. Jeg hører hans stemme, mens jeg læser. Sætningerne med opremsninger og som starter med og. De skal læses med betoning og langsomt. Gentagelserne er med til at sætte tempoet ned. Hold nu op. Det er 40 år siden jeg læste den sidst, i mellemtiden har jeg set filmen, og nu altså læst den igen. Den er stadig god. Gad vide om den stadig læses i skolen?
3.5 stars.
Jeg er stadig vild med denne bog, skønt jeg har læst den mange gange. Den er så velskrevet og karakteristikken af personerne er helt fantastisk - den er stadig god at læse i 2018
3.7
- read for school
I am also not a big reader of Danish authors so I was expecting this to be a bad experience.
This might not be a novel I will advocate to every person who asks me what to read but I will say the book started out interesting and it was not a boring novel to read as such...
To begin with I believe this was a good rhythm but grew very tired of it toward the end.2) As a Student, I could understand what Hans Scherfig meant but I could not feel story line.
Apparently since its release, this novel has been required reading for most schools in Denmark.The novel is marked with a very simple writing style.
Scherfig’s language in writing about sometimes horrid instances is strangely comical and proves to be a significant strength in the execution of the story.
Overall, the novel succeeds in being a story that mixes opposing thematic elements that can be in once instantly tragic and in the same moment be totally hilarious.
This causes its supposed shocking and tragic elements to not always be entirely funny but rather seem dated and irrelevant.
I read this Danish novel when I was a grad student in Scandinavian Studies, but so many years have passed that I really didn't remember it.
Scherfig traces the lives of a group of students at a harsh Danish private school in the 1920s, starting with a flashback at a class reunion 25 years after graduation.
The situation in the school seems so grim that it is a wonder that all of the students didn't murder all of the teachers.
Scherfig manages to inject wit and clever perceptions into this short "coming of age" novel, which has become a classic of Danish literature.
Jeg er nok en af de få danske teenagers, som har læst denne bog af egen fri vilje udenfor skolen.
Det fortryder jeg ikke.
Efter alle referencerne fra Mathiesen i latintimerne, blev jeg nu nødt til at læse denne forrygende bog, skrevet af Hans Scherfig.
Jeg var vild med bogens opbygning, og indledning, som mest af alt mindede om en krimi, hvilket jeg dog ikke syntes den var.
Den havde den lette, meget objektive, tone i sproget, som jeg holder meget af.
Alt i alt, er jeg meget glad for, at jeg læste bogen udenfor skolen, eftersom bøgerne altid bliver ødelagt for mig af det.
I missed a little excitement and tension both in the middle part and in the ending. I honestly thought it was one of those books that would have a surprising non expected ending, but it turned out it was not. A little disappointing, though the writing and wording was absolutely amazing all the way through. A truly classic, that every Danish student go through reading in school - most hate, few adore. I see the meaning and the beauty in this book.
An important piece of literature that any person related to Denmark should've read. You can't tell from the language that it's written in 1940, however that being said, it's not a book that I will think about very much, I guess. Its easy language is both a strength and a weakness - a strength, because most people will be able to readand understand it, a weakness because it doesn't leave an impression on the reader.
I finally finished this fucking book. I read it for school and didn't have much interest, although I can tell that if I'd been less against reading it and cared more about the characters I would have given it a higher rating. It was fine. I enjoyed some parts of it, other parts I found very boring.
Det meste kan læses som en måske nøgtern skildring af skoletilværelsen i 1920erne - 1930erne, smukt rammet ind af et 25 års studenterjubilæum.Med den foragt for selvbestaltede autoriteter, som Scherfig udviser i bogen, er det ganske paradoksalt at han hele sit voksne liv var overbevist stalinist.
I loved it to bits. It was a mandatory read in school and I'd been looking forward to it since my teacher had talked about it for years. 4 stars because Scherfig keeps writing 'and then' in the beginning of half of his sentenced and it irritates me.
I didn't really like this book, but we were forced to read it in school.I'm sure there's some kind of divine intervention in the book - a hidden message, which speaks every teenagers case, but i can't really see the whole connection.
I would have liked this book if it hadn't been for one thing, I couldn't tell the characters a part. The names became names in a sea of names and I had to continuely go back and forth to remind myself on what character was which. :/
Review: https://literarywordfall.wordpress.co...
Great book, yada yada. F'real. Check it out.
Satirical novel about the awful conditions in Danish colleges in the 1920s.
I so didn't like this book, but was forced to read it in school 3 years ago in the ninth grade.
Det Forsømte Forår har stadig sin berettigelse, særligt når snakken går på karakterræs og tanker om det dannede individ.
Not a mystery novel (I originally thought it was a "whodunnit". But it was an interesting criticism of Danish school system in 1905. I enjoyed the wit in cynicism.
