https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/204344.Lincoln_and_His_Generals
Williams writes in his preface that the reason for this is that the incompetent generals were problems for Lincoln, forcing him to have closer command relationships with them, while he had to interfere very little with the moves of more effective generals.The book is not focused on a speedy narrative or a specific story but rather turns attention to strategy and those who made it.
Lincoln wrote some wonderfully pithy telegrams, like the one to Grant as he was flanking Lee's army down to Petersburg ("Hold on with a bulldog grip, and chew and choke as much as possible").Williams provides an interesting discussion of the Second Battle of Manassas, where McClellan failed to send reinforcements to Pope, while Halleck, as General-in-Chief, refused to take control of the situation, allowing McClellan to do as he pleased.
The next chapter looks at Fremont in the West and McClellan in the East as self-professed men of destiny, while the next five chapters focus on Lincoln’s troubled relationship with McClellan and his efforts at prodding McClellan to advance, while also discussing the failures of generals like Banks, McDowell, and Pope, the problems of cooperation between Halleck and Buell before Halleck’s rise to the position of General-in-chief, and the early successes of Grant.
Having been very favorably impressed by his Huey Long biography and having this earlier book by him on the shelf, I picked up Williams' Lincoln and His Generals immediately, reading it in two days.
While good, Lincoln is not as excellent as the Long book, Williams' writing abilities having apparently improved substantially during the years between their dates of composition.
Generals Grant and Sherman also come across well (unlike virtually every other senior officer in the GAR), but even Grant himself, after being named supreme commander, was, in Williams' opinion, often correctly overruled by his presidential superior.As stated, I read this because of the Huey Long book.
Good discussion of the development of modern command structure
Though many may disagree with some of his conclusions about how effective Lincoln was in this role, few, after reading this book, would dispute the fact that it is a well written and reasoned account of the topic, and that it is an important contribution both to Civil War and Lincoln studies.William's views Lincoln as a genius - a man, who came into office with no military knowledge, yet had the flexibility of mind to adapt and learn from his mistakes to guide his country to victory through its greatest wartime crisis.
Williams clearly holds Lincoln in the highest esteem in his book and in using these terms of speculation, always errors on the side of making Lincoln look his best.
Williams presents Lincoln as the ultimate micro-manager (probably a term not used when this book was written) and as the supreme commander calling every little troop movement through out the war.
Even Grant is not held in the esteem that most modern authors place on him and Sherman.For those looking for a Civil War book on tactics and troop movement, this isn't it.
All in all, a bit disappointing for me in how the author approaches Lincoln and ultimately Grant and Sherman in the book.
I think this is an under-appreciated book in the Lincoln cannon.
It's not concentrated on flashy narratives or dramatic events.
He moves slow through the events of the war that moved slow, concentrating an overwhelming amount of attention to McClellan.
We get introduced to characters, like Grant, who will play a bigger role later in the war but he doesn't give into the temptation to be diverted too soon.
He lets them stay in the shadows as the story ripens.
There are other books that fill that void well.
He let's you sit in the tension of the wars gloomy years.
It's an honest and absorbing book.
On the NY Times Bestseller List the week I was born (for that Shelfari group challenge.) This was an interesting look at Lincoln's role in the military conduct of the war, especially before Grant took the top command.
The author spends much time explaining the problems with McClellan et al.
I haven't read much US history since high school, and always preferred political to military history, but this book shows clearly that the two cannot be separated, even if that was not exactly the author's intent.
Mr. Williams gives an insightful glance into the relationships between President Lincoln and his generals during the Civil War. The focus of the book is mainly on the generals that most frustrated the Commander In Chief, those with cases of 'the slows' or those that constantly asked for supplies and reinforcements and yet could never entirely be ready to engage the Confederates.
The tone of the book is that of a lecture, but Mr. Williams uses language that any layperson could understand in describing the strategy employed by the president and his generals, with military jargon explained.
My brother-in-law lent this book to me....we both are Civil War/Lincoln readers. This is an excellent read but only for those truly interested in the subject and the strategy that went into the Civil War battles. I learned so much from reading this book and the author was able to capture a side of Lincoln readers rarely see..... that of a brilliant war strategist and manager of military men with a variety of personality quirks and degrees of competence of leading men on the battlefield. I am very picky about non fiction and this one satisfied me immensely.
Williams provides what it still today the best study of Lincoln as commander-in-chief of the Union armies. The author's grasp of the political dimensions behind strategy and personnel issues makes it a rewarding read, and his fascinating judgments on individual commanders are mostly sound. One walks away from "Lincoln and His Generals" thankful that a man with such aptitude for command as Abraham Lincoln occupied the White House during those four crucial years.
Outstanding history of Lincoln's struggle to find a general who could competently execute his Civil War strategies. Read this book and you will acquire an even deeper appreciation for Lincoln's greatness (along with an appreciation for the utter incompetence of the first several generals in command of Union forces)
Really good view of the civil war from the lens of leadership and the creation of the modern role of the commander-in-chief and military organization. Good lessons in leadership even in non-military contexts as well.
Williams crafts an interesting Civil War narrative coming almost entirely from the perspective of Lincoln as a military commander. He shows Lincoln had a skillful strategic mind, while at the same time demonstrating Lincoln's capacity for managing generals, and by proxy, people.
Interesting perspective of Lincoln's role during the War and his interactions with certain generals. I would recommend this book!
This really shows what went wrong with the Union Army until Grant. Lincoln's very rocky road as Commander-in-Chief and all the personalities involved.
Very nice review of the relationship of President Lincoln with his military generals and the ultimate forging of a mature civilian-military command structure.
Ended pretty aburptly, but had some really interesting insights.
A very interesting book with great theories on the life of Lincoln and argues for his tactics in leading the country and the military through the Civil War.
Good basic Civil War history.
For anyone wanting to understand Lincoln and the military strategy of the Civil War, this is the place to strt. It is a classic that I constantly refer to when teaching the Civil War
great reference book
