https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21119.The_Ethics_of_Ambiguity
She offers well thought-out and cogent responses to humanitarian quandaries like using force against others, sacrificing a few that more may live, sacrificing many so that one with a more hopeful future can live, and using means in the light of ends while making sure that the ends are present in-part with the means.However, while it seems that Beauvoir is presenting a hard-and-fast ethic—being concerned for others—the whole point of human existence is realizing our fundamental freedom from external influence that would condition or determine human beings’ actions or choices, and it is this which introduces ambiguity as the freedom from the restraint of rules, traditions, dogma or imperatives of any kind.
Favorite lines: (1) "My contemplation is an excruciation only because it is also a joy."(2) "The notion of ambiguity must not be confused with that of absurdity.
To declare that existence is absurd is to deny that it can ever be given a meaning; to say that it is ambiguous is to assert that its meaning is never fixed, that it must be constantly won.
Absurdity challenges every ethics; but also the finished rationalization of the real would leave no room for ethics; it is because man's condition is ambiguous that he seeks, through failure and outrageousness, to save his existence."I really should stop talking to dead philosophers.
As devastating to morale and value systems as the First World War had been, at the end of the Second Europe was lying stunned on its back wondering if anything had any value except possibly naked life itself, that genetically programmed need of all animals to hold onto life.This is part of the context in which Jean-Paul Sartre, Simone de Beauvoir, Albert Camus and a few others modified earlier ""Existentialisms" to produce an apparently radical sweeping-the-board-clear in an effort initially to focus on the individual stripped of all his bonds to failed societies and discredited value systems.
De Beauvoir largely succeeds here in refuting the ridiculous claims that people used when trying to argue against the existentialists. Her prose is fairly straight forward (at least compared to Sartre's) and her arguments are very well crafted. You really get a sense in this work of how existential thought arose as a response to the butchery of the second world war. She puts a more human face on her ideas than Sartre. Her concept of ambiguity in the book's conclusion deftly predicts much of the rest of 20th century philosophy and critical thought.
The term "existentialism" has been, like "postmodern" or "hipster," so stretched to death that it has long since stopped meaning anything at all.
But Simone de Beauvoir makes a good go of trying to fit the ethics of an existentialist age-- one defined, not by meaninglessness as is so often presupposed as ambiguity-- into a more comprehensive framework for understanding the world.
She's especially good at calling out anyone who thinks they figured it out, and yet she doesn't use her intellectual agnosticism as a smokescreen against any other argument.
I like to read philosophy for its provocative quality, and I feel plenty provoked, so for me it was a success.

I liked this book, but I am not sure I will remember it in a few weeks.
I don't read a lot of philosophy, and I probably picked up this book because it was cheap at Half-Priced Books and because I like SdB and Sartre, and their separate discussion about freedom.
But I guess if your ethics are only about ambiguity (something that I think is probably sorely lacking in understanding in the contemporary political-social environment), you can have lots of contradictory things.
It is by far one of the best books on existentialism.
As you can tell from looking at the length of the book, she is very concise in her writing.
Don't be fooled by the length - this is not an easy read.
I've read it 3 times and constantly want to go back for more because I get something new each time.
For those who want to read about existentialism and don't want to worry about the "almost depressing" works of Sartre and the "still not quite sure I understood that" works of Kierkegaard.
Having lived through both the world wars and being very involved, along with Sartre, in the French political scene she was able to gain tremendous insight into the ethical dilemmas that come around with any human action on a large scale.
This is the ambiguous nature that modern humans finds themselves in once they realize that the subjective nature of his existence excludes the possibility of a purely objective point of view on which to base life.
So if you just have questions about how Existentialism can work in real life this is a good text to start with.
they do, the proverbial fog clears and such precision clarity is enlightening.
You continue reading, and as quickly as the clarity had come upon you confusion sets in again, (i.e.
With thoughts like, "the child's condition is metaphysically privileged," and "There is the serious from the moment that freedom denies itself to the advantage of ends which one claims are absolute," she conveys solid logic and began for me a starting point from which to finally access existentialism.
I closed the 160th and final page of the book immensely satisfied and ready for more.I read Bernard Frechtman's translation.
I wonder if there may be a more lucid translation.

I was told this was a good book for "beginners" but I struggled so much with this, have been reading it since May and had to push myself through. What Simone says is nevertheless fascinating and vital to the existential school of thought but the density of this text was too heavy for me. I am going to try Simone's fiction and read some hopefully easier texts and then maybe I can revisit this.
It is indeed a tour de force on de Beauvoir's part to succeed in turning the absurdity of the human condition into a dialectic of ambiguity which proposes that "we are absolutely free today if we choose to will our existence in its finiteness, a finiteness which is open on the infinite." This book is actually a very uplifting and liberating book which does not propose an evasion from our human condition but a way to transcend it.
Definately the most readable overview of existentialism around, and a good crack at what an existential ethics would mean. She twists herself up in knots trying to cope with Stalinism, but other than that is philosophically consistent in her political approach.
This book is not only the attempt for an ethics to Sartre's humanist existentialism but also the attempt for a new ethics in a world where the idea of inhuman objectivity doesn't stand anymore. One of the best works of continental philosophy.
Read this long ago in college. Just now adding it.
This is a reread. Just as good and just as difficult as the first time I read it! Review eventually.
Female plus existential philosophy is so refreshing. Highly recommend.
While existentialists like Jean-Paul Sartre and Maurice Merleau-Ponty were very much concerned with the concrete reality of the world in which we live and our facticity as human persons, they nevertheless failed to offer a true ethics to complement their persuasive phenomenology.
Beauvoir, therefore, calls upon us all to reject oppression, help liberate the oppressed, and increase freedom however and whenever we can.Despite this call to action, Beauvoir is by no means prepared to offer us a clear “plan” for how to act ethically.
سیمون دو بووار زمانی گفت: «زندگی من، کار من است». این حرف نشاندهنده این است که او یک اگزیستانسیالیست حقیقی بود؛ برای او زندگی و اندیشه بهطور غیر قابل تفکیکی بههم پیوند خورده بودند؛ ما با کارهایی که انجام میدهیم تعریف میشویم. اگزیستانسیالیسم، فلسفهای است که بر شرایط وجود انسان تأکید دارد اما مفهوم ماهیت انسان را رد میکند؛ فلسفهای که آزادی بشر را تأیید میکند اما بر این اصرار دارد که چنین آزادیای با خود نیروبخشی فرهمندی بههمراه ندارد بلکه منجر به اضطراب و استیصال میشود. فلسفهای که بر این تأکید میو
عنوان کتاب هم توجه را جلب می‌کند و هم غیرجذاب است؛ این واقعیت که یک اگزیستانسیالیست به‌طور صریح در مورد اخلاق حرف می‌زند (به‌جای این که صرفاً بر آزادی ناگریز ما تأکید ورزد) امری نادر است، اما مطمئناً اخلاقی که خود را به ابهام پیوند می‌زند به سختی می‌تواند امید به پاسخی مفید برای مشکلات اخلاقی بدهد.این دقیقاً همان چیزی است که دو بووار می‌خواهد بگوید.
راه پیش‌رو این است که به ماهیت روابطمان با دیگر مردم توجه کنیم.اگزیستانسیالیسم سارتر منجر به فردگرایی مشخصی می‌شود که طی آن این واقعیت که دیگر افراد وجود دارند، تهدید دائمی برای افتادن به دام «ایمان بد» است.
I don’t know what de Beauvoir I’d saying half the time, but when I do know what she’s saying blows my mind.
why does this feel like the first real book i've read?
this is the book i will recommend to people who wonder about how to be in an absurd world as an existentialist and not be suicidal.
153-154"but the idea of a total dialectic of history does not imply that any factor is ever determining; on the contrary, if one admits that the life of a man may change the course of events, it is that one adheres to the conception which grants a prepondrerant role to cleopatra's nose and cromwell's wart.
During a difficult part of my life I was reading Seven Types of Ambiguity and noticed it put me to sleep.
I started reading it when I woke in the night and found it helped.
This is probably way more than you want to know about my sleeping habits, but it explains why it has taken me so long to finish this book.
I want to reread this book and believe I would find much more in it.
This is a good companion to Sartre's ‘Being and Nothingness’ as it simplifies and abbreviates B & N while using it as a reference throughout. There is much use of philosophical terminology that can stump you if you weren't a philosophy major. Overall it sheds some light on the morals of man, the reasoning behind war / war crimes and the true definition of freedom. Although written several decades ago, the references and comparisons have eerie similarities to our current political times.
Amazing Beavouir. Her language is a total indulgence (even after being translated in English). The notions in the book have well standings and can never cease to but impressively explain the lives of people in the 21 century. The second sex was great as in an elaboration of a vast amount of history facts and cultural opinions. This one is more free-flow and speaks the mind of Beavouir in a better sense. Totally fall for her wits. Such an amazing woman with great insights.
When I read dense philosophy, I usually read it twice. The first time I read it all the way through quickly, as if I were reading fiction, in order to pick up the main ideas. The second time, I read it more closely, which takes longer, but I'm able to then probe deeper and gain a more full understanding of the work. I'm on the second phase with this book.
I love this woman. Her particular understanding of modern femininity, the world of the second world war, existentialism, fascism, humor, and the obscurity of our common anxieties.
I'm giving it 4 because I just can't give a female in Philosophy less than 4, there are so few.But do I like it, well.....In the context of the conversations of the time, that lost feeling of having no God or connection for what exists, post a WWII death, Natzism, Cold War and more, I get it.
didn't leave me really feeling like I got the ethics of Ambiguity....I think it only makes sense if you were there in the moment when people were arguing that Ethics was Absurd in a world of existentialism and post-theologism....
Central to her argument is the rejection of a concrete source of stimuli that has historical continuity (physcalist/materialist determinism), at minimum this is the case at the subjective/ego existential level of here and now… And so one has free will, or the illusion of it in such a way that determinism is disrupted by existence, at the very moment of action by a type of mystical ignorance or temporal experiential subjectivity (awareness isolation to the now).
How else can one begin to into a book like this then start from the first quote in the book; "prima, quae vitam dedit, ora corpsit. The continuous work of our life is to build death," from Montaigne.
