https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113435.Crossroads_of_Twilight

I love being in the minority! Happy Reading! Mel 🖤🐾🐺
Hope this slog fest is over and things will move forward more swiftly from this point on.
I read it years ago and ended up giving up on The Wheel of Time after this book.
So, as with Winter's Heart, I cheated by reading many of the chapter summaries at Encyclopaedia WOT.
I skimmed the chapters involving Perrin's hunt for Faile because I remembered how slow, grueling, and painful they were when I read them the first time.
It also doesn't help that Jordan made occasional mistakes along the way (nicely pointed out by Encyclopaedia WOT).If it weren't for Brandon Sanderson's finale, I would absolutely give up at this point (I did once).
Read more Robert Jordan book reviews at Fantasy literature.
This is book #10 of the series and is probably the one with the least action and most politicking of them all.
At times, as we get closer to the last book, the world of WoT seems more richly layered and real than the one we inhabit in our daily lives.
The characters, the banter, even the completely idiotic mistakes some of our gang make at this point of the story, all the plotting, betrayals, double-crossing and new connections on all the newly forming fronts, all of them continue weaving one of the greatest sagas of all times!!!!
We rode on the winds of the rising storm,We ran to the sounds of the thunder.We danced among the lightning bolts,and tore the world asunder.Is Crossroads of Twilight the weakest Wheel of Time book I've read so far?
Pfft, it's a Wheel of Time book.
Of course it is.In terms of plot development, this book has nothing to offer.
But the world and the characters are so fantastic I don't even mind.
And since for the first time, none of the protagonists act like whiny teenagers, I want to read the next one straight away.Wheel of Time reviews:#1 
The Eye of the World
Crossroads of Twilight
Not a lot happened in the story arcs of the vast majority of the main characters.
As a result this was probably the least enjoyable of the WoT books so far.
Mat: The star of this book.
Perrin: Just like Mat his chapters were engaging despite the fact that he did absolutely nothing.
Elayne: I usually love the female WoT characters as much as the male ones but their is no denying that Elayne's chapters in this one were a bit slow and dull.
It is a massive plus for the WoT series that the pair narrate every single book in the series.
I keep saying that these have no action until the last 10% but this one missed the last 10% and has 0 action until the very last page.Let me save you some time.-Elayne is fussed over because she is pregnant.
Whines about Queen stuff.
Aviendha is also there.-Min strides around in her trousers and threatens Rand with a knife.-Rand does a whole lot of nothing except talk to voices in his head and drool over Min.-Egwene pushes around and reads some paper.-Some Aes Sedai in the hall are pretty.
And the dice roll.
Roll.
Roll.
Saved you 7 hours.
Crossroads of Twilight has:846 pages271K words30 Chapters + Prologue + Epilogue22 Uniquie PoVs45 Individual PoVsAnd the plot arcs only moved forward 2 inches...2 measly inches.HOW?????Even Snails be like…Part of the issue is that the first 55-60% of this book is just about what everyone else was doing while Rand and Nynaeve were trying to cleanse Saidin.The Rundown:Faile is still kidnapped by the Shido and Perrin is pretty much at the end of his tether trying to get her back.Everyone still thinks that Perrin has a thing with that bitch Beralain (view spoiler)[This is not resolved in this book they are still apart plus enter Rolan who likes Faile and I see even more angst and people thinking others cheated in the future for them.
I will keep this short.
In this book, absolutely nothing happens.
There is no character development.
There is no plot.
Instead, the reader, who has so generously given Robert Jordan so much of his/her money over the course of the series, is treated to descriptions of dresses of characters whom we don't care about and who have no actual bearing on the plot.
My advice to those slogging through this series: Read the last ten pages of this book, and then continue on to Knife of Dreams, a flawed book, but at least one where something happens.
I really need to mention the reason for my rating of the book; it is a strange one.
I mentioned 2 star rating as a big series fan.What exactly happened during 600+ pages?
Another big part of the frustration comes from the fact that the previous book ended with a grand event which would surely change the history of the whole world and already changed the power picture among the major players, including the remaining Forsaken.
This was the best part of otherwise completely hopeless Perrin's subplot.This is without a doubt the slowest book of the series.
For starters, it's a bad sign when the first thing that happens in your storyline is that someone (in this case Gareth Bryne) says "If you act now, which you have the capability to do all your problems will be solved." and you (in this case Egwene) responds "No, that wouldn't be in character.
(Books 5 *AND* 7 both end with what amounts to "suddenly, Rand decided to challenge one of the forsaken...".) But the way it's presented, right at the beginning of the Egwene's storyline, really kills the momentum of the book***, so much so that I left off on page 500 for something like 4 weeks.
It's a testament to Mr. Jordan's ability to spin a web of characters, events and places around the reader, that now after reading all the previous books in the series I didn't find this boring at all.
I remember bitching about books 1-3 with their slow build-up and excessive descriptions and I strongly suspect that if I'm to read them now it won't bother me at all.
And as we get closer to Tarmon Gai'don I feel we will have less of those funny and light exchanges and more death and desperation.
It is not bad in the conventional way, it is just very very slow.Like literally nothing happened in this half length book.
But as a I explained earlier, I like slow.
Heck, I love slow, if it also includes insight into the characters' minds and helps expand the scope of the series.
And these things were there.Okay, so this book was about Mat and Perrin, and Rand barely showed up.
Well, I don't like Perrin, not since he married that bitchy excuse of a girl.
But my dislike for a character and him being in a book is no excuse to hate the book.
Mat's chapters, I loved.
Knowing that there was a Wheel of Time book out there that I had not yet read, and could, if I wanted to, if only I would just break the rules and go pick up a copy of it.I picked up a copy of it in the airport on the way home, and read it at my first convenience, only to find that this book was a complete and utter BETRAYAL of all of my years of faithfully following this series through the good and the bad alike.
Instead, it ends with a very weak cliffhanger that doesn't even really lead into the next book, because the character it happens to has a single chapter in the next book.At less than half the length of the longest book in the series, Crossroads of Twilight is actually quite short.
The most significant thing that happens this book is that Jordan makes sure to have each storyline at one point react to Rand cleansing the taint from Saidin, which is not even something that happened in this book.
So, the most exciting thing to be found here is characters reacting to something that happened in another book.
If he has, it’s series long, and this book is the bit in between the rising tension and the climax, where he slipped off to have a nap while he tried to figure things out.
This is an 822 page status update.The only two things that held my attention were Cadsuane, and Mat and Tuon.
The current plot summary is worth reading if only because each entry reads: Character / "continues" / To Do / Ongoing Plotline.In short, not only is nothing resolved, but nothing happens.The best that can be said in defense of Crossroads of Twilight is that Mat returns after a two novels long absence.
I mean that Jordan seems to have completely lost track of whatever Perrin was supposed to be doing to help Rand win The Last Battle.Egwene, Jordan's most admirable Aes Sedai, is stuck as well.And Rand?
Well, it worked in The Dragon Reborn.I remember reading that even Jordan once said this was his weakest work.He was right.
Na momente vrlo dosadna, na momente veoma zanimljiva. Sve u svemu, Met i Egvena zahtevaju odmah nastavak u ruke.Prolupaću od ovog Džordana! :D
This could have been one of the great Epic High Fantasy Series in the English Language.
Although the sales of this series have steadily dropped since the 7th volume.
I don't know how they will do as a new writer sets out to complete the story.******************* UPDATE *********************Since I reviewed this I have read two of the Brandon Sanderson novels (from the library).
The story lumbers on.
Some like the Sanderson books better but to me the convoluted plot line has been so stretched out that it can never be what it might have been.
The Eye of the World (Wheel of Time, #1) by Robert Jordan
The Great Hunt (Wheel of Time, #2) by Robert Jordan
The Dragon Reborn (Wheel of Time, #3) by Robert Jordan
The Shadow Rising (Wheel of Time, #4) by Robert Jordan
The Fires of Heaven (Wheel of Time, #5) by Robert Jordan
Lord of Chaos (Wheel of Time, #6) by Robert Jordan
A Crown of Swords (Wheel of Time, #7) by Robert Jordan
The Path of Daggers (Wheel of Time, #8) by Robert Jordan
Winter's Heart (Wheel of Time, #9) by Robert Jordan
New Spring (Wheel of Time, #0) by Robert Jordan
The Wheel of Time series represents, for me, the perfect example of a guilty pleasure in the world of fantasy.This series is not actually written very well.
Robert Jordan was not a very good wordsmith, and he really only knew how to say and describe things one way.
Many people also love and adore these books, and will forever place The Wheel of Time series upon their list of all-time favorite books.
Either way, you'll have exposed yourself to one of the most famous fantasy series of all time.
This was one of the WoT entries that I found the least enjoyable of the bunch (so much politics - shudders), but it was still good. Mat carried this one for me as his moments with Tuon were some of the best in the series and I am definitely looking forward to the last few books. It can only pick up from here.
However in my eyes the flaws humanise these novels and serve to remove that element of pomposity I sense in other fantasy epics.
I'm not saying that at times Jordan doesn't lose track of how big his world is, but I don't sense that in his writing he is suggesting that the reader look at how amazing he is and how good he is.
As said in other reviews I recommend the series with the warning that some of the books are a slow drag compared to others.
"The Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend.
I have got five books left to complete 'The Wheel of Time'.I really enjoyed Winter's Heart but I personally think book 8-10 could have delivered a better storyline or they could be in one book.
Crossroads of Twilight is really slow as it can be furious but I have to be patient and read it but I still love 'The Wheel of Time'.
Honestly, I can't. I can't I can't I can't.Do you know how to tell when you are seriously being f'd up? When you are reading one of Perrin's POVs and you NO JOKE start tearing up, not because you feel for his character or anything, but because you're so damn frustrated. That was me. I'm so sad because I started this series, just thinking, just thinking that it might become my favorite series of all time. Somehow, I still believe that. OMG! HOW DID YOU PEOPLE GO THROUGH THIS EVERY 2 YEARS!!??I need a break.
I think what I liked best about this book was that all of the main characters’ stories were given at least a little page time.
It seemed like at least one major storyline was always left hanging in the last few books, and I wouldn’t have been happy about letting any of the main stories sit on the back burner during this entire book, so I was happy to see them all represented.
I’m not bored by it while I read it, but it’s the story I have to think hardest about by the end of the book to remember what exactly happened.
It was almost a relief to read this book after hearing so much negative about it.I think this book solved its purpose.
The purpose of this book was to show how frustrated and annoyed everyone in this book is.
And that is what it does to you, and so you understand them better.
That it does it by incredibly tedious and long chapters, with almost nothing happening in them is what describes the story better.Perrin, Elayne and Mat are all waiting for their respective conclusions but there are so many problems hindering their progress.
Basically the whole book was about very little but I am so invested in these characters now that I enjoyed it anyway. You have to admire Jordan's skill. In seven hundred pages we never find out if Rand cleansed the source or not at the end of the previous book. That's how you make a story last through multiple huge volumes. Excited to move on to the next one of those volumes right now!
The good news:1) Nynaeve DOES NOT APPEAR IN THIS BOOK!!!
The last third of this book contained two amazingly good WTF moments that hold a lot of promise for upcoming volumes.
3) When Rand does finally appear, it is very good.
His character becomes more and more complicated and interesting with each entry in this series.4) Very little time is spent in the dream world, which means we are do not have to read extensive descriptions of dresses and Egwene's sex life.
5) Speaking of Egwene: when the book starts cooking, she really comes into her own for (possibly) the first time in the series.
Every would be author of epic fantasy (or any long running series) should be required to (prior to being published) document the failings of The Wheel of Time with particular focus on this book.
It is really hard to comprehend how in a nearly 700 page book not only nothing happens, but nothing happens to a bunch of people you don't care about.
Instead of reading the book, I'd recommend that people just read the chapter summaries on Encyclopaedia WOT.
Or perhaps I've been so addled by the degradation of the series that a mediocre book seems fantastic....
