https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97459.The_Temple
Paul, the protagonist, is clearly Spender; the other two Englishmen in the novel William Bradshaw and Simon Wilmot are Isherwood and Auden respectively.
The main German characters, Ernst, Joachim (the photographer Herbert List) and Willy are distinct and contrasting.
His one foray into novel writing does not compare with Isherwood’s writing from this time; but the themes are similar; the struggle for sexual freedom and this stimulating political dissent.
The Temple does not have the power and life of Isherwood, but it does consider the political implications of sexual dissent.
There is little sex in comparison, the most graphic being hetero: Spender was of conflicted, or uncertain, or of multiple sexuality, and it shows.
Thus we can't determine what were Spender's original impressions of Germany at the time, or what were added fifty-plus years later.
None of this is to pan the book—the writing is at times quite fine—but it's incomplete and altered from the unavailable original, probably to conserve his own carefully protected reputation and to add the benefit of historical hindsight.Recommendation: Isherwood's Goodbye to Berlin (also included in The Berlin Stories) definitely should be read before this book for a far better fictionalized treatment of wonderfully liberal Weimar Germany.
This is a surprisingly beautiful story of an Englishman, Paul, and his colleagues and comrades that he meets abroad mostly in Hamburg, Germany during 1927-1931 (Ernst, Joachim, & Willy along with the boys that occupy their romantic obsessions).
A strange time between WWI and WWII, almost prophetic of friends and lovers that would be forced to become enemies just 10 years later.
Wonderful poetry and literary references, as well, to bridge symbolism of the abstract with the reality of this time.
The back-story of Stephen Spender's writing of this piece and his relationship with W.H. Auden and Christopher Isherwood are also worth researching.
The biggest change was to move the date of his second visit to Germany from 1929 to 1932, thus allowing us to better feel the coming of the Nazis, even though Spender and his friends seem politically unaware of the evil soon to enter the world.
The Temple, which Spender could not sell because of references to homosexuality and threats of libel, is an autobiographical novel of experiences he had in Germany where he spent time on a vacation in 1929, and the drafts he sent to his friends were, “dispatches from a front line in our joint war against censorship.” In a conversation with Joachim Lenz, a friend Paul makes in Germany, he asks, “Is young people living their lives the new Germany?
Started this on a whim this past weekend, hoping to continue traveling throughout Europe in the 1920's (after re-reading "The Sun Also Rises" on Thanksgiving).
Mostly an autobiographical, especially the first part, of Stephen Spender's (as Paul S.) visits to Germany, as he finds himself coming out of his reserved English skin.
He meets interesting, artistic characters while at Oxford and in Hamburg.
Also, Paul has his first homosexual and heterosexual experiences within hours of each other.
The second part was the intriguing portion of the narrative, when Paul revisits Hamburg and calls upon his friends three years later on the eve of the Nazi takeover of Germany.
The Temple is amongst them: the novels that influenced my life (Maurice, Farewell Symphony, How Long Has This Been Going On), and yet this was the only Stephen Spender novel I ever read (or considered reading). It is remarkable how the German backdrop of The Temple (1929) much later seem to fit so well with my interest in Berlin, German, and Prussian history. Or did it actually stem from this novel? Who will know?
The thing that most sticks out in my mind from this book was the observation that we often fall in love with who we want a person to be instead of who they really are.
Questo libro ha un merito. Il raccontare un periodo storico (quello che è intercorso tra le due guerre) vissuto dalla gioventù di allora. Lo stile è un po' difficile ed è a volte talmente descrittivo di particolari inutili da confondere il lettore. Essendo uno stile di altri tempi forse ne risente
spender: "dedicated in 1930 to w.h. auden and christopher isherwood"me: 😭😭😭😭😭
piombare nella repubblica di weimar giusto un attimo prima del disastro: le prime avvisaglie, i primi discorsi ambigui, i primi fastidi immotivati verso tutto ciò che esce dai canoni, fino ad arrivare alla violenza.
paul è testimone del qui e ora dell'avvento del nazismo, vede amici e amanti prima descrivergli cosa sta accadendo, poi venirne toccati, fino alla violenza su joachim.
peccato però che nel finale ci sia la sensazione che sia quasi incompleto: vorresti di più, vorresti sapere cosa è successo dopo, quel finale così (più la poesia scritta in un momento di svolta) non mi ha soddisfatto...
Since first encountering Auden in grad school, I have been fascinated by his experiences in Germany & Berlin as well as that of his Oxford friends Christopher Isherwood & Stephen Spender who also wrote brilliant novels about their experiences there and in Hamburg. Watching the rise of the Nazis and the collapse of a vibrant and strange artistic & social world of that city.
This is a great book if you're interested in being transported to late Weimar Germany and seeing why it was an attractive destination for foreigners at the time. It's a nice complement to Christopher Isherwood's Goodbye to Berlin. Fans of Isherwood and W.H. Auden will enjoy their appearances in the novel as William Bradshaw and Simon Wilmot.
This is an enjoyable book, although rather inconsistent. Some of the passages, especially those that are heavy on dialogue, are awkward and with a purpose that is far from clear. Others are bright and evocative. Although none of the characters is simple, nor are they alive or engaging, particularly in the first part of the book.
This book is worthwhile in its presentation of the pre Nazi era of cultural and artistic freedom that was Germany. The reader is provided with a clearer understanding of just how total was the destruction by the Nazis for the creative Germany. A great coming of age story.
Interesting account of the author's visits to Germany between the wars. Not as vivid as Isherwood, Spender seems somehow more callow.
