https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32137.Summer_of_the_Dragon
this book, which has several very Deep Secret moments, such as the eccentric convention of odd characters.
It's a good thing!
The only part about this book that I really couldn't stand was the fact that she kept mentioning the hero's moustache ...
I just couldn't picture him as attractive when the only image coming to my mind was 70s cowboy ...
Apart from this point, which I fully admit is totally shallow and without any merit, I thoroughly enjoyed the book!
Great adventure, sense of humour, and even a hunt for buried treasure - so good.
3/24 I am not finding this particularly interesting. I am puzzled by the high ratings, because, while there are some interesting characters in this, mostly it's been chit-chat, low on plot.
Loved the protagonist!
In this book, the main character is a young girl, who goes to a ranch in Arizona for the summer.
After a series of accidents happen including when Hank, the owner of the ranch goes missing, the other guests soon begin to accuse each other.In my opinion, Elizabeth Peters did a really good job at making the book flow.
There is evidence to accuse everyone of kidnaping Hank, such as when people left the day before and after that Hank was kidnaped.
I liked that there was evidence for almost everyone being guilty.
Ms Peters has done it again.
The characters are pretty well rounded with enough zany crazy ones to keep it interesting.
The heroine is sassy, smart, well educated and independent and, as I said before, fluent in sarcasm; something I can directly relate to.
I like that Ms P's heroines don't go off doing stupid stuff just to aggravate some man they claim they can't stand, and then he ends up rescuing them, then they end up in the tired, predictable state of romance at the end.
These books are well researched and interesting with mystery thrown in.I highly recommend this book.

DJ, a student anthropologist, gets a cushy job with an extremely wealthy crackpot, Peters fills her time with zanies and the less zany, everything wraps up neatly, romance included. Much better than the few I’ve listened to recently, although grouchy heroes aren’t quite to my taste, hungry heroines make up for it.
A super cute little mystery/romance by a favorite author. While I will always love the Amelia Peabody series, these stand alones are fun too. Cute and lovable narrator, hunky smart guys, lots of eccentric characters, and tons of humor. Lots of chuckling. This is clean in language, sex, and even super mild in violence.
The first Elizabeth Peters book I read and I was hooked. Many years later I reread it and while possibly it had dated a little, or perhaps because her writing improved with later novels, it did not hit me with quite the same force, I still think of it fondly.
Not bad, but not the most interesting mystery I've read - it's pretty cookie-cutter. Every other chapter was like "we need to find Hank!" all the way to the end. Lol.
One of my favorites of the Peters' standalone novels.
Modern style gothic.....you can never go wrong with this author!
Not a page turner, but I loved the setting.
Relatively forgettable, but has an enjoyable protagonist.
A quick and enjoyable read. Not quite was I expected, but still a fun read.
This book is so trivial that I almost did not want to finish it.
Elizabeth Peters gives us whole people to read about, not just personality traits and hodge-podge histories.
Her books are about people who are thrown together with particular attributes that enable them to work together and survive treachery.
I particularly enjoyed this heroine - just an average, slightly overweight woman with her own emotional baggage.The romance was not at all believable and resolved in such a way to make it even less likely.
You know how sometimes you pose a question that begins, "If we were the last two people on a desert island..." That really is the only way our characters found love.
Does it ever survive when you get off the island?
I loved the D.J.'s character in this novel.
I loved the anthropology references in the book.
I'm guessing Peters had an American anthropology background, because the information was good (though not deeply explored -- the anthropology was well measured flavor, not the purpose of the book).
I was expecting a solid mystery because I've read books in the Amelia Peabody series.
This is not really a mystery.
There IS a mystery in it, but it doesn't show up until near the end and it's resolved fairly quickly.
No, this is more an adventure with an interesting setting and cast of characters.
After some strange events happen in the mansion Hank turns up missing and D.J., Tom, and one of the maids are the only people who are worried.
Mayhem occurs.Hank was probably the most interesting character in the book and I would’ve liked to have seen more of him that just the little tid-bits we got.
The plot was okay, I got a little bored in some places, but the pacing usually picked back up fairly quick.
I think I liked listening to all the weird people gathered at the mansion form battle plans and try to get people to believe their theories the most in this book.
Abbott left her summer plans until the last minute.
So when an all-expenses paid opportunity to stretch her anthropologic wings.
It turns out the job is for the fabulously wealthy Hank Hunnicutt.
Unfortunately, Hank is also known for his...
eccentricities.
J. arrives at his southwestern mansion, it's filled to the rafters with hangers-on who are telling him about past lives and Atlantis and every other crackpot theory that's out there.
So when Hank tells D.
J. she's going to be helping him hunt for dragons...
But then the supposed attempts on Hank's life are ramped up and he disappears.Will D.
I was hesitant when I first started this book.
For some reason it has always annoyed me when the narrator talks directly to the reader about "reading this book." From the first chapter, I prepared myself to think the voice was forced and not enjoy it at all.However, it grew on me.
I started to understand the humor, and soon I found myself laughing out loud.
I loved the story that involved all of the "crazies," and the end was genuinely intense and not at all anticlimactic.I do suggest this book for anyone who wants a fairly light read with some humor and intelligent mystery.
This is one of my Grandma's favourite books - she's been mentioning it for years, telling me that everyone she knows from 14 to 98 has loved it - and I figured it was about time to find myself a copy.
There were a few elements of the story that I didn't love but I just reminded myself that the book was written in the late 70s and nothing was bad enough to hinder my enjoyment of the story; it's actually got a surprisingly modern feel to it for being written almost 40 years ago.
I've read a Barbara Michaels book (aka Elizabeth Peters) about a smart aleck woman who eats constantly large amounts of food and talks about food all the time.
So guess what this book is about, a smart aleck woman who eats constantly large amounts of food and talks about food all the time.
Also in both books the heroes are dark skinned, meanies, that fall in love in the last 10 pages.
From the above, I guess you can tell I didn't care for the book.
I rarely give one star but with all of the books she writes under both names, I expected a little better.
I had my to-read books in a jumble, and when I started this I was under the vague impression it was a fantasy book recommended by Robin McKinley.
Clearly, I did not look at the author when I grabbed it off the pile of books.
In this state, I was very impressed with the realistic description of the world of academia.
I wondered how on earth the book was going to transition to fantasy.Well, of course it never did transition into a fantasy book, but it was a very satisfying read nonetheless.
I felt that the ending was a little rushed, but I enjoyed it greatly.

I liked the archaeological details of the plot in this one--always one of Peters' strongest points. I also enjoyed all the colorful characters, and the lovely descriptions. What I didn't buy, unfortunately, was the romance between the main characters. Maybe because arguing is not my favorite form of flirtation--I just don't find it sexy. I also don't think it's EVER right for a man to spank a woman just because he's frustrated with her. Just, ew.
This is one of my favorite "cozy" books. Whenever I want to read a book that I found comforting and familiar, I turn to Elizabeth Peters/Barbara Michaels and read one of her books. This book is just about perfect: D.J. and Tom have a funny and sarcastic friendship and the adventure/mystery is great. Even though I have almost every sentence memorized, I still love this book. I have 2 different paperback copies of it and I've read it a million times.
Fun is the word to describe this book. From the moment that anthropology student DJ showed up, running late for getting a summer internship, I loved it. DJ enjoys her food, has a sense of humor, and doesn't tolerate pseudo-scientists well. The love interest was plausible, the mystery was fast-moving, and educational tidbits were dropped in painlessly. In short, it is top-notch Elizabeth Peters.
Set in the desert landscape of Arizona on a luxurious ranch of a wealthy "kook"; quite a collection of characters who subscribe to either paranormal, alien origins, or a few "true" scientists to boot gather to either pursue their own projects or "feed" off the generosity of their host, Hank. He has brought our heroine there to help him with a mysterious find. Someone doesn't want that to happen. An enjoyable light read, some interesting southwest history, a mystery and a little romance.
Sometimes I'm not in the mood for moral shades of grey or psychological angst. At such times, a book by Elizabeth Peters (a.k.a. Barbara Michaels) often hits the spot. In Summer of the Dragon the writing, plotting, and characterization are all good. There is a lot of humor, a dash of romance, and a satisfying ending. This book is fun and has a lighter feel than the types of crime novel that are generally more popular today but, at the same time, it is not sappy or sentimental.
