https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7786000-candleford-green
I'm beginning to think I was confusing this book with Cranford, though that's quite a stretch.
At one point a gypsy tells "Flora/Laura's" fortune and says "You will be loved by people you haven't seen and will never see." I wonder if this was a reference to the popularity of the author's books--and if she lived to see that.
Vol 1 mentions a royal Jubilee as witnessed by the children of Lark Rise, and here again with have Victoria's diamond Jubilee--are they meant to be the same event, ten years later?
Twenty-five years have assuredly not passed.
Candleford Green follows "Laura" to the small village of Candleford Green, to her job in the post office, working under Dorcas Lane.
Like the others of the trilogy, it has a lot of detail of everyday life, and the people Laura meets during her work.
I don't think it's anything like the series -- though I haven't see the series, and am now tempted to, to see what they made of it -- and the only character who goes through any kind of arc is Laura, and that only superficially.
Covering the period in Flora Thompson's (who calls herself "Laura" in the books) life when she was a postal worker and letter carrier in the small village of Candleford Green.
Although still, like the others, more a series of vignettes and reflections on life in such a place in the 1890s than a story with a plot, the book is supremely engaging and readable.
A beautiful insight into a way of life long gone, and well worth the read - these books are a gem that I hope will not fall out of the canon.
Although these books read almost more like a documentary than a story, they are compelling and fascinating and full of understanding of the people of the English countryside in the 1880s and 90s.In this book, Laura is working at the post office and Candleford Green, and it is from this book that most of the story lines and characters were taken when they made the BBC television show "Lark Rise To Candleford".
The television show takes a lot of liberties and expands on the characters and stories in the books.
But the books are still worth reading, especially if you enjoy history and 19th century England.
A splendid ending. Thanks for visiting you, Laura!!!
For documenting the period of the 1890's small village life in England, this book and it's sister books are fabulous.
Details of daily life, including occupations, customs and habits of the village, homes and their decor, clothing fashions and the nature of the land are all here.Laura is a young girl from Lark Rise, who goes to the nearby town of Candleford Green to become an apprentice to the Post Mistress Dorcas Lane.
The books in this series are used as a base for the BBC series "Lark Rise to Candleford", but only in a very loose sense.
This book is finally where you get to the post office part. I really enjoyed her descriptions of day to day life in this village right before the turn of the century. Like the previous two books in the series, this book isn't about character development or plot. It feels much more like a memoir, but with really great descriptive passages of the surrounding country. It was super interesting to learn about the emerging social classes and how things changed so fast over those few years. I liked the whole trilogy immensely.
3.5*The last volume tells about Laura Timmons' experiences working at the village post office. I find that all 3 volumes were more anecdotal than I preferred but the way of life (now vanished) is described vividly. I can't think of any other book which covers this particular section of British society in the 1880-1900 period.
It had many interesting tidbits of post office life back in the day but not a lot of story. The end was rather ubrupt....like the author had a word limit and very suddenly realized she was about to hit it and had to end the book immediately.
Third part of the famous trilogy (Lark Rise to Candleford), where the author tells her reminiscences about her years working in the Post Office at Candleford Green.The TV series based on this work starts here, although they included anecdotes taken from the first two parts.
It was a really interesting as well as relaxing read.
Beautiful depictions, but no real story. It's all 'telling'. Quite a disappointment.
A delightful read. It paints a picture of an idyllic rural life at the turn of the 19th century.
3.5 stars.
