https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7745.Fear_and_Loathing_in_Las_Vegas
I recently went to Las Vegas for the first, and probably only, time in my life.
For years, no work of his stood out to me as much as Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail '72 or the Gonzo letters.
Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, to me, wasn't his best work.
Suddenly, all the subtle differences between this and his other work made sense, and I realized that he had captured the true tackiness of the truest tacky city on the entire planet (though Dubai with their fucking Island fantasies are likely to take over soon).
Yes, I see all the raving reviews and the four- and five-star ratings, but I honestly don’t remember the last time I was so bored and annoyed by a book.
Do the good people who’ve never done, and will never do, and in reality will be quite appalled by the things described in this book, really find these tales so interesting and charming?
Or did this book offer subliminal messages about human nature or sociopolitical conditions of its time that I missed?
People waving their filthy laundry – the stench going up to high heavens – in our face, just out of sheer narcissism.
Thompson is profane, violent, disturbing, irreverent, and yet immaculately compelling.
It reminds me alternatively of Why Are We in Vietnam?, A Confederacy of Dunces and in a strange way that is indescribable, A Clockwork Orange.
It is about the American dream in a similar way that Mailer’s book is about Vietnam, you may get specifically to it at the end and then, looking back, realize that the subject had been lurking in the shadows all along.
Thompson is a fun writer, I’ve always liked gonzo journalism humor, the similes and metaphors are golden; they are as good as Captain Kangaroo hopped up on mescaline and vodka soaked rice cakes.
Oh I don't really know where to begin with my absolute hate for this book. Hunter Thompson is a famous journalist. He is respected. He rode with the Hells Angels and he interviewed all the musicians that we worship. He was Rolling Stone Magazine "cool". He was so cool that friggen Johnny Depp played him in TWO movies. Loving him is just a given. Apparently. Unfortunately I can't get past the fact that I just think he's a fucking twat.
Did I blot my copybook by slagging off the author's major drug and alcohol habits and thereby get it deleted or what?
It's not like the author could object as a) he's dead and b) he was proud of his prodigious consumption of substances that got him off his head.
Or was it just the GR monster, munching away, like a moth, holes here, holes there and you don't find them until you actually go looking?Whichever.
Bastards.When I was very fired up about the censorships and deletions I wrote a 'review' and I'm wondering if I was more prescient than I realised?
Aside from the fact that I'm a vegetarian and not at all patriotic (towards America or even my own country), I have to say that three-tone denim is an extremely ill advised look Mr Thompson; one might even go so far as to say a mighty fashion faux pas, hence the loss of a star in the ratings.
I've never taken so many drugs as to shit my brain out of my own ear but I did once have my own Fear and Loathing style road trip experience.A few years ago I was travelling from the Iranian Border to a town in a mountainous (read as not touristy) region of Turkey on the train.
You know, if this was the first of Mr. Thompson's books I had read, I never would have picked up another one.
Reading drug writing is about as interesting is watching paint dry.
I mean, he gets on a plane to Denver by accident and decides to attempt to purchase an albino Doberman because "Since I was already here, I thought I might as well pick up a vicious dog." I love his use of language, his token words that he throws around *such as calling various people swine*.
I'll just pretend I read A Generation of Swine instead.
Thompson you will crave whiskey, beer and "...everyone narcotic known to mankind..." Enough of my story, this is after all a book review.A virtually unkown writer was given a line of credit, a hotel room in Las Vegas, NV and an assingment to write a story that he never did.
Instead after days of binging, purging and binging some more the man emerged with a cobbling of notes and tape recordings that he lashed together and handed to Rolling Stone magazine.
The poor bastard will see them soon enough.”That whole opening narration sets the tone of chaos and comedy told in a perfect deadpan that defines this book.Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas: A Savage Journey to the Heart of the American Dream is a modern classic of American literature and is the cause for untold numbers of irresponsible Vegas road trips.
I wouldn’t say it’s as intoxicating still, but it remains a terrific book and really funny to boot.What’s most striking about Fear and Loathing is Thompson’s unique voice narrating with a loquacious urgency and an intelligently arresting, feverish, tone.
I plan to read his other books and I should seek out his Sports Illustrated and Rolling Stone articles before I cast judgement, but if this is his crowning glory, I can't help but lump him into that category of '60s drug-addled mind drifters, those wastes of talent who spout some scattered lines of faux guru shit that impresses other strung out jellyheads in between bouts of frying up their brains.
When genius-level IQ luminaries of the day (E.G. Jim Morrison) weren't getting wasted, they picked up a single random and usually obscure book and it blew their mind...so they constantly referred to it in their own writing repeatedly like a mantra (In Thompson's case: see Horatio Algers).
I wasn't blown away by anything about this book.
I don't think it was bad because I thought it was so out there and wild and crazy.
I thought it was bad because it pretended just writing about being wild and crazy makes it immediately worthwhile.
The book really didn't have a plot.
About two-thirds of the way through Thompson seemed to realize this and tried to give the book meaning with the "American Dream" concept, but it flatlined.
One good thing about the book: it was short and quick so I was able to end my suffering in a timely manner.
Fear and Loathing captures the experience of visiting Vegas expertly.
It's flashy and in-your-face and fun.
Hunter S Thompson has a way with words and characters that immediately draw you into his absurd, drug-filled chronicle.
Coherency isn't really his strong point, though.
So like Vegas, it severely lacks substance.
The chapters ramble along like episodes in a sitcom.
It's kind of a shame that how the story was compiled and published and the origin of it all isn't worked in somehow.
That's what really gives Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas its unique place in literature.
A gonzo journalist writing for sports editors hits the road on an assignment to Sin City with a trunk full of dangerous drugs that looked like a mobile police narcotics lab. He had two bags of grass, seventy-five pellets of mescaline, five sheets of high powered blotter acid, a salt shaker half full of cocaine, and a whole galaxy of multi-coloured uppers, downers, screamers, laughers and also a quart of tequila, a quart of rum (there's a movie out Rum  diaries starring Jonny Depp out now what
A gonzo journalist writing for sports editors hits the road on an assignment to Sin City with a trunk full of dangerous drugs that looked like a mobile police narcotics lab.
He was then sent to cover the National District Attorney's Conference on Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs still fully loaded with dangerous substances.
Don't forget there's nothing better than getting high naturally on adrenaline, fear, happiness and love.Prepare to be immersed into the seedier side of the world by a writer who's been they and got the t-shirt.You can watch Hunter S.
Lo siento. \_(ツ)_/
Lo siento. ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
the indisputable thompson of his time

''Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas'' is supposed to be a hilariously witty portrait of the underground culture of the 70s, when the Summer of Love experience was nothing but a sad memory, already fading away in the burst of violence of those final lysergic days: the Family's murders, the escalating Vietnam atrocities, the ethnic clash, the political tension etc.
By the time I read this book I was eighteen and I had already had my personal share of Fear & Loathing, so I was more disappointed by the poor writing style than interested in whatsoever literary or cultural merit of Thompson's work.P.S. I'm a good girl now.
But between the amazing portrail by Johnny Depp (and Del Toro), and the brilliant directing work by Gilliam, and the fact that the movie is an amazingly accurate adaptation of the source material, I can't really see a reason to read the book, when you can immerse yourself in the full experience of the movie.
I think so, in Thompson's own perverse way, the book IS an exploration of the American Dream, or lack there of.
He starts out the book with "he who makes a beast of himself, gets rid of the pain of being a man." Here Thompson has given us his conclusion before we even begin reading about the search.
Ridiculous. I mean, I had a vague memory of watching the film while super high in the second year of university and having an absolute riot, and maybe that should have prepared me for the book.... (But enough about that.)Nothing can prepare you for this drug and violence-fuelled look at America's seedy underbelly. Hunter S. Thompson was a genius. Read this utterly compelling and captivating book. That is all.
Thompson’s Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas is a giddy, unpredictable, and hilarious escapade of one journalist and his attorney’s travels while on an exorbitant amount of drugs.
At one point the journalist states that, “It is worth noting, historically, that downers came in with Nixon.” This reflects the novel’s overall sense of lamentation at the loss of the hallucinogenic drug culture and its replacement with the more stifling drug culture surrounding substances such as heroine and benzodiazepines.
The main characters are certainly reckless and dangerous, but it is important to note that their desire to take drugs is based on mind-expansion rather than escapism.The prose describing their conundrums, as they chase this drug-addled sense of freedom, is deeply humorous.
A long drug- and alcohol-frenzied week in Las Vegas.
This is written by Hunter Thompson, long-time editor of Rolling Stone, so we know he knows firsthand about what he writes about.
I imagine this is one of the best portrayals of what is like to go through life in a drug-frenzy, but the story is laced with humor.
It's not great writing, or even good writing, but it holds your attention in the way a magazine column does.
I know it is a work of irony and commentary on materialism but still the writing struck me as sophomoric.
An oddball, wild and crazy thrill ride bursting at the seems with drugs, drugs, and even MORE drugs, how on earth I managed to get through this in one piece is beyond me but did spend a lot of the time laughing my socks off, even if I didn't really have a clue just what the hell was going on, but then again neither did Duke or Dr Gonzo so that makes three of us!.
Can't think of anything else to date that comes even remotely close to this so credit to Mr Thompson for that.
A total shot in the arm (no pun intended!).
“We were somewhere around Barstow, on the edge of the desert, when the drugs began to take hold.”I remember the first time I read  Alice in Wonderland I said to myself- Stepheny, what the hell did you just read?
I was lost, confused and quite certain that the book was a random conglomeration of events that surely only someone heavily under the influence of multiple drugs could possibly understand.
When reading this book you’ll feel like you’re the one tripping your face off on all these drugs and questioning the reality of the world you live in.
The movie DOES follow the book almost verbatim, that's true, but I believe that some of the deeper meaning of Fear and Loathing is lost on the big screen.
Too distracted by the drug-addled antics of Johnny Depp and Benicio Del Toro a movie isn't long enough to ponder what Thompson is "really trying to tell us." And I do believe with all my powers of deduction that Thompson was writing more than a story about mescaline and LSD.It's true that the off-the-wall drug-induced antics of Raoul Duke and his attorney kept me laughing out loud throughout the entirety, but this book has many, many gems of insight into the mood of the era and the status of American culture strewn throughout, if you only take the time to pick them out and examine them.I found many of Duke's encounters especially poignant juxtaposed to today's modern war on drugs, speaking specifically of the anti-drug convention Duke and Gonzo attended.
i loved this book.
i didn't *expect* to love it, which is why i had put it off for two years after receiving it.
i'd read bits and pieces of thompson's work, but never sat down to read one end-to-end.
now i know what i've been missing.this book is everything i had hoped On the Road would be.
a good writer makes you love characters you ought to despise.
as i was reading this, i understood why the world mourned the loss of thompson and his take on things.
planning to read more of his work.
In the book, the main character says he is chasing the "American Dream." And isn't that what the West is all about?
Or maybe Thompson was saying even these guys, the ones reeling off LSD, are still, in their own way, searching for that American ideal.
The way freaks become the norm in a place like that, the way it must breed a particular type of drug culture.
It was really interesting, I liked it.Now, why this book was 3 stars and not 4 was just that I didn't feel very connected to the characters, themselves.
There is a CD with bits from this book performed by a bunch of the original SNL cast and writers.
It is one of the best audio comedic CD's I have ever heard.
Ruined the book slightly, but any fans IMO should seek it out.
I liked the book but because of above CD was a little let down.Added to original review:Just re-read, liked it even more now.
Longing to hear the above mentioned cd but loaned it to somebody, who I guess thought I gave it to her.Anyway my new review of the book below:A quick read but one hell of a long amazing trip.
This book was crap. 204 pages of some dude staying completely wrecked. There was no point, I kept waiting for some deep meaning to come out of it but it never did. A complete waste of my time.

I got that feeling even more from Thompson's Hell's Angels - it's not just about the drugs, it's also a kind of high-testosterone, gun-toting, motorcycle-riding aesthetic that he seems desperately to want to fit into, and he just doesn't.
He's tolerated at best; and, memorably near the end of Hell's Angels, folks do seem to get sick of him after a while.I've heard Fear & Loathing described as Thompson's elegy for the 60s, and I don't know what the fuck they're talking about, this doesn't seem anywhere near that well thought out.
It's actually really fun to read.And, yeah, I guess as far as literary drug freakouts go, this is the apogee.
