https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/424126.Man_and_His_Becoming_According_to_the_Vedanta
Dense but lucid, and beautifully composed despite the apparently dry analytic prose. This book serves as an excellent introduction to Guenon's take on Vedanta and Traditionalist metaphysics at the most abstract level. One of the best features of this book is the multitude of footnotes full of references to a variety of religious and philosophical systems, making it a great key uniting many initiatory and esoteric currents.
Così, le proporzioni precedentemente stabilite da un certo punto di vista, da un altro punto di vista si trovano invertite: dei quattro ‘piedi’ (pâda) di Âtmâ, i primi tre in base alla distinzione degli stati ne valgono uno soltanto per importanza metafisica, e da solo l’ultimo ne vale tre, nella stessa prospettiva.
Se Brahma non fosse ‘senza parti’ (akhanda), si potrebbe dire che soltanto un quarto di Esso è nell’Essere (comprendendovi tutto ciò che ne dipende, vale a dire la manifestazione universale di cui è il principio), mentre gli altri Suoi tre quarti sono al di là dell’Essere.
A great work and a rigorous study of the Vedanta doctrines about the spiritual evolution, or ascent, of human being. The author bases his exposition on authentic and orthodox scriptures of Hindu tradition, with special emphasis on Advaita Vedanta as expounded by Adi Shankara. Guenon also points to parallels in other spiritual traditions such as Islam, Christianity, Taoism, Buddhism, etc. I recommend this book very much because of its lucidity and importance when it comes to true metaphysics.

One of the few books I didn't manage to finish, one of the most redundant and presumptuous writing style which completely ruined a very interesting and culturally important topic.
Guenon unfortunately neglects to explain how these ideas, in particular transmigration, are compatible with Islam. As a muslim reading a book by a muslim, it is a bit disturbing to read such heretical ideas with no explanation.
