https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/398753.The_Song_of_Bernadette
I'm absolutely speechless (which doesn't happen often) after reading The Song of Bernadette. This lyrical account of St. Bernadette was profoundly moving and well worth reading.
Or, isn't human suffering proof that there is no God?Franz Werfel's "Song of Bernadette" takes up these questions, questions that every sentient creature must ponder at least once in his or her lifetime.
I believe that average people, when confronted with the numinous, would react exactly as the characters in Werfel's book are described as reacting.Werfel never converted to Catholicism.
Werfel provides us with portraits of people who respond exactly that way, and others who have to handle the numinous when confronted with it at first hand.
At such moments, we could do worse than pick up Werfel's "Song of Bernadette."
This non-fiction story based on real events, people, places was wonderful to read.
I did some research and found that the author focused on facts that would make the book fictional based on interviews.
I LOVED IT!!!!!OK, I have read books based on actual events before.
It must be that this book covered the life of Saint Bernadette from a Jewish person's perspective.
The Holy Spirit was working in these words to pass along the incredible life of Saint Bernadette.
Being able to read an account of her last years of life and what Lourdes looked like 20 years later.
Werfel, a highly respected anti-Nazi writer from Vienna, became a Jewish refugee who barely escaped death in 1940, and wrote this moving story to fulfill a promise he made to God. While hiding in the little village of Lourdes, Werfel felt the Nazi noose tightening, and realizing that he and his wife might well be caught and executed, he made a promise to God to write about the “song of Bernadette” that he had been inspired by during his clandestine stay in Lourdes.
Though Werfel was Jewish, he was so deeply impressed by both Bernadette and the happenings at Lourdes, that his writing has a profound sense of Catholic understanding.
That being said, the second half was much better and easier to read, the story of Bernadette's love of "the lady" and how many people tried to stop her, distrust her and her motives, or capitalize on her visions, was so moving, and the fact that the author was a Jew who escaped the Nazis, was hidden in Lourdes where he learned the story of Bernadette and vowed to "sing her song" if he made it safely out of Nazi occupied France made it all the more interesting and touching.
Wow! I want to travel to Lourdes so badly now!
Werfel, a Jew, presents two questions for us in his superb novel.
We can never know if she really saw an apparition of the Virgin Mary, but Werfel concludes she was totally honest in her belief that she had seen Mary.
The Catholic Church concluded they did, when raising Bernadette to the rank of Saint.
Werfel presents the miracles as fact in his novel; it's not clear whether he personally accepted them.
Werfel also makes it a point that onlookers knew when Bernadette was in the presence of the vision, which they could not see, from the expression on her face.
The Author, Franz Werfel, captures Bernadette's story, illuminating her life before, during, and after the apparitions.Bernadette, a pour, sickly girl living in Lourdes, France, was called a liar when she told her closest friend of the woman, "too beautiful for words." To Bernadette's dismay, the word of her visions spread swiftly through the still developing town.
Officials tried in Vain to put a stop to Bernadette's Stories, but as she continued to visit the Lady, word spread even to other countries.
Franz Werfel illuminated Bernadette's story in perfect detail, capturing her dauntlessness, humility, and perseverance.
I had this book on my shelf for a while.
I always thought is would be kind of sappy book for children.
He was clearly moved by the story of Bernadette and her visions.
But what makes the book so interesting is that so many of the characters express their doubts and disgust and what they saw was a spectacle, including many in the Church.
There are also some great discussions between the town's intellectuals who were trying to come to grips with their modernism and an event that some were genuinely moved by.
Whether you're Catholic or not, even if you're not religious, you will be moved by this wonderful story.
A Jewish man on the run from Nazis. He hides in Lourdes France and learns about the Marian apparitions. He promises God that, if he can find safety, he will write a book about Bernadette and the Lady. This is historical fiction. Inspirational.
Ho deciso di leggere questo libro non soltanto perché prima o poi mi piacerebbe andare a Lourdes, ma anche perché mi era piaciuto molto lo stile, il linguaggio e la capacità di narrare un evento storico de I quaranta giorni del Mussa Dagh dello stesso autore.Il canto di Bernadette è scorrevole, commovente, e si ha un quadro completo e dettagliato della vita e le apparizioni di questa santa.Ne consiglierei la lettura anche a chi non è interessato a Lourdes o a santi cattolici perché è comunque coinvolgente e interessante.EnglishAnother amazing book that moved me to tears more than once.
I didn't know anything about her so, seen that someday I would like to go to Lourdes, I thought it would be good to know something about Bernadette, her life and her apparitions.
Her story fascinated me from early childhood when I discovered we had some trivial details in common - birthday, year of the visions was 100 years before my birth, and my own godmother was named Bernardette.
More importantly she herself was a young insignificant girl but worthy of seeing the beautiful lady, whom others deemed to be the Blessed Mother.
Despite my cynicism of most things religious, I have never rejected my belief in the power of the Mother creator.
I loved stepping into the tragic and tumultuous world of Bernardette Soubirous, the instrument of the great Mother's love.
The chapters 'I never loved' and the one following 'I love' are two of the most spiritually moving chapters I have ever read.
I feel like the miracle has continued from the water of the grotto to the words on the pages in those chapters.
I quite frankly, did not anticipate writing those words.
Without those two chapters, the book was interesting in a documentary sort of way, but then it elevated itself above most spiritual classics.
I hope to retain the essence of those chapters with me forever.
I finished this book on a Thursday, for those that have read it.
The author does an amazing job of turning this true story into a novel.
While the story of St. Bernadette can tell itself, this book was still enjoyable just to relive the events that transpired in Lourdes and to think about how the personal interaction and behind the scenes events might have occurred.
The characters are fully developed and engaging, the conversation is believable, and the author seemed to capture the dynamics of the town.
I was slightly disappointed in the actual events at the grotto, but in fairness I'm not sure that they could be effectively captured in fiction by any author - and are probably better left to be understood in the personal writings of St. Bernadette.
This first English edition of the book has always been in my parents' bookcase -- which I was emptying out -- and I decided to read it.
The book is the story of Saint Bernadette of Lourdes, France, to whom the Blessed Virgin Mother of God appeared several times in a grotto.
The Virgin asked Bernadette, then a teen, to tell people to pray for sinners.
Mary identified herself to Bernadette as "I am the Immaculate Conception."This is the true story of Bernadette's life and death.
It is inspiring and a joy to read.

I'm not Roman Catholic, but I found this tale of a young girl who saw visions of The Virgin and who had difficulty convincing the adults around her that she was telling the truth very moving. I could identify with the girl's feelings of powerlessness as I was a young teen when I read it. Coulnd't put it down. Even at 14, I chalked up her experience to religion-induced hysteria, but I still empathized with her inability to get a sincere hearing.
First of all I came to this book only after having seen the movie and I usually like to do things the other way. The movie is really spectacular with an ethereal Jennifer Jones... How could the book be any better? Well it is! It is beautifully written by Franz Werfel and shouldn't be missed for anyone who enjoys reading about Marian apparitions. If you are skeptical, or if you are already convinced - it doesn't matter. It is a beautiful biography of the events at Lourdes in France in 1858.
I had no idea that the author was Jewish. He was a refugee hiding out in Lourdes and was so inspired and moved by St Bernadette that he promised God that he would write her story if he survived the war. It's a beautifully and incredibly moving story. It's so much better than the movie. I'm glad I read it.
Didn't expect to like this much and was surprised. Excellent writing.
The chapters tended to drag a little, but the story itself is beautiful and poignant.
I first read this historical novel about St. Bernadette when I was 8 years old, and I was completely enthralled.
This book started off slow but then really picked up. Well worth reading!
Read this just after coming back from a short stay in Tarbes and visiting Lourdes.Realised that the author was Jewish, but reads as if a Catholic apologia
stunning. the story stays with you long afterwards.
This was well written but I found it annoying.
The author, while fleeing Nazi Germany, came across the story of Bernadette Soubirous, a girl who had visions of the Virgin Mary.
Bernadette lived from 1844 to 1879, and was actually canonized in 1933.
The novel is based on an actual woman, but some of the events, such as the anti-religious prosecutor and some of the people she stayed with, were complete fiction.
Her story should have been enough without making things up.
But the most annoying thing was that the first chapter of the book was written in present tense.
There is a beauty to the Catholic faith and this captures it so well.
I like the simplicity of her faith and visions -- it brings a different kind of honesty to her.
I think I give it a 5 over a 4 just for the story behind the writing of this story.
Sometimes the history of the writing in itself has to be acknowledged and praised.
Thank you, Mr. Werfel for who you were in history and in writing this book, have unassumingly shared your story to a wider audience than I think you ever expected.
A gem of a book that was hard to put down at times and yet hard to finish. Franz Werfel does an admirable job of setting the scene for this miraculous time in history. How extraordinary that in fleeing for his life during WWII from Austria, he hid for a time in Lourdes, France to learn of her life and the 1858 apparitions. Highly recommend.
Though this book was quite long and took me a while to read, it tells a great story, with an insightful point of view. However, the story was very boring at some parts, and I really wanted to stop reading the book, but there were quite interesting parts, which made me want to continue reading the book.
This is a great touching story. It is the true story of the visions of St. Bernadette Soubirous and takes readers to Lourdes, France in 1858. You don't have to be religious to enjoy this story. But you will probably find yourself amazed and touched.
