https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/824938.Churchill
Turns out that I knew very little about Winston Churchill.
His mother was a beautiful American socialite who married the 3rd son of the Duke of Marlborough, a family whose finances are regularly propped up by american heiresses (how very Downton Abbey!).
His education path was turned towards the army because his parents didn't think he was smart enough to be a lawyer!After 3 failed attempts he passes the entrance exam into officer's training for the calvary (he wasn't smart enough for the infantry...
He is regularly the hero of the battle and saves the day.
No offense but can an american ever out write the english?)This is my dilemmia which the biographer neatly passes over.
I like to think that we would have figured gravity out in time without Newton, that the Chinese weren't the only people who could come up with paper, Dewey wasn't the only guy who knew how to put books on a shelf, and that a three-volume epic fantasy saga in which the main character accomplishes nothing of note in the first two volumes would have eventually been attempted by someone other than Patrick Rothfuss.I suppose it's possible we may have avoided World War 2 if Hitler had been admitted to art school, or that the allies would have ended up winning somehow with a cabinet that favored brokering peace with Hitler after France's defeat, but I have to say that in this case, I'm really not so sure.
Mr Gilbert is to be commended not only for writing such a poignant biography of this amazing man but also for managing to boil down so many facts in such an eloquent way.This is not a book to read in a week or two but rather absorbed over quite a long time.
I consider myself to be an amateur historian and am familiar with most of the events encountered in this book, but to experience them again through Churchill's eyes, and indeed his very words, is to understand them on a whole new level.Every time I read a great biography, I am drawn to read others that relate to it.
His works would include but was not limited to a History of the English Speaking Peoples; his own accounts of World War I and II, and a biography of his famous ancestor, John Churchill the 1st Duke of Marlborough.Churchill would enter the Commons as a member of the Conservative Party, his father's party, but would switch to the Liberals.
The career of the man who led his country through war and coined the phrase the `Iron Curtin' while also dreaming of a United States of Europe, would come to a more quite end of resignation and insufficient replacement, as Eden did not last long in power.Martin Gilbert gives us a very 101 look into the life of a great statesman.
I need to discover more about the term 'official biographer.' I assume full access to the subject's personal documents.
Having just read Paul Johnson's abbreviated Churchill bio, replete with ripe commentary and articulated opinion, Gilbert's felt like a compendium of quotes and diary entries in chronological order.
And Churchill's age is almost a character of the book.
I used them both extensively while I read.
All those comments aside, Churchill is an astonishing character; his words and life are worth the time and effort to read.
His wordsmithing is sustenance to my writer-soul.From here, I plan to read Churchill himself.
Foi uma leitura demorada, mas não por ser aborrecida. Foi um daqueles livros em que não queremos chegar ao fim. É um livro extraordinário, sobre um dos homens mais extraordinários de sempre, escrito por um autor/historiador fantástico. Não me parece uma biografia adequada para todos, já que é muito exaustiva e pormenorizada, mas para quem procure conhecer a vida e as muitas facetas do Churchill, é a obra indicada. Não é livro que o santifique, mas que, nas suas falhas, o humaniza. Quanto mais leio do Martin Gilbert, mais quero ler. Quanto mais sei sobre Winston Churchill, mais quero saber.
Books this big, have to be life changing.
Just getting through them changes your life in some small way.
There were times I had to force myself to keep going, and had to make myself keep reading.
You read things you probably never would have found the time for.
Indeed he inspired confidence in gaining it.279 early confidence in winning war205 I have much confidence in my judgment on things.76 I have faith in my star-that I am intended to do something in this world.
Also, the fact that he kept a journal and kept track of everything made a huge difference to his career, I think.
and it will ve convenient to read to any person who gas just started his way on Britain story or First World War.howevr i think that instead of citing letters to his wife it could be more usefull to cover his thoughts.
for example, why Churchill thought that free market and open borders will help to improve life of working class in the Great Britain.
Book just mention that he support free trade and has argues with other parties..in any case it is a good book abd you can freely recommend to any person with varies background knowledge.
I think I was about 400 pages into this 1000 page plus book when it occurred t me that even if his World War II premiership hadn’t happened, Winston Churchill would have still been a fascinating figure.
This is a lengthy but very readable account of the life of Winston Churchill.
It is well worth reading and I would recommend it to anyone with an interest in history, particularly history of Europe and the United Kingdom from the late Nineteenth Century through the beginnings of Cold War.
When he wants a positive comment to be made about something Churchill said or did he brings in the testimony of a contemporary.
I noticed what I thought was the author's bias when it came to Zionism.
Churchill's positive position on Zionism is mentioned on several occasions and though I was pleased to see the coverage I don't know if another author would have found it important to refer to it as many times.
That was a very dramatic period and the author presents it very well.I learned a great deal about Churchill and I am glad to have made his acquaintance.
Usually they are far removed from the events that have shaped my life but Churchill's influence has obviously affected most of Western society during and following WWII.
He had a grasp of world events and the movement of governments and ideologies that seemed beyond a mere individual.
But I think what I liked the most about this book and the portrait it paints of Churchill is the unashamed emotion he had.
I think that passion is why even his rivals in government were drawn to him.
I think this passion is why the people loved him.
This is a very good book for those who want to be finished with knowing Churchill, who is the most dexterous politician in the eyes of many, once for all.
Also downplaying of Churchill's roles in the imperialist policies of UK during the first half of the 20th century, which in my opinion was so harmful, was visible throughout the book, it was like the author was bewildered about those policies and was asking himself whether to cover them or not and if yes, whether to cherish him for those policies or criticise.
Although the book had been written by a Churchill lover, it was a good read with a lot of valuable historical information.
Great! I hatted that I had finished the book. I have come to greatly admire Mr. Churchill. He was highly opinionated, quite stubborn, and a bit of a know it all (even though history proved him right more times than not. I would think him the man of the century. His leadership during WWII was remarkable. He was steadfast during the Battle of Briton. He was always true to his country and his beliefs. HURRAH CHURCHILL!!
Winston Churchill is something - and I was glad to read this biography. That being said, the author seems so enamored with WC that he delivered a sanitized saint -- I would have liked a more critical examination of a truly fascinating individual.
The author used his letters to convey the story, which was fine for the first 100 pages, but then it just got tiring.... The ending was well done.
An honor and a privilege to read this book
This is a wonderful book detailing Churchill's life from his troubled and isolated childhood, through his fighting in the trenches of WWI, his life-long sense of adventure and travel, his decades-long battles in Parliament, and finally, in the darkest days of WWII as British troops were in retreat to Dunkirk, his ascendency as virtually the only choice to lead wartime Britain.
For nearly two years, he stood alone as Britain fought alone against Nazi Germany before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor finally brought the United States into the fight.The book also covers the post-war years, when British voters voted his party out of power after the war, then returned him to office in the early 1950s at age 77.It is a remarkable life.
This is the life of a politician who had a great influence on England and even world history during The Fist and The Second World Wars and subsequently The Cold War.The book tells about Churchill's life minute by minute.
But upon finishing school, completely different Churchill emerged.
Whereas today his country voted to leave European Union.The life of Churchill once again teaches us that Success at school does not mean you will succeed in life, or failure at school does not mean you will not succeed in life.
He entered the army and, even in the field, worked as a journalist with the long-term goal of raising his public profile so he could one day, like his father Randolph, be elected to Parliament.
Throughout his political career Churchill demonstrated great sympathy for ordinary working people, and he sponsored and supported social legislation for such things as a minimum wage, an arbitration court, unemployment insurance, infirmity insurance, the aged pension, and a national health service.
Though he worked them hard and kept very odd hours, he was generally good humoured and could be very entertaining.
She loved him, and so will most who have read this biography, I believe.
Excellent treatment of the entire life of WSCThis volume is required reading for admirers of Churchill.
It spends a good deal of time on his early life, including his failures in school, as well as his successes.
The years of the great war and WWII are followed more closely in Churchill's own books, but Gilbert could not have written a one volume biography and included such detail.
Gilbert clearly accounts WSC' s early career split with the Tories and his return after years in service to a Liberal administration.
Of the three Churchill biographies I have read, this is the most balanced and enjoyable.
Very thorough treatment of the long life of an influential and active political figure/statesman of the 20th century.
Presents the material in a straight-forward way without a lot of discussion or evaluation.
I found it helpful that Gilbert would give additional information in passing.
It struck me as both helpful and unobtrusive.
Given the amount of information in this book, I can only imagine how deep and detailed the complete, multi-volume official biography must be.
I will leave that set for more interested or devoted Churchillians.This is the third book I have read by Gilbert--have enjoyed all three and have a copy more on the to-read shelf.
Given Churchill's long life, eccentricity, multiple talents, and breadth of experiences it is obvious that no single volume could possibly give anything but a sketchy over view and that is all this does.
Unforgivably there is almost no attempt to reflect on his personality, private life before ( or after ) marriage, his sometimes capricious almost manic mood swings and little analysis of many of the more controversial episodes of his long life.
If you want a sketchy over view of Churchill's life this might suit you but if you want more than a two dimensional idea of the man forget it - or be better at reading between the lines than I am.
This book is essentially an encyclopaedia about Churchill.
Even when describing well-known periods, the author found facts and perspectives that amazed me.
However, author stoutly decided his hero is flawless.
Churchill did not make mistakes - it is someone else who did them or a treachery of his friends and allies.
Churchill had not a humble opinion of his person, nevertheless in comparison with the author he was eager to acknowledge his mistakes and responsibility for failures.
Author‘s attitude to the hero ruined impression of the book.
Winston Churchill has perhaps the most incredible body of work of any statesman from any era.
He gave noted military service, possessed parliamentary brilliance, conducted an imaginative prosecution of both world wars, had a remarkable courage of conviction, was a literary genius and much much more.
Gilbert has a lot of material to get through--tackling Churchill in one book is tough to do--but he does an admirable job.
The best thing about this book is the lack of commentary; Gilbert simply tells Churchill's story, much of it through Churchill's own words.
And with such a full and variegated life, that story is consistently engaging.
Muito bom para acompanhar mais alguns detalhes de episódios importantes da historia. No entanto, o livro exalta demais o Churchill - isto é, perde o equilíbrio com relação às suas falhas e defeitos. Deixa tudo um bocado desfocado nesse quesito. O livro fica um pouco árido em alguns capítulos da politica interna para quem não tem a proximidade com o país, naturalmente. Por fim, fica claro que este senhor realmente tinha uma estrela. Trata-se de um personagem extraordinário.
"You ask, what is our policy? I will say: It is to wage war, by sea, land and air, with all our might and with all the strength that God can give us; to wage war against a monstrous tyranny, never surpassed in the dark, lamentable catalogue of human crime. That is our policy." - Churchill in 1940A political figure we should all aspire to learn more about to truly appreciate the freedom & democracy we currently live have.
Truly magnificent book. Churchill is truly deserving of the "great" label. While a behemoth of a book, it is written in such a way that it is easy to engage. I've given up on far shorter books before. Well written, with a central character who is larger than life, I'd recommend this to anyone with the time and the interest to delve in.
A brilliant book about an extraordinary personality. Very easy to read, which is a big plus when you think of all the facts, dates and surnames you follow through the pages. It's hard to imagine how much Chirchill has influenced both lives of his contemporaries and a few generations which followed his death - until you read this book. My 5 star addition to the collection of great biographies.
Complete and excellent biograohtIncredible life of a true statesman of the 20th century. All politicians should be required to read this book. Thorough study of world events in mid century.
An excellent biography of one of the most important figures of the Twentieth Century. I read this on a binge of biographies about the leaders of the world during World War Two. Not only did I enjoy this volume, I learned a great deal from it.
