https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118351.The_Dead_Father
A live wire of PoMo bliss, The Dead Father  reads very much like the source for so many books in the genre that have come after.
I understand Marcus' The Age of Wire and String  much better and now want to re-read it.Having just finished the memoir Double Down written by Don Barthelme's younger brothers, I was able to clearly divine the influence of the troubled relationship Don had with his father in this work.
As in all things father/son, the inverse is not an equal equation.
I wonder if his father read this work before Don's death?
A few days after hearing and reading English the alien says (in his own language, of course): "I can also write a great novel in English."This book could be the novel such an alien could have written.I have never read anything like it before.It tells a story.
Julie criticizes back, says Thomas is too self-absorbed.
Thomas defends himself by saying Emma is goodlooking and, anyway, he and Julie are not married.
Thomas is aroused, accepts Julie's invitation to make love, but nonetheless says it doesn't change the way he thinks.
The height of."Could an Emma do as well?"I don't know, said Thomas.
To understand my rating, you need to do some basic math.Most of the book, I thought was a 3-star deal, mainly because I found some of the sections (particularly the long moments when Emma and Julie talked to each other) to be borderline incomprehensible, and while I'm sure Barthelme knew exactly what he was doing, it was one of those situations where I was holding a book in my hands and processing words and then feeling stupid.
So, 3 stars.But, the 30 (ish) page Manual for Sons inset about 3/4 of the way through was so awesome, I give that 7 stars.
5 stars.
3.5De lo más absurdo y delirante que he leído en mi vida. Diálogos como soliloquios mutilados, oraciones cortas, vacías, y personajes difusos. Barthelme no deja de sorprenderme, aunque prefiero sus relatos.
I can fly then.Well Mr. Smarty-pants what’s it about.Where to beginBegin at the start.It’s not like that.How?Well there’s no plot, the dead father is 7 meters tall or 22 feet, is being dragged by cables by 23 or was 19 people, and he speaks from time to time.How cruel of them to be dragging him.He’s dead doesn’t matter, when he talks he complains, reflects.Does he have a thundering voice?No it’s just normal and he uses normal size items, eats normal size food, his size is only referred to a small amount.Thad and Jill now descend the steps and enter the park.
It is a beautiful book in that way.Barthelme isn't usually interested in the emotional nuances of his characters, who are scarcely characters so much as they are figments of some dream being woven (he treats his characters very much the way Italo Calvino does -- more as products of our collective unconscious than as 'characters').
It is injudicious (as well as unnecessary) to terrify them; you have many other ways of accomplishing that."For all the book's absurdity and mythic humor, Barthelme is clearly speaking to some very deep fears and humbling human problems.
Durante este absurdo viaje se tropezarán con los Wend, que son padres de sí mismos, y darán con el libro Manual para hijos, un libro que trata de explicar cómo enfrentarse a esos seres llamados padres.La lectura de esta novela no es fácil.
Hay momentos en que hay una voz narradora clara, pero que en ciertas partes se pierde, mezclándose los diálogos, algo intencionado por parte de Barthelme, y que te obliga a leer con atención para hacerte una idea de lo que están hablando.
I don't yet understand how he was able to make this so emotional at the end, how so silly got so serious so fast without ruining the experience. I don't yet understand, but I will bygod. I will.
Espécie de irmão menos bem humorado de Hilda Hilst e onde ambos são filhos de Samuel Beckett, Barthelme nos traz uma história arquetípica cheia de experimentalismo de linguagem, mas que infelizmente não chega à excelência de seus pares.
Barthelme comically relates the influence that Greco-Roman and Judao-Christian traditions have had on literature and life in the occidental world..
Dragging this giant carcass through strange countries presents logistical problems and elicits questions from the locals.This absurdist post modern novel is in conversation with other comic works.
Neo-Classicism and High Modernism are lampooned partly for their role as torch bearer for the Greco-Roman and Judeo-Christian values embodied in the dead father.
Neither the novel's humor nor its poignant message suffer for this fact, however, and The Dead Father is both an entertaining and important work.
Plotless postmodern novels, if you believe the hype, aren't supposed to be fun, they're supposed to be think pieces that make you reconsider your epistemological premises, through chilly techniques cribbed from scientific and technical writing, through unconventional word choice, through use of archaisms, slang, high culture, low culture, etc.
and you're supposed to come out of the whole thing not necessarily happier, not necessarily entertained, but more aware.Then, why was The Dead Father one of the funniest, most poignant things I've read in ages?
The Dead Father, on the other hand, tugged on my heartstrings like how David Foster Wallace did, even when it was smashing the English language to pieces.
I remember reading this twice in the '70s, but I didn't remember much about it.
It's a novel about myth and the hero.
The dead father serves as all myth as well as all the cultural weight we've accumulated and lug around with us as we live our lives.
Barthelme probably meant it to be Oedipal and Freudian, the sons wanting to kill the father representing tradition and the daughters striving to change the world and give it direction.
Ultimately Barthelme's text references all the touchstones of western tradition and houses them in the father where they're overthrown.
But reading it I thought mostly of Samuel Beckett.
And that is what struck me as the stylistic eminence of it all: his idiom and sense of humor, while incredibly elegant and effective, are nothing unfamiliar to readers of Joyce, Beckett and Flann O'brien...it's the verse-like tautness that feels original, though admittedly I'm not a big reader of actual prose poems, Baudelaire's might have accomplished this already.
I think Barthelme picked a subject (fatherhood, fathers and children) that was a little too big for his method.
I'm not saying that surrealistic antics can't cohere into profound symbolic depictions of human conditions--Barthelme achieves that at more than a handful of points--I'm just saying the novel didn't seem up to the enormity of the subject's suggestions.
Imagine if you will a plate.
A rather large plate.
In the middle of the large plate a small morsel of postmodern food.
More negative space of plate than actual food.
You scoff at the food.
With a shrug and a roll of the eyes, you take a bite.
A hundred flavors, some you recognize, others you do not, some you miss.
You eat away, the food disappearing, wondering as you are eating what food is this, what are its textures.
When you are finished, you are full but you are not sure why or how it happened.
The plate is empty.
The food is gone.
Donald Barthelme's The Dead Father is a masterpiece of postmodern fiction. A rumination on fathers, life, love, and of course language. Barthelme can make you laugh out loud with his wit and then stop you in your tracks with a turn of phrase. Not to be missed.
He puesto 3 he pensado he puesto cuatroEs una propuesta interesante y arriesgada, pero esperaba másPara mi gusto lector, tiene cosas grandes este libro, muchas, pero pierde parte de su grandeza al intentar condesar demasiado las ideas y sobrepasar el límite de la originalidad A ratos imprescindible, a ratos prescindible. Aun así, recomiendo leerlo porque me encantan las páginas que rompen las normas y estas lo hacen.PD: reconozco que talvez me falta algo de formación en filosofía para acabar de comprender el texto.
друге прочитання. найпостмодерніший роман ДБ, цей і Білосніжка - два його найкращі тексти. багатозначна історія, колаж, іронія і Зіґмунд Фройд, відомий психоаналітик. у російському виданні просто ідеальні примітки (дякую Максу Нємцову). і бульдозери.
Time passes and humankind keeps hauling a corpse of dead traditions, customs, beliefs, misconceptions and rituals along the trail of history...“You are killing me. We? Not we. Not in any sense, we. Processes are killing you, not we. Inexorable processes.” Even if some dogmas and tenets are discarded in the process of the constant progress they don't let us go and we keep carrying this burden of the past on our backs.
Surreal, hilarious, weird and what Barthelme says about the different types of fathers and sons is very very true! Barthelme successfully weaves up a style redolent of the best moments in Beckett, Joyce and even Borges (with many many lists). He even wrote one chapter in a spin-off style of Finnegans Wake. Very cool. One of the hippest writers who ever lived. Check dis out.
Characteristic of most post-modern literature, the Dead Father has virtually no plot at all. Consequently, this book was extremely hard to get into and the read was somewhat laboured. However, that being said, the 'Manual for Sons' excerpt was amazingly written and somewhat redeems this novel. The last few lines also hit quite hard.
Postmodernism is a literary genre that is self-conscious of the reader’s authority over the text.Resembling a Kafkaesque world with a dystopian backdrop, the story was about a surrealistic funeral march (only revealed at the novel’s end) for the Dead Father who believed that his children were bringing him into the “Golden Fleece,” where he would recover not just his life and dominion over the world but also his youth.
It feels as if Barthelme got drunk, wrote this over a weekend, then walked away saying, "well, good enough."This book rants on and on.
There are no quotation marks in the book so it makes it even harder to tell what is dialogue and what is description.
The best part (which isn't saying very much) is the section titled "A Manual for Sons," and even that is convoluted.
The New York Times Book Review said called it "The author's most sustained ambitious, and successful work." If this book is qualified as a "success," it just makes me never want to touch anything else by this author.
That was something.To be clear, there were moments in this book where the narration kind of entered my eyes, passed through the more mundane, yet cavernous, pathways in my brain, and left right out my ears or some other orifice.
But then there were the moments that created neuronal connections that didn't even exist before, and that's what makes this piece of post-modern whackiness so special.
I have come out the end of these one hundred seventy-seven pages with a slightly different mind, if not a bit self-reflective on my role as a living and breathing- and unshackled- father.
Plus it's pretty clear where George Saunders found his initial inspiration.
Postmodern literature is always difficult to review as it is often the author’s purpose to stray from conventional methods of writing.
Their motivation is often hard to interoperate as in this dialogue-heavy novel a lot of what is said comes out very much as a free-flowing stream of consciousness.
What they are trying to accomplish does come out in the very end, but to reach that point the reader has to make their way through 173 pages of obscure dialogue and seeming random placed stories.
As can probably be gathered from this review The Dead Father is a difficult book to follow.
Re-read after a 3-year interval while grabbing something quickly on the way out the door - updated review.Mid-70s Barthelme had just the right contemporary counterculture approach to faintly Dada-ist allegory to impress my teenage self mightily.
On a subsequent reading in adulthood, it seemed a bit facile, but on what I expect to be the final go-round (ars longa, vita brevis and all that), it returns to 80% satisfactory.The Father in question is mainly He of the Judeo-Christian tradition but with a strong admixture of Freud, particularly in the book within a book called "A Manual For Sons".
Barthelme more or less fits in stylistically with Tom Robbins and Kurt Vonnegut and other such mid-70s counterculture writers and can seem a bit facile in retrospect.
We sit with tears in our eyes wanting the Deaf Father to be dead -- meanwhile doing amazing things with our hands."I always appreciate an extended meditation on patricide of the internal papa-super-ego, but by the end I was Barthelmed out.
Do not attend the annual reunions.
Do not drink beer or sing songs at the reunions.
Begin by whispering, in front of a mirror, for thirty minutes a day.
Then tie your hands behind your back for thirty minutes a day, or get someone else to do this for you.
Friends will help you abjure it, and can be telephoned if you begin to backslide.
Some lines and banter I like are below.* * * * *...the embarrassment of sending away those I didn't want, the pain of sending away those I did want, out into the lifestream of the city, nevermore to warm my cold couch...We spent many nights together all roaratorious and filled with furious joy.No, said Thomas, let us be clear.
Away from you.[...]Thomas regarded his orange tights, his orange boots, his new silver belt buckle.Yes!
he said.There's nobody here.I'm here.Yes you but there's nobody else nobody new.Do you want somebody new?I always want somebody new.What's so good about somebody new?He's new.
I always thought that I liked post-modern books. But if it means I should be shuddering in ecstasy while reading books similar to this one, then I would rather not read at all, I guess. Generally, I dont have a problem with complicated books; quite the contrary, I guess. But I do have a problem with works which have the factor of "complexity" in their very center and everything else is just revolving around it. That is what it seemed to me like in this very case. I find Barthelmes writing method
I always thought that I liked post-modern books.
But if it means I should be shuddering in ecstasy while reading books similar to this one, then I would rather not read at all, I guess.
Generally, I don´t have a problem with complicated books; quite the contrary, I guess.
I find Barthelme´s writing method in this book as a very autotelic one and while I cannot say that it was a totally unpleasant experience, it sure as hell was not a pleasant one either.
The idea of a uncertain, mysterious figure being drawn by his relatives to get buried, as well as some of the ideas and anecdotes scattered throughout the book, are all pretty intriguing.
Barthelme hits every note just so, commenting in perfect pitch on humanity's place in religion and history and morality, the cruel nature of identity and gender and time, and the strange dynamics upon which relationships are constructed-- doubly strange and harsh and immovable in family relationships.
Despite the frankly harrowing nature of the story, particularly toward the end, a suggestion to not take the ostensibly serious aspects of anything too seriously speaks up through Barthelme's whimsical telling.
Even at the darkest of times, life and the consequent fear of death are silly constructs.
Crazy shit goes on in this book.
But it's hilarious crazy shit.
Though there are many intellectual indulgences in this book, you begin to identify emotionally with The Dead Father and his traveling circus of a family.In one case, to enter a land that does not allow "fathers," dead or alive, they allow the Dead Father's leg to be cut off and barbecued.
Hey it's either kill the Dead Father or barbecue his leg.
This is the enjoyable and uproarious humor of "The Dead Father." It's the kind of book you want to listen to or read again because it's undeniably hilarious.
