https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11607446-the-wishing-spell
4.5*This was SO much fun! Such a quick and engaging read. I loved how all the fairy tales I know and love were incorporated into the story. I actually listened to the audiobook, which is read by Chris Colfer, and it really enhanced my reading experience. I will admit, I found the writing at times to be a tad lackluster, but that was mostly a problem with showing vs. telling that I think can be attributed to the fact that it's a middle grade novel. I think this is a series I will definitely be continuing!
The world that Chris Colfer introduces us to is filled with magic, charming creatures and familiar names of princesses, princes, fairytale heroes and heroines.Although I’m one of those readers who can read anything from children’s books to mature adult books, it doesn’t mean I like everything I stumble across.
deep.‘‘The Land of Stories: The Wishing Spell’’ has a lot to offer: an enthralling adventure, relatable heroes, a scavenger hunt like never before seen, lots of encounters with our favourite fairytale characters and, most of all, the type of storyline that offers something new with every new chapter.Granted, Alex and Conner do find most of their objects in a relatively easy manner and short amount of time; they’re offered help everywhere they go.
I had to laugh at the latter because I was thinking the same thing, and the former because it was a clever way to portray how modern children would react to villains from old stories they knew well.Colfer does not engage with faerie tales in a meaningful way.
Colfer turns beloved faerie tale characters into ineffectual twits.
The twins mostly storm from kingdom to kingdom telling the monarchs that they suck at being monarchs (unless they're busy being good wives and mothers), and solve simple problems for them that make the faerie tale characters seem like jokes rather than complex figures.The land of stories is not a Hogwarts, Narnia, or Oz--both terrifying and delightful.
When Alex accidentally falls into the book and Conner jumps after her, the twins find themselves in a world that is at once familiar and foreign - familiar, because they've grown up reading stories about the kingdoms of this fairytale world; and foreign because suddenly they are faced with the aftermath of "Happily Ever After": Goldilocks is a wanted fugitive; the big bad wolf may be dead but his pack is very much alive and hellbent on revenge; and the evil queen that almost succeeded in murdering Snow White has escaped from her prison.Desperately trying to find their way home the twins start gathering a number of magical items in the hopes of successfully performing "The Wishing Spell".
Chris Colfer is an actor on the television show Glee, and this book reads like a long drawn out screenplay.
)The similes go on and on and on and on...Lack of revision.If Colfer spent any time at all revising this novel we would not see the following phrase appear so often:"Steam was practically coming out of the teacher's ears and nostrils." pg.75"Steam was practically coming out of their nostrils." pg.
'I feel like I might get diabetes from just looking at that place." Overall, the story is so horribly written that I BEG Colfer's editor to help him make the next book in the series a bit smoother.
I picked this book up at the airport because I was trying to convince my ten year old brother to start reading more imaginative stories and less...
Diary of a Wimpy Kid.I figured I'd read it first and see what it was like.
And, good thing it did, because this book was very...
The plot and the fairytale world was good enough, but the whole story was quite bland.
Everything tied too neatly, the characters weren't defined as well, the fairytales felt like an afterthought, and it sort of felt like I was reading the Magic Tree House.
Have you read Diary of a Wimpy Kid?
Chris Colfer is a great author!I decided to pick up this book because there is not a day that goes by at my job that I am not asked for a book in this series (seriously, everyday they want The Land of Stories, second only to Harry Potter and Dog Man).
When their grandmother comes to visit them, she gives them her fairy tales book The Land of Stories.
But what happens later is crazy, the twins fall into the book and find themselves amongst famous fairy tale characters!
The synopsis of this book showed such a fun, interesting idea, and the artwork is done by one of my favorite book artists.
I began reading it to see if my daughter would enjoy it, because she gets easily bored with books.
He makes such an effort at the beginning of the book to point out that stories, fairy tales in particular, are meant to teach us a lesson.
And then his own book does nothing to teach us a lesson.
The smart sister fills in answers for her brother on a test so he won't get in trouble for another bad grade.
I wanted to read this book and like it, but I just couldn't finish it.
The way the book talked about fairy tales made me want to grind my teeth.
The emphasis on "all fairy tales have a moral and there is only one correct interpretation" really was what made me give up on this book.
While yes, with the surge of literary fairy tales in the 18th and 19th centuries, many tales were appropriated for children and given clear morals, there's no way to say that the stories were intended to be viewed this way.
If they read your book they can figure out a lot more than you're giving them credit for.
Os Gémeos da FantasiaAlex é uma jovem solitária, "demasiado esperta para seu próprio bem".Connor é sarcástico, dissonante, rebelde...Dois Gémeos sem mundo, descobrem o Mundo em Terras de Fantasia!Não é esse o poder encantador das estórias?! Mergulham-nos em mundos não nossos, onde nos encontramos e perdemos deliciosamente!!!“There is this idea that you either read to escape or you read to find yourself.”I believe that both things happen ;)A leitura é um voo exterior, rumo à verdade interior!"O Feitiço Dos Desejos" é uma viagem arrebatadora por Terras de Fantasia :)
Thier father owns a bookstore, their mother is a pediatric cancer nurse, and they've grown up with among the fairy tales that were read to them by their grandmother.
Alex and Connor get a surprise when their Grandmother comes for a visit on their twelfth birthday.
I quickly found myself spellbound, lost in a world full fairy tale characters, completely caught up in an exciting and perilous journey with twelve-year-old brother and sister twins, Connor and Alex, as they try to navigate through a strange, yet familiar world in search of a way back home.
Writing felt annoyingly clunky, and not in a juvenile way (though I did think the writing explained EVERY LITTLE THING.
The dialogue felt too rigid, and all those he said, she saids annoyed me (maybe more because it was an audiobook, complete with voice actors?) I have a feeling Colfer made Alex and Connor twins just so he could refer to them as "the twins" when that wasn't even necessary.This book just felt like it was preaching to me: Disney renditions of fairy tales are silly!
I didn't even think some of them made sense.(view spoiler)[How can you not recognize your father's handwriting??
For some reason, despite reading quickly and the story going by smoothly, every time I looked at my page numbers I felt like I had only read 10 pages.
I think that's because so much happens in these pages and none of the events themselves were particularly long, so it went by "slow" in terms of page numbers.A lot of this wasn't super memorable but I really enjoyed it nonetheless.
I liked the fairytale aspect especially, particularly the fact that some stories kept true to the real fairy tale and not the movie versions of them.
I think the fairytale aspect and the world itself were the most memorable parts to me.
He sings way better than he writes.However, all the problems I have with this book are age-related.
There are no shortage of similar sloppy holes present in the narrative.The thing that annoyed me the most is Colfer's claims about fairy tales at the beginning.
Both Alex and the teacher act like fairy tale experts, but they run into walls at every turn as they chase down the "correct morals" that need to be brought out of a text.
His whole understanding of fairy tales reeks of modernity, and yet he slams the kids at the beginning of the book for that very fault.
Maybe not.The good parts:* There were some really good and funny quotes.The bad parts:* The teacher at the start made me really, really angry.
And as an aspiring teacher, I want to say right now: If you ever catch me rolling my eyes "all the way back into the head" because of a young student who was unsure of something, fire me on the spot.* Really simple writing.
(hide spoiler)]I like Chris Colfer as an actor and as a person (AND I FEEL BAD ABOUT NOT LIKING THIS), and this is not a horrible book.
After a couple of chapters I always felt like I had to give my head a little time to digest what I had just read; walk through it again in my imagination; make up my own little picture of the kingdoms, the landscape, the people, remember how my younger self sometimes imagined all of these things to be.I know, some might not be as passionate about this book as I am, but that's probably because they never experienced fairy tales the way I did when I was little.
All I can say to "The Land of Stories" is: Thank you Chris Colfer, for bringing fairy tales back into a world and into a generation that truly needs them.
I can see why many wonder about it being another celebrity using a ghost writer but Chris Colfer has been into writting for far longer than you think.
While not professionally, and it's fun because he didn't do professional acting before Glee and a short movie and ressulted excelent on it, he's done work adapting musicals and being on the writers club at his school.
One has to admire the man for making his own paths in the industry if the industry doesn't give him the chances.
That'll be also another showcase for his writting but ALSO will be released later this year.
Give him a chance.
So many little things bothered me, and would totally have bothered me when I was young, too.
What did the twins eat?
Not for jaded & impatient me, but good for some.Oh, a little confusion about the intended age of the child reader.
It's written as if for age 6 & up, but is very long, and has a bit of mature content that would bother the most sensitive of the under 10s.
I think it's too complex for that age, that stage of a child's development.
The twins are, after all, 11.I imagine the writer becomes more skillful as he writes more.
This is my #1 favorite series of all time, I am now ashamed to say that I didn't even want to read this book at first.
But now I have up for that and read those books so many times that its hard to count.
In the series my favorite characters are: (WARNING: get ready to sit here for an hour!)Connor BaileyGoldilocks Queen Red Riding Hood (commonly known as Red)FroggyFairy Godmother Old Mother Goose (OMG)BreeCyborg QueenCaptain Auburn Sally Alex Bailey(And so many more that it would bore you if I listed all of them!)Ok, and I am just adding, I would totally recommend this book to ANYONE.
I was recommended this book by quite a few people when I did my middle grade recs video. Unfortunately, I did not enjoy this at all and ended up DNF'ing pretty early on. This is the first book I've DNF'd this year but I just couldn't do it. I think I'd enjoy this book if I were a lot younger. It's not bad by any means, I just don't think I'm the intended reader. The writing style read a little young for me, but I think if you're someone who absolutely loves fairytales you might like this.
Being a fan of Glee and generally supportive of all the cast (and being a huge fan of children's fantasy novels) I decided to read this book.I found the writing to be of extremely poor quality for several reasons.1) The sentences were far too simplistic, even for a children's bookFor example he uses "Connor said" or "Alex said" every single time they speak.
2) As someone else mentioned, Colfer simply tells the reader what is happening rather than showing us, as the writing completely lacks imagination.
He definitely needs to develop some proper writing skills before publishing a sequel, and should not have published something so bad so quickly.
It was fast paced and kept me hooked!At first I was a little hesitant as I stick to YA and don't read middle grade books.
This was marketed as a middle grade/YA and sounded interesting and so I picked it up.This book was amazing!
Each character was complex with their own background story.I had so much fun travelling around the Land of Stories with Alex and Conner and I will definitely be purchasing all 5 remaining books in the series!Also, Froggy is so cute, I love him so much!
Reseña completa en el blog: La cueva de Danny.No importa cuánto te han herido o cuánto estás sufriendo, lo que verdaderamente importa es lo que haces con el dolor. Podrías llorar por años y con razón, o podrías elegir aprender de él y crecer.¡Me ha encantado! El libro es bastante entretenido y rápido de leer, con muchas aventuras, cuentos de hadas, grandes personajes, un mundo maravilloso, me sorprendió en varias partes y fue más de lo que esperaba, la verdad, próximamente reseña completa en el blog. ¡Solo leeanlo!
I really tried to like this book. I just couldn't do it. The dialogue and narrative is stilted, and the descriptions are just weird sometimes. (I'm still trying to figure out how metal chains "rustle".) Despite all this, I might have liked the book if the characters were even remotely likable or realistic. They weren't. Every character was so fake. I couldn't make it past chapter three. I tried. I really did, but this book just had too many fundamental problems.
Absolutely and totally loved reading this!
Una historia muy bonita y entretenida♥VIDEO RESEÑA (sin spoilers) + CONCURSO PARA GANAR EL LIBRO (arg): https://youtu.be/9QIdAaU1bn0
This is my younger sisters favorite series of all time and while I didn't love it as much as her, I still did love the characters and how fun it was overall. I have one problem, it being that I dislike Mr. Colfer's writing, it felt choppy to my taste, but since I REALLY enjoyed this I think a rating of 3.75 stars would do my feelings justice!
IT'S SO INCREDIBLY GOOD WHERE IS THE NEXT ONE!?
I have attempted to review this book as fairly and impartially as I do all the novels I read.There is no question that this story is entertaining.
While I felt sympathy for the Evil Queen, I would not, as many of the characters did, pardon her actions.The characters pop off the page.
His way of pointing out fairytale plot holes and absurdity is both enlightening and hilarious.In comparison to other fantasy novels for this age range, such as Percy Jackson and Septimus Heap, Land of Stories simply does not measure up.
Not one of my favourite books, but I still really enjoyed the imaginative and evocative fantasy elements throughout this story. Definitely a book worth checking out.
“A villain is just a victim whose story hasn’t been told.”   This one breaks my heart, I was sure this would be a higher rating. The Wishing Spelltook me forever to finish, I really pushed on it. I probably should have given up after awhile but I was trying so hard to convince myself that I liked this book. Why would I do that? Mostly because this book should have won me over so easily. It had all my favorite elements: middle-grade adventure, fairytale-retelling and lots of fun recognizable ch
It had all my favorite elements: middle-grade adventure, fairytale-retelling and lots of fun recognizable characters.
At first I was going to give this book some slack because it's for a younger audience (6-12 probably) but I really couldn't do that because middle-grade should be held up to the same standard as anything else.
I think he put too many characters into one book and so we really couldn't get to know most of them that well.
I know a lot of people really like this series and this would probably be a fun read for younger children.
ORIGINALLY PUBLISHED AS A STARRED REVIEW ON SHELF AWARENESSChris Colfer is the Golden Globe–winning actor with a soprano's pitch on Glee, but his enchanting storytelling will earn him an audience beyond those who've enjoyed his renditions of "Defying Gravity" and other hit songs.This story does not begin with "Once upon a time." A prologue reveals Snow White visiting her imprisoned stepmother, the Evil Queen, in a dungeon, ready to explain her cruel intentions.The protagonists, the Bailey twins, are well versed in fairy tales, but hold different views on them.
This was just as much fun as I remembered. I can't wait to finally dive into the sequels. Perfect for fans of the TV show ONCE UPON A TIME.
I can't believe that they have a page for this book. it's not coming out till next year. when it comes out I'm so buying this book. It's great that Chris Colfer is expanding his horizion with Glee, making a movie, making a pilot for Disney and writing 2 books. My bb is going far
Alex y Conner Bailey son unos mellizos que no tienen nada en común. Mientras Alex es una niña aplicada, seria y que disfruta mucho de aprender, Conner es más amiguero, y aunque no sea un niño tonto, no era muy bueno en clases. Pero si algo tienen en común es su conocimiento sobre historias y cuentos de hadas, ya que su padre antes de morir, siempre les contaba historias que les hiciera sentir mejor o que les enseñara una lección.Para su doceavo cumpleaños (y un año de haber perdido a su padre
Pero lo mejor de todo, es que les dio como obsequio el libro de "La tierra de las historias" que ella o su padre siempre les leía.Pero...
Los personajes conocidos mostrarán lados que nos hubiéramos imaginado de ellos, y los personajes nuevos crecerán en sus corazones con el paso de las páginas.Es un libro de Middle Grade, pero siento que lo disfrutarían las personas de cualquier edad, ya que hasta por nostalgia sería agradable leer sobre esos cuentos de hadas que conocemos desde siempre.
Through this quest the twins meet a very pregnant Cinderella, a very vain Red Riding Hood, a few King Charmings, and a host of other well known fantastical characters.Anyone who knows me know that I love a good retelling and apparently the publisher was describing this one as “The Chronicles of Narnia meets Shrek.” Besides the falling through a wardrobe book to a fairy tale land, this book is nothing like Narnia.
However, while Chris Colfer was reminding me of all of the things I love about these former retellings, he was also showing me something different.
The girl is a book worm that pays attention in class, the boy sleeps in class, doesn't care about school, but by the sheer power of his being male, he has it all over his sister when it comes to getting the right answers or creative inturpretation.It looks like no fact checking was done, The children are in a high enough grade to all be expected to read chapters from their text, and talk about subtext and metaphor, but they are studying fairy tales (Pre-K to Kindergarden).
Initial Excitement:I freaking love Chris Colfer, so excited for this!My Review:The Land of Stories was a delightful tale for anyone who ever enjoyed any fairy tale whatsoever.
Alex and Conner were realistic children who had to track down some impossible items, and reading about their journey was really fun.First off, this book is gorgeous.
So, if you need a book to put on display, this one is for you!Even though it was a Middle Grade novel, there were some raunchy innuendos every once in a while.
The beginning starts off with some sad memories, but the children developed over the course and at the end were happy.
One plus of this novel included Colfer not going out of his way to bring the twin’s father back to life.
All the kingdoms in the land combined make up the Happily Ever After Assembly and are ruled over by Rapunzel, Snow White, Sleeping Beauty, Cinderella and Little Red Riding Hood.
Even Harry Potter didn’t hit the 400 page mark until people started getting killed off, and by then Rowling’s characters were teenagers.
The great thing about children’s adventure stories are how the characters use their brains and ingenuity to get out of problems.
This Wishing Spell is a middle-grade book that combines all famous fairy tales in a wonderful and unique way.
But that's how things are in fairy tales.
And the tone of the book is fairy tailish too.
Finally, I'd like to address the issue some reviewers had with an actor being the author of this book.
An actor was president of the US.
Why not show creativity in another human endeavor such as writing?
I didn't see a sign in Hollywood "Actors can't write." I think anyone can do anything if they are good at it.
And Chris Colfer certainly can write well.
Keď som sa dopočul, že Colfer bude vydávať knihu, myslel som si, že to bude presne tá kniha od nejakej celebrity, ktorú ani dotyčná osoba vskutku nenapísala, proste len aby boli money.
Čarovné zaklínadlo je presne tá kniha, ktorú si chcete prečítať a ktorej všetky tie reklamy vôbec neklamú.
Presne ako sa hovorí na obale, tejto knihe nesiaha Disney ani po členky a ja sa neviem dočkať, kedy to uvidím ako film, ktorý (ak sa bude držať knihy, dúfajme) bude lepší než čokoľvek disneyovského.
Pol hviezdičku strhávam za to, že niektoré akčné scény som už nebral ako akčné, nakoľko som vždy vedel, že to akosi dobre dopadne, ale inak proti knihe nemám vôbec nič.
During an argument over Jack (as in, and the Beanstalk) Goldilocks and Red Riding Hood call each other the following words: floozy, harlot and hussy.
I swear, I don't normally get worked up about inappropriate content in a children's book or movie.
And yes, it's technically middle grade, which is 8-12, but I didn't know about a lot of sexual things until I was 12 or older, and besides, with how low the reading level of this has got to be, kids younger than that would be reading it.
So I can really only recommend this book to middle schoolers or high schoolers who have a love of fairytales and low reading levels.
It was really interesting and fun to read
Ce-are toată lumea de aici? De ce toți cei pe care-i întâlnim vor să ne mănânce? Poate să-mi explice cineva de ce se tot întâmplă chestia asta?
Imprumutata de la Biblioteca RacariPrimul sfert din carte nu m-a captivat, dar dupa... dupa... woaaa!! Sper ca Nemi va traduce si celelalte volume.- Cred ca ceea ce am invatat din toata povestea asta e ca personajele malefice sunt, in general, oameni obisnuiti impinsi la rau de imprejurari, spuse Alex.
