https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3764.From_Russia_With_Love
(A-) 83% | Very GoodNotes: James Bond fights the 'soft life' but ironically becomes soft: ditching sense to reattain love, adventure and friendship.
The notion that the KGB is able to trick HMSS into getting involved in the plot sounds asinine -- Tatiana is supposed to have fallen in love with Bond from reading his file and looking at a picture; no one from M on down questions this story because women are just that brainless.
And of course, despite knowing she's just on the job, Tatiana instantly falls for James, practically bursting into genuine tears when he starts questioning the motives of her defection (and within a few days is, yes, asking him to beat her if she gets too fat because she is happy in their relationship.
From Russia With Love is the fifth book in Ian Fleming's James Bond series.
When the novel first came out, President Kennedy dubbed it his favorite book, increasing it in popularity and spurring Fleming to write more James Bond cases.
Rather than the non stop action Bond fans are used to on screen, Fleming uses the entire first half of the book detailing the Russian plot and creating a psychological buildup for the ensuing action.
Being the world's top spy, James Bond always gets his man and woman in the end, and it is fun reading about his adventures.
What I learned from this book (in no particular order): 1. The ideal Soviet master assassin is a man who is:a. the offspring of a German wrestler and a Southern Irish hooker;b. extremely muscular and hairy;c. possessed of a high threshold for pain;d. manic during the full moon; ande. asexual (“Sexual neutrality was the essence of coldness in an individual”) --- but love to parade around naked.2. Ugly women are mannish and have breasts that looked like badly packed sandbags, and when they pull ba
If you are a virile Gypsy man, you could have girls fight to the death naked for you, and then get to keep the winner until her breasts fall off.11.
Bond is a master spy, but also a man who gets scared during a turbulent flight, has doubts about the moral fallout of his mission (“What would he think of the dazzling secret agent who was off across the world in a new and most romantic role --- to pimp for England?”), and has genuine tendre for the woman whom he is supposed to seduce.
The second time I read it was on a train in Switzerland between Bern and Brig.
This just so happens to be part of the route of the train included in the climactic scene in the book.
You might say “but Matthew, it says right here this is book 5 in the series!” I will say for the person who wants to do the hardcore Bond route, start at the beginning with Casino Royale.
But, if you are just feeling casual and not sure you want to commit to the whole series, you can start here.
If I’m getting catfished by Google, somebody please let me know.Anyway, this is a great book!First of all, oddly, we don’t even see Bond until about 60 pages in.
This is a fun page turner.Of course even though this is a review of Ian Fleming’s 1957 novel, I would be remiss if I did not also mention Terence Young’s ultra-cool 1963 Bond film starring Sean Connery and Robert Shaw.
Connery has said that this was his favoriet Bond film.** Side note: Who was the coolest: Sean Connery, Steve McQueen or Paul Newman?
This really needs to be remade. To help move things along, I've mocked up a poster and a few seconds of dialogue for the teaser trailer...
I thought Fleming did a good job showing how someone like Grant, a killer who enjoys killing and has absolutely no morals works hard to please his Russian masters and actually has to undergo things he doesn't like (school and learning) in order to get where he wants to be (SMERSH's #1 killer).We meet Rosa Klebb, evil lady torturer.
Fleming also uses bisexuality to induce "fear and disgust" in the reader, showing that Klebb is a "pervert" who will satisfy her sexual urges with either men or women.Lastly, we have Tatiana Romanov,(24, brown hair, blue eyes, Bond will be her 4th lover) a stunningly beautiful and innocent and goodhearted member of SMERSH (WTF?).
If you are an American reading this book in 1957 you should either 1) run like Hell from the Evil Russkies or 2) Vote for a larger and larger Defense Budget, 3) begin building your bomb shelter, and 4) buy lots of guns.Now, it is true Russia is the home of Stalin, one of the most murderous totalitarian leaders in history, and it may be true that there may have been upwards of 40,000 SMERSH anti-spy agents killing people both within and without the former Soviet Union, consistent with Stalin’s scorched earth approach to governing resistance, but make no mistake about it, books like Fleming’s helped fuel the Cold War through fear.Fleming is not John le Carré or Graham Greene, moral philosophers of spy stories; he is writing a fun thriller, cooking his ingredients to lean more and more toward silly pulp territory and away from a noir feel.
From the Telegraph's Andrew Martin 06 Aug 2014:"Scientists at the University of London have concluded that the key to happiness is having low expectations.
Now five books deep into James Bond, I've just figured out how to enjoy these books.
I'm also not going to be reading John le Carré.
This is James Bond dammit.
You are going to get James Bond.
Well, babe, this is THAT novel and James is your man.It all reminds me of a quote from Christopher Hitchens I recently read:“Fleming once confessed that he hoped to “take the story along so fast that nobody would notice the idiosyncrasies.” Fat chance.
In ways this is my favorite Bond book so far. Not sure why. Perhaps because the writing feels a bit more mature...in ways. Fleming spends a lot of time developing the backgrounds of the villains. Bond doesn't come actively on to the scene until well into the book.The pacing feels slow for the first two thirds, then it gets ramped up for the end. The plot is straight forward and even intentionally telegraphed, so it will probably bore modern day readers.
Rating: 4.5* of fiveIt's the 1963 movie with Sean Connery that I'm rating. I tried reading Casino Royale recently, and found it dated and even more sexist and racist than I was expecting. I'll stick to the movies. Connery's nice to look at. The gadgets are hilarious, and so is Q. The theme songs are great.
I feel guilty reading these books for a variety of reasons.
Three, I think I'm reading a first edition (the real owner of these books stole/borrowed them from a distant relative) and they are disintegrating in my hands as I read them.
Is it sacrilege to destroy a 1st edition Bond book?
The most surprising thing about these books is Fleming's prose.
His descriptions evoke a wonderful sense of place and character as you read.
I think he does better with the femme fatal characters rather than puppy love.
Must read more.
My biggest complaint with FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE—aside from the usual male chauvinism and innocent women who need a real man—I was well into this novel (over a third of the way) before Bond made his appearance.
I’d have been happier with much less, frankly, and I would have kept a few more sanity points.I even debated skipping ahead, but since I’ve approached my task of reading the entire Bond series the way one might approach a calculus exam, I trudged onward, even if there were times in the beginning where my unhappiness reached a near monumental level.And then Bond showed up in all of his male glory and all was right with the world.
If not it may seem strange that the beginning of the book has absolutely nothing to do with James Bond, but instead you are taken behind the scenes at the Kremlin and into the workings of SMERSH.
Soon Bond appears and learns of a Russian lovely who wants to defect in order to be with her dream date, Bond of course, to sweeten the deal she is going to bring the Soviet version of the Enigma machine to hand MI6 all of the Soviet codes.
And the book ends in a cliff hanger will Bond survive.
In fact, I would probably abandon the series, if I wasn't on this quest to investigate the myth of Bond for myself, away from the legend created by the films and the franchise, and also if wasn't so much fun to read this as a buddy read.So, let me count the ways in which I hate this book - I hope you have time, it's quite a list:1.
There is no need for that though, because Fleming merely created Tatiana as an object of desire for Bond to play with, and besides, why would women have any thoughts about anything other than how they looked?"In fact Corporal Tatiana Romanova was a very beautiful girl indeed.
***2018 Summer of Spies*** ”At 7:30 on the morning of Thursday, August 12th, Bond awoke in his comfortable flat in the plane-tree’d square off the King’s Road and was disgusted to find that he was thoroughly bored with the prospect of the day ahead.”Having just recently finished Lycett’s biography of Ian Fleming, the above passage sent me flipping through my notes about that author, where I found this quotation that I had noted:”After his death his widow Ann put it in much the same way. “You mu
”At 7:30 on the morning of Thursday, August 12th, Bond awoke in his comfortable flat in the plane-tree’d square off the King’s Road and was disgusted to find that he was thoroughly bored with the prospect of the day ahead.”Having just recently finished Lycett’s biography of Ian Fleming, the above passage sent me flipping through my notes about that author, where I found this quotation that I had noted:”After his death his widow Ann put it in much the same way.
He stood for working out a way of life that was not boring and he went where that led him.
Bond wasn’t in this part at all and only mentioned when the Russians were plotting to murder a jolly good gent from the British Secret Service with them plumping with Bond because, well why not?!The second part involved Bond (finally introduced nearly half way through) and M suspecting there is a trap set for them to retrieve a woman damsel in distress from the Russian side as she is in love with Bond, even though the two have never met, and wants to bring across lots of secrets.
This was my first James Bond novel that I've read and I want to read more.
I've always enjoyed the James Bond movies, but now I have this new world to delve into.
I'm not sure what I was expecting....I just didn't want the books to ruin my movie experiences.
So I'm glad that in some ways this is different than the silver screen Bond, but I felt like all the other characters were the same in personality and support.
It was a nice mix of different/same.
For such a short book, that worried me a little.
"Kronsteen" does of course sound like "Bronstein", but the cold, remorseless spy-master of the Bond book is completely unlike the shy, poetic genius of real life.
A committed Stalinist with many allies in the top levels of the Party, he was famous for his unemotional, logical attitude to the game.
He's in the middle of an important game, and he's doing well.
He's surprised his opponent with a new move in the Meran variation (Botvinnik often played the Meran; Bronstein, hardly ever), and SMERSH send a message to say that his presence is urgently required.
Quintessential Bond - This is the best one yet!The Soviet CIA group known has SMERSH hatch a plan to assassinate Bond by using young Tatiana Romanova as bait.The first third of the novel just focuses on the group and their motivations for picking Bond.I felt that it gave such a fascinating extra layer to the story.Apart from a brief recap of the past 4 adventures, this book easily standalone and would be a perfect introductory point for someone wanting to try one of Fleming’s novels.
but I will prevail!).So most interesting, in the movie the group that's after Bond is the non-specific SPECTRE (SPecial Executive for Counter-intelligence, Terrorism, Revenge, and Extortion), whereas in the book it's the very, very Soviet organization SMERSH (...mumble mumble mumble something Russian mumble mumble...
Good luck with that, film industry.Doesn't matter what they're called, they are a mean, lean killing machine.And when they get a lady involved, then it's all just about sex.This book has taken the sexism to a whole new level in which Tatiana makes some comment about getting fat, and will Bond beat her if she gets too fat that he can't have sex with her, and he totally says he will.
We get lots of Russian political machinations and the background of all the villains (and the love interest, Tatiana Romanova) before Bond is even introduced.
Fleming was writing before Political Correctness was a blip on anyone's radar, so the books are chock-full of cringe-inducingly racist and sexist stereotypes.
But if you can embrace them as the guilty pleasure they are, I think they are well worth reading, and From Russia with Love is a taut little thriller where the early chapters before Bond even appears are some of the most interesting.
This book was unusual for two reasons: 1. James Bond doesn't even show up until over a third of the way through. 2. It ends on a cliffhanger.That being said, this was a good read. The basic plot is that SMERSH, the Russian "death to spies" organization, is out to assassinate James Bond. They use a beautiful, young agent to distract him while a psychopathic agent commits the deed. I liked this even if I thought the ending and beginning were a little strange. (Especially the ending.) If you're a Bond fan, you'll enjoy it.
I think I was about seven.
We had a copy of this book lying around the house, and Mom told me not to read it, it was totally dumb, but of course I did anyway.
I thought it was kind of cool, especially how they had the grandmaster plan the honey trap.
Really I wanted it to work, and I was a bit annoyed that Bond got away again.That weekend, Mom had invited a lesbian couple over for dinner (we were living in the Bay Area at the time).
Don't let your daughters read this book until they're old enough to have acquired some sense.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
Little does she know that the actual plan is to humiliate MI6 by staging a murder-suicide between her and her escort, James Bond.This is technically a review of the Simon Vance audiobook, but it's an unabridged reading.The Good: Action scenes: Fleming writes them so well.
That penultimate scene with the top SMERSH killer is my favorite scene in the book.Feel: It has that compulsively-readable, fast-paced, insubstantial, not-probable-but-not-quite-absurd, spy thriller feel.Villians: Red Grant and Rosa Klebb do rank up there.
However, in this book he acts with such little care.
I recommend it to fans of fast-paced thrillers.
Though Bond is used to finding women and trouble on the job, perhaps this is the first time they found him first.
This installment was like a breath of fresh air!
Bond seems more human in this story.
I know that Bond is famous because of his flawless ability to get the job done, but it's kind of nice to have a reminder that even the best are human and make mistakes as well.
I also liked the insight of the U.S.S.R. government that the opening gives the reader.
Overall, a great addition to the series, and one of my favorites.
It was, of course, the cover that compelled me to purchase it, I think most of us are guilty of judging a book in this manner.
The covers, the titles, all left me in awe of what the life of a fictional spy might be like.
It had to be exciting to be a spy; each cover told me so, how could they be wrong.
It was a wonderous adventure and I scrimped and saved and worked as a child to get them all.It is still my favorite from the entire Bond/Fleming collection.Devlin
My chronological journey through the world of the original James Bond novels continues with the fifth novel to be written and published, and widely held as the beginning of the best part of the entire series.
After considering several countries’ intelligence programs to target, they settle on Britain’s MI-6 and who better than the famous James Bond.The first 1/3rd of the novel and perhaps a bit more is all build-up, from the Russian’s point of view, their leadership, their assassins, etc.
