https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2748.Microserfs
I was a dorky high school kid, but not dorky in any way much connected to computer programming, so there was no reason for me fall for a book about a bunch of cynical Microsoft employees living in pre-tech boom Silicon Valley.But I loved it.
I was too introverted in college and made the mistake of living alone, and I would read this and yearn for that kind of connection and camaraderie.
It is big and sloppy and emotional and I don't know if I am still big and sloppy and emotional enough to love it liked I used to.Sure, favorite book.

Reasons why I love both this book and Douglas Coupland:1.
This book is totally the original Big Bang Theory.4.
Dated references to things like Doom and Myst.5.
I enjoy reading nerdy lists of things, like which school is the nerdiest (answer: (view spoiler)[Caltech (hide spoiler)]) or what cereal is the most decadent (answer: (view spoiler)[NOT Count Chocula, because he is gay for Frankenberry and pro bringing down the ruling class (hide spoiler)]).6.
I enjoy reading references to places I've been, like the Westin Bayshore, because I know exactly what it looks llike!7.
If this book were featured on jeopardy its categories would be:NerderyApple vs.
I don't know where I got that idea, but this is an optimistic book, full of human moments, love and friendship, and the things that drive us to succeed.
I was surprised at how sweet it could be at times.It's also got plenty of computer talk: programming, Microsoft vs Apple, the Cult of Bill.
The sometimes short, choppy entries reminded me a lot of  Kurt Vonnegut's writing style; Coupland's narrator even has the same habit of ending sections with a single exclamation.Microsoft!Five stars for making me feel like I was back in 1993, and for not turning this group of geeks into a joke.
What if I used technology to write down my thoughts and totally zany random observations while I was reading the book?
Human Beings: What’s the difference?-Annoying Formatting that tries to be “clever”-THE FUTURE-Play Doh and Legos-The word “post-modern”-Mind Body DualismDouglas Coupland probably did some research but it’s clear he’s not much of a nerd.
He says that Interval [a technology firm] reminds him of an intellectual Watership Down.” I read that book cover-to-cover and I still have no idea what this reference means.
I told him I guess sometimes you get good stuff but most of the time it's a bunch of references and gibberish about machines, bodies, getting a life, and postmodernism.
The book is an odd mixture of straightforward events, weird vignettes, and stream of consciousness observation of the totems and symbols of this weird, weird world, and somehow it works.I can't tell you if this is really a good book, though, because I spent time at Microsoft in the early 1990's and I was a 20-something then and I moved to Silicon Valley in the late 1990's and this book just got it -- it understood what it meant to be in this weird culture and this weird place and this weird age where anything could happen if you just worked hard enough and you let your health go to hell and you got to be in on one-point-oh (1.0).
No. But Microserfs contains some compassionate passages, especially when the nerds speak honestly, Breakfast Club style, both through email (which was probably still novel then) and face to face, or when Dan’s mother uses technology (don’t want to spoil it) to communicate from a far away place.I don’t love Coupland but I count on him for breezy, thoughtful novels when I’m in the mood for something between light and heavy.
When I was in high school, I read Generation X and Life After God and was thrilled by these tales of wry, vibrant, lost characters who fought for real meaning when their culture caused them to shrug at tragedy and love and weep over reruns and advertising campaigns (I was a pretty lonely teenager, obviously.) When Microserfs came out, I remember picking it up at the bookstore a few times (maybe this was '95 or '96?) and thinking, "Oh, it's this story about the 'information-superhighway' with all these "inventive" gimmicks (like two pages of binary code) and characters who live for email and chat rooms and Who Gives a Fuck?" At the time, my family didn't have a computer, I didn't have an email account, and it seemed like Coupland had fallen face-first into an orgy of trend-humping.
For Microserfs, I am straddling these two reader-type extremes: those who know nothing about geektech culture, and those who 100% techie, geeky nerds.
I feel this is the right place to be, because the book evoked lots of "Yeah...it really IS that way, isn't it?" and "Oh those geeks!" Yet I'm not so into the culture that I feel it was misrepresented.
I can't ever seem to attempt to write an approximation of some sort of "objective" review (lulz) so I'll just leave you with my idiosyncratic impressions: 1) I felt computer programmers in Silicon Valley in the 90's were really like how they were portrayed in the novel, and that made me happy and a little bit jealous that I was born in 1988, because the culture was presented so well.
Even though he's not relevant anymore and hasn't been for a long time, Im done for good with Coupland: second book read, second one I really disliked. This book has been sitting in my bookshelf for too long, and since it has always been sort of a cult-book about the tech-industry, and since I needed some light reading not too deep, I decided to give it a try. Douglas Coupland is a talented writer, he knows how to write a book, no doubt about it; why he decided to use his talents to write these l
As with Generation X, this book is really much about nothing; in Generation X it was all about a bunch of shallow anecdotic stories of a group of clichéd twentysomethings living together in the early nineties, which is supposed to be a somewhat satirical portrait of the GenX youth of the times.
In Microserfs it is all about a bunch of shallow anecdotic stories of a group of clichéd "code monkey" twentysomethings living together in the mid nineties, which is supposed to be a somewhat satirical portrait of the high-tech culture in the pre-bubble days.The story is very outdated, and the characters and humour sometimes are somewhat geeky, but those are not the sins of the book.
The narrator is the quintessential flaneur in that he seems to be the kind of person who everybody confess themselves to, and as such becomes the eyes and ears of the reader as the author does a far-ranging show and tell of life in the 1990’s, tech and corporate culture, Seattle, San Fransisco and the Silicon Valley, Las Vegas, technology, relationships, mass media, gender, etc.
God knows why - it's not like Coupland is attempting to write a great tragedy.
The book does a great job capturing the Silicon Valley nerd culture in the 90s, how it seemed to exist suspended in its own bubble world.
I like the way Coupland writes.
Addendum: I was going to leave it at that, after trying and failing to describe exactly the effect the book had on me, then I went and read some other reviews of it, and David's hit it right on for me: "I think Coupland's work...
I was just sucked right into it. The characters just talk and suddenly you are inside the story and you can't get out and you just watch them have lives. I love every single one of them.Insightful. This book is nerds and geeks thinking, talking about many things, out loud, and I am a nerd and a geek myself, and I don't have friends (except one) who listens to me when I am in my "Philosophical Mode" and I just crave having friends like Dan's, all of whom will tolerate - no,  join  - me in talking
The characters just talk and suddenly you are inside the story and you can't get out and you just watch them have lives.
This book is nerds and geeks thinking, talking about many things, out loud, and I am a nerd and a geek myself, and I don't have friends (except one) who listens to me when I am in my "Philosophical Mode" and I just crave having friends like Dan's, all of whom will tolerate - no, 
Such fun... I especially loved the idea of someone locking himself in his office and only eating flat foods that can be inserted under the door. I think of this book every time I open a slice of American cheese!
What makes this different from, say, a film like Reality Bites (1994) is the ever-present questioning among these young code-writers of the changing relationship between humanity and technology.
This is a very optimistic book, which also seems--looking back on it--to fit with the time.
It isn't as if there weren't plenty of scary things still in existence during the period of 1993-2001, but in general there was a different feel to life than there is today.
But I'm not in my twenties anymore either--things would probably look different to me now if I was 25.
The Ethan character reminded me so much of someone I used to work with that I wondered if it really was based on him.Coupland is good at bringing humor to a lot of strange situations that arise in the tech world, but what surprised me about this book was that it wasn't just a complete comedy.
It's a humorous book about the tech culture, but what I think it ultimately is is a coming-of-age story of a group of geeky friends.
this book was disappointing.
there's a scene that i can't resist pointing out where somehow someone sends the main characters all an email about how every multiple of six minus one is a prime number and they all had to waste work time proving or disproving it.
it is dumb.
it takes about 2 seconds to disprove because it never should have been mentioned in the first place.
fucker.it might have been an OKAY book if it were a true story about a bunch of people i REALLY like but as a fictional account, um, yeah.
dumb.enough invective for now.
Love it.
It was dull.
It was dull beyond anything I can put into words.
I can see somewhere in the mess of randomness that makes up the protagonists journal entries where you'd find seeds of the supposed generation x cultural manifesto this thing is touted as.
As a Canadian I've read all the reviews of his work that say he has his finger almost always on the pulse of our nations cultural heartbeat.
It seems everyone is grasping onto the Captain Crunch scene as the one really well written half paragraph in the whole damn book.
One half paragraph does not a classic make.
Microserfs is one of Coupland's most populair books with a certain cult-status.The thing which I not really liked, was that that this book contains too much software-terms.
Typical "Coupland's" were as well the dialogue's and the way the characters go on with each other....When I read it a few years ago, I can remember it was just too sweet for me.Maybe it was not the right moment to read, right then.
I can remember I liked Generation X and Shampoo Planet a lot more.
This book is funny, and especially for the one's who are more familiar with software and the computer-business, it's a big surplus.
I just dropped the book on the table and I'm thinking of rereading many of its parts.
It's amazing how much one can learn from a work of fiction so cleverly crafted and so loyal to the culture it intends to explore.
What Coupland achieved is a truly fascinating take on why the Valley ignites so much obsession, even decades before HBO's Silicon Valley came along.The way Dan and his friends are portrayed is worryingly relatable to many of us who in any level deal with technology and its culture.
The whole 'having a life' trope ends being exquisite.
And in the end, I cried.
One of the best books I read in 2016- so many amazing one liners and multi dimensional characters. A glimpse into the beginning of the tech world that is now a part of all our lives but once was for nerds only.
I was left with the feeling that nothing actually happened until the last ten pages of this book, and I never connected with any of these characters.
Meditating on this habit, Daniel envisions a world where we are all connected all the time, with no need to check messages or remember things because it will be all available to us automatically.
At the beginning, Daniel gives us the run down on his housemates and I worried that that would be the end of each of these characters' development as I struggled to remember all of their names, but by the end of the first part, they are all distinct and memorable people.And then it had a sobby ending which came out of that ol' left field.
This is a very chill read up until the last quarter, but that last quarter makes this book, without it it's meh. I really enjoyed witnessing the build up from friendship to family between the characters, and that really shines in the finale which is why, I guess, I can't stop talking about it. The characters are solid, and I really like the way Daniel, the narrator (view spoiler)[(it's his diary) (hide spoiler)] manages to casually capture descriptive details about everything that's going on.The afternoon I spent with this book was a very pleasant one.
Well-drawn/engaging ensemble cast of characters, amiably getting on with their lives - working (coding!) chatting, forming relationships and occasionally even having/relating personal feelings (shock, horror!).
Style reads almost like a coffee-table book - you could open the book on any page and get the idea pretty quickly.
What I liked most was (view spoiler)[the almost complete lack of any trouble/trauma/problems - none of the relationships ended badly, there was no arguing over money or office-politics, everybody was just cool, happy, well-adjusted, funny (mostly unintentionally!) and any minor issues just got talked-out/resolved in good humour (hide spoiler)] - this is almost unheard of in novels and I found it highly refreshing/thought-provoking.
It's like Big Bang Theory. Except it's funny. And insightful. And well written.So, nothing like Big Bang Theory.
Aunque precisamente esta capacidad de concentración la que hace que sean tan buenos programando: una solo línea cada vez, una línea tras otra en una sucesión de millones de líneas.Qué puedo decir de Microsiervos, además que es un libro gordo muy entretenido porque habla de nerds y geeks, peores que yo, que es una obra ubicada en Seattle y California de 1993 a 1994 y que cuenta por medio de una diario (lo que hoy se conoce como un blog) los pormenores de una pandilla de raros y solos y autistas que programan y programan y programan por disciplina y porque no saben hacer otra cosa productiva en la vida.Vivo mi vida día a día, una línea tras otra de programa sin erroresClaro, son 20 años de diferencia, de tiempo transcurrido, y no importa, porque lo que describe Douglas Coupland se puede ver en el Valle de Aburrá, por ejemplo, donde que todos mis amigos o conocidos, están apostándole al código como poesía y como trabajo, y nos arriesgamos a crear empresas de videos, multimedias, y servicios web.En los Ángeles, todo el mundo está escribiendo un guión.
The thought that I had as I came to the conclusion of this novel is that if this book were transported back in time 100 years readers from that time would barely recognize it as written in English.
I mean we read novels written 100, even 200 and 300 years ago with ease and pleasure (Dickens, Jane Austen etc.) They are stories we can still recognize.
The language starts getting dicey for us about 500 years ago, Shakespeare's time.
So will Microserfs, a book that describes a group of coders working for the GM of the digital age, be read 100 years from now?
This novel, written and set in the mid-1990s, is about a group of Microsoft employees who quit, move to Silicon Valley, and start a company of their own.
I first read (and loved) it in 1997, shortly after moving to Silicon Valley myself, so rereading it was strongly nostalgic of both the era and my younger self.
In general, it's not a plot-heavy book -- that synopsis I gave in the first sentence is pretty much the story -- but I was happy just spending time with the characters.
