https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/539968.Thirty_Seconds_Over_Tokyo
I had always heard of it and finally decided to read it.
The mission was a success and Captain Lawson's plane bombed its assigned targets in just 30 seconds.
Luckily Lawson and his men were rescued by the Chinese.
Lawson had married right before he began training for this top secret mission and worried that his wife would be disgusted by his disfigurement from the crash.
I found this book to be very interesting.
It was interesting to read this book describing this campaign which was a direct retaliation for the bombing of Pearl Harbor
I am rating this as a 10 year old. Can't remember much about the book now, but I remember of liking it and reading it several times as a child..
I wonder why the word 'swell' fell out of favor as an adjective?The book starts with these two sentences: " I helped bomb Tokyo on the Dolittle Raid of April 18, 1942.
The book is the story of the Dolittle raid from one pilot's perspective, and more.
I plan on reading more about the raid.And after the crash, I learned about the terror and emotional agony of losing a limb, almost dying and slowly realizing the leg is gone forever.I learned about the 'kindness of strangers' and how the local Chinese saved and cared for these men.
The book is about the time Ted Lawson has up to a raid this raid was somewhat revenge for pearl harbor.
The Doolittle raid was were B-25 liberators took off from an aircraft carrier and bombed cities in japan.
This book is about how Ted live and where he went before the raid.
It tells about the time the the USS.Hornet the carrier of the B-25.
After the plane he piloted crashed it tells of the brave Chinese citizens who risked their lives by aiding them in escaping the Japanese army.
I read this book in the second grade, many years ago, and it lit a candle on my reading of WWII history— and, indeed, my reading of history and historical biographies in general— that has yet to burn itself out.
A simply and powerfully told story of the Doolittle raid over Japan in WWII. The account neatly captures without strain the ethos and manner of speech of that time.
It still captivates me to think a book written 74 years ago can still brilliantly inform a reader of the Doolittle Raid in his own personal view.
He then goes through the story of meeting his wife and training with his crew for the secret Doolittle Raid.
To were inevitably Lawson bomber crash lands and his crew of 7 all being injured.
He then finishes the book by describing the rest of his life after returning to his wife and newborn child with a missing leg and not being able to tell them of exactly what happened during the raid.
Doolittle RaidersThis is the story of the WW2 "Doolittle Raid" on Japan, from the point of view of Ted Lawson, one of the bomber pilots. I thought it was an interesting subject. It was written and published during the war, so there's quite a bit of hiding of secrets and disguising identities, especially among the Chinese. The language used may sound a bit old fashioned and "rah-rah" to the modern reader, but what would you expect from a book written over during a war over 70 years ago.
I thought that this book was extremely captivating in how it talks about the first-person point of view of a pilot in WWII. Although the story progresses quickly, the author does a good job in transitioning throughout the years that the story occurred. I would recommend this to anyone who wants an extremely detailed look into the life of someone who flew during one of the more important and notable events of the war.
3.5 stars!
This was one of the first adventure books I picked for myself off the bookshelves of my grade school library 50+ years ago. It gave me my love of war novels and of history.
Very interesting, full of suspense and action.
Classic StoryClassic story of the epic raid right from the horses mouth. I love old books that still include some misspellings or incorrect words, they are from an era before Word
Exciting first hand account of the Doolittle Raid over Japan during World War II
A very good book and inspiring read. Would recommend for any one interested in WW2 history.
great book
So, the daring raid on the Japanese mainland less than 6 months later came as a complete surprise - to both Japan and America.
Spread out along the coast, only a few were captured by the Japanese but most managed, with a great deal of hardship and the self-sacrificing help of the oppressed Chinese, to escape and return to America.Written by Capt.
Lawson, I found it much better written than I had expected and it caused me to cringe numerous times as I read what the crew went through in their ordeal.
Jimmy Doolittle put together a group of volunteer B-25 crews that would take 16 planes off the deck of the USS Hornet (an airstrip VERY much shorter than the plane would normally use), fly for over 6 hours at wave top levels, pop up and bomb their military targets in various Japanese cities and try to make it to the allied fields in mainland China.This is the specifically the story of Ted Lawson, who was the pilot of plane #7; the Ruptured Duck.
I must have read it more than half a dozen times as a teenager, and I'm glad to have picked up a new copy when I visited Pearl Harbor several years ago.
This was a remarkable first person account of the Doolittle raids over Japan after Pearl Harbor told by Capt.
Ted W.
Lawson.
However, the real story begins after the bombs were dropped as the crews try to coast on fumes toward their landing strips in China.
Most crews end up having to bail out or crash land.
Lawson and the majority of his crew suffered major injuries when they crashed in the ocean but managed to survive weeks without proper medical attention while continually on the run.Lawson tells his amazing tale in a straight forward, no-frill, chronological manner.
Overall it is a thrilling story, not only to US patriots, but also to a Chinese who is living in US.
Doolittle Raid may not as decisive as Battle of Midway.
Thus, to my point of view, this raid should be as an important turning point as the battle around Midway, from where, in Japanese thoughts, the bombers in Doolittle raid took off.
The brave pilots and so who took part in this raid voluntarily, as well as the Chinese who gave their kind help and, most of them, were tortured or even executed afterward, should be memorized eternally.

Great book.
Great Movie.
Find out about The Ruptured Duck!
There are North American B-25 Mitchell medium bombers everywhere.
Big radial sounds vying for accord in a crescendo and a malarky: am I hearing this?
the warbling of a chorus of engines....Wright radial R-2600's at 1,600hp each!
i've seen droves of them in the 70's over my house in N.
E. Los Angeles back then.
and then there were the 1978 and 1979 Chino Airshows with the din of the radial engines with as much as (4) B-25 in the air at one time in formation.
I'm reminded today, on the 70th anniversary of the Doolittle Raid, that I read this book a long time ago, seems like I was around junior-high age.
(It may even have been an abridged edition, not sure.) Anyway, it's a great first-hand account of the raid and the subsequent experiences of Lawson and his crew, which were fairly typical of the other members of the expedition.
Immediately following the strike, Lawson and his crew were forced to ditch off Nantien.
Lawson's leg was severely wounded in the crash, and was later amputed while he was being clandestinely shuffled through various Chinese provinces on the long road back home.
This book was a favorite of my father's and I suspect, of his generation.
It's written in a form of English that has pretty well disappeared, but that characterizes the era.
The author, one of Doolittle's pilots, a man who lost a leg in brutal conditions after crash landing in China, asks whether it was all worth it, and he says yes, it was.
The contrast between Lawson's patriotism and so much of what passes for the same today is remarkable, and I found the book wholly worthwhile because of what it told me about the men who fought WW II.
This book was written in 1943 by a survivor of the Doolittle raid.
Name of the Chinese who harbored the Doolittle raiders were changes, along with the names of the villages where the raiders were hidden from the Japanese.
The Japanese still the held land surrounding the villages when the book was published.
It is interesting that the raiders initially viewed the raid as a failure because they ran out fuel and crash landed in the sea or in China before reaching the Chinese bases where they were to land.
Doolittle expected to be court martialed if he maid it back to the US.
Jimmy Doolittle’s raid over Tokyo occurred just four months after Pearl Harbor, in direct retaliation for the Japanese attack. This account was written by one of the pilots, Ted Lawson, who lost a leg in the incident. He published the book a year later, in 1943. It’s fresh and raw, because it had just barely happened. (He wasn’t looking back over the years.) And it’s not politically correct–our enemies were the “Japs”. It’s pure, non-stop action, and it takes you there–something you’ll never get from a 21st century “memoir.”
Read this book a very long time ago, so probably don't really have any clear memory of how it was actually written. But it still gets a 5-star rating because it is most definitely one of the first books to spark my interest history in general and WWII history in particular. This is one that I will be putting on my "to re-read"list. And really I am quite surprised to find that I do not own a copy of it. I'll have to fix that.
An autobiographical account of the American air raid on Tokyo lead by Jimmy Doolittle. Lawson briefly describes his training as a U.S Army Air Corps bomber pilot, the specialized training for the Doolittle raid, the actual raid, and the efforts to get back to the U.S. after crash landing on the coast of China. A very vivid reminder of how very dangerous military flying was in those days. (Today it's just dangerous.)
Writing in 1943, the author was a pilot of one of the 16 B-25 bombers that took off from the carrier Hornet and bombed Japan on April 18, 1942, just four months after Pearl Harbor. The book tells the story of him and his crew from training for this secret mission through the attack itself, the crash landing that eventually cost him a leg, and the rescue by brave Chinese. The book is well-written.
I remember the Christmas I was 13 years old. Being a lover of books my parents found a very old copy of this book in an antique shop and presented it to me that year. I read it in one sitting. I could not put it down. Ted Lawson's story is a touching one that is well written and provides an insight to World War II in the early years. I ended up getting a Bachelors Degree in History in 2013 and honestly I owe that to this book.
