https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45338.Rendezvous_in_Black
Johnny snaps and goes on a psychopathic killing spree, tracking down the passengers of the plane and killing the most important woman in each man's world.
Can Inspector Cameron stop Johnny before it's too late?Rendezvous in Black has a lot in common with my favorite Woolrich book, The Bride Wore Black.
Johnny systematically hunts down each man, figures out who the most important woman in his life is, and kills them in a variety of ways.
Let's just saw she didn't go the Black Angel route when she found out he was cheating...To sum it up, I liked Rendezvous in Black but I liked it better the first time Woolrich wrote it when it was called The Bride Wore Black.
I devoured this wicked tale with a zeal approaching that of the book's protagonist--I mean, the book's villain--I mean, damn, which is it?I love that the main character disappears from the story after the beginning, appearing instead as a mysterious agent bent on undoing the lives of a select group of men.
With each story of revenge--gotta love how Woolrich broke these up into separate "rendezvouses"--the criminal methods that our law-breaking hero employs to get his mark become more diabolical, more sinister, and, for us cozy readers, more amazing.Make no doubt about it, this is revenge-mania wrought with a crafty hand.
Woolrich is one sick writer...
or maybe not.
But for sure this is truly one of most twisted novels ever.
A young man (Johnny Marr!) is waiting for his wife, and what happens?
Someone in a plane above throws over a liquour bottle and it hits and kills the poor girl.
The moment it happens, Johnny Marr smashes his watch to keep that time forever.
That image is so beautiful and goth like.
So basically he gets a list of those who are on that flight and goes after the girlfriend, wife, or kid.
And Cornell Woolrich is really great.
Woolrich uses this seemingly insignificant incident to weave a tale of deadly consequences.
While Woolrich is writing his little roman noir, he is really talking about the indifference of the cosmos to your or my fate.
Since it’s Woolrich we’ll get to see some psychopathology, paranoia, revenge, horror, suspense, and thrills along the way.
Oh, but don’t spend too much time on the unlikelihood of some of the plot devices, that’s all part of the fun.
You won’t want to put it down anyway.There is so much more going on here than the surface of the story, but that’s what good noir is about.
Each rendezvous is not unlike a short story (which Woolrich was quite prolific in writing), in part because the perspective only fleetingly becomes that of the killer.
Woolrich creates no blood lust within the reader (if anything, it’s an anti-revenge novel), but subjectively explores the emotions that overcome each victim, be it the uncompromising desire of a girl in love, the guilt that a married man carrying on an affair comes to grips with, or the intense fear of a blind woman who essentially sees and understands her fate.
Nhưng đến cuối cùng, như thể coi việc dạo chơi của bản thân đã đến hồi kết thúc, hắn lại trở thành vô danh và âm thầm - trong bóng tối - thực hiện tội ác.Tác giả có cách kể và dẫn dắt đầy lôi cuốn.
Hắn ẩn mình sau bóng tối, chỉ đây đó lộ ra một cử chỉ hay một nụ cười, đủ để người đọc biết hắn đang tồn tại ở đó, trả thù những kẻ đã cướp lẽ sống duy nhất của đời hắn.Tôi thích cách tác giả chơi đùa với ngôn từ, rất nhẹ nhàng, uyển chuyển nhưng không làm giảm đi độ lôi cuốn của một câu chuyện trinh thám.
The saddest revenge story ever written? Johnny Marr, an almost anonymous young man in middle America (think Our Town), must find the man who killed his fiancée and make the killer suffer as he has suffered. But there are five possible killers, so they must all suffer. The plots that Johnny executes against them require near-omniscience on his part. Never mind that Johnny could have identified the actual killer much more easily--for better or for worse, Woolrich demands that you grant him absurdities.First reading: circa 2004Second reading: 13 April 2009
This story was very, very dark, and modern feeling (though it's clearly from the 1940s). Disturbingly dark.
The structure of Rendezvous in Black was intriguing in that the character first presented to the reader as the protagonist, disappears into the ether after the introductory chapters, only to emerge later as the homicidal specter that haunts a series of interconnected short stories.
Each story, or rendezvous, details a new cycle of revenge, and with each one I found my sympathies bouncing back and forth between the heartbroken and highly delusional killer, Johnny Marr (no relation to the Smiths guitarist!), and his innocent victims.
Realistically, Marr is too all knowing and pulls off his complicated schemes too perfectly to be believable, but it does give him an almost supernatural quality.
In fact, just about everything of how he pulled off any of his plot is up to you to figure out since he demonstrates no particular skills at the start but somehow transforms into a suave sophisticated Romeo as the story progresses.
It's also a story where midway through you say to yourself "enough already, just end it," but it continues to go on and on.
This guy sets out on his path of vengeance from the start; he never gives the law an opportunity to handle things.
Oh and did I mention the thing goes on forever?
BOOK 70: Mid-20th Century North American Crime Readathon - Round 2This is the last of the author's "Black" series and I hope to go back at some point and read them all.HOOK=3 stars: "They had a date every night" is the opening line.
The plot feels a bit uneven at times but may be intentional as 'reason 1'- Johnny is a mess.
(but 'reason 2', so is the author, an alcoholic enduring "self-contempt" according to Francis Nevins in an introduction to this novel.) The plot builds to a very good climax.
Films based on Woolrich stories include 'Rear Window', 'Phantom Lady', 'The Window', 'The Night Has a Thousand Eyes', 'The Bride Wore Black' - and on and on and on.
Even when the bulk of the story is over, Woolrich still has one more effective thrill in the denouement.
All that I thought was that I tried to tell the truth." In 'RIB', Woolrich tells quite a bit of truth about the human condition.
(This was one of Woolrich's personal favorites among his books.) His language can be playful ("He hated soldiers with woebegone faces.
In fact he hated soldiers with faces.
In fact he hated soldiers.
(Warning - a mild spoiler included)I for the life of me couldn't figure out why Johnny Marr was going after guys in a chartered plane. It wasn't until a quarter of the way in that I made my correct assumption. Afterwards I was able to relax and enjoy the murders more. Not a bad piece of pulp fiction - my first Woolrich story.
I liked this novel a lot more than the first Woolrich novel I read four years ago; “I Married a Dead Man.” I’m glad I gave his work another try, this one kept me hooked the whole time.I think Woolrich’s writing is something you need to be in the mood for.
It’s kinda pulpy, but it’s more of a slow burn, dark, depressive noir feel.
This book was more fast-paced than “I Married a Dead Man” but it still has that gloomy pall over it.This book has such a wild concept at base, a young man takes revenge on some men who drop a liquor bottle out of a charter flight onto his girlfriend’s head?
This is the first book I've read by Cornell Woolrich, it came out in 1948.
At first his tone struck me as almost modest but what unfolds are revealing insights and the inescapable presense of passion, hate, death, longing, and avenging desperate violence, and pretty soon my impression of his writing tone was altered.
He's no wimp afraid of writing a brutal scene and enchanting plot.
It rollercoasts with great power and has a great deal of engaging humor especially when dealing with loosers, cops and criminals and snappy noir type descriptions a'la Chandler.
Of course I'm going to read more of Woolrich's work!
this is one of those books that defy the star-rating system, offering a reading experience composed of equal parts fascination and repulsion.
and because sometimes it's relevatory to have the sheen of the world stripped away.rendezvous in black basically replicates the plot of woolrich's earlier the bride wore black, but with one key difference: here, it's the man who seeks revenge against the people he thinks are responsible for the death of his sweetheart - not by killing them, but by killing or otherwise going after the women they love, and thus (he thinks) inflicting the same nightmare onto the men.
because if the plot replication is deliberate, that means woolrich was really pushing the envelope in thinking about the gendered dynamics of crime through different kinds of victimizer/victim doublings.
The story centers on Johnny Marr (presumably no relation to The Smiths' guitarist), a young man whose bride-to-be is killed in a bizarre accident.
Marr vows revenge on the five men he holds responsible for his lover's death.
Marr's murders get increasingly twisted and disturbing as the story progesses.
Meanwhile, a homicide investigator named Cameron pursues Marr, always a few footsteps behind.Woolrich had a visual prose style, albeit somewhat melodramatic.
The nineteen fourties had arrived at a state of delirium tremens, which could be turned on and off, however, without the intervention of straitjackets and attendants."— Cornell Woolrich, "Rendevous in Black"
It gets a 4 for Cornell Woolrich and the ending. A few issues: 1) death by tetanus? Ok... 2) for as “clever” as the detective is at moments in the book, he’s an idiot when it comes to surveillance. Both with the daughter of one character and the blind woman. For that matter, there are as many unlikely scenarios as there are likely ones. Beyond that, Woolrich’s prose is some of the best stuff. His suspense and illustrations of “love” are amazing. Highly recommended with a smidge of suspension of disbelief.
Really enjoyed this. Yes, there are plot holes you can drive a truck through, and yes, sometimes Woolrich runs off at the mouth--er, pen--to the detriment of the action. But I kinda didn't care; something about his writing generates a mood and tension that never let up. If you're a fan of Raymond Chandler and Dashiell Hammett, by all means check this out.
One of the best ever revenge story lines and macro plots, even if it falls apart on close reading at the micro plot level. Woolrich gets redundant and purply with his prose at times and that can take away from the story if you let it - so just barrel on through and enjoy the twisted fate of Johnny Marr.
Maybe a 3.5. The thing holding me back is the sexism, though I know this was written in the 1940s. Where a male over 18 is a "man," but females don't grow up until they're old--the eternal"girl." As a thriller, Woolrich does the formula right--constantly keeping the reader guessing. The blind stalking scene may have inspired the movie"Wait until Dark."
There’s very little I like about this. The plot is ridiculous and convoluted. The characters are thin, the descriptive writing lacking. And Woolrich mangles the English language:“A streak of flame spit from Cameron’s hand, a shot raged out thunderously, and the decrepit lock splashed into particles.”In short, I don’t hold Woolrich in high esteem on the basis of Rendezvous in Black.
I can't even put into words how much I loved this book. I am now a huge Woolrich fan... such a great writer.
I enjoy Cornell Woolrich's work. This was the best one I've read yet. Full of suspense and a twisting plot. It's quite dark and very satisfying.
This is the second Woolrich book I read and I became an even bigger fan. The suspense is almost unbearable.
Started good, and then it bored me to tears.
This is copy 40 of 300 signed and numbered copies, Signed by:William F. Nolan (Introduction)Matt Mahurin (Cover Artist)Jacob McMurray (Jacket Design)
Una risa buena, llena de promesas, una risa cojonuda, si se piensa bien.”Es un detective heredero del estilo de los grandes Marlowe o Spade, con unas pizcas de Hammer; tiene un estilo tan particular que puede llegar a subyugar sin muchas dificultades.En esta que fue la primera novela, Parker planteó como pretexto el robo de un manuscrito que, sin embargo, le sirve como tapadera para una trama policíaca de toda la vida donde los mafiosos, los bajos fondos y las drogas están más que presentes.“Al romper la puerta, había hecho un ruido infernal, y el disparo previo debió de sonar muy fuerte.
He begins – I say he randomly because the voice and tone of the narrator can often be described as female – with a six page description of the love of Johnny Marr for his Dorothy while he waits at their nightly meeting spot.
They are so cruel, they are so kind; they are so calloused, they are so tender.” Or when Bill Morrisey who confronts the killer shouts “If you say you’re not, you’re a liar” Woolrich’s narrator adds in an aside “The adjective he used to modify the noun was unprintable.” The narrator observes the girl set up as bait to catch the killer waiting at Johnny Marr’s old rendezvous spot.
Pleased to get to know another great crime novelist, who, though beyond my time, deserves good attention and appreciation from readers of this particular category of "noir" literary. Impressive prose style and well structured storyline and plot! Will definitely continue with his other novels. This is the kind of writer who could proudly stand side by side with the likes of Raymond Chandler, with no less shine at all!
