https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/389688.The_Hawk_and_the_Jewel
Bored bored bored." 3)"You know, it's really telling when your main thought while reading a book is, 'The BIBLE is less preachy than this.'"For the long version, read here:This is the second Lori Wick book I read on the recommendation of someone else, and clearly I need to stop.
First, this is not set in the Victorian era, this is set in the Disney Princess version of the Victorian Era. Second, it's SOOOOO PREACHY.
I LOVED LOVED LOVED this book! I have read millions of books (not really...but a bunch!) and I'd have to say that this was probably the most romantic, touching, and amazing book I have ever read! Her characters grip your attention, pull you into their world, and find a place in your heart.
A great historical romance.
Wick is a mediocre writer, and I was irritated at how perfect all of her characters were (besides the main character).
There were times when I rolled my eyes at the language and actions of the characters.
I didn't quit the book though, because I had to know the ending.One of my gripes w the perfection of her characters is that they are Christians.
Sunny, the main character, is not a Christian and makes a lot of mistakes.
I think this could send a false message that accepting Christ somehow makes the Christian suddenly perfect.
Go figure.I probably won't read another book by this author.
The thing I really loved about this story is that Sunny was flawed...
Wick has a tendency of creating flat, idealized, and one-sided characters, but such is not the case with Brandon and Sunny.
The only thing I did not like was the fact that she did little or no research on the Victorian era.
It is described as being almost like a fantasy, with women being swept off their feet by their lovers.
It is a beautiful love story, but it is clear Wick is amateur, thus why I only rated this 4 out of 5 stars.
I adore this book.
As with all my opinions on Lori Wick books, my only two issues with her writing are as follows: 1.
In my opinion, way too much of her books are chewed up by one main character leading another main character to Christ, and I just think that's a little preachy.
Her odd language :p like really, how many times can one character say, "Oh Brandon!" before it gets old?
:pBut I'd still name this as one of my top five favorite books of all time.
The story line is flawless, the characters are fantastic and the romance is adorable :)
If you think it is fine, then you will probably enjoy this book:[Miles and Jordan] had been the best of friends since the time they were young, mainly because of the close proximity of their homes.
With conflicting schedules and serious studies, there was not much time for seeing each other or courting, but both boys were very interested in finding wives ..."My Issues with this Book:Many details don't ring true about the setting--the decidedly un-Victorian era names like Andrea, Brandon, Heather, the decidedly modern manner in which they speak, the sixteen year old boys thinking about settling down with wives, etc.
I read Lori Wick's English Garden series several years ago from our public library's Bookmobile service.
I had students in my high school library request more books like Julie Klassen's and happened to remember Wick's series.
Enjoyable, but predictable." Then, Wick threw a surprise twist into the plot involving some of the romances.
Okay...changed my direction of thinking and read some more.Then, she throws another twist so it goes back to my original prediction.
I loved the title and the cover, but it added to the predictability of the book.That being said, I still enjoyed this clean, wholesome, Christian book and plan on reading more by Lori Wick.
Shani was from England, but as far as she knew her parents had both died from drowning, and she had been taken in as the emir’s daughter.
The emir felt it time to let his daughter go and learn the ways of her true people, so he arranged her to tour an Englishman’s ship.
When Shani awoke on the ship she felt a jolt and realized she was no longer on land.
Shani soon finds out her real name is actually Sunny.
They reach England after months journeying, and Sunny begins her many adventures of living in a new country.
An old favorite, a silly little historical romance that I love to reread and remember.
I really love the story to this one!! AMAZING!!
Just read this for the fifth or sixth time and will be reading it again:) One of my all time favorites.
Good love story -- easy read -- enjoyed.
I really liked it!
This started out interesting and then became boring.
I was hoping for cultural conflicts and got very little, and the moment Sunny became Christian all her inner conflicts and doubt just disappeared.
And someone falling in love with a young girl they have known since she was 13 does strike me as a little creepy, especially since romance novel convention signalled that it would happen from the moment they met in the novel.
I would have been much happier with the other romances that were hinted at, also because that would have been a truly interesting and bold change to the standard romance novel formula.
First Christian romance to this atheist: lovely cover and interesting description captivated me. Was it worth it? Well, yes. Writing is dazzlingly clean and I dont mean lack of sexuality (which can be handled without dirt), I mean literal cleanlines, and albeit Lori Wick is clearly a writer with limited writing skills she does nice job in this story, with good setting and some beautiful imagery rivalling gorgeous title. Just what kind of 19th century name is Sunny? Anyway, it is nice, light read
First Christian romance to this atheist: lovely cover and interesting description captivated me. Was it worth it? Well, yes. Writing is dazzlingly clean and I don´t mean lack of sexuality (which can be handled without dirt), I mean literal cleanlines, and albeit Lori Wick is clearly a writer with limited writing skills she does nice job in this story, with good setting and some beautiful imagery rivalling gorgeous title. Just what kind of 19th century name is Sunny? Anyway, it is nice, light reading.
I read another book in this series when I was a teenager and really liked it, so I had high hopes that I would like this book too.I really, really disliked this. The writing feels wooden and there is so much telling rather than showing. I disliked the controlling, over-protective relationship between the two main characters, and felt that all characters were flat and boring. There were little to no details to evoke the time and place. It amazes me that so many people have given it five stars.
One of my favorite Lori wick books. This was the 2nd time but last time was before I had kids wow what a perspective came...lol earlier thought Brandon and Rand were big bullies but as a parent I really like them. The main character grows up as the book travels over many years but her adventurous spirit makes the novel a fun read. While it is a love, coming of age story, it also is about how hard it is to move and resettle in an unknown place like she has to do.
well...you definitely know its a Christian book. Whole sections of quotes and verses and if in doubt just drop to your knees and pray. I was disturbed by the pedophilic tendencies. ...13 year old girl who is loved at first sight by an adult. Underlyong grooming...can't live without you. On the surface all above board but it kinda got stuck in my gullet somehow. I would leave this alone. not the best for several reasons.
I could not finish this book. I read it halfway and got really tired of the trite and tireless story. It also bothered me that the story centers around a 13/14 year old girl and a 24 year old man. Does no one else find that a little strange? I have read other books by this author and liked them, but this one was very disappointing. I will not read the others in this series. I may try another series by this author, but if it is anything like this book, I'll give up on her.
Really sub-par writing. But of greater concern was its view of Christianity. The Christian members of the family talk a good game, but their lives are totally self-absorbed. They're so worried about the spiritual state of their little sister, but she's the only one actually doing anything for others. Once she becomes a believer, she also seems to abandon her good works and join the others in living only for self. Disappointing.
This the first book I have read by this author. For the first 2/3 of the book I enjoyed it. A little preachy but I was invested. Then it just got a little too much for me. I became a little irritated with the characters and the story. On the whole it was a good story but It fell a bit flat. I enjoy Christian fiction for the most part but I like it better when they are less "preachy"
Anything Lori Wick writes is pure gold. I love Sunny and Brandon's adventure.
I love this series!!, this one is one of my favorites in it. I own these.
Unrealistic and contrived.
About what I expected from this book - some romance, some mystery and a large helping of Christian morals and Biblical referrences. Not a bad book, but, not the best I have read, in this genre, either. Could have used a bit more research into Muslim countries and traditions, to make those scenes a bit more believable, and, once the heroine was in Jolly Olde England again, after 13 yrs away, she assimilated a bit more quickly and smoothly than is probable...
I did enjoy this story though I found it to be slow at times and preachy. The characters were fun and the youth had several tries before they got the suitor thing figured out which seems more realistic to me than getting it right the first time.
I don't think this was incredibly (or much at all) historically accurate. Perhaps to play up the romance side. Still a sweet story.
A decent read overall. Instead of the “Show not tell” writing philosophy, it tells you everything from the characters to the circumstances. Easy and clean.
This is my go-to feel good, easy, romantic read. I read this series every couple of years because of nostalgia. Not the greatest books in the world, but good comfort reading.
