https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/805787.Bitter_Blood
I had to keep a notepad and pen beside me and at one point I honestly contemplated doing a family tree.Marjorie, a church friend of Tom Lynch’s mother, Dolores, makes an appearance in the first 322 pages and then is never heard of again.
He said he should receive the money Mrs Lynch would have inherited from her family, because of her role in the murders and those of her sons.”He had already received a share of the $400,000 estate of his ex-wife, Susan Lynch.Whatever made him believe he was entitled to any money from the estates of his ex-wife’s parents, and her grandmother?
Read this because it takes place in my hometown and surrounding areas. My family knew the Klenners, which made this an exciting read, but the prose style was lackluster and the structuring of sections of the story was tedious and hard to get through - the author gave every character's whole biography before explaining any of their relevance. It took about a hundred pages before the story felt like it properly began.
I like true crime stories, and I started reading this book I think because the murders were based in my home-state, North Carolina. I very good book to read if you like true crime novels. It's a bit slow going @ first, but it gets better and turns out to be a real page-turner.
My heart goes out to Tom Lynch.
I highly doubt Susie was controlled by Fritz, or anyone else, in fact it sounds like she was controlling everyone and everything her entire life.
Shame on her family for sitting back and doing nothing and making excuses for her, while 2 small boys suffered emotional abuse and brainwashing at her hands.
Her family and her lawyers all have BLOOD ON THEIR HANDS.
My heart goes out to Tom Lynch, may God bless him, and his precious sons, his mother and sister, and Susies parents and Manna.
This is a large book and as happens in many large tomes, it does drag in some places.
The true story of a well-placed southern family and the horrible murders that are visited up them is very disturbing.
It begins with two series of murders in different states that initially seem unconnected but soon we learn that there is indeed a family relationship.
Things turn dark very fast and the unthinkable happens.
It is a dark story that almost repels the reader but one that is fascinating as well.
If you have unlimited time and patience, you might enjoy this book. You will get excruciating details of every acquaintance who ever interacted with the primary characters, every trip they've ever taken, and every vitamin they've ever popped. (Seriously.) And just when you think there's nothing left to tell....there's another 5 chapters of "aftermath." I wish I'd never started this book...
True Crime Commemoration # 2Setting: 1980s oldham co KY and Winston-Salem NC
First of all, like many of the true crime books I read which were marketed and released before the Serial/Jinx/Making a Murderer era, this book's graphic design is humiliating and stupid.
Like yes, there are cars in the book but in my opinion that's not actually the scariest thing they could have chosen.
I dunno, before true crime became trendy and acceptable as art/literature/cultural artifact, it just was marketed and presented in the cheesiest way, in a way that basically tells you, "this will be trash."But, as for the actual content-- I thought it was solid!
Unbelievable story, I could not stop reading.
Each has their own unique quirks but all are very socially conscious since one family member is the first female judge in the court with a reputation to uphold.
The story opens with the first unexplained murder of the family matriarch and her daughter.
I read this 700 pages in just a couple of days and was horrified at the conclusion.
No spoiler alert here, but the ending took my breath away and I could not get the story off my mind.
A great read and an inside look into family, status, pride and the ultimate end of it all.
I read this years ago when it was serialized in the News and Record. A remarkable piece of writing and all the more enthralling by the fact that it took place where I lived. I would highly recommend it.
Well-written, disturbing and memorable, this is a true crime novel definitely worth reading.
His personal desire to explain the tragedy is evident on nearly every page as is his ultimate frustration at his inability to find finite answers to all that took place.The story of Susie Sharp Newsome Lynch and Fred "Fritz" Klenner is troubling on many levels.
When his family discovers he hasn't even graduated college let alone been accepted to medical school their first instinct is to cover it up, allowing Klenner to continue to pass himself off as a physician.The Newsomes were equally resistant to seeing serious problems in their daughter Susie.
This book has immense details surrounding tragic family murders.It is one of the most bizarre true crime stories I have read.I do believe a lot more could have been done by law enforcement to prevent the final tragedies.Prayers go out to all survivors.in my personal opinion lack of awareness and acceptance of mental illness play a huge part in how things exploded into an unfixable situation.It is hard to identify mental illness,especially in prominent families where a "problem"such as "crazy"just doesn't exist,why doesn't everyone know only poor people are nuts!Great Book Mr. Bledsoe!
I read this book on the recommendation of my dentist who went to dental school with Janie Newsome. This was my first true crime book, and maybe my last. I'm used to fiction and found this very dry and very clinical. History on every family member, every detective, judge, lawyer, neighbor, counselor, and reporter. I think he even covered the guy at the car wash. Okay, maybe it wasn't that bad, but I started skimming pages about 1/2 way thru. Maybe all true crime books are like this. Now I know.
There is a thing as too much information. I didn't need to know about the churches that each member of the police force belonged to. Yawn.On the other hand, the story was intriguing if a bit grisly. Certainly, it would be hard to develop a fiction as odd as this. The family tree helped and the photos were illuminating. Living in Greensboro definitely made it more interesting.
This was the most tedious book I've every tried to read. Can't believe I even made it through 225 pages. I did not need all that itty bitty teeny tiny background information on relatives that went back 2 generations (and spanned chapter after chapter) that had very little to do with the murders. I'll just Youtube the TV movie and move on to with a better use of my reading time.
If I could give this one more than "5 stars" I would; awesome read and scary someone could think and do these things. If you think you have a nutty family, be grateful! This one was "normal" too, except for a few explosive personalities that found one another or rubbed each other the wrong way! If I didn't have such a long reading list, I'd read this one again!
Dull as dishwater. This ought to be an interesting story, about a greedy woman who kills one family member after another to get to their money, but I didn't even finish it.
Couldn't get into it.
Yasssssss. This is true crime at its finest.
Many years ago I got drawn into a movie on television that was really long, and seemed to be based on true events, and then at the end it sounded like it wasn't, but it was, and it was this book, and a story this convoluted probably needed a movie that long.I have seen some complaints about the book length, but I like the rich details.
Some things probably could have been trimmed, but a lot of the detail adds understanding.The most haunting thing is the death of the boys, but it's hard to see how that could have been avoided.
However, there is one thing that would have helped a long time before.
Excellent This is a very involved TC book about murder among family ignored warning signs ,mental illness. and and prominent southern family .Hard to put down impossible to believe .Truth sometimes is stranger than fiction.
Very detailed account of a very tragic series of events. I purposely did not research this story outside of this book and let the author reveal the story to me. I was not disappointed. Shocking and almost unbelievable if you didn't know this was a true story. I especially appreciated the author's detailed account of the months and years following these events for all of the people involved. An oldie but a goodie!
This book tells the facts as they are, and not the ones we want to hear. This is not a negative for a true account book, just that it is a terribly sad set of facts. Bitter Blood covers the story of a family entrenched in the traumatic events of multiple murders within their family by two of their own. It is chilling.
What a shocker! How could they not see this coming??! I a was glued to the pages of this book. I don't often read true crime, but this one is a real attention grabber and heart breaker. After reading all of it I still wonder how this could've happened.Excellent read, amazing and tragic.
Good readGood readvery well researched, left you wondering. sad to think that people like these two murderers exist, it's scary. would recommend if into true crime.
read this for part of the curriculum for a criminology class. really good case study that reads like a novel.
Interesting true life crime drama. Lots of names to try and keep track of! Sad story but well written.
Today’s Nonfiction post is on Bitter Blood: A True Story of Southern Family Pride, Madness, and Multiple Murder by Jerry Bledsoe.
In this powerful and riveting tale of three families connected by marriage and murder … of obsessive love and bitter custody battles, Jerry Bledsoe recounts the shocking events that ultimately took nine lives, building to a truly horrifying climax that will leave you stunned.Review- This is a shocking true crime story.
The story moves strangely from the time of the murders to back into the far past the families, showing how events led to the murders and the ending conclusion.
The only link between the victims turns out to be two little boys whose father was part of the Kentucky family and whose mother was part of the North Carolina contingent.Sounds like a slam-dunk, doesn't it?
Especially when you factor in a bitter custody dispute between the boys' now-divorced parents, and the presence of a randomly wacko cousin with a penchant for guns and a habit of going around telling people he's a CIA assassin but they mustn't let anyone know.Unfortunately, the law-enforcement personnel involved in the separate investigations remain unaware of the connection.
