https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58033.Four_Great_Tragedies
HAMLET "Sumnjaj da l su zbilja sjajne zvezde ove,Sumnjaj da li sunce zna putanju svoju;Sumnjaj da li laž se istinom zove;Ali u ljubav ne posumnjaj moju..." Mislim da su ovi stihovi, pored Biti il` ne biti? - pitanje je sad. jedni od najpoznatijih izjava Hamletovih.Prvo čitanje je bilo obavezno, za školu, ovo drugo, to je samo za mene.I dalje nalazim da je poezija, kako antička, tako i srednjevekovna, Šekspirovska, bila prepuna jakih osećanja i slabih duša i umova. Sumnjam da će se naći i jedna p
Govori o svojoj kraljici i sreći što je sada njegova, a ne njegovog brata, a opet mu je svejedno kada uzima otrovanu čašu...primera je mnogo, jednostavno nije ostavio dovoljno jak utisak na mene kao zlikovac ove priče); pojavljivanje duha, na početku tako značajno, a kasnije mu nema ni traga, pa ni da zahteva osvetu ni da se njome, na posletku, konačno zadovolji;Kraljica je ostala toliko nedorečen lik, a imala je potencijala biti i sjajan zlikovac (realno je plot twist mogao biti da je ona učestvovala u zaveri da joj se prvi muž ubije kada se, nakon samo dva meseca, preudala za njegovog brata i ubicu) ali i neko sposoban za pokajanje ali avaj, zašto trošiti reči na ženu?Što me opet dovodi do Ofelije, devojke koja je bila spremna odreći se Hamleta na prvu očevu reč a opet, nakon očeve smrti i svog pada u ludilo, nariče za njim i utapa se zbog prezrene ljubavi?A sam Hamlet...na početku spreman da ubije, zatim se neprestano premišlja i muči sebe a onda ni okom ne trepne kada greškom ubije Polonija, u naletu psihičkog rastrojstva?
If there is a lesson common to all of these tragedies, it is not to go jumping to conclusions.
You may have mispercieved the situation because your ego is in the way (King Lear).
You may think you are avoiding fate, when actually you are placing yourself right in the way of it by doing something ethically questionable (Macbeth).
Or you may just be a little to self-righteous for your own good (Hamlet).
Tragedy in these works is usually brought about by the protagonists own misuse of power or action.
Shakespeare gives some good warning here to check yourself before you go off on a tangent.
Up front, I love Shakespeare.
The first play I ever saw onstage was Richard Burton's rehearsal dress "Hamlet" back in the Sixties when I was in my teens.
I have seen Hamlets since then--from Jacobi to Gibson--and liked them all, but nothing can ever replace that first experience.
Adding to the delight that reading Shakespeare brings other pleasures, a chance to savor words and phrases that are bantered about the stage and replaced quickly by other words and phrases.
If you have never, ever read Shakespeare--start with Macbeth, a short play with witches and ghosts and things that go bump in the night.
Okay, I love Shakespeare!
I have read this book over and over, for classes and for leisure, and my absolute favorite play is King Lear.
I love how Lear goes from being king down to being nothing.
I think that it's Shakespeare's most brilliant and misogynist play.
Regan and Goneril are so united and terribly ambitious and they pretty much throw it away over Edmund, going along with saying that "down from the waist they are centaurs", lustful centaurs that will risk a kingdom for a penis.
He is a wonderful villain and a mastermind, and the only reason to read Othello.
An essay I wrote for a class,Christopher F. BrownProf. Chris WeidenbachEnglish 017 / Shakespeare 11/30/2013A Brief Unpacking And Examination Of Corruption And Nationalism Through The Shakespearian Plays: Macbeth, Julius Caesar, Othello, And Troilus & Cressida. In a paper about the play, “Julius Caesar” I wrote that “Julius Caesar,” “. . . is a message of warning against, and commentary about nationalism.” The underlying themes of, commentaries about, Nationalism and Corruption are also very
The ideology of Nationalism is defined by Merriam Webster’s on-line dictionary as, “Loyalty and devotion to a nation, especially: a sense of national consciousness exalting one nation above all others and placing primary emphasis on promotion of the culture and interests as opposed to those of other nations or supranational groups.” Corruption is, defined, again defined by Merriam Webster’s on-line dictionary, as “Impairment of integrity, virtue, or moral principle: depravity, decay, decomposition, inducement to wrong by improper or unlawful means (as bribery) a departure from the original or from what is pure or correct.” 	In the play, “Othello” the character of Othello is constantly referred to as “The Moor.” On the surface, this is just a term that lets the reader know that Othello is of North African descent, and possible a Muslim, Shakespeare never directly writes such in the play but it is inferred as such.
This book is great in that it compiles Shakespeare's four main tragedies, but its font is very small, its pages are short, and putting together all of these texts makes it difficult to hold the book and flip the pages.
The notes that go along with the plays are difficult to read because they are listed beneath each page of the play, and the formatting is just awkward.
Definitely much harder to read than the Barnes & Noble Editions of Shakespeare's works.I think that the plays in this book are great, but the format and structure of the book make it difficult to read it.
I'd already read Hamlet and Othello, but getting Lear and Othello for only $1 still seemed like a worthwhile investment.
In addition to the annotated text of each play, notes include how each play has actually been performed, Shakespeare's historical sources, and suggestions for further reading, almost 800 pages in all.
I just finished Macbeth which I read in conjunction with Asimov's Guide to Shakespeare and plan to read Lear in the near future.
This book includes a four pages of memorable lines from each of the four plays, and Macbeth certainly had its fair share.
As heretical as it may sound, I find Shakespeare to be unparalleled in many ways if overrated. These four tragedies, especially, are fatalistic and deterministic (however explicitly otherwise at times), which is a flaw. However, the blank verse poetry is deservedly considered part of "the canon", and the characterizations are rich and deep. This edition has helpful footnotes, textual notes, and bibliographies--the editing seems exhaustive and learned.
4+ star stories, 2 star presentation. Another case of too much detracting from the stories. Hamlet, Othello, King Lear, and Macbeth are all great tales, but this format makes me less than likely to keep this book on my shelves due to its size and lacking portability.
Duh.
Had a whole class on Shakespeare in college. As we all know, he is the master and the work you put in to reading will be richly rewarded.
Hamlet, Othello, King Lear, and Macbeth all share the pages and are edited by four different people, one for each play.
It's a great viewing of the human soul and the chaos that can abound within if unchecked.Below are a brief synopsis for each play of the story that are really simplistic, but may help someone who is not used to or confident in reading barebones Shakespeare without translation.I like to say that Hamlet is the story of The Lion King to make it easier for readers to understand.
However, even without the witches, the play could run its course without the supernatural as Macbeth is guided by many regular individuals in the text to destruction based on a hope that he will come into great power.
Classics!
Of course the answer is no, but we are so far beyond straws breaking camels’ backs, the camel now crushed beyond recognition, that I thought there’s no harm in adding my own humble contribution, another page or so to the endless body of works surrounding The Bard, quietly inching us towards the 37 million mark.My review: Shakespeare tells a good story, and writes a good character.
These plays often hearken to an end of days where death acts as tabula rasa; it’s questionable whether those spared are any more fortunate than those who died.
Hamlet (4/5): I read this for the first time several years ago and I find I appreciate more the older I get.
What a guy to have as a friend!Othello (3/5): This one I enjoy more so for the character of Iago.
He's the main character more than Othello is.King Lear (5/5): This one is perhaps a little but underestimated, or at least I think it is.
Lear's fall into madness is upsetting but oh so real.
The parallel plot with Gloucester and his sons is just as unfortunate and intriguing, the character of Edmund almost up there with Iago in my books.
Reviews of Hamlet and Macbeth can be found on other editions.
Othello:Definitely one of my favorites of Shakespeare's plays!
The irony was through the roof and it was just so fantastic!
Yes, it's tragic but it was also kinda hilarious.
But I felt like I was just missing stuff, which is unusual in Shakespeare.
This was one of his last plays though so I think it wasn't quite finished.
And it's different versions had a lot of conflicting accounts of what happened.
There were literally different endings.
Honestly I don't know how so many scholars think this is Shakespeare's best tragedy.
These plays are not science fiction, not even close, so I don't know why this book was included in the list of science fiction books, but I have read them, and I recommend them--for viewing.
If only read, these plays will not come to life.
These plays were meant to be performed.
No performance conveys the full potential of the play (and some are bad), so multiple versions are necessary.
Reading the play helps, but I can't recommend reading alone.
When you've seen these plays interpreted several ways, you get insights into their brilliant potential.
You become more interested in the text.
What can really be said about Shakespeare that does him justice or hasn't been said before?
'Not much' is the answer, but I always loved the following quote by Robert Graves:"The remarkable thing about Shakespeare is that he is really very good - in spite of all the people who say he is very good."And it's a thought that continues to shine in truth every time I read Shakespeare.
He really is the grandaddy, the quarterback, the star, the most beautiful girl in school and so on and so forth.
In short, Shakespeare is fucking awesome, and this collection of his four major tragedies is bitchin'.
Thoroughly enjoyed these with great productions on DVD from Netflix and The Teaching Company course "Shakespeare's Tragedies" with lecturer Claire McKinney from University of Virginia.Movie versions I watched and recommend:Hamlet: Compare the Royal Shakespeare Company's production of Hamlet starring David Tennant and Patrick Stewart as Claudius (2009) with Kenneth Branagh's chandelier-swinging version (1996).Othello: Oliver Parker starring Laurence Fishburne as Othello and Kenneth Branagh as Iago (1995).Macbeth: Rupert Goold's bloody totalitarian version of Macbeth starring Patrick Stewart and Kate Fleetwood (2010).
Wow! My daughter gave me Shakespeare's Complete Works for Christmas last year (behind in notes and dates - strange year). I decided to read the 4 tragedies first. My mother's father (a teacher in the Appalachians) used to tell me Shakespeare plays as childhood stories but he would recite some soliloquies. My favorite was MacBeth because of the Lady MacBeth role. Thank you Grandpa and thank you Mom.
Good texts of four of Shakespeare's key plays. The Macbeth text includes some of the scenes with Hecate that were likely written by other authors, and the Hamlet text is inclusive of scenes that appear only in Q2. Those of you who haven't read these plays - drop what you're doing and get an edition and read them. The Ardens are the best, but if you are in China and only have access to the Bantam, then the Bantam it must be.
First off you will be surprised to find out that 'Hamlet' alone was this lengthy. Secondly, it takes unbelievably long because of old archaic words that needs translation almost word by word. Yes, same English but how words have changed over time!Last but not least, you thought you knew about the story, maybe so, but not Hamlet himself until you read it with great concentration. Forget about different versions and missing parts. 'Cause you still have enough to carry on!
I originally bought this book years ago when we read Macbeth and Hamlet. I just finished King Lear and it was good (we read Othello earlier in high school). The thing I Telly like about this text is that it leaves the text itself pretty much alone. It does make notes, but they are all at the bottom of the page leaving the reader as interrupted as they choose. Its also really nice to have four of Shakespeare's greatest tragedies right there.
well.. my liking to these four tragedies varies from one to another. Yet I enjoyed the whole collection!! Feel like I would have never enjoy if I read some of them & left the others!!It was a pleasure to meet four different glorious personae, regfardless their flaws. It just helped me heave a deep sigh of releif saying to myself: it's not only me who make disateroud things :-|
i'm rereading hamlet for the first time since high school, and this time around, my favorite line comes from polonius: this is too long. that guy cracks me up. i read the history plays earlier this summer, and the difference between their more-or-less constant plot movement and hamlet's indecision is pretty great. i think prince hal might have finished off claudius while he was praying.
What is there to say? This anthology contains four of Shakespeare's best plays. They are completely engaging and awesome in every way. My only criticism is of a lack of critical texts that are usually accompanied with the signet classic Shakespeare books. Nevertheless, this is a great collection of plays that no doubt will entertain anyone who chooses to read it.
As the name suggests, all the plays have tragic endings. Although, one hopes that it were not so; at the same time, you realise that the tragic ending is what 'maketh' them realistic. Such is the power of Shakespeare's writing. His plays portray emotions and feelings of jealousy, envy, rage and revenge.
So I loved Othello because of Iago, and Macbeth was interesting because of Lady Macbeth. Lear, and Hamlet were okay, but they didn't really grab my attention. I'm seeing a pattern though, and it's pointing to deviously insane people. Especially because one of my favorite Harry Potter characters in Bellatrix.
From Othello the moor of Venice:Iago: ”Zound, sir ,you are robbed. For shame ,put on your gown, your heart is burst, you have lost half your soul. Even now ,very now, an old black ram is tupping your white ewe. Arise, arise, awake the snorting citizens with the bell or else the devil will make a grandsire of you. Arie, I say.
Introductions for each play give a brief synopsis, inserting factoids like, Hamlet is the longest play, Macbeth is the shortest, as well as, the ways Shakespeare himself adapted many of the plays from earlier sources. According to Prof. Huang, "Folgers is good for K-12, but this is for serious grad students." Emphasis on serious.
