https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/824854.The_Pain_and_the_Great_One
I hear this book everyday in my house right now.
This is so well done.There are two parts to this story.
First part is about the little brother from the big sisters POV.
He gets everything, life is so unfair.
The second part is the big sister from the little brothers POV.
She is perfect and gets everything.
I know I was this way with my brother too.
The illustrations did not wow me, but they help tell the story.
The story seems to be the perfect interplay, at least in our house.The kids were funny.
This book is perfect childhood.
Big sister (The Great One) thinks little brother (The Pain) gets away with everything and is coddled by mom and dad.
I liked that there was no obvious lesson in this book because when you're little you're going to hate your brother or sister no matter how much mom or dad tries to make you love them and show you you need your brother or sister.
There is no resolution at the end of this story and that's perfectly fine.The illustrations are cute, but as a kid, I always thought of them as the "cheap" drawings.
Judy Blume was a fixture in my childhood, but somehow this book slipped through my radar. Had I seen it when I was a kid, I would have seen my brother and me in it! And I still do! This is a great book to use as a mentor text when taking sides on an issue. It is also a great mentor text for making connections -- because unless you are an only child, we all have stories of sibling rivalry from when we were younger.
I did not, however like the parenting mentioned throughout the book.
The parents DO show favoritism, to each of the kids in the book.
I get that this book was probably written to help children in such a situation relate to their other siblings, but the fault is not with the kids.
Please let me know what it is, I can't wait to hear what you've come up with." Instead of chastising one or the other and trying to solve such a simple problem for the kids.
Too many books lie, because they think children can't hear the truth.
And the next day they remembered, not the moral, but the rivalry.Each child's rant about their brother/sister ends with the thought that maybe their parents like the other one best.
I did just last week, and I'm an adult :) There's no reassurance here except the other sibling saying the same thing.If you're uncomfortable with this sort of presentation of facts, I'd suggest you borrow the book from the library before buying.
Otherwise, I firmly suggest you buy this book for your own library.
I thought this book was definitely a book that most children could relate to when it comes to family.
The younger sibling feels inferior to the older sibling because he/she can do things better than the young sibling can.
So both children try to do things on their own and find that it’s really not fun without the other sibling.
I think this a good book for young readers because if they have siblings they can probably relate.
The book will show them that their parents love both of them, but the attention comes in different forms.
The Pain and the Great One is a story that most children can relate to.
It’s about Jake (The Pain) and Abigail (The Great One) who are siblings.
Their problem is that they are always arguing about everything.
However, they come to realise when serious problems arise, such as bullying, they are both there for each other.
I enjoyed the book greatly, as I felt I could relate to it, having siblings myself.
The book also teaches children about important issues such as how to deal with bullying, the importance of asking for help if you need it and looking out for your friends.
The joys of sisterhood when you have younger brother who absolutely gets on your nerves.
In this story the main character has named her younger brother The Pain because he gets away with all types of things that mom and dad would not let her get away with and he is destructive.
On the other end the younger brother names his sister The Great One because mom and dad believes that she is really smart and she gets to be responsible for things around the house.
We see the world through our eyes. We judge others by our standards. The saying we should walk a mile in another's shoes first is wise advice. How do you teach this to a child? How many of us forget to do this?This book opens that door. The daughter is two years older than her brother. He is so often a nuisance.The son is younger. He sees his sister doing things he can't yet.I highly recommend this book for all children to read and talk about. It wouldn't hurt for parents to read and think about these issues too.
Could Judy Blume have known my little brother and I any better?! He was the pain and I suppose I was the great one. The way the girl described her brother and the preferential treatment was exactly how I felt as a kid towards him. So I know when the little brother was doing the same that it must be how my brother felt about me. Interesting! Blume did a great job with showing both sides!
I think that this book is trying to tell how they both feel about each other.My opinion is that they may have different feeling about each other because they are siblings.I will recommend this book who has similar feelings like the people in the book.
My students always enjoy this book. I read it to illustrate point of view. The kids have many connections to the stories of these contentious but lovable siblings.
Its a really funny book. Dont get your hopes up they don't get along at the end. I say agin its a funny book.
It was good though if you don't know my favorite character think harder I'm a boy who else is a boy in the story???
i also read this 2 my sis v cute reccomend 10/10
Enjoyed it very much !
The story is split into two sections: the Great One's point of view and the Pain's point of view.
The book is relatable for most children, but it always seemed to describe my brother and I perfectly.
Not to mention, my younger brother is two years younger, just like the Pain in the book.
Both complain about what the other does, sees how boring it is without them, tells more about how annoying the other is and then claims that their parents love the other child more.
The parents tell each child to "Remember that tomorrow" when they say it's boring without their sibling.
"The Pain and the Great One" is a contemporary realistic fiction picture book for children ages 5 and up.
It's written by Judy Blume, who's very well known for her work in contemporary realistic fiction.
It won an IRA-CBC Children's Choice Award, as well as a Young Readers Choice Award.The book is told from two different perspectives: a young brother (The Pain) and his older, pre-teen sister (The Great One).
I grew up with an older sister, and we were always annoyed with one another.
If you have a sibling, I think this book can help you see things from the other sibling's point of view.
The Pain and the Great One is about a brother and a sister who both complain about each other all of the time.
At the end of the great one’s views, her parents allow her to stay up later because she is older than the pain.
At the end of the pain’s views, he wants to play by himself, but quickly realizes it is not fun without his sister.
I think this book could also used to teach theme and how characters change throughout a story.
“The Pain and The Great One,” is about two siblings, an older sister and younger brother, and the story is told from two different points of views.
The first half of the story is told from the older sister’s point of view about her little brother, The Pain, and how she feels her parents love her little brother more than her.
The second half of the book is told from the younger brother’s point of view about his older sister, The Great One, and how he feels his parents like his sister more because she older, able to do more independent things, and can-do things he cannot do.
Brother is convinced his parents love Sister more.
Sister believes Brother is the favorite.
It's hard to exaggerate the value of this lesson, even for adults.Reading this with my 6- and 8-year-olds (same ages as the brother/sister pair in the book), we had a great discussion about how you can think you understand everything, but you don't.
Together, we analyzed the little things Brother & Sister ignored as they chose to focus on the negative.
And a week after reading it, we're still talking about perspective, so important in every day life.
I'm so glad we read this together.
i would suggest this book to any family have 2 kids, one is boy and the other is girl.
the pain is talking about the little boy.
the other section, the little boy talk about how much his parent love his sister and he doesn't know why it like that.
Judy writing by using the real issue that happen in people lives so it better for the reader interested in the topic and able finish books.
Judy is not a big fan of illustration so you will not see a punch of pictures in the page.
each pages only have one picture in different corner related part of the text or the paragraph.
This book reminded me of my little brothers and myself.
This book described my childhood well, and I often found myself laughing at the accurate descriptions of what many brother and sisters think about each other.
It's genre could be considered to be either realistic fiction or comedy/humor.
The themes seem to be sibling rivalry, conflict resolution, and mischief.
This book would be most suited for children aged 6 to 9.
However, I found it very enjoyable for adults as well.
In fact, we had read the book Clementine by Sara Pennypacker earlier that year and the students made a text-to-text connection without even knowing what a text-to-text connection was!
My kindergarten students were able to compare the book, The Pain and the Great One to Clementine and the fact that Clementine always wondered why her parents called her brother "The Easy One." This is a great story about siblings, learning to get along, and realizing that love is constant regardless of the screaming matches, stolen toys and the every day challenges that siblings face while growing up.
For each of the ten days that they would be gone, my mother left a little present for my brother and I.
One of the gifts was this book.
The Pain and the Great One. My mother gave it to us because the characters were just like my brother and I.
We each thought of ourselves as The Great One and the sibling was The Pain.
Much to my disappointment, I've since learned that my brother is The Great One and I'm the Pain.
But this book still holds a special place in my heart.
We recently read Soupy Saturdays with the Pain and the Great One and liked it and saw that this was a picture book about the brother and sister.
I love that the children are 6 and 8 and in first and third grade.
Each has a perspective on life in the family and each one believes that Mom and Dad love the other better.
It's a picture book that introduces us to the family and we are looking forward to reading more books in the series.
This picture book is titled The pain and the Great One. It is a realistic fiction book that could be used with young children up until about third or fourth grade even.
This is a story about a younger brother (The Pain) and an older sister (The Great One).
They deal with issues such as jealousy and competition.
This story can be used to show that sibling rivalry is a common issue and most siblings deal with it in some sort of way.
Student cannot only learn from this story but it can help them come up with their own ways of problem solving with their own families.
Mommy says: What a great book!
But when does Judy Blume ever disappoint?
This is the same story (Mom and Dad love the other sibling better) told from two different perspectives (the big sister and the little brother).
It was spot on for the rivalry that goes on in our house.
And it was plenty fun to sit there after the book discussing with both kids who the parents in the book loved more.
They both got it right away that the mom and dad loved their kids equally, and they made the jump from the book family to their own without any trouble.
I feel like it's cheating to claim this is a book for 2015 but indeed it is and I did read it.This is actually written like a free verse poem with some darling illustrations that tell the story of the The Pain (little brother) and the Great One (big sister). It's super short and would be great for emerging readers or for reluctant or poor older readers because while short and simple, the subject matter isn't too "babyish".This is the tenth Judy Blume title I've read this year with 13 to go.
Typical siblings, the sister thinks her younger brother is a "pain" and the brother doesn't understand why the older sister seems to be such a "great one." A good resource for teaching early elementary students about point-of-view in literature.*UPDATE* Can't really explain why, but Piper (age 2) LOVES this book. The topic (sibling rivalry) is completely foreign to her, and the illustrations don't seem that appealing to me, but she keeps digging this one out of my library bag to read to her.
