https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140751.Maigret_and_the_Burglar_s_Wife
The Maigret stories are in general very good drawings of situations that went wrong and needs a policeman to bring the truth to the light.Here the book opens with a lady of the night telling the story of her missing husband to the policeman who arrested her so long ago.
And Maigret does so even when there is no body found but him encountering mother & son he decides that there might be more truth to the story of the burglar's wife.Not one of the greatest Maigret stories but a great drawing of characters involved and a beautiful insight of a Paris and Europe of old.
The only problem is no murder has been reported...It's been many years since I last read a Maigret novel, but the recent Penguin re-issues in new translations piqued my interest in re-visiting him.
The first thing he has to do in this case is establish that there has actually been a murder, and Ernestine helps by explaining how Freddie selects the houses he burgles.
The eventual solution is not quite as straightforward as it seems as if it's going to be, though, and along the way Simenon creates a chilling atmosphere of evil at work, and family dynamics gone horribly wrong.Overall, I found this a thoroughly enjoyable read.
This is classic Maigret and though it's midway through the series, it's also perfectly fine as a place to start for those new to Simenon.
This new Penguin translation feels smooth and natural, and keeps some of the low-key humour of the originals.Unlike many contemporary crime writers, Simenon doesn't believe in wasted words: he keeps things short, sharp and abbreviated, ditching all extraneous words.
I first started reading these books when I was studying French at school since they're relatively easy reading in the original (partly because of the proportion of dialogue over exposition and description) so it's nice to find they're still fresh and now with an unclunky translation.
Madame Jussiaume pops into Maigret’s office to advise him that her husband had fled the scene of his impending crime on Tuesday night when he found a bloodied woman’s body.Meticulous as always — and as daring as always — Maigret goes step by step, deploying his loyal police officers, tirelessly questioning witnesses and suspects alike, until he brings the culprits to justice.
An incredibly fine read that I highly recommend.In the interest of full disclosure, I received this book from NetGalley and Penguin Classics in exchange for an honest review.
And thank you, Penguin Classics, for reissuing the entire Maigret series a book at a time.
A book I have read before and remember the faithful TV adaptation with Michael Gambon in the 90's.Just over 3 years ago Penguin began reissuing all 75 of Georges Simenon’s Inspector Maigret novels at a rate of one per month, commissioning new modern translation, returning to original titles and producing them in their original publication order.With 'Maigret and the Tall Woman' I have now read 38 such titles and I am up to date with the ones so far issued.
Therefore, it shows the art of questioning that if any suspect can stick to their story can remainunable to be charged without sufficient evidence to support the case.
It's a pity this is an ebook, otherwise my fellow commuters might've caught a glimpse of the cover and secretly hoped I'd be their friend.Maigret and the Tall Woman is the 38th of the 76 novels Simenon wrote about his titular inspector, and as about a typical example of the series as you could hope for.
That's not a criticism; with their low page counts and procedural nature, the Maigret novels have the feel of a quality television crime drama.
No padding, no fluff, just an absolute confidence in the author and the crime genre's literary ability.My God Maigret, you're just so cool.
This one just keeps building to a virtual white-heat of tension.
But there is no report of a death or indeed a burglary from the house in question, and when Maigret visits the house there is no body either; only an elderly woman, her dentist son and a report that the son’s estranged wife had left him a few days before.Without a body, any evidence of murder and two uncommunicative suspects, Maigret has to solve what has happened and obtain evidence of guilt.In truth, this is a slight piece, and although every Simenon novel has its virtues, this is not one of his best.
Maigret solves his case in a rather perfunctory fashion.
– Yes I have to add that upon finishing this detective you’ll be well aware of, what feels like, all the brasseries offering alcohol drinks in 1950s Paris.- Then he sets off to the house ,where , presumably, a murder has been comitted.
However, to Maigret’s surprise, he finds that no murder has been reported although something about the atmosphere in the house gets him suspicious so in order to think carefully about what the case may be he decides to visit a brasserie across the street and drink some wine.I suggest you to pick up this detective of Georges Simenon’s if you’re in for a fast-paced read filled with intrigues.
My first Maigret book. Definitely enjoyable, although dear god does he drink a lot while working. Anyway, I'll definitely read more.
A woman from the detective's past reappears and asks him to help find her missing husband. Available at BBC Radio 7.
Highly enjoyable. It was gratifying to arrive at the last page and see: Shadow Rock Farm Lakeville, ConnecticutI lived in the small town of Lakeville for a number of years. So marvelous that for a time the great Simenon lived and wrote there...
Ernestine (or La Grande Perche as she is also known) wants Maigret’s help in investigating the death of the mysterious woman and clearing up matters quickly so that her husband can return home without the threat of a murder charge hanging over his head.Maigret and the Tall Woman is the 38th book in Georges Simenon’s hugely popular detective series and Maigret is once again in fine form.
The atmosphere of the smoke-filled, overly warm interrogation room is particularly well drawn, with Maigret’s questioning of both suspects and witnesses adding a great deal of tension to the story.Maigret and the Tall Woman is another excellent detective novel from Georges Simenon.
I would like to thank Netgalley and Penguin Books UK for a review copy of Maigret and The Tall Women, the 38th novel in the series of Paris based police procedurals.Sad Freddy, a safe cracker, phones his wife Ernestine, the eponymous Tall Woman, to tell her that he had to abandon the job he was on and go on the run because he found a dead body and was seen leaving the premises in Neuilly.
It reads extremely well and seems to fit the period.I really like these novels and Maigret and the Tall Woman is no exception.
You just can't beat a good Maigret and I read this quickly and with great pleasure.
This, like all of them, is as much about character and Parisian life as about crime, but it's done so well that you absorb it all while being involved in the story.
The plot development is steady and secure but it is, as always, the characters, Maigret's means of confronting suspects and the Parisian atmosphere (here in a hot late summer) which linger.The new translation by David Watson is excellent.
It is readable and true to the spirit of the original so that you forget that you are reading a translation which is exactly how it should be.
A woman from Maigret's past asks for help from the famous police inspector.
Her husband a safe cracker has disappeared after breaking into a house to rob a safe, however whilst carrying out his job he spots a dead body in the room, panics, runs but doesn't run to his wife instead leaving Paris to go into hiding.
Maigret accepts the case and comes up against two challenging foes.Everyone should try the Maigret novels, they are a joy to read and leave you wanting more.
Luckily there is a large canon of novels, and Penguin are reissuing them (one a month).
I will no longer apologize for liking and reading mysteries, just as Maigret would never apologize for a couple of extra glasses of wine with lunch. I remember my mother reading this series--can't believe I just rediscovered them now. Quality story with lovely French color and atmosphere. Definitely going to keep reading these!
This seemed to be just a run-of-the mill, mediocre detective story--not at all what I expected Simenon to be like. I did enjoy reading about Maigret's drinking, which plays a prominent role. Man, he can throw back the Pernod.
A dentist and his mother. Two wives and a husband. A safe installer / safe cracker. A nice little murder mystery. Mme M spends some time in the Brasserie Dauphine and the PJ (where she's not allowed to comment on the mess or the dust!).
Interesting.
Classic cat and mouse detective story. All the traditional Simenon characteristics are in place, economy of style, psychological insight, Maigret's authentic plodding persistence.
Another very atmospheric tale from Simenon. Difficult to say too much without giving the game away. Thoroughly enjoyable.
I forgot what a pleasure it is to read Simenon and his wonderful character Inspector Maigret.
Look, I personally love classic crime - and Maigret (recently brought to life by Rowan Atkinson), definitely falls into this category.
The "tall woman" is the wife of a career safe-cracker (a woman whom Maigret knew from years gone by).
I was introduced to Maigret and others of his ilk many, many years ago, and then sometime ago, I indulged myself in reading a vast array of classic crime (for the pure joy of it) - Simenon was among the many authors.
Никога не съм бил фен на криминалните романи, но Мегре не е лош.
Той по-скоро набляга на полицейската процедура и на обикновения живот, който Мегре води, докато върши спокойно работата си.В тази книга ми направи впечатление (това може и в другите да го има, тук го забелязах просто), колко много се пие в работно време.
Полицаите си поръчват да им донесат вино на работа от близката кръчма, съвсем нормално за всеки е да пийне бутилка вино или 2-3 "аператива" като мастика с обяда, а обикаляйки из града да разпитва хора, Мегре по няколко пъти на ден сяда в заведения, за по халба бира - сам, с колеги или с някой, с когото трябва да говори.
A first-rate Maigret, halfway through the series.
Sympathetic portrayal of the regular criminal classes, and how things go wrong for them.
Plus an interestingly dysfunctional victim family - or are they?The GR blurb:'While committing what he intends to be his last burglary, "Sad Freddie" discovers something completely out of his line: the body of a dead woman, her chest covered in blood, holding a telephone in her hand.
Inspector Maigret is called in to solve the crime, and after an exhaustive search, a psychological duel, a marathon interrogation, and innumerable glasses of Pernod, wine, cold beer, and brandy--a sure sign that this is no easy case--the famous French sleuth triumphs.'
The inspector is visited at headquarters by a tall woman named Ernestine who discloses that Maigret once arrested her -- and she distinguished herself at the time by stripping all her clothes off and insisting on being apprehended this way.
Ernestine begs Maigret for help in finding the corpse so that her husband's name will be cleared, but over the next few days no murder is reported.As usual, through his dogged methods and unusual powers of intuition, Maigret concludes that there actually has been a murder, and he narrows down the field of suspects to just a few.
Otro caso para el gran detective Maigret! esta vez limpiando de polvo y paja a un reincidente ladrón de cajas fuertes...muy buena historia!
They managed to re-ignite my love of reading that my school had all but brow beaten out of me by making me read books I had little or no interest in.
Anyway, this having been more than several years ago, I really don't know whether I had already read this book, I couldn't remember it, but that doesn't mean much being as my memory is on the whole rubbish so, apart from my familiarity with the characters I considered this book to be a new read.What I really love about these books is the chapter introductions giving you a brief precis about what will happen.
I love Maigret and the atmosphere in Simenon's novels.
