https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37796866-vox
I have never met a Christian who wants to oppress people the way they do in this book.
If anyone wanted to talk to me about Christianity, I would do so with an open and friendly heart and not desire them to be oppressed in any way for not being just like me.
If anything, I would like to show her that Christians are reasonable and friendly people – don’t let the few bad apples who get all the screen time cause you to group us together with them.
"Honestly, Jacko. You're getting hysterical about it."Her words flew at me like poisoned arrows. "Well, someone needs to be hysterical around here."   I am absolutely blown away. My heart and soul are just dangling by a thread. Honestly, I have not been this angered (and wonderfully angered) in a long, long time.  Think about what you need to do to stay free. Denial, deliberation and the decisive moment: three response stages to any impending disaster. Rush through the first two and act as soon
That's how you live.Dr. Jean McClellan, an American linguistic scientist and mother of four, saw all the signs - women representation decreasing in the government, the resurgence of the "pure" religion, the slow chipping away at female freedoms - yet she did nothing.
Think about it...Think about words like 'spousal permission' and 'paternal consent.' Think about waking up one morning and finding you don't have a voice in anything."
Every day they received 100 words and severe consequences followed every infraction.Jean, as linguistic specialist, knows better than anyone what will happen if a child is denied language or an adult is forced to stifle all forms of communication.
Maybe this is how it happened in Germany with the Nazis, in Bosnia, with the Serbs, in Rwanda with the Hutus. I’ve often wondered about that, how kids can turn into monsters, how they can learn that killing is right and oppression is just, how in one single generation the world can change on its axis into a place that is unrecognizable. Easily, I think, and push out of my chair. Words matter. If your ideal of womanhood tends toward the Stepford-ish, Vox will present an image of paradise. For th
But the point of the novel is not, clearly, to present a real potential future, but to highlight the importance of speech, of language in personal and political freedom, particularly for women.Image from Betanews.comThese are notions that merit consideration.
(Fake news?) We live in a NewSpeakian world, so looking at the power of language, or words and how they are used and controlled offers considerable insight into the non-science-fiction reality we currently inhabit.
America, love it or leave it!Image from Yomyomf.comDalcher offers examples of how language denigrates women in common parlance, without getting all, you know, hormonal about it.
This definitely should be a book that goes into depth with the feelings and thoughts of its characters, but it failed big time.
Hey, I totally understand that one would start to despise the other gender if it was the reason why you're being oppressed and not allowed to talk or work.
It were more things like "he's not a real man because he wouldn't beat up someone for spitting on his car" or "All boys like to blow things up" Wtf?
How weird is that in a book that's about feminism and empowerment of women?
My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr... As soon as I read the description for this novel, I knew it was a book I HAD to read.   I’m often running to Google for one thing or another when I’m reading a thought-provoking book. But this time, I was Googling things before I even had the novel in hand. The first thing I had to know was how many words the average person speaks in a day. Google told me:The average woman speaks 20,000 words a day. The average man speaks 7
But this time, I was Googling things before I even had the novel in hand.
The first thing I had to know was how many words the average person speaks in a day.
Google told me:The average woman speaks 20,000 words a day.
Jean's husband, Patrick reminds her with a tap on her counter that she only has a few words left for the day.
She told them to think about words like ‘spousal permission’ and ‘paternal consent.’ Think about waking up one morning and finding you don’t have a voice in anything.” But now THEY need Jean's help, her expertise.
A counter worn by women allows them to speak when spoken to and then only minimally.
Once the allotted one hundred words per day are spent, negative reinforcement is administered to the offending female in the form of a painful shock.
Other than these few words, women are not allowed any other form of communication: no email, snail mail, books, pens, or internet access.
The gay community is relegated to working farms (concentration camps), a teenage son is indoctrinated into the tenets of male supremacy and a six year old daughter’s words vanish.
Gone are the days of inclusion, tolerance and attempts at harmony.
along with that, all typical dysto-rules apply: homosexuals are imprisoned until they come around and choose heterosexuality, premarital and extramarital sex has heavy consequences (for women), women aren’t allowed to read or write or work or use birth control or even collect the mail from their own mailboxes, and cameras are everywhere making sure these rules are followed.this book is two things - it’s a cautionary tale about noninvolvement/nonparticipation, about ignoring the signs and the trends until it’s too late, and it’s also an author with a doctorate in theoretical linguistics having herself a “what if” party about excising language from 1/2 of the population.
as a thought piece, this book deserves all the stars.but as a novel, i cant give this more than three.
that sure came in handy as the majority of the plot focuses on the main characters job as a linguistics researcher (write what you know, eh?).
i would definitely recommend this to anyone looking for a dystopian book that will plant a little seed of thought into their brain, but just dont expect too much from this in regards to storytelling.
4 thought-provoking and brave stars to Vox!I don’t usually read dystopian books, and to be honest, I’m not that familiar with the genre.
Upon reading the premise of Vox, I knew it would have a place on my reading list because of its timeliness and the bravery of the author in taking on this fictional topic.
In a place founded on freedom, women and girls no longer have theirs.
Girls are only taught math in school, and reading and writing is for boys only.
The writing is flawless, and the set-up of the premise feels completely authentic.
THREE STARSAccording to my lazy Google search, the average woman speaks around 20,000 words/day.
In this frightening precautionary tale, women are restricted to speaking less than 100 words a day.
The premise is strong and all too real in this alternative reality where women's rights are slowly chipped away by a strong tide of religious fundamentalism until finally, we quite literally lose the language needed to speak up for ourselves.
Well, that my friends is the story.I desperately wanted to love this book.
About 50% into the book, I felt disconnected from the characters and story, and it became a slow-going slog to finish.
Women, even babies are fitted with a leather wristband that limits the words spoken in a day to a hundred.
Books are locked up, only able to be accessed by men.
This is the pure movement in the US and no one who transgresses is spared.I found this chilling because I can actually see this happening, have seen men on TV who I can imagine loving just such a scenario.
For Jesn, it is torture, but a situation arises, and unwillingly Jean is temporarily repreived, because the men in charge want something from her.
History has proven that with the wrong people in charge, anything and everything can happen.
Women are limited to speaking only 100 words per day and “immoral” behavior results in hard labor concentration camps.
There is a clear message to receive: if you don’t speak out, someday someone will take away your voice.
There’s an evil minister who goes around punishing people but he felt hokey and his position didn’t always make sense.Overall: what probably started as a symbolic anti-Trump rant turned into surprisingly effective allegorical fiction.
I wish the author had spent more time on the final third of the book, though, because it left a lot to be desired.
Those things make Dalcher’s Vox a desirable read from the moment you hold it in your hot little hand.
For the most part, all of the deterioration of American society has already happened at the start of the book (though we do get snippy interior commentary on it from Jean), and we follow her around watching her days as she copes with it.
Christina Dalcher’s Vox ended up being a far more commercial read than I thought it would be, which isn’t a bad thing in and of itself.
The very definition of mediocre, from the storyline to the characters and beyond.
There's really nothing that stands out, at least not in a positive way.The author has somehow managed to take a unique plot line with limitless potential and turned it into a Christian and male bashing rant of epic proportions (full disclosure: I am not a Christian nor am I a man.)The plot revolves around a dystopian future where U.S. women are only allowed to speak 100 words per day or face the consequences of the Christian Reich.Dr. Jean McClellan is among these women.Jean is a perpetually indecisive victim of her own circumstances.
She hates her husband.
There's really nothing relatable or sympathetic about her character.
The stories are similar in the generalist of comparisons but Dalcher has brought the idea into this era in time to make it easier to relate to.Vox opens introducing readers to Dr. Jean McClellan who has been downgraded from her status as a leading doctor in her field of study to nothing more than a housewife cooking and cleaning and caring for her four children.
Atwood’s title left me frustrated and annoyed with every turn of the page because it felt like the shock factor of the story was supposed to entertain me enough that I wouldn’t want to know why women didn’t fight back or how it came to be at all.
Think about it...Think about words like 'spousal permission' and 'paternal consent.' Think about waking up one morning and finding you don't have a voice in anything."The thing about this book that really got me was the unfairness of it all: concentration camps for those who identify as part of the LGBT+ community; convents for women who speak out or have extra-marital affairs/pre-marital relations (note: these punishments did not extend to men); the cutting of women's placement at universities and the teaching of only basic arithmetic, christian religion (and only the fundamentalist aspect of it) and home economics for girls.
This one didn't really work for me, but I am giving it one more star than I feel to compensate for my current state of mind - I'm not really feeling into dystopia at the moment, and that isn't this book's fault.
It's interesting to me how many people are bailing or rating this low because the bad guys are Christians.
Jean too easily goes back to her work when she is needed, doesn't seem to worry at all about surveillance, and doesn't seem to worry about the power her male children have, even after her son's girlfriend gets TAKEN AWAY for having sex with him.
how dangerous it can be on new generation of girls and women..Well, I needed this story, this strong crazy serious idea and plot to be in a story that much stronger and faster...but really the plot lacked much specially in the second part.100 and more Thanks for the Author and Penguin's First to Read program for the advanced read.Mohammed ArabeyFrom 6 April 2018To 9 April 2018
I'll have to shelf this one under Abominations of Fiction.Here's the present situation in America:Liberals find Christian morality offensive and Christians find liberal immorality offensive.With the advent of Christianity and Civilization in pagan Europe, our barbarian ancestors began to treat women in a much more civilized manner.
And yes, Christianity and Civilization do go hand in hand together.For women that have been taught otherwise, I suggest reading:How the Catholic Church Built Western Civilization by Thomas E.
Woods Jr.Why not be thankful that American women are treated so much better here than in any other nation on the face of the earth?
The premise/hook is fantastic, and with the second season of The Handmaid's Tale starting at the end of this month it's going to be so easy for marketers to draw parallels to Atwood's classic feminist masterpiece.
But Vox *is not* that book.
do you SEE how EASY this could happen?
There's a lot of science/academic techno-jargon in the book that's totally unnecessary too and mires down the action and took me out of the story too many times.
The book did get me to think about how all of humanity might be improved if everyone was limited to a hundred words a day.
I received this sci-fi dystopian eARC from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
It's the last limitation that made me want to read this book.The statistic in the blurb claims that the is that the average person currently speaks 16,000 words a day.
In this book the woman can only speak 100 words a day.
I am extremely liberal and yet this book seemed to be a political soapbox for hatred of the current regime.
I feel it would have had more force if set in slightly more distant future.- the muddled message - The theme seems to be a call for women to be active in politics.
That all the men around you can speak/read/sign ALL THE WORDS they want, but you get 100 in each 24 hour span.
Just think about that for awhile.
This book felt all too real to me as a woman.
I did not want to put this book down.
Thank you to Elisha Katz from Berkley Marketing for reaching out to me, offering the book for an honest review.
You have written a very timely story, and I think it might be the prod needed to help some people make the choice to join the movement.
The story melds one of Western culture’s oldest prejudices with the future’s slickest technology: In the America she imagines, every woman can say only 100 words a day.As a premise, this is a frightening extension of Saint Paul’s prohibition against women speaking in church.
It morphed from belt to corset, covering all but the country’s limbs.”As Dalcher lays out the mechanics of the word-counter that every woman must wear on her wrist, “Vox” is grimly fascinating.
I was looking for a quick read that kept me interested and this book did just that.There are many, many reviewers who are up in arms about comparisons to the current political climate, the naming of one religion, Christianity, as the culprit in this book.
I do think she could have written the same book without singling out one particular religion, but it’s freedom of speech, right??From the blurb you know that society in the United States has gone back to the dark ages regarding women.
but Jean always was too busy studying and didn’t think anything like this could happen in the United States, right?I found the book entertaining.
I almost DNF'd it....but I felt it was important that I stuck with it until the end.Vox is set in a future America where women have lost the right to speak, to be educated, and even to write.
But, a world where women aren't allowed to read books, write down words or speak above a word limit just seemed silly to me.
But, the idea of women being forced to wear word counter bracelets and being shocked for speaking, books being locked up in cabinets so women can't read and females being restricted from most areas of the work force just seems a bit of an overkill.
I have to separate what I felt about the subject matter from how I feel about the writing/plot development/characters/etc., and that is not an easy thing to do when all I really want to do is stand on my soapbox for a few minutes!But I will say, as dystopian novels go, this one was packed full of frustrating circumstances, despair, oppression, and all the negative emotions you can imagine a dystopian novel would contain.
As we can imagine, contention in government could lead to citizens’ rights being taken away, and in Vox, author Christina Dalcher goes to the extreme with this concept and shows us how easy it is to change people’s mindset in a short time.
In this made up Handmaid’s Tale – like world, women are only allowed to speak 100 words per day.
All women have been removed from the workforce and are only allowed to take care of the home and family.
Maddening, frightening and exhilarating, this could be a fantastic movie!Book groups will enjoy rich discussion surrounding this novel’s concept.
I really liked the author’s style in this one!
IT was tightly written, fast-paced, clean in the delivery in describing pretty much a “what-if” scenario clearly based on current pollical mindsets in the US spiraling further out of control and being allowed to take more power away from marginalized groups, restrict travel, and in particular, target women by forbidding them from working and limiting their speech to 100 words per day.It’s an idea that’s been done many times before in “The Handmaid’s Tale” and “The List” among others, but the way the author so seamlessly weaves this moment in US history to tie in with the narrative makes the book feel particularly relevant, and creepy as a dystopia.
Entered on screen reader.
A highly significant and timely book exploring the question: What if women could only speak 100 words per day?SUMMARYThere’s a new President in the White House, Sam Myers was elected by the votes garnered by ultra conservative Southern Baptist Reverend Carl Corbin.
Women are no longer allowed to speak more than 100 words daily.
Jean misses reading bedtime stories to Sonia and talking to her three sons about their day.
Thanks to Netgalley, Berkley Publishing and Christine Dalcher for an advance reading copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
3 entertaining starsTrue to the form that science fiction takes, this book was entertaining and one that held my interest.
I must confess that I am not much of a science fiction novel reader, but the premise of this book was intriguing.
Dr McClellan was purported to be a brilliant scientist and yet she could not figure out how to remove the band or even stop the electrical charge from coming through?
There were other things that bothered me as well but suffice to say, I did read this with a large amount of the unbelievable.
