https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41962.Light_a_Penny_Candle
While I did enjoy Binchy's writing and her beautiful character development, the beginning of the book was far more enjoyable than the latter part which did just seem to drag on and on. I feel that this book would have served the reader a better experience with more enjoyment had it been broken down into a trilogy. More a 3.5 than a 4 but I always round up my star ratings. 😊
Ovo je prvi roman Mev Binči a ujedno i prvi koji sam pročitala... Ovom knjigom me je "kupila" i zadržala doživotno... :)
This was my first Binchy and I absolutely loved it until the last couple of chapters.I felt perhaps since this was Binchy's first published book, maybe she struggled with how to end it. The main characters seemed to be "out of character" in the last few chapters and a lot of the way it ended didn't fit with the rest of the story.
Wonderful! I laughed, I cried, and I was so sad when it ended! An amazing story of two friends who become as sisters and the lives they lead.
The characters she creates in all of her novels are both realistic and engaging and Light a Penny Candle is no exception.
It felt almost as if Binchy had recognized that she needed to end the novel at some point or else she could have gone on forever, following all of the remaining characters throughout the rest of their lives.
No, Light a Penny Candle does not provide much in the way of heavy discussion, but as far as pure entertainment, I think Binchy is miles ahead of most others.
Friends and relatives all like her.Why?I think its partly because she writes so well about the Irish.
I read this novel pretty quickly and so did my mother, who started it and left all her other books behind to focus on it.
Binchy didn’t prepare her reader for an ending that seemed rushed or contrived.Is “Light a Penny Candle” fluffy romance for women?
The novel tells us so a lot about Irish customs and ways, and it gives us a glimpse of England during WW2 .I’ll have to read more of her to see what her (many) later novels become.
Wow. This was…not what I expected from Maeve Binchy’s debut novel.
I have read and enjoyed many Maeve Binchy’s works before this (I just counted - looks like I’ve read 15!), and I enjoyed most of this one, but was slightly disappointed by the ending.
It felt like a rather more dark work than I was anticipating.
It became choppy, and was obviously intentional, in 2 - 3 sentence bursts of action at a time, before moving the spotlight on to the next character’s piece of action.I was tempted to drop my rating, but left it at 4 stars, because even though I didn’t like the ending, I suppose it was well done, and my dislike is purely personal bias.
I’m an avid reader of crime fiction, and when the story opened with a ‘flash-forward’ in a coroner’s court, I found myself expecting a murder to occur.
The main characters are loveable, especially lively red-head Aisling.
There was a large supporting cast of distinctive characters: fun-loving Harry, narcissistic Johnny, moaning Maureen.
And then, after 814 pages (view spoiler)[ a murder does occur.
It was what I’d expected in the beginning and had given up on, and when it came I found it the least believable and most unsatisfying part of the book.
Another excellent family drama from one of my favourite cosy authors. We follow two girls growing up during and in the aftermath of World War II from girls to women in both Ireland and England.This was her first novel and it's a little darker than others I've read but a very impressive first book with all her signature touches. Strongly recommended to Binchy fans.
One of my favorite books of all time.
But though the writing has energy and drive, the themes never are really given their due, the characters are introduced and barely slip out of a form character for the rest of the novel (which is meant to be 20 years of their lives), there isn't really any consequences to their actions, and I felt like the whole things was a bit shallow.
Though I totally saw Aisling and Johnny's relationship coming, I did like that she has Aisling ending the book as single, childless, but content and willing to duke it out in the tough streets on London rather than returning to her familial Irish tough.
I found this a very slow read and terribly predictable. All the characters were one-dimensional, either very good or very bad. And there wasn't a single likable male character. The ending was just ridiculous; solving problems by killing off the source of the problem. Most Maeve Binchy stories have much more interesting plots than this one. I am surprised that so many readers loved it.
To protect their 10 year old daughter Elizabeth, George White and his wife send her to Kilgarret, Ireland.
It is Aisling who teaches Elizabeth to have faith in life and convinces her that if you light a penny candle at church, your most sacred wish will come true.
Five years later, Elizabeth returns home armed with a new sense of independence and love of life.
Two women caought between the past and the future, theirs is a world swept up in change...a world where old ways no longer work and new ways demand daring...a world where in times of trouble, it is no longer enough to Light a Penny Candle.
Reading another of her novel has not ruined my expectations of finding her words as moving and her characters as lively and real as those in the first I’ve read.Really, it’s like, the people in the novel are not mere icons of fiction but they actually seem like you’re personally hearing their conversations.
It’s nice to see that these people are really trying to make something worthy out of their lives and Binchy never failed to make each of her characters have that overwhelming sense of strong and motivated personalities.
It’s like, when everything goes wrong, you still have a home to go to.
This is the first Maeve Binchy book I've read where I finished it and felt rather unsatisfied.
I have become accustomed to (and a fan of) the way she spins a tale, weaves together the details, and above all exercises the patience to do the story justice.
However, the wheels seemed to come off the story, so to speak, in the middle of the final chapter.
The accelerated pace of the latter half of Chapter 16 was bumpy and out of step from the rest of the book.
Just be aware that you may find the ending less than satisfying.
I read this book in the Christmas break of 1983 and loved the warmth that flowed from the page. IN 1994 I saw Maeve speak here in Melbourne and her warmth and interest in her fellow human is as alive and real as her characters. She believes we each have a story that we should write. Her stories of her mother and father were truly hilarious. She usually publishes a novel every two years and I have them all. I reread them when I just feel the need to retreat away with something lovely.
Hoewel dit boek wel iets anders is dan de andere boeken van Maeve Binchy die ik tot nu toe heb gelezen, heb ik er wel van genoten en vind ik het jammer dat het uit is.
Je volgt haar leven, dat begint als een jong meisje dat vanwege de Tweede Wereldoorlog naar een gezin in Ierland wordt gestuurd.
Dat is bij dit boek niet altijd het geval.
Ondanks dat vind ik dat dit je verhaal je wel meezuigt in de levens van Elizabeth en Aisling.
Als je Maeve Binchy's boeken niet kent, zou ik met een van haar latere beginnen.
This is the story of Elizabeth White and Aisling O'Connor.
Elizabeth is sent to stay with Aisling's family in Ireland during the Blitz in London.
The two of them grow to be best friends despite of, or perhaps because of the events that occur over the next two decades.
I can't really explain why I enjoy Maeve Binchy's books so much.
The writing isn't particularly profound and her plots tend to veer toward extreme soap opera-iness.
Furthermore, MB has the knack of richly portraying Ireland and her people...their speech, mannerisms, customs, humor, pathos...everything.
I adore this book. I am an avid reader and this is my no.1!! A story told over decades, pre and post world war 2. it has everything. Too much to tell here. Try it pls. I read my copy at least twice a year and am still amazed by Binchys story. I have had to replace my copy many times as have loaned it out never to have it returned! Enjoy.
It's been quite a while since I read a Maeve Binchy book. I've forgotten how she describes the beauty of Ireland. Such an engrossing read.
I read this book when I was 9 or 10, and I remember loving it.
Reading it again, as a young adult in her early 20s, was a differently rewarding experience.
This wavered a bit in Part Four, which was told at a much faster pace than the rest of the novel--a sort of highlights reel or bulleted list of events.
However, Elizabeth's actions at the end of the novel need closure.
He literally told you that he was going and then invited you along; he didn't make the plans with you.I just needed to say that.
Maeve Binchy's debut novel, and unfortunately it really shows.
She hasn't found her own voice at all, and I kept thinking I was reading a Rosamunde Pilcher novel instead.
There are exceptions of course, but as a rule people tend to be in a better place at the end of the book than they were at the beginning.
It was as if Maeve Binchy suddenly realized how many pages she'd written already, and couldn't find a proper way to end it, so she just did.It had its moments, but as a whole I wasn't terribly impressed by it.
O! Maeve Binchy...Ireland's own Jodi Picoult!If you prefer to not think too hard while reading; if you are amused by all things Irish; or if you've never experienced the Binchy formula, then you would probably enjoy any number of her books.
Binchy, like Picoult, is best enjoyed in isolation of any of her other writings.
I believe this is one of her better books, but I am probably influenced by the fact that it was the first of hers that I read.
Nothing revolutionary there, and yet it is quite charming for the better part of the book.
My opinion of this book is all over the place.
At times, when I was reading it, I thought it was so engaging and truly excellent.
However, there were also times toward then end, when I threw the book across the bed, because I was so frustrated with the plot twist.
Instead it focuses on the friendship of two girls growing up in Ireland and London and also examines their family relationships.
It made me very grateful I wasn't a woman growing up in that time period, when it was taboo to discuss so many things that needed discussing.
Sorry Binchy fans, I tried I really tired.
I didn't like the first book I read by her, but when a friend from work suggested I read "my favorite book ever", I decided to give Binchy a second shot.
Besides Light a Penny Candle had a recommendation of someone I knew.
UGH!.
I had to trudge through this book.
AllI wanted to do was slap the characters and tell them to get real.
The book drags on and on and then in the last chapter, the author jumps from one place to another trying to tie up the loose ends.
"Light a Penny Candle" was one of those novels whose ending wrecked what came before, so I liked it until the ending. I liked the characters' distinct personalities and lives, and I've always liked books that change perspective every so often. (Some parts were told from the point of view of the main character Elizabeth, and others were told from the point of view of her friend, Aisling.) I don't necessarily recommend this book, but I wouldn't discourage someone from reading it, either, although I would warn them about the ending!
This was my first Maeve Binchy novel and the story was completely lovely - until the huge plot twist in the final chapter that made it seem like an entirely different book?! It was such a strange change in tone that I can't really recommend it, even though I'll still try other titles by this author. Weird. So weird.
I found the enduring friendship in this story heart-warming. These two lived in different countries and had their own separate lives, yet when the chips were down, they were there for each other, instantly and with no questions asked. What more could one ask for?
What did I just read? This book is a whirlwind - perfect for the poolside. (Mauve Binky has done it again. <-- for Zach)
Enjoyed the first part but it went swiftly downhill. Ending was ridiculous.
