https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12112545-presidential-agent
I finished this book in tears, as Lanny walked about the Lincoln Memorial after a late night report to/meeting with FDR, reading the words of the Gettysburg Address and committing himself to whatever he might be asked to do in the conflict that is inexorably approaching.
I’m just lost in this series, unable to tear myself away for very long.
The next one, Dragon’s Harvest, I will be reading in a remarkably sturdy 1945 hard copy that I bought through amazon for about the same price as the electronic version.
Just wanted to read the real thing.
These European plutocrats are more fearful of the Reds than surrendering their freedoms to Fascism and Nazism.Lanny’s secret wife Trudi has been kidnapped by the Gestapo and the insuring efforts by Lanny to rescue her are riveting and as daring as the rescue of Alfy from Franco’s dungeon in Spain and the attempt to rescue Fredi from the Gestapo in Dragon’s Teeth.There is a conspiracy Lanny is privy to involving the “200” families of France to over throw the French government, known as the Cagoular’s or hooded men.
A Fly on the wallMr. Sinclair gives us the ultimate insider's perspective on the rise of Adi Schicklgruber and his fellow madmen. Sinclair takes his peerless journalistic skills and renders an account that is as startling in detail as it is monumental in its effect to the careful reader. He reveals the one great truth: Governments are slow to learn the sad lessons of war, and are quick to forget them. Thank you, Upton. The multitude of unknown ghosts of Trudi are surely resting in peace because of your indefatigable efforts.
Well worth looking beyond some of the flat characters—and it takes some effort to do this esp with the female ones. Great historical detail, superb pacing, and lucid descriptions, bring this period and key historical players to life and provide a social and political context that is too often overlooked. Sinclair has a superior gift in his use of facts and political and social detail and consequences to capture and sustain interest. It’s a long read but very worthwhile if you’re a 20th century history buff.
WWIII learned so many interesting facts that led up to WWII. It brought back memories of my visit to "The Eagles Nest" several years ago. Two years past I spent 23 days in Berlin which I consider an architectural marvel. It's my favorite large City in Europe.
Fiction
This, the fifth Lanny Budd novel, continues the somewhat curious mixture of adventure, history, and romance of the series.
In Presidential Agent Lanny becomes a secret agent working directly for FDR.
(Presidential agent #103, no license to kill.) At the start Lanny is also deeply concerned about the fate of his beloved Trudi, who was grabbed by the Nazis toward the end of the previous volume.
Those two elements (agent + lover in peril) promised a good action-thriller.
Unfortunately, that isn't what we got.
I found this volume a bit tedious.
The story suffered somewhat as a result.I will continue with the series.
Continuation of Lanny Budd adventure.
I read this book to find out what happened to Lanny's wife Trudi. Being the president's agent was totally irrelevant to the story and kind of got in the way. I did like the book however.
I am still in love with this series and can't wait for the next installment! Outbreak of WWII
