https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/241398.Ultramarine
Yes. Does it contain swatches of prose that hint at the glory that would be fully-realized in Volcano?
That ebbing back and forth between consciousness and blackout, snatches of photographic clarity amidst the flotsam of booze and misadventure; the circling and eventual swirling down the drain past the point of return into the maw of true, fucking profound drunkenness and its ineluctable repercussions…He nails it all, like a pigeon to a wall with a railroad spike.Chapter III is pure virtuosity (it must be said that it bears an almost eerily uncanny resemblance at times to WTV's masterful The Rainbow Stories).
The very next chapter will tear away at you with some avian imagery better read than discussed.
Lowry wasn’t just the savant of Volcano and this book is testimony to that.
A rollicking sea-journey ; makes the promise Lowry's later and alcohol-addled masterwork would make good on--namely, that he'd be incapable of writing about anyone other than himself--alcohol-addled. Tragic for him; a plus for us.
So I read ‘Through the Panama’ in Lowry’s only collection, Hear Us O Lord from Heaven Thy Dwelling Place, and was blown away.
Happily, I’d grabbed the aforementioned collection, Ultramarine, Lowry’s first novel, and Under the Volcano from my father’s Penguin paperback collection.
The edition I have, in both paperback and hardback, is the 1962 revised edition of the 1993 original – revised, obviously, not by Lowry, who died in 1957, but very much based on his part-written revisions for the novel (which he had done in order to bring it in line with a planned seven-novel sequence titled The Voyage That Never Ends (actually used for a collection of Lowry’s “fictions, poems, fragments, letters”)).
I should have known better than to pick this up, especially after the mediocre experience in Mexico.I made it through 55 repetitive pages of ship parts, clipped and interrupted salty dog jargon, and a toff pining for his virgin girlfriend, even though his balls were clearly turning ultramarine blue!Life is WAY too short to spend another minute with this one!
could somebody tell Dean that I read this please? and also that it made sense to me so it would probably be underwhelming for him.
Nowhere near as good as Under the Volcano.(Hilliot, when drunk): "I assume the guilt of a mother, or of a father, or of a heredity, imagine it completely, to be able on the one hand to give an adequate explanation of my more inexplicable actions, and on the other in order to be clothed in a dark, bloodstained dignity., Some of these points are raised, and you may have read for yourself, in my much maligned and certainly dangerous and misleading work, Hamlet.
But it is I who am the father, or who would be the father, the mother, and who postulate the responsibility for both; it is young Dana who belongs to the ranks of the blind and the dumb.
Por vezes desconcertante, outras vezes brilhante, nota-se claramente que o livro foi inicialmente escrito quando Lowry era novo, mas revisto posteriormente, juntando assim uma espontaneidade original, com alguma profundidade cuidada (bem como, infelizmente, alguma fragmentação). O livro conta a história quase autobiográfica do escritor, quando este foi marinheiro na sua juventude, sendo o tema principal em torno do seu afirmar junto da restante tripulação.
3 stars just because it lacks the dense symbolic langauge that I really enjoy from Lowry. This book is more Lowry's attempt to escape the influence of Nordahl Grieg, who he would later explicitly deal with in the lost-and-found novel In Ballast to the White Sea.To me, this is a great novel for people interested in Lowry before he really dove into Joyce and Eliot, but perhaps not one for those who haven't read any other Lowry. I believe it might be rightly classified as juvenilia.
Wanted to read early Lowry, this was his first book, mostly written when he was around 20. Lots to criticize but showed a taste of what was to come, his classic "Under The Volcano".
4.25/5
Not quite volcano.
*/*
I started reading this by accident. I forgot that I hadn't been able to finish Lowry's other book (Under the Volcano), either. His writing style is grating - watery, stream-of-consciousness prose where you can't tell what's real and what's drunken blathering. Overlapping dialogue ascribed to no one and frequent lapses into various foreign languages. Characters are boring, self-absorbed, Holden Caulfield types. maybe something for an English major to have to analyze. I don't want to.
