https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1044175.La_reina_estrangulada
Dire circumstances for a new king who also is still stinging from the recent adulterous scandal involving his wife Marguerite, his sister-in-law Blanche, and two handsome brothers.
Louis wants an annulment from Marguerite so he can marry Princess Clemence of Hungary, but the cardinals are being difficult, and no one seems to be able to come up with enough bribes to determine who will be the next Pope.
Louis is much more worried about finding a new bed warmer than he is about the laws his father passed.
Había pasado más de un año desde que leí El Rey de Hierro y temía haber olvidado grandes detalles, pero por suerte este libro está escrito de forma tal que no hace falta recordar mucha cosa del libro anterior pues varias veces se hace referencia a los eventos anteriores; incluso me atrevería a decir que se puede leer de manera independiente (aunque obviamente no lo recomiendo porque El rey de hierro está muy bueno).
Al igual que el anterior, este libro también tiene varias notas al pie de página que suponen un excelente complemento para la lectura y presentan datos muy interesantes acerca de la Edad Media; es impresionante lo mucho que investigó Druon para escribir estos libros.
4,5/5Encore une fois écouté en livre audio, j'ai adoré suivre la suite des intrigues politiques et amoureuses de ces personnages historiques !
Unlike his father, the newly crowned Louis X proves to be a very weak king and allows himself to be manipulated by his uncle, the Count of Valois, who is engaged in a power struggle with Enguerrand de Marigny, the former king's chief minister.Louis' personal life is also a disaster – his wife, Marguerite of Burgundy, has been imprisoned for adultery following the Tour de Nesle Affair (described in the previous book) and as there is currently no Pope, he is unable to obtain a divorce so that he can find a new queen.
Good sequel to the first novel. It's historical soap opera really. I do wish there were more women though. It does make me want to read more about the time period.
4,5 bueno, bueno! me gustó mas que el anterior, será que ya me familiarize con los personajes?, a conseguir el tercero!
3.5 stars. Not quite as much fun as The Iron King, but still a lot of fun.For a further review: http://susannag.booklikes.com/post/13... .
Valois sees his opportunity and is ambitious to get a crown upon his head before his days are through.Marguerite, who should be enthroned at Louis's side, continues to waste away in prison.
Her fate, however, is intertwined with that of the men who grasp at power.The series continues to follow the sub-plot of Guiccio Baglioni, a young banker who fell in love in book one with a woman whose family he was supposed to be collecting debt from.
It was not quite as fast-paced as Iron King, but kept my interest and left me wishing that I had book three, The Poisoned Crown, waiting in the wings.
J'ai eu plus de mal à me mettre à ce deuxième tome, mais Druon a bien fini par m'emporter. J'aime beaucoup cette façon de raconter l'histoire de tant de points de vue, sans jamais vraiment privilégié un personnage plus qu'un autre, en l'édifiant en héros absolu de l'oeuvre. Et pourtant, à chaque coup du sort, on a une petite pointe de pitié ou de tristesse pour celui ou celle qui voit sa vie mal tourner.
The second entry in Maurice Druon’s serie about the kings of France is just as good as the first part. For one not used to European history ,it might read like fantasy. In reality it is just power games in a time where dirty murder and dying was much more common and visible than today.
At the end it has some clarifications on the liberties the author took.George R.R. Martin has repeatedly said that as Maurice Druon has done giving historical personages many layers; the wars of the roses is only one layer of his novel, for anyone that doesn't resort to fan blogs that stupidly affirm without doing any research on who wars of the roses characters is equal to the song of ice and fire; will know that there is much more; in recently interviews he has repeated what he has said before the Television series came out -that this war was only one layer, Tudors, Plantagenets, Capaetians, Valois and the Albigensian wars (for those who don't know about heresies in France during the middle ages) are some of the major influences for his work and the characters as in Maurice Druon's novels and some Tudors and Stuarts have more in common with the Game of Thrones novels than the wars of the Roses.
En un principio creo que esta segunda parte ha sido un poco mas floja que la primera, pero la historia me gusta tanto tantísimo que he decidido darle la misma nota.
Los personajes que mas me han llamado la atención son Luis el obstinado, Roberto de Artois y Enguerrando de Marigny.
El rey me ha llamado la atención porque ha sido un fiel títere en manos del resto, no sabia ni como gobernar,creo que hasta ultima hora lo único que buscaba en su vida es seguir siendo Rey y conseguir la nulidad de su matrimonio.
(view spoiler)[ Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Sono due i punti fondanti di questo romanzo: la lotta di potere che contrappone quell'infamone di Carlo di Valois, lo zio del re (che finalmente è riuscito a raggiungere il potere tanto agognato, manipolando di fatto tutte le scelte del nipote) e sostenitore delle vecchie pratiche feudali, ed Enguerrand de Marigny, grande riformatore e fautore del successo della classe media, oltre ad essere l'unico uomo competente rimasto nel Consiglio reale (certo, nemmeno lui era uno troppo pulito, ma in questo romanzo nessuno ne esce troppo bene).
Cuando lees en 286 páginas cómo destruyen todo lo que hizo Felipe El Hermoso durante su reinado y llevan a Marigny a la horca

El rey Felipe el Hermoso ha muerto repentinamente, al parecer la maldición lo ha alcanzado.El príncipe heredero es en apariencia incapaz de estar a la altura de su padre.
Se nos pinta a Luis el Obstinado (Luis X) como un hombre mediocre, falto de inteligencia, acomplejado por un padre dominante y deshonrado por una esposa adultera.
Y para mas remate su vergüenza es pública, cuestión que lo obsesiona, ya que el rey tiene (o debería tener) otras preocupaciones de las que parece apenas enterarse ¿Qué mejor retrato de un inepto en el poder?Reseña completa en mi blog AQUÍ
Even if it's the second book of a series of six books, this book can be considered as a stand-alone book.The sequel of "Le Roi de Fer" tells the story of the successor of Philippe IV - Louis X. The plot starts with the imprisonment of Marguerite de Valois, followed by the his game of intrigue against the famous financier Marigny and the remaining feudal barons of the Order of the Templars.I read a Portuguese version of this book and the translation was of bad quality.As a Bookcrossing book, it will be released at Biblioteca Mario de Andrade.
Apart from the author's philosophical asides which are at best ironic and at worst provocative, this is an interesting account of the period after Philippe le Bel's death and the initial period of Louis X's short reign as King of France. Although not much time elapses, there is intrigue aplenty, as well as retribution and even some romance.
¡El rey ha muerto!, ¡viva el rey!El poder y el gobierno no dan espera, y las naciones están por encima de los hombres que las dirigen.
El 29 de noviembre de 1314, el rey Felipe IV el Hermoso muere, dando paso a un nuevo reinado, el de su hijo Luis X.
¿Heredaría éste la fuerza necesaria para mantenerse en el trono?, ¿Sería Luis un digno sucesor de su padre y la dinastia capeta?La incapacidad del nuevo Rey ha quedado de manifiesto, no se decide por ningún posición política, entre el bando reaccionario de su tío Carlos de Valois o las políticas progresistas de Enguerrando de Maigny, coadjutor del reino.
I liked this book and would give it 5 stars but the audiobook narration leaves something to be desired for me. I know it's a personal preference but when changing storylines, the recording doesn't even take a quick split-second break. Sometimes I got confused on who was supposed to be talking or what they were talking about. But I found the story compelling and have already gotten the next in the series ready to read!
Reyes Malditos 2Ok, nuevo rey, batalla entre dos personajes por controlar al nuevo rey. Intrigas con el tesoro de la corona, propuestas de matrimonio y elección papal, pero la pieza más importante de ese pleito de poder es la actual esposa del rey, prisionera por su infidelidad, y que tendrá un fin trágico que bien pudo ser evitadoInteresante forma de contarte la historia4 stars
3.5 stars. This is the second book of the Accursed Kings and the big spoiler is in the title. It's good. And if you're reading this, You've probably read the first book. The best character is the only "good" guy. (Good is relative in this book.)Looking forward to the next book, but I'm not in a rush to read it, ya dig?
Un second opus génial à la hauteur du premier. Je me régale à lire cette grande histoire, c'est tellement plus cool d'apprendre grâce à la littérature. Je comprends pourquoi J.R.R Martin s'est inspiré des rois Maudits pour écrire le trône de fer.
9/10

The busy red haired, heavy, bull like man is heavily against Charles of Valois and both argue throughout the scene multiple times because of the new members of the council, the treasury being empty, not having a pope, Charles's niece of Hungary bring a favorable wife for Louie and lastly, Enguerrand being advised of bribery.
Enguerrand in his fury send multiple people including his Bishop brother, Jean, who still owes him from saving him from his depts to the Templars in the last book, to spread rumours in France and Italy to create confusion and discord in order not to reelect a new pope so Charles of Valois will not be in more power and favour with the king.
Luego de leer el anterior puedes reflexionar que existieron monarquías que no fueron del todo inicuas, lo cual era una cuestión de mucha suerte. En este entiendes precisamente que lo anterior era la excepción y no la regla. Los choques de intereses y de poder son muy parecidos en esencial a cómo los vemos hoy en día.
A foreword by George R.R. Martin himself set this book up to be one of the greats of historical fiction, sire of a great tradition of complex, political novels, and the second installment of a series near-legendary for its greatness, and its scarceness outside the original French.All of those things may be true - but I myself found it thoroughly underwhelming.The melodramatic title certainly recounts one of the more dramatic events of its storyline, but for the most part this book is focussed on the minute politicking that took place at the beginning of the reign of Louis X of France.
This is the second volume in the saga of the Accursed Kings, the series that fictionalises the end of the Capetian line and the beginning of the Valois.
In the continuation his curse runs its course and the deaths he predicted begin to unroll before our eyes.
The King, Pope Clement V, and the King’s Grand Chamberlain Enguerrand de Marigny all meet their destiny as predicted by Molay.
Druon embraces the suspicion that the Queen was assassinated by her husband, in a melodramatic and intriguing mise-en-scène.And we also follow the way the King’s brother (from whom the Valois line will spring) wove another intrigue around de Marigny, his rival.
