https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16631.Steppenwolf
The book didn't change my life and was not meant to, but it gave me hope and hope is always a good thing.
The influence of Indian spirituality on this book is apparent, but Hesse chooses to dissect it using the prism of Western pessimism.
The influence of unfulfilled desires in the making of the personality and its inherent disorders and the possibility of conquering those to mould a 'new' self are also prominent themes which again run parallel to the Indian concept of rebirth.The book has layers far too many.
None of this is actually happening; it is the desperate ramblings of a mind trying to heal itself in a world where it can find no sense of belonging or purpose.
They take the images outside of them for reality and never allow the world within to assert itself.” He believes himself to be half man and half wolf.
It is easy to become lost in life, and it is easy to feel alone in a world that you don’t relate to.
I don’t think we can actually say for sure, but one thing remains absolutely certain:  Steppenwolf is a life lesson for those who do not want to receive the same fate.
Hesse’s illustration of isolation and being misunderstood spoke to me as a youth, as I imagine it has for many young people.Hesse said, “Of all my books Steppenwolf is the one that was more often and more violently misunderstood than any other”.
What Hesse describes, and his use of the lone wolf of the steppe as a symbol is brilliant, is about a time when an individual finds himself alone and in transition – as in a mature man who approaches old age, or as a young person leaving behind the securities of childhood for the uncertainties of adult life.Similar to Hesse’s earlier novel Siddhartha (1922) in Steppenwolf (1927) the protagonist experiences a dynamic journey through self-discovery and spiritual exploration.
This novel:1.
Initially reminded me very much of my own mental imbalances.2.
Started to make me feel like I'd been had, and that it was, in fact, just pretentious, overly self-aware "me me me" wackoff shite.3.
Redeemed itself (AND THE NARRATOR!) in the end with its exploration of drug-induced Jungian dreamscapes and subconscious mental states.4.
Successfully summoned that strange emotion that I like to call "happysad." 5.
Did not change my life forever, but did act like aloe on a sunburn for my general mood and mindset at the time that I was reading it.6.
A midpoint between birth and death where man is trapped alone.
Unable to exist in the hot or cold of the absolutes he tries to find his way between the extremes in the comfortable center.
Fearing life and death, he just |exists| ...
Just like it is better to save King Lear for late(r) in one's life, it is better to save Steppenwolf for those crisis years of the midlife.Hesse's novels seem to flirt between the edge of memoir, scripture, prose poem and Eastern philosophy tract.

What?What the hell did I just read?
First third, BRILLIANT -- one of the most interesting bits of philosophical fiction I've ever read.
Seriously.
I was completely enthralled.
Second third -- hard to believe that two people would ever actually have conversations such as these, but still engaging.
I don't know if I liked it or I hated it.
So -- uh -- while I try to disentangle my axons -- I'll leave you with a song: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EEEzbF...****The more I allow this to sink in, the more I like it.
I think I need to consider seriously revising my review.
Hermann Hesse's novel Steppenwolf is a work of a completely different cast; a reader might find the story gripping, even riveting, but for much different reasons, for the action takes place not in a major city or obscure outpost but primarily in the mind.Our first introduction to main character Harry Haller is through the eyes of the thirty-something middle-class nephew of Haller's landlady.
Harry's identity and view of reality are challenged by a series of happenings, most notably meeting the beautiful young Hermine, who can be considered in a number of ways: as Harry's double, his doppelgänger; as a reflection of Harry's inner, spiritual self; or as a Jungian archetypal, female part of his psyche - his `anima.'Hesse wrote Steppenwolf fresh from his own Jungian psychoanalytic experience.
However, in Steppenwolf, the depths of our protagonist’s (Harry’s) despair separates him from other of Hesse’s protagonists and from humanity.
His life isn’t confirmed as valid or authentic.
Harry doesn’t see himself as fully human.
Instead, he sees himself as half-human and half-wolf (Steppenwolf).
In order to make this journey to a more fulfilling life, however, Harry must be willing to sacrifice the way he’d previously seen himself and engage with life in a way he’d never done.
Harry’s wild and interesting journey of self-discovery is tied to Hermine.
As he regains a passion for life, she shows him that there is always hope.
684. Der Steppenwolf = Steppenwolf, Herman HesseOriginally published in Germany in 1927, it was first translated into English in 1929. Combining autobiographical and psychoanalytic elements, the novel was named after the German name for the steppe wolf. The story in large part reflects a profound crisis in Hesse's spiritual world during the 1920s while memorably portraying the protagonist's split between his humanity and his wolf-like aggression and homelessness.عنوانها: گرگ بیابان؛ گرگ بیابان -
نقل از متنیکی بود، یکی نبود، مردی بود به نام هاری، ملقب به گرگ بیابان، روی دو پا راه میرفت، لباس میپوشید و انسان بود، اما با این اوصاف در واقع یک گرگ بیابان بود.
آن چه را فقط او یاد نگرفته بود، این بود که: رضایت خاطر را در وجود خویش و زندگی خویش جستجو نماید.
Likely the dumbest Important Book that I've read.Yeah, it's cool that the narrator thinks he's a werewolf, but is really just a recluse pseudo-academic--and then reads a manuscript that describes fake werewolves and outs them as poseurs.
It's a hipster manifesto, FFS.Recommended for fake werewolves, bourgeois poseurs, and improbably named courtesans.
Συγκλονιστικό έργο. Βαθιά φιλοσοφικό και ψυχολογικό. Σε πολλά του σημεία είδα τον εαυτό μου. Δεν ξέρω γιατί αλλά μου θύμισε πολύ έντονα την πρώτη φορά που διάβασα Καμύ και συγκεκριμένα την πτώση.Δεν έχω να γράψω κάτι, παρά να σας παραπέμψω στην κριτική της Ειρήνης που τα είπε εξαιρετικά, και εξαιτίας της διάβασα αυτό το βιβλίο και την ευχαριστώhttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
But this mold, too, was broken and lost at one blow all its exalted and noble intent."It's within this context that Harry finds and reads the treatise:"I read the Steppenwolf treatise through again many times, now submitting gratefully to an invisible magician because of his wise conduct of my destiny, now with scorn and contempt for its futility, and the little understanding it showed of my actual disposition and predicament."Corresponding Through the Looking GlassHarry's mind inevitably returns to the Magic Theatre:"I understood the invitation to madness and the jettison of reason and the escape from the clogs of convention in surrender to the unbridled surge of spirit and fantasy."In his quest to find the next show, he is advised to go to a club called the Black Eagle.

Thirty years on, having been through the process of disenchantment called life, and survived the tragic ends (de facto and de jure) of each chapter of my personal myth--the perfect job, a huge house, insane wealth, and adoration of both my looks and smarts--I find this novel profound.Hermann Hesse wrote this in his late 40s and I can see parts of myself--now and in my recent past--in his fictional alter ego, Harry Haller, a self-isolated intellectual who thinks of himself as a steppenwolf (or a wolf from the steppes), experiencing an ongoing existential crisis, bouts of acute loneliness, fleeting thoughts of death, and a continuing coming to terms with a bourgeois society which he hates yet needs.
Who among us hasn't been at a party and thought "Man, I could be reading right now."Haller's life starts spinning out of control when a strange man gives him a book entitled The Treatise of the Steppenwolf, in which he is mentioned by name.
Hesse throws a lot of big ideas around, like don't be afraid of life, don't let time get away from you, etc.
I thought it was powerful and full of lots of interesting ideas but I'm not sure I actually liked it.That's about all I have at the moment.
Η μοναξιά είναι ανεξαρτησία σύμφωνα με τον Έσσε αλλά ας μην ξεχνάμε και τον Φρόυντ ο οποίος πίστευε ο πολιτισμός είναι η πηγή της δυστυχίας για τους ανθρώπους....Ο Έσσε λοιπόν μας δίνει ένα ψυχογραφικό μυθιστόρημα το οποίο εμβαθύνει στα πιο σκοτεινά μονοπάτια της ανθρώπινης ψυχής.
Έχει όμως το κουράγιο; Μπορεί να απαλλάξει τον εαυτό του από όλα αυτά που τον βασανίζουν; Είναι άραγε σαν έναν θρησκόληπτο, ο οποίος όμως αναζητά τον θάνατο για εντελώς διαφορετικούς λόγους χωρίς όμως αυτό να αλλάζει το αποτέλεσμα;;;Κάποια στιγμή στην ζωή του εμφανίζεται μια γυναίκα...
Τι είναι όμως αυτό που πραγματικά τους δένει; Για να ζήσει κανείς έντονα πρέπει να σκοτώσει το εγώ ή να κάνει χώρο στον λύκό μέσα του;;;Όμως ο πολιτισμός μας βάζει εμπόδια...
Personality should be integral, some psychoanalysts suggest.   Here we have an old, solitary and independent man ruminating upon his self, or his selves; a part human, and another one wolf-like.Is he alienated? Is it a midlife crisis? An existential one? Do those parts cooperate with each other? Or, are they set apart, conflicting? He just had a normal, gently-killing-time day. This is how the book introduces us to this character. One hot bath, some breathing exercises, some meditation,…old-book
Here we have an old, solitary and independent man ruminating upon his self, or his selves; a part human, and another one wolf-like.Is he alienated?
He’s been loving music: the piano and the violin...of Mozart and Handel’s compositions.
And yet, some integrity moments do occur.---PS A movie with the same title was made in 1974 (written and directed by Fred Haines).
A good one, especially on the role of minimalist music (for those obscure moments) and cartoon-like scenes.
And yet in his dreams: there’s killing, the wolf still shows up, ….Wagner and Mozart too.
Harry told Mozart: “that machine killed music!”.
أقرب ما تكون لقلب هيسه فقد لمحت ذلك وهو يصف الصور التي علّقها ذلك الغريب على حائطه.
لا أدري كيف شعرت بأن هذا الحائط الذي يصفه هيرمان هو حائطه الشخصي والصور حقاً صوره التي يراها بأم عينه ويسجلها بإسم ذلك الغريب ..
"الذئب".ربما لأنها كانت لغاندي وبوذا وجوته ولعلمي بأن هؤلاء بالتحديد هم من أثر على ثقافته ومسار فكره.
وتعرف أنك بمعرفتك اكتسبت شقائك.تَربط ؟!كيف ؟وتخيط ..قلبين روحينعقلينفي "جسدك"وتربض على تمزق يمشي فوق أجزائك.
ويحلل يأساً سكنها ولم يغادرها.الخوف ممن يفهم تناقضات المثقف الحساس، وهروبه الذي يلازمك كظلك ..ويشعر بانتفاضة الطفل الصغير الذي تعمّدت ردحاً بين أضلاعك وهزتك هزاً عنيفاً أقصاك عن هذا العالم.حقاً ....من أنت ؟!أي المرايا تعكس حقيقتك ..
Solitude is independence.
It had been my wish and with the years I had attained it.
Oh, cold enough!
Oh, cold enough!
But it was also still, wonderfully still and vast like the cold stillness of space in which the stars revolve.
I wrote a review a couple of weeks ago and I am still not sure about sharing it.
It is too personal.
This book is so close to my heart and my first review reflects that; a little too much.
I mean, I didn't know what to expect and it blew me away.
It is a fascinating work ab
Never had the clinging to mere life seemed so grievous as now....More and more plainly, with a wildly beating heart, I felt the dread of all dreads, the fear of death.
Although I saw no other way out, although nausea, agony and despair threatened to engulf me; although life had no allurement and nothing to give me either of joy or hope, I shuddered all the same with an unspeakable horror of a gaping wound in a condemned man's flesh.Dec 30, 13* Also on my blog.
I was truly changed after I read this and I can't really say that for the majority of the books I've read.One thing I think Hesse was obsessed with a little is the duality of life-the light and the dark side.
Steppenwolf takes you to some dark carnival like dreams and forces you to see that life is incredibly complex.
Someone like Hesse cannot live a simple life.
Though I haven't yet read everything that Hesse has written, I'm pretty sure that nowhere has he developed this theme better than in Steppenwolf.
In my late teens all the Christians I knew including me were reading Zen Buddhism, and Hesse helped us bridge the strict Calvinism we wanted to be free from and the East we found more attractive, less restrictive.Harry Haller, writer and reader of many books, an intellectual, is contemplating suicide on his 50th birthday.
There’s almost no dialogue in this book, but for certain, women mostly play a role; they don’t talk much, let’s just say.Steppenwolf’s “Magic Carpet Ride”:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HPE9a...Steppenwolf visits a Magic Theater, which in the sixties might have been seen as a place for psychedelic experimentation because it is there that Harry experiences dreams and nightmares.
With this Novalis quote, let's start our journey through the busy mind of this peculiar character: a 50 year old gentleman who rents a room in a bourgeois household in a little German town, sometime between two apocalyptic world wars.
Herr Haller starts with a little jazz, a bit of opium, some dancing lessons, some bed sports and with a much needed touch from another human being: I found jazz repellent, but it was ten times better than contemporary academic music.
Problema care se ridică (și care se poate pune pe seama unei nevroze dată de singurătate, căci da, uitasem să spun că figura asta era "cel mai singur om de pe pământ") e aceea că întâmplarea face ca nu numai numele său să fie menționat acolo, ci și faptele și -mai grav!- gândurile, care nu sunt altceva decât niște electroni care plutesc în jurul nucleului: SINUCIDEREA!
In this version of the game, pretty much everyone has a role (unlike the original where the majority of Villagers would have no special powers), and...during the Night phase, your card might be switched with someone else's, so you might even become the Werewolf without knowing it!
Review to come...some time in the future.Most of the way through this book, I was thinking my rating would be 4-star, although I couldn't put my finger on why - much of the story (especially concerning the protagonist, Harry Haller) is something I can relate to strongly.
But the later sections corrected some of these faults, and made the book interesting and worth reading overall.My main problem with the early parts of Steppenwolf is that the novel is constantly tells us how fine a soul Harry Haller has: how intelligent he is, how spiritually enlightened, how artistically refined, how little he can tolerate the world of power and money and order and easy pleasures, or understand the lives of ordinary people, and how much he suffers.
For the sake of argument, I am going to singularize the pack of wolves to a single, certain wolf - STEPPENWOLF.
Failing to find the reason for living among the sheep, the wolf goes away from the bourgeois existence of the sheep in search of a new meaning for the life which has become meaningless.
Isn’t wolf the reason why the sheep stick together?
Howling “Pass me the razor!”, he continues to prowl along the dark path to ever-elusive eternity, hoping to find a cure for his moral sufferings.What happens to the Steppenwolf?-----------------------------------------------************** For Mad people only **************This is one story, often misinterpreted, as I was warned before reading, in which you have to stick to the wolf instead of the sheep and see through his eyes.
Η γραφή είναι εξαιρετική,ειδικά στο ξεκίνημα και στο τελείωμα του βιβλίου!Η αλήθεια είναι ότι στην αρχή ενθουσιάστηκα,τόσο με τη γλώσσα,όσο και με την υπόθεση και τις σκέψεις,αλλά από ένα σημείο και μετά ένιωσα ότι έπεσαν πολύ οι ρυθμοί κι ότι ψιλοκουράστηκα/ψιλοβαρέθηκα-μέχρι που διάβαζα έναν απίστευτο διάλογο,ή μια παράγραφο,ή μια πρόταση που μου έφερνε ξανά ενθουσιασμό!Τώρα που ολοκλήρωσα το βιβλίο μπορώ να εκτιμήσω τα πιο "αργά" κομμάτια,άλλωστε δεν πρόκειται για βιβλίο δράσης.Προσωπικά,όσο τραβηγμένο κι αν ακούγεται,θα το έβαζα στην κατηγορία "αυτο-βελτίωσης",αφού στα λάθη που πέφτει ο Χάρυ πέφτουμε όλοι μας και σε όλους μας απευθύνονται όσοι του λένε "Μην παίρνεις τον εαυτό σου στα σοβαρά!".
Ο Χάρυ ή λύκος της στέπας, επιλέγει τον δεύτερο τρόπο ζωής, τον πνευματικό, αλλά μέσα του οι δυο διαφορετικές του φύσεις, ανθρώπου και λύκου, πνεύματος και σάρκας, ή και πολλές άλλες ακόμη, αφού μέσα στον καθένα μας ενυπάρχουν πολλαπλοί εαυτοί, βρίσκονται σε συνεχή διαμάχη.
Η Ερμίν προσπαθεί να τον φέρει ξανά πίσω στη ζωή, προσπαθεί και καταφέρνει, ως ένα σημείο, να τον κάνει να γεύεται τις απλές χαρές της ζωής αλλά και πάλι ο ίδιος ξέρει ότι η μάχη μεταξύ λύκου και ανθρώπου μέσα του, δεν έχει τελειώσει.
_Steppenwolf_This is a great book.
It is philosophical and spiritual and deep and it demands your attention while reading it.
It is the kind of book that i would love and cherish and adore.
But i could not connect with it.
It seemed distant and i felt frustrated most of the time.
I didn't have problems with it, it's just, I couldn't feel along with it.
And on top of that, by the times i thought me and book started to communicate it started slipping away again.
I will be reading Hesse at some point again and then i will decide whether I like him or not.
بالاخره تموم شد. برای خوندن این کتاب باید حوصله ی زیادی داشته باشید .قسمت اول کتاب فوق العاده خسته کننده و کشدار بود اما رفته رفته بهتر شد و در قسمت پایانی به اوج خودش رسیدبه قول "هسه" افراد کمی قادر به ارتباط برقرار کردن با این کتاب ، درک داستان و لذت بردن از اون هستن ... به همین خاطر این کتاب رو به هرکسی توصیه نمیکنم.خود من چیز زیادی از کتاب دستگیرم نشد و نتونستم اون جوری که انتظارش رو داشتم از داستان لذت ببرم
It was my third novel by Hesse and for me personally, Steppenwolf and its theme of an isolated intellectual/misantropist didn't move me greatly, perhaps because I felt like I had heard it all before.
It is entirely possible that this book is quite an accomplished work of literature, but I failed to connect to it on a deeper level because I felt like I was hearing a story I had already heard before.
More precisely, I feel like I have sang enough praised to Hesse in my reviews of the above mentioned two novels ( https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5...
دوستانِ گرانقدر، بدونِ تردید خواندنِ این کتاب میتواند کاری با ذهنِ شما انجام دهد که ساعت ها بر روی جملات و موضوع داستان و حتی استعاره های به کار رفته بیاندیشید... <هرمان هسه> با خلاقیت و هنرمندی بسیار زیاد، این داستان را به نوعی نوشته است که شما نمی دانید آیا عناصر و شخصیت های داستان، خیالی هستند و یا واقعی.. آیا هسه آنها را ساخته است و یا شخصیتِ اصلی داستان آنها را در نوشته ها و خاطراتش جای داده است.... درکل کتابی چالش برانگیز است که جملات فلسفی و موضوعاتی روانشناسانه در دلِ خود جای داده
درکل کتابی چالش برانگیز است که جملات فلسفی و موضوعاتی روانشناسانه در دلِ خود جای داده است و هر خواننده ای میتواند به نوعی این داستان را نقد و تحلیل کند--------------------------------------------‎شخصیت اصلی داستان <هاری هالر> نام دارد که از او با عنوانِ "گرگ بیابان" در کتاب یاد شده است....
او توسطِ هرمینه با دختری زیبا به نامِ <ماریا> و مردی زیبارو و نوازنده به نامِ <پابلو> آشنا شده و با هر کدام گفت و شنودهای متفاوتی دارد و البته عاشقِ ماریا نیز میشود--------------------------------------------‎عزیزانم، ما در داستان هرزگاهی هاری را با عنوانِ گرگ بیابان میشناسیم..
The magic theatre to my mind stood in relation to the yoga vision of the "Indian Story" of Glass bead Game except with more drugs, alcohol, and dancing.I noted with interest that although Harry had his breathing and thought exercises these were not enough to save him from himself without a philosophy of The unbearable Lightness of being.I was having a shower the other day and I had the radio on for the sake of decency (view spoiler)[ one doesn't want to be entirely naked after all (hide spoiler)], Marion Keyes was on Desert Island Discs (view spoiler)[ which is what you get if you have a shower too late in the day, mind you a little earlier and it would have been the Archers (hide spoiler)] and she was taking about her earlier career as an alcoholic, I thought to myself that that could have been my life, if I had had the work-ethic and determination to see it through, a certain degree of sloth preserves one from all kinds of professional difficulties it seems.
Ugh, will Goodreads ever add the half star rating?
“You are willing to die, you coward, but not to live.”  It's a good book, but I don't think it can have the same influence as it have had 50 years ago.
Basically, this book is about feeling utterly alone and trapped in life one is not satisfied with.
It all ends with a ridiculous twist.Harry thinks his soul consists of two personalities - one is human and the other is an untamed wolf.
Harry is unable to enjoy life because he's too busy monitoring others.
With her assistance, Harry tries to learn to coexist with his multiple personalities, but in the end, he goes nuts.
It's not until Harry enters a dance hall around page 95 that we meet Hermine, who becomes a matriarchal-figure for him; Maria, who becomes his lover; and Pablo, the impresario who leads the band and become's Harry's drug supplier.
The culmination of the book is a great ball where Harry dances until dawn and goes to the subsequent psychedelic drug fest known as The Magic Theater--For Madmen Only.
There is liberal guiltless consumption of street drugs, mind-blowing sex (straight), cross dressing, and passages in the so-called Magic Theater where Harry is clearly tripping.
Heute bin ich so alt wie Hesse als er das Buch schrieb und damit auch so alt wie Harry Haller, der Steppenwolf.
Interessant, wie man im Alter das Buch mit anderen Augen liest, aber auch verständlich, denn als junger Mensch muss man noch nicht in so viele Rollen schlüpfen.
Auch das war mir als junger Leser fremd, denn trotz aller Rebellion, wusste ich schon, wie man lacht und sich freut.
Ich wurde während des Lesens gefragt, ob man den STEPPENWOLF im Alter nochmal lesen sollte, denn es wäre doch eigentlich ein Buch für die Jugend.
خاطرۀ خواندن «گرگ بیابان» از وقتی که خواندمش با من است. اوایل سالهای دانشجویی با دوستانی میرفتیم دفتر خشایار دیهیمی. گپ میزدیم و حرفهاش از اوضاع سیاسی و اجتماعی رو میشنیدیم و یاد میگرفتیم. هر بار هم چند کتابی رو توصیه میکرد بخوانیم. کتابهای پیشنهادیاش اغلب رمان بود و «گرگ بیابان» از اصلیترین پیشنهادهاش بود با ترجمۀ مرحوم کیکاووس جهانداری. حالا بعد از حدود هفت هشت سالی که گذشته باید بار دیگر بخوانمش و گمانم کمکم هم لزومش رو احساس میکنم و هم میلش رو. «گرگ بیابان» رمان عمیقی است دربارۀ زندگی و وضعی
خاطرۀ خواندن «گرگ بیابان» از وقتی که خواندمش با من است.
کتاب‌های پیشنهادی‌اش اغلب رمان بود و «گرگ بیابان» از اصلی‌ترین پیشنهادهاش بود با ترجمۀ مرحوم کیکاووس جهانداری.
حالا بعد از حدود هفت هشت سالی که گذشته باید بار دیگر بخوانمش و گمانم کم‌کم هم لزومش رو احساس می‌کنم و هم میلش رو.
«گرگ بیابان» رمان عمیقی است دربارۀ زندگی و وضعیت ما در این دنیا.
تا اینکه با کسانی آشنا می‌شه که جهان را به گونۀ دیگری می‌بینند.شاید بی‌ربط باشه اما «گرگ بیابان» و «لبۀ تیغ» همیشه من رو به یاد همدیگر می‌اندازند، در حالی که ظاهراً نسبتی با هم ندارند.
Το να μαντέψει κανείς τις εξελίξεις του βιβλίου από την περίληψη ή τις πρώτες του σελίδες είναι αδύνατον.
Η τροπή της ιστορίας με ξάφνιασε και το ξάφνιασμα αυτό ήταν ευχάριστο και ενδιαφέρον.
Ο ήρωας του βιβλίου έζησε μια ζωή διχασμένος ανάμεσα στην ανθρώπινη φύση και αυτή του λύκου της Στέπας.
Κι όμως ήρθε μια στιγμή στη ζωή του που τον έφερε αντιμέτωπο με τις χιλιάδες φύσεις της ύπαρξής του.
Μπορεί όλες του οι σκηνές να μην είναι συναρπαστικές, μπορεί το τέλος να μην είναι grande αλλά τελικά η παράσταση του αρέσει.
Ίσως στο finale να ήθελα λίγο παραπάνω πάθος, που ήταν έκδηλο σε άλλες σκηνές.
4,5* και μαγεμένη
(4,5*)Θίγει περισσότερα ζητήματα απ’ όσα φαινομενικά αναφέρει, αγγίζει πιο πολλά επίπεδα απ’ όσα αρχικά αντιλαμβανόμαστε, δημιουργεί πιο βαθιά ερωτήματα απ’ όσα απαντάει και τελικά βρίσκεσαι και συ κάπου εκεί, να περιπλανιέσαι ανάμεσα σε κλειστές και μισάνοιχτες πόρτες, αναζητώντας τη δική σου οπτική στη θέαση του κόσμου, τα ιδανικά που διαμόρφωσες, ξέχασες και επαναπροσδιόρισες...
τα χίλια είδωλα του εαυτού σου που αντίκρισες στο σπασμένο καθρέφτη και βρίσκονται κάπου εκεί γύρω.
"Δίκιο έχεις, Λύκε της Στέπας, χίλιες φορές δίκιο, και εντούτοις πρέπει να καταστραφείς.
Γι' αυτόν τον απλό, άνετο, ελάχιστα ευχαριστημένο σημερινό κόσμο είσαι πολύ απαιτητικός και πεινασμένος, θα σε ξεράσει, δεν αντέχει τις διαστάσεις σου."
τι να πω για το βιβλιο; νομιζω πως αγγιξε καθε αναγνωστη και τον εβαλε στη διαδικασια να ψαξει για κοινα στοιχεια με τον βασικο ηρωα.
Steppenwolf is a deeply philosophical book that demands your undivided attention.
The first part of the book was the most captivating.
I enjoyed reading how conflicted Harry was since it felt as if I was reading my own thoughts.
The second part was still good, it had philosophical conversations and Harry appeared to be getting better only to lose himself again.
Although I liked most of the book, there was something that I didn't like.
Certainly I will be reading it again (what's the point in reading a book just once?)
Roman bitti! Bir kaç cümleyle anlatılamayacak, olağan üstü kurgusuyla eşsiz bir kitap okuduğum u söyleyebilirim. İnsan ruhu ve benliğini parçalara ayırarak farklı birleşimler oluşturan yazar, hayatın tüm detaylarını bir şekilde bu kitaba sığdırmış. Müzikten, edebiyata bir çok ünlü ile yolunuz kesişiyor. Bozkırkurdu, Sonsuz Ateş, Ulysses, Tehlikeli Oyunlar benzeri kafa karıştırıcı, merak uyandırıcı, sizi yeni okuma deneyimlerine sürükleyen sıradışı bir roman . Acele etmeden yavaş yavaş, tadına vararak okunmalı...#AliNamık
Αυτό που οι περισσότεροι αποκαλούν "πραγματικότητα" δεν είναι τελικά τίποτε περισσότερο από την προσωπική τους αντίληψη και μετάφραση του επιστητού.
Η κυρίαρχη αυτή ανάγνωση αποτελεί το κεντρικό πλαίσιο αναφοράς, μιας και η κοινωνική –ενίοτε αγελαία- φύση του ατόμου το ωθεί στην αγκαλιά της πλειονότητας.
Η "ωρίμανση", επομένως, αδιάλειπτα συνεπάγεται έναν σταδιακό απεγκλωβισμό από την προσωπική θέαση του κόσμου, από τον ιδιαίτερο τρόπο αντίληψης του υπάρχοντος, προκειμένου να ενταχθείς στην ολότητα.
Το τίμημα, βέβαια, είναι σχεδόν πάντοτε υψηλό: να απωλέσεις την ατομικότητά σου, ανταλλάσσοντας τον αέναο τρόμο της αβεβαιότητας με την αγλαή τρυφηλότητα της πίστης σε μια κοινή ιδέα.
Για τους "oi Polloi" δεν τίθεται καν το δίλημμα.
So I think if this book captures you in the first few pages it's for you.
Otherwise it's a 100 page slog until something, anything happens.
There were some vignettes in the last 10 pages that were especially good.
I realize that the truths this book espouses are not obvious to some people, but it was not particularly profound for me.
It was like spending an evening with an especially irritating hipster as he gradually realizes that life isn't as crap as he thought.But there is much discussion of psychology, the nature of criticism, and drug trips.
