https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23341607-the-rumor
The plot was pretty predictable and unimaginative, and it just didn't have that spark that made me want to dig in and devour the story and the characters.What it did have, which I noticed early on and then became fixated on, was an over-abundance of ridiculously-named characters.
I get really annoyed when authors use names that are difficult to spell, pronounce, or remember, as it seems like an unnecessary hardship for readers.
Maybe the author is trying to be cool by using these trendy (?) names, but it was just annoying to me.
Translation widget on the blog!!!O poveste de viața si despre viața. Ce poate face bârfa dintr-un orășel mic? Sau ce poate strica omul prin acțiunile sale. O carte frumoasa!Recenzia mea completă o găsiți aici:https://www.delicateseliterare.ro/zvo...
There never was any way to predict who would be our subject.
But if someone had told us, in the frigid, steel-skied middle of April, that most of our summer would be spent whispering about Grace and Eddie Pancik..
No way.
They were some of the loveliest people we knew.A nice light fall that read just like those weekday soap operas that I used to watch with my grandmothers.
Plot was fairly predictable, but I will say that Elin Hilderbrand does a very good job of making her characters just every day, ordinary people that manage to screw up just we would "in real life."
As the title implies, this is a novel about gossip and scandal among a tight knit group of friends and neighbors on Nantucket. For 80% of the novel, I was repulsed by the selfish, short-sighted, immature behavior of the adults, (I could excuse the bad behavior of the teens), When the proverbial shit hit the fan and the awful consequences of this behavior became apparent, the immerging of humble goodness in the main characters felt inauthentic, as if the author was grasping for an ending appropriate for the Life Time Channel.
★★★I think I can say with certainty that we all have been the topic of a rumor at some point. If not, just wait. When it happens, just remember that it will all be OK. Keep your head held high... you're obviously important enough to be talked about, right?Author Elin Hilderbrand's newest women's fiction novel: The Rumor is themed with examples of age-old gossip. In addition to watching misinformation spread like wildfire, The Rumor incorporates issues related to friendship, parenting, business,
you're obviously important enough to be talked about, right?Author Elin Hilderbrand's newest women's fiction novel: The Rumor is themed with examples of age-old gossip.
There's romance, lots of drama, some humor, and the mystery of secrets...both rumored and real.
It was my first book from this author and all the drama going on (both real and rumored) created a fast-paced feeling that kept me engaged.
There were a lot of characters and third-person perspectives to keep track of though, and I think my audiobook experience may have contributed to my difficulty following at times.
Grade: CEvery June I look forward with eager anticipation to another five-star Elin Hilderbrand Nantucket beach read.
The first Rumor is that Nantucket writer Madeline King is having an affair with her best a friend Grace's husband.
What could possibly go wrong?THE RUMOR is told in short chapters from different third person POVs, but unlike most of Hilderbrand's previous novels, none of the voices were unique or felt special.
I'd rather have waited a few months, or even another year for a novel on par with her previous books.
For another writer, THE RUMOR might be considered a career high, but for me it lacked luster and uniqueness.
Not a bad read.
Kept my attention and told an okay story Good character development but lacked the emotional depth I expect.
The beginning started off promising but kind of fizzled as it went along.
I made it to the end but somewhere in the story it went from enticing and unexpected to predictable and lackluster.
This is my second Hilderbrand book and I felt the same way about the first one.
I plan to try another of her books so will see how that goes.
Probably a good one for the beach as it's easy to put down and pick up.
Hilderbrand delivers again...
I have this 4 stars because I wanted Benton and Grace to end up together.
I didn't like Eddie and I really wanted Benton to swoop in and become the husband.
I also wanted Madeline to publish her story and go half with Grace.
Overall it was a good book!
Loved the characters minus Eddie and was happy that Allegra and Hope came together as sisters who love to read in the end.
I was happy that Madeline got her money and started a new book, and I was happy that Eddie went to jail...
The fluffiest beach read ever. Is there a template for these novels; there must be. Affairs, minor tragedies, betrayals, broken hearts, on and on. All on the mostly beautiful, playground of more wealthier people who summer on Nantucket . Amusing though the many descriptions of food and settings are reminiscent of the 1990s than present day even though this book was released this year. Disappointed in my first Elin Hildebrand novel. Too simple, obvious and predictable.I'm revising my stars from one to three. I was way too harsh.
This read like a bad over drawn soap opera.Time to turn the channel for good.
"Every life contains a novel.” This is my first book by Elin Hilderbrand. I'm not sure if it was the right one to begin with, but when my flight got canceled and I suddenly had to rent a car and drive four hours, I knew I needed an audiobook to help me stay awake.The Rumor did its job. I was entertained the whole way through. The drive was a breeze while I was picturing the beautiful Nantucket (which is on my list of places to vacation at). A small island where people love to gossip and where t
I'm not sure if it was the right one to begin with, but when my flight got canceled and I suddenly had to rent a car and drive four hours, I knew I needed an audiobook to help me stay awake.The Rumor did its job.
A small island where people love to gossip and where two couples are about to give fuel to the fire.The residents of this island have nothing better to do than to entertain themselves by whispering about their neighbors and to create drama from nothing just like Madeline, Trent King, Grace and "Fast Eddie" Pancik will discover soon.Madeline King is a writer suffering from writer's block.
Elin Hilderbrand has made a name for herself penning novels set on Martha’s Vineyard and Nantucket.
Several years ago, I read one of hers, Summerland, and, while it was scenic, it was also thought-provoking.I enjoyed The Rumor, but more for fun than thought.
Tying it all together, more as a gimmick than a consequence, are rumors.
Nantucket is, after all, an island.
Its communities are insular, and Hilderbrand, a local, knows them well.This book gives island flavor.
But The Rumor is well written.
It’s a good beach read set at the beach.
I really enjoyed this novel. Elin managed an entertaining summer read involving friendship, betrayal, and love set in Nantucket.
I really liked this one!!
It had lots of humor and small-town backstabbing and gossip, much like Liane Moriarty's novel Big Little Lies.
Set yet again in Nantucket, where everybody knows everyone, all who live there feel like they belong in anyone's personal business.
The Rumor is about friendship, love, and all of the messiness that hides beneath the surface.
It's about marriage and best friends and sisters and forbidden crushes.
It is tied all together in one big messy ribbon with the phrase ".....did you hear????"With the weather FINALLY getting better and summer right around the corner, go ahead and grab this one.
I really enjoyed this book. It shows how rumors can fly around a small community even if they might not be true. Both of these families have issues and as the story goes along, they slowly unravel. I enjoyed the different characters. There were a few I wanted to slap and a few I wanted to comfort. It was an enjoyable audiobook. Great beach read.
If you are a fan of women's fiction and love novels that are downright scandalous then this is a must read!
What happens between everyone involved in this book is quite scintillating and you aren't going to want to miss out on what happens with each person!If you are looking for the perfect summer book, Elin Hilderbrand is clearly a must have author!
I am going to be grabbing all her other books because I know she is worthy of a BIG binge read this summer!
Author: Elin HilderbrandPublished: June, 2015Format: ebook via Samsung Galaxy 4 Nook ereaderRead: June, 2015Genre: fiction, drama, chick-lit, nor a "light" read yet still a fast one.My Goodreads rating: 4.5 "whoa, that was gooood", stars.Brief remarks: I always anticipate the release of a new novel by Elin Hilderbrand.
I cannot imagine writing a book during such a trying ordeal, but I bet the escape was very much needed.All that aside, we once again return to the beautiful island and small town, Nantucket (east coast, USA).
A pretty typical beach read: Lots of people making terrible choices and everything turns out all right in the end.
Unfortunately most of them are true.The two main characters are Madeline King and Grace Pancik.
Madeline is an author with writer's block.
Grace is her best friend who is having an affair.
How do you think the block becomes unblocked?
Will the friendship survive?There are other sub-plots describing Eddie Pancik's side business and the rocky romance of Brick King and Allegra Pancik - all fodder for the rumor mill.
I listened to the audio version of this book.
Entertaining and light 'reading'.
Not every book I read has to be serious and thought provoking.3 stars
Elin Hilderbrand  returns with her annual Nantucket summer beach read  THE RUMOR - A contemporary chick-lit, with tantalizing scandals, lustful affairs, hidden secrets, financial ruin, writer’s block, desperation, greed, prostitution, town gossip, and rumors which turn this beach island upside down.
Grace his wife, who is secretly in love with her landscape architect –clueless, a dreamer romantic--- has no clue what is going on with her own household—(daughters, husband, friend), and begins an affair.Eddie owes Madeline and her husband a large sum of money from a bad real estate investment; His bill is due at the country club, and things are closing in.
this is the 3rd book I have read by this author and I haven't loved any of them?!? I think I'm done. Cringeworthy characters.....this book was just not for me!
This story had every element of the ultimate light, fun summer novel, and I really enjoyed it!Set in Nantucket, we meet a pretty likable cast of characters right off the bat: Madelyn and Trevor Luellen, as well as their son, Brick; Grace and Eddie Pancik, and their twin girls, Allegra and Hope.
These two families are close-knit, and Grace and Madelyn are best friends.
You're listening to the juicy gossip about some of the island's most well-known and loved residents, and you're eating up every detail.
It's the perfect escape read.
Another Hilderbrand novel perfect for packing in a beach tote. The author's descriptions of the restaurants, houses, and beaches of Nantucket make me want to jet across the country to spend a few weeks vacationing on the island. Told from multiple viewpoints (including the island itself), this compelling story had me racing through the pages.As always, perfect for those who like novels filled with women and their relationships with friends and family such as Nancy Thayer, Mary Alice Monroe, and Dorothea Benton Frank.
(Please note: a two-star rating does not mean this is a bad book. In the Goodreads rating system a two-star rating means that "it was okay" and that is my intention in using it.)
The Rumor by Elin Hilderbrand was ok. I love the island of Nantucket as a setting but I really disliked the plot. It was as if I was reading a memoir of someone's high school years. Cheating, rumors, drinking, etc. I really like the author but this was just not for me.Go Cards! L1C4!!
The Rumor is a compulsively readable novel that of course takes place on Nantucket.
Grace is married to Fast Eddie, a successful real estate broker on the island.
Grace's main goal for the summer is to have her beautiful gardens featured in the Boston Globe Sunday section.
Maggie, Grace's best friend, is a happily married mother of Brick, the high school quarterback.
Financial troubles, affairs or supposed affairs, teenage angst and shady deals kick the rumor mill on the island in high gear.
Hilderbrand is a master of the summer novel and The Rumor is the ideal beach book for this summer!
2.5 stars for being very readable chick lit with very little substance.
When I think of a Hilderbrand book I think classic chick lit - fluffy, predictable - perfect beach read material.
Told from multiple POV's in short chapters, and again set in Nantucket we follow the stories of Grace and Madeline and their families.
The Nantucket setting works well here - small island, plenty of money and plenty of gossip, which is primarily the focus of the story through the various characters (many of which have absolutely outrageous names....Brick?
I really enjoyed this book.
About gossip and rumors and small minds in an even smaller community.
Grace raises chickens, of all things.
Madeleine is a writer.
Their friendship is tried and tested, and nearly ruined.
I have a love / hate thing for Hilderbrand at times.
I love her characters, love the stories, watching them unfold.
Her endings, though, have often left me cold.
Too easy, too predictable, too pat.
This book, was different.
This was an easy read, I guess you could call it a good summer book.
Very well told and recommended to lovers of beachy books and chick lit.
Hilderbrand's characters are spot on!Love how Hilderbrand nailed the true & ridiculous way rumors start and take a life of their own. I love her books and how she makes her characters just like one of my own friends. Love, love this book! I just wished I hadn't read so fast, I didn't want it to end.
I really did like the theme of this book though--Rumors!!
It did a great job of showing how they spread, how fast they can spread, AND how quickly they can turn incorrect & hurtful--esp.
Additionally, there was a lot of assuming involved too which quickly brought to my mind that saying "If you assume, you make an "ass" of "U" & "Me!" So, in those respects, since most of us, esp.
