https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/521648.The_Arms_of_Krupp
The remainder of the book is a piece of incompetent business journalism which describes how the Krupps lost control of their firm due to a combination of overly aggressive expansion and bad financial management.
Despite the book's glaring faults and absurd length, I am giving it four stars because ultimately I agree with most of Manchester's opinions and feel that the story needed to be told.The thing that irritates me most about the book is the way in which the historian Manchester relates the story of the financial crisis that forced the Krupps to turn their firm into a public joint-stock company thus causing them to lose control of the enterprise.
The Arms of Krupp 1587-1968 is a book looking at the growth and eventual dominance of the Krupp family in the German armaments industry.
He disrupted the established bronze cannon in the Prussian military and served them Krupp steel, used to dominate both the Hapsburgs and France and the crucible arms of German unification.The rise of the Krupp's is closely tied into the rise of Germany.
However, the information offered on the Krupp family and their ties to the fortunes and failures of the German state is fascinating and interesting.

With the narrative of Alfried Krupp's leadership during the war years, Manchester builds on that framework, detailing the firm's use of slave labor, and its plundering of occupied countries.
Kirkus' review (by Alistair Horne, no less), seemed especially harsh--compared to popular history accounts that I've read which were published in the last 10 years or so, Manchester's Krupp account seems positively restrained, elevated.
Still, bamboozled or not, I found THE ARMS OF KRUPP's 800 pages a relative breeze to read through, and his insights compelling, something that would not have happened had it been a pedantic, leaden, caricature-ridden account.
And his son, called Arndt just as had been the first Krupp, renounced his inheritance without reluctance—and so the firm passed, due to insolvency, out of family hands in 1967, just before Alfried’s death.The first Friedrich set the tone for the family’s 150 years of effort, focusing on cast steel of the highest quality.
(It was destroyed in World War II, but was rebuilt and stands today.) But his son, Alfred, an eccentric, monomaniacal genius, was the real making of the family.Alfred’s nickname, the “Cannon King,” gives away what he was most famous for.
I bought this book in a used book store in the late 80ies on the strong recommendation of a friend who was many years my senior, and had served in the UK during the Second World War. It was an incredible eye opener, and caused me to re-evaluate pretty much everything I'd learned in my history classes about the military events of last three centuries.
If you have any doubts that wars are caused by greed, you must read this book.
If you have any doubts about the ability of corporations to control world events, you must read this book.
William Manchester provided crucial details I needed in understanding the personality of my great-great-grandfather, Alfred Krupp (1812-1887) and how he banished and disinherited his own daughter, Engelbertha. While acknowledging Manchester's historical flaws, excessive insults and sarcasm, the book and his propensity for disliking Germans of that time, he did the research necessary for me to complete my book, "The Cannon King's Daughter: Banished from a dynasty, the true, untold story of Engelbertha Krupp." Manchester unwittingly helped uncover the first unrecorded banishment from within the Krupp family.
A superb, readable account of this masterful company that not only provided killing machines to the Germans over a century, it also sold to pretty much anyone else, and then used slave labour to feed the Reich. An appalling story, brilliantly told. Pretty much impossible to put down, as I learned to my cost.
This book, in my opinion, is yet another portrait of different topic; one that is filled with science, business, and research; and yet, one that is very dark, disturbing, and filled with extreme sadness – the message conveyed in this book is the greater link of the company that otherwise would have been lost had Manchester merely focused on the Second World War. Most Americans would become familiar with the name “Krupp” both during and after the Second World War. This book is not just about the Second World War however, this book is about the long standing history of the Krupp, A.G. and later the Fried.
Manchester’s book is meticulously researched, showing both the eccentric, tormented personalities, Krupp and otherwise, who ran the firm throughout its long history (the ambitious and delusional Alfred, tragic homosexual Fritz, stern nationalist Gustav, “cannon queen” Bertha and amoral fanatic Alfried) and how deeply ingrained its ethic of piratical capitalism became, to the point where it sold weapons to all countries (including enemies of the Reich), encouraged Wilhelmine Germany’s expansionism and bankrolled Hitler’s rise to power, and made liberal use of slave labor during WWII.
Very interesting and detailed narrative history of one of the world's (in)famous arms manufacturers.
One sees the beginnings of the military-industrial complex which so dominates the story of recent history and crushes all in its wake.
Manchester also has a gift for exploring and describing the characters of each of the dictators of the company, with their neuroses, charms, and faults portrayed vividly.It does run a tad long (which is not a fault to me), but it does get a bit repetitive near the end, and lacks some of the finer engineering points of detail.
But this is still a rich narrative history, and very much worth your time if you're interested.
Great report on a piece of history! Germans: some crazy, some brilliant, some both.
Monumental but mumbled. There are at least three books merged into one slightly messy tome here. The basic story of the Krupp-dynasty and their role in German history. Krupp, the Nazi supporter and exploiter and exterminator of slavelabour. Alfried, the last Krupp and his tragedy . Having them intertwined tends to defocus and create an uneven and obviously biased account. Perhaps a rewrite at 50 years of distance would be beneficial?Still it is worth the the arduous slog through the many pages and fills an important facet of Germn history.
This is a history of the Krupp family and the Krupp manufacturing company.
They are primarily known for manufacturing weapons for Germany in World War II, but also armed virtually every nation in the years preceding World War I and prior.
I realize that the Krupp family is German, and most of the book takes place in Germany, but a good quarter of the book is in German.
Probably the most shocking was the later WW II years when the family used Jewish and other prisoners as forced labor.
I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone but true diehards of WW I and WW II history from the German perspective,
A fascinating piece of industrial, military and German history.
There's a lot more to steel than I knew before I read this.
There is also a lot of interesting complexity to the relationship between military institutions and technological progress.
It's easy to forget that France was once the land warfare superpower of the world who the rest of the developed world had to combine to beat in 1815.And Manchester's writing manages to weave what we know, the source of it, and why it matters into a coherent whole in a way few other authors can.
I will eventually read everything by Manchester
On sheer size alone respect must be paid to this history of one the longest lasting private companies in the world.
Manchester produced a monumental work detailing the high points of over three hundred years of arms and material production.
As a readable work it is a little dry in spots unless you have a real love of business proceedings.
For me he loses his linear progression in the last third of the book, and the story becomes a constant retelling of the same stories surrounding the Nazi regime.
While central to the late history of the concern I think it became this huge, circular, carping point.Quite a read.
One of my favorite books.
Contrary to many other reviewers, I like the fact that Manchester has a point of view about figures like the Krupp family.
The book is endlessly fascinating and provides a unique perspective of the last 3 centuries of Germany's development as a nation and an industrial power.
As a business owner, I was especially struck but what I consider to be the abuse of power by the Krupp dynasty, specifically the WWII generation.
The use of slave labor is always wrong and is especially loathsome when used by a corporation.
Krupp should have been broken up after the war.
I liked this book so much I had to read it again 10 years later. It clearly shows how military industry can influence government. We Americans have the same problem in this country, as was shown during the Vietnam war and again with the Iraq war. Billions of dollars go to industry while the common man dies and pays his taxes. If you liked this book you may also want to read THE COLDEST WINTER,
This is the best historical account of a dynamic and fascinating dynasty that I've ever read. Don't let it's length scare you. It's very readable, powerful and insightful. I didn't want to put it down! I've recommended it often to the delight of others and it's on my re-read list! It deserves 6 stars.⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
This explains how Germany became such an aggressive state in the first place, and how they were able to rearm between the world wars. It follows one family's dynasty as the chief arms manufacturer and industrialist of the country for over 300 years. Amazingly detailed and researched. Can be dense reading, and at 1,000+ pages, requires a bit of investment.
I think of this book as a testimony to Manchester's excellent writing style. Why else whould I have waded thru almost a thousand pages on one German family dynasty. I read this book sometime in the 1980s.
This history of the Krupp family and their enterprises appears to be exhaustive, too exhaustive. I found myself getting bored with the thing. As is said, a capitalist would manufacture and sell the ropes used to hang capitalists if there was a margin in it.
You'd think the subject matter would be very dull. But Manchester really brought the family's history to life. And the effects of running an important war-related business under hitler were fascinating.
It's quite informative about the origins of the Krupp family and their firm, and sometimes entertaining to read for the sheer intensity of Manchester's lingering anti-Germanism--it suggests how much more raw the wounds of the Nazi era could be in the 60s.
Manchester does a great job of detailing the deep connection of Krupp with the Nazi state, and particularly the firm's brutal exploitation of slave laborers during the war.
In the end though, I decided I just didn't care to keep plugging away into the 1950s and beyond--I know how it ends, basically (the Cold War leading to a quite premature end to de-Nazification, etc.
A wonderfully detailed book, not merely about the Krupp dynasty, but about internal German society from the mid 1800's. In the end, this becomes the story of a family's obsessions. Sadly, this is not fiction. This family repeatedly sold its soul for wealth and power, and no compromise was ever too awkward or bizarre. The far larger story here is about human nature and the siren song of wealth as it inexorably enslaves an entire family over generations. Sobering and tragic.
Perhaps a bit totemic and overly dense at times, Manchester's examination of this endlessly powerful German family confirms Tolstoy's quote about kings being the slaves of history before all else. Solid research. Insightful, if more than a bit episodic and hackneyed....
Long, detailed and fascinating. This is worth a read if you love history and need to understand how the arms industry was built in Germany. Therefore learning about the motivations and ambitions of the Krupp family and their impact on the world.
Lots of good info, but a tough read. Many quotes in German or French or whatever, but sometimes not translated.
Extremely well written and researched. Excellent portrayal of one of the most influential families in the history of the world.
WHat a great read about a history I knew nothing about before reading this book. Manchester does a great job covering the history in an interesting way
