https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17455585-white-hot-kiss
"Not everyone is created equal.”I pursed my lips. “I don’t think I’m special.”Roth looked at me again. “But you are. You’re a half demon that is also half Warden." This is standard Armentrout. Fans of her books will love it, people who wants something a little less...formulaic, like me, will be disappointed. I keep reading her books, hoping that something will change for the better. So far, nothing had.This book is about gargoyles and demons. But don't get the wrong impression. It's less this:A
The setting is a predictable, light, traditional Urban Fantasy with characters we don't see too often---gargoyes (but the book still needs more garrgoyles and less hot-men-outside-of-stone-form)The Summary: Gargoyles exist.
Special without the ugly side effects of being a gargoyle-like Guardian.Layla is an orphan (oh hello there, trope).
Sexy Demon Roth starts showing up everyfuckingwhere Layla goes.
There is no room in this book for a positive female figure besides Layla.The Setting: It's your traditional Urban Fantasy, with Angels, Demons, all that good stuff.
Roth, who only has eyes for Layla.Oh, the love triangle...
Perfection is meaningless, unrealistic and so fucking boring.
A perfectly all-good, virginal, amazing, everyone-wants-to-bone-me, kickass heroine who faultlessly exists at the centre of the universe, while beautiful, perfectly-sculpted, hot boys just orbit around her constantly.
Everyone wants this girl, we are told, but god only knows why.
These men are too perfect for me to care about and fall in love with.
I'd also find it easier to love them if Layla took a break from describing their physical perfection for a second and gave them a personality that goes beyond trying to get in her pants (like every male in this book).
You know what I've figured out? Jennifer L. Armentrout is a panderer. Meaning, she always writes the same formulaic stuff and always has to have extremely hot, six-foot-something bad boys that are there to solely make the main character's--and the young teen female reader's--panties melt.What do I have to say to that? Well, first of all,Secondly, here are a few examples of her not-even-a-little-bit-subtle pattern:Taken from the blurb of Wait for You: "Cameron Hamilton is six feet and three inche
"Cameron Hamilton is six feet and three inches of swoon-worthy hotness, complete with a pair of striking blue eyes and a remarkable ability to make her want things she believed were irrevocably stolen from her.
I'm sure she's a lovely person, but as an author she brings nothing new to the table.
They sell like hot cakes, and because of this, it's rubbing off even more on YA as well--case in point, this book right here.Again, before you fans rip me apart, I have nothing against her as a person.
My Roth, Layla and Zayne:Layla is half-demon, half-Warden.
I love JLA and all her previous paranormal stories.
It wasn't the love triangle or the fact that heroine was perfect example of damsel in distress.
When it comes to "love triangle" in this book, there was only one guy for me.
And after reading this book, I am Team Roth all the way.
Roth was definitely the best part of this book.
She will have her chance with book #2 to either win me over or lost me forever when it comes to The Dark Elements.MORE REVIEWS ON MY BLOG 
This is one of those kinds of books that just fit me and my mood perfectly at the right moment. I loved every single thing about it. I think this series is going to rival Lux for me. I can't wait for everyone to read it!!
Romance and gargoyles! Woo-hoo!
May have ordered the rest of this series ... Oops 🙊
Bin mit dieser Reihe wohl mal wieder nicht wirklich up to Date aber ich habe den ersten Teil schon mal super gerne gemocht und hoffe, dass es so gut bleibt in den beiden Folgebänden.
Ich konnte mir wieder alles sehr gut bildlich vorstellen und man flog nur so durch die Seiten.
Bei den Kampfszenen hätte ich mir etwas mehr Action und Magie gewünscht.
Auch der Gegenspieler hätte noch etwas mehr Charakter haben können und einfach anwesender sein können.
Ich hoffe drauf, dass die Hauptcharaktere in den nächsten Bänden noch etwas am tiefe gewinnen, ich fand bspw.
Meine Rezension dazu: https://youtu.be/ZfLNQrKVWH0
It feels so good re-reading this trilogy.Review to come in a few hours.
"You need something," he said, and when I stared at him, he added, "Your face.""My face?""It's in need of my kisses."  Who would've thought that demons are kind of hot? *sigh* If there's one thing that makes this book beautiful and interesting. It's Roth. Roth. And ROTH.White Hot Kiss is all kinds of awesomesauce. I love the concept Ms. Jennifer L. Armentrout put life into this book. The existence of demons and Wardens (Gargoyles who protect mankind from demons) is a thing that very much catch
And ROTH.White Hot Kiss is all kinds of awesomesauce.
Not necessarily original, but somehow, it's spectacular.While reading this book I felt like I'm in a roller coaster ride.
And speaking of swoony characters, I'm talking about Roth and no other.
I don't know why JLA tried to make him the third party of a love triangle but seriously, I don't like it.
:) Apart from the romantic side, this book also has funny moments and I found myself really laughing at some point.
:D Anyways, I love this book.
I had to patiently read until the final chapters of the book to get my full attention.
Title: White Hot KissSeries: Dark Elements #1Author: Jennifer L ArmentroutRelease Date:  February 24, 2014Rating: 4 starsCliffhanger:. Yes HEA:  (view spoiler)[ Not yet (hide spoiler)]White Hot Kiss is another YA paranormal romance by Jennifer L Armentrout and as every previous book by this author, this novel doesn’t let go even for a single minute. It’s one of those keeping you on the edge till the last page stories that will make you laugh, feel sad and angry as well as introduce you to amazin
It’s one of those keeping you on the edge till the last page stories that will make you laugh, feel sad and angry as well as introduce you to amazing set of surprises, unexpected twists and turns and yes it does have a pretty perfect boy… or even two boys to swoon over.
The only Warden who cares about her is Zayne, Layla’s secret crush.What’s more Layla is dangerous; she craves human and wardens’ souls.
I liked him, but he was not the one that made me all hot and bothered.It was the sexy demon called Roth that made me go all gaga.
Jennifer creates a world filled with gargoyles who are called the "Wardens" and they are against the demons who have escaped Hell.
Her unique abilities help them track demons..She feel safe with them and especially with one of them Zayne, who was on her side from when she was child.
Things are getting more dangerous as more Demons keep appearing trying to find Layla.Can she trust Roth?
Can she still trust Zayne?[image error]Layla was an amazing heroine!
From the beginning, Layla has feelings for Zayne.
Once again, Jennifer manages to create a total convincing paranormal world!
first read: March 16-17, 2015.first reread: July 25-27, 2015second reread: March 20-22, 2016JULY 2015: These books are just so fun. I loved it still, maybe not AS much as I did the first time I read this 4 months ago, BUT it wasn't enough to affect the 5 star rating.  “The newcomer stood well over six feet, as tall as any Warden. His hair was dark, the color of obsidian, and it reflected blue in the dim light. Lazy locks slipped over his forehead and curled just below his ears. Brows arched over
first read: March 16-17, 2015.first reread: July 25-27, 2015second reread: March 20-22, 2016JULY 2015: These books are just so fun.
I've noticed that JLA likes to use the same weird exclamation remarks in all her books...those, I actually found rather annoying...but other than that, I heart Roth lots and lots and lots, he's definitely still top 5 book boyfriend material.
Zayne didn't really bug me the first time I read this, but after having read the 2nd one and deciding I was definitely not 'Team Zayne'....I decided I didn't really like his parts in this book the 2nd time around.
Which is a good thing for both of them since they kiss  a couple of times  a lot.Together they work together to figure out the cause of the recent demon activity and uprising that could possibly lead to the end of the world.
What I liked The characters were pretty good for the most part.I liked Layla and the fact that she was trying to do her best and help everyone.
Even Roth's tattoos and piercings made Layla seem to like him more.It was kind of bizarre that the fact that there are demons wouldn't be known to people.
La verdad es que me ha gustado. Puede que no sea una gran historia, pero sí que engancha desde el momento cero. Creo que el mundo de gárgolas y demonios que ha creado la autora es bastante original, y me ha encantado el punto de humor con el zombie....
4.5 StarsOn vacation- review to come!
I kind of wish I hadn't, it wasn't the greatest book out (but I'll finish the series) and it had a series of issues I found.
Most around the characters, both side and main, the dialogue, the love triangle, and the under developed world.
She was a bit of a kickass character in the end, but still.
Zayne was a character I wouldn't classify as nice, he is a character I would like to stab 28 times in the chest actually.
It followed the classic storyline of a JLA book and did get a bit cliche in some parts.
Can I have it now, pleeease?!
More Books from Jennifer??More Sexy BoysBut then......we have to wait till 2014
First I want to say that I have not read very many gargoyle books so I didn’t know what to expect going into this.
The wardens patrol the earth every night to rid the world of the demons, to protect the humans.
She is seventeen years old and is half warden and half demon.
Demons have the ability to suck the soul out of a human or a warden and Layla has this ability.
And demons don’t have souls, so the whole kissing problem, well, its not a problem with Roth.What I didn’t expect, though, with this book, is to feel so emotionally involved.
6 out of 10 Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work)Short-Soundtrack:AFI– Kiss and controlStarset– My DemonsRoyksopp– Here She Comes AgainGenre: urban-fantasy, YAStuff: gargoyles, demons, hybridsFail: typical ArmentroutWOW: Astaroth POV: 1st-person, femaleLove-Geometry: mediumQuote-Core:   “People with the purest souls are capable of the g
Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work)Short-Soundtrack:AFI– Kiss and controlStarset– My DemonsRoyksopp– Here She Comes AgainGenre: urban-fantasy, YAStuff: gargoyles, demons, hybridsFail: typical ArmentroutWOW: Astaroth POV: 1st-person, femaleLove-Geometry: mediumQuote-Core: 
The matter is, Layla has two boys, both are sexy and handsome, but one of them she can’t kiss or else she’ll take his soul, the other one is perfectly kissable, but he’s a demon.
Five *demons* stars!!This is book one of the The Dark Elements trilogy by Jennifer Armentrout, and oh my God!
(I don't blame her since he's HOT!) That's not the only problem for Layla since being with Roth is like stabbing her family and Zayne in the back.
Give me a YA book that I didn't choose a team?▨▨▨▨▨▨▨▨ Positives: 1) Roth!
I love the fact that Roth and Layla started off as enemies, and ended up pretty close (Pretty cliche but who cares?) 4) The character development.
When I started reading this book, Layla was protected by everyone around her.
Another Jennifer L. Armentrout book? Yes!I mean. I WANT TO KNOW WHAT IT'S ABOUT! I almost fell out of my chair, seeing this. I love Jenn. She is my favorite author of all time and will always be my favorite author.The title though... seems awesome. ANd to express it's awesomeness, i'm going to put a lot of Gerard Butler GIFs because he equals the awesomeness of Jennifer and he is pretty awesome.Go Jennifer. Go Jennifer. Go Jennifer.
Puede que esta historia no haya sido mi favorita de la autora, pero lo mismo me pasó con Obsidian y al final la saga Lux se ha convertido en mi segunda saga favorita.
Sé que con el potencial de Jennifer, va a darnos una segunda parte increíble.
Sin duda alguna os recomiendo muchísimo su lectura, y más si sois fans de Jennifer.
Yo ya estoy deseando que saquen su segunda parte en español porque ¡¡¡menudo final!!!
Oh my freaking god!!This woman is a writing machine!!I cannot wait for this one :-D
Why does every book have to have a love triangle!!! :-(the trust of a boy she’s loved forever^^^Team this guy!
Buy this book on AMAZON  or buy this book on BookDepository with FREE WORLDWIDE SHIPPING 4 of 5 stars (Please read my rating system further below). I would've rated this book more like a 3.8-3.9 but I upped my rating because why not. I loved the characters in this book and they're chemistry with each other, it was fascinating! The foreshadowing was all over the place and kept me on the edge of my seat at all times and it was exhilarating. The world building was a little bit rough in the beginni
Buy this book on AMAZON
or buy this book on BookDepository with FREE WORLDWIDE SHIPPING
4 of 5 stars (Please read my rating system further below).
I would've rated this book more like a 3.8-3.9 but I upped my rating because why not.
I loved the characters in this book and they're chemistry with each other, it was fascinating!
Not because a book might not be worthy, but because a book is never perfect.4 - I loved it!
Don’t get me wrong every book or series she releases I become obsessed with to the point were they get 5 stars because I haven’t moved off my ass for hours because I can’t bear to part from the book and compare every other book boyfriend on the planet to her gorgeous characters… This isn’t sad at all!So when it came to reading White Hot Kiss again, I was absolutely thrilled to find it was like reading the book a fresh with all the plot twists, drama, tension, angst and FEELS!JLA manages to make people made of stone sexy and demons with some interesting piercings and tattoo’s the hottest people on the planet.
5/5Otro libro que se va a mi lista de favoritos. He disfrutado tanto este libro
