https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102030.Musashi
The book opens in the year 1600 at the end of the infamous battle of Sekigahara, where the armies of east and western Japan met to decide who would govern: Toyotomi or Tokugawa.
In the end to Tokugawa emerged victorious and the 150 year period of civil war came to an end.
The book takes us through the highlights of Musashi's career from Sekigahara , to his legendary feud with the Yoshioka sword school of Kyoto to it's culmination at the Duel of the Spreading Pine, finalizing with his infamous duel with the sword saint, Sasaki Kojiro, on Funajima Island.
it is also the largest and most difficult book i have ever read.
however...that is the only negative i have after reading this book.
it focuses on the life (very dramatized by the fantastic eiji yoshikawa-san) of musashi miyamoto, a wandering ronin (samurai) during the edo period (1600's) of feudal japan.
the story the yoshikawa-san unfurls is a fantastic epic of the nature of the way of the sword.
i highly recommend this to those (like me) who have a fascination with japanese history and the way of the samurai in general.
Although it is an entertaining read and I did gain some inspiration from it, I found it really missed the depth you'd expect from such a saga.Apart from Musashi himself, all the other characters in the book are fairly one-dimensional and as a consequence, the story does not really seem to progress or unravel after the first few chapters (the meetings with Sasaki Kojirō are probably an exception to this).I realize the simplicity of the writing might fit the underlying Japanese values but I think it really did not reflect the complexities of the society and the characters it is trying to describe.
But mostly, after a couple of hundred pages, I became annoyed with the fact that while walking all over Japan, Musashi seems to run into the exact same people everywhere.
This is a quick read despite its length. The language is easy and there's plenty of action. Unfortunately I thought the characters are mostly two-dimensional and the plot repetitive. If you're interested in samurais and Japanese culture, give it a try.
Of course one cannot fail to mention two of the most colourful characters in the story: Sasaki Kojiro the great swordsman whose cocksure confidence and wily intellect, along with his unequaled martial prowess, make him Musashi's only possible peer and a real threat for the sword-saint; and Takuan the Buddhist monk who at times can seem little more than a carefree and even clownish figure, while at others he exhibits the harsh and uncompromising nature of a man of great intellectual and moral acuity.
This is easily my favorite book. It's very long and translated from Japanese resulting in some rough spots, but nevertheless, I could not put this one down. I recommend this to anyone...well, anyone who loves sword fighting.
A very weighty historical novel about samurai. I thought I'd like this a lot more than I did. I might try again later.
The book is old enough that the levels of sexism in it are absurd, and parts of it got me so annoyed that I was really distracted from the plot.
I suppose it's interesting to get a perspective on a VERY different culture, but half the time I couldn't fathom any conceivable logical or moral reason why the characters would be doing what they were doing, and this only got worse as the book went along.
That, like pretty much everything else about Musashi (and here I mean both the character and the book itself) was annoying in the extreme.
I read this novel about four years ago.
Telling the tale of Miyamoto Musashi, the sword-saint of Japan, it begins with his rural boyhood and ends with a final showdown between the great warrior and his rival.For such a revered man, the author depicts him as a clear anti-hero, especially during his early years before he officially rose from the peasant class to that of the Samurai.
This novel really is a momentous epic, giving the feeling of actually living in Tokugawa-era Japan - something that comes across in a remarkably accessible way to this westerner.
Ini buku pertama yang banyak memberikan inspirasi dalam hidup saya. Dimana perubahan 180° bisa terjadi dalam hidup kita.Buku ini tidak semata-mata darah dan pertarungan tapi lebih pada Semangat dalam pencarian dan pengembangan jati diri, Kesetiaan dan Kepasrahan Cinta, Keindahan dan Seni.Saya memberikan rating penuh untuk buku ini, bukan karena akan dusukai oleh semua orang. Tapi lebih banyak ke pribadi saya yang tidak akan melupakan sihir dari buku ini pada kehidupan saya.
I am a huge fan of the old Criterion Collection samurai movies and I loved Toshiro Mifune's portrayal of Musashi, so I thought I'd give this a read.
The story is epic in scope and follows Musashi Myamoto's life from the time when he was a 17 year old punk to his final battle with Ganryu, which cemented his fame.
It is a great introduction to Japanese history and has me itching to some follow up non-fiction reading on Japan.As far as rating it, I could go anywhere from a 3 to a 5.
Lumayanlah, dan setelah menamatkannya dalam kurun waktu dua hari tiga malam, sepertinya saya tidak menyesal mengeluarkan uang tadi.Satu yang semestinya dipahami para pembaca adalah buku ini fiksi, walaupun Musashi sendiri merupakan tokoh historis.
Meskipun demikian, kehandalah Eiji Yoshikawa dalam meramu cerita begitu kaya akan informasi dan fakta yang terjadi saat itu, sehingga tidak sulit membawa angan kita memasuki dunia keshogunan Tokugawa 400 tahun silam.
Dalam duel singkat yang sangat terkenal di Ganryujima, Musashi berhasil mengalahkan Sasaki Kojiro dan membuktikan kemampuan dirinya tersebut.***Buku eiji Yoshikawa ini memang tidak mengisahkan keseluruhan masa hidup Musashi, ia hanya memuat fragmen antara umur 19 hingga 29 tahun.
It's a classic bildungsroman with epic battles, tragic romances, fun if somewhat archetypal characters, and a tremendous amount of cultural flavor and historical information.It was published serially, and as a result is extremely episodic, which isn't a flaw precisely, although it does slow down the pacing and make it a trifle choppy.
(Which is not atypical of epic fantasy - witness Robert Jordan's Incredible Resurrectable Villains, an equally annoying example of the form.)But for its flaws, I found it thoroughly entertaining and totally readable, and would recommend it to anyone who doesn't have an allergy to doorstops.
Mostly this book is like Pokemon. A young man wandered around the wilderness in his quest to be the greatest samurai/Pokemon master and runs into others who he does battle with to increase his power. He gains new techniques from kindly old masters and visits temples where he participates in more battles. The story does start to be more engaging in about the last third of the book. You can tell that it was originally released serially and should probably be consumed with the attitude one has towards consuming a season of television.
An incredible, sprawling masterpiece... Yoshikawa tells the story of Japan's greatest swordsman, Miyamoto Musashi, in an awing bildungsroman that sees a young violent punk transformed into a masterful buddhist hero. Inspired the Hiroshi Inagaki Samurai films. Highly recommended.
Tuhle knihu jsem koupil roku 2007, kdy vyšla… a od té doby jí často bral na dovolenou, s tím, že se tam do ní konečně pustím.
I sám Mijamoto funguje zpočátku skoro až náhodně, kdy se vrhá do soubojů a pak z nich utíká, když zjistí, že je soupeřů moc.
Stejně tak důvody, proč postavy něco dělají, jsou skoro zanedbatelné.
I životy hrdinů se odvíjejí více náhodně, jak se postavy nechávají často úmyslně unášet světem kolem nich, ovšem osud je stejně opět svádí dohromady.
Tapi baginya (dan saya kira penulisnya juga), mati tak ada guna sekiranya hidup diobral begitu murah.
Dan Takuan Soho pernah menandaskan, bila hidup kita anggap murah, maka mati pun percuma.Musashi adalah seorang samurai yang dilahirkan di Miyamoto, Propinsi Mimasaka pada akhir abad XVI Masehi.
Orang-orang banyak maklum tanpa mampu berbuat untuk menghindar dari itu semua.Awalnya, Musashi tak memedulikan antara mati dan hidup.
Tapi tak ada apa-apa , sampai si pendeta menyadarkan dan membangkitkan hasratnya untuk memelajari dan menjalani hidup di atas jalan samurai.Lamat-lamat, menyeruak sebuah kalimat dalam Catatan Pinggir 4 (Grafiti Press, Jakarta, 1994) ke dalam benak saya.
An excellent book about the most famous swordsman of all time, Musashi. Closely follows his historical life, so many threads aren't always picked up in a normal narrative fashion. Thoroughly enjoyed all 1000 pages.
Written in the early twentieth century, this indigenous Japanese novel recounts the life & times of old Japan's greatest swordsman, Miyamoto Musashi -- a man who began life as an over-eager and rather brutish young lout but who, through the discipline of Japan's "way of the sword," turned himself into a master of his chosen weapon.
In the end Musashi finds his grail in a duel to the death with his greatest opponent, the sword master famous for his "swallow cut" -- a stroke so fast and deadly that it can slice a swooping, looping bird out of the air in mid-flight.
This is why each chapter feels like an individual short story and why some of the action in each chapter feels forced and aribtrary.I still enjoyed the book overall, especially the first half.
In almost every chapter new characters are introduced.
Even the final two chapters introduce new characters.
It was almost like Yoshikawa got tired of writing and decided to tie up all the loose ends in a single chapter.Although I'm glad I read this novel and still think it's worth reading, I feel it would have been better if:* Characters were fewer and developed better.* A map was used to show the locations of all the towns and cities, which are just as numerous as the characters.* Some of the plot had been tightened up.* The conclusion of the novel had been given more thorough treatment.
Taiko, the actual novel that was reccomended to me, has a very similar tone and feel as Musashi, but what really interested me in this book is that the politics of ancient Japan is the backdrop for the novel, as Musashi, a maturing Samurai, wanders through the Japanese countryside.
Perhaps this is historically accurate but either way it is an interesting choice to focus on his flaws as a catalyst for this learning.I would reccomend this to someone that is interested in Japanese and Samurai culture foremost.
There are books that overwhelm you to such an extent that you are at a utter loss to explain how you feel after you have finished them.It is not that you are unable to pick the right words but you know that any words you choose will be in adequate to completely express how you feel.Let me still try,this book is going to have a strong bearing on the kind of person I turn out to be.As I shadowed Musashi through his wanderings and his education, I felt every emotion that coursed through his veins.It was an education in the simplistic application of discipline to lead a more complete life.This book has been a spectacular find.
It's like being confined in a shell.
But by chastising myself and forcing myself to go on, I manage to kick through the shell.
Then a new path opens up before me.”  - Musashi

Erfitt að lýsa með orðum. Mjög áhrifarík bók, mæli með. Gerist ekki mikið betra að mínu mati.
Хронологически, действие романа начинается практически там же, где заканчивается горячо любимый мною "Сёгун" Джеймса Клавелла (надо перечитать!), однако, в отличие от западного взгляда на знаменательные исторические события в Японии, поступки главных действующих лиц романа куда менее масштабны в контексте геополитики, но намного более подробно рассказывают читателю о Японии того времени.Главный герой - молодой ронин Такёдзо из деревни Миямото, на пару со своим товарищем Матахати оставшийся в живых после проигранного сражения с войсками Токугавы.
Ambientato nel 1600 , il romanzo inizia subito dopo la battaglia di Sekigahara (15/09/1600) e termina con la tenzone fra il protagonista e Sasaki Kojiro (1612).Romanzo storico, ricco di personaggi , alcuni dei quali realmente esistiti e non celati da pseudonimi, narra le gesta del giovane Takezo che solo in seguito prenderà il nome di Musashi Miyamoto.
La maggior parte degli avvenimenti narrati sono perciò realmente accaduti; fu grazie a Yoshikawa che Musashi divenne uno fra i più importanti personaggi del folklore giapponese.
Shinmen Takezo, che cambierà il suo nome nell'universalmente noto Musashi Miyamoto, è uno di quei personaggi destinato a diventare leggenda.Incarna l'ideale del vagabondo alla perenne ricerca di qualcosa.
Fondamentalmente, alla ricerca di se stesso.Troppo affascinante per non essere preso a modello.La sua "via", il suo lascito, è ben più spirituale che tecnico, a dispetto di quanto potrebbe pensare chi inquadra Musashi semplicemente come "guerriero".
Non è un caso che la scuola da lui fondata, "Niten Ichi-ryu" [Due Cieli in Uno], nata come disciplina che fonda il proprio credo sull'utilizzo di due spade in duello, una lunga ed una più corta, sia diventata nel tempo un modello che trascende la sua origine.
Penso questo sia uno di quei libri che parte un po’ in sordina ma che ti vince pagina dopo pagina, poi arrivi alla fine e non riesci più a staccartene.
Ogni storia, anche la più piccola, s’intreccia poi in un disegno più grande.
Ho imparato senza sforzo un sacco di cose!Scritto da Musashi avevo già letto il Libro dei cinque anelli, e temevo che la rappresentazione romanzata del personaggio non avrebbe corrisposto alla sensazione che dà un testo vero.
Ed anche i personaggi non esattamente buoni, sono impossibili da odiare; seppur fallaci e cattivi, sono comprensibili e a volte amabili.Una grande pecca è l’edizione.
Non propriamente un samurai, ma un ronin, ovvero un samurai senza padrone.Sono gli inizi del 1600, Musashi abbandona la sua precendete vita per intraprendere la via del samurai, la via della spada, ma ci sono sempre tante difficoltà che simettono sul cammino di un uomo.
Le motivazioni che spingono ad intraprendere un cammino sono tatne, ma sono tante anche le tentazioni che spingono ad abbandonarlo, quindi si lotta, si medita, si combatte, ci si allena, si dipinge, si scrive, si viaggia, si cercano nemici, si cercano amici, ma soprattutto si cerca la via della verità, si cerca la via suprema, si cerca se stessi.
Intimidated by its length for such a 7-book novel, I did not think I would finish reading this epic novel of a master samurai named Miyamoto Musashi (c.
However, it is not simply a novel of ruthless, gory and god-like fights we might have read in the same genre or guessed from its brutal-looking cover, rather it is a classic samurai novel penned brilliantly by Eiji Yoshikawa since its book titles may suggest its contents and challenge our wonder: Earth, Water, Fire, Wind, Sky, Sun and Moon, The Perfect Light.
