https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47558.The_Gashlycrumb_Tinies
this is not a book review so much as a fulfillment of a request by ladies whose whims i cannot refuse...R(est) I(n) P(ubescence): A Study of Child Mortality in Battle Royale and The Gashlycrumb Tinies as Historical Documentsedward gorey was an american illustrator, and as such his children, or "tinies", meet their ends in very american ways.
“A is for Amy who fell down the stairs. ....naturally, I would start with my name, right? Right?I feel so bad saying how much I enjoyed this one....It's Edward Gorey, people! One of the artists that defined the Gothic illustrating style as we know it today. Influenced with Victorian and Edwardian elements, this alphabet book is everything an alphabet book shouldn't be (...and I am not making any sense...) because it's morbid to the core. But I loved it. And I am a teacher. And what does this sa
Right?I feel so bad saying how much I enjoyed this one....It's Edward Gorey, people!
One of the artists that defined the Gothic illustrating style as we know it today.
I know this would be a book that will be difficult to stomach for some readers but if we try and ignore the macabre of the situations, then the entertaining factor is right there.
Plus, it's Edward Gorey.
One cannot write a review on any of his works.
He is meant to be experienced, his artistic style, his particular way of writing, his uniqueness...Trust me, you won't be disappointed...
I loved this little book.
I love Edward Gorey.
I know this is macabre and quirky.
I think being the end of my trimester and drained of sleep, I simply was dying laughing at each page of this book.
I don't know why.
The art is classic Gorey and only he would be quirky enough to use ennui.
This is amazing stuff and I think this stuff is rather brilliant.
And, it is a good stress reliever, apparently.This is not for everyone, but if you like quirky and different, I think you will enjoy this master's work.
or... After the OutingWew, weird, dark, absurd.... but intriguing...In short, A-Z alphabet but a morbid one. Children who tragically parted with life...A is for Amy who fell down the stairs...B is for Basil assaulted by bears...And so on until Z. Black & white drawings. Absurd, the weirdest collection....Second Gorey for me, what an artist.... Anyone have a recommendation for my next Edward Gorey?
I have a love-hate relationship towards creepy children's books.
During my childhood, they used to scare the hell out of me - in those days the enlightened souls who wrote children's books were of the opinion that scaring the living daylights out of a kid was the best way to ensure that he grew up to be an upright human being.
But instead of the "A for Apple, B for Ball" we have kids who met their end in various unusual and gruesome ways.
And the accompanying pictures are creepy and funny at the same time.
I mean, how many kids "die of ennui"?
Every time I read a disturbing book, I'm gripped by the thought of wanting to make my future children read it (don't know what that says about me).
I mean, this book is perfect- a perfect cocktail of morbidity, poetry, beautiful art and the funnies.
This is a book about 26 children (or as Gorey calls them, tinies) each for a different alphabet who meet a Gorey (heh) end.
It's beautiful!
And it's a book with a lesson- we all are mortals, we're all bound to die sometime.
Bah, fairy tales with high unrealistic quotients.
Give me some disturbing children's book any day.
I've met the guy that inspired the awesome Tim Burton, finally. And as I figured, his weird awesomeness is breathtaking. This is a book apparently for children (it is NOT) that, with quite a morbid sense of humor, teaches the alphabet. Twenty-six ways to die and lovely pictures describing each one of them.This would have been such a funny way to learn the alphabet, although I'd probably be a hypochondriac or a sociopath by now. Who knows. My letter is FNow that's a bad way to go.Nov 10, 13* Also on my blog.** Photo credit: Edward Gorey
Think of a macabre, Victorian 'Dumb Ways to Die', decorated with dark drawings of 26 children named from A (Amy) to Z (Zillah).
The pictures and words describe all the ways this alphabet soup of children met their unfortunate ends:K is for KATE who was struck with an axeL is for LEO who swallowed some tacksAs you can see, most of these child deaths find themselves as a link in a dark couplet.
Anyway, it was fun, morbid and diverting (unless you knew a child who died from axes or tacks, lakes or mistakes).
Probably Gorey's most famous work, clever and lightly (?) sardonic and meticulously crafted. An abecedarian book. Told in dactylic (look it up!) couplets about each of 26 (one for each letter of the alphabet) children and how they met their untimely deaths. Sound horrific? It's very fun and funny and for all ages. I have read this book many times, and own it, as you all should.
Twenty-six different ways to die! Now, I am no stranger when it comes to reading dark and morbid books for children since I had read children’s books such as “Halloween ABC” and “The Spider and the Fly” which were just as morbid. But “The Gashlycrumb Tinies” was one of the first children’s books I have read that is about several different ways for kids to die! “The Gashlycrumb Tinies” is a picture book written and illustrated by Edward Gorey and it is a book that will truly cause every reader’s
“The Gashlycrumb Tinies” is a picture book written and illustrated by Edward Gorey and it is a book that will truly cause every reader’s hairs to stick up at their ends!This book is basically set up as reciting the alphabet by detailing every child’s name that starts with the letters of the alphabet and how each child dies, such as one poem about a boy named Basil being assaulted by bears.Now, the moment you see the image of a skeleton dressed in a black overcoat and top hat carrying a black umbrella and looming over several children on the cover of this book, then you will know that this book is no ordinary book for children.
Perfection!The Gashlycrumb Tinies is a work of utterly fantastic macabre hilarity.
It's one of those books you cackle maniacally over while flipping through it after a run-in at the local Mega-Mart with some snot-nosed brat screeching and howling because Mommy wouldn't let him get that ridiculously expensive new toy or some treat with 20,000 grams of sugar.And it never loses that special ghastly charm.
Quick, simple, and simply hilarious, it's enjoyable no matter how many times you revisit it.
Laugh.
You won't be sorry.
A singsong story by Edward Gorey full of cheerful black and grey illustrationseach one of a kidat the moment they didmeet a tragic and early termination.By wolf maw and knifethey depart from this life,by drowning, falling and decapitationuntil each one is slewnand their bodies are strewnall about Gorey's morbid imagination.The funniest aspect of this, I believe, is the way each picture shows the child right before the tragedy occurs.
For instance, the girl about to die of poisoning is shown sitting down with her hand on her tummy, making a slightly worried face.
The girl who gets impaled is shown tossing a big metal rod up in the air.
And I just love the little boy that dies of ennui.
Si alguien deseara conocer el estilo de Edward Gorey, sin lugar a duda "Los pequeños macabros" sería mi primera recomendación. No solo porque se pueden apreciar perfectamente los rasgos característicos de los niños de Gorey, sino porque es de lo más fúnebre y mórbido que tiene. Básicamente, un ABC de niños cuyas muertes fueron indefectiblemente trágicas.
The Gashlycrumb Tinies is an adorable, morbid way to learn your ABCs. I especially loved 'K is for Kate who was struck with an axe'. I don't know what that says about me.
This is a book that I originally purchased YEARS ago, that was later "acquired" by someone else.... I just bought myself a new copy, and had nearly forgotten how clever the words (and illustrations!) were.*Not a children's book--but it is a "fun" read! ;) *
Wonderful, almost indescribable. Do yourself a favor...go and find a copy of this perversely delightful little book immediately. Enjoy!
Gorey's most famous alphabet book, set to rhyme, begins "A is for Amy who fell down the stairs" and continues on with a litany of gruesome accidents, churning its way through 26 very unfortunate children, accompanied by his delightfully dark drawings. I used to have this in poster form, but alas, it too fell to disaster. But happy day (ironically), it comes in book form. I bought this at Left Bank books in Pike Place Market, "the anarchist bookstore." Support your local small bookstores! http://www.leftbankbooks.com/
An A-Z of macabre ways different children die. As awful as that sounds, this is a fun, quick read. The highlight:(view spoiler)["N is for Neville who died of ennui." (hide spoiler)]
The moral of this, children - just don't be born into an Edward Gorey story. An axe through the frontal lobe is not very good for your health. Being eaten by a bear may also disrupt your promising future. It's just better not to.
Right. This'll give me nightmares.I don't know why I do this to myself.
On the same day, I saw this wonderful tribute to Sue Grafton of the "Alphabet Mysteries" from NPR's Fresh Air .
"she got the idea after reading Edward Gorey's alphabet picture book, The Gashlycrumb Tinies, in which children die in grisly ways ("B is for Basil assaulted by bears," "G is for George smothered under a rug" and so on)." I love that she got the idea for her popular mystery series so serendipitously!
As you would expect from Gorey, this is a dark, twisted and utterly delightful A-Z series of drawings and couplets telling how children met their fate, as in the "B" and "G" in Grafton's quote.
An alphabetical romp through various escapades undertaken by diffent people, all of whom look likely to meet an untimely end such as "N is for Neville who died of ennui" (my favourite) as he stares out of a window prior to presuambly departing this life! The usual ghastly interesting illustrations from the author add to the overall effect.
Pro-tip: if you use this book to teach your kids the alphabet, Child Services will appear instantaneously and take them away.In other words, this is delightfully morbid and perfectly illustrated, and I think my favorite is "B is for Basil, assaulted by bears."
It has dawned on me that Edward Gorey stole all of my good ideas. Before I ever had them.
I read this years and years ago, but since I just re-read it - it takes about ten minutes - I'll put it on my count for 2017.
This book is small and darkly, horribly funny.
(I went in 2015.) The story here?
No story, just an alphabet of unfortunate young'uns who meet all kinds of terrible fates.
Two of my favorites:A is for Amy who fell down the stairs...B is for Basil assaulted by bears...E is for Ernest who choked on a peach...F is for Fanny sucked dry by a leech...Anyhow, excellent little weird, creepy, funny book.
One of my all-time favorites.
One of my favorites. The combination of Gorey's intricate drawings and his matter of fact dialog just kills me. I like to use this book as a barometer of whether or not I can be friends with someone. I often give this book to new parents. My favorites: N is for Neville who died of ennui.W is for Winnie embedded in ice
I've filed this as a "childish delight" but make no mistake, while it reads like a child's rhyme, it's really meant for adults. You could quite possibly scar a child for life by making this a bedtime story :-D An absolute classic, and not to be missed!!!!
C is for Clara who wasted away.U is for Una who slipped down a drain.Y is for Yorick whose head was knocked in.Z is for Zillah who drank too much gin.The pictures complete the sadistic fun of it. hahahSo glad I've found this.
Given the alphabetic diversity of my friends' names, I think I should write a piece myself! So much fun! ;)
