https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59157.Balzac
When he was able to scatter his bounty there was nobody to compare with Balzac.This baggy biography is a joyful mess, but one explained in a postscript by Zweig's friend Paul Friedenthal.
The manuscript was still inchoate at the time of Zweig's death in Brazil.
There is something timeless and human in the ambition of both Balzac and Zweig.
There isn't much textual analysis in this hefty tome.
It isn't unduly ribald either.
Balzac was doomed in love as well and Zweig pulls no punches in his characterization of Balzac's wife Madame Eve De Hanksa: a bored snob who wanted to shag celebrity.
Zweig often mentions Balzac's genius and I would not have been in a position to understand without having read him.
I said something in writing my review of The Muse of the Department about "lesser works" so not to expect them to be so good.
Though Zweig includes summaries or descriptions of many titles, I never felt any of my yet unread of Balzac's works was spoiled by too much information.
There is an appendix with a good timeline, which includes a brief statement of what was going on in Balzac's life and the works that were published.
But even as it stands, it offers great insight into the forces tat drove Balzac’s creativity (a sense of grandiosity that turned out to be a motivator rather than an neurosis) as well as the obstacles with which he always wrestled, his inability to achieve the financial freedom of which he dreamed, his failure to get the aristocratic-like status he desired (the de in front to Balzac was his own add-on), and the ever elusiveness of domestic bliss.
Perhaps Balzac’s own life was the greatest of the Balzac stories.
Balzac, eine BiographieOp een zomerdag in een uitleen-boekenkist bij een zwembad gevonden, in een park in Zwitserland. Twee grote vliegen in één klap: Stefan Zweig beschrijft het leven van Balzac zo hilarisch boeiend, dat ik me niets beters kon voorstellen, dan aan Balzacs ouevre te beginnen. Vol respect bracht ik het boek terug. Een week erna was het weg, maar lag er een Balzac in die kist.
Talihsizliklerle dolu bir yaşamöyküsü... Her şeye rağmen asla ümitsizliğe ve karamsarlığa kapılmayan bir adam... Balzac'ın bu ders alınacak nitelikteki yaşamı insanı düşünmeye itiyor, okunmasını ilgililerine şiddetle tavsiye ederim :) İyi okumalar :) *İnsanın başına hep aynı şey geliyor : Tam bir karara varmak üzere olduğu an, inancını kaybetmeye başlıyor.
Not my favorite account of Balzac's life (and honestly I am open to suggestions because I have not found one that really interests me yet), and yet written with Zweig's typical wit, I was a bit underwhelmed with this particular one :(
Es una lectura que me ha impresionado de principio a fin, Zweig nos mete de cabeza en la vida y mundo de Balzac, endeudado siempre, trabajando en horarios de hasta 17 horas seguidas, escribió de todo, teatro, novela, relatos cuentos, fundó periódicos y revistas que escribía casi todo él.
Con él viajamos a Viena, Venecia, Ucrania, y sobre todo nos movemos por París.
La vida de un verdadero artista en todas sus facetasPara mí no tiene desperdicio, la he leído despacio, compaginándolo con otros libros, he disfrutado mucho y me lleva a meterme en LA COMEDIA HUMANA, aunque he leído parte de ella, intentaré leer y releer poco a poco lo que puedaMuy recomendable
Elegí este libro porque me encanta como escribe Zweig, su biografía de Maria Estuardo me gustó mucho, sin embargo, este se me ha hecho muy denso, está escrito más como ensayo que como novela y se nota, no se me ha hecho pesado pero me costaba avanzar en su lectura. Sin embargo la vida de Balzac es digna de conocerse, desde sus comienzos, (vaya madre) hasta el final, una persona que no dejaría indiferente a nadie y con una capacidad de escribir imposible para un simple mortal
Que de souffrances dans sa vie je ne connaissais pas du tout la vie de Balzac. Je suis complètement accro aux biographies de Stefan Zweig et celle la est particulièrement fabuleuse.
4 1/2 stars
Une biographie qui se répète beaucoup, ce qui l'empêche de prendre de la hauteur sur le personnage de Balzac.
Zweig fait preuve d'une grande complaisance pour Balzac en ce qui concerne ses relations amoureuses.
Par exemple, pourquoi, alors que Balzac confie à ses correspondantes tout au long de sa vie vouloir épouser une riche veuve qui acquitterait sa dette, accorder tant de crédit à son amour pour Mme Hanska et condamner le fait qu'elle-même se moquerait de lui?Cependant Zweig a le mérite d'insister véritablement sur le travail, les conditions d'écriture de Balzac, et l'écriture tente de restituer le côté rabelaisien de l'auteur.
A biography of a prolific author by a prolific author. This is a delicious biography that takes you into the world of a writer of the 19th cntury with surprising parallels to the writer's world today: dealing with publicity, publishers, fans and contracts as well as finding the time to write, looking for good stories, imbibing stimulants to keep awake. All there and all fluently told.
Piękna historia życia wielkiego twórcy napisana przez twórcę nieco bardziej kameralnego, ale przez to nie mniejszego! Sporo smacznych szczegółów z literackiego życia XIX-wiecznego Paryża i mocno krytyczny szkic Pani Hańskiej. Idealne dla każdego kto lubi zaglądać za kulisy wielkiej literatury!
On the joys of working one's self to death. The chapter 'Black Coffee' is a masterpiece of imaginative reconstruction.
Mükemmel bir biyografi.
An excellent and highly readable biography by Zweig who is an author himself of both fiction and non-fiction.
Zweig dimostra la propria abilità non solo nei romanzi, ma anche nelle biografie di illustri personaggi che ha stilato nel corso della propria vita!E qui ricostruisce passo passo la vita di un genio della letteratura francese, vita complicata dalla sua ingenuità e dalla pessima predisposizione verso gli affari.
Balzac ha sempre vissuto al limite della povertà e pieno di debiti, pur essendo stato un uomo parecchio attivo ed ingegnoso.
Sposare una ricca vedova e coprire tutti i propri debiti.
Ci riuscirà solo dopo una vita di tribolazioni e ormai prossimo alla fine, dopo aver vissuto una vita degna di uno dei protagonisti di un suo romanzo.
An excellent old fashioned character study. Balzac's life turns out to be like a Balzac novel with the exception of his ferocious will to write. He strictly regimented his writing life and the rest was a chaos of debt, courtships of women with money, and a series of madcap schemes many of which are comic - Sardinian silver mines?? The writings are treated in a genera way - the literary project and the development of the realistic novel. The couple of pages on Balzac's reviews of Stendhal and the latter's gratitude are touching.
Incantevole ritratto della vita, le esorbitanti opere, i molti errori e le più assurde stravaganze di un gigante passionale della letteratura francese del XIX, "impaziente per passione e passionale per impazienza", narrate con eleganza, precisa introspezione e molto amore dalla veloce penna dello zio Stephan...-----Un ritratto è sempre solo la sezione di una pellicola viva, un attimo di immobilità, di riserbo, un gesto interrotto.-----Soltanto la monomania, la dedizione a una passione esclusiva, conferisce potenza e si afferma irresistibilmente: questa è «l’idea madre» della psicologia balzachiana, che egli svolgerà in varianti innumerevoli nel corso della sua opera.----
Stórskemmtileg bók um mann sem þarf auðsjáanlega að kynna sér betur. Kæmi þó á óvart ef einhver hans skáldsagna er lygilegri en lífshlaup hans sjálfs. Ljósi varpað á gallerí tilfinninga og upplifana skáldsins sem Sweig kryfur af sinni Austurrísku nákvæmni m.a. út frá heimspeki-, sálfræði- og félagsfræðilegum sjónarhornum.
Ho scoperto Zweig come biografo, attraverso il suo Maria Antonietta, ma amo anche il romanziere. Questo Balzac è un'altra lettura incantevole che scorre via velocissima malgrado la mole, appunto, balzachiana.
La biographie d’un grand écrivain par un autre grand écrivain est sans doute une pièce unique. On peut apprécier que il n’a pas put la finir: parfois trop de détails, et d’autre aspects peu approfondits. Un chef d’oevre intense mais qui donne envie de lire Balzac de même que Zweig!
Un ogre de la littérature dépeint par un autre génie en admiration totale (et évidente pour tout lecteur de son œuvre) devant une telle force créatrice.
Stefan Zweig'ın bu biyografisinde, eserlerini hayranlıkla okuduğum Balzac'ın zaaflarıyla, yanlışlarıyla ve banalliğiyle sıradan bir insan olarak tasvirinden büyük keyif aldım.
Sonuçta kürek mahkumu gibi yaşayan bir insanın hayata devam edebilmesi için kendini bazı yalanlarla avutması, kafasını dağıtmaya çalışması kadar normal bir şey yok.
Eğer aksi yaşansaydı, Zweig'ın biyografisinde mutlu mesut yaşayan bir adam olarak tasvir edilseydi Balzac bu işte bir gariplik olduğunu düşünürdüm.
Evet, belki Balzac'ın para ve mevkii hırsı banal hatta en sevdiğim karakterlerinden biri olan Lucien de Rubempré karakterinin şöhret ve para hırsı da bir öz eleştiri fakat o romanları yazabilmek için geçirilen uykusuz geceleri ve kendini adayışını düşünün.
One reason this biography is so successful as an exploration of the inner life of Balzac is that Zweig seems to have an innate sympathy of and understanding for the trials and stresses felt by Balzac as he labored away under the crushing need to make a living from his writing.A principal theme of Zweig's analysis is that Balzac spent much of his life caught in a trap of financial necessity that forced him to over-produce and over-strain his creative faculties.

Замечательное монументальное чтиво. Совсем по другому представляется картинка жизни тех времен. Рекомендую.
Ég las ævisögu Balzac eftir Zweig reyndar á Kindel á ensku eftir að ég rakst á íslensku þýðinguna í bókabúð. Skemmst er frá því að segja að Balzac er einn magnaðasti karakter heimsbókmenntanna og enn skrautlegri en týpurnar sem hann skapaði í sínum fjölmörgu skáldsögum. Því miður hefur lítið sem ekkert verið þýtt eftir Balzac á íslensku (bara smásögur?). Vonandi verður bætt úr því. Ég mæli eindregið með þessari frábæru sögu um magnaðan mann og frábæran rithöfund.
The bio was well written about a man who seemed to fail at everything he ever tried to do. So it went on, one failure after another and one imaginary love affair after another. Reading this has made me interested in reading some of Balzac's works which I have not as yet read.
I knew nada about Balzac until I read thie bio. I bought it in a book stall in Philly. When I finished it, I plowed through most of his major works.
