https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140503.Acting
It was a nice book! :) And smooth .. I think I really benefited from the book as an actress ... sometime .. mmmmmm .. I think that this book made me realize a lot about the art of acting ...استفدت من الكتاب دا كممثة في مرحلة ما .. :)هوه في العموم كتاب شائق وسلس قراءته كانت ممتعه فعلا :)
It was a nice book! :) And smooth .. I think I really benefited from the book as an actress ... sometime .. mmmmmm .. I think that this book made ​​me realize a lot about the art of acting ...استفدت من الكتاب دا كممثة في مرحلة ما .. :)هوه في العموم كتاب شائق وسلس قراءته كانت ممتعه فعلا :)
I absolutely adored it.
It is written beautifully, clearly stating each lesson in dialogue form.
It is of great help for actors, directors and public alike, and shows the philosophical view of Boleslavsky's life in the theatre.
For me, as an actress, it allowed me to further understand my relationship with the stage, and reshape the way I work.
They are certainly one of the most straight-forward and valuable lessons on acting I have ever had.
I hoped, however, for a longer text...
Boleslavsky is a master of words, and so it shows in these pages.
No unnecessary or empty words.
Boleslavsky's chapter on Observation is more reminiscent of meditating and truly taking in all the fragments of life than preparing for a working experience.It is in these moments that I think the practice of learning how to act really are the practice of learning how to live.
When I was 20 I made the decision to follow filmmaking instead of acting, and while I don't regret that choice, I am always aware of the true benefits that actors have in learning life lessons.
From learning how to really study people to studying themselves, there is a honesty and depth to that profession which astounds me.Boleslavsky's book is written as dialogues in a play.
I had a smile on my face all the way through. Everything about it is so beautiful and real. My teacher gave it to us as a textbook but to me it is a story. I don't know how great of a read it would be for someone who has no interest in theater, but I'm sure that everyone can identify with something in this book. It gave me a new view of life.
My fav quotes (not a review):• "Stanislavsky’s fine contribution is welded into the text of his autobiography, My Life in Art,"• "last minute on his work of steering his schooner."• "Every play is written for one or at most a few “high tension” moments. The audience pays the price of the tickets MEMORY OF EMOTION 33 —not for two whole hours—but for the best ten seconds, the ten seconds when it gets the biggest laugh or thrill."• "“The object of Education is not to know but to live.”"• "First, th
The audience pays the price of the tickets MEMORY OF EMOTION 33 —not for two whole hours—but for the best ten seconds, the ten seconds when it gets the biggest laugh or thrill."•	"“The object of Education is not to know but to live.”"•	"First, the main trunk, the idea, the reason.
Third, the foliage, the result of the previous two, the brilliant presentation of idea, the bright conclusion of reasoning."•	"A whispered line—like moaning wind—)"•	"May I ask you, Madame, if you ever heard of a new delightful game which is played much in German Kindergartens, called Achtungspiele?
But probably not.This guy (Boleslavsky) talks with the same, all-knowing masterful wisdom of Sun Tzu, only I've never fucking heard of him.
He opens up with a condescending conversation he had with an 18-year-old girl, who he only refers to as "the Beautiful Creature" (seriously, throughout the whole chapter) and he keeps giving her mysterious acting riddles, knowing there isn't an answer.
I wish he was writing fortune cookies and kung fu movies instead of acting books.If this guy was my teacher, I'd tell him to talk plainly to me and stop auditioning for a part that's not available to him.
Structured as a dialogue between the author and a young actress - "The Creature" - the book discusses the authors first essential six lessons of acting. First is concentration, and the ability of the actor to focus on their performance and nothing else. Second is memory of emotion, and the ability to connect one's acting to their own emotional experiences. These are followed by dramatic action, and characterization (becoming the character, as a real person with real history). Finally, observation and rhythm. Although I have no interest in acting, this is certainly an interesting and unusual book to read.
If you felt happy and joyful while reading it, there is an actor inside you!! Completly justifies the Hindi proverb "Gaagar main Saagar"!!
If you're an actor, it's worth wading through the awkward presentation of this book to mine out the nuggets of wisdom in here. There actually are some useful pieces in here.
I just can't get over the fact that the dialogues name the younger female as the creature.
The bits of advice he gives to the Creature are essentially the "lessons" of the book.
Given that, there are lots of quotable lines.I enjoyed the book as a pleasure read, but as a definitive guide on acting?
The book, overall, seemed as abstract as the subject itself.Upon reading the Fifth and Sixth Lessons, I realized that this book would have done well to be advertised as a manual on life.
I read a comparison somewhere that is like the actor's Bible, and I wholly agree: the text offers so much, but the presentation of it is unrelatable.
The book is still worth reading, because it's like the original guide on acting.
I love how advice about the creation of art often doubles up as good general life advice.
You can apply these words to learning to paint, write songs, act, or get through your day to day life.I'm so glad I discovered this little gem of a book, written like a play and split into six 'lessons' on the art of acting.
The theatre and the actor enter this picture only as a part.
But the actor cannot portray the whole if he does not become a part."
While remarkably insightful into the process of becoming a dedicated actor, this play-styled acting guide takes the actor's inspiration for granted.
I want to really feel drawn into acting, not just told, "See me after you take up two years of physical and vocal training." What discouraging bullshit!
I believe I can start developing myself as an actor even while I am working on getting into shape and freeing up my vocal range.
Thanks Boleslavsky for the honesty and poeticism about becoming an actor, but no thanks for the pretentiousness and discouragement.
Respect for Acting
Using the old-fashioned technique of a dialogue between teacher and student, six "lessons" are offered revealing the techniques of this psychologically-based acting technique.Reading as a writer, I found great value particularly in the subjects of character-building, what to look for when observing, searching great works of art for clues about mannerisms, posture, etc.
Developing skills of identifying not only the expected emotion in a situation, but refining this with knowledge of the character, are particularly helpful.Four stars, because as a book, I find the artificial "conversation" is a tedious style of information presentation to read.I'm glad to have this on my bookshelf, and I'll be re-reading it for years.
AMAZING!!!
This text is written in dialogue format and I can't imagine it written any other way.
Boleslavsky imparts an incredible amount of information with so little waste; it's a beautiful reading experience.
From an acting standpoint, he addresses and gets to the very core of the foundations that one needs in order to do the job with total honesty.
There is humor, pathos, and beauty and I feel very fortunate to have been assigned this book.
I will read it many times over and I recommend it for anyone, whether or not they are interested in acting.
It's not so much about acting, but about living.
Awesome book that covers the basics of acting but also skills that apply to experiencing life. Best of all, it is a marvelously quick and easy read (finished in one read in a couple of hours). It's written as a story of interactions between a teacher and student. The simple exercises described in the chapters on concentration, observation and memory of emotion are great in honing in on those skills and improving a person's capacity of experiencing the world (which is what talent in acting is about).
I've read this book multiple times since my first reading in my acting class back in college and I always seem to get something new with each successive reading. It's the kind of book where different parts seem to take on greater importance depending on where you are in your acting journey. I recommend this book to every actor not only as a unique quidebook but also as a source of inspiration.
The only way to learn acting is to get on the stage, but this classic instruction manual for anyone interested in theatre is a great book to firm up those theories that the professor tells you are essential for good acting.
I found this book very helpful! It outlines six techniques that can help improve the quality of your acting. It's written in the form of a conversation which makes it an easy read. An absolute must for actors.
This is a excellent book on Acting. the original was written in 1939 or something like that.. I read this my second year in collage in 1975. It is a book on six different lessons with a student/professor. Every theatre student should read it!!
The BEST
My large format photography teacher decided to make us read this and relate all the lessons in acting to photography. I really wouldn't have read the book otherwise.
Very abstract, he is supposed to be the acting god but, if you already have some acting classes and know how behind you this is a waste of money.
I read this book way before I started doing any theater for real. Such a great and interesting read. Really well written and keeps you invested. Very smart book.
a quick read that totally pulled me in. although it definitely made me want to rush back to the stage, it has refreshed my perspective of life outside the theatre walls as well.
One of the best books i've read in the past years. It makes theoretical issues so easy to understand. And it's short, well written and funny.
Very interesting, but since I don't plan to dedicate my life to theatre, I don't know how much it really helped me.
If you want to be an actor, you need to read this.
Good bock with very far-reaching acting technique concepts. It definitely extends the scope of the craft of an acting technique.
A book I will be rereading and referencing many many times throughout my life.Chock-full of knowledge and important lessons, and entertaining to boot.
