https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90619.Little_Big
The sky had got big, you know, the way it does when it clears at last after a long rainy time, and everything looked near; the place the rainbow came down was near; and I wanted more than anything to go and stand in it – and look up – and be covered with colors." Smoky laughed.
I mean the book feels like it's a thousand pages.Some people like it, as you can tell by other reviews: the language is often quite clever, it ends on a semi-strong note, and it plays with myth in some interesting ways.
On top of that, the fantastical aspects of this book were never surprising or especially interesting.When it comes to the characters, we run through four generations in about 600 pages.
If someone isn't even alive during your story's climax, then why do you think it's a good idea to tell me about them?But if these characters had come to life for me, I would've probably still enjoyed the book.
sometimes, when dreaming, i am aware of a complex and mysterious history to the at times strange but often mundane narrative of the dream itsef.
and all these moments live in a world with a background and a future that is vast, mystical, dreamlike, one that cannot be expressed with any kind of logical or linear description.
and in the end, they become grand and they sweep the characters and the reader towards what almost feels like an understanding of the purpose and destination of it all.
i sighed in amazement, many times, at the wonder of it all; it is like a dream made half-real.
En los años por venir se preguntaría, algunas veces despreocupadamente, otras con verdadera angustia, si después de haber entrado allí esa primera vez, había en verdad vuelto a salir; pero en aquel momento subió, simplemente hasta donde ella estaba, delirante de felicidad por el mero hecho de haber llegado al fin, al cabo de una larga y extraña travesía, y de que ella le diese la bienvenida con los ojos castaños cargados de promesas (y acaso fuera esa la única finalidad del viaje, su felicidad de ese momento, y de ser así, una felicidad maravillosa y perfecta para él), y que, cogiendo su mochila y tomándolo de la mano, lo condujera a las regiones altas y frescas de la casa.
In order to encompass both the big picture of a world where technology drives mythical creature into oblivion and the inner life of sensitive souls looking for a purpose in life, Crowley builds a house that exists in multiple realities at once and brings into it a weird family that seems attuned to the lost music of Faerieland.
To understand this crossroad in their path together, Crowley takes us back into the past of the house of the Drinkwater family, and forward in time to follow their offspring as they struggle to make sense of the game these alien creatures are playing.
This will be an easy review for a glorious book of Fae, story, and four generations of an interesting family.To say it's lyrical misses the point of the theme, that the deeper you look, the bigger it gets.
Or we can forever hunt for the door to that imagination made real or we could be lost in fever dreams and lose the very idea of love and family.
And let's not forget Valente's Fairyland series which deliberately picks up the flavor and even some of the naming conventions and outright themes from this book!None are lessened by this comparison.
I'm in love.I admit to avoiding this book.
It is living magic in text form, and it has a truly transformative effect on the reader.
I understand that it meanders a bit in the middle section and goes off on a strange-ish quasi-political tangent toward the end, but everything is purposeful and comes together to achieve a singular effect - literally every single sentence is essential and purposeful to the grand narrative.
When I finished it, I immediately felt like re-reading it to catch everything that I might have missed.
It's one of the saddest books I've ever read and is simultaneously one of the most uplifting.
Reading this book feels like falling in love.
What a terrible shame.
I was so set to love this book.
The blurb was good, magical realism is one of my favourite things, the book cover is so pretty, I was so sure I was in for a five star read.
And for about 100 pages everything went well.
Then I realised that despite the beautiful writing style there was nothing for me to like.
The story was thin, the characters barely existed , much of the writing became incomprehensible.
This is definitely a book you either love or hate.
I did not love it.
And the men are no better - you've got the brother who has sex with a 14 year old (and anyone else who'll have him until he kills himself), the adulterer husband, the cousin who likes to have sex with sleeping women, and the other brother who likes to take pictures of his naked little sisters when they're children.
I'll give Crowley credit for his beautiful writing style, setting details, and ability to create the vivid and fully-realized world these characters inhabit.
Or plot building either because by the time I read to page 260-something, there was still nothing to pull the reader along except for the style of writing.
Pequeño es, quizás, la saga familiar de los Bebeagua, una historia de amor algo revuelta, la historia de Fumo Barnable, un personaje anodino que llega de la ciudad para vivir en Bosquedelinde, esa maravilla arquitectónica que proyectó el bisabuelo de Llana Alice, su prometida, y allí encuentra lo Grande (o quizás es al revés, quién sabe): la Magia, en el sentido más amplio de la palabra, un mundo de Hadas que Crowley evoca de manera delicada, de forma velada, que vamos descubriendo poco a poco, mudos de asombro.Grande, Magia, es esta obra: Literatura con mayúsculas: la historia, la prosa de Crowley, elegante y detallada (con una traducción excelente de Matilde Horne), sus evocadoras descripciones que nos acercan a ese mundo oculto, en el límite entre el mundo de los sueños y el de la vigilia, lo real y lo fantástico.El Doctor Zarzales, de una manera quizás algo rebuscada, lo explica de maravilla: La explicación consiste en que el mundo habitado por estos seres no es el mundo que nosotros habitamos.
Or maybe it really is the end...During the course of the story, we jump backward and forward in time and meet past and future Drinkwaters, such as John Drinkwater who built the house as a model of five different architectural styles; his wife Violet Bramble who could see fairies; her illegitimate son Auberon who took up photography so he could capture the beings he thought he saw in his peripheral vision; Daily Alice's sister Sophie, who spends much of her life asleep; Sophie's illegitimate daughter Lilac who is stolen by the fairies and replaced with a changeling; George Mouse who uses hallucinogenic drugs and doesn't really care if his bed partners happen to be relatives.Most of the family's stories are told in the past tense, after they've happened.
I tried to read this but just couldn't slog my way through it. The jacket copy sounded really intriguing, but I didn't get halfway through it. The biggest problem I had with this book was that I felt tried far too hard to be Airy and Phantasmagorical and Mystically Vague and forgot that a plot was actually necessary. It wanders and doesn't actually get anywhere, the prose was overstuffed, and not a single character actually caught my attention. I was disappointed, beause it was a very interesting premise, but the author just didn't pull it off, IMO.
Little, Big is the story fo a family that lives in a house called Edgewood, far to the north of The City.
It follows the family from generation to generation.
Let's just say fairies play a part in the lives of the Drinkwaters and their relatives.The only book I can compare it to at the moment is Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell, but that's more of a subject matter thing.
The writing is very rich and detailed.
While I was reading it, I thought it would be the best book I read that year.
Whatever year that was.
They're given a less complete treatment, but nonetheless permeate the novel, including the "Art of Memory" as practiced by Giordano Bruno in Aegypt, and by Ariel Hawskquill and Auberon Drinkwater here.
The Drinkwaters, the family which the novel revolves around, refer to this larger story which they are just a part of as "The Tale".
It moves slowly, meditatively exploring the lives and thoughts of various members of the Drinkwater clan through several generations (non-chronologically, too - the book includes a family tree, thankfully).
One thing is for sure, if Little,Big is ever filmed, Quentin Tarantino won’t be directing it.
I did get through all 2,599 pages of that epic of narcolepsy, so when I figured how Little, Big was going to pan out, when I could keep my eyes open long enough, I said to myself hey, Mr Once Bitten, stop this nonsense now!For a rhapsodic appreciation of this faery frolick see Mark Monday’s reviewhttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...and for a disembowelment by one who courageously made it to the end, see Michael’s reviewhttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...I'm probably not John Crowley's target audience.
I said it best for NPR! You must read this book: http://lauren-oliver.tumblr.com/post/...
Always approached, keeping hopes high, making disappointments bitter, shaping lives and loves by its inexorable slow progress toward the present: but never, never reached.”“Little, Big” isn’t exactly the kind of book you can read in one sitting or a few.
Since the book meanders back and forth through time, reading ahead really made no difference whatsoever.
(Don’t worry, I won’t give away the ending.) The one thing that really struck me about “Little, Big” is that I really had no concept of where I was in time while reading this book.
But even as I latched onto fascinating moments with particular characters, and some fantastically crafted sentences, I had a looming fear that all this buildup wasn't going to pay off--much like this book sometimes suggests about life.But when the elaborate clockwork of this book finally, finally, FINALLY starts to hum to life (more literally than you suspect!) the payoff is pretty miraculous.
Crowley goes for the wide grin at a life pregnant with possibilities rather than the "wowee!" and derring-do of what "The Princess Bride" might call "the good parts." But this is a book that spends much of its 538 pages subtly telling you why you should like it and what it's doing, and FINALLY showing you that everything you have been looking for has been there the whole time.
Normally when sleep creeps up on me while reading I end up later having to reread the pages that fell between the cracks.
Nothing I read in it with a heavy drowsiness fell through the cracks because through the cracks is where this book comes from.
Emanating from its core, a slippery, pervasive vagueness ripples evenly outward in all directions.
But by the end, this ever-present vagueness reveals itself to be the essential function of the book’s magic.
It is the hidden key lodged in the heart of this long, meandering tale, unlocking its mysteries, without revealing its secrets.
It nips back and forwards in time, hops from one character to another, spanning several generations of a sprawling family as we gradually find out about their tale, the purpose to which the seemingly random and insignificant events, both happy and tragic, turn out to be all part of some grand plan for the future.An ambitious and often confusing work that requires the reader to take the hints and fill in the gaps in order to make more sense of the story.
The lazy, meandering narrative requires a strong prose style to carry it off, to engage the reader whilst the tension slackens and, for the most part, Crowley is up to the job.
He didn't tell you who is supposed to be who, what is supposed to be what straight away as if he thinks we readers are all idiots who have to be told 1+1=2 other than figuring things out on our own.Update: 11/04/2014:It's still a highly imaginative novel about faeries and the mysterious Drinkwater Family, of Edgewood.
And to many readers, who are used to the Fantasy Adventure genre (e.g. Harry Potter) and are expecting to see a magical war between humans and faeries, they will definitely be disappointed.
"The further in you go, the bigger it gets."  Citat iz knjige: o knjizi, o porodici Drinkvoter, o vilama i raznim svetovima u svetovima, veći u manjem, o životu. Nešto kao Markesovih Sto godina samoće, obrnuto u ogledalu. Ako je Markes pisao o porodici u običnom svetu sa notom magijskog, Krouli piše o porodici u magijskom svetu sa notom običnog. Ipak, nije ovo tradicionalna fantastika, nego nešto izmedju. Potpuno jedinstvena, zaslepljujuća knjiga, zahtevna, jedna koja uvlači u sebe (jer što dal
Nešto kao Markesovih Sto godina samoće, obrnuto u ogledalu.
Ako je Markes pisao o porodici u običnom svetu sa notom magijskog, Krouli piše o porodici u magijskom svetu sa notom običnog.
Ipak, nije ovo tradicionalna fantastika, nego nešto izmedju.
Potpuno jedinstvena, zaslepljujuća knjiga, zahtevna, jedna koja uvlači u sebe (jer što dalje ideš, to više i vidiš) svojom inteligencijom i ambicijom i emocijom.
Krouli je napisao remek delo i ja to nisam shvatao sve dok, potpuno nasumično, nisam stekao uvid u širu sliku, kada sam se toliko navikao na roman da se on "samopreveo", odnosno da su se reči romana prevele na jezik sveta koje one i opisuju.
I'll try to explain:This book assumes the existence of another traditional world (Faerie), perhaps another half to our single world.
In this book, the traditional European world of Faerie seems to best express that worldview.Back to the “Tale”.
Many central characters in this book refer to a “Tale” that is being lived in common with the beings from the “other” world.
Or this “Tale” may be a wholly manufactured process from the world of Faerie.
The resolution of that frisson seems central to this “Tale” as well as to this book.
Because every time I've finished it I did so loathing it, but as time passed I always forgot why I loathed it and became slightly convinced that it was me, and not the book, that I hadn't read it carefully enough, or thought about it properly, that there was some thing that could easily be removed that once I figured it out would leave me honestly loving a book I'd only felt like I should love.
Two random points:1) I felt that it was sort of gross that all of the non-white characters are painted as being sort of feral and homeless, or being these fierce sexual creatures (read: primitive), or in most every case servants.
She knew no greater pleasure than that moment of passage into the other place, when her limbs grew warm and heavy and the sparkling darkness behind her lids became ordered and doors opened; when conscious thought grew owl's wings and talons and became other than conscious."In upstate New York, in the wild and unpredictable countryside, there lies a house known as Edgewood.
There are passages that I would read over and over before turning the page because I wanted to relive the way it made me feel.
This is one of those books that never quite leaves you."The things that make us happy make us wise.
This book is like life to me.
It has the feel of all the moments of my life as it unfolds.
It has all the wisdom and subtle instruction by example that is necessary for a rich and various life.
It limns many of the other layers of life that are left out of "realist" fiction, and so it's been called fantasy, and until recently that is the section where you would always find this book.
A huge and endearing family saga that includes the magical and empirical. The first time I tried to read this book, I was recovering from surgery and could not stay awake. After 138 pages I gave up. Two years later I was browsing in Barnes & Noble and saw that Harold Bloom said that the book was his favorite. Give me a break, I thought, but I went back and started again. Being awake made a huge difference, and I ended up loving this book and passing it along.
Perhaps it's because of the generational spanning story and the constant backing and forthing, but I never really 'got' most of the characters - and those ones that I did like spending time with the most, like Smoky and Alice, we sort of abandon for a huge chunk of the meandering middle-portion.
Going back to the meandering middle part - we spent pages and chapters and aeons with Auberon and Sylvie in the City, when most of the stuff I was most interested in - concerning Ariel on one end and Smoky on the other - seemed mentioned and sort of glossed over.Like Ariel's first trip to the House.
Though I suppose outlining how 'epic' the story is would be a decent starting point.
But more importantly, it's epic in the way it recounts the Tale of the Drinkwater family, across four generations, spanning the 20th century, and a seemingly endless cast of characters.
If anything, they merely confused matters further.
However, helpful readers pointed this out to Mr. Crowley, and he threw a few additional crumbs out to us mere partially-confused mortals.
They helped a little.But whether you understand everything in its entirety, or you don't, it doesn't really matter since the actual Tale itself surpassses all of that.
Ήταν αυτός ο μαγικός ντετερμινισμός που κρύβεται πίσω από μια φράση, του μότο όλων όσων ζουν μέσα στον καταπιεστικό κύκλο της «Ίστορίας» (Tale, την ονομάζει ο συγγραφέας, κάτι ανάμεσα στην Διήγηση και Παραμύθι), μια ρήση όπου όλοι φαίνεται πως ασπάζονται με την μέγιστη παραίτηση, με ένα μοιρολατρικό ανασήκωμα των ώμων, χωρίς ποτέ να επαναστατούν (ή όταν το κάνουν, το κάνουν με μεγάλη αποτυχία, δέσμιοι ενός πεπρωμένου που δεν ελέγχουν, σαν μαριονέτες –θύματα ενός αόρατου κουκλοπαίχτη που προγραμματίζει κάθε τους κίνηση) και η φράση αυτή είναι: «Ε, λοιπόν δεν είναι δα και η πρώτη φορά που κάτι σαν κι αυτό, συνέβη στον κόσμο».
Smoky spends his life like many of the men who marry into the Drinkwater/Bramble family, wondering what exactly is going on and not really getting a straight answer from the women-folk.
All the characters seem strangely passive, just accepting that they are part of The Tale and not striving to understand what’s going on.
Not much will have happened while you are gone (and Auberon and Sylvie actually do work together for a while writing scripts for a soap opera in the City).
Unfortunately this one, the book that most consider his masterpiece, falls into the latter category for me.
This is a pretty dull book.
Granted the kind of long, ambling family history that Crowley is writing here is rarely full of slap-bang action, but the pace here is often glacial and while there are, as always, sparkling moments studded throughout the book I just kept waiting for _something to happen_!
I plan to re-read this, hopefully sometime soon, to see if time has changed my opinion of _Little, Big_ since it's been quite a few years since I read it, but I have to admit that given the size of the tome, and the number of other books on my to-read list, I sometimes cringe at the thought.
Ambitious is sometimes just another word for "really, really long," and a good portion of the really, really long books I've read could have done the job better in fewer pages.
Faerie, both the place and the creatures, has selected this family for its "Tale," and the novel follows several generations as it moves closer to the end of this Tale, seemingly on a predestined track.Every event in the 500+ pages ties in to the Tale, but the story moves along at a sleepy pace.
Well, I survived... This is more like 2.5 stars but it was such an odd book that it was hard to actually decide. Sometimes 1, sometimes 2, sometimes 3 - but never 4 or 5.
This is the cover - with the redhaired girl and the bubbles and the boy and the trout - of the book i picked up and put back and got to the door of the store with friends waiting and turned back and went back and bought.And from then on the world was as it would not otherwise have been.This is a tender and endless world of a story, a comfort and a wonder.And i don't feel gooey about this, or wistful about everybody reading it.It is not so much perfect as simply perfect for you or not at all.When Michael was reading it he got to the part with goats and he said you know you just could not write that part without REALLY knowing goats.
_____________________"You think LOVE...
you think love is real...
Love is a myth.""Love is a myth," Grandfather Trout said.
"Like summer.""What?""In winter," Grandfather Trout said, "summer is a myth.
Love is a myth.
I read the last 20 or so pages of this late at night, half-asleep which puts your mind in the same state as the characters (characters getting lost in the woods, forgetting who they are, talking to animals - more in line with the fuzzy dreaming brain).
After seeing reviews of the book on here, I picked it up with great anticipation.
By the end, I didn't know any better.
Why does this end for the characters have special meaning?
Am I supposed to know something about gnosticism, as a previous reviewer mentioned?
I appreciate the entertainment merits of fantasy/science fiction, but after years of Dungeons and Dragons and reading the literature spawned from that (which seemed to always borrow from Lord of the Rings), I grew tired of the genre and more or less walked away from it (and Dungeons & Dragons - but that's another story).
It does not explain away everything, does not give rational cause and effect, maintains the mystery - which most if not all the fantasy literature I have read does do; it eliminates the "other".
I felt reading this book was something I was always looking for in fantasy.
I’ve had Little, Big on my reading list for sooo long, and it definitely sounded like something I could love — a house bordering on the otherworld, rich writing, a whole tangle of family and connections to the otherworld that isn’t understood by all characters, and indeed is revealed slowly to the reader as well… For a while, I was captivated, definitely.
Crowley’s writing is lovely, made me almost smell the rooms of the house, the dew-damp ground outside, etc, etc.In the end, it reminded me a little of my experience with Tam Lin, in that I was waiting for things to happen, waiting for the story to move.
I used to read fantasy as a child, especially The Chronicles of Narnia, and The Story of the Amulet by E Nesbit.
Hence, the title of the book.In an emotional range from deepest despair to wildest exhilaration, the story takes the characters and the reader through all the terrors and hopes of existence.
Though the book is long and only intermittently a page-turner, it passes like a dream.
Reading it is like going to Narnia and living for years only to emerge and find that no time has passed.
It is one of those books, also, that sent me scurrying for other sources to help make sense of what I am reading.
I found myself reading this book from a distance, as opposed to feeling involved and part of the story.
Which again is also apt, because the book is ultimately about a Tale and one lone family whose responsibility it is to spin it by acting out an ages old set of circumstances set forth by outside forces.
It is not a casual read, but thick with allusions to other tales, fables, and myths.
As (he turned Darwin's dense and cautious pages) turtles grow shells, zebras paint themselves in stripes; as men, like babies, grasped and gabbled, these others retreated into learned crafts of undiscoverability and track-covering until the race that planted, made, built, hunted with weapons no longer noticed their presence in our very midst -- except for the discountable tales of goodwives who left dishes of milk on the sill for them, or the drunkard or the madman from whom they could not or chose not to hide.After transcribing this passage, it occurs to me that I've selected the one portion of the book that ventures into science fiction territory.
This is one of those books I so wanted to love and adore; one of those surprise "finds" that none of my current GR friends had read/reviewed. The reviews on this made me salivate - I was so excited...I couldn't even get past page five.I fail as a reader of magical realism.Bummer.
This is an intricate, moving, funny, warm, wondrous, delicate filigree of a novel.It's a family saga over the course of a century, set largely in a house and estate in upstate New York called Edgewood.
Ariel Hawksquill, a memory-witch, seeks to unravel the mysteries of Edgewood in the mansions of her mind, while Smoky's poor old friend George Mouse and Smoky's love-torn son try to escape them in New York.It's difficult to convey the sprawling themes of this generous and luminous fantasy (deeply immersed, as John Clute put it, in A Midsummer Night's Dream), but it carries the reader gently into a place of wonder.
or books.book one is edgewood.two is brother north wind's secret (where i'm at now)3 is old law farm4 the wild wood5 the art of memory6 the fairies' parliament.my edition also has that stuff at the back like they do these days, an interview w/crowley looking cleaned up and bearded, nice clean white shirt, outdoor setting...more from some big brain person, a take on the story and what it means.i'm about ready to give up on this one again...for a time or maybe permanent who knows.it's...interesting and all...but i feel like why can't they just come out and get it on?
and I'd say I have missed a lot on my first read!
Tsk tsk!Anyway, if you have not read this yet, you miss half, no scratch that!
Except perhaps that you would not be able to enjoy THAT REALLY GOOD book in the fantasy genre.The language,the prose, the tension that kept on building up.
And kept on building!
It's like being afloat in an unchartered waters in utter darkness!I know I suck at this, but you get what I'm saying?
When you're just there floating in an uncharterd waters, darkness everywhere, and the constant rocking of the boat you're in.
