https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/159882.The_Forest_People
There is a disturbing scene of the whipping of a thieve, (who is portrayed by the author as lazy, and it is kind of implied that the man is deserving of punishment) with thorny branches, yet the author doesn't seem to be shocked at all, and goes on talking almost poetically about how the BaMbuti solve their problems in a non-official, informal and communal way.The only time Turnbull expresses sympathy for a harrowed being takes place, when he describes the cruel treatment animals receive at the hands of the BaMbuti.
The people of the forest say it is a chameleon, telling them that there is honey nearby.
For them, it is a good world.""How long they have lived in the forest we do not know, though it is a considered opinion that they are among the oldest inhabitants of Africa...
when a boy almost too young to walk has come along, knelt down, and given two puffs that have sent the flames leaping upward.""I was the only one whose feet made any noise; the others ran so lightly that they barely touched the ground but rather seemed to skim along just above it..."" 'The forest is a father and mother to us," he said, "and like a father or mother it gives us everything we need - food, clothing, shelter...
Turnbull's memoir of his time living among the BaMbuti pygmies of the Congo.
Their psychological intimacy with the forest is made quite clear when Turnbull takes Kenge out of it, into the mountains.
He struggles a long time with the treelessness of the plains and the mountains, is baffled by snow, etc, but ultimately comes to this realization, which is quite nice:"I was wrong.
That's pretty cool.Ultimately, it would have been cooler if Turnbull had focused on some interesting aspects of the pygmies' cultural knowledge of the forest, but it was still nice to just sense this intimacy grounding the pygmies' character and actions.
Popular anthropology, descriptive, certainly a bit dated. In fact, its idealizing picture is probably quite false and a reflection more of the author's own neurotic obsessions than of his scholarly habits. Turnbulll, though a student of the great E. E. Evans-Pritchard, was quite an eccentric. There is a now a biography of Turnbull, by Roy Grinker, called In The Arms Of Africa.Here is a review if Grinker, plus thebfirst chapterhttp://www.nytimes.com/books/00/12/10...
However, I was pleasantly surprised by how lively the book actually was.One of the things I loved most was the vibrant, humorous, and detailed life of the Bambuti pygmies that Turnbull paints for his readers.
Turnbull describes the ups and downs of life for the Bambuti in such detail that you can't help but become captivated by the story.
All in all the book stresses how precious life really is, and how the Bambuti make the most of what they have in the world around them.
One of my favorite ethnographies, so glad my professor made me read it!
I read this book years ago in a college Anthropology course but could never remember the name of it, until seeing it on Goodreads tonight!This was the first true Anthropology book I'd ever written. I was blown away by the vividness of the BaMbuti world, captivated by their reverence for nature, and impressed with their structure and ritual. I've thought about this book many times over the years and have always wondered if we've done the forest people a disservice by entering their world. Nevertheless I was grateful for this brief glimpse in to it.
Altogether fascinating and readable account of an anthropologist's time spent with the BaMbuti people -- Pygmies -- though certainly by now outdated and perhaps written with inadequate scientific distance.Turnbull tells of a culture by and large isolated from modern society, with a complex relationship with non-BaMbuti villagers and a deep identification with the forest.
(Frankly, if he'd stuck solely to the question of BaMbuti relations to the village, he still would have had a surfeit of material.)Although Turnbull clearly had an unusual level of access to and comfort with the BaMbuti, at times I question whether that works against him in his writing.
Colin Turnbull’s book The Forest People takes us on a fascinating voyage into the world of the Mbuti Pygmies, who live in the Ituri rainforest of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
“They were a people who had found in the forest something that made their life more than just worth living, something that made it, with all its hardships and problems and tragedies, a wonderful thing full of joy and happiness and free of care.” In another book, Turnbull mentioned Father Longo, a Catholic missionary who refused to preach to the Pygmies, because they had no word for evil.
On the hand, it does read like an adventure book, and by the end of it you feel like you too went and lived with the Pygmies.
And yet, of course no one does that much, and talking about hunting is not the same as hunting, and literally 90% of the events and activities he describes are gendered.
Second thing, was that I feel that the book was supposed to make us feel inspired by the spirituality, and how we've been too modernized to be happy and grateful for simple things, as people should.
This book led me to the understanding of the world that I could never imagine before.
To live in with the people who literally had different culture, yet I also realise it is not as easy as it is written hence you are an outsider.
BaMbuti Pygmies are also just people.
They are just perceived wrongly by the people who don’t live in the forest—People who don’t understand them.
Collin Turnbul successfully delivered the world of the forest people (Pygmies’ way of life), as well put himself as part of them and pulled out the ethnocentrism by understanding their way of lives from their point of view.
The women and girls make themselves extra beautiful by oiling up and getting shiny and also doing things like painting stars on their butts.
Then they go around whipping the boys and men they like.
Men who have been whipped are expected to visit the women's hut at night.
Going all the way and spending the night means staying in the women's hut for the rest of the ceremony which is, like, a month, and also basically means you have to marry so typically they just flirt a little and then leave again.But the whole book is filled with stuff like that, that was just my favorite bit.
Last year I heard a really interesting radio documentary about the author Colin M Turnbull; educated at Westminster school he then served in the navy during the war, in the 1950's he spent three years living with the Bambuti pygmy's of the Belgian Congo before moving to America and lecturing, he lived with his African American partner in a American town where interacial gay relationships were unheard of, his partner died of aids and he buried his soul in a grave next to him before becoming a budhist, he died in 1994 of aids related illness.
He humanises the people and their fascinating rituals associated with their worship of the forest.
The relationship with the villagers as well was fascinating, the villagers feeling they own the pygmy's who then dissapear into the forest to hunt and then come back and 'steal' from the villagers.
I just finished a wonderful book, Colin Turnbull’s The Forest People.
A tribe member might demand everyone go hunting with him (it takes a large group to capture/kill the forest animals) and people may go, or they may not.
People may start full of energy and ambition, promising to help neighbors and build big houses with multiple rooms.
If life doesn’t seem quite right, the closest they get to wishing it was better is to return to the forest where life is always good, to a camp surrounded by the depths of the jungle, where outsiders are afraid to go.
But the forest isn’t their god, it’s merely where life is always good.Hmmm.
British researcher Turnbull's classic account of life among a tribe of Pygmies in the 1950s.
(And Turnbull, again through careful observation, is especially good at disentangling Pygmy behavior among the villagers with whom they have a longstanding symbiotic, but not terribly respectful, relationship, with how they comport themselves in the forest.) Also striking: Although its members emerge as individuals, with discrete personalities, the tribe is truly a collective, and members recognize its survival as more important than the wishes of any one individual -- just as they credit their well-being to the beneficence of "the forest," which/who is essentially indistinguishable from their god.
For extra credit, seek out "Mbuti Pygmies of the Ituri Rainforest," the amazing Smithsonian Folkways CD that compiles Turnbull's classic field recordings of the tribe's music, which is central to their culture.
It reads like a novel, not a diary or journal.
The author lived for three years with them in the Ituri Forest in northwestern Belgian Congo (later Zaire, now DR of Congo).
His affection for them is immediately apparent, and his intimate descriptions of individuals allow the reader to enjoy the characters in the book and their lives.However, there are times when either the author is taking the mickey out of you, or else the Mbuti are taking the mickey out of him.
Good for a few chuckles, but not believable.In any case, you won't be disappointed reading this book.
There are so many good quotes I want to be able to share, but for now, here's just one to try and make you understand why I love these people so much."There, in the tiny clearing, splashed with silver, was the sophisticated Kenge, clad in bark cloth, adorned with leaves, with a flower stuck in his hair.
He was all alone, dancing around and singing softly to himself as he gazed up at the treetops.
Now Kenge was the biggest flirt for miles, so, after watching a while, I came into the clearing and asked, jokingly, why he was dancing alone.
'But I'm not dancing alone,' he said.
Turnbull lived with the BaMbuti pygmies and gives a detailed and intimate look at their world.
He was one of the few people at that time who was able to live with and study the BaMbuti without being chaperoned by the neighboring non-pygmy villagers, and was able to learn much about the pygmies without viewing them through their neighbors' biases.
The portrait he paints is of a people who are intimately entwined with the forest they live in, and of the complexities of a small group society.
Only once in my recollection have I ever put a book aside unfinished (Tristram Shandy), but I nearly made it twice with this one.
The only thing that kept me reading till the end was the fact that it was for a book club I've just joined and I felt compelled to finish - especially as it's my first book with them.What didn't I like?
Nothing inspired me to turn the next page and I found myself skim-reading chunks of it.That said, I didn't hate it and the odd chapters made me smile, but I just couldn't muster much enthusiasm for the book as a whole sadly.
Turnbull was a good publicist for the BaMbuti, and made sure their view of things was given a fair hearing. One interesting point is that the neighboring BaNtu farmers believed that the Pygmies had cursed the forest land so that it lost fertility if converted to farmland. Of course, forest land is always nutrient-poor. A forest is a bootstrapping system that supplies its own nutrients, mostly, so naturally the land lost fertility if you removed the nutrient sources. But it served the BaMbuti's purposes to encourage the 'curse' idea--they apparently became quite masterly at keeping outsiders out of their forest.
This was amazing! It gave me a real feel for being in the forest with the Mbuti; I am now nostalgic for what I haven't had. What's distinctive about this ethnography is that Turnbull lived in the forest with the people and talks about them as individuals, as neighbors, not as a scholar would about a culture he's inspecting like a bug. I loved getting to know them (of course, through Turnbull's eyes and biases), seeing the variation in their behavior just as I would if I were looking at my own neighbors, my own town.Crucial to read! Axiomatic!
This book read like a memoir instead of a scientific ethnography WHICH I LOVEDBut I can't help but keep in mind the criticisms of this book when I read contemplating the fact that turnbull was romanticizing the Pygmies and their culture. And that's a problem when looking at an ethnography.With that being said, great book! I still highly recommend!
Beautiful Ethnography
An anthropology about the authors experiences when living with a Pygmy tribe. Very interesting and informative.
Mbuteilla ei ole johtajia vaan he päättävät asioistaan demokraattisesti.Metsästäjät sopivat aamulla yhdessä, mitä riistaa sinä päivänä metsästetään ja mihin päivän metsästysretki kohdistuu.
Neuvotteluun osallistuneet metsästäjät ymmärtävät, että yhteinen mielipide on metsän tahto, eikä sitä voi metsän henkiä loukkaamatta rikkoa.Kuten mbutien metsästysretki, jokainen modernikin projekti jakaantuu yleensä suunnitteluvaiheeseen ja toteutusvaiheeseen.
Vaikka vaiheet joskus ovatkin osin päällekkäisiä, projektin edistymisen kannalta on oleellista että kaikkea ei koko ajan kyseenalaisteta vaan yhdessä sovittuihin päätöksiin sitoudutaan.
Henkilö ei esimerkiksi kyseenalaista päätöksiä kokouksessa, jossa asia on esillä, vaan alkaa pian kokouksen päätyttyä kyseenalaistaa päätöksiä.Mbutit ratkaisevat sitoutumisongelman irrationaalisen uskonnollisen rakenteen - metsän tahdon - avulla - tehtyään ensin päätöksen rationaalisin perustein.".
I loved the first ten odd chapters i.e. the bits about how the pygmies lived a nomadic life in the forest and how they went about their daily routines.
Without trying to spoil the book, it amazed me that there was no specialisation amongst the pygmies, and that everyone took part in everything i.e. hunting, child rearing etc.
I've always believed that this is a better way of living than the way we are forced the specialise from a very early age in our so called 'civilised' society i.e. you are told at school that you will become a doctor, lawyer etc.
This is one of those books that might hit a raw nerve.
Works of anthropology are difficult because they become entangled with cultural norms, issues of idealization/demonization and the seemingly constantly shifting and touchy/sensitive topics which pertain to books of this sort.
I've seen a few reviews here which indicate that this is a book of "popular anthropology" and essentially a work of entertainment.
However, what makes this book a classic perhaps is its readability and immersive nature.
I am not an anthropologist or an expert on the Pygmies of the Congo, so I cannot ultimately be a judge on such issues or on Turnbull's anthropological approach.
Turnbull has somehow wrought an account that is at once intimate and aloof. His obvious affection toward the People of the Forest is often bogged down by a litany of names that are constantly overlapping and interweaving, distracting the reader from the more important elan of the Pygmies."The Forest People" is at its best when it's homing in on a single moment rather than insisting on an exhaustive account of everyone present.But if you can suffer Turnbull's laundry lists, you'll be rewarded with a vivid account of the People of the Forest.
Read for a Cultural Anthro class. Given the time-frame, the "white savior" lens is to be expected, but still distracted me from the actual population being described. I found myself torn away several times to watch youtube videos of the Ituri forest people. I highly recommend this approach.
The play by play descriptions of the tribe is quite dry at times. I found myself fighting through a couple of chapters. The language is also quite outdated, but it's also an older account. Overall, not bad.
Read for an introduction to anthropology course for college.
