https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47380.Sexual_Behavior_in_the_Human_Male
This book reminds me that we need to update sexual attitude; we have schizophrenic attitude to it; we need to take sex out of closet.
As long as it is dealt with in the current confusion of ignorance and denial that corrupts intellectual honesty and human dignity.It is very shocking that how little acknowledgment this book receives in modern times.
It would be safe to say that this book was the first major credible investigation undertaken by any serious scientist on commercial scale in sexology.Whether or not you like Kinsey's work but once in a while you must begin learning to accept research paper with scientific attitudes and activities, without moral, social, or aesthetic evaluation
I didn't read the entire book from cover to cover (as there is a lot of statistical information) but this book contains a wealth of information, and as well speaks to how much information is presently missing from general society.
It makes me angry how much disinformation is out there and perhaps if people could openly talk about truths of life we wouldn't have so many problems with society...so a huge thank you to Kinsey for standing up at a time when most people were afraid to hear the truth.
This study is most renowned for its shedding of light on homosexuality in the human male, of which it claims ~37% of human men have had one or more homosexual encounters in their entire lifetime.What also must be taken into account is the sample size, the subjects he used, and that these subjects may have been withholding information due to the stigma of homosexuality at the time.Still controversial to this day and groundbreaking, the reader has to take the information in this scientific experiment with a grain of salt and to have an analytical mind about the information in The Kinsey Report.
The knowledge that this book existed interested me in watching "Kinsey" with Liam Neeson and watching the movie interested me in finding a copy of the book. Luckily I got an original 1948 copy for posterity but there's some pretty fascinating stuff in here. Don't know that I'll ever actually "read" it cover to cover but I like skimming through.Funny all the reviewers are women - I think we all could learn a thing or two here.
While it can be argued whether or not this book is relevant in today's modern world, I do find it's an horrible underrated study on human sexual behavior.
I used this book, as well as it's counter part, for my pedagogi exams in order to give my main sources a stronger foundation to stand on.
El Informe Kinsey fue el resultado de un estudio científico publicado en dos libros, Comportamiento sexual del hombre (1948) y  Comportamiento sexual de la mujer (1953).
divine
Liat filmnya. Melihat caranya memandang hubunga sexualitas dalam kacamata behavioralisme. Menghebohkan metode penelitian dan hasil yang diajukan ke publik.
See my review for Sexual Behavior in the Human Female.
I possibly own the oldest edition of this book.
