https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22551809-the-road-to-character
He's describing people of the Twentieth Century, public personalities like Dwight Eisenhower and Dorothy Day. Later, Brooks spools backward to George Eliot, Samuel Johnson, and even St. Augustine, but early on, his examples come from living memory.
Eisenhower was so fixated on his moral core that he slept through major trends of his Presidency, including the dawning civil rights movement.I stopped taking Brooks seriously when he conceded that Eisenhower, for all his virtues, nevertheless abandoned his wartime mistress, Kay Summersby, with a mere letter.
Early on, Brooks wishes somebody would write a book about how Americans' changing experience with death reflects Americans' changing public morality.
Thank you to Random House for sending me an advanced copy in exchange for an honest review.PLOT - In The Road to Character, New York Times Columnist David Brooks profiles a range of people spanning several eras that he considers to have a strong sense of character.
He ends his book with a look at our current society and how technology has shaped our idea of self and character.LIKE- I was most drawn to Brooks observations of current trends, which comprises a small portion of The Road to Character.
"Our external self wants to build, create, produce, and discover things.
Wants high status and victories."Our internal self wants to embody certain moral qualities -"serene inner character, build a solid sense of right and wrong -not only do good -but be good.
Wants to love intimately -sacrifice self in the service of others to live in obedience to some transcendent truth, to have a cohesive inner soul that honors creation and one's own possibilities."This little book is packed filled with value!!!!
He suggests that finding and beginning and pursuing this outside goal may lead to satisfaction and happiness when focus on oneself cannot.
Pursuit of this outside goal will lead to “eulogy virtues.”What struck me about the examples that Brooks provides of people who have exhibited the eulogy virtues is that they were of either sex, and came from every century, every background (wealthy, middle class, or poor), every race, every political stripe.
David Brooks, columnist for The New York Times and author of this and several other books, has become a baal teshuva (Orthodox Jew). I knew that going into the book, but because it draws from such varied sources, I’m not sure I would have figured it out on my own, but the values here are definitely Jewish. The bulk of the book is made of short biographies of exemplary people, but before I go into those, I must explain the viewpoint of the book overall.The very first chapter draws from  The Lonel
The biggest surprise was that the chapter I ended up liking best was about Dorothy Day, founder of the Catholic Worker.
My personal political philosophy is “live a conservative life personally; have a liberal attitude toward others.” It’s not surprising it comes from David Brooks, who is considered the conservative that the liberal media likes, or, in his own words, a conservative in the tradition of Edmund Burke and not the Tea Party.I imagine that this is one of those books that people will either love or hate.
David Brooks calls for a cultural shift away from the "Big Me" meritocracy of seeking status and climbing the social ladder, and back in the direction of modesty, self-effacement, and public virtue. Less Kardashians and more regular old good people who lead lives of quiet self-respect, who are secure in their own inner character, and who don't have to broadcast their good deeds to feel important or to get ahead. It's good cultural criticism from one of our finest public intellectuals.
One might say reading this book is a "character building experience"—as it is long, dry, and painful.
Brooks discusses the personal weaknesses of 14 individuals from history, how they dealt with moral issues, and the guidelines they strove (or failed) to live by.Attempting to illustrate his points through the lens of past lives seems like a cop out to me.
Honestly, this book was mostly about suffering and it did make me consider and question the depths of my own suffering in a new, and esoteric way._____Quotes like this one:"In the process of subordinating ourselves to the institutions we inhabit, we become who we are.
His perspective is in general retrospective, aiming at the reestablishment of what he believes we need to recover, rather than looking forward and anticipating how we might use or craft what he sees as current trends in such a way as to develop the sort of balance he seeks.I think Brooks’ final chapter is particularly good, not because I agree with everything he has to say, but because it provides as clear and cogent a summary of his argument as seems possible.
While I do not share David Brooks' political views, I do like this book.
He is cogent on the lack of deep attention to moral development in our current culture.
Brooks writes that the narcissism -the me generation- is the new norm and drives the resume culture.
It would be interesting to consider the impact of the market culture as opposed to a market economy on the decline of moral development.
When one views oneself principally as a 'brand' rather than principally a citizen or person embedded in relations, we lose our moral bearing.
I hope the book inspires more conversation.
How can you not love an author who pays tribute to football great Johnny Unitas and Victorian novelist George Eliot with equal warmth and enthusiasm?Still, as I leafed through these charming pages, I began to feel faintly uneasy.
To give you an idea of what I mean, here's my impression of how David Brooks would evaluate Hamlet and his Uncle Claudius in The Road To Character:****"There was a time when leaders understood that the public good outweighed their personal issues.
Hamlet is a show off who lacks the character of his uncle, just like Joe Namath!"****That David Brooks, I tell you.
This book describes the journey toward character from several different historical characters. Each chapter David Brooks shares a different person's story. His desire is to point out the different thought processes about character from other time periods... specifically moral realism versus moral romanticism. He develops an argument toward the imbalance within our own time period. Definitely worth a read... even if just for the great stories.
Thus, his motivation for studying people throughout history who made an effort to build their character and follow a moral code of conduct that wouldn't change based on circumstance, their desires, or the fashion of the day.The book starts with an eloquent introduction.
Listening to the audio version of this book I found myself furiously scribbling notes, wanting to capture everything in the introduction as it seemed so relevant.Each of the people Brooks highlights in his book as examples of taking the road to character are flawed, as we all are (at one point while listening my husband turned to me and said "Is this a book about people with good character or bad character?!") This is where the book really loses momentum.
Quick take on David Brooks' *Road to Character*: sort of sad we live in a society that needs this book. But we need this book. The real trick? Getting those who *need* to read it to *want* to read it.Watch for my review in The Hedgehog Review.
Brook's book seeks to explore how Adam 2, eulogy-focused qualities are developed by telling stories of individuals through history and how they got certain qualities of character (for example, restraint, or dignity).But Brooks is a painfully poor philosopher, and I just could not get past it.
Take for example, this in a story of Ida Eisenhower, mother of Dwight: "In the culture of that time, people also believed that manual labor was a school for character."Maybe, but isn't it more fair to say there wasn't a lot of automation in Abilene Kansas in the early 1900s?
There is no doubt that Brooks is most successful when he takes what he knows and what he has read and draws general conclusions and insights about life.
Sure, Brooks throws tidbits of insightful commentary throughout, but I wish he had relied less on biographical recountings and more on his own ideas.
I think that would have made a more interesting book.My only other complaint, though it is minor, is that there is a lot of religious language in here.
I wish Brooks had dropped those familiar words and come up with a more novel and descriptive way to illustrate these concepts.Still, The Road to Character was an interesting read.
The Road to Character was hit or miss, with a slow pace and sometimes long-winded chapters.But . . . when it worked, it worked. Author Brooks focuses on a cross-section of notable individuals - I especially liked the chapters on Frances Perkins, Dwight Eisenhower, A. Philip Randolph, and George Marshall - and delves into their backgrounds to examine what established and defined their traits / moral strength. Not all included were saints, but many generally worked for the greater good in a larger cause. Brooks' opinion on when things started to shift in the U.S. was also interesting.
This book is basically a collection of essays about people from the past whom he admires.
They all have interesting lives and much to learn from, but there's no need for Brooks to dumb it down, or simplify it, or view their different lives in the view of a single theme.Here are some of his main ideas (some of which are more inspiring than others)- Everybody is naturally bad and needs to undergo hard work in order to become virtuous.- Repress yourself in order to be good.- You are part of society.
I very much like and respect David Brooks; however, this book is not one of his shining accomplishments.
He explores the development of inner character and a true calling in life to Adam II behaviors by examining the lives and character development of Frances Perkins and her stance for workers rights after the Triangle Shirt Factory fire, Ida Stover Eisenhower who sought an education and her son Dwight and what led to Ike's fortitude and ultimate success, Dorothy Day and her work with the suffering and poor through Catholic Worker, George Catlett Marshall and his logistical planning during WWII, A.
I think I read this book at just the right time of my life.
I have been taking a break from my career and reflecting on what my life is all about.
I think the philosophy he puts forward and the examples of people he cites will not all be for everyone (they didn't all hit the mark for me).
But there were enough people I admired - George Eliot, Frances Perkins, George C Marshall (now, there was a surprise!) and of course Katharine Graham - and enough insights in the book for it to really speak to me and for me to take meaning from it.

While I do admire the amount of research David Brooks must have put into writing this book, I simply do not agree with his conclusion. And I rather disliked the condescending tone of the book. Thanks for the advice Dave, but no thanks. I've found my own road to character and it suits me just fine.
That may have been because I was listening to the book rather than reading it.The book leaned on Christianity and spirituality a bit more than I could appreciate.
That segment also delved into Bayard Rustin who is someone I would like to learn more about and is part of my peace movement and pacifist leaning.I have tried to live my life to match my values and really would like to have understood this book a bit more.
David Brooks several times in the book has list of values and aspects of life that count heavily for people.
Brooks has justly critiqued a pervasive view of the individual self as authentic and good--moving toward what he calls the "crooked timber" school that sees people as basically messed up.
He doesn't need to link the Big Me to a pass-the-buck belief in structural problems (which he explicitly links to racism).
I hope it will come through soon.Meantime, David Brooks, I'm sorry you're getting a lot of flak in the whole very public but trying not to be public but also sort of needing to be public because of your vocation come-to-Jesus.
Summary: David Brooks explores the issue of character development through the hard-won pursuit of moral virtue, exemplified in the moral quests of people as diverse as Augustine and Bayard Rustin, Frances Perkins and Dorothy Day.I’ve long followed The New York Times op-ed pieces of David Brooks.
What I appreciate in what Brooks does is he engages us in a public conversation that includes both people of faith and those who would not identify with any faith but care about the moral character of our lives and public life.
I’ve also become more aware that, like many people these days, I have lived a life of vague moral aspiration— vaguely wanting to be good, vaguely wanting to serve some larger purpose, while lacking a concrete moral vocabulary, a clear understanding of how to live a rich inner life, or even a clear knowledge of how character is developed …” An interesting opening gambit.
Before he begins his biographical sketches, Brooks notes: “But we are morally inarticulate.
Brooks extrapolates from Day’s life to declare that “In the first place, they (people like Day) just show up.
He argues that this shift of balance in societal values has made it increasingly difficult to practice proficiency of the latter, as we now have to “spend more time, energy and attention on the external…climb towards success and we have less time, energy and attention to devote to the internal world."Brooks portrays these figures not as exemplars of morality, but rather as deeply flawed individuals who each took unique paths to the “road to character.” He demonstrates that they all shared an awareness of their own limitations and vulnerabilities, and commonly engaged in the harsh internal struggle to rise above their weaknesses.
I am extremely glad and feel somewhat validated that someone has finally taken on the subject in a book like this.Brooks examines these characteristics by looking in depth at about nine people in history who have exemplified 'character' - Frances Perkins (social reformer and Sec. of Labor for Franklin Roosevelt); Dorothy Day (of Catholic Worker fame); Dwight Eisenhower (commander of Allied Forces in Europe, and former US President); Gen. George Marshall (Commander of US Forces in WWII and Sec. of State for the "Marshall Plan"); St. Augustine; civil rights leaders A.
I delighted in the way Brooks divided chapters according to topics and used historical figures' stories to illustrate them.
(My only real beef with the book is the lack of women portrayed within it.) You'll learn about self-conquest by studying Eisenhower, struggle with Dorothy Day, self-mastery, George C.
At the end of the book, Brooks offers readers 15 points both in an attempt to summarize and learn from.
And by a magic alchemy these victories turn weakness into joy.
The stumbler doesn't aim for joy.
Joy is a byproduct experienced by people who are aiming for something else.
Some of the biographies were interesting, but several parts were dull.The author talks about several famous people, giving examples of their work and contributions to society.The author divides humans into two selfs: Adam 1 the traits that appear on a resume, Adam 2 the traits that appear on a tombstone or eulogy.Adam 2 traits/ideas include the following:humility, quiet your own egostruggle against sin (selfishness, prejudice, insecurity, cruelty)become more disciplined, considerate and lovingone can achieve a good life through their vocationAPPRECIATION:Two examples showed that one should not do things in hopes of being appreciated.
So it's difficult to do a critical reading of his books.
Mr. Brooks is not so impressed with those who have replaced the morality/theology/philosophy of old times with their self-contradicting law of subsidized individualism.
I'm of the belief that there are laws that are external and independent to man that, while not necessarily enforceable, are disobeyed at our peril.
They are the unchanging morals and laws that shape us into characters capable of having a meaningful life.
It's not a perfect book, but it's one of the best I have read in a long time.
