https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25103.World_s_End
A reality storm is coming! Look for some safe place! Creative Team:Writer: Neil GaimanIllustrators: Mike Allred, Gary Amano, John Watkiss, Mark Buckingham, Shea Anton Pensa, Tony Harris, Vince Locke, Steve Leialoha, Dick Giordano, Michael Zulli, Alec Stevens & Bryan TalbotCovers: Dave McKeanLetterer: Todd Klein EMPERORS AGAIN, CITIES AGAIN, BUT THIS TIME ALONG WITH… GRAVEdIGGERS, FAIRIES & SHIPS  Pictures and word-balloons don’t mean dumb. That first quote isn’t from the pages of the vo
WOW!!!Maybe my only humble critique is that when the Master King did a comment about how The Sandman is a comic book series suggested to mature readers and that if the readers wouldn’t understand the stories, they should get back to Spider-Man, X-Men or Fantastic Four.
And Two, I wonder if he ever heard of materials such as Spider-Man: Kraven’s Last Hunt, X-Men: God Loves, Man Kills or even a single issue like #267 “A Small Loss” from Fantastic Four?I love DC AND Marvel, AND Indy comic book houses too, so I don’t like when it’s made a direct comment attacking the competition without need.
The visual styles are pleasantly varied, and many of the individual images are haunting and memorable.The tales are presented to us through a Decameron style frame story: a diverse group of people gather at an inn for shelter and safety, and tell stories to pass the time.
This time, though, they are not avoiding the plague but a “reality storm,” an event that disrupts the lives of people living in many historical periods and different dimensions, and consequently the tellers of these are an extraordinarily diverse group.I particularly enjoyed “A Tale of Two Cities” (a “Mr. Gaheris,” traveling through his own city, finds himself in a dreaming city similar yet different from his own) for artist Alec Stevens’ modernistic, one-dimensional images which give to Gaheris’ cities a contemporary yet dreamlike reality.
And so we get our first taste of the infamous House of Mystery, the harbor at World's End, where safety and drink in the limbo between dimensions can be bought with the price of a tale.I'm pretty fond of these short stories, but perhaps not as fond as I was the first time I read them.
They're solid and thought-provoking, but not overly so.I suppose what really got to me was the end of the volume.
Oh lordy that was great.
Sometimes the art gets it right, and this one?
It gets it right.*shiver*I LOVE great foreshadowing.
A group of strangers all end up in an old, hidden inn/tavern to seek shelter during a storm.
The tavern is packed with people from different realities and timelines (including non-human creatures from Faerie and myth), and the only thing to do while they wait for the "reality storm" to end is swap spooky stories by the fire -- personal stories, mostly, or ones they'd heard first-hand.
Each short story is drawn by a different artist, including Mark Buckingham (Fables) and the great Mike Allred (Madman) who, with his Jack Kirby-esque "pop art" style, is the one comic artist where I'll instantly buy anything he's involved in.This is definitely one of my favorite Sandman volumes, and one of my favorite Gaiman works in general.
A couple is driving at night from L.A. to Chicago, when they are caught by a Blizzard in July, crash the car and end up at the Inn of the End of the World.It's a popular technique since the Decameron and the Canterbury Tales, up to the more recent Hitchhiker Guide to the Galaxy or the lyrics to Hotel California: Last thing I remember, I was Running for the door I had to find the passage back to the place I was before 'Relax' said the night man, 'We are programmed to receive.
What do you get when you wrap stories inside of stories featuring people in the stories telling stories about the people telling stories in the other stories?
Neil Gaiman at his Neil Gaimaniest.
This series continues to delight (and occasionally confuse), even when, or perhaps especially when, it veers away from what is loosely the main narrative.
This volume is no exception, and we can go ahead and add World’s End to the list of fantastical and imaginary places I desperately want to visit, which is extensive and shows no signs of shrinking, unlike me in anything that even approaches what might be described as cool weather (Rivendell, incidentally, tops the list, I think, followed by Hogwarts).
(Bonus points for some early Mark Buckingham art, though it's ink, not pencils.)
Así tenemos historias de elfos y hadas, de marineros y monstruos, de presidentes, de la muerte y los actos fúnebres, y más; Cada historia me ha gustado, y aunque a Sandman no se le ve mucho la cara, puedo decir que este es uno de mis tomos favoritos.
Además el arte es asombroso...Y tiene un final algo misterioso que me hacer querer leer pronto el siguiente tomo, ¡ya casi en el final!
Once again the Endless retreat to the corners of the stage, making way for a cast of characters gathered at the Inn at Worlds’ End to tell tales to while away the time during a fierce storm.
At the end of the embedded stories, we are brought back to the Worlds’ End, where the travelers are treated to a sublime spectacle in the sky, which illuminates the previous discussion of death and commemoration in unexpected ways and really highlights the skills which Gaiman applies to this complex story.
It was his thoughts and praise on Neil Gaiman and his work on Sandman that would make it worthwhile to pick this trade, even if you already have the issues that comprised this arc.
King wrote in his introduction that Gaiman’s work was a filling meal even if it was served in bite sized chunks in a short story collection like this trade or as longer arc that could be read as a single graphic novel.I agree, any work by Gaiman, be it a novel, a short story collection or a monthly comic is a satisfying read.
...sam početak me strašno podsjetio na jednu epizodu Dylan Doga,"Krčma na kraju svijeta".Nakon malo 
3 and 1/2 starsThe blurb on the back states that this volume is in the tradition of The Canterbury Tales, but The Decameron is a more apt allusion.
The storytellers aren't in a villa waiting out the Black Death; but they are in an inn, seeking refuge from a mysterious storm (or storms) that has deposited each one of them there: perhaps they too are facing Death.I wasn't engrossed in any of the stories until I arrived at the tale of a necropolitan (yep, he lives and works in a necropolis).
I'm withholding that 1/2 star only because I wasn't truly engaged until more than halfway through.
One of the top three in the series so far for sure. (In my own opinion anyway)
“Is there any person in the world who does not dream? Who does not contain within them worlds unimagined?”
I didn't think I would like this collection as well once I realized that it was more short stories or whatever.
But luckily my contradictory nature kicked in again!
These stories worked fairly well for me.
I still miss my peeps, but a few made appearances here, so it wasn't all wasted.
What I especially liked was the story-within-a-story thing going on.
It was done artfully (for lack of a better word).
We're not talking Boccaccio here or anything, but similar to that or, as Stephen King says in the Introduction, to Chaucer.As always some of the stories are better than others.
I wish this story never ended. This time I could forgive even the lack of Morpheus.
A reality storm brings people from different times and worlds together at an inn at the end of the world to wait out the storm. This volume tells the tales of these travelers.
Ο καλύτερος τόμος της σειρά έρχεται προς το τέλος της σειράς, ύστερα από αλλεπάλληλους, εξαιρετικούς τόμους.Ιστορίες μέσα σε ιστορίες, αφηγήσεις τρομακτικές, άλλοτε μυστηρίου, άλλοτε ονειρικές, μερικές ανακατασκευές κλασικών μύθων - όλες τους λαμβάνουν χώρα στο πανδοχείο στο Τέλος του Κόσμου.Το World's End έγινε ο αγαπημένος μου τόμος αυτής της εξαιρετικής σειράς και σίγουρα μπαίνει στην δεκάδα με τα αγαπημένα μου κόμικς. Α, ξέχασα: μπορεί να διαβαστεί αυτόνομα, ως ένα δημιούργημα ξέχωρο από τους άλλους τόμους. Μπορείτα να το δώσετε σε κάποιον φίλο/-ή σας και να δείτε στο βλέμμα τους τα μαστορέματα του Γκέιμαν.
None of the travellers know how they got their and they find out that the pub is at the end of all worlds.
Something bad has happened and it is rippling across reality, but the World's End pub is the safest place to be because it exists in all realities and is constantly be created.This is where it becomes intersting with different stories lasting about an issue each with some beautiful art.
Stories from the Fraerie and many more.The strange thing I find about the whole Sandman saga is that it rarely concentrates solely on the Sandman, it's more concentrating on the Universe in which he abides.I do find Morpheus fascinating and in this volume you see what creates the reality storm.
There's all this stuff going on in the main story and it takes this full volume to interrupt itself and tell me a bunch of random short stories I don't really care about.
I know they tie into the main story in many ways but I can't help but feel like these sort of volumes completely destroy any forward momentum the main plot about Dream has going.
World's End isn't a bad book in and of itself, but the way it's placed in The Sandman made it a chore to read for me.
Amazing short stories of people intertwining into one big framework. Wonderfully coloured and beautifully drawn. And the ending...The ending was mind-blowing.
This one wasn't one of my favorites but Gaiman is such a brilliant storyteller I still feel it deserves 4 stars.
Just pure perfection. Lyrical and profound in its storytelling. This volume broke my heart into a million tiny pieces. All I'm left with are the jagged pieces of stories and an all encompassing awe of Neil Gaiman's boundless imagination and writing.
This scene and the other scenes that deal with death might be a bit morbid for some readers to handle, so if you do not like scenes with blood and gore, then you might want to skim over these scenes.Overall, “The Sandman: Worlds’ End” is easily one of the best short story collections to ever come out of Neil Gaiman’s “Sandman” series and it is definitely worth reading over and over again!Review is also on: Rabbit Ears Book Blog
Este tomo es un gran homenaje a los relatos de tradición oral, a los cuentos o historias que se relatan a la luz de una fogata en una acampada o que los padres contaban a los hijos en la cena cuando no existía la televisión, los móviles, internet...En la posada del fin del mundo se reúnen un grupo de personas y seres de distintos lugares y épocas, reales o mitológicos, que tienen en común que se perdieron durante una tormenta antes de encontrarla...
Worlds' End is another set of short stories, but what I really liked is how it was all woven together.
It's a story about a group of people trapped in an inn at the Worlds' End during a "reality storm" - to pass time, they each share stories.
It was very well crafted, and most of the stories involve characters we've met earlier.
Therefore, not only are the stories enjoyable on their own, but it's nice to have those threads woven through.True to form, the reality storm and its cause, as well as the scene from the end of the book, tie into the full Sandman story.
This is HANDS DOWN my favorite in the series! First off, the amazingly heartfelt intro by Stephen King was a perfect way to start this. It's hard to talk about how great this volume was without giving anything away but I will say it's full of intrigue, action, horror, it's a bit morbid but just the right amount and the storytelling is perfection. As only Gaiman can do. And the ending was FANTASTIC! It's gonna be hard to follow this one! 5/5 stars FOR SURE!!!
My favourite "The Sandman" volume. "A Tale of Two Cities" is very haunting, and has been on my mind for years since I read it.
3 / 5Entre tanta genialidad definitivamente tenía que haber alguno un poco flojo. Sin embargo, tanto misterio solo te prepara para el gran desenlace.
In the context of the story, the inn is a free house in that it's tied to no one world or reality stream."People from many different times and places are swept up by a reality storm and find themselves at the inn.
It’s more stylized than most of the art in Sandman, but I think it’s well suited to this story."Perhaps a city is a living thing.
Maybe it dreams.""Cluracan’s Tale" ** The fairy Cluracan, Nuala’s brother from The Sandman, Vol. 4: Season of Mists, tells a story of a diplomatic mission he once carried out for Queen Mab. He warns the other guests that his story is not very exciting, but at least it will pass the time.
While still immensely readable and entertaining, this volume is my least favorite of the Sandman series, for some reason.For me, it feels like Gaiman wasn't firing on all cylinders with this one, but most especially since this is followed by the truly outstanding "Kindly Ones" arc!
