https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/539082.The_Fool_of_the_World_and_the_Flying_Ship
“The Fool of the World and the Flying Ship” has become one of the most popular folktales ever told and is masterfully told by Arthur Ransome.
“The Fool of the World and the Flying Ship” is an extremely imaginative tale of wits and confidence.
Also, I would recommend the Rabbit Ears version of this classic tale called The Fool and the Flying Ship narrated by Robin Williams which is extremely funny and imaginative and I think that it will make a good impression on the younger audience for all time.Review is also on: Rabbit Ears Book Blog
I liked this, but didn't totally love it.
It was a fascinating tale and the illustrations were interesting.
The only problem with this book really is that it is about around a 5th grade reading level and is a picture book.
This has a lexile level of 810.
For the sake of comparison, James Patterson's adult book "Along Came a Spider" is only about a 600 level.
It is also a very wordy picture book with many pages having multiple paragraphs.
If you have a parent who thinks picture books end at first grade, this book is a good argument to the contrary.
After the czar announces that he'll offer his daughter in marriage to the man who brings him a flying ship, The Fool of the World sets off to make his way in the world and find that ship.
But promises are promises, after all, and by the end of the story, readers will be left wondering who the foolish one really is.
young readers will enjoy envisioning that rowdy crew flying through the sky, singing loudly.
Color-drenched illustrations are placed against generous white space, allowing readers to follow the flight of the ship as it passes over fields of grain and beautiful farmland.
I had hoped that as a Caldecott medal winner that this book would have better illustrations than the last version of this story that I'd read, but I was a bit disappointed.
The best picture is the two-page spread of the ship setting sail over the countryside.
But overall, I didn't really find anything to get excited about here.
The tale is well-told.
(Not much for mother-love, are we in this one?) but everything feels merely...adequate.
A good story, with lots of interesting characters but that's about it.
I wish I had more to say about this book that was positive.
A great educational book for your children of all ages. My 6 yr old loved it as well as my 3 yr old twins. Lots of good information with beautiful pictures that will help keep children engaged. A great addition to a study on fictions such as folk tales, legends or fables, or a history lesson on Russia. A great addition to any children's library.
I've encountered various versions of this story about a group of friends or brothers who each possess unexplained special abilities. Sometimes this tale is combined with that of the Fool of the World. This version was nothing special, and the rather boring illustrations did not enliven it.
He goes on a quest to make a flying ship and meets new friends along the way who help him win the heart of a princess.
I also observed that the theme is good and simple win over evil.
I would read this to my future students.How I could use this book in my classroom: The fool of the world and the flying ship is retelling a well-known story so I would either introduce or revisit what folktales and fairy tales are.
Then I could use the book and say that it is a Russian story.
The Fool of the world and the flying ship.
This is a wonderful folktale that tells of luck and cunning, the triumph of good (even if the person is simple or a fool) over that of treachery and deceit. The pictures complement the story nicely and the story is not so long as to lose a child's interest, but long enough to incorporate some comforting repetition and a fairly predictable ending. Our girls enjoyed this book. This book was selected as one of the books for the July 2015 - Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
This Russian folktale tells the story of a poor fool unloved by his parents that gets extremely lucky by winning the hand of a princess with the help of a flying ship and its crew.
The images are bright and beautiful with numerous Russian details to supplement the story.
Overall, the moral or theme seems to be that God will provide for the good and the simple – not at all a traditional American story.
An excellent children’s activity would be to make their own flying ship and crew by allowing them to choose their own cast of characters.
This is a story in which a czar promises his daughter's hand in marriage to anyone who can make a flying ship. Can the Fool do it? This book was a little long. Too long for a bedtime snuggle. And a little boring as it went on and on and on to a bland ending.
"God loves simple folk, and turns things to their advantage in the end."
This retelling of a traditional Russian folk tale was awarded the Caldecott Medal for illustrations by Uri Sheulevitz. The fool is a peasant with limited resources; even his parents look down on him. So when the czar announces that the first person to bring him a flying ship will have his daughter’s hand in marriage, no one believes the Fool could possibly succeed. But he sets off anyway, and the adventure begins. Shulevitz’s beautiful illustrations really enhance the story.
I enjoyed the illustrations by Uri Shulevitz, as they definitely helped move the incredibly long story along, and helped him win the 1969 Caldecott Award.
It is about a boy named the Fool of the World who goes in search of a flying ship to give the Czar so he can marry his daughter.
The Fool does as he is told and soon the ship is full and on its way to the Czar, who of course, must present challenges for the Fool to complete before he just gives his daughter away to a common peasant.
With the help of his new friends, the Fool completes the challenges, becomes rich and powerful and wins the Czar's daughter.
I love the pictures drawn by Uri Shulevitz for this book.
The peasant boy proves his worth by accepting the seeming fools around him, and all together they make a formidable team capable of achieving almost anything.
The flavor of this tale is distinctly non-American, and would be for younger children an interesting look into the types of morality tales told in other cultures.
The fool in the story, who is actually more clever than he appears, goes off to try his hand at adventure, and to win the hand of the Princess (actually, that would be Tsarevna, or, translated, “Grand Princess,” but that’s being extremely picky. Children will get the point) . On the way, he meets several interesting people who wind up playing an important role in his fortunes later. A very charming story, it almost reminds me of the trials of Thor in reverse. The illustrations are simple, “old fashioned,” and appropriate for the tone of the story.
One of my all time favorite children's books/ fairy tales.A young russian peasant, thought to be a b
This book was pretty interesting, I was reading along wondering how on earth it was all going to work out in the end. It is a fairly predictable beginning (feed the random stranger you meet up on the side of the road and they will give you some awesome gift) with a nice twist at the end.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
This story is a bit wordier than your normal "picture book," but it's an interesting Russian tale about a son with the lowest expectations from his family, who ends up with the Princess. The "Fool of the World" gets the prize in the end, beating out his sharper brothers, by sharing his food with a stranger at the beginning of the story, and following that stranger's advice (which, thank goodness, was good in this case!). Enjoyed the illustrations a lot--Uri Schulevitz strikes again!
Illustrated by Uri Shulevitz who wrote and illustrated "How I Learned Geography."I enjoyed the colorful, interesting illustrations. The kids enjoyed the tale."But however it was with his father and mother, this is a story that shows that God loves simple folk, and turns things to their advantage in the end."I thought that was cool. I don't think a book worded like that would win the Caldecott these days!
I had this book as a child, bought it for myself. The only thing I remembered about the story were the pretty pictures and that's actually why I bought it. Now that I've read the story as an adult, I see why I forgot it altogether. For more:http://satia.blogspot.com/2010/11/duf...
i can't even write down how much i adored this book as a child. i committed every illustration to deep memory. and at a book swap for kids last night, someone donated a paperback copy. i haven't seen it in 20 years and i almost wept with pleasure upon seeing it.
This old Russian Tale follows a peasant boy who goes off on a journey to find a flying ship so that he can marry the Czar’s daughter.
He then runs into the ancient old man who tells the boy what to do to find a flying ship.
Eventually the boy passes all of them and gets to marry the princess.
I personally believe that young girls need to know that they have value besides just being someones wife.
The idea that women are just a prize to be won is outdated and ridiculous and it's something I don't want young girls to believe.
The fool of the world is unloved by his parents and community, but when the Czar tells the people in his land that whoever can fly a ship through the air could marry his daughter.
The fool meets his first strange friend who tells him to chop down a tree with an axe, so the fool does it and the tree turns into a flying ship.
Along his way to meet the Czar, the fool picks up various other men with seemingly strange talents and interests.
These special talents come in handy when the Czar gives the fool a series of impossible tests to keep him from marrying his daughter.

This book was so much fun to read!
The artwork is simply beautiful and rich in color; I was unable to find what Uri Shulevitz chose to use as his media, so my best guess is watercolor with pen to outline.
The flying ship's outline is created with a black pen and potentially colored in with watercolor paint.
This book would be great for a read aloud with young children because even though the length is a little longer, the book is so much fun and ultimately shares a warming message about what people can accomplish, regardless of social status.
As the author mentions, the story "shows that God loves simple folk, and turns things to their advantage in the end." It's a story about an unpretentious fellow who sets out to win the hand of the princess by performing various feats.
Ages: 6 - 9Cleanliness: mentions corn brandy.#geography #russia #fairytales**Like my reviews?
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
This Russian folktale retold by Arthur Ransome is beautifully written and illustrated.
This would be a great addition to any folktale unit.
This book would be a great opportunity to talk about humbleness, perseverance, contentment and sharing.
Cheaters never prosper would be a great moral or lesson to learn from this story.
This book would be a good resource to teaching comma usage and adjectives.
This book could also have a social studies connection with a connection to Russia, traditions and the Czar.
You could easily tie in a science lesson on flight as well.
I like this book because the fool goes on an adventure and finds lots of people on the way, and he picks them up too. He gets to the king, but the king doesn't want the princess to get married to the fool. And there was five fools: one was the person with magical sticks, and when he threw them on the ground they were soldiers and a different guy threw the straw and then he made things cold, which is also magical.
My 4 year old wouldn't let me finish reading it to her so I finished reading it myself. It's not that long but she found it tedious after a few pages. So, this book is supposed to be a, "must read," and I will say that I liked it but I'm not sure what the moral of the story is and most folktales are supposed to have a moral, right? Maybe not. Either way, I couldn't find the point of the story. It was not a bad read, by any means.
The Fool of the World and the Flying ShipRetold by Arthur RansomePictures by Uri Shulevitz19681969 Caldecott Medal. Again, an author/illustrator team retells a traditional folk tale/song. I see a theme for the 60s. This one was fun to read and the art was wonderful. The happily ever after ending was a little hard to believe, though.3 1/2 stars.
