https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9549.Shadows_of_the_Empire
"Book, you have the right to a speedy trial" review THE DEFENSE  - Author does a great job portraying the battle between the Dark Side and the Light Side of the Force - I just reread that sentence...I'm starting to think it's possible that I might be a... GEEK! :o  - Personalities of the classic Star Wars characters are captured very well...particularly Lando! - Me, a geek? I always thought I was as suave and sophisticated as Lando as I strut around in my dress shirt and Scooby-Doo tie! - Fills
:o  - Personalities of the classic Star Wars characters are captured very well...particularly Lando!
- Action sequences flow nicely...especially the exciting dogfights between the spaceships - If only there been some indication I may be turning into a geek at my high school prom when I spent the whole night sitting in the corner reading comic books...oh, okay, now I get it!
- Princess Leia spends a little too much time in the "damsel in distress" role - Realizing that instead of kicking butt, Leia was going to spend several chapters sitting in a prison cell?
- Reading things like, "Vader sighed"...Vader NEVER sighs!
The expansion of the canonical universe I especially liked - particularly the parts where we get to see something of how the Empire operated on a day-to-day basis.The dialogue, however, is choppy, and often reads more like a screen-play than a novel.
The exposition too often seems forced - something which seems especially irksome when you consider that the number of people reading this who don't have a fairly good knowledge of the Star Wars universe will more than probably be extremely low.All in all, though, it's a fun read if you have an hour or two to spare and want to switch your brain off.
Rated by my SO, who likes it because Xizor makes a pretty awesome villain, and  Dash Rendar is all kinds of awesome. It answers some questions, fills up some lost time between Empire and Return, and features most of the SW movie cast.
Luke, Lando, Leia, and Chewie are desperately searching for the bounty hunter, in the hopes of rescuing Han. Meanwhile, Prince Xizor of the Black Sun is angling to destroy his rival and destroyer of his family, Darth Vader.NOTE: Based on the audiobook and what I remember of the novel I read years ago.I Liked:Steve Perry is given a difficult task: bridge the gap between The Empire Strikes Backand Return of the Jedi.
This means you get things like Cognar's famous rebuke of a conservative priest at the council being transformed into Xizor beating up a muscle-bound assassin and Garrigou-Lagrange's blistering critique of modernist theology in the Humani generis being shown as a space battle which destroys the palace of modernism.
Still a quirky satire that is worthwhile if only for its novelty whilst still being an acceptable read to those who dont have an interest in the development of Catholic theology or ecclesiastical politics .
I lasted through 40 pages or so of this novel.
The concept sounded interesting; a rival vs Darth Vader for the affections of the Emperor.But the problem is that the concept wasn't fully mined nor not even partially enough to make it interesting enough.
Furthermore, every other chapter jumped to the Star Wars characters in which they rehashed stuff from the movies just like the crime lord character who was opposed to Vader.
I get that he hates Vader but do I have to hear it for pages and pages of internal thoughts?
Moreover, half of what Vader and the Emperor talk about is .
from the movies!
As you recall Han is kinda frozen, Luke is not quite done his training and Lando has possession of the Falcon and Leia is, well Leia and Chewie still snarls a lot.What this novel does well is set a good fast pace of activities in the Star Wars universe and really fill in how Luke built his new light saber and what Leia and Chewie and Lando did between movies.
If you are a Star Wars geek you will likely need to read this book since it ties up a bunch of activities between movies and is treated as official Star Wars Universe stuff.
Good solid airplane fun reading. The usual Star Wars cliches and weaknesses apply, but what were you expecting from a Star Wars novel, existential philosophy? It's fun seeing Luke, Leia et. al. during their original series prime, and Luke as a Jedi in training is more entertaining than his omnipotent later incarnations. The characters are a bit more vulnerable and human than in other books (this book has more "adult situations" than all the others combined, but that isn't saying much), so it's certainly worthwhile if you're a Star Wars fan.
I'd heard good things about SoTE, had fond memories of the game, and honestly thought the plot sounded pretty good in summary.
However, the real problem with SoTE is that Perry never escapes the tropes of the SW universe.
The KOTOR games, Matthew Stover's novels, as well as select other novels written by people who care and know how to write, and also including the excellent essential guides and rpg sourcebooks written by people who care as much or more, have done great things for the quality of new Star Wars stories.
I have read a small handful of the Star Wars novels, and some are better than others.
It's also one of the better Star Wars novels I have read, second only to the terrific Timothy Zahn three-book series.
2) It helps to explain Leia's inexplicable turn-around in TESB from being completely indifferent to Han to falling in love with him, as we see a fully-developed independent woman who thinks she knows what she wants in a man, until she meets the ruggedly charming Han Solo, who throws her whole world-view out of whack.
This was my first foray into reading a genre book from a franchise.
I've been watching the original Star Wars films with my daughter.
I like to try things I wouldn't normally do and reading a Star Wars book is definitely one of them.
There'd be passages where the content masked the simplistic writing, but once the story was mired down in an action sequence, the whole thing just got ridiculous.
All in all, I don't regret reading it, but don't think I'll come back to the SW literary galaxy anytime soon.
This was one of the better Star Wars books that I read.
The thing I liked most about this book was that something happened on just about every page.
Also, the main villain, Xizor, was very credible opponent to Luke, Lea, and even Vader.
Both Xizor and Vader wanted to capture Luke but for different reasons (Vader to turn to the dark side and Xizor for money/power) so they seemed to work together but yet also wanted to destroy each other without wanting to let on that this was an additional goal.
This is definitely a conflicting book to read for Leia fans: Perry spends a lot of time in her head, which is appreciable, and he doesn't do a terrible job of it - while she does often think about her romantic feelings for Luke and Han, they aren't her primary concern and she more often than not chastises herself not to think about them right now, showing that she has her priorities well in order.
As a 12 year old girl, it was all a little titillating to read, if only because we don't see a lot in the way of sex in Star Wars novels period, but it's also unfortunate that one of the few times we do, it's an attempted rape of Leia.
Interesting narrative that fits pretty snug between Episodes V and VI. It was fun for me getting into the story and the heads of Luke, Leia, and even Lando as they piece together the eventual rescue of Han as well as deal with a number of twists and other adversaries in their way.The treatment of the characters is pretty faithful to their on-screen personas, a fan of the Star Wars saga should enjoy this one.
It was made a little less irksome because Luke and Leia are constantly comparing him to Han, so their similarities are noted, and he was kind of fun, but I honestly would have liked it better if the twist was he genuinely only cared about getting paid.
(But don't worry; there was no more kissing.)The story is full of hints and events leading into Return of the Jedi, right down to the Bothans gaining 'critical information' that Luke is sure he'll be briefed on soon enough.The best part about this book by far was getting inside Darth Vader's head, even for a little bit.
Set in the time between Episode V and Episode VI, "Shadows of the Empire" has Leia, Luke, Lando, Chewie and the droids looking for Han Solo, who has been frozen in carbonite and taken away by the bounty hunter Boba Fett.
This book shows us how his confidence grows over several battles and other incidents where his Jedi training serves him in good stead.The thing I really didn't care for was Xizor's attempted seduction of Princess Leia.
She is much more likely to take control of her own destiny.Oh, and one other little complaint, why don't Luke and the others know that Han will be taken to Jabba?
I collected Star Wars figures at the time, and despite not having read the central piece in the media onslaught, I got figures for Xizor, Dash Rendar, and even Chewbacca in his transvestite bounty hunter disguise.For the past 16 years, I had just assumed that this was a rather epic story centered around Dash Rendar, and that the quality control was comparatively higher than other, less promoted Star Wars novels.I was wrong.The first thing that struck me was how weak the writing in the initial chapters is.
Xizor supplies the Empire with the location of an unguarded Rebel base, to which Vader replies "I'll have my agents check it out." He'll WHAT??
This one was okay, but ended up dragging a bit.
It's set between the second and third movie and I thought it would be more about working on a plan to rescue Han, but it was mostly about an attempt on Luke's life and working to defeat that.
And, okay, but I know how that turns out!You do get to see into Darth Vader's thoughts, and it's fun to see Leia thinking, "Okay, I love Han, but I also feel connected to Luke!"But I finished this a few days ago and can't tell you much about the actual plot.(Also, my ebook copy didn't have line breaks between scene switches.
This was excellent. I know 'Shadows' is well known, and has been out quite a while. I'm late getting to a lot of Star Wars novels. I really enjoyed how this story bridged the gap between 'Empire' and 'Jedi', but still managed to be fresh, original, and add memorable characters like Dash Rendar and Xizor. Well worth my time.
It may have been good if I'd read it when I was 10.
Adds texture to the Star Wars universe between episodes Five and Six, but adds no essential knowledge
The book does a fantastic job at portraying a new and interesting villain (who is almost on the same level as Lord Vader), named Prince Xizor.
The book goes into heavy detail about his Jedi training and how he learned to use certain force abilities, as well as how he constructed his new lightsaber.
I think the book does an excellent job at portraying Calrissian’s character and adding him as a new addition to the crew.
I really did like certain aspects of Luke’s Jedi training, such as him returning to Old Ben’s house in order to construct his new lightsaber.
The mastermind behind the Black Sun criminal organization, the Dark Prince Xizor is competing for the Emperors favor, against Darth Vader. After finally being able to strike against Vader, Xizor finds his plans foiled by a Corellian Smuggler called Han Solo. You would like this book if you like Star Wars and fantasy
Wanted to read some garbage fiction as an escape from my academic reading load. This was perfect. It’s trash.
and in the end, I managed to read the main element of this Star Wars multimedia project: the novel.My experience with the Star Wars Expanded Universe is mainly with video games and comics, so this was basically my first Star Wars novel, and I have not been disappointed: the way the story is built, the mise-en-scène of known and new characters is pure Star Wars.
And part of it was there was so much Extended Universe stuff hitting the shelves, between the "Heir to Empire" trilogy and "The Jedi Academy" trilogy and the "X-Wing" series and the Dark Horse Comics etc., there was plenty to indulge in and almost all of it was really good material written by top notch scribes.Well now I have read it and can tell you those "Shadows" backlash reviews back in the day were just that, emotional reactions reviewers have when they feel the need to push back on something wildly popular.
This ranks right up there with my favorite "Star Wars" EU book of all-time, right alongside K.W. Jeter's Boba Fett/Bounty Hunter Trilogy, Timothy Zahn's "Heir to the Empire" trilogy, the "X-Wing" series, and the Dark Horse comic "Dark Empire".Bottom line: "Shadows of the Empire" is pure exhilarating joy for fans of classic "Star Wars".
Shadows of the Empire gives much depth to Xizor's character.
Many paragraph breaks within chapters make the pace seem faster and allow Perry to switch the perspective between several characters throughout a single chapter.
This book is a must read for anyone interested in Prince Xizor as Perry spends a lot of time from Xizor's perspective.
Perry also spends some time from Vader's perspective and readers get to see him interact with Palpatine.
Shadows of the Empire does a good job filling in the story between the movies and gives more depth to Xizor.
So far the best of the extended universe novels I have read..this is maybe due to the fact that as i
This book was hard to get into.
It has several main characters resulting in lots of short scenes and POV shifts to go along with and even worse, no attempts at smoothing transitions.
The writing style is uneven as well, filled with second person idioms and tense shifts.
This book felt like it was written by and for people with ADD.
The short scenes and POV shifts broke story momentum and there was nothing to entice me to keep reading.
Reading it felt like a chore, and life's too short to waste on a book that couldn't grab my attention within the first 10%.
