https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156723.Counter_Clock_World
.good pretty is Memento Nolan's .screen the on best works it think I ,though Really .this do to way 
In this world, because of something called the Hobart Effect, time has begun moving backward.
Even the police are terrified of the librarians.Time moves backwards...
Some of those inconsistencies make the world not as plausible as it should have been in order to focus on the story.
Of course, she's getting younger and dumber all the time, so maybe that is to be expected.
Dick uses alliteration and adverbs, she says knowingly.ETA: I forgot to mention that even though I called the characters flat and pointed out holes in the story, I thought this novel was hysterical.
Place there is none; we go backward and forward, and there is no place.-- St. Augustine."Sic igitur magni quoque circum moenia mundi expugnata dabunt labem putresque ruinas (So likewise the walls of the great universe assailed on all sides shall suffer decay, and fall into ruin."-- Lucretius, Book ii 1144 1145. I SAW God. Do you doubt it?  Do you dare to doubt it? I saw the Almighty Man. His hand Was resting on a mountain, and He looked upon the World and all about it: 5I saw him plainer than yo
I saw the Almighty Man. His hand	 Was resting on a mountain, and	 He looked upon the World and all about it:	 5I saw him plainer than you see me now,	  You mustn't doubt it.
Then I said, "Stay,	 You must not strike it, God; I'm in the way;	 And I will never move from where I stand."	 He said, "Dear child, I feared that you were dead," And stayed His hand.-- James Stephens, What Tomas An Buile Said In a PubOur Man in the GraveyardThree organizations vie for the recently resurrected body of the Anarch Thomas Peak.
This was during his most prolific period as an author (more than half of his 44 novels were published between 1960-1969), and the majority of those books feature what I'm going to call the Dick Click (for lack of a better term).You start reading almost any novel by Dick and for the first 50-100 pages you're pretty confused with no idea WTF you're reading or why you're digging it so much.
Just go with it, I'm too lazy to re-write.Counter-Clock World does not contain a Dick Click.
For example, in Counter-Clock World, we can’t let it bother us that an excavating company has the rights to sell people it digs up and that nobody, including the resurrected people and their relatives, question this.
It’s got the usual wacky premise, annoying abbreviations (’pape” for newspaper, “pilg” for pilgrimage, etc), bad marriages, robots, drug trips (only one short one this time), and plenty of paranoia, but the plot holds together well (once you agree to the premise), it’s fast-paced, amusing, and, most importantly, not confusing.There’s usually a religious theme in PKD’s work, but it’s a particular focus in Counter-Clock World.
When a dead guru begins to stir it seems everyone is interested in his resurrection: the Library, a powerful group whose job it is to destroy written history -- an establishment everyone seems terrified of for reasons I couldn't fathom -- and the new guru, Ray Rogers and his dedicated followers, to name but a few of those with a vested interest.
Will he have new insights into the afterlife which every other so far resurrected citizen has failed to remember?
Seriously, who cares?This idea could have worked if Dick had paid more attention to making the plot and his characters.
3.5/5Un libro molto diverso dai più noti di Dick.Escluso ogni elemento fantascientifico, sono comunque presenti alcuni temi cari all’autore, come l’esistenza di molteplici realtà possibili, diversi continuum, la non linearità del tempo, calati in una storia dalle tinte fosche, a volte inquietanti.
La capacità evocativa di Dick risulta magistrale anche in generi narrativi diversi dalla fantascienza, così come la sua bravura nel seminare spunti di riflessione molto profondi, talora turbanti.Alcune soluzioni narrative a mio parere non sono perfettamente riuscite, addirittura un po’ stonate nel contesto generale.

This is one of those Philip K. Dick novels that has a fascinating premise but is perhaps a little too hard for the author to handle at this developing time in his career. There are some really nice philosophical turns throughout but the concept may be a little too strange and artificial. For anyone else this would be a four star book but Dick has written better..ǫninniǫɘd ɘʜƚ ƚɒ ǫnibnɘ bnɒ bnɘ ɘʜƚ ƚɒ ǫniƚɿɒƚƨ ,ƨiʜƚ ɘʞil ƚi ɘƚoɿw ɘvɒʜ bluoʜƨ ɘʜ ǫniʞniʜƚ qɘɘʞ I ,noiƚnɘm oƚ ƚoИBut then, I'm weird.
Le titre interdit tout contre-sens. Ne faites pas les choses à l'envers. Telle pourrait être la morale de ce conte absurde sur le sens de la vie.
Real weak plot depth there, so that's one star gone.In this world, the Library is the ultimate totalitarian authority and scares the hell out of everyone.
It's very disappointing, and I don't want to sound too PC, but it's a real failure on the author's part, in my opinion.) Sebastian digs up Peak, but the Library steals him away and the book revolves around Sebastian's attempts to get him back (along with his wife, who the Library also has) with the help of the Udi and the Rome faction.
If you're not familiar with Dick as an author, this isn't the book with which I would start.
In a post-WWIV society (which began in, er, 1986) time starts to reverse by a phenomenon entitled the Hobart Phase, where the living grow younger by the day and the dead come back to life, requiring their exhumation by trained experts.Sebastian Hermes owns one such Vitarium, as well as being a resurrectee.
'Seating himself on a cane-bottomed chair he picked a cigarette butt from the nearby ashtray, lit it and begun puffing smoke into it.'And yet, in order for Dick to have a forward moving plot, for all intents and purposes time still moves forward, so he only goes half way with his concept.
Dick felt that he could incorporate the aspect of time reversing itself without paying attention to his depth of thought and though it would all work out OK.
I didn't mind his depth of thought in Counter-Clock World -- I just didn't think it worked well with the book's plot.
Philosophers such as William Lane Craig have addressed the aspect of time, yes, but even without that in mind, the book did have interesting time-related philosphical aspects that I felt would've worked better if Dick paid more attention to how he incorporated the plot so that it was on equal plane with his depth of thought.
This is one of the strangest stories I have read, set in a world where time has reversed itself and the dead are coming back to life, books are being unwritten, food is no longer ingested but disgorged, and in general, as the title of the book suggests the world has started to move counter-clockwise.
Philip K.
Dick gets a lot of respect from writers and critics from both inside and outside the Science Fiction establishment.
This is the fourth book by him I have read and I am still astonished by what a bad writer he is.
I have enjoyed the film adaptations of his work very much, such as A Scanner Darkly, Total Recall, Minority Report and Bladerunner, but I'm not sure i can put myself through reading another book with such terrible writing.
JG Ballard and William Gibson demonstrate that it is perfectly possible to be a literary science fiction writer.
3 PKD könyv elolvasása után egyre biztosabban mondhatom, hogy én képtelen vagyok értékelni K. Dick írói "munkásságát". A High Castle lassan két éve pihen 80%-on a Kindle-n, ezt a borzalmat meg csak azért sikerült elolvasnom, mert legalább rövid volt. Adott egy közepesen kreatív sci-fi ötlet, miszerint az idő mostantól visszafelé megy, majd ennek az implikációt az író csak akkor viszi tovább (úgy cigiznek, hogy felvesznek egy csikket a földről, majd a végén visszarakják a cigisdobozba, de egyébként a cselekmény lineárisan meg előre), ha épp úgy tartja kedve. Cserébe a sztori és a karakterek minősíthetetlenül rosszak. :(
Really low 3 - I contemplated giving it a 2. I mean, time starts running backwards so the dead are reborn and you have to eat through your colon and puke up food? Is he in 6th grade?Also, it's mostly chase scenes and spy counter-spy stuff. It is interlaced with theological tracts, which you might think would be my way in, but it's pretty unremarkable theology. What saves the book is the protagonist, who is so very human.
kosz Gyorkei :(
I've read a lot of PKD, and I'm sad to say I'm a little "eh" about this one.
If you've never read PKD, I would not make this your first, or even 5th.
The story explores the phenomenon of time going in reverse, which apparently even Stephen Hawking seems to think is not totally fantasy.
Time going in reverse leads to some chuckle-worthy daily rituals and turns of phrase.
I think the book gets better towards the last third of the story where more action takes place.
So if you're a diehard PKD fan it's worth a read, if not there's better novels of his out there.

He is about due for re-animation, and the politics surrounding him make this important and dangerous; those who have control of the cult since his death are not likely to give up their power easily, and the Library doesn't want him to return at all because of the disruption his anti-racist stand caused when he was alive.The way that Counter-Clock World is written makes me think it was inspired by the striking image of the revived dead trying to get the attention of the living so they can be released from their coffins.
Σε αυτό το βιβλίο υπάρχουν δύο πράγματα που είναι αντίστροφα: η ροή του χρόνου και η αναλογία καλής ιδέας και υλοποίησης.
[...] Ο κόσμος που έχουμε στην πραγματικότητα δεν ικανοποιεί τα πρότυπά μου.
DickH μη υποχώρηση μπροστά στην πραγματικότητα, είναι πάρα πολύ σαφής και σε αυτό το υπερβατικό μυθιστόρημα του PKD.
Αυτό που δεν είναι καθόλου σαφές, είναι τo αν το "Αντίστροφος Κόσμος" έχει κάτι άλλο να προσφέρει, πέρα από την πραγματεία του θρησκευτικού συναισθήματος.
Αλλά, όπως πάντα, ο PKD δεν ενδιαφέρεται να εξηγήσει τα τι και τα πώς της δυστοπίας του, παρά μόνο το να ρίψει τους χαρακτήρες του στις ακρότερες των καταστάσεων και να τους αφήσει να ανταποκριθούν.
Dick must be the Forrest Gump of running with a premise.
Actually, there is some sort of a plot here - three rival factions are after the same recently revivified religious leader - the (nuclearizsed) LAPD, a group of militant black nationalists (in this universe they seem to control the entire eastern US, which has seceded from the union), and the public librarians.
"Parks and Recreation" fans will be unsurprised that the most diabolical faction is the latter one.
For all its LSD grenades and robotic assassins, this is a real PKD clunker; only the most stubborn Dick completionists should consider picking it up.
A very interesting book with a creepy ending.
But nonetheless it was an interesting story.
I think my favourite idea was the evil library that was intent on destroying all information, eradicating knowledge from the world.
A book with evil librarians as the villan's definitely appeals to me.
I also felt like I was loosing some of the point of the religious conversations, but nonetheless I did still enjoy the book.
While not as good as some of his other books I've read I did like this one, and thought that the ending was very creepy indeed.
I shall definitely keep reading his other books.
Actually kind of a crappy story, but the idea is fantastic: a world in which time is moving backwards.
People get younger and younger and eventually turn into babies and crawl into their mothers.
Nine months later (or earlier) their mothers have to find someone to have sex with and take their semen back.
The backwards world is all done very well.The best bit though is the Library, which is a massive, shadowy, and sinister bureaucracy whose mission it is to collect all of the inventions and ideas and ensure that, when their time comes, they disappear.
One of the better Philip K.
Dicks, although I don't think it cracks my top five.
Lots of things happen in reverse, although why is not always explained, such as libraries gradually eliminating books over time, smokers puffing smoke into cigarette butts to make them whole again, and saying "goodbye" as a greeting and "hello" as a farewell.
I appreciated the use of "food" as a swear-word replacement for the reverse bodily process.With Philip K.
Dick you know there are other things thrown in, such as psychic powers and a large religious cult.
Yet another PKD novel which, despite the fact that his strange universe makes little logical sense and fails to obey its own rules, still captivates you to the point where you simply do not care about any of that: it simply becomes another way for the characters to question their own sense of reality, of existence, and what they want.
Any complaints against the novel would stem from my impression of its being a little rushed in places, and the aforementioned ending comes rather quickly and abruptly, but hey, when you're penniless and writing for bread these kind of things happen, and there's plenty of other PKD that is fully and completely realized (and which I'm still saving for later).
This book deserves more than the 3 stars I gave it.
It's pretty good; better than your average read definitely...so why have I done this?Well, because as far as I can tell, the central premise doesn't really make any sense.
Shouldn't people be pulling bullets out of them instead?)Regardless of this, the book is interesting.
I just can't say I've ever read a science fiction book that was so clearly not possible.In all fairness to the book, I feel like I should have started with this final paragraph...
It's an interesting concept that Dick does really well - time has been going backwards for years, and people are starting to come back from the dead.
It's main character, Sebastian Hermes, owns a vitarium, which is a business that finds people waking up in their coffins and gets them out.
They then sell that person on to the highest bidder.It's all going well until the Anarch Peak, the leader of the Free Negro Municipality religion (yes, that's its name) awakens and a battle ensues over who gets him.The novel is Dick's take on religion, but it has not aged well, with constant references to 'negroes' and 'colored' people.
For Dick fans only.Like even the best of Dick, this has leaden dialogue and flat characters.Like even the worst of Dick, this has interesting ideas, plot twists and reversals, and puts characters in interesting situations.The central principle, that the dead come back and age backwards -- disgorging food instead of eating it, un-smoking cigarettes, etc., -- is preposterous. But it does lead to some interesting new insults, such as mouth-hole!If you are already a fan of Dick, there is no reason you wouldn't enjoy it. If you aren't, then start with one of the other books.
