https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/631127.The_Clue_of_the_Velvet_Mask
The Good: This is standard fare for this series, which isn't a bad thing. A great whodunit with action, peril, a convoluted plot...what's not to like? Fans of the famed teenage sleuth will love it!The Bad: Nothing to complain about, really; it just wasn't anything spectacular.Conclusion: You probably already know if this is for you, but, I'll say it anyway: Fans of the franchise will have a blast with this...but, if this kind of book isn't your thing, nothing in this will change your mind.
Guys, I think it's so fantastic that my 30th book of the year--the one that means I hit my 2014 reading challenge (and will probably slaughter it by the end of the year, I'd hope)--is a freaking Nancy Drew mystery of all things.
How come some kids turn into readers, and some kids cry (literally, I've seen legit tears in my classroom) when the act of reading or the title of a novel is even mentioned?
Note to self....So I know this review has nothing to do with the book itself, which is fine, because I don't think a 30 year-old woman should be expected to actually review a Nancy Drew novel.
The villain in this book couldn't have been more obvious if he was twirling the ends of a handlebar mustache and cackling manically, yet only Nancy Drew can figure out he's bad news. Sounds about right. Seriously, you couldn't pay me enough to live in River Heights. People are drugged and kidnapped pretty much every week, and the cops are absolutely useless. What are they going to do if Nancy moves away?!
What a scary Nancy Drew novel, as she and her boyfriend Ned are witnesses to a crime. The cover always freaked me out on this book.
Of coarse, being a lifelong fan, I have re-read a number of Nancy Drew Mystery Stories over the years when I needed to. This one was fun but not my favorite, being a hometown story set in River Heights. A diabolically clever gang has a system of robbing homes of their treasures during parties. And what could be better than a masquerade party? And more than one person wearing a velvet mask!
No sign of Burt or Dave in this book, but Ned shows up now and then to get beat up by the bad guys.
Someone (or in this case a gang) is robbing homes of wealthy people in River Heights.
They sneak into the homes as guests - conveniently these people are all giving masquerade parties.
Must be when you're rich you lose your common sense - don't have a masquerade party if that's how the thieves are getting in.
George is kidnapped and scared shitless.
She just sits at home and whines and cries that Nancy is in danger.
This was the first Nancy Drew book I ever read.
My friend had a themed birthday party, so to better understand the premise, I read this book.
I fell in love with Nancy Drew and read about 100 of the 175 old series.
I learned they were written by several different people and it became amusing to me how Nancy kept evolving and gaining more exceptional talents, yet stayed 18 with her 2 best friends, Bess & George.
:) I totally shipped Nancy and Ned for-- forever actually I still ship them.
I daydreamed constantly about Nancy and her gang of friends.
Another piece in the ongoing puzzle of Nancy Drew and her historical context. She's always ahead of her time, but still of her time, so I both respect her and find her historically fascinating. The books are formulaic and dated (hence the three-star rating) yet also charming, engaging, and edifying. And she's been a smart, tough girl since the 1930s, so I gotta love that. I intend to keep collecting them when I can find them for cheap.
I admit, I also have the entire Alice series. I love Alice and her friends Bess and Marion. I read every single one when I was younger.Those where the first books I actually read...I start right from the start with la Bibliotheque verte and then I was reading both French classics, litterature jeunesse or international classics...
Thieves are targeting the wealthy, so Nancy sleuths to solve the mystery. A fun and entertaining read.
Read for Golden Vintage Mystery Bingo -- read a book from the year you were born: 1953. Actually not a bad mystery, but I thought the identity of the ringleader was so obvious.
Oh my goodness, I haven't read a Nancy Drew book in years!
We read them all the time when I was growing up, and I see why.
With that said, my copy of this book was published in 1953.
Modern teens would be confused by some of it, but I really enjoyed the trip back in time.
Modern young-uns might enjoy reading how the old days were, and us older folks, especially the old Nancy Drew fans, could spend a pleasant couple of hours reminiscing about the old days when men were bad guys and girls outsmarted them at every turn.
The book Nancy Drew and the velvet mask was one of the best books I every read.
I love all Nancy Drew books but this one was the best.
It had all of these things but it had adventure, It was scary, It was sad but at the same time fun.
The summary if this book is that there are parties that this one company is throwing.
At every one of these partys the robbers called the Velvet gang.
I gave this book a 5 star because it was an amazing book.
I am so gald I read it.
A good mystery with a tough case to crack. The only thing I found troubling was that George Fayne acted completely out of character by being scared and trying to warn Nancy away from solving the mystery. Normally a threat from one of the masked crooks who kidnapped her would not deter George from pursuing the investigation, so this made no sense. Other than that, there was lots of action as Nancy and friends worked on solving the mystery of the Velvet Gang.
Mostly 4 stars for nostalgia. Nancy Drew books will always have a special place in my heart, because they really made me love reading. This was one of my favorites growing up. Re-reading it is a little sad, because, objectively, it is cliche and a bit thin on characterization (among other things) and it's definitely better in memory. But hey, it's fast-paced and entertaining and it's Nancy Drew! Miss Jane-of-all-Trades is amazing and always will be.
This book has tons of mystery that Nacy Drew finds with lots of people stopping her in the way.
This one had so much action!!!!
The author spents almost the entire book hyping the Velvet gang as the most dangerous villains Nancy has ever faced but the relative ease with which they are caught...
4 starsOOooh. Very different and fun! I love the picture of Ned in the Spanish costume too :P
The Clue of the Velvet Mask  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 30th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. When Nancy attends a masquerade party at the Hendrick estate, she discovers a stranger attempting to climb the rose trellis to the second story of the house. Who is this enigmatic man in the black cloak, and why is he so determined to retrieve the black velvet hooded mask? Is he a member of the gang of wily thieves who sneak into parties given by wealthy people and steal
When Nancy attends a masquerade party at the Hendrick estate, she discovers a stranger attempting to climb the rose trellis to the second story of the house.
Though her friend soon discovers that while it is exciting to play amateur detective it can be dangerous to masquerade as Nancy Drew.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
Most of these gatherings are planned by Lightner Entertainment Co. Nancy has a friend there, Linda Seeley, who she reconnects with at the first party she attends.
After the robbery, Nancy and Mr. Drew begin investigating.
Linda is able to make sure that Nancy has invitations to attend to all of these events.
Mr. Tombar, Linda's boss, has her dismissed and continuously makes the investigation more difficult for Nancy, rightfully throwing suspicion on himself.
His accomplices include the storeroom manager at the local department store, who is able to ship stolen items elsewhere for sale, and a caterer who has been working various parties in order to cut off the power so the robbery can take place in pitch black.
It was definitely because of the sweet cliched Nancy Drew-isms that were extremely prevalent in this book.
I love Nancy Drew because it is soooo idealistic.
Nancy always finds a good and convenient way to get out of whatever situation she is in.
This book was a fun read.
I think that the appeal of the Nancy Drew series is that you don't have to think really hard about the mystery to solve it.
I definitely felt like a sleuth as I put together after the second chapter who the main culprit of the mysterious robberies was.
Sometimes, that is exactly the type of book that I want to read!
The story unfolds very much according to the Nancy Drew formula with Nancy getting close to the robbers early but not discovering this until late in the book.
Late in the story, Nancy, Bess and George do get into a fist fight with the baddies, a scene both incongruous and not in keeping with the standard proceedings where some combination of Ned, Chief McGinnis, Carson Drew or others do the actual clean up work.
However, this notwithstanding, a decent choice among the Drew series.
In short, actually a good introductory book for those getting into into this old mystery series.
Some parts were so confusing it was frustrating to try to understand, which meant I kept going back to the previous page to try to get what was really going on and read the same paragraph again to try to understand.
Also, I was forcing myself to finish it off.
I hate to force myself to finish a Hardy Boys or Nancy Drew book, but this ND book was just so boring!
Some parts were so suspenseful that made me want to keep reading but some parts were so boring and confusing that I couldn't wait for it to finish.
If you want a good ND read, I advise you not to read this one!
Nancy's at it again.
This time she accidentally picks up the wrong mask at a masquerade party and falls into the mystery of a group of jewel thieves.
Along the way, she helps a friend keep a job and also manages to get George Frayne kidnapped which turns George into a fearful shell of her former self (which doesn't seem in keeping with George's character, even if she was threatened).
Of course, Nancy keeps her wits together and even after she and Bess are also taken, manages to use a piece of metal to free herself from her hands and feet being bound and then utilizes a child's chemistry set to create the illusion of fire and escape.
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew. It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain. Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy. No brains. To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation. Carolyn Keene wrote just for me! That is how I felt. When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ... writing under Frank Dixon. I also loved the Hardy Boys. No wonder I loved these series.
This is an interesting ND book.
There have been a chain of robberies occurring during parties in River Heights.
Nancys friend is suspected so Nancy goes undercover as a coatroom attendant to do some sleuthing.
The reason this is interesting is because Nancy is working at a few parties when robberies take place and she picks up no clues.
Also Nancy goes to a costume party dressed up as a Spanish senorita.
Her costume consists of items that had belonged to her mother.
One of the few times her mother is mentioned.
Overall it's a good read and I'd recommend it.
Zillionaires with priceless art and jewels have masquerade balls in their mansions and don't require anyone to show an invitation to enter. What could possibly go wrong? Oh, how about a band of thieves targeting all the balls and no one changes procedure until Nancy gets involved.George pretends to be Nancy and gets chloroformed and kidnapped and becomes morose until nearly the end of the story. Nancy and Bess are later bound and gagged and abducted which snaps George out of her moroseness.
Another re-read of one of the first ND books I ever read, given to me by my cousin when I was very young. I enjoyed it anew, having forgotten much of what happened in the story.Again re-read one of my favorites in the series for a book challenge this year. Once again, enjoyed the mystery, and find that the older I get, the less I remember about these books, so they are challenging to read once again.
I thought that this Nancy Drew book was good. I liked all the suspense that it presented. Nancy would always nose around and try to get information about people. She liked to put herself in harms way. Sometimes she would turn out to be fine. It turns out that she was kidnapped; after looking around an old inn that the man who was part of the Velvet Gang, owned. Over all it was not the best book I have read but it was pretty close.
