https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/215485.The_World_of_Odysseus
Once Finley has discarded the poems as documents, and chosen not to analyze them from a literary point of view, what can he then say that any attentive reader and observer of human nature, in general, would not have also noticed?Gift givingThis edition comes with two important Appendixes, both provided by Finley almost twenty years after his main essay.
These have now been completely discarded and I recommend the amusing The Fall of Troy------Reading The Oxford History of the Classical World, in his essay on Homer, Oliver Taplin comments on Finley's book.
The first historical task is to determine the time.Finley locates the actual time - as opposed to the represented time - of "Odysseus' world" not where I had naively accepted it to be; the received notion from such sources as Herodotus set the Homeric poems in Mycenaean times (12th - 14th century BCE).(*) According to Finley, the Odyssey was written in the 7th century BCE, a little less than a century after the Iliad was written, and the world it describes is not really the relatively distant past as the text pretends, but is primarily that of the 9th and 10th centuries BCE with anachronistic admixtures from both before and after that time.After explaining the craft of the bards from whose oral tradition the Homeric poets selected and sewed together various pieces, Finley briefly points out the elements of the Homeric text(s) which stem from the standard tools of this craft.
A thorough look into the sociological implications of “The Iliad” and “The Odyssey.” Finley discounts the possibility of a real Trojan War on the same grand scale as told by Homer, but he finds value in what the famous orator has to tell us about the Greek ‘hero’ society of that period. I admire Finley’s direct approach to the controversial topics, but the material is a little dry. A good book, but best suited for passionate fans of Homer.
As a side note, I should say that I was biased in favor of liking this book after I found out some of Finley's life story.
According to wikipedia:"He taught at Columbia University and City College of New York, where he was influenced by members of the Frankfurt School who were working in exile in America.
He invoked the Fifth Amendment and refused to answer."He was fired at the end of the year and could never work in the U.S. again.
A political martyr who ended up becoming a British citizen and getting knighted, after hanging out with the Frankfurters in New York?
Appendix II, with its apoplectic rant against Schliemann's Troy and the false leads provided by the archaeological record in general, is alone worth the price of the book.
Mais ce que propose Moses Finley dans cette petite étude intitulée le monde d'Ulysse, c'est plutôt un cheminement inverse: partir de l’œuvre de fiction homérique pour tenter de mieux comprendre le monde d'Homère et le monde d'Ulysse que nous connaissons bien mal par ailleurs, pour nous en brosser la peinture la plus plus vraisemblable possible.Quoique pleine de promesses, cette démarche est évidemment hérissée de difficultés pointues: les événements ont-ils eu lieu?
J'ai donc eu du mal à me passionner pour l'ouvrage: l’intérêt de l’œuvre d'Homère, n'est ce pas plutôt le formidable foisonnement qu'elle a suscité, que ce soit pour enrichir son univers de nouvelles fictions, ou pour servir de support aux philosophes et exégètes qui se sont penchés pendant des siècles sur sa trame?
Finley controls his discussions masterfully - just enough detail to achieve his purpose, i.e. to define each domain in the world of Odysseus, "heoric culture," that is, rather than the whole of ancient society, economy and culture, so that one has it firmly in mind - and no more - not one jot or tittle.And this is just the sort of book that should go/has gone through many editions to reflect accretions/accumulation of knowledge and the author's assessment of them.
I. Finley's The World of Odysseus is perhaps one of the most reliable books about what we can learn from Homer's Iliad and Odyssey.
Finley derides the whole notion of "Homer-as-war-correspondent," namely, as a reliable guide to the who, what, why, when, and where of historical fact.
What Finley does provide is an inventory of what life in the time of Odysseus was liked based on internal evidence from the epics.
As such, it is eminently readable and eye-opening, especially to one who, like myself, just finished re-reading Homer's Odyssey.
A reread, I realized.
Though read many years ago, I still found this to be an interesting book and a fine companion to a reading of the Iliad.
Finley's subject is the revelation of the real Greece which existed behind Homer's 2 heroic poems.
His research and a lifetime of Homer studies allowed him to write material explaining Greek morals and values, the role of community and how kinship and even individual households fit into it, labor and wealth, leadership, and Homer's own relationship with and mastery of the bardic tradition he practiced.
This is a classical work of scholarship which provides complementary background to a reading of the Iliad and Odyssey.
I enjoyed reading it again.
Quite frankly, I don't know why anyone would see Homer as a good study of what was, but Finley's quasi rebuttal is packed full of data and insight.
He uses insights derived from studies of other peoples based on an oral tradition to assess how the Odyssey and Iliad might relate to historical fact.
(Poems like the Nibelungenlied and the Yugoslav poetry studied by Milman Parry include events and people known from more conventional historical sources, making this easier.)Finley manages to distinguish two kinds of writing in Homer, other than principally fanciful episodes (like the Cyclops encounter in the Odyssey).
The description of gift exchange, which closely parallels similar systems known to anthropologists, is ancient; similes involving iron are contemporary.Finley discusses many issues related to his theme, and is always interesting and convincing.
Finley supports his opinions with careful readings of Homer, opposing them against other Ancient Greeks (Hesiod, generally), and with the support of our knowledge of oral epics in other cultures and other ancient societies.
And the way he does it, carefully laying out an opinion and explaining why how he reached it, never comes across as overly academic - or in a way that talks down to his readers.In a nutshell, Finley lays out a thesis that neither The Iliad or The Odyssey have any real basis in fact: they may have been a Troy, but it certainly wasn't subject to a ten-year siege, for example, or that one can chart Odysseus' journey on a map.
Published in 1954, this short introduction to the culture of the society that may have created the Iliad and the Odyssey is a useful accompaniment to reading those works. The author uses information from a variety of sources, including Homer’s epics themselves. Succinct and occasionally dry, the book is packed with details. While obviously this does not reflect research from the past sixty-odd years, classic scholar Bernard Knox makes the case for the book’s continued relevance in his introduction
I read this book for the first time 12 years ago. I always remembered this as one of the most interesting history books I read. Now that I re-read the book, I am not disappointed. I find fascinating how M. I Finley uses concepts developed in anthropology to analyse Homer.
Hence as Thorstein Veblin phrased it, under "this common-sense barbarian appreciation of worth or honor, the taking of life...is honorable in the highest degree." Welcome to the world of Yassir Arafat and Osama bin Laden, a pair of hero thinkers.Homer's works have a great deal to contribute to the foreign policy idea of a "peace process" with the Arab Middle East, but who bothers to read Homer these days?Finley leaves us wondering how the cultural Greeks managed to shed the heroic underpinnings of their Bronze Age culture.
I really enjoyed this book.I read the Folio a Society edition.It is a little dated, but I think it would reward the effort for it's un-romantic discussion of the historicity of the events of Homer's epics and the society envisaged therein.The bibliographical essay in the back of the book and the two appendices are worth the price of the book. Coupled with Robin Land Fox's "traveling heros", these two books would give one a very good survey of different ways of approaching the Homeric problem.
Looking at Homer's works and the world they are set in.The rituals of gift exchange, the way they had a specific term for one's husband's brother's wife that later fell out of us when men started to set up their households while their fathers were still alive, social structure and those specialists who weren't in the aristocrats -- or heroes -- but were too valuable to be mere peasants, kingship and power, the morals (which Plato so deplored because of all the raids, or robbery), Odysseus's gratuitous lies, how the heroes were frequently called divine, and much more interesting stuff.
I must be really smart because this all seemed obvious to me
The major topics covered include the transmission of Greek literature, the writing and performance of Greek oral poetry, and ample information about the economic, social, and political organization of ancient Greek society to make sense of Homer’s story.The first chapter is a discussion of the Greek alphabet, some broad trends in Greek literature, and a summary of how the Greeks themselves viewed their myths.
The last chapters cover ground that, at least as far as I can tell, is less well-documented, including the economics of gift-giving (absolutely central to anyone who wants to understand The Odyssey at all), Homer’s theology, the monarchical system, and the function of the assembly (especially important in the Iliad).
To over-do my book-as-mirror metaphor, Finley looks into the Iliad and Odyssey as through a glass darkly to see if he can discern the society of which the poems are a reflection.
Finley claims that, except for a few identifiable anachronisms, the poems give a consistent and probable description of economic and social institutions of the time, information unavailable from other written records.The information Finley derives from the poems will be of interest to anyone looking for insight into certain aspects of Homer, but I am not clear on why it should necessarily be considered historically accurate.
Finley's World of Odysseus is a truly splendid introduction to the complex topic of the nature of Archaic Greek society.
It provides a wealth of cultural background to The Iliad and The Odyssey in a well-structured manner.I've heard the charge levied against this book that it is dated, but I don't agree.
It is old, certainly, and it lacks coverage of a few key architectural finds since its publication - but this does not affect its thoroughness (for the survey is otherwise so broad) nor does it affect its central thesis that the world of Odysseus was an honor-based society, driven by personal relationships in the cases of both men and gods.
I might not have liked this so much had I not literally just left Schliemann’s fantasy mansion in Athens and settled into that last appendix over (a few) glasses of wine. Sassy, sassy appendix II. But even so, for me, this was a different and strange way of looking at these poems. Some lingering anthropological intuitions tell me there’s something serious to be argued with here, but I’d have to reread it to tell you what precisely raised those scritchy not-right feelings. But I think it bears rereading, and arguing with. I mean, all the cool kids are doing it.
From the New York Review of Books Classics series, I read it as a supplement to "Early Greek Political Thought" in the Cambridge Texts in the History of Political Thought series. Finley argues that Homer's "Iliad" and "Odyssey" correctly reflect the society and morals of Ancient Greece from about 1250 BC.It's a world that comes across as very alien to us and even to the thought of later Greeks. There is nothing of the prudence and moderation of Aristotle's "Ethics". The Homeric heroes are conquering, plundering chieftains, sexually guiltless and with no conception of original sin.
După o uzuală speculație despre Homer, o denumire care pentru istoric ascunde doi autori, ne este explicat statutul celor două opere literare, în același timp și manuale, fundamentul religiei sau surse de modele etice.Să nu uităm că, atunci când Platon dorea să-i gonească pe poeți din cetatea ideală, el se referea, în principal, la Homer.
Așa s-ar explica asemănările și diferențele între ele, de pildă, Odiseea se petrece în Vest, întâlnim mai puțini zei, acțiunea se centrează în jurul lui Ulise.Civilizația miceniană se prăbușișe, din motive încă neclare, crize interne, migrație sau cucerire, lumea polis-urilor încă nu venise, deși unele elemente sunt anunțațe.
:)
كتاب يحتوي على معلومات قيّمة حول ملاحم هوميروس والتاريخ والمجتمع التي صِيغا داخلها.
3.5uneven. some parts 3, some parts 5; final essay /reflection on his work and book/ the best
A review of the Homeric world as understood by one of the foremost classicists of the mid 20th century.
Is a excellent book. An applause.
“The World of Odysseus” by M.L. Finley is one of the seminal works about Homer’s “The Iliad” and “The Odyssey.” Published in 1954, it has been reprinted numerous times. The copy I read is a 1988 reprint. Finley’s short work provides background and perspective for those two epic poems of 2,500 years ago, telling of the importance of Homer to the Greeks and to Western civilization, and examining chapter-by-chapter the morality, economics, and political life of what is now Greece during the time o
Finley’s short work provides background and perspective for those two epic poems of 2,500 years ago, telling of the importance of Homer to the Greeks and to Western civilization, and examining chapter-by-chapter the morality, economics, and political life of what is now Greece during the time of Homer and the Heroic Age centuries before.
The several paragraphs he spends on the gods and goddesses in ancient Greek life and those depicted in “The Iliad” and “The Odyssey” especially caught my interest.
These gods and goddesses mingled freely with the Greeks, and indeed were very much human; they were corporeal, possessed different personalities and skills, but were immortal and wielded superior powers.
