https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1282241.The_Great_Mother
I've heard/read the argument that ships and cars are referenced with a feminine pronoun because they are "used" by the active masculine.
This book (Neumann) suggests that the reason ships are often referred to in the feminine is because the ship itself bears a symbolic connection to the uterus, which is iconic of the safest space in which a person lives (the most protected...the womb).
Thus, referring to a ship as a "she" is actually a nod to the sacred feminine principle of ultimate protection in the form of the womb.
Okay, all you Jungians out there, start your engines! This is another classic take on mythology and folklore regarding the role of the feminine in civilization. Falls in the geek category, but fascinating in a geeky sort of way.
Challenging read! The first half was extremely hard to plow through, but the second half made up for it. This is a fascinating read. From my notes when I read it (pre-1998) I wrote: Neumann's Great Mother was very, very difficult to begin, but developed into one of the best books I have read describing the relation of history with psychology, in this case, with the feminine.
It's a classic. It might be useful if you know a little bit about Jung.
Desde una perspectiva jungiana, un examen del arquetipo de lo femenino, la Gran Madre, el círculo de transformación, las diversas fuguraciones de la diosa, desde el Paleolítico hasta su pervivencia, más allá de la represión que podría haber supuesto el patriarcado, en el cristianismo. Un libro bien documentado, muy interesante en cuanto al dominio mitológico que tiene, pero que sólo puede leerse bien si uno acata las teorías de Jung del inconsciente colectivo y del arquetipo.
This book is comprehensive in its coverage of the feminine archetype. Not being a full time Jung scholar this book was a bit tedious and pendantic read. I learned quit a bit but expect a dry and academic read
"the light fruit of the night tree"
An essential. Not the most engaging
now I understand Jung - well, no one really has "the right" to say that. But certainly this book takes you on the road towards understanding, towards the light.
Given the dearth of studies of syncretic, pan-human ideals and thought systems of great mother/mother goddess origin tales and adventures and whatnot, this is the standout book, but don't let the first section bog you down.
Some things are given surprising short thrift: little to nothing of post-antiquity, pre-Islamic stuff; things like Inanna, Freja, and a multitude of others are only mentioned tangentially, but there probably just wasn't time and space for E-Pro to milk the cosmic teat for all its worth.If you like theory and psychology, sure, whatever, then the first section is probably equally as rewarding, though I found it rather naive and superfluous.
Not a light read. Very interesting, though at times (as with most dense works) I had to force myself to keep reading. It fulfilled its purpose well, however, and I definitely came away with a better understanding of archetype, the Great Mother, and past and present history, sociology, and culture.
Erich Neumann was one of the very few analytical psychologists (aka Jungians) I have read who seemed to have anything at all to add to what C.G. Jung wrote. This is not one of his better books, being basically a long list of thematically arranged references to attributes of the 'feminine'.
I read this classic more years ago than I care to mention, and I still refer to it for inspiration. If you are interested in Divine Mother, this is a great resource.
An amazingly comprehensive study, this book was seminal to my own book, "The Age of the Mother." Neumann is always rewarding for anyone interested in depth psychology.
