https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/252502.Devil_Water
I have a little line graph in my head until I settle on my final rating.This is a book where the graph looked like the Swiss Alps until I ended up back where I started at 3*For me, a big part of the problem was when the story changed from Charles/James to Jenny.
I now know this is part of Seton's family history (which I didn't know till afterwards when I read the author's note) but I think Seton was probably hoping to discover more about the character of Jenny.
The book begins with a very detailed account of the early life of Charles Radcliffe, young brother to the 3rd Earl of Derwentwater who was executed for treason after the 1715 Jacobit uprising.
I think I would have enjoyed this story more had the author decided to begin with Jenny and fill in her family background as the story progressed.For those interested in English Jacobite history, particulalry the Uprising of 1715, I enjoyed Walter Besant's Dorothy Forster, another biographical fiction that relates many of these same events through the first person narrative of Dorothy Forster, sister to General Thomas Forster, a Northumberland MP, who like Charles Radcliffe, also escaped Newgate for France.
Once again, Anya Seton does not fail to engross. I completely forgot to take any notes for my review because I was so engaged in this tale. I always appreciate her novels because she is an author who knows how to fully research her storyline.
and the beautiful daughter he leaves behind, who finds passion and a new start in the New World.
Starting off with something familiar, she makes things get somehow sinister, somehow creepy, somehow twisted.
Doesn't Jenny seem to spend a lot of time flirting with her dad?
A lot of time .
. .Jenny is cute and helpless as an orphan girl, but by the time she's all grown up she's got a mean streak and a chip on her shoulder .
Gallant Sir Charles certainly was fond of his beautiful daughter .
I am so pleased that this author's novels are being reprinted, I have thoroughly enjoyed each and every one of them, especially Katherine.
Charles Radcliff, the younger brother has a secret marriage to a lower born woman who gives birth to the love of his life, his daughter Jenny.
I also enjoyed her way of writing different dialects (the Northumbrians, and the Virginia "twangs"), which definitely enhance the reading experience.
It's not quite up to the same par as Katherine (that's a 10 star book in my rating) or the Winthrop Woman but definitely worth the time, especially for any lover of historical fiction.
I have read this several times as I own an old copy and I really enjoy most of this book except toward the end I get very annoyed with how he treats his daughter. I guess that most anyone who likes English history would enjoy it.
From the back cover: Devil Water is the true story of Charles Radcliffe, a Catholic nobleman who joined in the doomed Jacobite rebellion of 1715, and of Jenny, his daughter by a secret marriage.
Set in the wilds of Northumbria, teeming London and colonial Virginia, Devil Water is a story of loyalty, passion, and courage in both the Old World and the New.My impression:Typical of Anya Seton this was a marvelous read.
Very little is known, however, about Jane "Jenny" Radcliffe or Rob Wilson so I leave those to Ms. Seton's data and take her word on them.
I read this in 8th grade when my English teacher turned me onto Anya Seton, and went on to reread it a few times. It was by far my favorite Seton novel, but I'm not sure if I could get through it today. Maybe a little too florid? However, the history was well-researched and so it's an entertaining way to learn about England during the Jacobite Rebellion and colonial Virginia.
I quite enjoyed the two previous Seton books I’ve read; her strength is in writing well-detailed historical novels with strong, entertaining plots, and in that regard this one is no different.
Seton’s books are certainly more immersive than those of many other historical fiction writers, who tend to skip over the description and assume readers will fill it in for themselves; Seton takes worldbuilding as seriously as many a fantasy writer and I always appreciate that.I’m of two minds about the characters.
They are fervently Catholic in a time when England is moving quickly toward Protestantism, and are supporters (to the death!) of "The Pretender", "King James III" (in quotes, because he was never recognized as King although he was technically next in succession, but he was Catholic and there was a new-ish law preventing Catholics from taking the throne).But the story more surrounds his daughter, Jenny (Jane), who was the result of a childhood affair with a country girl named Meg, whose father forced a marriage between them when he discovered her pregnancy, of course causing a scandal in the upper class life of Charles and his family.
Having previously read only one other book by Ms Seton -- The Winthrop Woman, which I enjoyed tremendously -- I had high hopes for Devil Water.
I was greatly disappointed, however, and almost put the book aside after the first 100 pages.
The thing that makes this book hard to like is that the characters themselves aren't very likable, and near the end (spoiler alert!) one of the characters perpetrates an act of violence against another that is so heinous it is unforgivable, and yet when those two characters come together again their reunion is heroic and full of passion.
This book is based on real people and history and it is well-researched, but the fiction that fills the blanks is too strange even for fiction.
It does seem to be a long streak of books that aren't taking me away...i don't know but This is another story that just didn't send me into another time and place...while yes the historical facts are amazing...albeit nothing I haven't read about (many times) before.
there are many books i have read that use this time frame...added nothing new for me to keep me from zoning out...the time frame would be fine if the characters and their lives made me want to walk with them through their tale...all i can say is I am happy I finally read DEVIL WATER and can cross it off my TBR list...however this is not a story I will read again.
But I have special prejudices--first, I have been fascinated with the Stuarts and Jacobites for years, and second, my sixth great grandfather appears as one of the book's historical figures in colonial Virginia.
This romantic and tragic story of Charles Radcliffe, the fiercely loyal cousin of Bonnie Prince Charlie, in some ways parallels Charles Stuart's own story.
And Charles Radcliffe's beautiful and loyal daughter, who spent her early years in the wilds of Northumbria and is in love with a commoner from that same wild and untamed area, reminds me of Catherine Earnshawe in Emily Bronte's Wuthering Heights.
The story seemed to not mesh well together and the characters always seemd a bit distint-you didn't get a feel for them or ingrain yourself into their lives which is what I enjoy so much about books.
For a short window of time you can become a completely different person and live separate life.
This book didn't do that for me which made it rather painful to read.
The back story about the Jacobite rebellion and the attention to historical detail is what saved it from being "wall banged." I have to give credit where credit is due-Seton sure does know her history.
A novel following the actual person of Charles Radcliff, younger brother of James, Earl of Derwentwater, who was one of the leaders of the Jacobite revolt in 1715.This book had me totally hooked from the very beginning.
I was never once bored or waiting to get away from some character and back to another one.
This book WOULD have been a 5 star, except for 1 way over the top incident about 70 pages from the end, from which, in my opinion, the book never recovered (or at least, my opinion of the book never recovered.)Other than that, it was a great book, and I'll be seeking out more Anya Seton.
It's donkey's years since I read this as a young teen. I absolutely loved it. Not sure I would now so don't want to re-read in case it spoils the memory. Probably quite dated now.
For example, I particularly do not like how Rob treated Jenny at times.The characters who stood out for me are Evelyn and Elizabeth Lee. The two characters had shown what true love is in their own ways.
On the other hand, it is very brave for Elizabeth Lee to take Jenny in her new life because of her love for Charles Radcliffe.
I also liked the closeness between best friends Jenny and Evelyn.How it sparked my interest about Jacobites astounds me in such a way that the gap between me and Anya Seton did not hinder the impact it would bring to me - and perhaps the same goes for others.
This is the first Anya Seton book that I had trouble finishing. I love Seton. She is an amazing author, however . . . . But the ending did make me cry. Based on real events in the 1700s, when England had a German king! while the real king, James, cooled his heels in France waiting for the nobles in England and Scotland to fight for his return. All I can say is of all her wonderful books, this is the one I don't recommend.
I read this as a teen and loved it. Jenny is one of the most loyal heroines. She's loyal to a stubborn man who expects her to deny her past and love him on his terms, and she's loyal to her selfish father who expects her to drop everything and come when he calls. The Hanover court and the Colonial Virginia come to life. This is well researched and well written
The Jacobite revolution has always been confusing to me, and I was looking forward to this book to clarify things. When it comes to historical fiction, Anya Seton is the real deal, and this romantic tale, filled with authentic characters in early Georgian England and Colonial America is sometimes slow moving, but always informative.
A fascinating story based on history and taking us from Northumberland to VirginiaThis is a book I read as a teenager and didn't disappoint on revisiting. The romantic Jacobite Charles Radcliffe is brought to life with his daughter and her adventurous history. Anya Seton's scholarship and writing are stunning.
History made excitingI love history of Great Britain and the colonial period of the U.S.. Anya's words add color and depth to what could be a dry subject. Jenny and Charles trials ripped at my heart.
Letto da ragazzina, consigliato da mia nonna.Ritrovato per caso tanti anni dopo.Rilettura non deludente.
Didn't finish.
Through wily means, Charles escapes from the Tower and heads to France.Time passes quickly as Jenny grows into a young woman.
Her lowborn mother dies, freeing Charles to marry again, and he makes a surreptitious visit to England to reveal himself to his daughter and gain her mother’s death certificate.
Jenny uses her own money to free Rob. The two marry and set up a homestead in the colonies, living happily–although childless–for over a decade.In time, news comes that the Jacobites have revolted again, and once again, Charles Radcliffe is in the Tower of London.
Normally I adore Anya Seton, but I struggled to finish this book.
I had to put it down and read something else before returning to finish it, which does not happen often.
Jenny and Rob's fate is certainly an example of Seton's novels showing their age.
It's the same reason why I couldn't fully enjoy the ending of Green Darkness.Have I already read the best of Seton's works, and the dropoff after them is steep?
I have two more Seton novels to go (not counting the YA works), so I suppose I'll eventually find out.
The overall verdict: decent but would not recommend.It took me a good 100 pages before I got into this book.
The POV is much more constant by the end of the book (primarily only Charles and Jenny), but still never really works.Throughout the book, I found myself questioning why the character was acting like this.
This is probably Seton's attempt at foreshadowing, but it was completely out of character in this part of the book and did not elevate the storyline at all.
The book begins with a very detailed account of the early life of Charles Radcliffe, young brother to the 3rd Earl of Derwentwater who was executed for treason after the 1715 Jacobit uprising.
I think I would have enjoyed this story more had the author decided to begin with Jenny and fill in her family background as the story progressed.For those interested in English Jacobite history, particulalry the Uprising of 1715, I enjoyed Walter Besant's Dorothy Forster, another biographical fiction that relates many of these same events through the first person narrative of Dorothy Forster, sister to General Thomas Forster, a Northumberland MP, who like Charles Radcliffe, also escaped Newgate for France.
Devil Water, Anya Seton.- Biography of Jacobite James Radcliff, 3rd Earl of Derwentwater, Dilston, Northumberland.
1689-1716, Royal Tudor & Stuart Lineage to King James 1688-1766 and Bonny Prince Charlie Stuart 1720-1788 - Biography of Jacobite Charles Radcliff, titular 5th Earl of Derwentwater, Dilston, Northumberland.
Jacobite Uprising to restore a Stuart King the the throne of England: To me it seems like unnecessary killings and lives wasted for something they were not at all sure will ever happen.
I can only guess what hard work went into this book to get all the facts together and to try and paint a picture for the reader with limited information about numerous chapters in the character's lives.
Charles Radcliffe and his older brother, James, the Earl, join a revolution to foist the German king from the throne of England and replace him with “the Pretender,” the “true king of England,” James.
The rest of the novel covers Charles’s prison escape, subsequent run on the lam, remarriage, and relationship with his child, Jenny.[return][return]What I particularly liked about this novel is the ever-changing locale—from the northern moors of England to the soot-swept streets of London to the brisk winds of Calais to the green-gilded lands of Virginia.
The love story between Jenny and Rob is predictable and trite, and truly detracted from an otherwise epic saga.
