https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16306.Miss_Marple
I'm reading this with the Reading the Detectives as part of their Miss Marple Challenge. As the Miss Marple Short stories originally appeared in two books   and   this book will be going on my "in hibernation" shelf for a while. If I don't jot down my thoughts on the stories I've read. My aging memory just won't retain the information until December.I'll start with the general comment that the Tuesday Night Club  mysteries that begin the book are very early works and are overall weaker than the
4.5★The Four SuspectsI read this one twice as I thought I must have missed something, but no, I hadn't - a lot of assumptions (view spoiler)[ (like the butcher really was delivering meat so he couldn't have been up to anything nefarious!) (hide spoiler)] 2★  A Christmas Tragedy First equal from all the stories for me.
Or is she giving her detective a harsher opinion than she herself holds (hide spoiler)]I thought the murder was ingenious & worked well in the short story format.
(hide spoiler)]A little over complicated for a short story, but still clever 4★Death by DrowningWow!
My grandmother had a number of books in a bookcase in the guest bedroom, mostly historical fiction, religious biographies, and birdwatching guides.
I spent that night polishing off short story after short story, got in trouble around 2 a.m. for having my reading light on, only to slink under the covers with a flashlight as soon as my grandmother returned to bed to continue reading.
Miss Marple, the aged but acute sleuth, became the love of my summer.
Poirot is probably the most celebrated of Christie's characters, but Miss Jane Marple taught me that a literary sleuth does not have to be male or young in order to be captivating.
Agatha Christie is the most widely published author of all time, outsold only by the Bible and Shakespeare. Her books have sold more than a billion copies in English and another billion in a hundred foreign languages. I don't know about you, but I think that's a pretty impressive back cover blurb. This complete collection of Miss Marple stories is my first experience with the famous spinster/amateur sleuth, and it was enjoyable, even if the long time St. Mary Mead's resident didn't stack up to
Agatha Christie is the most widely published author of all time, outsold only by the Bible and Shakespeare.
This complete collection of Miss Marple stories is my first experience with the famous spinster/amateur sleuth, and it was enjoyable, even if the long time St. Mary Mead's resident didn't stack up to Sherlock Holmes in my mind.
Aunt Jane is quite a character nonetheless, and I can understand her appeal both when the stories where released and even now.Bottom line: a nice collection of classic mystery shorts, which will most likely appeal to mystery fans, but particularly those who enjoy Christie's many other works.
The Idol House of Astarte (3.5 stars)-Another murder mystery told by Dr. Pender (introduced in the first story) tells about a man who unexpectedly stabbed though no one was near him when he was injured.
The Blue Geranium (5 stars)-Told by Colonel Bantry (from The Body in the Library) I thought the whole story was well done and the final solution quite clever.
Mrs. Bantry is one of my favorite re-occurring characters in the Miss Marple books so it was great to get a story told by her.
Tuesday weekly visitors present six early experiences, recently solved usually by confession of participants: Sir Henry Clithering ex-Commissioner of Scotland Yard, nephew writer Raymond West, artist Joyce Lemprière, elderly clergyman Dr Pender, wizened bespectacled solicitor Mr Petherick.
(view spoiler)[Sketching one year later, deja vu, Joyce observes Denis with a new name and new wife, but Jane already guessed.
(hide spoiler)]18 The Case of the Caretaker - Dr Haydock brings Jane a story to solve from his niece Clarice Vane, friend of beautiful heiress, whose new husband village scapegrace Harry Laxton rebuilt Kingsdean.
While not as intricately plotted (obviously, given the constraints imposed by length) as the Miss Marple novels, these are good examples of the art of writing detective stories.
There are some delicious, even definitely spooky mysteries (How did a reddish-pink geranium on a wallpaper turn blue, shortly after the invalid in the room had been warned by a fortune teller that a blue geranium would mean death for her – as it did?
Not every story is perfect; there are a few – Miss Marple Tells A Story, for example, or The Case of the Perfect Maid – which seemed a little too far-fetched to me, as far as their resolution was concerned.
That said, there are some rather unpleasant things scattered throughout her work that bear mentioning in light of modern common standards of decency.
One could be reading along, fully immersed in the village life or bustling city, and all of a sudden a character will drop an ethnic slur and none of the other characters even bat an eye.
It's quite jarring and immediately reminds one that her works were completed between two and three generations ago when the world seemed to be quite a different place.
There is also, more often than the ethnic slurs, I believe, a casual sort of animosity towards Jewish people that must be reckoned with.
Just great.
It has one of my favorites - it sends me to Google every time.
As an American I have no knowledge of "all my eye and Betty Martin".
Even after looking it up, it makes no sense to me.Although it may have been the first time for "Sanctuary".
That one didn't seem to ring any bells.I did notice on this read a number of elements of later novels of hers.
Maybe like Eugene O'Neill she never wasted a scene or a plot-line.This is at least the second time I have read these stories, or at least most of them.
Twenty short stories all featuring my favorite Christie character, Miss Jane Marple. This book is perfect to pick up any time and reminds me of an expensive box of assorted chocolates--each story is different from the others and each is totally delicious.
.
THE COMPLETE MISS MARPLE SHORT STORIES.
The stories span Christie’s publishing career from the early 1930s to the late 1970s, and you can watch Miss Marple evolve over the years.
We all have out image of Miss Marple.
Jane Marple, as far as we know, has never been married, and her circle of friends are mostly people from the village.
In any event, all the stories are here and they are all enjoyable, and well worth reading again.
In an introduction by Stella Duffy, she makes the observation that “Miss Marple is far from being the gentle old soul of our popular myth.
She often mystifies her listeners by recalling, after hearing the details of a particular instance, of an instance that she knows of personally that happened to someone in St. Mary Mead that seems to have no bearing on the current instance, and which leaves her listeners thinking she is becoming a dotty old woman; but invariably she is able to use her knowledge of life in a small English village to solve murder mysteries that have left everyone else baffled.These stories were published originally between 1932 and 1979, but they age remarkably well (as does Miss Marple).
At a gathering everyone is encouraged to tell a story of a previously unsolvable mystery to see if anyone could solve the puzzle.
Predictably, in each story, no one else has a clue as to who or how the crime was committed other than Jane Marple.
People who like to figure out puzzles would enjoy these shorts.
I had a library copy copy that I couldn't renew, so I had to send it back unfinished.
Time to remove it from my current reading list - hah - and move on.
I'm glad I read some of the stories but overall they just weren't challenging enough for me.
I'm a big fan of Miss Marple.I've owned this book for many years.
I thoroughly enjoyed this collection of short stories, which I’d never read but had seen some dramatized by BBC (I especially remember the one about theBlue Geranium, yikes!)I enjoyed them all, and am glad I was finally able to fill in the blanks in my knowledge of my favorite little old lady detective and how she got her start!
I was first a fan of Poirot in my teens and twenties and read the Miss Marple novels but didn’t really learn to appreciate this sweet, fluffy old lady with “a mind like a sink” until I watched Joan Hickson play her for the BBC.
Very private and reserved lady.) What I hadn’t appreciated was that the written stories actually distance Miss Marple from most of the events and take the form of tales told at her house.
The adaptations generally set her amongst the action, sometime even placing her in danger, but the written stories tend not to do that at all.The tales are written in Christies no-nonsense, straightforward style.
The village setting could have been claustrophobic, but Christie’s ability to connect the locality with the wider world enables the reader to see the ubiquity of human nature.
And it is human nature that most features in these tales.A gentle and undemanding read.
I have an almost complete collection of Agatha Christie and I love her!!! Back in the early 90s I made a concerted effort to read every one of her books. I didn't succeed! But I sure enjoyed the attempt! I don't like most modern murder mysteries, but I like the puzzle-solving aspect of A. C. too! Hey Morning Star, you must be a fan of G. K. Chesterton and the Father Brown mysteries too, I'll bet?! And have you read my review on "Gardens of the Dead"? The sleuth is a modern British monk! Excellen
I have an almost complete collection of Agatha Christie and I love her!!! Back in the early 90s I made a concerted effort to read every one of her books. I didn't succeed!  But I sure enjoyed the attempt! I don't like most modern murder mysteries, but I like the puzzle-solving aspect of A. C. too! Hey Morning Star, you must be a fan of G. K. Chesterton and the Father Brown mysteries too, I'll bet?! And have you read my review on "Gardens of the Dead"? The sleuth is a modern British monk! Excellent! http://okie-booklady.blogspot.com/200...
I love this collection. I could read it every week! I'm particularly fond of the first set, generally known as the Tuesday Club Murders or Thirteen Problems. These short stories are a great introduction to Miss Marple and the way in which she goes about solving crimes (the well-known village parallel). The writing is particularly evocative and you can clearly picture a white-haired woman carefully counting stitches in the corner, listening to everything being said and quietly solving the mystery without anyone noticing.
I do like Agatha Christie stories. Miss Marple is so unassuming and modest, lives in a small town, and enjoys her neighbors. She's my kind of person. I particularly like the way she finds solutions to mysteries based on her past experiences. I like for experiences to pay off in the future. Christie has black and white characters, another thing I really like. Example: "Miss helier paused, slightly out of breath, and it was borne in upon her audience that the outside of Jane's charming head was distinctly superior to the inside."
#76 - 2010. I read all these in different editions, many when they first came out long ago. They prove just as entertaining now as they did then, and in many cases I don't remember the stories well, which is a bonus. There is no one for sniffing out wickedness in basic human behavior like a spinster lady who has lived in a little village, as gentle Miss Marple continually must remind those around her.
I loved these in high school, and still enjoy them now. Classic short mystery stories with an unassuming detective who uses her observation and common sense to see what no one else does. I guess I just enjoy the underdog showing everyone else up--and showing that even unmarried women have value in the world.
I loved these short stories, which is saying something because I don't usually read short stories! I thought Miss Marple was a fascinating character. She's so intelligent yet so unsuspecting. It's amazing how observant she is and how well she seems to know people. These stories were definitely worth the read!
Like an Encyclopedia Brown for adults, this collection of short mysteries revisits the (now) classic tropes of detective fiction. Readers who want something quick and tasty between novels can turn to this and feel eminently entertained. I suspect this was as much about character study for Mme. Christie as it was an intellectual exercise.
A very fun collection of who-done-its.
I just wish it was longer.
It helped lay the foundation for any other Miss Marple story.
Just how did a former Scotland Yard inspector gain such confidence in an elderly spinsters opinions?
How does everyone know she is so perceptive?
This book explains all that so wonderfully.
It was quite a varied collection.
There was even a spooky ghost story.
Some of the stories had a foul word or two, but most of them had none.
The story with the most was  The Idol House of Astarte .
This was really excellent. Each story was great and it held my attention throughout.
For those who are Agatha Christie devotees, as I am, reading her short stories [as well as her longer books] is a joy. This book was published in 1985 and a number of the stories had been previously published, some under different names. Reading several of them, I realized I had read them before. But I enjoyed each and every one!
Liked.
This is so nice when you want interesting, short murder mysteries and you don't want too much Miss Marple stuffed down your windpipe. I love reading murder mysteries after I get out of the pool so I've been getting so much out of this book lately!I would recommend to any Agatha Christie fan, if they want just a quick read for a little bit. Interesting and unexpected - and short! ;)
Miss Marple seems made for short stories.
I've never been much for mysteries and although I'm curious as I read, I don't feel any urge to solve them myself. From that standpoint, the first few stories didn't do much for me, but as the book went in, the crimes and how they are solved grew on me.
