https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30228.Micah
From then on they seem to turn more and more into porn, starting soft and steadily progressing into hardcore, whereas they used to be a really great exploration of what a world where the paranormal mixes with the normal would be like.So, basically, I stopped buying them but will still pick them up from the library, or if I see them at a garage sale for cheap.That said, Micah, which is 3 books ago in the series and I hadn't read, well, I'm up to page 100 and Anita still hasn't 'f*cked someone's brains out', as Laurell so quaintly describes Anita's sexual escapades now.
I really dislike writing negative reviews, but this is one of my least favorite books in this series.
Total bummer.When you're reading a series and one of the main characters, one of whom you adore, takes the spotlight in a book all his own ...
Blake needs to raise a zombie for the courts and in order to survive the ardeur, she must bring a sweetie with her or ravage some unworthy stranger.Micah accompanies her, and although there are mild disagreements between them, it’s more or less a yawn grasping story.I really should give this review my full attention and try to point out some interesting aspects but unfortunately, there are none.Zombie.
What a piece of crap. I picked it up at the airport, and I should have left it on the plane.
In this little short story we get to see once again that Micah is way too good for Anita.
He is such a nice guy, but way too easy to steamroll.
And, Anita is the definition of a steamroller.
Of course this makes Anita nervous and bitchy.
gifts.Also, there is a scene where Micah talks about his brother, and Anita says that she didn't even know he had siblings.
If you go to the grocery store, you leave with milk, bread, and a few new friends.)So, basically, this was just another book highlighting the selfish bitchiness of our main character.
I promised myself I wouldn't read past Obsidian Butterfly, but then I was given this for free and I have to see if it's as awful as I think it's going to be... signs are pointing to yes.Page 136 edit: The sex, OMG the sex... I don't think I'll ever stop laughing...Jesusfuck, why do I do this to myself?
I hate Micah and I hate novellas disguised as novels. This was a waste of time and about the point I started hating Anita. Mind you I still buy her books, but I think part of me just wishes she would get shot a spend about three books in a coma.
Ellen Degeneres' Seriously...I'm Kidding is the same length, and I think I may have liked that one better.Anyway, after the atrocity that was Incubus Dreams, a largely plotless book that spent more time with Anita hopping in an out of guys' pants than any crime, I wasn't sure I'd ever return to this series.
And as long as you forget the rape-y shower scene in Narcissus in Chains, you might find yourself liking Micah quite a bit more.But just because this book is better than "Dreams", doesn't mean it's fabulous and I'm an Anita Blake fan.
Micah.From what I remember, this book was supposed to have been a novella but was later added as #13 in the series.
Anita gets sent out of town to raise the dead and she takes Micah because of that lovely arduer that she's plagued with.
Didn't really need to know that but apparently Hamilton is obsessed with constantly talking about sizes because she spends almost an entire chapter talking about how big Micah is...even though this has been mentioned in every book he's been in since.
I also like that we got to go back to the beginning in terms of Anita actually raising the dead and doing police work.
This book had no ending. Hell, it didn't even have a beginning. I thought I'll really like this one, expected to like it more than the others. But I guess people are right, the series is really going downhill. This story was short and pretty boring, I got used to more exciting stories.
If I had to pinpoint the exact moment my heart broke while reading this book, it would have to be when Micah earnestly explains to Anita how he'd been unsuccessful in prior relationships due to the enormous size of his wang.
Luckily, Anita is there for him, to love him in all the ways his previous girlfriend couldn't, and to help him begin the healing process.To be fair, I read this book after I had already "broken up" with LKH over Incubus Dreams, but it was in the dollar bin at the used book store, and I got all nostalgia-faced about Anita Blake and couldn't resist picking up.
Micah by Laurell K hamilon, was a fake book.
Here we have the 245 page new installment in the Antia Blake series, but it's just a filler… Remember when you were in school, and your teacher assigned you a certain number of page paper to do?
This has the largest ever typeface, sooo spaced out, borders around each page, a whole blank page for each new chapter… She used every trick in the book to fill up her quota.
You can even skip this book in the series and never realize you did.
This is really the end of the series for me. This book is just an sexathon between two of the characters. I could have saved my money and suggest you save yours.
Exploration is not the same as repetition especially in a novella where we have limited space to actually develop things.One thing I was eager to see was some development of Micah.
As one of Anita’s main men – growing ever more important – it would be nice for him to be more than the Giant Kitty Cock (there’s a mental image for you).Of course, this being the Anita Blake Series, “development” means “big load of angst.” So we get Micah angst… about being a wereleopard (therefore a monster) and having a huge cock (and how this made dating hard).Y’know it could be an interesting thing to examine that the much vaunted mega-penis of doom actually has a downside, that most women don’t actually want anything to do with a penis the size of their arm and that it’s very easy to be fetishized because of it.
I was so pissed off when I got home and opened the book.
The story was the usual "I'm Anita Blake.
LKH's books are just like scooby doo with TONS of sex.
It's always the ominous person you meet in the beginning of the book.
The first few are pretty good until Anita turns in into a psycho slut.
Although if you are into erotica books then you might enjoy these.
LKH should probably go ahead and drop the whole story line part because this is obviously the direction she wants to take this series.
First of all, what would normally be five chapters or so in any other book has been stretched out (with large margins, extra spacing between words and lines, and a full page for each chapter number) into twelve.
Anita gets asked by Larry to take one of his zombie-raising jobs at the last minute, and she takes Micah with her, you know, for the sex.
In the last chapter, Anita wakes up in the hospital and is told that ho-hum, everything turned out fine.
From a blog post I wrote in 2006:This addition to Laurell K Hamilton's Anita Blake series was disappointing.I felt like it was mostly a throwaway story.
(That sentence really only makes sense to someone who's read some of these books, I realize.) It's their first time being alone and Anita freaks out about the intimacy (which she does in every dang book), we get Micah's backstory and find out that Anita has an even stronger connection to the dead now.It could all have been told in a few pages of exposition in another book.
There just didn't feel like enough here to justify its own tome.
I've enjoyed this whole series, which is why it pains me to give this one only two stars. I noticed (before reading) that it had a low GR rating. But I thought that had to be wrong, because this is Anita Blake. Well to my total dismay....I think the GR rating is actually quite generous, because I can only give it 2 stars, (and I feel like that is being generous.) I'm almost embarrassed to have people see that I read this. It was SO NOT MY KIND of book. I just have one question.....Where was the plot?
He tries to set up a little romantic getaway for them because they’ve never really had any long length of time together, and Anita wigs out because she can’t figure out what it means, how she’s supposed to feel, and because she’s stupid like that and can’t appreciate a good thing.
It’s kind of tiring to watch her go through the same things over and over again – just attaining new scars, but not really becoming more comfortable with the men/vampires/werethings she’s involved with romantically.
It’s not as though I’d want to see her settle down…I just like a little more, oh, I dunno, plot, action to go along with my steamy scenes.
Anita is off to Philadelphia to raise a zombie for a court case but with the ardeur being an issue, Micah insists on going with her for the trip.
She then gets mad at Micah for booking them into a plush hotel instead of the cheap motel that the FBI were going to supply them with.
After the meal she then starts thinking about how quickly she had sex with Micah after meeting him for the first time and how he has never asked her about all her scars and she goes into ANOTHER mood.
And as she does in every book in the series, she starts brooding over everything.
It's just sad how the avid readers of the series seems to be slipping away because of how the story progress from being awesome to this.
What the reason why I still read the series?
I still enjoy reading the series with all the action but still hoping that the sex part would be lessen.
And lastly, I am still praying that Hamilton will turn this series around.
Hell yes.Do I love it as much as I love the first half of the series, no.Will I still continue reading it?
Yes.Should you read it?
This was the book that convinced me to not read the Anita Blake series any further. It started going downhill after Obsidian Butterfly, but this got patently ridiculous. At least the Merry Gentry series has always been all about the smut with bits of plot instead of pretending to be a detective series.
Micah finally starts to show a bit of what he's been thinking this whole time and the insight into his character goes a long way in explaining his calm demeanor.Anita and Micah are in Philadelphia on this trip, but just about nothing of the city is shown.
The thing that really made this novella worth the read was that we finally start getting some answers - more than just theories - about what's going on with Anita metaphysically.
The news Anita gets will do much to shape future books in the series.Micah is a very quick read, which is refreshing after the long winded Incubus Dreams.
Don't get me wrong I enjoy a good sex scene a lot but in the previous book, Incubus Dreams, it was OUT OF CONTROL!!
I think in ONE night, Anita had sex like FIVE TIMES!!!!
All but one of those 5 scenes had another character either taking part in some way, or watching while laying in bed with Anita and "fill in blank" In this book there was only one sex scene and it was not a group activity so that was much better.
I read a few reviews and a lot of the opinions lie with not liking him.
We learned a bit about Micah and saw an interesting zombie case, but there weren't any real developments above and beyond the blood test results, which were reiterated in the beginning of "Danse Macabre".Character wise, the only ones we really saw besides Micah and Anita were Larry (via phone) and Nathaniel at the beginning and end.
The scene with Nathaniel at the end was my favorite part of the book.
*g* And Micah's comment about Asher watching Nathaniel at the beginning was the new tidbit I most wanted to see explored.
Sorry Micah fans.Then there was the comment about the roses.
Is putting out a book a year draining you too much?
Micah is a novella dressed up to look like a full novel.
The plotline is barely there, the characterizations are shallow, and everything just seems wooden & unlikable.
The book is actually just as cheaply done as anything else, as the spacing is overdone in order to stretch out a 100-ish page novel out into 300-ish pages.
If this had been published as a short story I wouldn't have minded the barely there plotline or dull characters.
But as a novel, let alone as an actual numbered book in the series?
OMG this was a terrible book.
The whole series up till this one was kinda interesting if oversexed.
Then this piece of trash came out.
I can sum up the whole story very quickly for you.
OMG my boyfriends thing is SO huge, omg I might be pregnant, omg my boyfriends thing is SO huge, omg I am SO weird about relationships, omg my boyfriends thing is SO huge, omg I am SO weird about relationships, omg my boyfriends thing is SO huge, I killed something, omg my boyfriends thing is SO huge and I am so weird about relationships.
Micah is probably my favorite man in a Anita's life, second only to Jean-Claude.
I love the balance he brings, being so opposite of Anita, and I'm really glad that LKH wrote this book because while I've given up on the series for the most part, I was happy to read more about Micah.
He kinda gets pushed aside for men that have been in Anita's life longer, and then pushed aside to make room for even more men and he's such an easy character to love.
It was wonderful to read their little side adventure.
I have to admit.
I did not buy this novel.
It was given to me.
For that I'm thankful I didn't have to shell out money for it.
I was expecting more about Micah and his backstory, instead I got backstory on how big his dick was.
Sorry not interested.
One thing that allowed me to give it two stars instead of one, is that, for a surprising change, there is a bit of a plot to this novel and it wasn't filled with pornographic beastiality sex scenes.
LKH continues to disappoint this fan who used to love her story telling, not her porn.
it was too short. I loved it. more info on our mysterious Micah. sigh.
Micah is the thirteenth in LKH’s Anita Blake: Vampire Hunter series of lots and lots of sex, racy dialog, with one of her lovers, Micah. Damn if I didn’t want to jump into this book to play the role of Micah.I wanted so much to be Micah in the nice hotel room trip down memory lane when Anita pulled him to her chest. OOO-RAH!! Being “not small” provoked a lot of dialog including the “Old Double Standard” reference to males only wanted sex.  “Be careful where you point that, it might go off!!  The
Micah is the thirteenth in LKH’s Anita Blake: Vampire Hunter series of lots and lots of sex, racy dialog, with one of her lovers, Micah.
Anita seems to like well-endowed men and couldn’t walk even if the fire alarm sounded.This is all about Anita’s relationship with Micah, who goes with her to Philadelphia to perform a zombie animation including some weird twists.
And of course, Anita is injured and knocked unconscious at the animation but her zombie came to the rescue along with Micah.
This adult extra erotica Anita book was full of sex and intrigue and most enjoyable.
