https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/474623.Technical_Analysis_of_Stock_Trends
Robert Edwards' book seem to fit well for the job, as it's technical analysis targeted at long-term equity investing, which is as close to what I do everyday as the subject can be.Guess what: despite the naive and non-sense criticism of fundamental analysis that the author lays out in the beginning of the book, I actually found some chapters enjoyable.
If you've already made your mind about using technical analysis to invest in the markets, then I would advise you to go for some of techniques in this book, as they might give you a way to start investing without imposing the potential damage to your assets that other technical methodologies that foster a lot more of short-term trading might do.
If technical analysis works like proponents say it should, how come that everyone who reads a technical analysis book doesn't become the world's best, or at least, more than successful trader.
I mean, the concepts are not that hard to learn, and understanding only takes a bit of time, espeically if you want to be a trader.
However, technical analysts tend to pick and choose those charts that prove their theory and technique correct and ignore all of those other instances, and there are literally millions of them, that disprove what they say.
This book explains technical analysis ok, but technical analysis is more of a religion than an actual empirical science.
"This 1950s book is arguably #1 all-time classic & best book on chart patterns ever written. It is considered as 'The Bible of Technical Analysis' by many."
Don't bother with any other TA book--you would just be wasting your time. Pick up this one instead!
Ch. 3 (I believe) offers an excellent account of Dow Theory and Dow's view of waves. Dow theory is far richer than the simple notion of confirmation by Transports, and is quite elegant.John Magee used to have tacked on his wall the famous quote: "Don't tell me what to buy...; tell me when to buy it."This is an excellent, excellent book.
Delivered what if promised.
a classic technical analysis book that is largely theoretical in an area largely devoid of predictive capability.
Educational in every sense..good culmination of everything,
Ut uf I gugug u gug I ohiyf 6 tv 65f65gi 4c ut b4 4
It's a classic
Even though I am thorough with Technical analysis, I started this book just to gain insights into TA through wide examples in our history of trading.
For the new reader who has no idea about trading and how it works this book is very thorough from start to end to giving the information one needs if they are new to markets.
FYI Do not buy this buy if you think this book will give you some magical advantage in markets and you would stop taking losses.
If anyone thinks that TA can make you rich just by reading the book, YOU ARE WRONG.
It's language is so formal, therefore reading it was diffucult at start, but then people get used to its language.
Overall, it was one of the best book I have ever read about the Technical Analysis.
It is not giving you some cliche ideas to memorise it.
It is making you understand what that chart actually means, why the chart is morphing like that, what actuall outcome can be waited out of it, and what could be done on those outcomes..I definitelly will read this book again after 2-3 months later.
And even I might read 3rd time after 1-2 years later.
The bible of technical analysis. If you're interested in this subject start here. It's pretty long but full of valuable info.
I think this book will help me a lot, and also wish so
DL027832 ND6
NA
This is the class book on TA. I read it awhile ago and still rely on it although covers stocks that no longer exist. Of course, now there is much more detailed short term ta.
Not is not just a so called bible.It is more than a bible for a trader and must have for every trader.
The best book to start with technical analysis. The examples provided are also relative. A novice analyst should read it once.
Good
