https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/384687.The_Hillside_Stranglers
Added to that is the depictions of the gruff, cynical and world weary mentality of the investigators, particularly Detectives Frank Salerno and especially Bob Grogan, whose rough edged view of the California seedier side was reminiscent to that of a sewer system, a man who yearned for a Biblical flood to wash all the garbage away.Lurking in that garbage were two men-Angelo Buono and Kenny Bianchi-cousins, who were linked by their conscious-less sex fetish depravity to abduct, rape, torture, sodomize and strangle ten females without remorse; the more horrific they could be, the better they liked it, and from 1977 to 1979, the hills of Los Angeles would be the dumping ground where these innocent victims would be placed.
Disturbing beyond belief yet definitely well researched, The Hillside Stranglers is like reading a criminology file, and it's one of the most extensive and suspenseful books I've ever read.
Gruesome just gruesome One of the best true crime books I’ve read
Very disturbing but a graphic and grotesque wake up call to the kind of evil present in our society.
I lived in Glendale at the time of these murders and well remember the fear we all lived under.
I remember that after we all found out of Buono's guilt, we were especially horrified when we realized that we had used his shop!
Then as I read the book, I also discovered that one of the teachers at my school (which was about a mile from Buono's shop) was involved in the case, having literally rescued one of the girls when Buono and Bianchi tried to force her into their car.
Buono has since died, amd Bianchi lives in prison in Washington.
Unbelievable! Great read, review to come.
Comprehensive and thorough investigation into the crimes and trials of the Hillside StranglersMr. O'Brien has written the quintessential account of the murder spree perpetrated by Angelo Buono and Kenneth Bianchi and done so in a manner that reads like a novel.
The nearly 450 pages are filled with facts that are so bizarre the story probably wouldn't have been accepted it offered in the form of a novel.
While these murders occurred nearly forty years ago, the crimes were so horrendous and the two cousins who committed them so lacking in any sense of compassion or remorse, they are still unfathomable to most people today.
I believe to do this would allow these men to escape responsibility for their actions.
This book took me awhile but not because it wasn't good. It was amazing and incredibly disturbing. This is the first true crime I have read in awhile and the author was great at starting by getting into the minds of the killers, and that is what was creepy and disturbing. Excellent writing! The last part about the trial and all the players therein was also amazing. I would highly recommend this one. I learned a lot that I did not know. I was a child when this was going on and I do remember it making national news.
I really appreciate Darcy O'Brien's approach to true crime. This book is pretty hard to take though. I had no idea of the details of these crimes, though I remember the period when they were occurring. I still like O'Brien's  Murder in Little Egypt (5 stars) for its meticulous picture of a relatively isolated part of the country and a way of life. In contrast, The Hillside Stranglers is only enlightening about the murders themselves and the relationship between the criminals.
Wholly disturbing. Period. I don't feel like this account really delves into the murderers minds to give you any kind of perspective regarding why they did this. But, this book does give a graphic account of each of the murders and does a fair job of describing the trial and outcome .
I read this a long time ago but I can remember it being one scary book. Angelo Bono and Kenneth Bianchi were modern day boogeymen. The book was well written enough to have me looking over my shoulder when I walked down the street.
Appalling, sickening portrait of two cousins who really should have been drowned at birth. This is one of those rare true-crime stories that reads like great, great fiction. Very hard to put down, if you can stand to read it at all.
Gruesome but fascinatingThis book was well written and well researched. The details of the murders were hard to read, but the rest of the book was fascinating. The courtroom drama was almost unbelievable. All in all a great book.
Horrifying.
Again, as with most true crime, fascinating, but horrifying.
I have a fascination with serial murder cases, and this one doesn't disappoint. It was well-written and high interest, with plenty of information about this real-life case I didn't know.
I feel like there's a little too much room for dramatisation in that respect and it has me wondering if that really happened the way the author described it.
I really liked the Judge and the way he handled the case.While I had an issue with the interpretation of the author at times, I did enjoy the information he provided us by his thorough investigation into the case.
I think it was the fact that he had a more personal view, being privy to specific information and talking to those who worked on the case, that did give his writing at times a special spark.
Ok for starters, this book is a trip because it's about some murders that take place in the sixties and seventies in hollywood.
There are tons of prostitutes and strippers, and once they start getting murdered the cops are interrogating all kinds of scuzzy witnesses.
They often hypnotize their witnesses too, which is totally commonplace in Hollywood, apparently.
The story follows the investigation and the murderers themselves, and lemme tell you, once they start evading the police shit gets wack.
The killers impersonate the police, the police impersonate prostitutes, and there are tons of psychic witnesses.
Recommend to anyone who enjoys true crime.It reads somewhat like a fiction book (I mean, there’s dialogue, friends), especially at the beginning, and has incredible detail that is worked into the book so well that it never feels overwhelming.
Super interested to read other books by this author!This case is maddening and incredibly sick, however I enjoyed learning about it as I’d never heard of it before (strange, I’m a true crime fanatic).
I would 100% read this again — one of the best true crime stories I’ve ever read!
This book is truly disturbing, and as such, I can't in good conscience recommend it to anyone. For those who don't heed my warning, you are in for a good read, one that's can't-put-it-down-ness is attributed to the author's adept writing, thorough research, and unsettling depiction of human depravity.
Aside from the awfulness of the actual murders, the latter part of the book that discusses the trial is fascinating. It was such a spectacle. Anyone who is interested in true crime and the “insanity defense“ would enjoy this book.
BrilliantI dislike calling any book dealing with such painful subject matter brilliant but the fact is,this book is written with high sensitivity,respect for the victims ,a dry prose,which conveys the truth without frills.
Very interesting bookThe author took a known story with a known outcome and filled in all the blanks, and he did it in a very telling fashion. I recommend this book to all true crime enthusiasts.
These were a couple of creeps. The book is graphic and tells what sadists they were. Some think they wouldn't have killed separately but one moved to the Pacific Northwest and killed again then tried to claim insanity. It didn't work, this is a good read if you like true crime.
Half way through I thought : "why am I even reading this?". I do not enjoy reading about the lives of these two pig turds and the details of their crimes. The disregard for human life and the way the girls were killed made me sick to my stomach. So I quit, The writing is good though.
Too much novelizing, too little reporting.
Sexualizes murder victims, including underage girls. Too gross to finish.
read this as part of the curriculum for a criminology class.
Although I had some issues with the first part of the book I thought the rest of the book was very well-written and researched. The first chapters of the book came across as a fiction writer writing true crime (exactly what it is). I didn't like the supposed conversations between the killers that had no basis in fact. Once I got through all that though things were well researched and kept me interested in the material. I would highly recommend this book to anyone interested in true crime or the Hillside Strangers case specifically.
It takes you through a background profile of each person up to the scare they put the city of Los Angeles into with their killing spree, and through the court process of Angelo Buono.
There are some very interesting perspectives brought into this book.
For example, the manipulative ways that pushed the duo to the point of killing.
Also, there were some interesting aspects of how Bianchi played some mind games on a lot of people before, during, and after he was caught.
Also, I definitely learned a lot about how the court, and specifically Judge George, handled the case.
