https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/351036.Why_Revival_Tarries
This book wasn't what I expected simply due to the fact of who recommended it to me.
I have been quite frustrated with organized religion based on the lack of passion that I see in the pews and the fact that so much seems fake.
I believe in the priesthood of all believers, and I'm not very good about being "obedient" to manmade authorities (especially those that like to point out their seminary training over and over) that I don't believe are following the New Testament Church and/or those that are adding a lot of unncessary tradition to the faith.
You gotta love Ravenhill's intensity but it is almost exhausting.
Reminds me of the drill Sargent gym teacher that was never satisfied with how hard you worked out, even though you were puking.
And if it's any consultation, I was a hardcore athlete growing up.
So thats the way I picture the comparison but in a spiritual sense.
But truthfully, generally speaking, I feel we are pretty wimpy in our prayer lives.
I would LOVE to see revival hit the states and Europe, but we all know the simple theological truth, let God be God and let His Holy Spirit do the work.
As a Christian leader I feel well reprimanded for my lack of prayer, earnestness, and commitment to God's call.
Yes, it's true that there is an appalling lack of prayer among Christian leaders (myself included).
It's a vivid way of making his point, but it also feels legalistic and based on a human attempt to quantify how much time a person needs to pray.
After reading it, I am motivated to pray more, and surrender more of my life and lifestyle to God. The church (especially including myself) really needs the prodding that Ravenhill is attempting to give.
Wow, Leonard Ravenill really hits hard with this book and it's so powerful. He brings a much needed word to the people of God about what it means to really pray and to live for Jesus with a fervor that today's church seems to be missing. Deeply challenging but also encouraging to know that God does show up when His people look to Him. I'd reccommend this to anyone who wants to be challenged to grow with Jesus in prayer.
Yet now in my second reading it leaves me scratching my head.This book has so many great one liners, and Ravenhill's style was fantastic, there is something almost poetic about each of the essays in this book.
I enjoyed his word play.The down side of this book is that it leaves God's hands utterly tied.
If you know what you believe and are looking to be stirred give this book a read, yet if you are looking to gain insight and deeper knowledge and love for your Lord, this book is not the place to start.
Years ago I read this book and was stirred, yet some 30 years later I must confess that I am even more deeply moved by this second reading.Ravenhill has always been viewed as a prophetic voice and the pages of this book confirm this description.
They are short, sermonic, cutting in their voice and provocative.
I stopped several times to repent and felt my spirit lifting to a higher level with each chapter.I began each morning abiding in the Scriptures and then reading Why Revival Tarries.
I appreciate how it underscored my need to be a man of the Word and the Spirit.
You know a book is good when it quickens you to prayer. I literally threw this book across the room and got on my face in conviction and a desire to meet the God Ravenhill talks about.
the most dramatic book on revival ever
This was one of the best books I have ever read, but it isn't for those Christians that do not want to be challenged in the complacency in their faith.
Magnificent.
My personal faithfulness as well as the desire to see the Lord's name, greatness and message spread far and wide were called into question and for good reason.
God's glory must be primary in our lives otherwise, what was all this about.One thing that stood out is the central place of prayer as we wait for and seek revival.
Come lord Jesus, come should be the theme of my song day and night.
It should be my greatest desire.
It's opening lines say, 'Make my life a prayer to you, I want to do what you want me to..' My desire must be the same.
So, mission accomplished--this book certainly challenged me as well to get in my prayer closet a la Matthew 6:6.
Ravenhill wonders, "Where have all the prophets gone?" Too many preachers are using their seminary degrees and material we've learned from dead theologians, but WHERE IS THE CONNECTION TO THE HOLY SPIRIT???
So again, there are a bunch of challenges and nuggets by which Christ-followers can dwell on to launch themselves onto and into God so He will launch His Spirit upon His creation.
Leonard Ravenhill says the answer is easy...we should ask ourselves, "Why we are not being all God created us to be when we claim we believe Galatians 2:20 to be true?" OUCH!
Very powerful, very profound. A man on fire for God speaking into our present need for revival today.
There was a time in my life when I felt personally responsible for bringing about a spiritual revival in the US.
I was convinced that if I just managed my time well enough, and had enough intensity in my prayer-life, and agonized enough for the lost and blah blah blah, that revival would visit the US.
Ironically, I look upon those years of my life as my "wilderness" years.
Mr. Ravenhill's passion exhausts me...it may be spiritual apathy on my part, or it might just be how God made me.
In either case, I am thankful for the grace of God that carries both of us.
It would be easy for me to dismiss this book - for sentences like: "Today we seem much more interested in having churches air-conditioned than prayer-conditioned." It is full of them.
(Though that particular one is my favorite!) I honestly can't remember why I chose to read it.
There was a surprising recommendation from somewhere.
So, why does revival tarry?
Because the Church is without the fire of the Spirit.
Because "fire begets fire" and her preachers do not preach (and minister) with fire.
Because they do not pray.
So, the prayer life of the pastor is the key to revival.
This man is convinced of what he writes, that's for sure. He is very serious about prayer and hates that so many people neglect it. The reason I gave this book three stars is because once you've read the first three chapters, you've read the whole book. Don't get me wrong! Those three chapters have great opportunity to change your prayer life. They did mine. However, as a whole, the book could have been condensed quite a lot.
I bought this book on a whim, simply because it has an endorsement by Ravi Zacharias stamped across the cover, "The book that shaped me probably more dramatically than any other book that I have read..." I found the book to be a very sharp, between the eyes kinda whap! The kind that's meant to wake you up in the midst of an emergency. Good stuff here.
Even if there are some things you disagree with in this book, time reading it is well spent. It is a book that puts fire in your bones, inspires you, and forces you to make a choice: renew your commitment to the Lord or stagnate where you are. Any book that does that is worth reading!
Clear and uplifthing
A masterpiece!!!! This book is so convicting. Ravenhill's love for revival can't be overstated, he was a giant of the faith that relayed ultimately on God.
This man knew God. And when I say know God, I don’t mean he knew about God but he experienced and was led by God. His words leap off the page and land on your heart. If you want to rekindle your fire for Jesus, get down on your knees and pray to a God who hears and responds to prayer. This Ravenhill book helps you in this process.
Amazing book
I finished reading this recently after it was suggested to by a few folks.
If you're familiar with the writings of EM Bounds you can see his influence in this work.
He has a Pithy Style of writing which keeps your attention, provides many good quotes and definitely drives home his points.
About two thirds into the book the author begins to present some serious issues which he has observed in the Fundamentalist movement.
I don't consider myself a Fundamentalist but I certainly can see his point.
Good read, but if I had to choose ...
EM Bounds would win.
Escrito originalmente em 1959 o livro continua mais atual do que nunca ao denunciar a situação decadente do cristianismo evangélico contemporâneo, sua frieza espiritual, a negligência à oração e aos valores celestiais.
Essa também será a conclusão do leitor que, com o coração sincero, se lançar na leitura desse livro.
O leitor é desafiado a viver como propriedade de Cristo, avançando contra as trevas, glorificando a Deus em suas vidas, sendo, ao mesmo tempo, alvo e agente do avivamento de Deus.D. L.
"For this midnight hour, incandescent men are needed.
The Church began with these men in the "upper room" agonizing - and today is ending with men in the supper room organizing.
The Church began in Revival; we are ending in ritual.
Charter members of the Church were men of heat and no degrees; today many hold degrees, but have no heat!
Ah, brethren, flame-hearted men are the crying need of the hour!Men need to be a pillar of fire - God-guided men to lead a misguided people; passionate Pauls to stir timid Timothys; men of flame to outshine and outburn men of name!
"Why Revival Tarries" emphasizes the utterly vital role of prayer in man's relationship with God. Prayer is an undervalued practice that grows, strengthens, and motivates the Believers, as well as moves and shakes the world.The author was very fond of using a certain format of sentence to make his points, although the statements made were true.
That repetitive sentence structure was the one thing that I found slightly tedious.I was personally convicted about my prayer life.
"Why Revival Tarries" is a convicting read that I would recommend to any Christian.
I loved Ravenhill's emphasis on preaching with unction.
He says that any pastor who doesn't spend 2 hours in prayer a day is not worth much.
As a teacher in a Bible college this is a needed message to all who are going into ministry.
This book is loaded with one-liners.He wrote that John the Baptist, who preached unflinchingly about judgment and truth, did well to survive 6 months without being put in jail.
He says though today (1959) he wouldn't last 6 weeks.
There are a lot of dated references to communism and other realities of the 1950's but it also contained some timeless messages that are always needed.
Leonard Ravenhill's passion and plea to return to prayer is on every page.
He is compassionately persistent in his desire to see us be the Church God has called us to be!
Very indepth and introspective, Ravenhill challenges the reader to be personally and corporately pure and relationally active.
His reflection on the disparity between the New Testament Church and the modern day church leave no stone unturned and bring caring yet convicting admonitions for the reader.
I not only grew spiritually reading this book; I was worked over in a way that spurned me to pray and walk in a way that pleases God!
An incredibly powerful, soul-stirring call to a deeper walk in the Spirit.
Undoubtedly one of the most impacting books I've ever read.
Anyone who dares to read this book should brace themselves to be challenged spiritually, and ministers who dare to read this should be prepared to be challenged to go beyond the realm of ego, pomp, and blustering mediocrity that permeates the religious world today.
I—and other readers of this great book—should probably commit to reading it every two or three years to constantly make ourselves aware that this world is fast asleep, and the Spirit is calling us earnestly to seek an authentic revival of apostolic power.
Leonard Ravenhill's writing is extraordinary. Many, many paragraphs contain indictments of current church life and practice, as well as challenges to the individual believer.Parts of the book drag a little (from around the middle of the book until the last quarter or so), but it pays to get beyond that. In some ways Ravenhill doesn't spell out the way ahead so much as to describe the final destination and leaving it up to believers in conjunction with the Spirit to find the way there. It's not a bad approach.A book to re-read soon!
