https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/404437.The_Long_Way
Bernard Moitessier was not just a participant in this incredible event, he was the lone participant who once he completed one single-handed loop around the three capes, decided to give Western Civilization the finger and keep on sailing, giving up all prizes and monies associated with officially winning the race (but securing a book deal, of course).
There was also sometimes a little thought in the back of my mind that with this trip, he essentially leaves his wife and kids, for good.
My brother asked me to read something at his wedding that was nautical and talked about life, this was his first thought for inspiration.Moitessier conveys his love for the sea and sailing.
Central to the book is what it means to be a creature living on this planet.
What is present is the sea, the boat, Moitessier, and his thoughts and memories.The author talks to us about the experience of being alone out on the water and how it causes him to reflect on his relationships with other people and with society.
In 1968 the London Sunday Times sponsored a circumnavigating the globe single handed sailing race.
At that time, no one had sailed around the world alone without stopping.
With the media attention there was even more of the romanticism always intwined in The Sea. The race, however, would come to expose all the real and terrible tragedy of "nature".
Moitessier, leading at the time, elected to turn his boat around and just keep going.
The second half of the twentieth century had no shortage of false mystics touting philosophies and lifestyles they knew nothing about.
Moitessier was real and knew what the fuck he was talking about.
I came to this book after reading A Voyage for Madmen.
I was just fascinated to learn more about someone who sails alone around the world, without touching land and when almost home decides "Nah. Let's just keep sailing".The book doesn't disappoint but here is a man so obsessed he must have been impossible to live with.
I have seen film of an interview with his wife and she says (I'm paraphrasing here) "That's Bernard.
It's just the way he is and you have to accept that".
Strikes me that she is just as remarkable a woman as he is a man.
This is an appropriate time to read or revisit Bernard Moitessier's book, The Long Way, describing his own experience in that race.Moitessier was already an experienced sailor and well known in the sailing world and had friends who were also participating in the race.
The right thing for him to do would be to head north and make for the Ascension Islands, then onto Europe and Plymouth so he can complete the race and be reunited with his family.
The first half was a pretty standard sea tale consisting of weather updates, sea conditions, etc—your basic log entry stuff—peppered in over a lot of talk about the freedom of the sea and the sort of vague spirituality that engenders.
At one point he goes on this long rant—at least I think he was talking about himself; I wasn't paying too much attention by then—about how he's going to donate all the proceeds from the book to the Pope, so the Pope can use it to safeguard the Earth from this "Monster." I pretty much gave up reading at that point, but since I was close to the end, I figured why not hate-read this to the end.If you're looking for warmed over hippie philosophy with a salty flavor, this is for you.
There was a nice balance between the technical aspects of sailing and the psychological adventure of the long voyage.However, he really lost me around the time he made his decision to keep going around Good Hope for a second time.
The last chapters read much more like a hippie (his word) manifesto than a sailing memoir.I read this because I was curious about the man and his voyage after reading A Voyage for Madmen.
I don't regret the read, but in terms of sailing memoirs, Josh Sloacum's Sailing Alone around the World is a lot more satisfying.
Oh Moitessier, you are such a romantic! A french hippie poet vagabond. This book is pure nectar, poetry, adventure, love of life in script. But I had to knock half a star off for going overboard with the tangents about the "Machine." Not that I don't agree in spirit, it just rubbed me the wrong way, felt badly written, trite. It actually hurts me to say that about this incredible book. Read it, do! I'll read it again just to hang out with this precious man.
The last few chapters made the entire book for me. The world could use a few more barefoot, hippie, vagabond French poets like Moitessier.
My favourite boating book of all time. The man is a legend.
Or the adventures of a totally free spirit, told in a simple and charming way. Moitessier was first in the race around the globe and chose not to land and reap the glory but rather keep on sailing.
This is a an amazing saga and the writer delivers the story in a captivating style that is not the least bit egotistical. This is one I'll never forget.
When you read this book, all you can do is smell the salt air, feel the motion of the ocean and experience complete and unadulterated enthusiasm for the act of putting yourself in this position.
As others have mentioned, the last portion of the book gets a little metaphysically heavy; I got the feeling that Moitessier didn't really know how to end his story and definitively state some final concrete conclusion he came to on his trip.
It provided some great insights into life at sea as well as details about the last part of the trip, which Moitessier sort of glosses over in the actual text of the book.Overall, definitely worth reading if my situation resembles yours at all.
Lost at sea.This is a log book of a mind too long left alone.
It's part madness, part sailing, and part rant.
I wish I had read it when I was younger so the angst and despair could've been closer to me.
It's a good bookthough, so I don't regret reading it.The appendix reads like a different book and was a pure pleasure.
The author takes us on a technical tour of the boat, the sails, the rigging, the weather in the 40s and so much more.
This part is a necessary read for any would-be sailor or those who dream of the life.
As an armchair sailor I love to read books about the sea. There is something about the challenge of the sea and sailing, the maintenance of the boat and the navigation that intrigues me.This account of Moitessier's is absolutely fascinating. Packed with good tips about how to survive months at sea, it occasionally wanders off into poetry and mysticism, but is well worth reading.
Very interesting read. I admire the strength of the author and the other solo sailors. They are a very small and close-knit group. On the other hand, these men want to be alone most of the time. They belong on the open sea, not on shore. The book has lots of technical weather, navigating, and sailing terms. Sometimes it reads more like a journal than a novel.
This was a fantastic read, even if tou have no interest in sailing. This is the story of a man divided, who finds self, and peace, and calm at sea, in a world that values none of those things. This book had a profound affect on me and ranks as one of by favorite all time reads.
I have no interest in sailing, but I could hardly put this book down. I loved living the sailor's life with Bernard Moitessier! I enjoyed learning some of the sailor's lingo and techniques for dealing with different situations. I loved experiencing his sights, smells, feelings. Highly recommend.
Great book!The author is an excellent writer. He writes with passion and provides lots of useful information of interest to anyone who has fantasies of sailing around the world in a sail boat.
C'est clair que c'est long... surtout pour le lecteur!
Bella lettura, immancabile nello scaffale degli appassionati di vela, mare e avventura
It's a classic sailing book, and for good reason. Moitessier's adventures come alive in these pages. Looking forward to reading more of his stuff in the future.
Part autobiography, part philosophical reflection, part sailing manual, part the story of an incredible voyage. A brilliant memoir.
But he didn't return to the starting point in England because, after sailing all of the way around the world--below Africa, Australia and South America--he just kept sailing east.
He ultimately sailed another two thirds of the way around the globe, passing Africa and Australia a second time.
He eventually stopped in Tahiti.Bernard's simple statement of why he kept sailing rather than completing the race was "because I am happy at sea and perhaps to save my soul".
"The Long Way" is Moitessier's telling of this voyage in 1968, on his sailboat "Joshua".
You can really feel how his moods rise and fall like the tides and the weather, as the book is essentially a journal composed on the seas in novel form.
Regardless of how and why, it rather abruptly changes pace and skips ahead to a section at the end comprising of his stay in Tahiti at the conclusion of the journey, which mostly consists of his laments about the ongoing commercialization and development happening there and more of his philosophy about how man means should seek harmony with nature instead of simply trying to control and exploit to his benefit.
Perhaps at the time it was written Moitessier was the darling of the sailing community and could be allowed his indulgences - this is a bit of a classic now.
I found the lack of interesting observations about the surroundings and the actual act of sailing made the book quite challenging to continue reading.
There is not much about sailing compared to Knox-Johnston's book about the same race - perhaps this is simply an indication of Moitessier's utter comfort in the environment that nothing to do with the act of sailing as relevant to him when he wrote.
Read-worthy due to its classic status, but don't expect a blow-by-blow account of edge of the seat sailing.
la storia è semplice e stupefacente: nel 1968 un gruppetto di navigatori (compagni di barca, come dice b.m.) partecipò al primo giro del mondo in vela, in solitario e senza scalo.
attraversò i tre grandi capi: buona speranza, leewin e horn, e invece di concludere e vincere la regata, proseguì per un altro mezzo giro del mondo, per andare a fermarsi a tahiti.nel diario analizza se stesso, la propria solitudine e resistenza, fino a trovare un equilibrio che gli permette di vedere il mondo senza le distorsioni del consumismo e della tecnologia, a riconsiderare il rapporto dell'uomo con la terra.
insieme, un manuale di navigazione e di tecnica della vela, prezioso nonostante siano passati quasi quarant'anni.
I don't know why I wanted to read a book about a sailor traversing the globe, or why I liked the pages and pages and pages of sailing detail and terminology I didn't understand, but I did.
The end is a little nutty with his political ranting (and I'm even in his way of thinking but it still came across as nutty), but everything before that with the sailing was very interesting.
Maybe it was because you were reading about someone who had this vast sailing expertise that you don't have and it's interesting hearing someone talk about how he feels safer away from the coast than close to it.

