https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58728.Anne_Frank_s_Tales_from_the_Secret_Annex
She was a real teenager, she was human with desires, anger, anxiety, curiosity. This was probably a more accurate portrait of what happened in the annex than what her father edited to present a pretty picture. She was so close to surviving the Holocaust. We are blessed that she left her diary behind.
These 'tales' are essays and stories written by Anne Frank in a separate notebook from her world-famous diary, but they're all written in that same spirited, irreverent and irrepressible voice. A keen observer of people and nature, a seemingly natural-born storyteller, she leaves the reader, who knows her fate, with a sense of loss over what might have been. Despite her young age, the tragic circumstances of her life and the times she lived in, she knew the way to inner happiness.
This book is not for everyone. Readers must remember that these stories were written by a teenage girl, and therefore they should judge them accordingly. The stories are interesting in their own right, but they do drag in places. It's rather obvious that if she had the chance, she would have probably edited and developed the stories to something that would be of better quality, but they are very good for the stage they are in. Definitely a must read for those interested in Anne Frank and/or the Holocaust.
Anne had learned to create a character that was highly autobiographical in some ways (Cady has a difficult relationship with her mother) but was different as well.
Cady isn't Jewish, but has a Jewish friend.
The climax is Cady going to visit her friend, the Germans are arresting her friend and family, they momentarily arrest her but let her go when she shows her ID to prove she isn't Jewish.
It seems unprecedented to me that Anne Frank, at such a young age, under threat of death for her Jewishness, found it possible to imagine what the Holocaust experience might be like for a sympathetic non-Jew.
The challenge: Captain America- read a book set in or written in WW2.Whenever I think about Anne Frank or even World War two in general, I can't help but feel so sad.
∇ This is a mix of diary entries, stories and essays.
The diary entries weren't included in the original book or at least not in my copy.
∇ I mentioned before how it makes me sad to think of Anne Frank.
Anne poured her soul into those stories and essays.
∇ I firmly believe that Anne was very progressive for her time.
Depois de ter lido o seu diário na minha adolescência..... Decidi que queria conhecer as suas histórias. E me emocionei muito.Imaginei o que ela pensaria se ainda tivesse viva...Gostoria que as pessoas lessem as suas histórias? Eu acho que ela seria uma talentosa escritora e inspiraria milhares de mulheres a contarem sua história, como já inspira.Nunca me desilude lê -la!
I'm not complaining about its quality, I just had to realise the book was made of tales which Anne wasn't able to revisit; I know it is pretty obvious, but this insight was important for my experience.After that, I could fully enjoy her tales.
Curiously, we can see the same girl in these stories, the one who loved life, nature and existence itself.Therefore, I highly recommend this book for anyone who wants to revisit Anne or just find out more about the girl who told one of the most unforgettable stories of the last century.
Her diary mentions her writing efforts and it is fun to read them here in their entirety.
The quality of the stories increases immensely as we go from one to the next, proving the old axiom that the only way to improve your writing is to practice.
But what is really amazing is the insights this young girl was able to bring to her stories.
In addition, we get a little more insight into her life in the attic and those people that surrounded her during that time.If you enjoyed reading Anne Frank's Diary, then you will also enjoy this volume of stories.
More than just Anne's diary survived the war; her short stories did, too, and I only discovered them last year. What a treasure for an Anne Frank lover like me! Some of the writings are from the diary itself, so the real treat was reading her fiction. She refers to some of it in the diary, so this made re-reading a richer experience. I agree with her; "Eva's Dream" is definitely her best, but Cody has some great parts, too. If you love Anne Frank, this is a must-read.
I got a 'suggestion-read' today of this book. I've read it at 'least' 3 times ---(two daughters and being Jewish does that to a 62 year old) ... but its always nice to receive recommendations from our friends on Goodreads. --- How can I 'not' give this book 5 stars?/!!!
I said I wasn't sure.Anne Frank has been described as an adult in a girl's body.
Thus, via short stories, she speaks about the nature of war and religion, about fearfulness, happiness and depression, and about nature and mankind's place in it.Granted, many people, if stuck in place similar to the «Secret Annex» for that amount of time, would probably have not much more to do than think and think.
But also, let's consider she was 14 years old.Now I'm sure I would travel in time to have a long talk with Anne.
This is very hard to rate and review because it was interesting but ultimately the stories aren't terribly good. They definitely tell you a lot of their author though, with their tales of lonely, lost, struggling characters, mostly girls. There's also a lot of reflection on nature and God. There are a few bits from Anne's time in the Annex and at the end some fragments of a novel.
I would hate to have my childhood stories, essays and daydreams published, but Anne's are really quite good even though these are not polished for publication the way her diary was.
There is a story about her befriending a movie star and going to visit her in California that would have been silly if not for knowing Anne's story, which made it poignant.
But if she had survived, would her diary have had the same impact it has?
This little collection made Anne even more real to me and again reminded me of our similarities and how lucky I am to have been born when and where I was.
It is very intelligent and full of messages.Yes, Anne mostly wrote about faries but I think she did it because she wanted to escape from the human world and try to give messages to children through faries.
And then she starts with her own tales and I think that if she had the opportunity to improve, she could have become a very good writer, writing books full of intellingent messages about the world.Anne wrote about the human's fault and world we live in.
While reading this book, I was a teenager just like Anne Frank.
I felt like she talked on behalf of all the teenage girls in the world.
Anne captured each moment in each letter of this book.
Anne said, "The best remedy for those who are afraid, lonely or unhappy is to go outside, somewhere where they can be quiet, alone with the heavens, nature, and God. Because only then does one feel that all is as it should be." Finally, even while writing this review back in my mind I was thinking about my poor writing style but Anne wrote it right again as she wrote.
"If I haven't any talent for writing books or newspaper articles, well, then I can always write for myself."
I would imagine that most folks in the Western world have heard of Anne Frank, the teenage girl who hid with her family in a house in World War II Holland.
I, too, had heard of her, back when I was a kid.
So when we were sorting through a stack of books being lent to us, I saw her famous picture and said, "Oooh, Anne Frank, I should read that." Of course, this is not her diary.
So I read the book, attempting to fulfill some karmic obligation or something.
The kid showed some potential.
So go ahead and give the Nazis the proverbial finger and give the book a read.
Essays and Short Stories, having exquisite content written by a 15-year old!!That's what makes this a 5-star! (Otherwise a four would suffice)Recommended to be read after reading Anne's Diary. That will make the stories more effective, because the reader would have an idea of Anne's beauty by then! :)Some amazing essays, and awesome stories. Also includes a few reminiscences that are a part of Anne's Diary.
Delicadeza e inocência em cada página. Como é bom conhecer um pouco mais a Anne e suas histórias ❤️
If Anne Frank had lived, she may have matured into a very good fiction writer as well. Wish all my students had written as well.
3.5
Enrichissant et sympathique à lire ! De belles pensées philosophiques :)
Aí, Anne escreveu o seu famoso "Diário" e alguns textos que incluem esta obra.
Nos seus textos Anne Frank revela muita sensibilidade, rebeldia, inteligência e um amor absoluto pela natureza e pela vida.
Este é o seu quarto de hora mais querido e ninguém precisa de pensar que a pequena florista trabalhadora está descontente.
Nunca está e nunca estará desde que a deixem ter, todos os dias, este pequeno descanso maravilhoso.No campo, no meio das flores, sob o céu cada vez mais escuro, Krista está satisfeita.
Recomendo muito este pequeno livro pleno de ternura e de bondade.
Everyone should read this book! It includes excerpts not included in the published version of her diary, as well as short stories and the beginning of a novel she never got to finish. Poignant, imaginative, relevant— pure genius writing from a child. It often made me wonder what else she would have written if she had the chance.
This book changed my life as a young girl. It will always be my favorite book regardless how difficult the subject is.
I have always been interested in Anne Frank she is a really special girl
An amazing book. Anne Frank truly is an excellent writer.
What struck me was, bearing in mind that everything written in this book was penned when Anne was 13 to 15 her observations and perceptions read like someone a lot older than herself.She was a shrewd observer, sometimes merciless but always truthful to herself.
Some of her musings about human behaviour are child like in their simplicity yet they make a lot of sense, and if only adults listened to children like Anne and others like her the world would probably be a better place.In Anne's fiction what resonates is the theme of loneliness, but there's always a ray of hope towards the end.
Reading the diary you get the sense that Anne is very much like that.
Una bella raccolta un po' vanificata dal fatto che molti dei brani proposti erano già presenti nel Diario (ma che siano riproposti in questa veste ha un senso preciso, devo ammettere).Dei brani ho apprezzato particolarmente quelli basati sull'esperienza personale di Anne, non solo nell'alloggio segreto, ma anche nella vita precedente alle leggi razziali.
Incredibile come una ragazzina si ponesse problemi così particolari sul proprio carattere e sulle sue relazioni con gli altri.Per quanto riguarda le storielle fantastiche, nonostante la tenerezza suscitata dalle metafore trasparentissime dei testi, non posso dare una valutazione positivissima.Un voto poco esaltante per i motivi di cui sopra.
Anne Frank was such an incredible writer, and she wrote all of this when she was only thirteen or fourteen years old!
The book is really sad, though, because you know what happened to the author...
The last chapter was scary and depressing, it was written from a Christian girl's perspective during the war who had a Jewish friend.I'm really glad this book was put together, because besides her famous diary Anne Frank also wrote a lot of short stories, little essays and random thoughts.
If things had turned out differently she could easily have become an accomplished writer when she grew older.
Anne franks tales from the secret annex in the begging it sounds like they're having a great time.
she tells us about how when her life was normal she talks about alot of things that happened in her past and its mainly all about stuff that happened in school.
She explains avout evenings and nights in the annex.
before all the hitler and stuff so far it sounds like her life wasnt that bad even though they were hiding in the annex.
Im really enjoying this book so far and i cant wait to get in the rest and towards the ending
