https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/280797.The_Little_Foxes
I had no idea what I was getting into with this. The only thing I knew about it was that Cynthia Nixon won the 2017 Tony for best actress in a play for the revival. After reading the play, I found out Cynthia and Laura Linney actually alternated roles between Regina and Birdy, which I think would be fascinating to see.The story here is excellently crafted and doesn't use too many words to say its piece. I do have to disagree with the blurb though; if anyone comes out of this play the "winner", it's Alexandra.
The century’s turning, the world is open.
Open for people like you and me.
There are hundreds of Hubbards sitting in rooms like this throughout the country.
All their names aren’t Hubbard, but they are all Hubbards and they will own this country someday.
Lillian Hellman wrote the words above in 1939, and it’s thoroughly disheartening how prescient they were.
The Hubbard siblings want to invest in a cotton mill.
Tallulah Bankhead played Regina on stage, Bette Davis in the film version.
Not everyone agrees, but I loved Bette in this movie:https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=FFM5tiB...In 1946, Hellman wrote a prequel to this story, Another Part of the Forest.
Claptrap. It became a stage hit solely because of Tallulah Bankhead -- her first juicy role after returning fr London. Her wicked Regina was beautiful and deadly. She didnt get the film role because Bankhead was fiercely anti-Commie (whereas Lilly was Commie), and Tallulah protested the Russian invasion of Finland, which was aok w Hellman (who wouldnt know morality if it slapped her ass with a strap) ....Hellman said to pal Goldwyn, no no Tallulah in film. Bette did her best, but the film is a great stinker. Without Tallu, so is the play.
The play focuses on Regina Hubbard Giddens, in her desire for a share of the family inheritance.
The entire play is set in the Giddens family living room, which seems like it would add continuity to the play as a whole, but after a while it just got monotonous because it felt like I was just reading a REALLY long scene.
Like I said before, I didn’t hate this play.
Based on the way that I felt while reading it, it seems like a play that may have you shifting in your seat and nodding off when watching it live.
My initial college advisor (before I dropped English for the oh-so-much-more practical politics) passed away this spring.
I hadn’t spoken with her in years, but whenever I sit down and write anything, she’s there, hidden in the lines.
When I saw The Little Foxes sitting on a bookshelf a few weeks after I heard of her passing, I was drawn to it.
Because I know she would have had dazzling insight, that she’d deepen my appreciation for the play in just a sentence or two.The story of a Southern family, The Little Foxes features plenty of interesting women in these pages.
I read this I think in the 1970s/early 1980s. I was trying to read only classics at the time.
Sharp, edgy dialogue (especially for the day) drives this on-your-seat family drama.
I really liked it! More and more and more as I read. The ending was surprising! Will probably reread it this week. Tom really made a good selection of texts for this course!
I had to read this for my drama class in school. In fact, I had to memorize a monologue from this work. My favorite line from this play is "Are you scared Mama?" It was a very good look in to a very messed up family.
3 1/2 stars
In one happy moment, in the throes of a mildly drunken reverie, with her guard down because she is comfortable with her favorite members of the extended family (her brother-in-law Horace, her niece Alexandra and the wise old “servant” Addie), she rambles on about her mother: “[My brother] said Mama didn’t like [the Hubbards] because they kept a store, and he said that was old-fashioned of her.
Alexandra's little speech – just one among many gems – from the end of Act III: "All in one day: Addie said there were people who at the earth and other people who stood around and watched them do it.
There is minor commentary on the lives of the two black servant characters (and the "n" word flies around a shocking number of times - did they do that in the modern production?) but Hellman's focus is really the issue of the role of white wives in the early 20th century.
The same is true of the male characters who maintain enough personality differences to not only keep them clearly separate as you read along but to also force a sense of allegiance or hatred.
*in the Manhattan Theatre Club's production, the two wives' roles are swapped even during the same show by the actresses playing them.
One of those plays that existed in competition with the cinema or perhaps written for the two different markets.Interestingly, this play feels like an inverse to the play I reviewed earlier in the year The Piano Lesson, in which a black family in the North is looking to invest backwards in the land that had once enslaved them.
These two plays feels connected in a kind of inverse way.
Regina is evil- dugh. The brothers are assholes. Glad alexandra is getting out with Addie. Poor Horrace was a good man. What does Addie mean when she says that there are people who eat the earth and eat all the people on it? I thought she meant that 'this is a dog eat dog kind of world' but i think that's wrong. Maybe Omission and Commission? They got rich from screwing a situation and everyone involved? "sometimes i think it aint right to stand and watch them do it... so that someone should stand up? -will be back.
Excellent pot-boiler about family greed, back-stabbing, - saw the Broadway production with Laura Linney as Regina (amazing!) and Cynthia Nixon as Birdie (also heart-wrenching performance - no surprise she won Tony award for this). Richard Thomas was also amazing as Horace as was Michael McKean as Ben. Memorable show. Great set design too. Entire cast was outstanding and very humble at stage door signing programs and having selfies taken. I am curious now to read the prequel Another Part of the Forest which takes place 20 years earlier.
This play wasn't what I was looking for when I began reading, and holy crap did it draw me in. I devoured it! Ms. Hellman establishes from basically each character's literal first sentence who they are and what they're like—you just don't believe the Hubbards could such assholes until late into Act II, when they've gotten up a little speed.DEPRESSING HOW RELEVANT THIS PLAY FEELS TO TODAY
Holy crap what a rotten bunch of people! Thank God Alexandra and Addie exist in this piece otherwise there wouldn't be any redeeming think in it. The Hubbard/Giddens family put the fun in dysfunctional!
I can't believe I've never read this classic. Scenery-chewing melodrama: I loved every moment.
I love Lillian Hellman. It's a good play about greed. Felt it a little dense which seemed unnecessary a few times.
Love this play! The female characters are just fabulous.
I can picture Bette Davis.
I read this because it was mentioned during the Tony Awards. I didn't really like it too much. It was a little slice of Southern life. it was interesting, but I didn't really care for it.
Then there are people who stand around and watch them eat it." Horace has refused to sit around and watch, and his example inspires our hero, his daughter Alexandra, to do the same.
She ends the play by rejecting her mother Regina and declaring herself an activist, insisting that while the Hubbards are fighting to grab all the money and power for themselves she'll, "be fighting just as hard...some place where people don't just stand around and watch." It should be somehow rousing and inspirational, but it feels hollow.
Another literature class read that was ok. I can see why it would have possibly been chosen for the curriculum, but it's not great by any means. I'm looking forward to reading something really wonderful.
They are the embodiment of all the terrible traits you would imagine linked to the rising middle class of this time that felt it their right to build themselves up in society no matter who they walked over; selfish, angry, rude, and disrespectful describes the majority of this family in a nutshell.To be fair, this was heightened by the fact that I was reading a production version of the text; meaning that it was filled with very lengthy stage directions and not in the enjoyable novel-esque descriptions of the likes of Bernard Shaw.The only escape from all of this came in the form of five characters;  Addie and Cal- The servants/ slaves of Regina Giddens (an original Hubbard) who show more humanity than their, supposedly, civilized masters throughout the play.
Regina is their sister, wife to Horace, mother to Alexandra, with a dangerous hunger for profit.
By coincidence Horace has a great number of bonds in a safety deposit box and it seems up to the siblings to pressure him to donate to their future financial happiness.
I'm not a great reader of plays so this was a good introduction to post-modern theatre.
Horace, Birdie, Oscar's wife and Alexandra are all that stand up to the Hubbards.
It's a good play and was even turned into a movie with Bette Davis as Regina.
Most of these characters were horrible people and I love to hate them.

Hellman explores the dionysian/appolonian struggle through wealthy southerners during the early 1900's. Rich people complain about their problems while thier black servants shuffle along like faithfukl, babbling idiots. I understand Hellman's contribution to American theater but this play is pretty out of date and should only be viewed in the context of what American life was like back then.Personally, I found the content to be pretty mediocre. Similar themes can also be found in Mourning Becomes Electra triology by Eugene O'Neill...only done better.
Currently acting in a production of this at my school, I play Ben Hubbard. I like the play and I like Lillian Hellman.
