https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14877984-finn-s-hotel
James Joyce is not an author of that collection.
Also editor titled it  Finn’s Hotel , maybe after the place where Nora Barnacle, Joyce’s wife worked as a chambermaid or maybe because hotel is a place people come and go and such transience and fragmentariness is visible in these sketchy collection.Having read earlier only  Dubliners  and  Portrait of the artist as a young man , works regarded as more accessible, I’m not going to play the smart guy and pretend that I fully comprehended all I was reading about in  Finn's Hotel .
Finn's Hotel  heralded new Joyce.
Indudablemente no estoy preparado aún para leer a Joyce. No entendí ni una sola palabra de lo que leí en este libro...
Each 'little epic' is a narrative tableau in which some of Joyce’s heros and heroines make their debut: many characers among this eclectic cast later reappear, in various guises, in Finnegans Wake but in Finn’s Hotel they are portrayed in their unvarnished, original incarnation.
He then laid them aside, leaving Finn’s Hotel forever unfinished, and they remained all but forgotten for sixteen years; all, that is, save one, the ‘Pop’ piece (‘Here Comes Everybody’) that pre-occupied him.
Thus, in one room of Finn’s Hotel sat the egg from which Finnegans Wake hatched.And if, like Joyce, you like finepress books, this is an excellent example.
O texto de Danis Rose conta sobre a descoberta tardia do manuscrito; e o de Seamus Deane apresenta um panorama da relação entre mito e história da Irlanda na criação de Finnegans Wake.Recomendo a leitura de Finn's Hotel àqueles que gostariam de uma aproximação à linguagem do Finnegans Wake.
A seguir um recorte do episódio Bordões da memória: "as quatro ondas da Irlanda...tinham visto o que lhes bastasse...e era tal sua memória ...
I think this volume can be better understood in the context of Ireland's history and mythology, and having in mind James Joyce's other works as well. I am not very familiar with either of these subjects, but I could still appreciate the witty writing style, the language and the word plays in these "epiclets".
You can clearly see that the stories of this book were the bridge between an "almost understandable writing" (as seen in "Ulysses") and the extremely complicated narrative of "Finnegan's Wake".
The main piece for me in this book, is the...lets call it "origin story" of HCE and ALP.
These details are hidden among the cobwebs or the narrative, leaving the reader to identify these cryptic pieces and put them all together just to build a full image of the main character (at the same time trying to figure out what is going on in the dream).
-- I have long struggled with the Wake, never progressing further than perhaps a third, and was intrigued by the prospect of a "Rosetta stone" as this book is called in the preface.
-- And, actually I think it is something like that.
Not the most helpful one, but a start.
Greater accessabilty, a simplified map to a vast cosmos.
The introductions are interesting and helpful, though perhaps kind of, in contemporary terms, "spoiler"-y.
OTOH, even a "simplified map" may profit from an "instruction manual", so, they are appropriate.
Não estou em condições de dar uma nota pra esse livro.
