https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/987217.Dinosaur_Planet
1979 grade B-2018 grade BSeries book DP1This is a character development and world building novel with characters from various backgrounds and ages exploring a planet with plants and animals that don't really belong together. The reading is a little dry but worth it. Will I read it again? Maybe, if I live long enough. Note that the story does have a conclusion, but it is open ended. Maybe the sequel will tell us if they survive long term. Note, the sequel does conclude the story.
There's a word for re-reading a book from your youth that you just LOVED and being disappointed in it as an adult. This book still has elements that sparked my imagination and interest back then, but a lot of it sadly didn't hold up. I'm still four-starring it, for all it meant to me back then, but I don't think I'd recommend it to a modern reader sadly.
Thought I wasn't going to really like this book/series, but it really got better the last few chapters.
A scientific team of explorers go to a new planet to explore and look for ore deposits that make life for this future race of beings possible.
A biologist on the team, Varian, is in awe of the many varied species of life being discovered on this stinky planet (they had to use fancy nose plugs to block the stench for quite some time), but the most intelligent life on the planet she had discovered was were golden furred flying creatures she labeled "giffs".All is going well for the diverse crew on Ireta, or so it seems.
Anne begins1978's Dinosaur Planet with a sawed-off shotgun full of technobabble, firing indiscriminately in all directions.
The technobabble is so thick that there isn't even any room for a plot, not even the vaporously thin plot of this book.Somewhere around page 50, the technobabble shots simmer down to a more reasonable pace and some degree of plot and characterization moves in, much like oxygen.
So I suppose that the horrific writing of the first fifty pages lets the perfectly lame writing of the remaining book seem good by comparison.
The leadership survives, holes up in their remaining shuttle, going into techno-sleep.That's it.And you'd think with a title like Dinosaur Planet that the book would be a sure-fire dino-love-fest.
McCaffrey begins to build the story (admittedly with some jargon thrown in) as a bit of a mystery - odd discoveries and missing equipment and the like.
finally - with about 30 pages left in the book, the action starts.
First book of a new "series" right?
Well, there is one more book (later more added), but in my opinion every book in a series should be able to stand on its own as a story.
The characters continue on and to really understand them you should read the ho series, but the STORY should stand.
I've read a few other Anne McCaffrey books before and I've never really been able to get into her stories.
I love dinosaurs so I thought it would be a good read.
There are very minimal dinosaurs and they aren't really that important to the story.
The actual story was ok but you can deffinitly tell that this whole book is just a set up to it's sequel "Dinosaur Planet Survivors".
This is deffinitly not one of those books you can just not read the sequels to.
And I'm probably going to end up readin the sequel just because finishing that book would be more like finishing the first.
The book got off to a slow start.
This group of people had been sent to this planet to search for metals and other raw materials.
For some reason they didn't figure out until midway through the book that they were dinosaurs.
The story started to get interesting when the part of the group (the people from a high gravity planet) mutined and attempted to kill the leaders Kai and Varian and rest of the group (people from ships or Earth-like gravity planets).
The story ended with Kai's group sending a distress call the the Theks and going into suspended animation.
A pretty light, fast read. Not McCaffrey's best book. The tension throughout relies on the characters figuring out what's obvious to the readers (i.e. the dinosaurs really are dinosaurs, and the heavy worlders are planning to mutiny). Also, the notion that the heavy worlders are savages in large part because they're not vegetarians seems pretty heavy-handed. Still, it's a fun story, and the ending has a good bit of action. Nothing is resolved, mind you, so if you read it, be ready to jump into the follow-up, Dinosaur Planet Survivors.
So very disappointing. It cannot hold a candle to Anne's Pern books. The plot is thin, even for a book of less than 200 pages, and it seems that it came as an afterthought somewhere around page 50. The title so misleading, given that the hapless xenobiologist only realised that she was dealing with dinosaurs at page 150ish, and then the entire mission falls apart as the heavyworlders, unprovoked and poorly explained, decides to kill all others by dino stampede. I'm not impressed, and I will not be reading the second installment.
A very slow start littered with either made up terminology or scientific phrases I was ignorant of. Once the story kicked in it was an enjoyable little read and I raced through it. Not sure if I'll read the second book though.
Very slow to start. During that time I decided I wasn't going to read the sequel. And then it finally got interesting at the end. And I almost want to read the sequel.
Toni Morrison understood this when she began her novel Paradise with “They shoot the white girl first, but the rest they can take their time…” Anne McCaffrey not only doesn’t shoot the sheriff on the first page, she waits until the final one-fifth of the novel—the last 35 pages or so—before the action starts.
When I picked up Dinosaur Planet (not as an e-book, but in the original Del Rey paperback edition) and started reading it, I never expected Anne McCaffrey to commit the same storyteller’s sin of only provided the first part of the story, expecting the reader to go out and purchase the sequel just to see how things turned out.
Too much technobabble evident in the first chapters.
Dinosaur Planet gives the reader a too-obvious clue about the inhabitants of the planet.
The sexes of Kai and Varian are difficult to guess at first; tho everyone is vegetarian, the crew giving the not-too-bright heavy-worlders only the heavy lifting to do was a huge set-up.
I was angry that "our" people couldn't think of SOMETHING to do, or move SOMEWHERE else on the planet away from the heavy worlders, or get the equipment working.
VERY unsatisfactory; but I guess it was a setup for the next book.
I really liked how this novel was highly detailed. I learned tons of new words. For example, suppuration, abrogation, magnanimity, undulate, etc. The diction is interesting and the hardcore action, like someone else mentioned in a review, doesn't really start until the second half of the book. Regardless of that, all of the seemingly less action-packed moments from the first half of the novel have significance later. Also, the ending leaves us with a cliffhanger and I now want to read the rest of the series. Great book.
Solid science fiction. I would not recommend reading the blurb on the back as it has too many spoilers, but then, the title itself is a bit of a spoiler that doesn't get confirmed by the characters until 3/4 of the way through the book. Another small warning, this ends in a bit of a cliffhanger, so you might want to have the Survivors handy when you finish 😅
Largely inoffensive and enjoyable. Not Anne McCaffrey's very best work but it is still miles ahead of her more flawed writing. Unfortunately this does not stand alone to the extent it's functionally half a book.
Enjoyed except the Hadrosaurs.
Old Anne McCaffrey book. I haven't reread it since it was first published. I forgot that there were going to be others in the series. I may have to look for them.
Started and finished in one afternoon - competent little novella. 2.5 stars for the book, further 0.5 star for indulging my thing for dinosaurs.
So I just had to check this out.A mixed research team of various galactic races comes across a planet with an interesting flora and fauna.
Then more tracking, cataloguing and talking.
Talk about how disturbing this is.
Track the wild life and discover something remotely interesting and worth talking about.
Incredibly talkative (in case you haven't guessed) with the only tension being created by the disgust expressed over some of the team members eating meat.If that is typical of Ms McCaffrey's output I guess she should have definitely more focused on quality over prolificness.
Dinosaur Planet by Anne McCaffrey is the first book set in the Ireta Universe.
The book is a science fiction story set far in the future when humanity has joined with many other species to form a galactic society.
They only are on the world to discover whether it has the proper elements to make it worth raping by their society yet they consider psychical violence as the worst thing they can do.
While I did not find this the most enjoyable McCaffrey story that I have ever read after consideration it has many ideas which we have to consider in our society today about freedom and responsibility.
Coming back to Anne McCaffrey's other works as an adult (especially an older one like "Dinosaur Planet") both her strengths and weaknesses as a writer seem to stand out more clearly.The storyline of Kai and Varian's team as they explore the mysteries of the dinosaur planet is neither action-packed nor particularly suspenseful, but it's entertaining and quirky enough to overcome long passages of dialogue and discussions on biology, geology, and zoology.
Actually, this scientific interaction among the team's members helps make their mission feel more real and certainly helped build the feeling of discovering a new world alongside the book's characters.The book's weakness is in the flatness of the characters.
That being as it is I was mostly annoyed by the content of this book as it's filled with racism against the heavy grav-ers (and meat eaters) as well as no real character development and a contrived romance while it should have focused on this dang mystery of a planet full of freaking dinosaurs, some of which may be pretty intelligent.I read the sequel simply because it fell into my hands but I actually thought it would have been nice if it had ended where it was, I kind of liked the idea of never knowing what would happen next.
IF ONLY I HAD FOLLOWED THAT FEELING!I would not recommend this book to anyone unless they are looking for something to rewrite as a project!
Hasta el final del libro no me dí cuenta de que uno de los personajes en lugar de ser mujer, era un hombre mayor y el título del libro estropea la historia.
Lo que debía ser un descubrimiento (que el planeta esta lleno de dinosaurios) lo puedes imaginar tan sólo en el título.No digo que la historia sea mala, en general es buena y ya comencé a lee los primero párrafos del siguiente libro, tan sólo para saber qué sucedió después del final (que queda en suspenso).
Not my favourite work by the lovely Anne McCaffrey, but still worth the read if you like her stories.
Ireta is an interesting world and the mystery surrounding it is intriguing; of course, nothing is answered in this novel.
The beginning drags but Anne does a good job of making sure you keep turning the pages with her descriptions of the various flora, fauna and biology of Ireta.
The ending is action packed, but presents a frustrating cliffhanger to be sure.
My biggest issue was that this book reads as a simple introduction to the series and nothing more.
Overall not a bad book.
I probably will continue this series.
Kai and Varian lead an expedition to Ireta to study the native fauna and flora and harvest natural resources.
The excursion is plagued with oddities from the start.
The planet is unexpectedly lacking significant quantities of rich ore, and the combination of the wildlife (like, oh, the dinosaurs) is unlikely to have co-evolved.
Furthermore, their reports to the pickup ship have unexpectedly been ignored.The book was very, very slow and boring until the last quarter.
Surprisingly, I'm curious enough about the ending to consider picking up the sequel.
There are five about this world, but I believe there is only one direct sequel.
Standard sf with a lot of people talking science to each other. Very little personality, description, or characterization so the characters are just names--even gender remains a mystery for some. The conflict takes forever to appear but the story does pick up in the final chapters and then leaves you hanging, eager for the sequel. Interested readers should track down the omnibus edition which contains this and the sequel (DINOSAUR PLANET SURVIVORS) and was published variously as DINOSAUR PLANET OMNIBUS, THE MYSTERY OF IRETA, and THE IRETA ADVENTURE. Her Planet Pirates series takes place on the same world.
WARNING: This book ends with a cliff-hanger...So, this book is a futuristic exploration novel.
Kai and Varian are co-leaders on an expedition looking for fuel sources on other planets.
Only this planet, Ireta, is odd.
And their messages aren't being picked up by EV (the bosses, so to speak).
And the heavy-worlders are acting strange.
And dinosaurs are running around.
And then it all ends with a cliff-hanger.
It was a lovely book, to be honest.
In fact, it only really picked up near the end.
But a good read, nonetheless, and I would suggest it to those looking for sci-fi dinosaur combos.
I bought this because I thought that it would be either half decent, or hilariously bad. It was neither. It read as though McCaffrey had a deadline, forgot about it, remembered the night before the book was due, started writing, got frustrated, opened a bottle of scotch, kept writing until morning getting drunker and drunker as she progressed, saw the sun rise, said F-this, and just sent it to the publisher half finished with the lamest ending ever. Plus- Tardma? Tardma as the name of a kinda burly, kinda dumb character? What IS this, second grade? Poor Tardma.
