https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1067401.Strong_s_Exhaustive_Concordance_to_the_Bible
Invaluable tool for studying the Bible. I even have an original edition from the very first printing in 1890. Don't settle for the translations of others. Check it out yourself with a Strong's Concordance.
If one can ever say that one reads such a book. It can be a helpful study tool.
I don't think there is another concordance that is as detailed and all encompassing as Strong's. Every word of the KJV Bible is listed here with Greek and Hebrew translations and definitions. This is a must have resource even in the age of online dictionaries and information.
Deeply edifying
Excellent reference for Bible Study.
Great Treasure Trove of Knowledge and Literary Insight!
Just not what I expected and is far too huge for me to use regularly. The copy I received was a good 2.5-3 inches thick and prob 10 inches high. Heavy and bulky and too much of the contents could be looked up online without having to hull it around. Would have prefer a smaller, easy to carry version for quick references and deeper study.
No longer the standard, and mine is an old edition. Excellent binding. If you are trying to read the Bible in the original languages you have to have a keyed interlinear and concordance. This one was free to me. I use it every day
Very helpful concordance that supplies a ton of information at your finger tip. Includes Hebrew and Greek word definations. Where every word in the Bible is used. Bible comparisions. The best concordance available.
Call Number: 220.2Reference.
A classic reference resource. I got this for Christmas from my folks.
Recommended for all serious studies of the Bible. Contains a wealth of information for all interested in furthering their understanding of God's word.
Amazing Work
This is an excellent resource to have on hand! It is an easy way to look up the scriptures you need about the things that matter to you!
jesus love us
Strong's has always been my go-to Concordance - I love how thorough it is. I recently updated my old Strong's Concordance by purchasing this new one, in large print, and it's absolutely fantastic!
An essential Bible study tool.
Heavy old book from 1951. Has the Greek and Hebrew word meanings. Can be helpful to see where modern days words came from and what the bible names mean.
a must have for any student of the Bible
This is a must have book for any pastor or Bible scholar who wants to have quick and easy access to texts, cross references and allusions throughout the Bible.
Even in the age of Biblegateway and searchable Bible CDs, I've found this volume has come in handy on more than one occasion during more than one debate.
An absolute MUST if you like to deep dive into specific words in specific verses in the Bible.
I have not read this cover to cover but I have been using it as a resource for 30+ years
I haven't READ this entire book, but I have looked up a lot of items in this book.
This concordance contains every word that is printed in the KJV in alphabetical order. If I remember a word or phrase from the Bible but can't recall the reference, this is the tool I use.
In dispensible bible research.
A Pastor friend of mine gave me this. Said it was for young preachers starting out.
Get BDAG.end of line.
