https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80536.Little_Earthquakes
I have to be honest, I really didn't think that I would like this book even though I liked the author all ready.
I just like to read about things that aren't my life.
I'm a mom and I know what it's like to do raise a child by yourself or feel like you do anways and some of the other struggles that the woman face.
Even though this is fiction its still nice to read about things that you have thought about and you feel like you're not alone.
I would recommend this book to any woman.
I don't usually read chick-lit, not because I don't like it, but mostly because my usual literary tastes tend to other genres more often than not.
I like to consider myself versatile in my readings.
I looked at the story's premise, sounded like something I'd like to read and went ahead.
I really liked this book: the characters felt real, with their problems, their ways of getting around those problems, of dealing with them.
Characters who suffered, laughed, cried, fought, smiled, lived.
Characters that, despite everything, looked like real people.
"Bye and bye, bye and bye,the moon is half a lemon pie.The mice who stole the other half have scattered star-crums in the sky.Bye and bye,bye and bye,my darling baby, don't you cry.The moon is still above the hill.The soft clouds gather in the sky"....:0)
I've liked Weiner's other two novels, if only because she chooses to have the main character not be stunningly beautiful, tiny proportions etc. They seem real.I still think my favorite of Weiner's books is  Good In Bed , but there was a lot that I liked about this book, too. Once again, the author has creater characters that oculd indeed be real. I'm so sick of chick lit books where the characters are perfect looking and fall for hunks of masculinity. Of sexual banter and tension that is a littl
I've liked Weiner's other two novels, if only because she chooses to have the main character not be stunningly beautiful, tiny proportions etc.
They seem real.I still think my favorite of Weiner's books is 
I'm so sick of chick lit books where the characters are perfect looking and fall for hunks of masculinity.
Powerful to me during this period of my life. This author's way of intertwining lives and making you feel like you have a front row seat is just amazing. It was hard to be brought back to those early days with a baby and how it did shake up every essence of your life and marriage, but wonderful to have perspective. I enjoyed all of it and her amazing writing. I also liked how the ending felt real. Read again in summer of 2018 and still loved it.
This book fulfilled that purpose, fortunately, or I may not have finished it.This story is about three "very different women" who meet by chance at a prenatal yoga class and bond over the hardships of new motherhood.
The first problem with the book: These women are not all that different.
Becky, the fat chef (there always has to be a fat woman in a Jennifer Weiner book), is the most normal, but as co-owner of a successful restaurant and wife of a surgeon, she is so destitute she has to buy a used stroller and is too stupid to know if it meets child safety regulations.
At work, I hear the stories of morning sickness and misery from two pregnant co-workers.
I picked up this book, not knowing what it was about.
The time span of this book is a bit longer than I expected.
The premise was interesting, but by the end, I was sick of all of the characters.
I felt like it needed to end earlier.
I recall my time spent in Center City, and I could easily imagine the scenes at Temple and Penn.
and by the end, I felt just as run-down as the mothers of the newborns.
I didn't give it 5 stars because the main character is typical of her other books...strong minded, insecure inside, wants to befriend everyone, etc etc.I did like the detail she went into in the supporting cast though.
And I like that.
I like that her main characters are sort of quick to judge others (other women mostly) but end up realizing that even though she had these 'guesses' at what they may be like (judging the book by the cover I guess), she finds that they aren't as 'got-it-together' or snobbish as she originally thought.
So I will keep reading her books.
(Barnes & Noble, are you spying on me??) I was also surprised to discover that the author also wrote "In Her Shoes," which I frankly didn't even realize had been a book before it was a trashy movie starring the constantly-annoying Cameron Diaz.
Anyway, that kind of set the tone for the book.In the end, it was a fairly enjoyable read, about as enjoyable as "In Her Shoes" was as a movie - it's definitely mind-candy, fluff that can be easily-digested in a day or two.
There's definitely some tragedy and drama sprinkled in there though - I thought that one of the most interesting aspects of the book was the title.
This is a great book for new moms who have a little distance from the challenge of those first few tough weeks/months. Even if it's fiction, it helps to see that it's hard for everyone at the beginning and that we all have reasons to count ourselves lucky. It's also a heartwarming story of how friendship can help us all weather lives storms.
I haven't read a full book since giving birth. I had this lying around and it was actually the perfect book to read right now as I go through some of the same struggles with motherhood and relationships.
In addition to these three women who bond over their newborn children, we also meet Lia, an ex-Hollywood starlet haunted by a tragic accident and desperate to start anew in her hometown of Philadelphia.Each chapter in Little Earthquakes is dedicated to the intimate, behind-the-scenes details of each woman's life over the course of one year and the struggles they face between being new mothers and dealing with their unique situations.
Movies and novels will not bring me to tears unless it's quality work, and I can assure you that this novel is genuinely touching!My favorite elements of the book include Becky's mother-in-law situation - as Mimi has no respect for Becky's mothering techniques and special requests.
Little Earthquakes started with Lia who has come home leaving her husband and the glamorous life in Hollywood behind.
Then there is Kelly, Becky and Ayinde who meet in a prenatal yoga class and then Ayinde's water breaks from where Kelly and Becky take her to the hospital.Becky is very happily married but then there is the issue of her mother-in-law Mimi who has the annoying habit of wanting to talk to Becky all the time.
It is a story about coming to terms with one's body and life changes that pregnancy and babies bring about.
I really liked Lia and Becky's story a lot and I enjoyed reading Little Earthquakes a lot.
I read this for an online book group...who always seem to pick chick-lit.
The characters were generic (business woman, TV presenter, mad mother-in-law, hunky husbands), as was the storyline (mad mother-in-law just needs to be loved, a guy who cheats didn't really mean to, happy endings all round), and there was nothing wonderful about the writing.
The only other real chick-lit I've read in a good few years was 'Angels' by Marianne Keyes, and with her I felt her writing style could have gone further than candy floss fiction, but with Jennifer Weiner I think she's perfectly suited.
But her writing wasn't particularly insightful, poetic, emotionally touching or witty...it just told a story.
If the GoodReads description on this page appeals to you, you'll probably like this book.
If it makes you cringe a bit, then it's probably not for you.I loved Weiner's Good in Bed, I was fine with In Her Shoes but I'm pretty "meh" about this book.
I felt like Weiner was like, "I just had a baby!
I want to write about babies!" So she did.Perhaps I'm tired of the four-women story method, but I felt like the spark and snap that punctuated her other books was missing from this one.
Perhaps having to write four strong characters meant that a little bit was lacking from each.
this is the closest i'll probably get to a trashy novel that isn't pornographic.
it isn't trashy.
it follows four new mothers and the book is divided by each woman's story instead of chapters.
"becky," "lia," "ayinde," "kelly." it's cheesy.
i think this falls under the category of 'beach reading.' respect to new mothers.
oh and in the hollywood version, ayinde would be played by eva longwhoria (even though she's not black, maybe gabriel union, but in my imagination this has longwhoria written all over it with a basketball husband).
becky would be played by the annoying chef from gilmore girls.
Here's the thing: I like Jennifer Weiner.
In terms of developing a narrative, she's probably one of the most refreshing chick-lit writers out there, because she doesn't fall back on the trite searching-for-Mr.-Right-and-meeting-him-accidentally formula that sadly characterizes most of the genre.
I avoided this book for a long time because it's about a subject (new motherhood) that I can't currently relate to, and hope not to be able to relate to for several more years.
I listened to abridged version of this book, read by Jennifer Weiner.
This is one of those books I wish I could give a 3.5 stars.
It really is better than "I liked it" but I'm also not sure that it was 4 star worthy.
I ended up rounding down because I think in six months, I won't remember or still be raving about this book.I thought the author did a really great job narrating this book.
I think she really made the book extra good.
The ending was maybe a little cheesy, everything is perfect, but I still thought it was good.

I read this for a group read, and I was actually under the impression that this was going to be a funny book.
It was the story of a group of women and their journey through pregnancy, marriage and the ups and the downs.
Each character had something in their life that wasn't quite perfect, and each story told how they either triumphed or were defeated by their problem.I liked it..
but I probably wouldn't read it again.
I just think there's enough bad things that happen in reality that I don't want to read about it in a fictional book.
About 3.5 stars. Really enjoyed this book. I really liked the characters and found them to be real, easy to empathize with. I am not a big fan of chick lit, but I do read it as its usually a light read for me. But I really enjoyed this one, I found it relatable and real, which many are not.
Great summertime read.
I even stayed up late one night to finish it!
Motherhood can be lonely, but it can also forge amazing friendships.
As someone who has made some of my best friends through the shared adventures of motherhood, I was drawn to the way the women in the book become friends.
Each one has a back story that impacts her experience as a new mom.
It’s not deep literature, but it did bring me back to the early days of being a mom.
Would be a great book for a day at the beach or a plane trip!
Weiner has a way of getting the reader deep inside the heads of her characters. These four women are very different, they have little in common except motherhood, yet they become tight friends. One is a perfectionist, one is a wife who's been cheated on, one lost her baby and one is a laid-back chef with her head firmly on her shoulders. The chef's mother-in-law-from-hell is both hilarious and frightening in its serious threat to her marriage. This is book to savor.
Why?
Really enjoyed this novel, which gave a great look at how life-changing motherhood can be by showing a spectrum of experiences. I particularly enjoyed the author's notes at the end about her own experiences becoming a mom and how different it was from her expectations.
She's such a funny, smart writer. Never disappoints on vacation!
This is one I read on the recommendation of a customer. It is a quick read in two sittings. Chick lit.Anyone who has ever been pregnant or a new mother will be able to identify with some of these scenarios.Again, not one I would have reached for on my own.3.5/5
Las tres van a dar a luz a su primer hijo, pero ninguna se imagina lo difícil que va a resultar criar a sus bebés cuando sus vidas se conviertan en un caos: Becky por la continua interferencia de su insoportable suegra, Kelly cuando su marido se queda inesperadamente sin trabajo y no parece tener muchas ganas de encontrar otro, y Ayinde cuando empiece a sospechar que su marido ha podido serle infiel.Y luego tenemos a Lia, una actriz de Hollywood que ha vuelto a su ciudad natal tras la muerte de su bebé, y que gracias a la amistad de las otras tres chicas saldrá adelante.Weiner se inspiró en su propia experiencia cuando fue mamá para crear esta historia, así que es posible que si no te puedes sentir identificada con las protagonistas porque nunca has tenido un bebé sea difícil conectar con este libro, que es lo que me pasó a mí.
An easy read with heartfelt characters, though some are underdeveloped. Ah motherhood- crazy ride!
Just shows you how much I did this weekend as well (nothing).This book was about 4 different women and at first I was afraid I was going to have a hard time keeping track, but like most books, it ended up being easy to tell everyone apart.
The book was mainly about 4 different women and how they dealt with their small families and new babies.Lia (Lisa) is the only person that spoke in first person.
I didn't find out that he died from SIDS until like halfway through the book and that is why Lia is back in Philly.
