https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4009.Nine_Stories
i know of three people who are totally obsessed with j.d. salinger:john hinckleymark david chapmangoodreads david i know of four reasons why i (must) love this book:1) because i don't want to see a list that looks like this:ronald reaganjohn lennongoodreads brian2) because in the early 80s salinger was a huge fan of the sitcom mr.
and while the tendency is to ridicule salinger for falling for a third-rate sitcom actress, it can’t help but humanize and endear him to any of us who have totally, completely, and inexplicably fallen for someone…3) because i'm a shameless contrarian and all you fuckers love to rag on the man.
Nine Stories = A Perfect Day for Bananafish (1948), Uncle Wiggily in Connecticut (1948), Just Before the War with the Eskimos (1948), The Laughing Man (1949), Down at the Dinghy (1949), For Esmé – with Love and Squalor (1950), Pretty Mouth and Green My Eyes (1951), De Daumier-Smith's Blue Period (1952), Teddy (1953), J.D. Salinger, Ahmad Golshiri (Translator)عنوانها: دلتنگیهای نقاش خیابان چهل و هشتم (نه داستان)؛ نه داستان؛ نویسنده: جی.دی. سالینجر (سلینجر)؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: در ماه سپتامبر سال
سالینجر (سلینجر)؛ مترجم: احمد گلشیری؛ تهران، پاپیروس، 1364؛ در 263 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، ققنوس، 1377؛ چاپ سوم 1380؛ چهارم 1381؛ پنجم 1382؛ هفتم 1385؛ نهم 1386؛ دهم 1387؛ یازدهم 1388؛ دوازدهم 1389؛ شابک: 9789643111564؛ موضوع: داستانهای کوتاه از نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 20 معنولن: نه داستان؛ نویسنده: جی.دی.
سالینجر (سلینجر)؛ مترجم: آسیه شهبازی؛ تهران، آوای مکتوب، 1394؛ در 224 ص؛ شابک: 9786007364246؛ موضوع: داستانهای کوتاه از نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 20 مدلتنگی‌های نقاش خیابان چهل و هشتم، یا «نه داستان» در عنوان انگلیسی کتاب؛ نام مجموعه ای اثر: جروم دیوید سلینجر، و شامل نه داستان کوتاه است.
This is as good of a short story collection that one could hope to find.
Salinger was a heck of a writer, certainly well known for his classic, The Catcher in the Rye, but there is much more out there, like this little jewel for example.
I give this 5 stars on the strength of two stories alone, but they all were good.
Salinger's experiences in the war certainly influenced his writing, and may have been partly responsible for his reclusiveness for the last 45 years of his life.Update: September 2017 is the release of the movie "Rebel in The Rye", which is based on the autobiography J.D. Salinger: A Life by Kenneth Slawenski.
It is the following belief, instilled primarily by my mother, an exceptionally smart woman who never suffered fools gladly, but had the mitigating grace to be one of the warmest, most generous women you could ever hope to meet, as well as having one of the greatest voices you can imagine  (Buttercup)  Here's the main thing she taught me: each of us has an inescapable responsibility to take whatever talent we have been given on this earth, and to develop it as far and as well as life allows.This is so deeply ingrained in my beliefs that I can pretty much trace every major decision I've made in my life back to it.What does this have to do with the price of eggs?
Because I can certainly understand why, given the perfection of the stories in this collection, any writer might not want to risk spoiling his reputation by following up with work that might not reach the same level.
قبلا ناتور دشت رو خونده بودم و حالم از شخصیت هولدن بهم خورده بود و با خودم عهد کرده بودم دیگه دنبال کتاب هایی از این نویسنده نرم که اصولا جو گیرها توی وبلاگ هاشون با آب و تاب میگن عالیه !
خصوصا داستان "تدی" مورد علاقه ی من بود ...
خود داستان تدی به اندازه کافی ارزش تک خونده شدن رو داره و مفاهیمش و گنجوندن بزرگی یک روح در یک کودک ده ساله توسط سلینجر برام خیلی جالب بود و نظرم در مورد این نویسنده حالا کمی بهتره ، امیدوارم اگر باز کتابی ازش به دستم رسید این نظر تقریبا مثبتم پس رفت نکنه بلکه از طرفدارهاش هم بشم ، البته امیدوارم ...
Nine Stories by J.D Salinger "There are nine deep, enigmatic narratives. It is always about the motives of childlike innocence, the adult world and the invaders of war in the lives of individuals and the isolation of a traumatized man. I was surprised that some stories bored me, although literary quality can be no doubt. Salinger's dialogues are fabulous, the course of the stories consistent. It's the portrait of an absolutely static Society.3,5/5
So maybe not that unusual.JDS famously published all his stuff between 1951 and 1963 and then STOPPED.
(Which is why the kidnappers pounced, they gave him a good ten year rest and that was ENOUGH to their way of thinking.) And he stopped just as things were getting really interesting.
I feel the absence of JDS throughout the 60s and 70s, as i feel the absence of another American writer who STOPPED in 1963, Sylvia Plath.
But I would like to publicly state that I do not condone the imprisonment of any writers for any reasons, so please don't try this at home.
Esme, her brother, Seymour's little friend and the narrator of "Laughing Man" are so vivid and real you feel like running them all down the street for ice cream and cake.
Same goes for Seymour in "Banana Fish" and the narrator of "For Esme." Nobody got into the heads of brilliant but troubled young people better than Salinger.
Of course that being said even being good but not great Salinger makes them better than most.Finally "Teddy," "Down in the Dinghy" and "Pretty Mouth Green My Eyes" are good stories but I feel they suffer from being collected in the same book as the others.
“Each of his phrases was rather like a little ancient island, inundated by a miniature sea of whiskey.” Oh J.D., why couldn’t you have published more of these amazing stories in your life time??? Nine Stories  -- a collection of brilliant short stories from J.D. Salinger. It is in this collection where the Glass family, the main constituents of  Franny and Zooey,  is first introduced. In the next eight stories, we meet and get to know characters with an assortment of mental and physical ailmen
-- a collection of brilliant short stories from J.D. Salinger.
In the next eight stories, we meet and get to know characters with an assortment of mental and physical ailments, and self-discoveries.This is my second journey with Salinger after 
The characters are very real; these are real people with real issues starting to overspill into their everyday lives.These stories haunted me.
-- loneliness, isolation, misrepresentation, reinvention, escape, connection?
We, all of us, can relate.This collection of stories should be read over and over again.
Does the Chief find love and is he actually The Laughing Man?
Ama yine de itiraf etmek gerekirse, uzun bir süredir beni bu kadar etkileyen, çiviyle yerime çakan öyküler okumamıştım.
Benim gibi öykü delisi biri için, bazı öykülerin, bazı atmosferlerin doğru zamanı var gibi geliyor hep.
Mesela 10 yıl önce okumuş olsam araya gidebilecek bir kitaptı benim için bu, o nedenle tam da şu günlerde okumuş olmaktan çok memnunum.
Dokuz öykünün hemen hepsinde, çocuk ve yetişkin perspektifi var.
Ben artık aradan yıllar da geçse, yüzlerce kitap da okusam, binlerce kahramanla da tanışsam Esme, Seymour, Teddy, Eloise, De-Daumier Smith ve Ginnie’yi unutamam mesela, bundan eminim.İyi metin okumak isteyenlere kesinlikle tavsiye edeceğim bir kitap Salinger’dan Dokuz Öykü.
Didnt enjoy any of the short stories and didnt enjoy getting to know the characters in any. Seemed to have a theme of wealthy people in solitude in someway or another.
Whether it is his absolutely perfect dialogue (I know of no other author who so accurately captures the rhythm and cadence of speech), his impulse (need?) to include a death in nearly all of his stories as if to remind us that even imaginary friends can get hit by buses, his endless attempts to put into words the passive disconnection from the rest of humankind that we all, at one point or other, feel overwhelmed by.
The ones where I turn the final page and sigh and wonder how I can convince other people that it's worth reading.
Consider this: There are 30,520 ratings for this book here on Good Reads.
I think I liked these best because I love the way Salinger writes about children.
I fell in love with the precocious Esme within the space of a few pages.
Down at the Dinghy features a sensitive little boy in self-exile on the family dinghy, and the way his mother gently coaxes him to come back up to the house.
Αν θελήσεις ποτέ να γράψεις διηγήματα, να ξέρεις οτι δε θα το κάνεις ποτέ τοσο καλά οσο ο Σάλιντζερ.
نمدونم ترجمه یه نارساییهایی داشت واقعاً یا نه، ولی ویرایشش یهکم اعصابمو خرد میکرد. کتابی که اینقد تجدید چاپ شده اونم. سلینجر اونم. داستانکوتاهاش اونم. سلینجر برا من یه جورایی مث دوا شده. هرازگاهی باید یه چیزی ازش بخونم که دوباره ریکاوری بشم. چندتا از داستانهای این مجموعه رو قبلاً هم خونده بودم(مثل یک روز خوش برای موز ماهی و دهانم فلان و چشمانم چنان :همر: خدایی چه مناسبتی داشت این اسم من نفهمیدم!) و کلاً دوست داشتم. بازم اینو خواهم خوند. ولی نه اینطور پشت سر هم. هر داستانو دیگه میکشه میرم میخونم.
نمدونم ترجمه یه نارسایی‌هایی داشت واقعاً یا نه، ولی ویرایشش یه‌‌کم اعصابمو خرد می‌کرد.
کتابی که اینقد تجدید چاپ شده اونم.
سلینجر اونم.
داستان‌کوتاهاش اونم.
سلینجر برا من یه جورایی مث دوا شده.
هرازگاهی باید یه چیزی ازش بخونم که دوباره ریکاوری بشم.
چندتا از داستان‌های این مجموعه رو قبلاً هم خونده بودم(مثل یک روز خوش برای موز ماهی و دهانم فلان و چشمانم چنان :همر: خدایی چه مناسبتی داشت این اسم من نفهمیدم!) و کلاً دوست داشتم.
ولی نه اینطور پشت سر هم.
هر داستانو دیگه می‌کشه می‌رم می‌خونم.
مثلاً تدی رو می‌دونم دیری نمی‌گذره که می‌رم باز می‌خونم.
عجب فضایی داشت.
Un lettore si sente onorato a leggere cotanta bellezza.Bella bocca e occhi miei verdi ★★★★1/2Amara l’incomunicabilità di matrimonio tra chi vive l’arte, e chi l’arte la subisce di riflesso.Un mosaico di indizi a ricostruire una situazione sul filo del rasoio: come per il primo racconto, la capacità di gestione dei dettagli da parte di Salinger mette quasi paura.Il periodo blu di De Daumier-Smith ★★★Simpatico racconto-aneddoto di taglio autobiografico che decreta la morte dell’individuo nel momento di massima contemplazione dell’arte.Teddy ★★★1/2Storia un pochettino sbilanciata e dagli intenti non troppo chiari.In mezzo alla confusione svetta il bellissimo monologo sull’amore “fasullo” genitoriale.P.S Un grazie al caro Phil per aver portato avanti questa edificante esperienza di lettura condivisa.
I may need a goddam transfusion.’From ‘Teddy’:Mr. McArdle played leading roles on no fewer than three daytime radio serials when he was in New York, and he had what might be called a third-class leading man’s speaking voice: narcissistically deep and resonant, functionally prepared at a moment’s notice to out-male anyone in the same room with it, if necessary even a small boy.A comment by precocious Teddy himself (about his parents):I mean they don’t seem able to love us just the way we are.
They don’t seem able to love us unless they can keep changing us a little bit.
Tutto ciò mi ha richiamato alla mente, per associazione di idee, gli esiti poetici del contrasto tra finito e non finito nell'opera di Michelangelo scultore.
E, come deve essere, lascia al lettore la decodificazione del messaggio, utilizzando gli strumenti della sua personale sensibilità ed esperienza.Ciascun racconto compreso nella raccolta è un piccolo scenario che si apre su un mondo, una storia e molte vite, compresa quella di chi legge.Straordinaria esperienza.
Not being too fond of Salinger’s Catcher in the Rye – and having, in fact, a vivid recollection of me chucking it after about a 100 pages into a far-flung, dusty corner out of sheer tedium in high school (reading assignments are hemlock for stubborn minds) - I wasn’t particularly looking forward to his short story collection.
In fact, I might have even been stupid enough to found a hipsterish J.D. Salinger worship cult.
A missed opportunity, I tell ya!
What masterpieces the world has missed out on as a result can only be guessed at.
L’intenzione è quella di rileggerli, ma non prima di aver studiato.Perché?Perché ne percepisco la po
Most of these stories make a statement (or two, or more) about how our past, and our interactions with each other, affect our lives. I had this feel that in some way, the stories represented our disconnections from one another, from reality, and from full knowledge; the slippery grasp we have of our perceptions, and our tendency to judge too quickly. Salinger often gets this across through arresting dialogue among individuals, typically with at least one of the individuals in some way being "di
I had this feel that in some way, the stories represented our disconnections from one another, from reality, and from full knowledge; the slippery grasp we have of our perceptions, and our tendency to judge too quickly.
Salinger shows this in some beautiful ways and eventually, by the end of the story, you see a special side to these people.
Even some of Salinger’s non-children characters have this element to their personality.A lot of the endings to these stories are phenomenal.
Through these endings your interpretation of what you had read, changes; the way you saw the story shifts, often resulting in quick, new perceptions and “aha!” moments.
The heart of each story is set to the beat of its characters accounts of the way in which they move through the world and interact with one another, from their confidential phone-calls and wisecracking conversations, to the cautious articulation of their understated feelings and nascent beliefs.
Salinger's characters are chosen chiefly for their capacity to spark potent dialogue.And the heavy dialogue used in some of the stories just works superbly well.
Vividly told, with gentle humour and a heightened sense of emotion, this collection opens with the stunning 'A Perfect Day for Bananafish', and sets the scene for the other eight stories, all of which ranged from good to very good.
Um dia ideal para o peixe-banana - ★★★★★Pai torcido no Connecticut - ★★★★Pouco antes da guerra com os esquimós - ★★★O homem que ri - ★★★★★Em baixo no bote - ★★★Para Esmé — com amor e sordidez - ★★★★★Linda boca e verdes meus olhos - ★★★★★A fase azul de De Daumier-Smith - ★★★★★Teddy - ★★★★★Contos que não acabam com a última página. Apetece-me ler tudo de novo e conjecturar mais um pouco.
شخصیت پردازی و فضا سازی واقعا محشر بود...با اینکه داستان کوتاه بود راحت میشد شخصیت ها و کاراکترها رو مجسم کرد.که بیشترشون هم انسان های خاص و درونگرا با عقاید عجیب و گاها عمیق بودن.از داستان تدی،دلتنگی های نقاش خیابان48 و مرد خندان و تقدیم به ازمه با عشق و نفرت بیشتر خوشم اومد.
In the aforementioned A Perfect Day for Bananafish, the opening dialogue that at first seems so disconnected from the second half of the story is brought into relief by its closing lines.
Some of the stories in this collection were stunning--Teddy is up there with some of the coolest I've read this year--while others failed to keep me excited to keep going.
Such is the gamble with a short story collection: you might not like every story!
I'd recommend this short collection for anyone looking to take down a classic or reevaluate their opinion of Salinger!
Reading this short story collection helps me to understand why Salinger was hounded to the ends of the earth in an effort to make him write again.
His characters are so poignant and so real; his children so precocious and on the brink of something wholly indefinable.
Salinger knows complete sorry, desperation and irony when he finds it.
As we peep into the world of his characters, who smoke their endless cigarettes, carry on their conversations of double meaning, and attempt to connect with others, we cannot help nodding in recognition of the knowledge that this is a microcosm of the human condition.
Spotless short stories. Perfectly constructed, not even a single extra word. And they fit perfectly together.
Nunca había leído nada de J.D. Salinger, es por ello que decidí comprarme este libro de cuentos, que es uno de sus tres títulos principales, junto con el aclamado “El Guardián entre el Centeno” y “Franny and Zooey”.
Tal vez, mi idea o concepción de cuentos se asemeja más a otros estilos narrativos como por ejemplo el que propugnaba Edgar Allan Poe, creador del cuento moderno cuando afirmaba que un cuento debía causar un “efecto” en el lector, para que este quedara atrapado hasta el final.He notado también que tal vez algunos novelistas no parecen dominar el terreno de cuentos como otros.
La vita è un caval donatoNon starò a ripetere il solito mea culpa sulla narrativa breve, trascurata e subordinata ai romanzi, ritenuti a lungo non solo la migliore ma l’esclusiva forma letteraria degna di nota.Poi mi sono imbattuto in Wallace e Carver, Saunders e la Munro ed altri ancora e le eccezioni sono diventate regola, ma ciò non mi ha impedito di stupirmi di fronte a questa ennesima dimostrazione, firmata J.D.Salinger, della sottile malìa del racconto e delle sue pressoché infinite potenzialità allusive.Nel merito, cosa posso dire di questa eccellente raccolta, tanto scarna nel titolo quanto ricca nelle nove direzioni in cui l’arte del narrare si spinge, una raccolta della quale tutto è stato già analizzato?
خوندن این کتاب با ملال و سختی همراه بود...سالینجر! اصلا نمیتونم باهاش کنار بیامیک روز خوش برای موزماهی:4عمو ویگیلی در کانه تی کت:1پیش از جنگ با اسکیموها:1مرد خندان:1انعکاس افتاب بر تخته های بار انداز:2تقدیم به ازمه با عشق و نکبت:2دهانم زیبا و چشمانم سبز:3دلتنگی های نقاش خیابان چهل و هشتم:5تدی:1میانگین میشه 2
شما باید شناسایی کنین که هر شخصیتی یا هر چیزی دقیقا نماد چه چیز دیگه ایه و به چی دلالت می کنه.
این ارتباط گیری با داستان ها رو کمی سخت می کنه.
البته اگه بخواین فقط به لایه ی سطحی نگاه کنین ممکنه بگین داستان ها قوی نیستن یا خوشتون نمیاد اما داستان ها خیلی خوبن به شرطی که چیزی که توشون بیان می شه، توسط مخاطب درک بشه.
من از این دو بیشتر خوشم اومد.درضمن اون چیزی که به نظر میاد در اکثریت داستان ها حضورش حس می شه، گذشته، ناخودآگاه و چیزهایی شکل گرفته بر اثر جلوه ای از واقعیت در ذهنه.
Mi trovai come trascinato a pensare che qualunque cosa facessi per diventare un uomo capace di amministrare la sua vita con distacco, con buon senso o con eleganza, sarei sempre stato tutt’al più un visitatore in un giardino di orinali e pappagalli smaltati, con una cieca divinità di legno ritta in un angolo, vestita d’un cinto armato».Sono felice, persino orgogliosa di aver salutato il 2015 e inaugurato il 2016 in compagnia di un tipetto come Salinger.
Il modo in cui Salinger scrive è questo:lui prende la penna e, come un pittore, appoggia prima un segno, poi l’altro.
Il modo in cui Salinger scrive è questo:essendo disperatamente umano.
Il modo in cui Salinger scrive è questo:perciò che gli eredi si sbrighino a tirare fuori i suoi manoscritti inediti, per Dio!
La barriera della razionalità, gli argini costruiti dall'esperienza, le consuetudini del cercare determinate cose e fare attenzione ad altre, durante una lettura.Potrei quindi dire tantissime cose su questi racconti: potrei parlare della maestria di Salinger nel tratteggiare storie brevi, che nascono da frammenti di frasi e gesti precisi, si costruiscono quasi da sole e improvvisamente si dipanano nella mente del lettore come scene ampie e strutturate, con un passato definito e un futuro coerente, e improvvisamente terminano in finali significativi, appena accennati, inconclusi a volte, ma sempre, sempre appropriati.
So, it’s not surprising to see this reflected in stories first published as a set in 1953.
I confess found these the hardest to warm to.Quite a few of the tales feature children having grown-up conversations with adults they’ve not previously met.
In fact, all the conversations in all the stories feel real and alive, aided by the author’s preference for using italics to emphasise certain words, or parts of words.My favourite is The Laughing Man, in which a revered leader (known as The Chief) regales young members of the Comanche Club, in the 1920’s, with tales of a mythical hero.
একটা বই পড়তে গিয়ে ইমোশনগুলো এত রোলার কোসটারে চড়ে, কিছু কিছু ভালো লাগা, না লাগা - এমনকি শেষটাতে বইটাতে ৫তারা দিয়ে আমি নিজেই অবাক হয়ে গিয়েছি।৯টা গলপ সবমিলিয়ে কেমন? কিছু গলপ আজিমপুর থেকে নীলকষেতে যাবার পথে সনধযার পর যে একটা দীরঘায়িত টরযাফিক জযাম পড়ে, সেই জযামে বসে চিবানো পপকরন এর মত নিররথক কিনতু পরয়োজনীয়। আবার কিছু গলপ বছরের এই দীরঘায়িত দিনগুলোতে অফিস থেকে আগে আগে ফিরে বিকেল-ঘুম দেবার মতই আকাঙকষিত। কিছু গলপ কোন কাজ করতে ভালো না লাগা মন নিয়ে দেওয়ালের দিকে মুখ ফিরিয়ে আলসযে শুয়ে থাকবার মতন। আবার কিছু

I took 4 days to read this thin book, not because I didn't get enough time, but because all the nine stories had such an engrossing impact on me.
Every time I finished reading a story, I'd HAVE to set the book aside and think about what just happened there.
Every time it was like a big blow inside my head that'd block all other thoughts for some time, all but one.I usually don't prefer short stories because I enjoy my reading mostly when I get a feeling that I know each and every character in and out, which obviously takes time.
Quelli che non mi hanno colpito, nonostante la pregevolezza stilistica, si sono rivelati forse eccessivamente criptici e mi hanno lasciato davvero indifferente.Questa forte discrepanza tra i miei personali giudizi mi ha stupito: penso possa essere una riprova della grande ambizione dell'autore nel cesellare questi racconti complessi, da "tutto o niente".Un Salinger che fa capolino in ogni singolo racconto, intessendo nelle trame costanti elementi autobiografici, dalle peculiari concezioni filosofiche dello scrittore alla denuncia dell'antisemitismo presente negli Stati Uniti, fino alle esperienze in Europa, in particolare durante la Seconda Guerra Mondiale.La feroce critica contro la guerra è forse il tema più ricorrente nell'arco dell'antologia, con accenni più o meno velati in ogni racconto.
3.5 StarsSome stories were amazing, like the first story and that ending of it.. written so calmly that it shocks. Some were good and some just felt dated
Nove Histórias...Nove obras de arte...Nem sempre de fácil entendimento, obrigando a pensar e a reler e a pensar...
3.5Nine storiesPerhaps there is a Secret in this bookThat is why I need to re-read it but later
In ogni raccolta di racconti bisognerebbe quindi analizzare i punti comuni per capire meglio perché lo scrittore ha messo insieme racconti apparentemente diversi tra loro.Tutto questo probabilmente risulta ad un lettore medio (come me) non immediato e i racconti, letti genericamente senza la dovuta attenzione, restano insapori, senza collegamento, di significato approssimativo, creando disamoramento o insofferenza verso il genere.
È una cosa che non va bene."Dialoghi perfetti, folgoranti.
با ترجمه احمد گلشيري كتاب دو ستاره هم ندارد، فاجعه و عجيب. اسم كتاب من در آورديست، اسم چندتا داستان عوض شده، آقاي گلشيري نه آنقدر داستان ميفهمد نه مشروعيت دارد. ناشري كه هنوز اين كتاب را با اين وضعيت منتشر ميكند مسئول ايت. كتاب در اصل چيزي كم از شاهكار ندارد. چند داستانش مرجع و مأخذ اغلب كلاسهاي داستان نويسي است ديگر. اصلن سالينجر داستاني با اين نام احمقانه مزخرف ندارد. لحنها منتقل نشده.خلاصه اينقدر صريح نوشتم كه ياد توي خواننده بماند كه كتاب ميلنگد و سالينجر ميرقصد به واقع
Jerome David Salinger’s collection, Nine Stories, has been mandatory reading in high schools for many years, and as a result has been considered (by most rational human beings) a scourge worse than any seen since the Black Plague of 1347 which resulted in numerous school closures, widespread tardiness, multiple instances of homework submitted that was not produced by the matriculator handing it in, bubonic plague bacteria festering in chewing gum stuck to the bottom of assorted desks, and the deaths of an estimated 75-200 million students (luckily, mostly freshman) across Eurasia.Coach Freeman blames Nine Stories for his football team losing 52-0 to the crosstown rival Panthers.
And the reason for this is that Salinger and his stories reveal that high-minded literature, art in other words, can be accessible to everyone.
I needed to read a non-Goodreads friend recommended book for a challenge, and this is what I got saddled with.
I've never read any Salinger, and honestly, this doesn't have me rushing out to change that fact.
I started it at the dentist today, thinking that short stories would be suited better to the name-called-then-sit-and-wait, rinse, repeat style of office visits.
Was there a point?
Oh wait, there was actually one story in this collection that I almost halfway liked.
Because it was the closest to actually BEING a story.
Ezgi. :')
