https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/200573.Money_for_Nothing
As far as voicing the upperclass English twit, Cecil's top of his class!Money for Nothing follows a common Wodehouse template of love combined with caper.
In fact some of these characters are recurring:The action is mostly set at Rudge Hall, home to miser Lester Carmody, and at Healthward Ho, a health farm run by "Chimp" Twist, along with his cohorts "Soapy" and "Dolly" Molloy, who all previously appeared in Sam the Sudden (1925), and returned in Money in the Bank (1946).
And this book ain't a bad thing!
Damn! I usually love Wodehouse, so to read a book of his that I only liked was hugely disappointing.The beginning was the best with some wonderfully witty lines- especially during the first meeting of Molloy & Lester Carmody. I was hopeful that this book was going to develop at the same mad cap speed of my all time favourite Wodehouse   But the final two thirds of the book was a muddled mess & I hardly cracked a smile.
Wodehouse wordplay and a few new twists plus one old one, so to speak, on a standard Wodehouse plot. What's not to enjoy?
I'm a big fan of Wodehouse and consider his writing marvellous in every way.
Well, perhaps every way except one: Wodehouse novels are hard to read if you don't plug away at them consistently or devour them in one or two sittings.
The plots and characters are simply too similar to remember between one reading and the next, especially if you, like me, have read so many of his books.
One gets the impression that Wodehouse watched a bunch of mobster movies set in Chicago before sitting down to write this and the language is ripped straight from American movies and dislocated to the English countryside.
This is worth reading just for that chapter.
After reading a spate of Jeeves and Wooster books, Money for Nothing seems refreshingly, umm...fresh.
It could be I'm a sucker for a book where the guy actually wants the girl.
Bertie Wooster, bless his heart, is a character from the start, but he doesn't seem to develop one smidgen from one book to the next.
In Money for Nothing, P.G. Wodehouse doesn't have to worry about keeping Bertie "just-so", and his characters develop quite nicely from start to finish.
The setting is quite nice to spend time reading about too, and there is no shortage of the laugh-aloud scenes that keep me reading and rereading Wodehouse.
PG Wodehouse will always get 5 stars from me. Not because of his insight into human nature or his straightforward plots, but for the way he can turn a phrase. It’s always refreshing, totally entertaining and a wonderful light summer read.
Comic genius at work in top form! Who but Wodehouse can dream up scenes like1. A lord stuck on a second floor windowsill with a curious bird investigating proceedings.2. A sozzled aristocrat quoting Shakespeare to a terrified burglar.And many more!The world would be a much poorer place without regular doses of PGW.
MONEY FOR NOTHING.
Wodehouse.
***.This was a typical Wodehouse of confusion and mayhem, once you got passed all the false starts in the story line.
It’s almost as if the author was making it up as he went along, using his bag of tricks to fill in the blanks.
When he finally settled down, the story was about money and how to get it when the laws of the land were against you.
(There may be one still for all I know.) This law specified that property on an estate could be left to its heirs in perpetuity, and was not to be sold for gain by any of the succeeding heirs.
even minor P G Wodehouse gives more pleasure than virtually anything else that you can read.
Wodehouse is my favorite escape from the real world.
Wodehouse will always get in a few passages of beautifully written prose in every book. But given his usually high standard, I was a little disappointed with this one. For one thing, he gives dialogue to a dog, which just doesn't work. Add to that that this book lacks some of his most well-known and well-loved characters, and I'm afraid this isn't in the top half of what he's written.
The comedy circus meets a French farce, is one way of describing the various characters and the unlikely situations they find themselves in.Of all the characters P.G.Wodehouse has created, I like his Female protagonists best. he always gives a miss to a simpering miss. Here's one whose frog changes into a prince.
There is nobody like Wodehouse when you need a spot of madcap escapades and hilarious shenanigans.
Forget for a moment about Barth, Sterne and Pynchon, and this would be the funniest thing since Jerome K. Jerome (some 25 years older, in my case).
A standalone Wodehouse that doesn't disappoint. A classic plot involving robbers, hidden identities, and lots of comedy.
(Finally got to really read and finish the book that has been on my reading shelf almost thru the year)I read a PG Wodehouse after years(!) and it was as charming and hilarious as ever...
complete with its eccentric characters, unconventional situations and madcap escapades...It was like going back into time - a lazy day, doing nothing, just enjoying the dry humour and style of writing...The plot centres around a fake burglary to claim insurance money...
and the title is apt as the attempt is to get money for nothing!!
42 WORD REVIEW:More or less the quintessential Wodehouse novel, with a country manor, a romance frustrated by misunderstanding, comings, goings, comedy mishaps, and several greedy protagonists locked in a tangle of one-upmanship, all exquisitely facetious in the telling, the prose gilded in its loquacity.
A gentle entertainer for lazy holidays, this book has all the trademark Wodehouse characteristics (hard uncles, romantic youngsters, butlers, absurd feuds) along with gangsters! The book doesn't really standout with many of the usual PGW plotlines used with the usual sprinkling of wit in each chapter. The highlight for me was the Healthward Ho chapter where Dr Twist makes New men for old!
Quirky and fun, as usual for Wodehouse, but it's a plot he's done before and this time not nearly as solidly. While I love Wodehouse's seeming haphazardness when it comes to storytelling, this one was one of those where it didn't quite work.
Another classic Wodehouse. We listened to this one on a family road trip from North Carolina to Ohio and back to New York. It frequently had me laughing out loud. Definitely kept me awake during the long stretches in Pennsylvania!
We listened to audio version. Such a fun book and really enjoyed the author's use of language.
uses many of the recurring scenarios of Wodehouse's other stories (mistaken identity, stolen valuables, forbidden love,..) but does it so well that it doesn't seem formulaic. a really enjoyable read.
There aren’t many things that cheer up a day as surely as the delightful ending of a PG Wodehouse book.
Grand wordplay on every page!
This Wodehouse didn't grip me as others have, but Wodehouse is always good.
Really fun!Took a little longer for all the storylines to pull together but man was it funny when they did. Some laugh out loud paragraphs and one-liners in the final stretches of this one!
Wodehouse!!Always elevating to read Wodehouse. Very entertaining book. Difficult to leave till finished. One of the very good non Jeeves book.
A very simple and predictable story in current times.However, the writing style of Wodehouse makes it an enjoyable read.I have a feeling that it would make a good plot for a Priyadarshan movie.
Soapy and Dolly Molloy have grown on me.
“But are we going to sit still and let perishers with wax mustaches burgle the house whenever they feel inclined and not do a thing to bring their gray hairs in sorrow to the grave?”
