https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/224269.In_My_Father_s_Court
In this collection of short stories, Nobel laureate Isaac Bashevis Singer, recalls his childhood in the household and rabbinical court of his father, a Hasidic Rabbi in Warsaw’s Jewish quarter, before and during the first World War. Although I.B.Singer vividly portrays the way of life of this former Hasidic community, which was largely annihilated during the second World War, the book was a disappointment to me in more ways than one.
The stories about the rabbinical court were the reason I wanted to read the book in the first place though.
I just wanted to complete my "record" of Bashevis - Singer books that I had started as mandatory reading in high school and kept reading as I got hooked.Unfortunately, on my recent trip to Israel I had to say goodbye to my grandmother who passed away.
After my grandma's passing I didn't read the book, I swallowed its words with unbelievable thirst.
I started understanding many aspects of my grandma that were enigmatic to me before.I enjoyed this book tremendously and was extremely sad when I took in the last word.
I don't know how Singer is able to capture childhood memories after so many years, across cultures, and still be able to paint such a vivid, nuanced and complex picture of a childhood in Hasidic Warsaw. Singer doesn't impart judgment one way or another about the value of his childhood lifestyle. He only recreates it with words. And from my vantage point he excels spectacularly!
The first several autobiographical tales vibrate with wonder.
As the book, and time, move forward it loses the bizarrely beautiful metaphors and explanations of the unknown that come with very young children.
I want to read his book of fairy tales.
But as time moves forward you go as he did.
First with innocence, curiosity, and head-shaking at the human condition.
A beautiful book about a time before the first World War. About villages and scholarship and the Talmud.
About people with their spitefulness and their too-few-saints.
A human book which understands religious people but also wonders about what's outside those narrow communities.
In one of his last books Singer's recalls his childhood in a Hassidic family in 1910s Warsaw.
The old way of life focused around religion is quickly becoming a thing of the past, especially as the economic misery of war is pushing the Jews whose life was previously devoted to the study of the Torah to much more immediate concerns than theology.Some might find Singer's romanticising of the conservative community in which he grew up as conservative and backward-looking, it is hard not to ultimately fall for the magic of the Hassidic way of life which he evokes in his beautiful descriptions, poignant anecdotes, and a child-like perspective attributing a great significance to the smallest details that less insightful writers (or those observing from outside) could never pick out.
Had to look up many Yiddish words to understand the book. It's one of the best memoirs I read until now, and it definitely goes on my "to re-read" list.
A most enjoyable collection of stories, autobiographical in nature, describing events from the author's childhood in Warsaw, living inside a closed religious Jewish community, where his devout father is this community's Rabbi and judge. It gives the reader a glimpse into a culture no longer in existence, creating similar effect to the one Gorky's "My Childhood" had on me.
4.5 starsI read this book for a class about Jewish literature. Singer is a really good author, I love his characters, and how you can see him growing up throughout the book. His insights about religion and life make this collection of stories wonderful.
Hienoja pieniä kertomuksia maailmasta ja yhteisöstä, jota ei enää ole. Singer kuvaa yksityiskohtaisesti viime vuosisadan alun Varsovan juutalaiskorttelin asukkaita, joiden rabbina kirjailijan isä toimi. Usko ja uskonnollisuus vahvasti läsnä. 3,5 tähteä minulta.
Prachtige autobiografische verhalen, die een inkijk geven in de chassidische wereld in Polen aan het begin van de vorige eeuw.
Actually only 20-30% stories from his father's court (beth din), and the rest are brief, and sometimes random, snippets of autobiography.
Ein paar Kurzgeschichten. Meistens ohne Pointe und trotzdem gut. Mann lässt sich von Frau scheiden, um jüngere zu heiraten. Es stellt sich heraus, seine Frau wollte es so. Dann sterben alle.
excceptional short stories, not to be missed.
In this collection in which Singer brings to life on the page the childhood he spent in the pre-WWII Jewish community in Poland, he includes much about the piety and even holiness of certain of the rabbis, including his own father.
I admit that stylistically and literarily, the writing is not as good as in certain of his other collections.
I believe these stories started out as vignettes that ran in the Jewish Daily Forward; the writing style is more pedestrian than what is found in, say, A Crown of Feathers.
This book is not a nostalgia trip - it is really an effort to depict things "as they were" in Singer's inimitable style.It's fascinating to read this book along with "A World That Is No More" by I.J. Singer and "Deborah" by Esther Singer Kreitman; each book reviews the family's origins and life first in small-town Poland and then in Warsaw, and each book has something unique to say.
Que du contraire, Singer romance son enfance dans les rues juives de Varsovie vers 1905-1920, une communauté tiraillée entre tradition et modernité.
Certes dans notre monde la Torah ne peut plus être la loi de nos sociétés laïques mais l'amour et la confiance y président et donnent un autre autre jour à la justice.
Il y'a un proverbe italien qui dit que sans l'amour la volonté de justice fait défaut...
On ne peut s'empêcher de penser au ghetto quelques années plus tard qui verra la confrontation d'un monde très traditionnel suivant ses propres lois avec les lames nazies sans émotions et barbares.
I grabbed this tome at the Friends of the Library sale because I had read and enjoyed Mr. Singer's Stories for Children years ago. I was once again treated to a well-written and entertaining book. This one's a memoir of Mr. Singer's childhood in early 20th Century Poland. His father was a pious, conservative rabbi, which meant a conservative and somewhat impoverished upbringing. But such a life resulted in a wealth of anecdotes from his family, community and his father's Beth din or rabbinic court.
These are all anecdotal stories of Jewish life in Poland in the early 20th century. They are funny and engaging for someone like me, but really for one reason only - that these are my ancestors (my father's parents were born in Poland). That culture is my grandparents' culture, and had a definite influence on Israeli culture in the 50's and 60's. I only read about 10 or 15 of the stories, and though I enjoyed reading them, this would most likely not be interesting at all to anyone who doesn't have the personal connection to the time and place.
This is a clever fascinating memoir written by a great author about growing up in the early 1900s. His Father, a rabbi in Warsaw, held his 'rabbinical court" in his home where he dealt with interpersonal relationships between his neighbors. The rich, the poor, the learned and the ignorant all came through his door to seek advice or justice. Each chapter is a stand along story but together they draw a picture of a world that no longer exists. This is a keeper - its on my bookshelf at home now if you want to borrow it.
Singer has collected his childhood memories in this charming collection. He grew up in an ultra-orthodox home in pre-WWII Warsaw, one of the youngest children of two highly intelligent, devout people. It's a very intimate account, and also quite moving. The upcoming Holocaust is a constant shadow over the characters, but it doesn't interfere with the joy that comes across in many episodes. (As a random aside, Singer also wrote the story that became the movie "Yentl", and won the Nobel Prize in 1978.)
A collection of short stories that altogether make up a memoir of Singer's life growing up in a conservative Hasidic community in Warsaw in the early 1900s. I have a fascination with Jewish literature and culture, and this book did not disappoint. For me, the first half read faster than the last. The last bit seemed a whirlwind of names without enough of the mystical story to hold it together.
A memoir story retelling of the author's childhood. An interesting look at Jewish life in WWI era Europe, though I frankly found this aspect of the book dull and frustrating - it was as if the author was nostalgic for his backwards looking Hasidic past. Despite Singer's storytelling ability, without a main conflict or central plot to the book I simply read it to finish it and move on to the next book.
A timeless classic with good reason. I read it years ago and appreciate it even more today. It's a portrait of a time, a place and a particular culture, but Singer could easily be describing the members of my idiosyncratic Southern family circa 2009 instead of the Hasidic Jews of early 20th century Poland.
The first few stories, set in the author's early childhood, seem a bit nostalgic and quaint- but as he becomes a teenager, we learn about more unpleasant matters, such as World War I and all manner of deadly epidemics.
This is a superb history of the Jewish community in Poland before and during the First World War. It deals with the intimate world of a rabbi, the father of the author. And in view of the holocaust, it is deeply nostalgic and poignant since this world and these people are no more.
Account of author's youth in Poland and the world of his father, a rabbi, who served as a local judge and law giver. Told from a child's perspective, but contains many wonderful vignettes and lessons about Jewish life. Recommended by Steve Roberts on NPR.
I enjoyed this a lot, storytelling and short pieces and engaging voice. Also enjoyed learning about Poland when he grew up there. My great-grandfather also left because things were so chaotic there.
I read the second series of 'In My Father's Court' stories by Singer some years ago in a beautiful Dutch translation (Meer verhalen van het hof van mijn vader, Privé Domein nr. 245) and enjoyed those alot. So now I am reading these first autobiographical anecdotes in English.
With a bit of a Prarie Home Companion but set in pre-WWI Warsaw feel, I was prepared to adore this book. It has some truly lovely moments, and I would recommend it. It just didn't crest to the greatness I anticipated in the first few stories.
I find this book so haunting. I read it years and years ago, and I still often think of the stories. True, this is the story of my ancestors... My family is from Poland. I could just read more and more stories like this about the lives they lived.
