https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/776891.Deathwatch
That's what I think of it.This book is about Ben, a college-aged boy who needs money for college.
This man, Madec, accidentally shoots an old man.
While Ben is working to get the old man in the Jeep, Madec makes it look like Ben shot the old man.
Madec makes Ben strip down and walk 45 miles out into the desert without any food or water.
He shoots Madec and drives into town.In the town, no one believes him and he is put on trial.
Luckily, Madec left one loose string out of his story and Ben is not convicted.
It is a book about a guy that goes hunting with a man and ends up trying to kill one another.In the book a man names Medec is hunting with a high school hunting guide named Ben. Medec thinks he has a clear shot at a longhorn sheep.
Ben says that should go back to town and tell the truth about the dead old man but Medec thinks differently so he takes away all of Ben's clothes and makes him try to survive.Ben then runs away and tried to survive in the desert.I would recommend the book to an high school ages boy because there is parts that could be scary for younger kids.Four out of five star rating.
Robb White, Deathwatch (Doubleday, 1972)When I was a kid-- say, from about three years old until high school-- I did a lot more rereading than I do now.
I think everyone does this with a kids' picture book or two, but there were three novels I did it with in fifth and sixth grade.
When you're thirty-nine, not so much, but it didn't lose nearly as much impact as I expected it to reading it all these years later.The story: a local boy named Ben, looking to make money for college, offers to escort a city-dweller named Madec on a bighorn hunt.
YA novels didn't cover such gritty material and rarely were the young protagonists put in mortal jeopardy (more often than not an adult/authority figure would eventually come along and make things right) and have to rely on their own abilities to survive.
However by the early seventies the "world" was showing up every night ,at dinnertime, in the form of the evening news.
"Deathwatch" is a pretty good novel.
This type of story (lone hero in the wilderness on the run from villains) was pretty popular in the sixties and seventies.
I'm interested to see how my seventh and eighth grade students will react to this book in 2013-2014.
It was written in the 70s, and the last time I read it was in the 90s, when it was assigned reading for eighth grade English students in my fieldwork school.
If it were a story merely about surviving the heat without dehydrating, and finding food and shelter, it would be interesting, but the addition of being hunted adds significantly to the suspense - and there is more that Ben must endure beyond surviving adverse conditions and being hunted.
I read this in 6th grade and I remembered two main things about it a) i had read it in one sitting and found it super compelling and action packed b) the main boy was totally naked about it, which aa) gave 6th grade Colleen the giggles and bb) I blame this book and my overactive imagination for me becoming boy crazy.
Sure it had it's moments but I was rather bored through most of it, which is odd considering it's a book about a man hunting a teenage boy in the dessert and how he survives.
This is the book that I read in the seventh grade that made me want to be a criminal prosecuting lawyer! I can't believe that I forgot it (thankyou Tara for reading it)!! We read it as a class and didn't read the last chapter. We put on a mock trial with the two main characters as prosecution and defense cilents. I was one of the prosecution lawyers. In the history of the seventh grade english teachers doing this activity with their classes the prosecution never won the case. Until me....it felt good.
WOW!Thought of the Short story about how a man is hunter and he hunts people, "The Most Dangerous Game, Richard Connell and the various movies that have been made off of this theme.Easily sucked into and entrapped.Survival at its best.Great thing is man who doesn't panic and thinks, problem solves will win.
Ben is hired to take Madec through the dessert to find the bighorn he's hunting. A horrible accident occurs which rapidly escalates the situation and puts Ben in serious danger. Ben must now use his versatile abilities to keep from becoming vulture chow.
I read this in 6th grade and thought it was great, but I must have blocked out the ending because it's terrible. The dude pretty much gets hunted for sport and finally gets back to town, and everyone immedialty calls him a liar (even his family). The only plausable explanation to how awful everyone in town acts, is that Ben is a really big jerk, and everyone hated him already and wanted to see him burn for something random.
this was a great book and would highly recommend if you like to hunt r if you like mystery or both subjects at the same time but be warned this is a very hard book at times to follow along with and will even be boring to a hunter I would know because I am one myself but how they work up to one event after another is slow and could use some work in only that area
The ending was not what I wanted, but this book was hard to put down!
Madec is a long time big game hunter and wants Ben to guide him through the desert to hunt bighorn sheep.
Madec tells Ben that if they go back to report the accident his permit to hunt will run out of days, and he offers him even more money, and an opportunity to work with one of the biggest oil companies.
Madec tracks him all through the desert until finally Ben starts showing symptoms of extreme thirst.
Madec starts to climb the butte, and this spurs Ben into action.
He buries himself in the sand, and waited til Madec started to climb the butte again.
Could you imagine trying to survive in the desert with no clothes or shoes, and having a man trying to kill you?
Ben, the main character of the book, is doing just that.
Ben is struggling with having no water to drink and has an idea to climb a butte to a tunnel that will get him out of the sun and provide him with food.
The main characters of this book are Ben and Madec.
Ben is a young college kid who needs money to continue on with his studies.
Madec is a high paying hunter who has a once in
Could you imagine trying to survive in the desert with no clothes or shoes, and having a man trying to kill you?
The main characters of this book are Ben and Madec.
Ben struggles to survive with no clothes and has nothing to defend himself from Madec, who is trying to get rid of Ben because he witnessed him kill an old man that no one knows.
Ben is struggling to get away from Madec and the question throughout the book is if he will be able to.
This book reminds me of going on hunting trips with my dad.
It turns out it was not a bighorn, but instead an old man wondering the desert alone.
Ben wants to report the accident, but Madec wants to bury the old man and carry on hunting.
Madec leaves Ben stranded in the desert: no clothes, food, or water.
This is shown through the relationship between Madec and Ben. I selected to read this book because I thought the cover of the book looked intriguing and I have always enjoyed survival books.
I thought this book would be another stereotypical survival story, but Robb White really brought Ben’s struggle for survival to life through Ben’s emotions and injuries.
When Ben attempts in doing the right thing by reporting the accident, Madec disagrees, and forces Ben to strip down to his shorts and tells him to walk across the desert to the highway.
I liked I because you knew that Ben was telling the truth about what had happened in the desert, and you knew that Madec was lying about it.
You just wanted to crawl yourself into the book and tell them that Madec was making his story up and that Ben was being truthful.
If you enjoyed the Percy Jackson series, then I would like to personally suggest reading Deathwatch.
Joyce BakerAdventureBen, a 22 year old college student, was a hunting guide to a man named Madec.
Madec claimed he wanted to catch a bighorn sheep.
Instead Madec “accidentally” shot an old man and tried to hide him from Ben. Ben stumbled across the body and wanted to report it to the sheriff.
Back in town, Ben’s story sounded fantastical and no one believed him.
It was as poor Ben could not catch a break.
Everyone believed Madec as his story was more plausible.
I liked Ben because he was able to keep his character no matter how events were stacked against him.
I usually hate books I am assigned to read, and this one is no exception.
There are only two characters, Ben and Madec, and the main, and only, problem is that Ben is trying to survive in the desert with just nothing.
Basically the whole idea was that Madec accidentally shot a guy, mistaking it for a bighorn sheep.
After that, Ben wanted to report the accident to the sheriff and Madec decided to make him leave everything there and tell them himself.
The people I would suggest this to are the people who like survival.
If you don't like survival, don't read this book.
Somehow, regardless of my years of reading and teaching YA literature, I managed to miss Robb White's survival story, Deathwatch.
Survival and action are not my genres (along with sic-fi and fantasy), but I was intrigued by the man vs wild and man vs man story line.
Several years ago I read Touching Spirit Bear with the same group of students, and they were quite responsive to Ben Mikaelson's classic.
I expect the reviews to be positive, especially from boys.Hence, I would recommend this book to anybody who enjoys action, survival and coming of age stories.
a man named Matec hired Ben to be his hunting guide for big horn sheep in the desert mountains.
once they get up to the mountains Matecs suits up old man, He says that he mistaked him for a sheep.
Ben has to try and survive hiding from attic in the mountains with no food or water.
I do not think this book was made into a movie.
I think some of the weaknesses were that he did not do enough run out at the end of the book.
I think this book is good for the age range from 12 to 18.
The book, Deathwatch by Robb White, is about a man named Ben who takes a man named Madec on a Bighorn hunt.
Due to a seires of misfortunes, Ben is now naked in the desert with no food or water and he is being hunted by a madman.I rated the book as I did because it was very suspenseful and it had very believable characters.
The strenghts are the suspensful plot and the very detailed discription of the settings and characters fellings.
However, I think sometimes in the book, the author would draw out what was happening to such a certain extent that you could get confused about what was happening.
A teenage boy is set in the desert, naked, without shoes, water, food or any other resources while a man hunts him down.
I read this all in one day as it's a short novel, but a worthwhile one.
(I usually book hop from book to book when I read, reading up to five or six at a time.) But I put all else aside for this book.It's short, compact, and packs a nice little wallop.
A great read for a train or plane ride, or if you don't get motion sickness, a long car trip in the back seat with some chips and a drink nearby.I will read more by this author.
The setting is in a desert with two guys named Ben and Madec.
The action from this book just kept pulling me into it just like it pulled my friend in.
My friend explained how I really needed to read this book.
I read that they were suppose to go hunting, but then I ended up finding out there was a plot twist.
Madec started hunting Ben down surprisingly.
I would suggest this book to anyone that liked adventure, survival, and plot twist books.
My friend recomended it to me and I feel like you too should read it!
Deathwatch is an action-packed book about right and wrong, integrity and guile, and survival.The geological descriptions help paint a vivid picture of the California desert, the rugged setting for this gripping story.This story is a reminder that sometimes bad things happen to good people.
That doesn't make it okay to become a bad person, even if the result of such action is fairer than the consequence of doing the right thing.
Most of the time, though, if you do the right thing, it will pay off.
Definitely read this book to see if it pays off for Ben, the hard-working college student who's facing a life or death moral dilema.
Deathwatchis a good, solid juvenile suspense novel, In fact, it won the Edgar Award for best juvenile mystery in 1973.
The copy I read was grabbed from my classroom library, and it originally came from a stack of discarded books I rescued from the library of the high school where I teach.
Reading it reminded me of why I liked Robb White so much when I read Secret Sea, Up Periscope, and The Survivor back in the fifth and sixth grades.
Oddly enough, my freshman English students had just last week read "The Most Dangerous Game." Now I can steer any student who wants more of the same sort of story to this little gem.
Deathwatch is a thrilling, full of action book that keeps you on the edge of your seat.
It will keep you captivated as Ben struggles to survive the challenges he faces.Ben was always a good boy who loved the desert, and knew it up and down.
One day, Ben gets a job offer to guide a man named Madec to hunt Big horn sheep.
But when an accidental murder is committed, Ben is forced to wander through the desert with no clothes, food or water.
Will Ben survive?I did not like this book very much, but if you like the hard-core/action/survival genre, then this book is for you.
Imagine trying to make a little money for college by guiding a hunter to some big horn. Easier said than done when a sudden twist occurs. An old prospector, .358 magnum shot to the forehead, dead instantly. In an effort get the old man to the jeep to report the accident, Ben finds himself naked and walking through the desert, hunted by a madman. Any chance at food or water is denied by Madec. My favorite part of the book is the end. If you like thrill-seeking, adventurous, mystery books, then I would recommend this book to you.
I read this book as a young boy and have often thought back to it. I just came across the title tonight on whatsthatbook.com and figured I'd better post it to my GR account.I remember that this book was pretty riveting; that it kept me glued to the pages and caused me to keep questioning how it would end up until the final pages. I also remember being disturbed by how wrong and horrible the antagonist seemed. It was a lot to take in as a young boy. Nevertheless, I found it pretty exciting!
Ha, ha, I loved Marilyn's review. I'm amazed at how much the kids in my classes love this book, too. I probably should have given it 2 or 2 1/2 stars. The action is intense at the first but the rest is pretty lame to me. Even the last line of the book, which is focused on character, is empty. Really? But if it will get young boys to read (and even includes a challenging vocabulary), I am all for it. I think they even chose it because I said I didn't like it as much. Whatever.
This book is about to men, Ben and Madec, who are going to hunt Bighorn Sheep, but an accident changes it all. Ben has to survive the desert with nothing to help him and a mad man hunting with a gun. My least favorite of this book was when Ben was trying to climb the butte to survive because it was slow and a bit gruesome. I personally found this book a bit slow a would not recommend it for people who like fast upbeat books.
