https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16303.The_Hollow
"Since she was a woman of disconcertingly rapid thought processes, Lady Angkatell, as was her invariable custom, commenced the conversation in her own mind, supplying Midge’s answers out of her own fertile imagination.
The conversation was in full swing when Lady Angkatell flung open Midge’s door.‘–And so, darling, you really must agree that the weekend is going to present difficulties!’ ‘Eh?
Not all of the characters are likable, some are down-right horrible, but what I really liked was that many of them are either transformed by the events of the book or undergo some serious soul searching.
There's the mistress who won't have you, the wife you don't want, the secretary who sees it all, the female patients you could care less about, and that one sad case you wish you could save...
it is time to get away, maybe go out to the country and enjoy some clean air by the poolside.
But the country has its own share of female trouble.
There's the eccentric old biddy with a cold marksman's eye, some mouse whose name you've forgotten, and worst of all, there's the former fiancée who won't understand that No Means No, Not Ever, Not Ever Again, Get Away From Me, okay maybe just a quickie.
But then what will become of your patients, your mistress...
She delves into the personal aspects of the characters lives, something she rarely does, even to the degree where the details became irrelevant to the mystery at hand.You might think this would be distracting, bad writing; instead, it was a refreshing change.
One would never accuse Christie of writing cardboard characters, but she usually doesn't delve too deeply into personal tidbits that aren't part of the tale.
The person who bit the big one didn't surprise me, as Christie didn't paint him as especially likeable some of the time.The culprit surprised me, even though I had no firm suspicions.
Jacques Barzun called this novel "a triumph of her [Christie's] art" and I enthusiastically second that judgment.
In-depth characterization is perilous in a detective story, where the main interest is the mystery.
But with Christie characterization is an integral part of the plot, thus the "art" Barzun refers to.
In The Hollow, for instance, a romance is superbly delineated and of great interest by itself.
It is also interwoven with the crime both in terms of motive and metaphorically.A detective story, being a genre work, can perhaps never be great art.
But The Hollow certainly gives something of the same satisfaction great art can give.
And how fabulously creepy is the quotation from Tennyson's Maude, which provides the title?I hate the dreadful hollow behind the little wood, Its lips in the field above are dabbled with blood-red heath, The red-ribb`d ledges drip with a silent horror of blood, And Echo there, whatever is ask`d her, answers "Death." I love Christie's literary allusions; I was inspired to re-read Maude after I finished The Hollow.
What mystery writer wouldn't find those lines inspiring?The Hollow is another British country-house novel, and yet it is more psychologically complex than almost any other Christie I can think of.
Still, I consider this novel a huge accomplishment that shows how complex Dame Agatha could be.
بوارو العبقري لا يصعُب عليه شيء
Personally, after reading many many many many of Christie's books, The Hollow is undoubtedly my favorite. The characters are so well developed and I love the way they all interact. My favorites of her books are always set in the big country house with enigmatic people, and of course the one and only Hercule Poirot. Pure enjoyment.
I chose The Hollow to be the first book of Agatha's that I read in its original language.
I've read all of Agatha's books but a few, all translated in Arabic, and I had a slight fear that I wouldn't like it in English.
But I liked it much better in English.I've seen the adaptation of The Hollow some years ago.
I liked it very much, and naturally when I read the book two days ago I had a very clear idea about the ending.But my previous knowledge didn't prepare me for the actual depth of the novel.
I read this in just one sitting, but in my mother language (Portuguese). I found the book's end interesting. It wasn't very exciting, however it was unlike the others Agatha Christie's books that I've read.
One of my friends gave me this book and told me all good things about it. I knew this already that like other Agatha's books I have read before, this book is also going to blow my mind. Though I planned the last part of the book to read only after exams and I promised myself not to touch it.But as it happens always, I had to break my promise to read it. Now that I know the murderer I can live in peace!
I don't think I'm gonna include this one into my still short list of great detective stories by Agatha Christie. The mystery wasn't quite intriguing, although her narrative did mislead me a bit (I should've trusted my gut more, Lol). But I think all the characters were great. By great, I mean, they were all unique and were told in a funny way sometimes. Gerda and Lucy were the ones with the most unique and funniest personality. The way they talk and think were hilarious. So, over all, I enjoyed this book.
Hercule Poirot's Christmasاین کتاب با عنوانهای: «قتل در تعطیلات» با برگردان مجتبی عبدالله نژاد، «جنایت در کریسمس» با برگردان مهوش عزیزی، و نیز با عنوان «جنایت در تعطیلات خانوادگی» نیز منتشر شده است. ا. شربیانی
Also visiting are John’s new mistress, a sculptor named Henrietta Savernake (who is also a cousin of Lucy’s), and his ex-fiancée, a beautiful but self-centered actress named Veronica Cray who had left her native England — and John — for Hollywood.
Nor is this the only love triangle at The Hollow: The unworldly Edward Angkatell, another of Lucy’s cousins, harbors a one-sided love of Henrietta.
In turn, a poor relation and fellow guest, Midge Hardcastle, secretly pines for Edward, fully aware of his unrequited love for Henrietta.When John ends up dead at The Hollow’s swimming pool, who could be surprised?
Hercule Poirot is appalled by the unrefined amusingness his leader shows by masterminding a "murder" scene to unfurl as he arrives.
At the point when Poirot understands the man with the gunfire wound is truly biting the dust, he surges over in the nick of time to hear the man heave a name: "Henrietta." Poirot first presumes the spouse of the wrongdoing, at that point the fancy woman, and each other relative and worker thus.
He at last understands that each intimation, as opposed to driving him toward a suspect, drives him far from one specific individual...
Apparently, Agatha Christie was of the view that ‘The Hollow’ goes wrong when Hercule Poirot appears.
I think it goes wrong when the murder happens.
It wouldn’t matter who the detective is, the book has already had its intriguing premise shattered.
Then the murder happens and it just becomes another Agatha Christie novel.
But it’s an Agatha Christie novel whose first half doesn’t match the second half and so the whole is a bit of a mess.
So, it’s an interesting premise, and ambitious idea, but because it’s an Agatha Christie novel – and Agatha Christie novels need to have things like dead bodies at the side of swimming pools – it ends up an intriguing misfire rather than anything more praiseworthy.
One thing I will say about it which I liked a lot because this is typical Christie:I read this book in very close proximity to watching the David Suchet BBC episode of Lord Edgware Dies.
This murder and solution is very Agatha Christie stereotypical and I think that if you are as colossal an Hercule Poirot fan as I am and you have read/seen Lord Edgware Dies, you will find the murder solution in this book very obvious!
I like this book for that reason because it allows us to get to know Hercule Poirot and his methods and we can understand the psychology of every character Christie writes even more which I love!
One of my favourite Poirot's for the delicious cast of characters, Lucy Angkatell in particular."'We are only, as she knows, moderately fond of caramel custard. There would be something very gross, just after the death of a frend, in eating one's favourite pudding. But caramel custard is so easy — slippery if you know what I mean — and then one leaves a little on one's plate.'"Perfect.
I remember trying to watch the ITV version of this book and being totally confused much of the time.
For whatever reason, the writers and director were unable to communicate the psychological/emotional dynamic of the characters in a way that made sense to the viewer--and there's a lot there!
No mention of the war just over, but that's what escapist fiction is for.We know that Christie wrote romance fiction under a pseudonym, and there is quite a lot of frustrated feeling in this novel, one way and another.
Perhaps Christie was playing out her own marital and emotional frustrations through the characters.
A rare plot where Poirot meets an adversary who is his equal. Poirot not only compliments but also take care not to hurt her sensibilities. And for a change we have a female fondly appreciate his fine mustache. For more than one third of the plot there is such a background setting for the eventual murder which makes it a drag. But the pace soon picks up with a dramatic end and justice. Interesting read.
ب مجسمه تازه ساخته اش نگاه میکرد و عمیقا معتقد بود چیزی مشکل دارد.
اگر الان اینکار را نمیکرد فردا جرئتش را نداشت , مثل اینکه ادم پوست و گوشت خودش را بدرد , دردناک بود .
او هرگز ب حرف های موذیانه و خاله زنکی مدل مجسمه ش گوش نمیکرد اما ذهنیت سطحی مدل ب ذهنش و سپس در کارش تاثیر گذاشته بود .
با خود گفت : یعنی مرگ هم , اینگونه ست ؟ چیزی ک فکر میکنیم شخصیت است در واقع نوعی شکل است ؟ بازتاب افکار بقیه ست ؟ چه کسی ![ آگاتا کریستی ]
http://njkinny.blogspot.in/2014/08/bo...A man lying by the pool is dying while a woman stands over him with a gun in her hand and several people stand shocked witnessing the scene but Hercule Poirot is not amused. He is annoyed with the scene which he believes to be set up for him. "I, Hercule Poirot, am not amused."But is the scene just a setup?"And suddenly, with a terrific shock, with that feeling as of blurring on a cinematograph screen before the picture comes to focus, Hercule Poirot reali
First published in 1946, The Hollow was later adapted for the stage by the author where she eliminated Poirot from the story.Agatha Christie weaves a yet another mind blowing mystery that looks simple and yet has so much depth in The Hollow.
Although, the author felt like she had ruined the story by introducing Poirot, I feel the story became more appealing because of him.
This was a bit different to other Poirot's but still enjoyable... Agatha Christie is a master story teller!! 4 Stars!
Lovely ! REVIEW SOON
(I really need to read her autobiography for myself.) She wrote and said a few colorful things about her most popular character, and not all of them are very nice.What I found most interesting about this particular Poirot novel is how completely superfluous he actually is.
We learn that it's also not beneath her to manipulate when there's a good cause.The cast of characters consult with Poirot, and Christie uses these conversations to delelop the plot.
He certainly does no harm, unless you happen to loathe him.Another favorite character, who appears with Poirot from time to time, is Ariandne Oliver.
Agatha Christie mysteries are some of my favourite comfort reading as they provide a good puzzle with larger than life characters who are usually aristocratic and affluent and live in beautiful English countryside settings.
He makes his appearance midway through this story, which starts with such well drawn and interesting descriptions of the main characters that they are easy to picture.Lady Angkatell, in particular, is an absolute gem.
Despite this we begin to realise that she artlessly manages to plant certain pictures in the minds of her listeners, including us.Lady Lucy would be a nightmare to live with, but she alone could make this book worthwhile, although there is also plenty of surprise and entanglement to enjoy.
This ranks as one of the best of Agatha Christie’s novels that I have read – not least because, try as I might, I could not fathom the mystery – when at all times it felt tantalisingly within my grasp.But there are other aspects that make this a strong book.
A small cast of characters; the closed setting of an English country house; and, amusingly, the lurking presence of Poirot (for in this novel, he does lurk rather than investigate).Moreover, the style is more Suspense than Mystery.
In this respect The Hollow is quite different to many Christies, when characters are often superficial, and slaves to the mystery.The puzzle itself is incredibly simple, and that is its beauty.
Hercule Poirot is invited to a country house by Lady Angkatell who is interested in the criminal mind.
As Poirot arrives he is faced with an elaborate tableau which features a dead body beside the swimming pool and a woman holding a gun.
Poirot feels at first that he has been set up and it is all an elaborate hoax but he soon realises that it is a real murder and naturally enough his curiosity is aroused and he must investigate.
There are plenty if suspects and everyone involved seems determined to lead him in the wrong direction.I found the characters in this book very well drawn.
I've read this a few times already, but it never ceases to fascinate me.
What got me this time was the pure malevolence of Lucy.
So sweet.
Such a good hostess.
I have to take back the bit about a good hostess since she was considering killing one of her guests so things wouldn't be so difficult for her cousin.)To me, she is one of the most frightening characters ever created.
Forget about Hannibal....Lucy has him beat by a country mile.
And to think that Christie created her in the mid-40s, long before this type of character became popular.
Fascinating!
Mostly good. Sort of a waste using Poirot in this, just like Miss Marple in Five Little Pigs. The whole Henrietta-tortured-artist business was quite trying, though I did like Midge's irritation with her rich relatives giving her life advice all the time. Henrietta's ultimate worship of John "as himself" was super-lame--he was a selfish jerkbag and didn't appreciate (or therefore deserve) any of the nice things he had.The anti-Semitism with Midge's boss--"a Jewess from Whitechapel"--was a pleasant return to Aggie's nasty form. It never really feels like a proper Christie novel without some minority being slagged off.
me envolvi bastante nesta investigação, e consegui desvendar o caso! haha achei interessante que esse livro se preocupou bastante com os personagens não só como envolvidos no crime mas mostrando também suas histórias. Apesar do livro ser legal, achei que algumas partes poderiam ter sido resumidas.
