https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156427.Psycho
Filming one of these flicks requires tens of millions of dollars for a platoon of pretty actors, gallons of fake blood, special effects and a marketing campaign.
I’ve often wished that I had a way to temporarily blank out my memory of certain stories so that I could read or see them for the first time all over again and be completely surprised.
Unfortunately, alcoholic blackouts are extremely unreliable at this so I just have to try and imagine what it would have been like to read this book before the story became a classic.
I still haven't seen any of the movie adaptations but I can only imagine how fast paced they must be.I will say, I binge watched Bates Motel not too long ago and that's the main reason I picked this up, but I loved how different this was (in a way).
Bates Motel took a little nugget from this book and turned it into a much more broad-scope world and story (which was awesome) and this story is just a tiny piece.
I loved them both for different reasons though so it worked out for me!Anyway, this was awesome and spooky and just what I was in the mood for!
She meets Norman Bates, who harbors secrets even more interesting than stolen money...Everyone knows the basic beats of Psycho due to the iconic Alfred Hitchcock film.
And some woman gets killed and her boyfriend and sister try to figure out what the hell happened.
Since stuff gets lost in translation from book to movie, a lot of it was still surprising.
The book and the movie are definitely different animals.Psycho probably didn't have quite as much of an impact on me that it should have but that's because it's been dissected and imitated to death in the decades since it was written.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/4.5 Stars That’s what I tell my boys all the time. I hope they turn out just as friendly and loyal to their momma as Norman did.Is there anyone even on the planet who hasn’t at least heard of Psycho before? What can I say that you don’t already know? Well, I can confirm that this book is short at roughly 200 pages. Due to its brevity, I can also say not a paragraph is wasted on filler. Every scene that occurs does so for a reason. What
That’s what I tell my boys all the time.
If I hadn’t already been privy to the fact this was an oldie by a goodie, I would have never guess this story to be 50+ years old.
The subject matter as well as use of graphic language is not something I’m accustomed to when reading books that are a bit long in the tooth.
Even if it hadn’t been milk.”
As my friend Ed called out in his review, the book version Norman Bates was a fella who was a bit festively plump – proving that the casting of this guy .
We all go a little crazy sometimes.My generation and everyone since has grown up with the concept of Psycho, stemming from Sir Alfred Hitchcock’s 1960 thriller, but all this began with Robert Bloch’s 1959 novel.Reading this after having seen the film and grown up with the story, I dealt with a fair amount of theatrical irony.
This is also a seminal work for the horror genre, both in literature and in film, and some of the techniques Bloch used to such great effect more than 50 years ago are still tried and true today.Turns out the apple did not fall far from the tree.
So it is that Psycho really IS very much like The Exorcist.
Both may vie for the Scariest Film title, but apart from that: the books are stupendous.
& if you like the movies, you are making yourself a disservice by not reading the literary progenitors.
Psycho may be perfect.
Strange how little Norman Bates gets the Oscar in the book--you actually miss him in the parts where he is not a figure.
And his obsessions/psychosis/murderin' are the fault of the town, of his circumstances.
And, although it IS dated (yet still retains all the Southern Gothic elements), we can all agree: mental illness is fucking terrifying.
First published in 1959, there is no doubt about it, PSYCHO is an absolutely great horror classic.If by some freak of nature you happen to be in the dark regarding Robert Bloch's Psycho I will warn you not to go in the shower at the Bates Motel, and be green with envy that you can read the novel with no prior knowledge of the intriguing plot.If you are familiar with Alfred Hitchcock's movie version (released in 1960) then you will notice two obvious differences when reading the book, the first one (no biggie) is Norman's rather large size, and the shocker, well, the shower scene is actually a bit more grotesque (view spoiler)[resulting in a bloody severed head.
2.5 "sensationalistic, dated, a tad ridiculous, entertaining" stars !!Ok...yes...I was mildly entert
Very creepy. I have never seen the movie but when I saw the book was available for free I had to read it. Bloch really included a lot of small hints to keep the reader engaged, and even though I knew what the big reveal at the end would be he still kept it suspenseful and kept me on my toes.
Solo puedo decir que después de leer este libro estoy completamente obsesionada con todo lo que teng
Sure, that includes a string of other Oscar winners like Shawshank Redemption and Forest Gump; I'm just a weirdo.
It's not until the very end of the novel that we finally learn everything there is to know about Norman, his complex relationship with his deceased mother, and his questionable choice of reading material.For a novel written in 1959, this must have been pretty out there, but it was based on murderer Ed Gein, who was arrested in 1957.
He was even in the process of creating a woman's skin suit to resemble his mother so that he could literally "crawl into her skin." That is some pretty twisted stuff.
First, it wasn't a scary as I thought it would be (which is a very good thing for me, if you're wondering) and secondly, I had foreseen everything that was going to happen at page 10 (which, to be honest, is not as good).
This is, however, not the book's fault, as I see it: I believe this is the case of a classic that has become so classic we start to think of it as trite, which in origin it mustn't have been at all.
It saddens me, obviously, but this phenomenon often occurs with works so great, and I can't say it caught me entirely unawares.
Horror is my "go to" genre, my bread and butter.
Although more than 50 years have passed since the movie was made, Psycho remains at the top of the tree on my list of best horror flicks.
It's dated, certainly.
Filmed in black and white, complete with melodramatic music and exaggerated close-ups, but it works beautifully by leaving something to the imagination.
The book, written in 1959, stands the proverbial test of time, as well.
What a trip it would have been to have read the book before seeing the movie.
But even with that ship having sailed decades ago, reading the novel was pure pleasure.
A gripping story!If you've seen the movie this is better, you get that missing insight of being in Norman's mind. The story is a page-turner. Bloch is a good writer and has plotted the story well no sentence is wasted or boring. After reading Darkly Dreaming Dexter I thought I would try and get into rambling mind of a different kind of killer. Bates is obsessed with his mother wants to be like her And wants her to be part of him.Some factsThe novel "Psycho", written by Robert Bloch, was actuall
Only read below if you know the story.(view spoiler)[In the end alot of detail is left out in the movie that touches on the state of mind of Bates.
In the end out of guilt he tried to revive his mother from dead having conversation with her skeleton and pretending she was alive until in his split personality she literally became part of him.
He was reading into satanism and metaphysics which is probably where he got the idea that he could bring back his mother from the dead and decided to unearth her body from her grave  (hide spoiler)]
Absolutely one of my favourite classic horror stories. I loved Norman Bates in the tv show Bates Motel and I love him in this book!!(I will not be posting a full review on my blog. I don't have a lot to say about it)
(If you don't know these rules, you need to watch Scream.)Psycho the film actually opens in the bedroom, where our heroine is in her bra having just had sex with a man to whom she's not married.Norman Bates never sees any of this, by the way.
But the viewer knows what all she's done.In the book - and this isn't important in the book, so I don't think it's a spoiler - our heroine has NOT slept with her boyfriend.
Wait for that to sink in.The whole kill-women-who-enjoy-their-sexuality thing is NOT in this book.Norman is still operating under his set of rules, but the VIEWER'S opinion of the girl doesn't matter.
I've seen the movie probably 40x I'm a Hitchcock fanatic but I had never read the book upon which the movie was based.
I had watched a documentary about the man who inspired it Ed Gein, btw he was really psycho.
I mean Mr. Gein inspired both Psycho and Buffalo Bill from Silence of the Lambs.
The movie follows the book almost exactly.
I personally preferred the movie version & while reading I thought of Anthony Perkins the entire time.
Who would I recommend Psycho to Hitchcock fans obviously & readers who like dark & twisted stories.
Other than Norman being a Tubby Trooper in the book instead of the Starved Stanchion he is in the movie and television series, I found no glaring differences between the Hitchcock film and the book.
I can't even say that the book is better than the movie.
I have not seen the later movies, nor have I read the follow-up novels Bloch published (Psycho 2 and Psycho House).
This one comes in at 5:22 hours, so it's a little less than 3 hours if you bump up the speed.
Recommended whether you've seen the movie or not.Final Judgment: A perfect argument for poor hygiene.
I've been meaning to get around to reading this defining work of horror for quite some time.
In fact, SK recommended it to me within Danse Macabre, and I just knew that someday, somehow, I'd come back around to it.Of course, this book was already old when I read that SK book back in '89 and now I feel kinda foolish for putting off this classic so damn long.What's my excuse?
I thought the story would be kinda...
old.
Without tension.I really shouldn't listen to myself.This was a pretty damn tight thriller with very well drawn characters and all the proper reveals to love and enjoy.
:)Classic.
Nota: 4,5Antes de ler o livro, eu nunca tinha assistido ao filme e pra falar a verdade nem sabia do que se tratava.
Conhecia a famosa "cena do chuveiro" e só.Por conta disso, esse livro me surpreendeu bastante.
O clima de suspense dura por todas as páginas, e a leitura flui muito rápido porque você quer saber logo o que que tá acontecendo de verdade!O que achei mais interessante foi essa coisa do mistério não ser "quem matou fulano?".
Isso a gente já fica sabendo logo no começo e daí pra frente o livro começa a desvendar a mente insana por trás desse assassinato!Leitura muito, muito boa!
What a great classic to read leading up to Halloween.
And what better costume could you come up with than that of, my man, Norman Bates.
I think the book is very close to the movie version.
Obviously you get a greater visual of the shower scene in the movie, but the book really put me more in the head of Norman and I could see the psycho in him much deeper than is revealed in the movie.
Psycho is well written, short, and gives a perfect excuse to avoid seedy hotels along deserted highways.
Book bum club read "horrorween"I’m one of the few who has never seen the movie. I’m so glad that was the case. I loved this book! Straight out of the real serial killer zone, but I forget which one, Norman is a real creeper.
I was hoping that the narrative and the dialogues would scare me just like the time that I finally read Thomas Harris' The Silence of the Lambs (4 stars).
Also, the movie was 100% faithful to the book, so reading the book really did not give me anything new.When I was still single and a young man, I used to like this kind of scary stories.
Also, during that time that I still liked this kind of stories, I saw a lot of movies that were Psycho copy cats.
It is still nice to know that the now-classic movie and many of its copycats came from this classic crime book.
4.5 I really enjoy the read. Something about the writing is so very…well, psycho. I’m sure, even if you know the big plot twist –who doesn’t- the book is addictive and completely interesting. It has a great inside-killer POV and a perfect pace, the last chapter is pure psychological gold. Special for psycho-thrillers fans and I would suggest reading the novel if you like the movie; youll definitely pay more attention to certain details. At the end Psycho is a great thriller book, it might have b
De todas formas el libro me sorprendió mucho, tiene unos puntos de vista muy intensos e interesantes, sobretodo el de Norman Bates, loco entre los locos!Si entran al libro creyendo ver más profundidad de la que se ve en la película, o detalles extras, se van a llevar una desilusión, la adaptación es increíblemente fiel (y eso que no he visto la película entera, solo pedazos o lo que me han contado) y creo que cualquier fan del genero estará encantado de leer Psicosis, definitivamente un must para nosotros los thriller-lovers(?), no solo por ser la obra que origino la película sino porque la mente de Norman es un monumento a la psicología retorcida de personajes.
Psycho is one of my all time favourite movies, so I was curious too see how close the movie which was adapted only a year after the book was release is.After impulsively stealing $40,000 from her work, Mary finds a motel to rest for the evening.Owned by bachelor Norman Bates and he’s mother, the motel seemed pleasant enough...It’s a little more graphic than the movie and Anthony Perkins is a nicer looking version of Norman, but everything else is reassuringly similar.I’m more likely to rewatch the movie, but I had an absolute blast reading this.
I think the book and movie are probably equally as good, but the movie really went on to greater acclaim due to the direction of Hitchcock.
There aren't many that can fit into both groups, so I always thought this made him unique.I won't go any deeper into the storyline since I think we either all know it by now, but I would recommend this book to any fan of horror or suspense.
It's not a lengthy book and can be read in one or two sittings, so if this is one you've had on your reading list, I say go ahead and read it, you won't be disappointed!
Bloch's original novel is a quick read, despite having a not so fast-paced plot, and really allows you to get into the head of not only Mary Crane, but of Norman Bates as well.
At times I did catch myself wondering if I would have been able to work out certain plot elements from the story alone, with no prior knowledge, but honestly I think Bloch would have kept me hanging.
I would really recommend this to people who did like the Hitchcock film, but also to anyone who is interested in the plot and wants a quick thriller/horror read for the month of October (or at any time of the year!).
Excellent. Loved it!
Hitchcock's adaptation of this book is a horror classic, and is one that is so iconic that it's part of common knowledge, regardless of whether the movie has actually been seen by the person holding an imaginary knife and screeching "Ree!
Aside from the matter of perspective regarding the investigation, which keeps the reader (who already knows what happened to Mary) on their toes out of sheer angst at how wrong they are doing it, it was pretty standard fare.
True, Lila's frantic nagging is nigh constant, but I never really FELT her concern about her sister's well-being...
Even though I've seen the Hitchcock movie, I still really enjoyed the novel (though I wished it was a bit longer). I will say that the characters are definitely more likable in the movie, but the book makes up for that by exploring the relationship between Norman Bates and his mother much more. The novel also feel a bit more sinister, and being inside Norman's head can be quite disturbing. Overall, Psycho is a quick, engaging, and thrilling read. I definitely recommend checking it out, whether
Even though I've seen the Hitchcock movie, I still really enjoyed the novel (though I wished it was a bit longer). I will say that the characters are definitely more likable in the movie, but the book makes up for that by exploring the relationship between Norman Bates and his mother much more. The novel also feel a bit more sinister, and being inside Norman's head can be quite disturbing. Overall, Psycho is a quick, engaging, and thrilling read. I definitely recommend checking it out, whether you've seen the movie or not.
