https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/159061.Go_Away_Big_Green_Monster_
Love the idea of this book and the pattern it follows :)
Editado* 2018Este año vuelvo a tener un primero en el colegio y les conté de nuevo este cuento, la verdad es que me encanta, ellos piensan que les va a dar mucho miedo y al final les divierte mucho, claro que yo exagero mucho el storytelling y les hago participar de la historia porque el libro en sí solo enseña las partes de la cara y los colores.
Originally published in 1992, and then republished in this revised edition in 2005, author/illustrator Ed Emberley's Go Away, Big Green Monster is a classic reassurance tale for young toddlers.
Midway through the book, the narrator declares that the big green monster doesn't scare him, and slowly he is disassembled again...With his simple "build up and then take down" narrative, Emberley captures the fear that monsters (and the idea of monsters) can evoke in young children, while empowering those same children to conquer their fear, by giving them the power (at least in the book) to banish said monsters.
Wonderfully written with interactive illustrations for 1-2 year olds; older children may find it too childish.
by Ed Emberley is a book of cut out pages that page by page reveal a monster and then make it disappear.
The simple cuts and the bold colors appeal to both young children and older artists and because of this, is a delight to read to groups of children or individually.
I have used Go Away, Big Green Monster!
I have used Go Away, Big Green Monster!
There are always requests to Read it again!For ideas and activities to accompany Go Away, Big Green Monster!
check out my Go Away Big Green Monster Unit Study.
If I had to compile a list of great read aloud books, 'Go Away, Big Green Monster!' would easily make the cut. Fun, interactive and engaging, this book is a must read with any young child. As a kindergarten teacher, it was always a go-to and the preschool students I read to frequently request this read every time I see them. Quick tip: don't be afraid to let the kids scream and shout, it only makes the book more fun!!
Read it again! That was a very short book, so we can read it again. Read it again.
Teach- to -Self Connection and Text- to -TeachingI enjoyed reading this book.
This book reminds me of my children being afraid to go , or even wake up from having a bad dream .
I could also read this book in my classroom because there are several students that has confirmed that they are afraid of monsters.
I would come up with strategies to help the students conquer their fear of monsters.
I would use construction paper cut into different shapes for the children to create their own monster.
I would also tie the lesson to the book Where The Wild Things Are?
Fun, interactive idea for a children's book so our little ones can chase away the big scary monsters!
This is an adorable but scary book.
The book has cut outs that create details of a monsters face that the child sees.
The pages are black and each page adds a specific colorful detail like yellow eyes, bluish-green nose, red mouth, white teeth and green face, squiggly ears, purple hair.
The book tells children not to be afraid of monsters and to use their words to communicate.
In the book the child tells the monster "you don't scare me," and "Go away"and "Don't come back."I think children will enjoy the surprise element of whats next in the book.
I also think they may be scared to read this book by themselves.
Very cute interactive book! Each page has dye cuts that show another part of the monster. Kids watch the monster grow and then tells the monster to go away and not to come back until they say so.
Storytimes about colors, Halloween, monsters, conquering our fears.
Go away big green monster is a children picture book that delivers a good massage for little kids to chase away their nighttime fears.
The book is die-cut book where the kids could turn the pages to watch how the big green monster grows.
After that, the remaining pages of the story is about the scary features of the monster starting to disappear to show the kids that the monster is not big enough to scare them.
I would like to give the story 5 stars, because the idea of designing the book is awesome and it’s consistent with what the author wants to deliver.
One of my favorite books for story time. I use it every year for my Monster program. 1/08Used this for my Halloween Story Time. I need to see if we can purchase another copy the one I got was a bit beat up. 10/31/12Requested and read this year in Story Time.
This one is a great retelling exercise, especially if it's adapted into a flannelboard. The 4 year olds basically aced the reverse order without much prompting. The younger ones loved shouting "go away!"
This may be the perfect children's book. It takes something they're afraid of—and extremely interested in—and gives them power over it. Plus it teaches colors, and it is repetitive enough for a beginning reader to pick up on it quickly. I wish I had this book when I was five.
One of my favorite books to read to my 2 year olds! This was a book you could keep reading over and over and still love! It helped me teach my class how to get rid of the scary monsters they'd see. It also assisted in getting some of my more non vocal kids talking. ^_^
This book would be great for a group storytime or bedtime story. This book teaches children colors as well as sequence. Very simple but young children will love this.
The book is to help not fear anything like monsters and it was crazy .I read this book with a cat and hes a lion now!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Virtue: courage
My 4 year old daughter has had me read this to her about a ga-zillion times. She absolutely loves it. And I've gotta say.... it's pretty cute ;)
Children love to read this interactive book.
Simple, but fun, picture book where each page makes something disappear and turn into something else.
This isn't quite as clever as Tickle Monster, but the big bright visuals and the short text make this an excellent read-aloud (an Iris favorite AND great for storytimes).
Just perfection as an interactive story time read aloud that adhere's to Molly Bang's concepts of picturebook art perfectly.
Lucas loved this (3 years).
Here's a book reminiscent of Eric Carle's The Very Hungry Caterpillar!
BEEN MY FAVORITE BOOK SINCE AGE 1
``Big Green Monster has two big yellow eyes.'' Each page adds a new adjective-laden element, including a ``long bluish-greenish nose'' and ``scraggy purple hair'' until the culmination of effects prompts a response of, ``YOU DON'T SCARE ME!
--Elizabeth Hanson, Chicago Public Library Copyright 1993 Cahners Business Information.•	Professional Recommendation/Review #2:•	Name not mentioned•	Publishers Weekly•	https://browse.nypl.org/iii/encore/re...•	Die-cut holes in the cover reveal the "two big yellow eyes" of the title hobgoblin in Go Away, Big Green Monster!
The sturdy laminated pages that follow also have die-cuts that show the monster's fleshy "long bluish-greenish nose," "a big red mouth with sharp white teeth" and more.
Professional Recommendation/Review #1:Kirkus (Kirkus Reviews, 1993) By turning these stiff, die-cut pages, even very young children can assemble a green monster with "two big yellow eyes...a long blue nose...[and] a big red mouth with sharp white teeth..." and then make it go away again, feature by feature.
Emberley, a Caldecott medalist whose delightful drawing books demonstrate a combination of rudimentary forms to create a world of images, uses simple shapes in bright colors to build a scowling, cartoonish face that seems to float against the solid black field--scary, but deliciously so.
