https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11961382-from-beyond
Lovecraft’s gothic tale of horror is told by an unnamed first-person narrator, a friend of Crawford Tillinghast.
And the narrator begins by telling us while paying a visit to his friend’s laboratory, Tillinghast bemoaned the constricting limitations of our meager five senses and went on to say how he was on the verge of a breakthrough.
You can read many stories about multiple facets of space, but you will not encounter any more gripping than this H.P. Lovecraft’s tale.
The story itself is a record of the visit the narrator to Tillinghast's home, and of the experiences he encountered there.Another thing I like about the story is its feeling of local color, for it is set in Lovecraft’s native Providence.
Tillinghast is a prominent Providence family name and his house is located on Benevolent Street, a fine old boulevard of ancient homes on Providence’s East Side.
Story's unnamed narrator (surprisingly reliable) is invited over by his then best friend and now mad scientist, Tillinghast who claims to have developed a means to percieve realities which otherwise are outside the scope of our sensory faculties.
Tillinghast's 'Resonator' is basically Lovecraft's Baumoff Explosive, maybe a tonned down version with limited influence.
The setting and style are familiar, though maybe a little less baroque than usual works in terms of detailing.
Story's upside down hidden reality could actually be stretched to all the portal stories this might have inspired, from The Colour out of Space to Event Horizon to Stranger Things.
Later, the same man seemed to get to his senses and asked the narrator to visit him again.From Beyond is an interesting, short story.
Science and philosophy should be left, according to the narrator, to the impersonal because 'they offer two equally tragic alternatives to the man of feeling and action: despair if he fail in his quest, and terrors unutterable and unimaginable if he succeed.' It seems that Crawford Tillinghast succeeded in his quest.
He built a machine that could show the world beyond ordinary human senses and decided that the narrator should see that world too.
“Disintegration is quite painless, I assure you—but I want you to see them. I almost saw them, but I knew how to stop. You are not curious? I always knew you were no scientist! Trembling, eh? Trembling with anxiety to see the ultimate things I have discovered? Why don’t you move, then? Tired? Well, don’t worry, my friend, for they are coming. . . . Look! Look, curse you, look! . . . It’s just over your left shoulder. . . .”It is incredibly astonishing how H.P. Lovecraft can create something as striking in just few pages.
I'm still trying to figure out what distinguishes an HPL story I like from one I don't like.
Sometimes I think it's just purely arbitrary, based on my mood, or how tired I am.
With a story like this, I think it's because it represents what a good short story can do when being sharp and to the point, delivering an idea with an economy of words, which is generally anathema to HPL.
I probably have a soft spot for this one because I like the movie, in all its B-grade sumptuous glory.
Prethodna rečenica je u biti više opis općenito Lovecraftova opusa na način što u ovoj konkretnoj priči ne nailazimo na afekt očuđenja putem sadržajnih odrednica u vidu primordijalne arhitekture.Lovecraft u ovoj priči iznosi teozofsko-antiscijenističko-okultno gledište u kojem dva lika spoznaju da postoji jako puno dimenzija u odnosu na ovaj oblik bivstvovanja, shvaćaju da je sve ono što gledaju samo djelić onoga što jest."Iznenada, ja osobno postadoh zaposjednut nekom vrstom proširenog vida.
Jedna osoba mi je vrlo slične scene ispričala kada je uzela takva sredstva.Uvijek sam skeptičan prema dosezanju drugih svjetova putem droga, više mislim da je meditacija i udaljavanje od konzumacija svih fizičkih stvari (iće i piće) način susreta s bogovima.
Loved the movie. Loved the story. And now I've found that one of my beloved childhood comics, Tintin, will be exploring the Wonderful World of Lovecraft. Oh, R'lyeh!
The beginning was so promising; the mad scientist with a great vision to see the alternative reality beyond the ordinary perception, then it leads to a cheap action-packed climax and fall flat to the end of nowhere.
Para-psychology has never been so fun before. Oh and out there too! Highly recommend this to fans of pulp horror. The movie version was even better.
A classic horror tale of technology going too far and revealing terrible things that were never meant to be seen by human eyes. Once you see them, they’ll haunt you until your mind snaps.
This book has just in few pages opened up some screws of my mind.
Un racconto breve di lovecraft ma davvero intenso. Ho visto prima il film per caso e mi aveva incuriosito, ma leggendo il libro ho capito tutto quello che gravita intorno a questa storia. Come sempre lovecraft stupisce ed in poche righe lascia ampio spazio all'immaginazione
" I have harnessed the shadows that stride from world to world to sow death and madness. . . . Space belongs to me, do you hear?"The temptation of greatness and power beyond any imaginable magnitude can doubtlessly lead to other incomprehensible worlds, such as what happened to Tillinghast, the mad scientist. A gothic, dark and beautiful story.
Again, listened to the audio and then read the written version.
This time was different than the other time ;) I wanted to reread this simply for the fact it was amazing.Beautifully creepy and cool.I loved the whole crazy doctor story.
This crazy doctor created an electronic device that stimulates a person to be able to see the planes of existence outside of reality.
Pretty much he created a way for someone to see a whole different dimension.Remember…he’s crazy and so…poor staff.
But yes, this was a great read.
Right mixture of story, plot, craziness, creepiness, and entertainment.
I honestly want to re-read it again...
“Those waves will open up to us many vistas unknown to man, and several unknown to anything we consider organic life.
We shall see that at which dogs howl in the dark, and that at which cats prick up their ears after midnight…” When I first watched From Beyond (1986) while browsing TV channels late at night, I was mesmerised and horrified.
The image of the flying veracious fish in the scientist’s attic, appearing from thin air by way of an electrical device, gave me chills at the time and has remained in a corner of my mind ever since.
Кроуфорд Тіллінґаст балансує на межі фізики і метафізики. Він на порозі значного відкриття, але його друг просить Тіллінґаста опам'ятатися. Розлючентй вчений виганяє свого друга зі свого дому, але через десять тижнів запрошує знову. Він хоче показати прилад, який йому вдалося сконструювати. Цей прилад допомагає розширити доволі обмежений діапазон людських відчуттів. Коли Тіллінґаст вмикає прилад, його друг спочатку чує непередавані звуки, поьім відчуває чужу присутність і нарешті сприймає свій, який існує разом з нашим, але ми його не здатні побачити.
La premisa de esta historia es muy interesante, nuestro amigo Crawford Tillinghast ha creado una máquina que nos permite ver mas allá de lo que nuestros limitados sentidos nos dejarían en situaciones normales, y claro, tratandose de Lovecraft eso significa seres extradimensionales y aberraciones inominables. Aunque promete mucho la historia al final no consigue ser realmente memorable, el desarrollo es flojo y el final es muy precipitado y poco emocionante.
A mad scientist's revenge. More of an actual plot than most of the stories so far. Plays with the overlapping worlds concept. Liked this one as well. (Moving 2015 review to separate work to make room under collection for review, September 2017.)
A good short story but would've have been more interesting as a longer novella. I am surprised that no one has mentioned how very close the narrators experiences are to the effects DMT seems to produce.
6/10
Enjoyable for what it is, though a bit overwrought. An unseen world visible through alternate senses, fascinating. A revenge story about a scientist upset at someone laughing at him, meh.
A chilling tale of a man that is made to see the ghastly beings from beyond that are among us. It was this tale that got me interested in Lovecraft. A really creepy story.
Racconto breve ma intenso. Un esperimento tecnologico andato troppo oltre....
A mad scientist probes other worlds by building a machine that "...will generate waves acting on unrecongnized sense-organs that exist in us as atrophied or rudimentary vestiges."
This is the first book by H.P. Lovecraft that I have actually managed to finish, and I am disappointed. It is obvious that he was a good writer, but I just couldn't get into it. A combination of all the hype surrounding the genre, my inability to suspend my disbelief at the uninspired use of 'science' to unravel the cosmic indifference of the universe, and my relative ignorance about Lovecraft's mythos filled me with fervent skepticism instead of the so-called existential dread I was supposed to experience. Oh well.
Interesting
Six pages long, this story was written in 1920, but not published until 1934.
Apparently, Lovecraft was studying philosophy in 1919 and 1920, and it shows in this work.
Tillinghast and the narrator talk to each other throughout the story, but never use each other's names.
If you don't like reading, even short stories, go watch this movie and remove the female doctor and her cop sidekick, everything having to do with sex, and everything that happens after the machine takes a bullet.
The story will boil down to about 15 minutes of the original written word.
This is one of those Lovecraft stories that feels like a sketch or an abstract of a longer, more-developed piece. It's an earlier story (1920), the style tentative and the tone melodramatic, but it's fun to see early iterations of some classic Lovecraftian flourishes: The altered acquaintance; the corrosive effect of arcane knowledge; a universe of horrors hidden behind a veil of merciful ignorance; the interaction of science and metaphysics. It's all classic Lovecraft stuff, it's just crammed into a story too undeveloped to carry it all.
I loved this one simply because it illustrates the central theme of all Lovecraftian horror, that which is alien and absurd to humans.
Despite the mere 9 pages this story got across a whole spectrum of weird and scary stuff and the insanity that results because of it.
The philosophy that is ilistrated is that of the candle and the darkness.
Typically the light from the candle is knowledge that keeps the dark, ignorance, at bay.
Lovecraft flips it around where old and eldritch knowledge springs mania and the light that keeps it at bay is ignorance.
Overall good story and I recommend it all
