https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/676224.Fuzzy_Sapiens
The book also suffered in the way it dramatically yet simplistically flipped Victor Grego's character.
He was the boss bad guy in the first novel, but fuzzies are just so cute that he can be won over and become good.
So now we need some new bad guys...
And thus good vs evil is once again starkly black-and-white.It's worth reading this book to bridge to the 3rd book, which deals with the events in this story and finally begins getting some humanity into the human characters, as well as letting the fuzzies have some dignity as sapient beings and not just "cute kids".
Disappointing.Not nearly as good as Little Fuzzy, but--once it finally got started--an enjoyable bit of historic science fiction. It's fun reading books written in the 1960s for the quaint social practices which the authors assume will remain centuries later, but in fact died in fifty years. And, of course, the changes in technology make much for humorous reading also.For the complete review (including spoilers) see: http://amatteroffancy.wordpress.com/2014/08/24/fuzzy-sapiens-by-h-beam-piper-three-stars/Still, a good read.
This book held a lot of promise, but I felt some of the major issues were somewhat glossed over and could have been dealt with better.Still interested enough to try to seek out the third in the trilogy, but not a story I'd re-read multiple times.
This book takes up pretty much immediately after its predecessor, Little Fuzzy, finishes and continues the story of the (now legally protected as) sapient species Fuzzy Fuzzy Holloway on the colony world Zarathustra.
It somehow felt quite colonial, in the British Empire sense, and not really like a frontier colony world at all, but it was charming, in its own way.Charming is a good word to describe the book as a whole, really.
There's little sense of threat and the whole thing just feels like an extended footnote to the previous volume.
I still found it enjoyable though and one thing that I did like was how it rehabilitated the villains from the previous book.
Fuzzy Sapiens takes up a week after the book Little Fuzzy finishes. Though the Fuzzies have been deemed Sapient beings I found through this entire book they were treated more like pets (who can speak) and the whole adoption process felt to me just like going to the local pound to adopt a stray. Having a Fuzzy enter their lives seemed to instantly change the villains from the previous book into good guys. All in all an ok read, if you enjoyed the first book, but only just!
The second of these little classics.Life after the consequences of the crime (in Little Fuzzy). Discovering what it is that makes certain human foods attractive to Fuzzies, and discovering why there are so few children among them, and what is needed to keep the race alive. With some fun philosophical observations about dependence.
H. Beam Piper is a treasure. This isn't quite as exciting as "Little Fuzzy," but Piper keeps the tone, humor, and regret coming in a manner that is both uplifting and inspiring. If you love Dobby the elf, "The Wind in the Willows," or the passionate drive for social change found in the late Terry Pratchett's work, Piper's Fuzzy books might be just the gem you've been searching for.
3.5 stars. Not as amazing as the first book, but still pretty darn good. And fun too. Some great comedic moments.
Well this book hit it's sophomore slump. Lucky it was quite short. I hear the next one is a lot better so looking forward to reading that.
I really liked 'Little Fuzzy," the first book in a trilogy about the fuzzies, but I didn't enjoy "Fuzzy Sapiens" as much.
The question of the fuzzies' sapience is brought to a court of law and a ruling is issued.
"Fuzzy Sapiens" is largely taken up with how the human population deals with that ruling.
The book is very readable, but it lacks the drama of "Little Fuzzy." Also, I think the fuzzies could have been portrayed as more than just adorable and somewhat comical moppets.
Nonetheless, the book was a pleasant read.
This was a good follow-up to Little Fuzzy.
Neither book I think is a particularly hard-hitting intellectual overview of the "fuzzy" boundaries around first contact and the paternalistic relationship between colonists and primitives, but they both provide an interesting story.One thing I particularly liked about this book is that the villain from the previous book became one of the primary protagonists in this books.
Rather than an ongoing blood feud, it was clear that these were all a bunch of professional humans who make mistakes and when the dust is settled they know how to move on.
Given that these books are otherwise somewhat shallow, it added a nice touch of complexity to the characters.
This is the sequel to “Little Fuzzy”. It begins right after the previous book ends. It’s better written than the first book, but the story is not quite as interesting. It’s still a quick read, just not nearly as fun or thought-provoking. Since it is a sequel, the plot summary has some spoilers, so be aware if you continue reading this review.Come visit my blog for the full review…https://itstartedwiththehugos.blogspo...
Pretty good, though not as good as the first one from Piper. I felt like this had way too much from the people and not enough from the Fuzzies themselves. Still one to go, plus the book that kinda sorta started all this Fuzzy nonsense for me. More on that later I'm sure...
I read most of Beam Piper's books many years ago. Always fun reads.
Not as interesting as the first book, but a good read.
The bulk of this novel is written as if it were intended for young readers - the Fuzzies are simply too cute to be taken seriously, even by the characters in the story, yet much of the subject matter in this story such as murder by stomping, suicide and an extended court scene intended to determine whether the Fuzzies are to be determined to be sapient or not, is hardly the stuff of children stories.**The second book, “The Other Human Race” is pretty much the same minus the initial world-building, the trial and so on, therefore there is less going on.
The first volume, Little Fuzzy, was out of print for decades, and eventually fell into the public domain, but accessing it there was nearly impossible for most mortals until fairly recently.
This utterly charming duo was first published in 1962 (Little Fuzzy) and 1964 (The Other Human Race was the original title.) Do not let the charm obscure the deeper meaning to be mined from this when viewed as an allegory.
The series was so beloved --and seemingly so incomplete--that Ace commissioned a writer named William Tuning to pen a sequel, Fuzzy Bones.
Tuning's recreation of the original atmosphere of the stories, and the tale itself was superb, particularly in the absence of a third Piper-penned novel.
Some issues:+ Gene Roddenberry had his way with me in my youth, and my heart and mind cry out against the way every character in these books stomps brutally across the Prime Directive (which of course didn't exist at the time)+ There's no way to read this series now without overlaying it with a 21st century perspective.
And from a 21st century perspective, there's a distinctly unpleasant vibe to the way this indigenous race of adult beings is generally treated like a race of talking purse dogs by human characters we're supposed to view as good guys.
I am a little bothered by the idea that the people in the story have found one of only two known alien sentient species and the first thing they think of doing is making pets out of them.
The Fuzzies seem to want nothing more than to be pets.
I keep waiting for the story to evolve away from obviously colonial attitudes towards the "Fuzzies".
It seems the whole Fuzzy thing was kind of a phenomenon back in the day.
I doubt anyone would want to lose the smarmy cuteness of the stories.
This is the second of the Fuzzy series.
This is the second of the Fuzzy books that feature among the most memorable aliens in science fiction.
The first book dealt with some sophisticated concepts.
So when the Fuzzies first show up, it soon becomes a very serious matter indeed whether they're just cute animals--or people.
The second novel develops some issues not resolved in the first one, and is still entertaining, although perhaps not as fresh in conception.
I did like how in the second novel things were less black and white.
But Piper's a good storyteller nevertheless and presents appealing characters--human and non-human alike.
It's an good read.
This was the 2nd book in the Fuzzy Sapiens series, but I read Fuzzy Sapiens as the 2 book series, so my review tends to encompass both books as a single book.
I love this series, and have since I first read it in Jr. High or High School.
Little Fuzzy is a native of the planet Zarathustra.
There is alot of politics involved as well as crime, court, and assorted other dramas, but that's the heart of the story.Fuzzies want to be loved and cared for - And in return they want to love and care for their Big Ones.
To me, the heart of the story is enough
The second book in the Fuzzy trilogy (you can read my review of book one - Little Fuzzy) continues the dilemma of how humans and other sentient beings get along.
The question is - now that Fuzzies have been declared to be intelligent beings - how do Fuzzies and humans live in harmony?I still feel that the viewpoints in this book are a bit outdated and definitely not politically correct.
There is not a lot of backstory given to explain how the story got to where it is.That being said, and taking the book for the time it was written, I very much enjoyed this read.
This was my second time reading Fuzzy Sapiens.
He was developed into a much richer and more interesting character.
In fact, most of the characters showed greater depth and understanding here.I also enjoyed Piper's focus on government building in the sequel.
With the company that had run the planet previously no longer having power, a vacuum is left and a government is struggling to find its place.
Watching the machinations and intrigues develop as the first steps toward democracy play out was very interesting and entertaining.All in all, a fun read.
The sequel to LITTLE FUZZY continues the story almost immediately after the close of the first novel.
There are some interesting twists along the way, with some characters that were considered "bad guys" in the first book turning out to actually be much more complicated than they seemed.
In some respects, it almost functions as a detective story in that respect, as the majority of the novel is spent searching for some missing Fuzzies.Well worthwhile, but not as strong as LITTLE FUZZY.
This is the second book in H.
Beam Piper Fuzzy series.
It follows on from the first book, Little Fuzzy.
The story is about how the Fuzzy integrate into society and their relationship with humans.
Yes they seem to be doing this of their own accord but I can't help thinking of the European explorers of the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries and what they did to the local populations.If you can put that to one side its an enjoyable little read that.
Its quite light read which doesn't tax the brain too much and is fairly easy to follow.
For those that complain about the paternalistic attitude of the humans towards the Fuzzies, well it seems to me that is exactly what the author is trying to describe.
Notice their attitude to potentially causing another species to become extinct in an attempt to protect the Fuzzies.
For the most part the humans are well intentioned and this is exactly what the author is trying to portray.
Acting like parents to an entire species rather then giving them the tools needed to adjust and thrive in this new environment and situation thrust upon them by humans.
I don't think I'd rate this more than a three if I hadn't enjoyed the original so much. Its a good quick read and its fun watching the corporation that tried to disprove the Fuzzies sapience move from opposition to support of the local intelligent aliens. I guess the story overall feels less focused as things are happening a bit too fast for the folks trying to run government and social services during the time of cultural change on the planet. So... if you enjoy the first Fuzzy book give this a read... if not... skip it.
A weaker follow up to the original book, but still an interesting read. I particularly like that the first third of the book is dedicated to making one of the first story's antagonists a more likable guy - necessary for the continuation of the narrative. While I didn't like the story as much, I could easily get lost in Piper's world. We see the consequences of choices made in the first story and continually evolving relationships between the human characters making the Fuzzy saga feel like a living, breathing world.
Fuzzy #2I am reading this story for the 7th time as I have found more books of fuzzys .this is a great story about a newly found people on a planet.
It reads very well even if the technology of this world is behind with what we have today,plus being written in 1961, everyone smokes and still have cocktail hour a custom that went away in the 70s, the story is very well written and keeps you wanting to get to the next part.
(I am going to read Fuzzy Bones next it is not by H Beam Piper but continues the story very well
The second volume in Piper’s lovely Fuzzy series, Fuzzy Sapiens gets the Fuzzies into all sorts of new mischief at the hands of bad humans. A little longer and perhaps more completely developed than Little Fuzzy, Fuzzy Sapiens was the last Fuzzy book published during Piper’s lifetime. I love Piper’s writing; it’s perfectly suited to this kind of story. And it seems so clever the way he explores humanity in what appears on the surface to be some fun sci-fi books. I loved these books as a kid and I still love ‘em. This series is awesome.
