https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/519300.Patricia
Obvious to the reader it may become quite early, but the problem is that it's not so obvious to Amelia Prentiss, the mother of our main character, Miss Patricia Prentiss.
She encourages--she FORCES--Patricia to spend time with the son of her best friend, even when she insists that she doesn't want to and tries to explain why not.
Mrs. Prentiss believes that no son of a friend of HERS could ever be objectionable.
(Update: I've finished BEAUTY now and hopefully I'll have a review soon.)But what of Patricia and Messrs.
Worth and Bellingham?
Can she be forced to marry the man of her MOTHER's choice?
I think it's clear by these reviews that these books are a not-so-guilty pleasure of mine.
But this one totally makes me want to have just a moment of being in high school back then, to play the stupid games they played at her party and have school picnics.
The little glimpses into her public high school life contrasted with her boring socialite life are marvelous.
And the little trip to her eventual love interest's parents' home, with the delicious meal (Oh Grace, you know how to get me--any domestic scene with delicious homemade food) and the too-sweet-to-be-real family from the Old Country...ahhhhhhhhhh.
As a young girl, it gave me a healthy impression of what it was to learn how to be a good person.
It values hard work, genuine friendship, humility, and deals with what to do when the person you want to be and the person your friends/family want you to be are not the same person.
She learns to think and how to evaluate the value of things and ideas.
I'd give it to any of my children without a second thought but it's not really for children so much as it is for anyone who moves past childhood and into owning their own identity and then learns to balance that with marriage/romance/love.Also I am totally outing myself as a GLH fan.
The rest of it goes like this: (view spoiler)[Patricia hits a growing-up milestone, there's another family argument, Mom pushes a bratty naughty rich boy at her.
(hide spoiler)]So will Patricia be forced to marry the rich brat, or will she end up with the boy from school she's only talked to a handful of times?
If you've read any of Grace Livingston Hill's other books, you already know the answer.I can't say I loved this book; I like a bit more plot beyond just a boy and girl getting together.
Patricia goes to high school.
Patricia gets married.
BEAUTIFUL STORY!!
This is one of my favorites by this auther. She can frequently get carried away with words or preaching but this one had just a beautiful story.
My favorite Grace Livingston Hill novel :) I thought it was incredibly romantic when I was a teenager.
Boot straps and all that.I also think it's funny because in British novels of the same period, American characters are always written as starting their sentences with "Why".
Then I noticed that all of GLH's heroines start their sentences with "Why." "Why, of course I'm a Christian." "Why, I'd be happy to come over and take care of your invalid mother." Etc. I now have this strange image of PG Wodehouse reading GLH to find out how Americans talk.The really crazy thing is that I picked this one up in a used bookstore because the cover caused this sudden flashback.
We start the story at the ending, with the arrival of a young man at a mansion, where he is out of place.
Then we wander back in time and find the sweet Patricia who I'm predisposed to not like because she doesn't seem worthy of the young man who came to call early in the book (John Worth...the NAMES in this one!)But I do wind up liking her, but I keep waiting - waiting for her to fall into that worldly vision we saw earlier.
I know I tend to give five stars to these books, but I can't this time around - I really didn't like the flashback technique.
One of my favorite books! Grace Livingston Hill writes sweet stories of romance and an individual's journey to God and how Christ helps them overcome struggles. I usually read this once a year just for nostalgia. It is part of collection my grandmother owned and we both loved it. I even referenced in my own novel, Spring till September.
Love this book...As a very young teenager this was one of the first romance books I read, I was thrilled when I found out I could purchase it on my kindle...
This is my favorite of her books. It seems to have real depth to it, rather than the usual flighty romantic tale.
Grace Livingston Hill is my guilty pleasure...total escape-ism...
Bravo, Grace Livingston Hill! The story of Patricia Prentiss, and what an interesting story! My first experience with this author, and I look forward to reading more books by her!
this story is a ridiculous bit of fluff and I love every bit of it
My grandmother had almost all of Grace Livingstone Hill's novels on her bookshelf. I always brought my own books while visiting her, but one time I was there without anything to read so I decided to try this novel. I really enjoyed it, so much so that I read it several times. I have fond memories of this novel, the only GLH novel I've ever read.
