https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/219557.The_Pushcart_War
The prose is cute in the Pushcart War and the cartoon-like characters even cuter, but overall this is a plot-driven story about a war between truckers and pushcart peddlers, and exactly like that sounds, it's not very interesting...
especially to the children it's written for.Almost everything that makes Animal Farm a masterpiece is noticeably absent here.
It might be cute (at times), but it's almost never funny.
The characters might be a little batty, but they're not written well enough to pull of their roles without seeming out of place.
And worst of all, the war they fight in is mostly a bore.
One of my favorite books from childhood, it tells the story of a war in New York City in 1986 between the pushcarts and the trucks. It reads so realistically that I always thought it was true, and I always wanted to go down to Bleecker Street to take place in the annual reenactment.
A small, little-known book of a little over 200 pages, a book that can be read fairly easily in a single rainy afternoon, if one is so inclined."The Pushcart War" is the story of a "little" war on the streets of New York, a war that begins between the old-fashioned pushcart peddlers selling their wares at the sides of the street, and the oversized trucks which are bullying their way into more and more of the available space on the road.
Gloriously funny. A delightful, hilarious, sometimes silly story that has my heart. I already want to read it again.
A delightful book. As a kid, it's about little guys triumphing over big guys. As an adult, with a wink and a nod, you can actually see that it's unabashed, though relatively harmless, socialist propaganda. Read it anyway, and don't be a truck.
Hilarious, smart, scathing, charming. Reminds me of the best kinds of books I loved as a kid, but I would have missed so many of the layers as a kid. It was by no means too late to pick it up now. (Courtesy of a good friend of mine, who did love it as a kid.)
A fable, much like Animal Farm, that simplifies big issues to point out the absurdity and immaturity of adults' behavior. I loved both books as a child, and this, at least, I can now vouch for as still being appealing for grown-ups. At least, for grown-ups who aren't titans of industry or finance, grown-ups who don't get off on power. This is funny, dramatic, heartwarming, and wise. Absolutely highly recommended. I hear the audio is good, too.
This is an utterly charming, satirical look at capitalism, corruption, and city life - a book I love not only because of the nostalgia factor (I first read it in fifth grade) but because it is good. The plot and pacing are strong, the dialogue is tongue-in-cheek and hilarious, and the characterization is spot-on. I will forever be a proponent of the Large Object Theory of History. Along with, I think, every library and elementary school classroom, and hopefully every home. The Pushcart War is that good.
This is a hilarious, action-packed novel about how a group of small business owners (the pushcarts) take on their gigantic competitors (the trucks). It's a children's classic that adults will also love. So don't be a truck! Read this book. You'll have a great time.
To protect his colleagues, Frank claims responsibility for “killing” all 18,991 tires, claiming to be “a crackpot.” Though the rest of the pushcart vendors cannot attack truck tires without exposing Frank’s lie, children take over the war, enthusiastically killing truck tires their own pea shooters.
The Pushcart War generates slang: “The expression, ‘Don’t be a truck’ replaced.
Cumberly’s “”Forword” is followed by an “Introduction” by Jean Merrill (actual author), claiming to have rewritten for children Cumberly’s account of the Pushcart War. The novel includes footnotes that niggle about details, as well as references to archives and other resources that Cumberly and Merrill consulted (“The conversation, as recorded in the files of the New York City Police Department .
Once the reader accepts that this is an “old” book about a fictional war in the future (sort of like Orwell’s 1984), it is easy to follow the story.
The pen sketches that decorate the chapters add interest – I wish more novels for tweens featured illustration, the way the books of Roald Dahl always have.
One chapter concerns a small group of unnamed children who participate in the war, shooting pins at truck tires to sabotage them.
The Pushcart War could draw the same criticism for those who don’t grasp the point of the book.
Well, every male that saw me reading this book (okay, so just my husband and the guy at Coffee Tree...) kept on saying how it was their favorite book when they were in first grade.
I think that is a bit ambitios about the reading level; I would put it at grades 2-4, but I can see the attraction.
It's a "war" in NYC between the pushcarts and the truckers.
I always feel like I have a more difficult time recommending books for boys (being that I never was one!)...
Loved this book. I read it long ago, and I think I may like it even more now. Loved the syntax (like reading a book version of Guys and Dolls). I also enjoyed how the story was told, like an anthropology study. My favorite part was the epilogue.All my friends should read this. Rachel, I think you would like this.The power to the people feel is appealing. This is a good accompaniment to the revolutionary zeal of Les Miserables.
I was shocked to discover that one of my sister's all-time favorite books was one that I had never heard of! So I just sat myself down, ate it up, and was completely charmed. If there was any justice in the world, Cantaloupe Day would be a much bigger deal than Bloomsday.
This fabulous book is the story of the struggle of the pushcart vendors of New York City as they launch a war to retain their rights to exist among the ever-increasingly crowded and competitive streets of their city.
This book begins with a Foreword by “Professor Lyman Cumberly of N.Y.U, author of The Large Object Theory of History,” and an Introduction by the author, referencing the importance of examining this war from an historical perspective, and thanking the characters (presumed real here) for their assistance in compiling this account.
The escalating street battle between the pushcart peddlers and the truckers in New York. A David and Goliath story for kids more interested in the battles they see around them than the ones with giants. One of my favorites from my youth.
I would have loved this book as a child.
I loved this book as an adult.
Kids will get it from a bullying perspective; adults will get it from a David vs.
In this story, the mammoth trucks bully the pushcarts.
One step forward, two steps back, for both sides.
The mammoth trucks create a blockade so the pushcart peddlers can't get the materials for their secret weapon.
One step forward, two steps back.
One step forward, two steps back.
The whole situation is absurd and hilarious, and adults and kids will see so much of the same absurdity in our lives today.
Current bedtime read with Kristen.It had been so long since I read this that I thought it was a short picture book!
Silly me.UPDATE: This left me feeling much flatter than I thought it would.
I had such a strong recollection of enjoying this as a kid, and yet I'm sitting here now scratching my head, wondering whether I've changed so much, or whether there is an abridged version that was actually what I read as a child.
It just doesn't match the recollection.
Am I the only person who HATES it when an author feels compelled to write out each character's full name each time s/he is referenced?
Exceedingly clever and entertaining!
I can't believe I missed this one when I was a kid, and I can't wait until my own kids are old enough for it.
Things I liked:- Portrayal of government and big business colluding to disfavor small business- Immigrant and small business voices- 'Documentary-style' storytelling from multiple anglesThings I didn't like:- There were quite a few plot holes, of the type where people think they have only one option but are ignoring multiple other options that might have better or easier results- Came across as a bit anti-capitalist because of the behavior of the large business leaders
The pushcarts are tired of the trucks blocking traffic and blaming it on them. The big trucks are also purposely running into the pushcarts, so the pushcarts declare war on the trucks. Who is winning the war goes back and forth between the trucks and the pushcarts.- I enjoyed the book The Pushcart War. One thing I enjoyed was how the author built suspense by making the story go back and forth between the pushcarts and trucks. I also liked how the author really hooked me in. I think that overall The Pushcart War is a really good book.
May 2013 am rereading for first time on years. So far it is as wonderful as I recall.Having just heard of Jean Merrill's death I wanted to honor her memory by adding this book to my goodreads bookshelf. It was one of my absolute favorite books to teach for many many years. I did a play and movie of it. Unfortunately, the movie was video and I don't even know if I still have the tape, but it was incredibly fun to do. I need to revisit this one.p
This "fable of the future" was first published in 1964, and while I enjoyed reading it as a child, I find that, as an adult, I like it even better. I now recognize how much craft Jean Merrill put into her tale of underdog peddlers trying to keep from being pushed aside by huge trucks in New York City.
Drop what you are doing and read this book. I know it is targeted for teens/youth but as an adult (who may be a tad cynical) it was hilarious. Government, big business, little business, law enforcement, the newspapers, ... they are all here. I haven't laughed this much with a book since Politically Incorrect Bedtime Stories.
With the earnest silliness of James Thurber, this book explores the often ridiculous events that lead to war, the ideas of peaceful protest, political ties that compromise the public trust and the value of even the action of children in affecting change. It would be a good book for middle school/junior high to provide context to an exploration of the causes of WWI, or Vietnam or even Iraq.
As my friend Helen, the book-lover, lay in her death bed, she asked her mother to read her this book. After she passed, I decided to read it to my son (who is 10). It is truly brilliant. Sharp and funny commentary on politics and power, in an easy-to-access package.
Another of my all-time favorite childhood classics. Had a great time reading it aloud to my seven- and nine-year-olds, and they both loved it, too.
A childhood favorite of mine (and of every other child who ever read it). So much love for the smarts therein demonstrated!
Possibly the most political book I read as a kid. It deals with grass-roots organizing, guerilla warfare, corruption, capitalism, the media--all as part of a rollicking adventure story.
I loved this book as a child!!!!!.... It has been at least more than a decade... & I still remember the pea shooters... <3 Nostalgia!!!!!....
This is such a fun book to revisit after many years.
