https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2359770.Taming_Natasha
This is the first book in the Stanislaski series.
Natasha is a beautiful woman who owns a toy shop.
That involves taking his little girl to the toy shop owned by a beautiful Ukrainian woman.
One shout out I want to do for the fabulous Nora is the fact that whenever she includes children in her stories she never forgets them.
How many times are you reading away on a great story and pause on the parents who can skip out without thinking about babysitters, baths, meals, etc.
Nora always brings the children and all the work involved to the front of the story.
Kids do kid stuff in her books.
It’s been a long time since I read a pure romance.
Yes, that’s what  Nora Roberts’s  Taming Natasha is.
Both had difficult relationships and endured troublesome pasts.
Spence, with the help of his love for daughter Freddie seemed almost recovered; Tash still anguishes with all she went through and has a hard time trusting again, most of all her own feelings.
They do not have an uncomplicated or easy relationship, however always endearing.
This is a beautiful and emotional story, masterfully delivered by Roberts.I read it the fist time a few years ago, but I liked as much or even more now.
Dulce... Muy dulce ❤
Entretenido, escrito con la solvencia de la autora , que por algo es quién es dentro del género. Sin más pretensiones que una historia típica. Recomendable para un par de horas de asueto
passive for the rest of her personality as an entrepreneur and dancer and with strong family support.That said, this is one of Roberts' best depictions of a dependent child with Freddie (Frederica) stealing many of the scenes she is in as she quietly steals your heart alongside.
She's 6 and Roberts gets the flavor of her character pitch perfect and her interactions with Tash are genuine and full of warmth without being cloying or manipulative.This is also one of the more solid family dynamics for this stage of Roberts' career, I think.
Rating 3.5I enjoyed this book, it was sweet and nice.When the heroine Natasha meets the hero, she has a very bad impression of him mainly because she thinks he's a married man hitting on her while buying a toy for his daughter but she soon learns differently when she see him in class.
The hero was young and selfish once but soon came to realize the love he had for his child while the heroine had been hurt by losing a child.
Another good Nora Roberts book!
Gostei de ver a árvore genealógica ao início - mas ao mesmo tempo acaba por ser um spoiler. Gostei da mensagem deste livro - amar e perdoar, não esquecer o passado e não ter medo de arriscar.
No sé si soy yo o es demasiado perfecto que ella tenga como negocio una tienda de juguetes, que él sea perfecto, guapo y tenga una hija y que acaben juntos porque todo es cosa del destino... siempre me gusta una buena novela de Nora Roberts pero a veces creo que son demasiado perfectas para mi gusto...
I also thought it was great that we got little hints about Tash's story, and when she told Spence after she realized she was pregnant, which I loved, it was so heartbreaking, how Anthony dismissed her, and she was so young and naive, and how Lily just died, I mean that's all she had other than her family, and she was gone.
I loved Spence's story as well, and how because he was so awful towards Freddie at the beginning, he wants everything for her now.
I love how cute Freddie is because she thinks Natasha is so beautiful and she wants her with them.
Uma história de amor engraçada, gostei do Natasha mas acho que faltava força à protagonista, irritou-me algumas das atitudes dela relativamente ao Spence mas tendo em conta o contexto em que foi escrito (década de 90) acho que está uma história bem conseguida. A Freddie era muito engraçada, proporcionou momentos engraçados com a Natasha, a relação que elas criam é muito fofa! A familia Stanislaski é demais, todos muito peculiares...
Лека, забавна и романтична книга, която без проблеми допринася за един хубаво прекаран следобед.
Esta parece ser outra saga bastante interessante. A Nora tem uma mão talentosa para lidar com famílias numerosas.
At least in this story, the attack kiss happened after some acknowledgement of attraction, but it still felt out of the blue.
So the relationship between Spence and Freddie was really well written - you can honestly get feels from the way he describes how much he loves his daughter.
In the end, we do learn what causes this and it's easier to sympathize, but in her pain she hurts Spencer, who by that time was my favorite character (NR really does write good heroes) and I wanted more grovel from her.
Taming Natasha is a Category Romance Nora Roberts book, meaning it is roughly half the length of her typical Single Title novels (400+ pages) of the day.
To put things simply, Natasha is a former ballerina who escaped Ukraine as a child to come to New York with her family, and who now runs a toy store in a small town in West Virginia.
If this book had been a Single Title novel, you can be sure we would've received lengthy flashbacks of Natasha's childhood in Ukraine and days in ballet, as well as Spence's marriage and past in music composition.
Această serie cuprinde poveștile membrilor familiei Stanislaski, un neam de ucraineni frumoși, pătimași și sentimentali, cu sânge fierbinte de țigani în vene.
Yuri și Nadia împreună cu copiiilor au trecut cu ani în urmă munții, marcați de teamă, frig și foame, dar sperând într-un viitor mai bun pentru copii.
Și au reușit.Primul volum, Îmbânzind-o pe Natasha este, după cum arată și titlul, povestea Natashei, fiica cea mare.Relaţiile de familie, modul în care sunt redate, iubirea ce răzbate printre rânduri, spiritul de apartenenţă, sacrificiu şi loialitate, şi marele respect pentru spiritul de familie sunt categoric marile atuuri ale cărţilor Norei Roberts.
Taming Natasha by Nora Roberts is the first book in the Stanislaski series, and while I don’t love it like the later books in the series, it really is a great start.Taming Natasha starts off with a misconception, which leads to Natasha and Spence not getting off to a great start.
She does jump to conclusions too quickly, but she is a nice woman.It took me a bit to completely get behind the romance between Spence and Natasha, but once I did, I really got behind them as a couple.
And it is clear that Spence and Natasha make such a wonderful couple.I so loved the supporting cast.
No real story to this - just former ballerina who now runs a toy shop meeting and falling for a single dad and his adorable daughter ...
Author: Nora RobertsFirst published: 1991Length: 2871 kindle locationsSetting: Contemporary Small-town.
Shepherds town, West Virginia.Sex: Explicit.
Infrequent.Hero: Composer / teacher.Heroine: Russian former ballerina now toy shop owner.Trigger: (view spoiler)[A few triggers here.
Freddie was unwanted by her mother and led a lonely life before her mother’s death (raised by housekeeper).
Became pregnant, he denied her, and the baby ultimately died from cot death.
(hide spoiler)]A nice romance with a good child character.
Strong female character (yay!) with a nod to different cultures and backgrounds.Better than I expected but a pretty easy Harlequin Romance.Not that there’s anything wrong with that.
eso sí, es más o menos un instalove, más por parte de él que de ella, porque Natasha lo odia desde que lo ve por primera vez jaja también hay que tener en cuenta la extensión del libro, que es bastante corto para lo que estoy acostumbrada leer de Nora Roberts.
Y Natasha me ha gustado mucho como personaje, pero a veces me hubiera gustado gritarle a la cara unas cuantas cosas xd Me ha encantado la relación que tiene con su hermano Mikhail y no puedo esperar para leer su libro!
Taming Natasha is book one in the Stanislaski series by Nora Roberts.
Natasha Stanislaski had moved from New York City to a small town.
She has all she wants and needs with her toy store and her home.
That perhaps is the reason she reacted to uncharacteristically when a gorgeous man came in with a woman and a little girl and began to flirt with her.
Freddie turned his life upside down.
When he takes Freddie to the toy store for a doll, he is not ready to have his world turned upside down.
What will happen between the two of them?
I liked the characters as well as the love story.
For Spencer, it was instant attraction.I loved Spencer.
He was just too cute as he went about wooing Natasha to give in to their attraction.
I loved that they ended up becoming friends.
I will admit to not like Natasha at first.
But after learning her back story over the span of the book, I could see how she ended up being untrusting.
Freddy was also a cute character and I liked her scenes with Natasha.If you are in the mood for a good solid contemporary romance, this one is worth checking out.
If you enjoy complicated plots and well developed characters, perhaps you should look elsewhere. When I reached the end of this book I was shocked ... because almostnothing happens. Frigid toy store owner meets handsome music professor, he pursues her, she eventually acquiesces, she gets pregnant. Honestly, I picked this book up only because it was one of the few immediately available for download from my library as I was preparing for a long plane flight.
One thing that's good about being sick, is getting to curl up with your favorite books. The Stanislaski series by Nora Roberts is one of my all time faves. I've read and reread this series over and over since my teen years. I was so happy to find it out as an ebook! Now I'm hoping my Nook will charge quickly so I can continue the series while I recover from the flu.
Bu kadının yarattığı ailelere bayılıyorum.. Her bir üyesi birbirinden tatlı oluyor :D Bir Nora Roberts klasiği, yine çok hoştu.. Acaba yeni bir MacGregor ailesi mi geliyor diye düşündürdü.. Umarım o seri gibi harika devam eder bu da..En çok ilgimi çeken kardeş şimdilik Mikhail..
Me ha gustado mucho para ser un libro corto. Desde luego voy a seguir leyendo la serie. Nora Roberts como siempre, ha sabido llevarnos por la trama de forma estupenda.(Sin ser una novela demasiado complicada en cuanto a argumento.)
Totally melodramatic and cheesy in places, but I LOVED IT! The best Nora Roberts I've read! Sometimes cheese and predictability is just what I need.
Good simple y bien escrita, muy tranquila y sin demasiado drama
Perfekt som lättläst sommarläsning.
I am a huge Nora Roberts fan so I surprised even myself when I found that I just couldn't get into "Taming Natasha" with the same enthusiasm as I had for previous Nora Roberts books.
Both Natasha and Spence came across as unlikable characters; she quickly judgmental and somewhat full of herself (her perception that men are always reacting the same way to her looks) and he quickly attracted to her physical appearance and acting on it on first sight with his child in tow.I love a Nora Roberts story where there is a little cat and mouse going on, a build up to date, the growing of a relationship, then the happily ever after.
Maybe for some this pattern is found in "Taming Natasha," I just couldn't get past characters I didn't like.
