https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77432.Post_Captain
This could, of course, simply be a result of its place as the first book in the series -- a series which stretches just over twenty books -- but there is little if any building for the future in Master and Commander, making it more in conception like O'Brian's The Catalans than his Aubrey-Maturin series.But all of that "future building," all of that stuff needed to sustain a tale over twenty books, is present in Post Captain.Many, though not all, of the characters that will become important to Jack and Stephen make their first appearance here: Mrs. Williams and her daughter, Sophia (Sophie (view spoiler)[when she becomes Jack's wife (hide spoiler)]), their cousin Diana Villiers and Sir Joseph Blaine.
One who is a bit sniffily about the fact that Jane (quite unfairly, I'm sure!) did not give us the thoughts of the male half of the regency romance equation.The first 200 pages of this novel do really read like a historical romance.
Jack Aubrey is of course the most extreme example of this, but there are plenty of other ones brought up on every page of the book.
No, number two in the series is not a typical Aubrey/Maturin adventure, yet it is perhaps better than the first!While book one, Master & Commander, was about war and friendship, the second book, Post Captain enters the love arena, and friendship is put to the test.
Some of the subject matter (even Aubrey's ship itself!) is a touch unorthodox, but there's still enough of what you came for and I doubt you'll be disappointed in continuing on with this very satisfying series.My review of book one, Master and Commander:http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...My review of book three, HMS Surprise:http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
Do you know where you are?'"Having already put himself into debt by spending money he thought would be paid, Aubrey spends a good amount of the book trying to do two things: stay one step ahead of his creditors, and get another assignment on a ship, as soon as possible.
This also requires Stephen to move his bees out of the cabin, which gives us this great conversation between Aubrey and Maturin while Aubrey is furiously decorating (seriously guys, I cannot say enough good things about O'Brian's dialogue):"'We can shift the bulkhead a good eighteen inches for'ard,' said Jack.
My friend, Jose, regularly re-read the whole Aubrey-Maturin series.
He found it so rich that diving back into it was a constant pleasure.
This is not my first time through, and O'Brian's work holds my attention as firmly as it did initially.In Post Captain, we find Aubrey in dire financial straits (nautical analogy works well) and we learn a lot more of Maturin's secrets (and secret life).
O'Brian's writing is witty, precisely attuned to the issues at hand (and their correct terminology) and so historically accurate that you never doubt what is going on in this parallel universe.
What joy!
This is partly coming from the romantic comedy angle that justifies all the references to Jane Austen I have seen in reviews, and partly from the hijinks the apparently dour and serious minded Stephen Maturin gets up to : disguising Jack in a bear costume for a dangerous escape from hostile France, dealing with a booze addicted monkey on one of the ships they sail in, trying to raise bees in the captain's cabin, and much more.I thought I would resent the time the couple of friends spent on land and away from the sea, but I was surprised at how well the author is chanelling the works of Jane Austen without becoming a pastiche or a parody.
Patrick O’Brian’s worldbuilding conveys the impression that there are not only detailed landscape and dwellings to be glimpsed through the smallest window, but the roads lead somewhere just as detailed, whether the story leads us there or not.O’Brian is a perfect example of what I call the bricolage method of worldbuilding, bricolage being (I think) a strong element of appeal for many genre readers.O’Brian’s mastery of history is evident in the slight references that evoke, to the reader who knows that history, actions of far reaching consequence.
It’s their foibles, their humanity, and above all their relationship, that make Jack and Stephen so compelling.Much as this book owes to Jane Austen, it is not a work with a tiny brush on two inches ivory, as she said about her own work.
"This is perhaps the final detachment; and this is perhaps the only way to live -- free, surprisingly light and well, no diminution of interest but no commitment: a liberty I have hardly ever known."- Patrick O'Brian, 'Post Captain'The second book in O'Brian's Aubrey/Maturin series (20 books).
The thing that strikes me in this novel is how fantastic the relationship is between Captain Jack Aubrey and naval surgeon Stephen Maturin.
However, I love the relationship between Aubrey and Maturin.
Kirk and Dr. Leonard "Bones" McCoy. I am pretty sure this Star Trek (1966–69) and Master and Commander/Post Captain (1969 - 1972) universes emerged independent of each other, but it is also amazing to see the similarities.
The land based captain Jack Aubrey was not as strong and so sure of himself as the Master and Commander we came to know from the first book.
(hide spoiler)] Patrick O’Brian is undoubtedly a master of historical fiction and particularly of naval history, but strangely (to me), his character building is also really strong.
Jack finds himself to be the epitome of hilarity with his “keeping Handle up in the air” on the pipe organ but I am sure that Stephen was thinking, ”I guess you had to be there mate” !!!
No, ma veramente mancano  SOLO  altri 18 libri e poi questa serie FINISCE?? E poi io che faccio???
Sure, that's a plus for some, but I hate it & the story was very uneven.
The first third of the book with threads running all the way through concentrated on ridiculous love interests & land problems.
It does make quite a statement about the economics of the war & the idiocy of societies, though.On the plus side, Steven is a far more intriguing character now.
Best of all, the book finally found its legs in the last half & ended very well, but it was long.
As much as I love the characters, the writing wears on me & another book of such length & uneven quality will likely end it for me.
The second installment of the Aubrey-Maturin chronicles is long, and has the unpredictable, organic rhythm one comes to expect of the books: the small and large concerns chasing each other, defeat crowding upon victory, action on small, daily joys.This volume brings us deeper into the landed life of the two protagonists, and explores new highs and lows in their friendship. It also brings us new ships to love and hate, blazing action, and the difference between the wizened heads of male and female gibbons.
I started with this book, rather than Master and Commander, on a friend's recommendation, and I had more fun than I've had with a book in a long while. O'Brian has a strong, witty technique—and his command of omniscient point of view makes it feel as natural as breathing. This is a book about a single, particular friendship, and on that ground it succeeds enormously.
I read the first book a few years back and enjoyed it, though I struggled with the morass of seafaring terms.
There is perhaps less action here than in the first book, but the stakes are higher and more of the secondary characters are fleshed out.
Aubrey and Maturin are both still complex, believable, flawed characters with a complicated friendship.
The writing is good, there are moments of humor, and the setting is brought so thoroughly to life that a reader might be fooled into believing O’Brian was writing about his own time period.
But the main point of Post Captain is the time that our heroes spend ashore, and particularly in the establishment of the love between Jack and his eventual wife Sophie.The action moves rapidly between land and sea and, as the telltale compression of pages draws us home, the reader suffers the same bittersweet emotions that will wash over one toward the end of a Jane Austen story.
That is why it is even intelligible for Stephen to declare, “There is much to be said for directness.” Funnily enough, this is a slogan that will appeal to many in the year 2010 who would never bother to read O’Brian, let alone read Austen.
Bello come sanno esserlo i libri di avventura. Quel genere che si ama da ragazzi e non si smette più di amare. Peccato che O’Brien tifi spudoratamente per Stephen e lascia a Jack la parte del sempliciotto genio solo nell’arte di navigare e guerreggiare (tipo idiot savant).
I can't even get my mind around how much story was in this book, but it was wonderful.
They arrange for a duel, but it falls through.There are several boat battles and Jack takes his ship right into the French sea port during one.Jack is hurt and Stephen patches him up.
They go out at the end to capture a Spanish treasure and that is where this 2nd story ends.The stories make me want to learn more about Navel History, especially how the British, French, Spanish were constantly sailing around taking each others' ships.
The heart of this series is clearly the relationship between Captain Aubrey and his friend Dr. Stephen Maturin.
While we're on the subject of women, I must mention that Patrick O'Brian writes his female characters just as well as he writes his male ones.
The women here never come off as caricatures the way other excellent male writers' female characters sometimes do (thinking of Dora in Charles Dickens' otherwise masterful "David Copperfield" here).
There are so many examples I could cite, but I especially love the dialogue surrounding Dr. Maturin's decision to bring bees aboard their ship, the Lively.
This is now my third time reading through this brilliant series and I am reminded again how beautifully written and how wonderfully, addictively enjoyable they are.Post Captain is the second in the sequence and the book in which O'Brian really hit his stride, I think.
O'Brian's handling of language is masterly, with the dialogue being especially brilliant, but also things like the way his sentences become shorter and more staccato in the action passages, making them heart-poundingly exciting.
A very enjoyable entry in the series, as we get to see Jack and Stephen fall in love, struggle with money, go on an adventure or two, and the real use of a dancing bear. Lots of little nautical details and don't let the esoteric terms through you off -- it's worth the effort. Five stars overall and very much recommended. For the longer review please go here:http://www.epinions.com/review/Post_C...
Damned if these books aren't getting better, after an indifferent Vol. 1.
Fantastic.Great story, wonderfully written characters, climactic action, and even a healthy dose of comedy. Also, the narration of the audio book is superb. Each character (even side characters who only appear once or twice) is given a unique voice and accent that really elevates the book as a whole and makes it very easy to follow the dialogue. And following the dialogue is important, given all the naval lingo.Highly recommended.
I can sort of see this: certainly the presence of Sophie, Frances and Cecilia Williams goes some way to correcting the chief defect of the first book — the total absence of female characters — and the love triangle of sorts between the tough, smart Diana Viliers, Aubrey and Maturin is a great source of interest and dramatic tension.
I love in particular Stephen's asides here, like this evocative and rather Conradian sequence on the shoreline:‘...So he paced this strange, absolute and silent landscape of firm damp sand with rivulets running to its edges and the lapping sea, eating bread with one hand and cold beef with the other.
The Aubrey/Maturin series is a marvel. Every five years or so I work my way through it again. Right now I'm listening to Simon Vance's fine audiobook versions."Post Captain" is the one book I always have trouble rereading because of the rift between Jack and Stephen. Silly I know but there it is.Carac
This was better than the first book for me. Jack and Stephen were not the annoying characters I found them in the first book and the story could be quite humourous in places.I enjoyed the love story element but was very happy to have them back at sea by the end of the book.
Silence; a perfection of dust-sheets, rolled carpets, ranged furniture; rays of light that came through the shutters, motes turning in them; moths; the first delicate cobwebs in unexpected places, such as the carved mantelpiece in the library, where Mr Lowndes had written some lines of Sappho large on the wall in chalk .
I would have never found this series or started reading it on my own.
I guess, it's quite a requital for Lymond series :) in a good way.
if it doesn't, then I'm lost for a word.)Anyway, the book is excellent - great characters and impeccable writing, the number of quotes I highlighted is astonishing - phrases like a very repellent state of filth, vile conduct, a flash of his old idiot self; sentences, whole paragraphs.The characters are quite something, the things the two of them are proficient at - medicine, sailing, music, languages, swordsmanship and marksmanship.
Book 3 is straight ahead.
In My Name Escapes Me Alec Guinness spoke very highly of Patrick O'Brian's books, and as it's not every day one gets a reading recommendation from a celebrated actor, I picked this book up on my next trip to the library.Here's the strange part: Lately I have been absolutely living and breathing everything related to the Spanish American wars of independence of the early 19th century.
And it just so happens that O'Brian's hero Jack Aubrey is based on the real life figure of Lord Thomas Cochrane, a man who played a significant role in those wars.
The second book in the series of 20 and maybe the one where the author realized it would be his life’s work. Master And Commander works as a stand alone sea adventure. This one takes place a good bit on land as it introduces Sophie and Diana who will eventually marry Jack and Stephen. It also sets up the strong friendship between Jack and Stephen. Jack is given a very peculiarly built ship which he captains successfully. I relied heavily on ASea Of Words for help in understanding the navy and nautical terms.
Another fantastic book in the Master and Commander series.
If you are concerned because of how many series get poorer with each successive book, don’t be.
The level of writing and action both stay the course and prove once again what a masterful author Mr. O’Brian is.
The story takes place in 1803 as the French and British go at each other once again.
Captain Aubrey, however, not only has the French to contend with but also his own creditors from back home.
There are also the beginnings of a love forming in his heart which adds to it all.
