https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/709829.They_Were_Counted
The trilogy is composed of: They Were CountedThey Were Found WantingThey Were Divided.These titles are taken from the Book of Daniel, from the Belshazzar’s Feast, when a hand appeared and wrote on the wall:God has numbered the days of your kingdom and brought it to an end; you have been weighed on the scales and found wanting; your kingdom is divided and given to your enemies.This is how Rembrandt saw this episode:What Banffy sees in this Writing is the Advent of WWI and the end of Hungary’s Dreams.I would like to read a good biography of Miklos Banffy.
I went into this first book, “They Were Counted”, with a desire to read a big classic that would take me to a different world, society, and culture, and that would introduce me to a cast of characters that I wanted to spend pages and pages on.
Right from the beginning, we are introduced to a heavy cast of characters which seems overwhelming, but luckily this book comes with a character list.
If you have any interest in reading a grand classic set in a different country from most of the books we (I assume!) read, then I highly recommend “They Were Counted” which left me happy to know that there is much more to come in the second and third books.
Description: Painting an unrivalled portrait of the vanished world of pre-1914 Hungary, this story is told through the eyes of two young Transylvanian cousins, Count Balint Abády and Count László Gyeroffy.
We open with Balint Abády, who is actually a goodie, heading towards a meet up with László Gyeroffy (geroff?).
Hungarian revolution 1848□ □ □ □ □ □ □The titles of this trilogy have their source here:Daniel 5,5: Suddenly the fingers of a human hand appeared and wrote on the plaster of the wall, near the lampstand in the royal palace.
The politics are interesting but Bánffy clearly expected his contemporary audience at the time of writing to be familiar with politicians and political parties in a way that we’re not today so be prepared for some Googling to keep up with the factionalism.
Bánffy is sardonic about the way in which Hungarians are parochially concerned with internal politics, ignoring events in Germany and Russia – but it’s perhaps always easy to say that with hindsight.Overall, then, a long and absorbing read that offers a window on a world that feels both familiar and simultaneously long gone.
When, in the 1920’s, George Mallory was asked why he persisted in trying to climb Mount Everest his famous response was “because it’s there.” A pretty fucking brilliant retort, even though it isn’t clear what exactly he meant by it.
While the book is more popularly referred to as The Transylvanian Trilogy, Banffy actually titled his work The Writing On The Wall.
These involve the relationship between Balint Abady and Adrienne Uzdi and the ups and downs of Balint’s cousin Laszlo Gyeroffy.
The reason for this gradually becomes clear to Balint over the course of They Were Counted, but from the very beginning it dominates their relationship.
For example, there’s a wonderful scene when Balint asks Adrienne for a kiss.
As in The Late Mattia Pascal, by Pirandello and published just a year before the end of this work (which I just finished), we have devious estate managers defrauding innocent widows and their children, naïve young men bumbling into disaster or narrowly missing it by trying to do others a favor, gambling as an essential plot element, defense of a gentleman’s honor according to a ridiculously bureaucratic code, and horns on many a husband.
About 20 percent concerns the political economy of Hungary in the sense of describing the ways that estates were governed and the relationships of landowners to the peasants and employees who worked and managed their lands and the petty officials around them.
The best description of the novel and of the trilogy so far at least is Gone with the Wind of the Hu
Hungary in 1905.
Meanwhile the politicians bicker and Hungary remains under the crown of the King of Austria.
The inane Hungarian customs of nobility, duelling when "honour" has been offended, money-lending, drinking, carousing and gambling are all brought to life in a book full of stories.There are a lot of characters.
Count Balint Abady finds himself as a member of Parliament and seems to be the only character with a shred of common sense, except for his on-going frustrating longing for the beautiful but married Adrienne Miloth.
Abady's cousin Count László Gyeroffy is a gambler, relies on his women paramours to pay off his debts.
If anyone had asked me a while ago whether I'd be interested in reading a nearly 700-page Hungarian novel, I'd have said "no, thanks." Call it small-mindedness, but aside from the basics (Austrian-Hungarian empire, Gavrilo Princip, WWI, strange language that bears no resemblance to any other European language besides Finnish) I knew nothing about Hungary and wasn't particularly inclined to learn more.
Bánffy writes beautifully, giving me passages like this when I'm not even a hundred pages into the novel:"De maanverlichte nacht was van een onverwachte schoonheid, en Bálint werd erdoor geraakt alsof er plotseling een gil had weerklonken.
Y relacionado con éste último aspecto hay un detalle que me ha gustado mucho: la forma en que los transilvanos son ninguneados en Budapest, y como los húngaros de Budapest son ninguneados en la capital del Imperio.Es la primera parte de una trilogía, que sin duda me voy a leer entera más temprano que tarde (si nada ni nadie me lo impide), porque a parte de tener unos personajes muy bien construidos y un estilo narrativo que fluye de manera ejemplar, también se trata de una obra tan válida hoy en día como lo fue en su momento de publicación; es lo que tienen los clásicos, y yo me atrevo a decir que ‘Los días contados’ de Miklós Bánffy es todo un clásico.
Life in early 1900s Hungary and Romania are dramatically portrayed through the lives of 2 cousins, Balint Abady and Laszlo Gyeroffy.
While born to aristocracy, Balint is compassionate, somewhat naive and finds himself in a doomed relationship with a married woman.
Written with dazzling detail, it took me a while to get through all names and descriptions of characters in the first chapter.
The dazzling balls, shooting parties, and elaborate dinners bring out the opulence of the period among the aristocracy.
There's a growing middle class with little patience with and great dislike and distrust of the aristocracy.
I want to save a full review for the final volume of the Transylvanian Trilogy (I started reading book two right away); but just to be clear, They Were Counted was just phenomenal.
Reading it, I felt like I did when I saw Chekhov's Three Sisters for the first time--all of the ambition and craft of a consensus English-class masterpiece, but also bracingly personal and contemporary.
I didn't feel like I was eating my vegetables, I felt like I was invited into a whole new world, as evocative and absurd and eerie and psychologically gripping as any other fictional world that I can think of.
Possibly the last word in pre-Freudian boy-meets-girl books.
"A" for effort; "B-" for translation and sheer ponderousness.
It was billed as one of those enjoyable Mittleuropa tragicomedies, where characters go from fancy dress balls, to shooting parties, to horse races, all while the Austro-Hungarian Empire burns to the ground.
The parties were there, but since it's only 1906, perhaps the fire is in book two or three.
And the only interesting -- independent minded -- women disappears halfway through the book.
Still, I enjoyed it; though it surely could be improved by a better translation.
It starts slow, but once you immerse yourself in that world (and the many names and characters), it is completely absorbing. Very much like War and Peace, it covers both the personal and the political/historical, ideas and sentiments. A towering achievement.
Le parti più prettamente storiche sono veramente interessanti, e il glossario a fine del libro aiuta a fare un po’ di chiarezza su una parte della storia europea non troppo conosciuta.
I personaggi sono tantissimi, per tutti i gusti, dal grottesco al patetico, ma tutti perfettamente funzionali alla storia.
Se cercate un romanzo storico che vi faccia compagnia a lungo e vi entri dentro, con un convincente affresco dell’epoca e personaggi a cui non ne va mai bene una, non cercate più, avete trovato il vostro uomo.
3.5 stars (when will GR start allowing us to add 1/2 stars properly?!)Well this took a while to read!
It needs focus and concentration (beware the blurb on the back cover which says perfect night time reading!).Loved learning about that period of the Austria-Hungary empire.
Loved all the descriptions of Transylvania and the parties and lifestyle they led.Somehow though the characters felt a bit flat to me and I found myself at times not overly emotionally connected to them.
It may be that I didn't give it the due time and attention it properly deserved as most of the reviews are stellar....
How many idiots have given me their books; and how many times have I turned such pages, thinking, 'Only an idiot could have come up with this churlish piece of gray matter.' I saw also that Banffy's book(s) is called The Writing on the Wall.
O yes - the blinds!'And thus we begin with The Book of Daniel, and come to a ghostly seaside end, thinking, "Damn it, I wish it went on."Well, friend, this time it does.
They Were Counted describes the story of two Transylvanian upper class cousins Balint Abady and Laszlo Gyeroffy.
Abady is responsible, is driven by honor and believes that the upper class should take care the lower classes, as they are illiterate and don't know how to help themselves.
Laszlo cares only about himself, drinks, gambles and is totally indifferent about the reality of his country.
Both of them really live in a world of their own, the world of the upper class, where they don't really understand what is happening and how the other people are struggling.
I suppose the greatest question one can ask after finishing the first of a trilogy, is do i want to read the others?
and the answer in the case of 'They Were Counted is a resounding yes!
To any fan of Bourgeois central european writing, This really is a must read.
it has everything one would want, incredibly rich luxurious writing, a raft of interesting, lovable and grotesque characters, beautiful locations, dashing gentlemen and sensual ladies.
The host of sub-plots is exhaustive and always entertaining and the insight to the politics of Austro-Hungarian life is incredible.
I would have rated this a five star, merely for educating me on the Transylvanian history and offering a different perspective on the Hapsburg empire.But the novel seems so utterly focused on foolhardy decisions, on wasted, self indulgent young men who rarely do anything of value, that it became tedious to go through.
If Banffy was trying to criticise his country-men as being unclear, unfocused and uninspired people, he came out a success.
And if it was just that, the Anna Karenina drama was misplaced.To me, a great setting was wasted on description of mundane balls and social engagement.
Primera novela de la 'Trilogía transilvana'.
Una novela muy interesante, ambientada en la Hungría de comienzos de siglo XX, las pugnas entre Budapest, Viena y Transilvania.
Refleja muy bien la sociedad de la época, los problemas políticos del Imperio de Austria-Hungría y diferentes personajes dentro de la misma sociedad elitista.
Dos personajes llevan el peso central de la obra, Bálint Abády, y su primo Laszlo Gyeroffy, muy distintos, pero unidos por ese romanticismo clásico del siglo XVIII-XIX.
Pese a tener tramas amorosas, no cae en la típica idealización o maldición de éstas, sino que muestra las dudas de los amantes, las ganas de tirarlo todo por la borda, odiar a su amado/a y comerse ese odio en cuestión de segundos al verla pasar.
Easily one of the best books I’ve read in recent memory (this and the following volume).
The writing is incredible, the scenes are lush, the characters are deep and well formed – in every way this book is worth increased attention.
This first volume really sets the stage for the following two books – compiled into one volume by the publisher – and there is a lot to be put in place.
Numerous characters, back stories, setting, intrigues are all introduced, and yet I never found myself confused or lost.
The plotting is so well put together that it’s easy to lose yourself in the world Bánffy describes.
This book rules, i'm so excited to read the next one, it's all about loving the ladies and duels and drinking and balls and making out in the woodsand it's also a really well done portrait of a failing culture that really captures a feeling and a culture that is really important to all of modern history....awesome
Miklós Bánffy They Were Counted (first volume of The Writing on the Wall: The Transylvanian Trilogy) (1937).On the cover of my edition of this novel is a blurb from Charles Moore of the Daily Telegraph: “Just about as good as any fiction I have ever read.” This line stayed with me as I read this .
As it looks back to the turn of the century—Hungary and Romania in the last years of the Austro-Hungarian Empire—the novel is epic in its scope, but also deeply intimate and personal as Bánffy zeroes in on the lives of a few select characters, notably the contrasting young Counts Balint Abády and László Gyeröffy.
Dos mundos, el de la política y el del amor, que se entrelazan de manera desgarradamente bella en las vidas de los dos protagonistas para formar un tronco común que medita acerca de la sociedad, las personas, las emociones, gestos, convenciones y maneras de ser del mundo que se perdió con las guerras mundiales. Se adentra en los entresijos de la cultura de la nobleza húngara, sobretodo la transilvana, como uno más, retratando la misma vida del autor, que era uno de ellos. Magnífica oda a la nostalgia y la melancolía.
Phenomenal. Looking forward to volumes II and III.
4,5 stars
The story is immensely interesting if you are fascinated by Hungarian history or pre-World War I aristocracy and, I imagine, a good companion if you are studying either subject.
(If you have little background in pre-World War I Central European politics and society, parts of the story might be confusing, so be prepared to look up various meanings and ranks of titles and people as you read along, as I did.) Bánffy includes detailed specifics about the real-life political happenings of the time, a style that can get heavy and confusing if you're not familiar with all the politicians and history of 1903–1905.
It's the first in a trilogy and the story is definitely not finished, so I'll be able to think about it better once I've read all three.It's not what I expected.
I started out thinking it was something like a Hungarian Jane Austen book -- balls, duels, etc.
By the end I kept thinking of Romeo and Juliet.
The structure seems almost comic at times -- the rules of a duel, the order of the dances at the ball, even the political arena.
It does make me wonder, though, how the book would read if translation were better.Looking forward to part 2.
Beautiful.This is an epic, sprawling story about the fall of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, that manages to explore the individual, familial and ethnic spheres of the pre-war nation- which made for good reading after the claustrophobic, martial scope of "The Radetzky March" (another novel I just read about the fall of the Austro-Hungarian Empire- I seem to be on a roll).
Perhaps later editions are better in that sense, but I didn't mind too much, as I love that turquoise cover- the delicate illustration conjures up the perfect atmosphere for the story of a vanished world.
