https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42512.We_Were_Soldiers_Once_and_Young
This Gives Life to TheeNo contentious politics, no military apologetics, no analysis of motives, or rationalizations of judgmental error, We Were Soldiers is a memorial to the soldiers of the Air Cavalry during their first battles in Vietnam.
The book reports almost every step taken by the two battalions involved in the week-long battles of Ia Drang, mostly in the words of the soldiers - on both sides - who took those steps.
It is a humbling and heartbreaking chronicle of comradeship, suffering and frequent violent death.
Written without any conventional narrative and in direct journalistic prose, the book presents no message other than remembrance.
I came back disillusioned and angry as many did.But when I finished this book, I looked at my wife and said, "If THIS MAN were to walk up to our front door, drop a rucksack and a rifle on the porch and say "Follow Me," I would do it.
I was gratified some years later to learn that Hal Moore retired as a General Officer.I still would still follow Lt Col. Moore.
But I do feel that there should be a required reading list for anyone who wants to send young Americans to die on foreign battlefields and this book should be high on that list.
This is the story of the Battle of Ia Drang and the first time United States ground troops went up against the North Vietnamese Army (NVA) in a pitched fight.
More proof that this was a no-win situation: the U.S. army would free a region/village from NVA control turn it over to the South Vietnamese, who would promptly let be overrun; leading to a repetition of bloodletting and misery to re-take it.In his book Moore does touch upon this, the larger picture, at the end, but it’s the heroism and valor of his troops and the in-battle decision making that make up the bulk of the book.
jedna od najboljih knjiga o ratu koju sam pročitao. bez pretjeranog busanja u prsa i mačoizma, ispričana iz perspektive vojnika koji su u bici učestvovali, a autori su se potrudili, otišli u Vijetnam i intervjuirali vođe druge strane, te u knjigu ubacili i njihovu perspektivu.Plus, samo da znate, film prikazuje samo prvi dio bitke.
Surrounded and with no means of resupply or extraction except by air, the outnumbered U.S. soldiers must hold their ground and fight for their lives until able to maneuver to safety.The reason Moore asserts Ia Drang changed the Vietnam conflict is that this battle is not only the first engagement of NVA regulars, this is the first test of vertical envelopment using rotary wing aircraft (helicopters).
In contrast to the intense, descriptive language of the Prologue and Chapter 1, The Heat of Battle, Chapter 2, The Roots of Conflict, delves into the background taking the point of view of both the Americans who were by and large new to Vietnam and the North Vietnamese People’s Army, testing and evaluating the new American fighters whom they knew were supported by a new entry into warfare, the Huey chopper.
Escape and Evade, Night Without End. The Sergeant and the Ghost.As one who has never been in a war, it is hard for me to understand how and why the men described in We Were Soldiers Once … And Young did what they did.
I absolutely loved the book and I especially liked how the author and 1st battalion CO, Colonel Hal Moore, allowed key contributors to each write their own narrative.
This was a new type of airmobile warfare and Hal Moore’s battalion was highly trained.
In this part of the story, the new battalion is moving in column through the jungle when they bump into enemy forces.
Hal Moore’s troops had to saddle up and relieve the other battalion.The North Vietnamese claimed that they learned from the fight in the Ia Drang and they took copious notes about how to beat the Americans.
Every time I read a book about a war, or a battle, or a military conflict which is written by someone who experienced the conflict first hand (AKA a combat veteran,) I feel the need to explain something before I begin my review.
Based on the above statement, I should state that for whatever reason, ignorance or stupidity or whatever, I have found that usually, I only understand War from a "Platoon or Company perspective." I have read, understood, appreciated and loved multiple books by Lieutenants, Sergeants, and even Captains, but I have a much more difficult time understanding higher ranking officers or larger military units.
Since I'm now reading the sequal I thought I'd review the original book. This is probably the best book to come out of the Vietnam war, and is a classic in terms of the view from the other side. This is the battle where America "took the plunge' into the war and was the battle that the North Vietnamese used as a blueprint for their war against the Americans for the next 10 years.
This book is about the first major American contact with the enemy in what became the Ia Drang campaign.This book concentrates on firsthand accounts of two battles, but starts and finishes with historical and political musings, as well as the effects of war on the families back home.The first part is devoted to the history of the development of air assault doctrine, which was a completely new concept in warfighting, with a lot of promise for a place like Vietnam.
Put on your helmet and web gear if you're going to read this epic. This is a real page-turner that pulls no punches. Nicely researched and written in the clear, no-nonsense language you would expect from a professional military man. Be alert, however: one can be confused by some of the anecdotal input - it's sometimes hard to tell where one soldier's comment ends and the next fellow's begins. All in all, a great read which blows the movie out of the water, and that's coming from someone who loved the movie.
Galloway out of The Colony, Texas public library.
I read the book first and was surprised when I saw the movie.
General Moore and Joseph Galloway have written a fine book.
It should be must reading for every military officer and politician.
We Were Soldiers Once and Young is terrific book!
I was in junior high school when the battle of Ia-Drang took place.
I watched soldiers march to and from training daily from my school's playground.
I have a cousin who graduated from high school with co-author Joseph L.
Buy it, read it, and keep it in your library.
Truth hurts.
Too much for my soft civilian sensibilities who lost father, relatives and their homeland to air force and war.
General Harold Moore and reporter Joseph Galloway start with 12 pages of Vietnam memorial soldier names.
Ouch.
Photos in the center show forever young KIA, some posed with 50s costumed large families.
Closing pages added interviews with families who were left behind.
The Prologue says movies get the war all wrong; the movie of the same name sent me to the book.
I cannot say I liked a book I did not have the fortitude to finish.
This is a must-read book for anyone interested in learning about the Vietnam War. It describes the first, crucial battle between land forces of the United States Army and North Vietnamese regulars (the NVA).
The resulting need to operate with depleted companies which the government wouldn't, or couldn't bring up to full strength was a factor which led to difficulties when the 7th found itself in combat.Any good history book about the war in 'Nam will give a useful account of the Battle of Ia Drang Valley, but none will exceed the intimacy of the factual portrayal offered by Moore and Galloway.
This includes authors such as David Halberstam and Neil Sheehan of the time frame; their tone changed over the years but the early works of these two was much different from the experience of the American Marine and Soldier in Vietnam.
General Westmoreland lent his name to the conspiracy theorists that came to rise during this time frame by not allowing any service member to discuss the neutrality of Cambodia and how the North Vietnamese would use this to their advantage – LBJ is the sole person responsible in this sense as well as he himself directed the bombing raids and targets from the Whitehouse and tied the hands of every single field commander in Vietnam.
Moore's battalion is sent into LZ X-ray and survives a battle against what would have been overwhelming odds if it were not for massive American artillery and close air support despite the expert leadership of the officers and NCOs in the battalion from Moore down and the undisputed bravery of each individual soldier.
The upper management of the Army and the government refuses any lessons to be learned from this battle, and the country continued on a path that was already decided upon before the 1st Cavalry Division even arrived in Vietnam.I wish I could give this book more than five stars.
It was a turning point in the war because American troops became more involved in the fighting.
Americans soldiers will cheer when they see the napalm strikes on the enemy soldiers.
The most savage one-day battle of the Vietnam War occurred here.
When the battle ended 155 Americans would be dead and 124 wounded.
NVA soldiers were spotted wondering around in the elephant grass killing wounded American soldiers.
"War is fear cloaked in courage."--General William Westmoreland3.
"There is many a boy here today who looks at war as all glory, but, boys, it is all hell."--General William Tecumseh Sherman4.
"Only the dead have seen the end of war."--Plato
Hal Moore, were dropped by helicopter into l clearing in the Ia Drang Valley.They were immediately surrounded by 2,000 North Vietnamese soldiers.A few miles away, a sister battalion was chopped to pieces.The conflict at the landing zones of X Ray and Albany are viewed as significant, savage and one of the most violent battles in American history.Lt Col Moore has promised his soldiers and their families"I will leave no man behind...dead or alive.
The Commandant's choice for 1993 was We Were Soldiers Once .
In November 1965, some 450 men of the 1st Battalion, 7th Cavalry, under the command of Lt. Col.
They were immediately surrounded by 2,000 North Vietnamese soldiers.
General Moore and Joseph Galloway, the only journalist on the ground throughout the fighting, have interviewed hundreds of men who fought there, including the North Vietnamese commanders.
This devastating account rises above the specific ordeal it chronicles to present a picture of men facing the ultimate challenge, dealing with it in ways they would have found unimaginable only a few hours earlier.
This is a great story of courage under fire and how Johnson and McNamara’s handling of the war was horrendous.
No definitive goal was established on how to fight and win the war.
We can’t go into Cambodia or Laos and hit the enemy where he’s staging.
To win, you must go to where the enemy is hiding.
He was trapped, but do to political maneuvering, the Pakistan government allowed him to escape and then take up refuge for a decade.
Politics aside, this an excellent addition for anyone interested in the Vietnam WarFive Stars
Incredible account of the chaos of the battle for the Ia Drang Valley in Vietnam - it was hard to follow because of all the moving pieces. But that reflected the battle well, I think. Reading it gives a glimpse of the difficulty and futility of so much of what happened in Vietnam.
The second half focuses on the battle of LZ Albany, and the terrible mauling that the 2/7 Cav took leaving the area the following day.Colonel Moore is a born leader, and this book provides a close up portrait of the kind of selfless dedication and love that men in combat deserve.
While both sides had the capacity to regenerate their units, in many ways the finely-tuned high morale 7th Cavalry that went into Vietnam could not be sustained by draftees from an increasingly anti-War America.
We never invaded North Vietnam, which I think is the main reason we lost the war.) The analysis of the battle led to our standard, Westmoreland-crafted strategic approach to the war: find the enemy; insert troops by helicopter in the middle of a shitty situation surrounded by the enemy; fix them with small arms fire; and then blast their flip-flops off with overwhelming artillery and air power.
While they were spread out in a marching column, the one remaining, fresh NVA regiment in the area overwhelmed them and killed a large number of Americans.This book is great because the story is exciting and the battle can serve as a model of the whole war.
I wanted to read a book to commemorate Memorial Day here in the U.S. I chose this book, as it was the first true battle that was fought in the Vietnam War. My Uncle was in this conflict and he never would speak about it at all.
This book made me want to know more and delve into the history behind this battle.This Memorial Day means a lot to me, as I have many family members who served.
Harold Moore seems to be the quintessential battlefield commander, who along with Sergeant Major Plumley and huey pilot Bruce Crandall joined the long line of individuals who stood tall when called.I love this quote from Robert Carrara, battle field surgeon for the !st Battalion, 7th Cav" I don't dwell on Vietnam, but now and then I hear something or smell something and flash back to those days.
We were crawling around under intense machine-gun fire when Sergeant Major Plumley walked up, pulled his .45 caliber pistol, chambered a round, and said: 'Gentlemen, prepare to defend yourselves.' You never forget a thing like that."I remember that line from the movie and thought at the time that must have been written for the script.
so in a sense, the author can be accused of doing a whitewash, covering only the glorious "search for the lost platoon" and the dramatic impact of the first ever helicopter insertion, while forgetting the human cost during the retreat.if an author does choose to make this choice, however, the resulting work is far more "impact for word count." only reads more, because the facts are more compelling.
falling short of the absolute epic quality of some of the really famous war books, We Were Soldiers Once comes pretty close to being on that level, and deserves a solid 4/5.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_o...even the wikipedia page is continued to be under dispute.apparently casualties were 5:1 against the Vietnamese even including LZ Albany.
I never read a book about the Vietnam War before.
This is an amazing retelling of two of first large engagements of the American involvement in Vietnam.
It is a sin that these men and the ones that served in Vietnam after them were never given or shown the respect that was owed to them by the country that sent them to war.
Thankfully his book was written to pass on to us the story of these men and the sacrifices they made for their country and countrymen.
This is a detailed account by a battlefield commander of a critical battle in Vietnam’s Ia Drang valley.
Many of the Americans killed were draftees within weeks or months of finishing their tour of duty and, though this is mentioned in passing, it is subsumed by descriptions of the movements of platoons and positioning them in the geography of the battle.In the end, though I doubt this was the intention, it left me with the feeling that the Vietnam debacle was viewed by some in the military as a great opportunity to try out some new ideas.
Lt.Col Hal Moore was a veteran of the Korean conflict.
He trained them as if they were going to be paratropers.
He trained them for cambat.
He had the 7th Calvary and went into cambat in Vietnam.The 7th was Custers and he got masacred.
Moore new that and he studied his enemy well.
When they went into combat the 7th aircab(Heuy helicopters) ferried them in.
The enemy was waiting and launched their attack.
Hal used several tactics to outsmart the enemy and he held his ground.
As a Vietnam veteran this book struck me really hard.
If you are the type of person that doesn't like violence even in military type novels, then don't read this book.
However, if you are seeking to understand you Vietnam veteran spouse or family member that was in the infantry this may shed some light on why we don't talk to you about our experiences - you will never understand the pain that many felt.
This is not a book for the weak hearted.
I very much enjoyed the book even though at times it brought back memories.
