https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24662040-the-judge-s-house
He paced back and forth, his glance resting on this object or that; he moved things about, smoked, and grumbled, and generally behaved as if he were waiting for something which eluded him.And that something was inspiration, though he preferred to call it a sense of well-being.It was that inspiration, that sense of well-being, that is this detective's modus operandi: Simenon's books are not tales of ratiocination, but of a very French sense of muddling through a forest of unrelated details until a picture emerges that leads to a solution.Maigret in Exile was written in 1940, just as France was to be invaded by the German army.
An elderly woman shows up at his office and tells him that there is a body at her neighbour's house in a nearby town.In his meandering way, Maigret begins his investigation.
There seems to be no particular reason for what he is doing, but in his way, he slowly gathers the inspiration to solve the crime.Maigret relies more on instinct than facts in working through the crime.
There are many interesting characters in the story, especially the neighbour, Didine, and her husband, who seem to know everything that goes on in the village.
This is a wonderful book.
Because he is in unknown territory, Maigret is really starting from scratch.
He directs his fellow policemen, the switchboard mademoiselle, the Flying Squad, the hotel staff, the witnesses and their families, and eventually the suspects with unwavering self-assurance.
He drinks white wine for breakfast, beer, brandy, cordials, port, and marc as his investigation develops.
What I love is how Maigret's vast experience is available to him but very little else.
He is forced to create the staff, the atmosphere, and the energy required to finish the investigation.
In a mussel-harvesting seaside village in the marshy Vendee in the atlantic south of France, Maigret is temporarily exiled after falling foul of police politics in Paris.At the top of a ladder, pruning his hedge, a man sees a man (a body?) lying in a room in the Judge's house next door.
It is still there the next day.
Maigret is informed and is involved in a case involving adultery, madness, murder and deception, with its seeds going back many years.A wonderful novel, with a real insight and exposition of the lives and characters of all social classes within the community, in addition, of course, to the plotting and denouement.
Great.

Tra i due uomini si instaura subito una corrente di simpatia, ma Maigret, seppur piacevolmente avvolto dall’ospitalità ricevuta, indaga partendo dalla famiglia, ovvero i figli Lise, malata di mente e affetta da ninfomania, e Albert che suggerisce all'investigatore di volgere la sua attenzione su Marcel Airaud, ingenuo e rozzo pescatore, padre del figlio della cameriera dell’albergo nonché amante di Lisa.
Uno di essi è il vero genitore di Albert mentre la paternità di Lise resta incerta: l’antica tragedia c’entra però poco con la banale quotidianità del nuovo fattaccio, la verità sul quale il commissario porta a galla seguendo una successione di complicati incroci interpersonali (si spiega pure la fissazione di Didine per il benestante vicino di casa) che rivelano come le situazioni siano ingarbugliate e come ognuno abbia qualche segreto da nascondere.
This is one of the most entertaining Maigret books I have read, and quite possibly because it was written later (1940) than the earlier novels (penned circa 1932) that I have been consuming.
Maigret finds himself exiled to the provinces because of some unspecified disciplinary problem, and he is greatly bored.
She alerts Maigret to the presence in the town judge's house of a dead body, which she has seen through her window.
In all truth, Maigret should have put her on retainer, because she feeds him clue after clue that helps him assemble a clear picture of the psychology of the townsfolk and the circumstances underlying seemingly disconnected events.
A sojourn away from Paris for some unspecified disciplinary reason leaves Maigret bored out in the sticks.
However, a fascinating mystery and the lure of the sea sends him off to investigate in the provincial L'Aiguillon with its mussel beds, wild marshland and variable tides.Having just delighted in the move to a focused detective series this is more like his earlier books; dependent on runners, telegrams and meeting people.it is interesting in the aspects of how the Chief Inspector works, assimilates clues, whether spoken or observed.As usual the reader is carried along with wonderful dialogue, uncertain plot developments and descriptive landscape.
With their help, he waits as the suspect seems ready to dispose of the body.A thoroughly good read and an interesting insight into one of my favourite all time detectives; and not just because he loves beer and sandwiches.
Another terrific offering from Simenon.
What separates this from other thriller/mystery offerings is the prose and atmosphere.
We're not told exactly why Maigret has been banished from Paris.
Although hooked from the start I thought I was reading a standard though excellent 'Maigret'.
However, in chapter 6, Simenon suddenly changes style and adds a delicious twist to the plot.
The prose becomes even more sparse: 'A brasserie.
A fat woman at the cash desk.
He always manages to stay one step ahead of the reader and keep you hooked right until the end.
Thankfully, there's lots more to read!
Maigret gets in trouble with his superiors and ends up in a small seaside town, as head inspector until the trouble dies down.Of course, he gets involved in a murder investigation and caught up in local, small town politics.As always, Simenon shows us a very real feeling world that may not be anymore real than Christie's or Flemming's England, but he it portrays so matter of factly that you are drawn in.
Although quite short, like many of his books, this is an excellent read.Maigret, out of favour, is banished to a small coastal town where he is out of place. As you would expect an unusual murder takes place and we are privy to Maigret's thought processes as he solves the crime.I am continually amazed at the quality of Simenon's books considering the rate at which he knocked them out. Highly recommended.
Maigret has been exiled to a sleepy French port - we have no idea why he is in disgrace (and apparently neither does Madam Maigret).
A local busybody tells him that she has seen a body in the village "Judge's" house, and bored he goes to investigate.
The Judge is caught red-handed trying to dispose of the body, and what then follows is a rather over complex tale involving mentally disturbed daughters, an ex-wife's infidelity, an old murder, jealous girlfriends, local goings on amongst the fishermen, and a bit more.
I find these Maigret novels disappointing. Simenon does not really care whether the read is able to find the solution. Half the story is in things he does that we are not informed of what action he asks for. The conversation of the judge with Maigret about his murder is not revealed until several events later. I will say that this story had a little more rationality than many of the others I have read and it has an acceptable ending
Simenon non sbaglia un colpo e riesce a raggiungere sempre livelli altissimi. Un solo appunto mi sento di muovergli: talvolta è troppo "esclamativo". Cioè, a mio modesto avviso, utilizza i punti esclamativi in maniera eccessiva, tanto che mi verrebbe la voglia di tirar fuori la matita rossa e correggerlo.Ecco, l'ho detto ;-)
I stopped and read some other books. Getting back to Simenon was such a pleasure!
3.5
On ne se trompe jamais avec Maigret.
I’m reading these new editions of the Maigret novels & enjoying them all. Gritty, fascinating cases & characters.
Good, solid "Maigret" novel. Keeps the reader guessing whodunit right up until the end.
The writing felt clumsy at times, especially in the middle third of the story, but at least the last third wrapped things up quite nicely.
I romanzi di Simenon con protagonista Maigret sono una sicurezza.Ne ho letti oltre 30 e mai una volta sono rimasto deluso.Arrivederci al prossimo....
Maigret, temporarily exiled to the country, is his usual enigmatic self when a hidden crime is brought to his attention.
Another gem by the master of mystery
I love Simenon's psychological novels the best, but if you can get the image and accent of BBC's Maigret out of your head, the Maigret mysteries are also intriguing.
Simenon is a master at creating a palpable world for Maigret in which to operate; this time the murder takes place in the very working-class French coastal town L'Aiguillon to which the detective has been exiled.
"He might never return to L'Aiguillon," Maigret thinks of himself.
"From now on, it would be like one of those distant landscapes, tiny but meticulously accurate, that you see in glass globes: a little world...People from far and wide" (161).
In the previous Maigret I read, the explanations were produced from behind the curtain, late in the book.
That was an early Maigret, and this apparently a prime one, so I hoped for better.
But it had some of the same problems.
The revelations of a background story, in the middle of the book, were better, to me.
At the end, I had the problem of not caring enough about those characters to care about the crime or its details.
I did enjoy some of Maigret's ways, though they are tied to this structure of arbitrary late revelations.
Lettura semplice e piacevole per staccare il cervello una serata. La storia è lineare; nulla di che, comunque. In verità, all'inizio mi ricordava il plot di "C'è un cadavere in biblioteca" di Agatha Christie, in cui, ugualmente, i proprietari si ritrovano in casa il cadavere di uno sconosciuto. Ma i due libri sono stati pubblicati nello stesso anno (e, anzi, Simenon scrisse questo racconto nel 1940). Quindi, niente scandalo ^^Ecco, sì, diciamo che più che un libro vero e proprio, lo definirei un racconto ben scritto, ma nulla di geniale...La recensione completa qui: http://thebooksblender.altervista.org...
Siamo in un piccolo paesino della Vandea, dipartimento marittimo della Loira, e l'indagine di Maigret si svolge tra sperdute lande piovose dove si affollano le baracche dei mitilicoltori. C’è acqua dappertutto: cade dal cielo, esonda dal mare, colma le paludi. Maigret naviga tra i modi rudi e reticenti degli abitanti per scoprire come il cadavere di un uomo sia misteriosamente apparso nella casa del giudice locale. Il clima umido e bagnato permea l’intero racconto concedegli un sapore salmastro che avviluppa il lettore più di quanto faccia la classicissima trama gialla.
Inspector Maigret is exiled from Paris to work in Lucon. No explanation is given, but it is hinted at that he offended some higher ups. This, however, seems more of a maneuver by the author to place Maigret in a location for a new case. An elderly couple comes to Maigret to report seeing a body inside the home of a local judge. They seem especially energetic about their personal investigations into this suspected murder. Lots of twists in the investigation, but not the strongest book in this series. And somehow at the end, Maigret is back in Paris again.
Ancora un Maigret tutto fatto di placida ma fulminea intuizione: l'istinto non impedisce al commissario di evitare un secondo omicidio (dopo il primo su cui stava già indagando) ma gli permette di giungere alla soluzionein pochissime mosse, uno scacco matto che si compie sotto gli occhi dinoi lettori senza darci il tempo di cogliere lo spostarsi delle pedine... http://ghettodeilettori.blogspot.com/...
Poor Maigret, dispatched to the French boondocks but dedicated as ever. More ingenious writing from Simenon, but it just did not flow as easily for me as did The Wine Merchant, The Hotel Majestic, and Vichy. Still clever, twisting, infuriating. I might be getting addicted to these books. Thank goodness they're NOT the size of a Michener or Rand.
