https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/207331.Pigeon_Post
This is my absolute favourite book in the “Swallows & Amazons” series.
The instant and succinctly apportioned guilt of assumed wrongdoing!A summer of camping and prospecting for gold in the Northern hills of England.
“Rope” is not simply rope, but is instead “Alpine Rope”; bicycles are “Dromedaries”, corned beef is elevated to “Pemmican”.Countless reviews must have been written about this book.
It’s a must-read for every child aged 8 – 15, not only to develop thinking and imagination; but also branch out and acquire the necessary practical and safety skills to enjoy the intoxicating pleasures and challenges of hill walking in the wilder parts of Britain.
A life that was about to disappear - and if you think that John and Roger are 12 (or 13) and 9 (or 10?) and Dick between those ages in these books, you realise that not only is it a childhood that will come to an abrupt and awful end - they are all old enough to be seriously involved in that war.There is no overshadowing of that in the writing, of course Ransome, along with many others of the time, could probably see it coming so the story remains light and interesting simply for what it is.
This story has the highest tension of all of them all so far, with the three crews in the penultimate few chapters facing and battling a real danger, the fear of which has been hovering for the whole fortnight.
This story is a great example of children negotiating the requirements of adults while pursuing their own goals.
While reading, I think often of the type of adults these children would have become, and wish that they had been real people so they could have gone into the world and contributed to it, which there is no doubt they would have done.
I found this book in Emily's room. Do you remember it? It is a lark. These English kids on summer holiday go on crazy adventures with little or no parental supervision. Little Roger wants to climb into an old collapsing mine shaft? OK dear, just be home in time for dinner, etc. In this one they "mine for gold". The part where they describe the inventions they make is actually pretty cool. THese are old childrens books - this one from 1936.
B - LDPlaceholder
They all have their moments and they are all beautifully drawn (in the literal sense, not the pictorial one - I do like Ransome's drawings, they are charming, but they are not high in artistic merit).
None of the children is perfect but they are all likeable, and Ransome's ear for natural dialogue (adults as well as children) is spot on (my favourite line being the one about no more brain than a cheese, from Mrs Tyson; but Roger's 'She was afraid you might,' provides a second laugh-out-loud moment).
This book was written before 1950This story is about the 8 children in the Swallows & Amazons series who are imaginative and adventurous and love to go sailing and exploring the area around their summer holiday homes.
(hide spoiler)]I really like this book and all of the others I have read in the series.
I really liked the surprise at the ending.(view spoiler)[ The characters were waiting throughout the book for what they thought was an armadillo that their uncle was sending them.
It turned out that the armadillo that they thought had died on the voyage home, was actually squashy hat who was a friend of their uncle.
At this point in the adventures of the Swallows and Amazons, there are 8 kids involved from 3 families, and they are camping, prospecting for gold, making charcoal, smelting (if that's the right word), and attempting to create gold ingots.
Oh yes, and spying on adults, cozening parents, and generally laying waste to the countryside and the peace and quiet of Northern England.
It's splendid fun, and not an adult in sight.
These kids check in with their parents via carrier pigeon.
The adventures of these marvelous children seem as far from the present day as Ancient Romans.
These children make their own magic.
On "Masterpiece Mystery" recently, one of the characters said, "I'm more of an Arthur Ransome kind of girl." And I guess I am too.
Much as I enjoy fantasy (the background of one of the Inspector Lewis mysteries set in Oxford)I am even more drawn to the wholesome outdoor life detailed in Arthur Ransome's novels.
In this book the Swallows and Amazons, with Dick and Dorothea, camp in the hills of the Lake Country trying to find a gold mine.
There is a slight mystery, but the real fun lies in seeing how they manage camping on their own (as with everything else, they are competent campers!)
As a book written for children about children it is a lovely piece of work. I first read this as a child and again as an adult. The book is just what it says in the foreword, a piece of fiction based on the author's childhood holidays.As a wholesome book for children and a book for adults who don't want to have to analyse every letter of the writing but simply enjoy a classic piece of children's fiction, it is ideal. Don't expect this book to be anything other than that and you'll enjoy it I think.
Growing up the Swallows and Amazons series by Arthur Ransome was one of my favorite series. When I decided to re-read it as an adult I was worried that it would not stand the test of time. I was delighted to find that in general found it just as enjoyable now as I did as a child. The characters, writing style and adventures are great and I truly enjoyed the series.
Charming and quite different from the others in the series - really enjoyable.
A little dated now. Too many children and the idea of prospecting for gold I found a disagreeable preoccupation. Well written and evokes the 30s
Read in the mid eighties
Another adventurous tale of the eight children this time involving gold mining and homing pigeons. The kids figure out numerous technical problems on their own using materials at hand. The cave explorations and wild fire are exciting! Who needs adult supervision anyway?!!
It looks hopeless at first, but then Titty takes up dowsing, Roger finds a hidden cave filled with gold, and Squashy Hat, a mysterious gentleman staying at another nearby farm seems to be up to something, making him the perfect enemy.
Everything will be perfect, if only they can make a gold ingot to show Captain Flint when he returns from sea.I had really high expectations for Pigeon Post, both because it’s an award winner, and because it once again brings together all three main groups of characters in the Ransome universe - the Swallows, the Amazons, and the Ds. Unfortunately, this book has the slowest start of any of the Swallows and Amazons series.
There is very little sailing in this sixth instalment in Arthur Ransome’s marvellous series of books set in the early 1930s and featuring the Swallows and Amazons, together with the Ds. The Walker children and Dick and Dorothea Callum have made their way to the Lake District at the beginning of the summer holidays.
The Swallow is not yet available, however, and as the eight children would leave the Amazon heavily overcrowded they have decided instead to explore the High Topps, the moor land overlooking the lake.
Unlike many classics of British literature for children, these books don't involve any fantasy.
They are, rather, the down-to-earth adventures of a group of very resourceful children,usually taking place in the great outdoors.
The sailors come ashore for this book and go prospecting for gold in the hills and mountains of the Lake District of England.
Their nemesis throughout the book is the man they dub "Squashy Hat" and whom they suspect of trying to "jump" their gold claim.Ransome didn't begin writing these books until he was in his forties, when he moved to England's Lake District.
Classics are what his books have become and although they are now treated as historical fiction by many people kids love them and read them.
'Pigeon Post' is a delight.
I shared it with my 8 year old grandson this summer and he loved every minute of it, even sneaking the book to read under the bedcovers.
He is now badgering his mother to let him go to the Lake District to go sailing on one of the Arthur Ransome Society experditions.Classics indeed.
Good writing and a good story never stop being good reading.
There was also an enjoyable underground adventure that made me think of King Solomon's Mines.The only real problem I had with this book was that I know nothing about the process of panning for gold or charcoal burning, so when the kids were trying to (as I understand it) extract gold from rocks, I just had to accept this chemistry lesson the book was giving me, and there seemed to be a lot of this in the second half.But the story did at least have a neat twist that amused me.
Swallows, Amazons, and "the D's" (Dick and Dorothea) are determined to find gold in the hills above their lake before Captain Flint returns from South America.
The young mining company begin camping up in the fells and searching old caves for gold, while a severe drought has the locals worried about potential fires.
The children have three homing pigeons that are trained to take messages from their camp back to Mrs. Blackett, letting her know the progress of the fledgling mining company.
I especially love Dick in this sixth volume.
It is #6 in the "Swallows and Amazon" series.
What a fun thing to find them again, and read them with new eyes and return to those thrilling days of yesteryear when the Walker children ran about the Lake District of England!This book picks up back in the Lake District with the Swallows and the Amazons (Walker children and Blackett sisters) and the D's (Dick and Dorthea).
The children this time turn their energies to mining for gold, all so that Uncle Jim (aka Captain Flint) will then have time to join them in some of their adventures.
As usual, the children embark on a holiday adventure that is part make-believe, part real (orchestrated by Nancy, of course), this time involving gold mining.
I laughed out loud many times, usually thanks to Nancy or Roger.
There are also messenger pigeons named after Greek authors, an armadillo named Timothy, and an excellent nemesis with mysterious intentions.As usual with these books, there is some racial terminology that would be considered derogatory or inappropriate today (eg the term "Hottentots" is used in the chapter "Disaster", as an uncomfortable description of the children's charcoal-smeared faces).
The mining focus allows Dick, the science specialist of the group, to star, but, of course, all the children participate and Titty and Roger each contribute in key stages of the plot (Titty in the essential quest for water and Roger in the quest for a mine.)The book has an especially slow start, but persistent readers will be rewarded with more danger and excitement in the later chapters than the beginning might suggest.
As a child these were my favourite books, I loved stories of adventure and my family holidayed in the English Lake District where these books are set so I knew the places they visited.Whilst on holiday I would imagine meeting the Swallows and Amazons on every lake.
At school my friends and I would play Swallows and Amazons.
My best friend Sarah and I, being the only ones who were truly obsessed by the books would take charge and we would, of course, be the Amazons.
Ransome doesn't talk down to children at all; these books are great reads for grownups also.
The last book, "Coot Club", was about only the children called The D's; in this book, all the main characters have returned and are back in England's Lake District in the 1930's.
The story is unhurried and full of detail, but remains entirely engrossing.
Ransome has a great feel and respect for the imaginations of children, and their creativity and inquisitiveness.
In all these books, it's not only fun to read a good story about great characters, but also to get a glimpse of life in another country in another century.
This is the best one yet in the series! In this one, the Walkers, the Blacketts, and the Callums go mining in old workings in the hills near Beckfoot (where the Blacketts reside). Logan is very keen on the idea of mining, although it certainly sounds like a lot of work. The kids crush the raw ore, pan it, build a blast furnace, and smelt it. They also use homing pigeons to communicate with Mrs. Blackett while they are staying near the mine area. Lots of fun details of things kids are no longer allowed to do.
For those who equate the Swallows & Amazons series with largely water-borne adventures on lakes and rivers this book may initially seem disappointing as the action tales place on land. However Arthur Ransome crafts a joyful story of children prospecting for hidden gold in the Lake District. There is a mysterious stranger, abandoned mines and a landscape parched and tinder dry in a summer heatwave. The title refers to the method the kids use to communicate with the 'natives'. i.e. adults. Great fun from a bygone age.
Another excellent Arthur Ransome book. This one starts out more slowly than Peter Duck. And it gets a bit tedious in the middle, but it becomes very interesting and exciting at the end. A worthy read for those interested in children's literature. The Swallows, Amazons and D's go searching and mining for gold to try to keep Captain Flint near home. And they find . . . well--read it and find out--it's worth it.
I found and read the Swallows and Amazons series in my early 20s. I am only sorry I did not find them earlier. Stories of the family's summer adventures are beautifully written, and encourage responsible and creative living. Self reliance, intelligent reasoning skills, and strong imagination with these children provide an excellent backdrop for this series of books, as well as strong roll-models for any youngsters reading them.
