https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/297792.The_Slippery_Slope
this one drifts close to 2*.The book opens with a double whammy of the oft-mentioned bad science combined with the not infrequent impossible-to-visualise scene.The Mortmain Mountains are bizarrely cube-shaped and have the expected vast vertical cliffs...
And the broader question about how a car is driven to the top of the tallest such mountain...Anyhow - this hurtling caravan is stopped with drag chute and by pouring a sticky combination of cooking ingredients on the wheels...
And we get to see the VFD head-quarters, albeit in reduced circumstances.The Sugar Bowl features - the ownership of which become the driving force behind much of the remaining series.Um..
UPDATE: 19/Jan/2017Ignore everything I said before, I like this book more now that I've finished the entire series. 26/Dec/2016This series is REALLY dragging out. I'm so close to finishing it and discovering what everything means! BTW me giving a bunch of these books 3 & 2 stars does not me I don't like them.
3.75* these kids really can't catch a break, can they?...
I liked this one more than I thought I would!! Some of these books were starting to be a little redundant and it was getting kind of old :P But I liked this one a lot! We got to meet a certain new character and I was really happy about that person being introduced :D I can't say who because of spoilers lol It's hard to believe though that I only have three more books left in this series and then I am done!
Este ha estado súper guay y me encanta que por fin se estén empezando a descubrir COSAS. He muerto un poquito con la escena en la que se dan cuenta de que Sunny ya no es un bebé. Y ay, que después de tantos libros le tengo muchísimo cariño a los Baudelaire. Ya sólo tres libros más y se acabó. :(
This one was funny and thrilling in parts though it did lag a bit for me and I don't know why. It took me a few days to get through this one. I'm glad we know who that scout really was and we've run into more mysteries. I'm interested to see how the last three books wrap all of this up. Now starting The Grim Grotto! :)- Richard
While this book did lag for me a bit at the beginning, once it got going it was fantastic!
There's a lot of exciting reveals and discoveries that really makes this one of the more interesting books of the lot and starts to set up the end of the series.
I think my favourite part though would have to be the immense growth we see in Sunny throughout the book.
It's where she starts to really become a child rather than a baby.
As per usual with this series, I really loved this book and can't wait to get started on the next in the series!
My new favourite in the series. 💙10 down, only 3 more to go!
Audiobook. Narrator Tim Curry. Yes, Tim Curry gets 100 stars!!! Woo-hoo! Hurray!!! And....I love his "evil chuckle". Makes my "evil chuckle" come out and play. Lol Mr. Curry's pronunciation of Count Olaf is a tad bit different than my pronunciation. His: O'Laugh. Mine: Ol' Off. His seems to be more appropriate. You can see how the author improved his stories. A Series of Unfortunate Events now seems more like a long continuous adventure. During the first four novels, it felt more like little "Unfortunate Events" with no cohesion. Onward ho.....
AGORA SIM!!!!!! Aaaaaaaaaaaaah
Snicket’s tone throughout is apologetic, sincere and matter-of-fact as he relates the unfortunate events in the children’s lives; his imaginative and even surreptitiously educational style will hold much appeal for younger readers, as will the persistent silliness of adults.
As always, the alliterative titles are delightful and Brett Helquist provides some wonderfully evocative illustrations.After seemingly marking time for the last few books, finally, there are some developments that begin to unravel the mystery of the fate of the Baudelaire parents, and an unexpected ally assists Violet and Klaus as they try to rescue Sunny.

The humour in this book is so dark and twisted and I LOVE it!
Lemony Snicket wrote 13 terrific books in a row, and it's accurate to say they're splendid for all ages.
As if they weren't busy enough just managing to survive, the Baudelaires are now troubled by a recurring, critical question: How do you tell the difference between a good guy and a bad guy?The two older Baudelaire siblings have to rescue their younger sister Sunny from the clutches of Count Olaf and his cohorts.
The question won't go away: How can you call yourself a good person when your actions mirror those of your enemy?Snicket manages to engage readers on this issue without being the least bit ham-handed.
I don't know why, but this one has always been my favorite.
100% going to put "The World is Quiet Here" on the wall of my future library. 📚💕
Mini Review: These last few are just getting better and better! The stories are different, there's more suspense, and I'm just overall more interested. Really excited to be nearing the end!
"In order to spare you any further repulsion, it would be best not to mention any of the unpleasant details of this story, particularly a secret message, a toboggan, a deceitful trap, a swarm of snow gnats, a scheming villain, a troupe of organized youngsters, a covered casserole dish, and a surprising survivor of a terrible fire."A SERIES OF UNFORTUNATE EVENTS number ten picks up at the point of the last book's cliffhanger.
Finished this 11 minutes after cramathon ended... what's the point. I liked this one. I love that the pieces are falling together. I am so excited to finally see how this story ends. I hate that I have read 12/13 of these books.. I'm almost there..
i kinda just want to skip to the last book.that's not a good sign.
The story becomes better and better! I also love the fact that Sunny grows older book after book.
I stumbled a bit between book 6 and 8 as these were less dynamic and did not help the reader to understand enough about the underlying mystery of what was happening to the Beaudelaire orphans and why.
Introducing a new villain did not justify a whole book (as with book 6) and so my continuing to read the series was more a bloody-minded drive to finish - rather than out of interest.
The swashbuckling, action packed The Slippery Slope is full of great one-liners and gags that will keep any reader interested.
Proceed with caution ;)So the things I liked about this one are:- Sunny's time to shine.
This really gives us a chance to see what she can do on her own, and how much she has grown up throughout the books- The return of a character "from the dead", won't say who though.
Also the return of a couple of other characters from previous books- The whole VFD thing.
It really makes you want to find outBut yeah I enjoyed this book on the whole, those were just some things I really liked :)
So many mysteries. I can't wait until I finally get to the end and know all the answers.
so since Mr. Lemony Snicket is always saying to put these books down and say go read something else, I'm posting the sexy eye roll gif and found out it's an actor names Marlon Brando and dang was he good looking!
so taking Lemony Snicket's advice and see or read something better, I'm also putting two great gifs of Marlon eating and some girl trying to kiss him while he's into his food hahaha (which describes my love life right now.....
*heart eye emoji*)so just like Lemony Snicket saying random things, here's my random gifs of a good looking Marlon Brando as promised......SEXY EYE ROLL(I know, this review is weird and different and dumb but so are these books.......
ESTE FUE EL MEJOR DE LA SERIE HASTA AHORA.Creo que ningún libro de los anteriores tuvo tanto misterio ni me resultó tan adictivo como este.
Dio tantas respuestas a preguntas que nos veníamos haciendo desde los anteriores, pero abrió muchas otras.
Las nuevas conexiones entre tantos hechos sospechosos, el nuevo personaje al que creían muerto, las aproximaciones a la verdad, el estar cada vez más cerca de la respuesta a todas las preguntas...
fue demasiado para un solo libro, pero me encantó.
Sólo quedan tres libros para el final, todo está tomando forma, cada vez falta menos...Espero estar preparada para lo que sigue.
"Fate is like a strange, unpopular restaurant, filled with odd waiters who bring you things you never asked for and don't always like."The Slippery Slope finally brings us to the mysterious V.F.D. headquarters, but only leave us with more questions than answers. I'm starting to get the feeling that by the end of the series all my questions won't be answered. I'm keeping my fingers crossed that I'll get the answers soon!Full series review: https://todaysechos.wordpress.com/201...
What do five stars mean anymore, I don't even know. But this one was so, so much better than the previous book -- now we're finally getting into lots more worldbuilding and exposition about what's going on, shit is even getting real with Lemony Snicket's side-narrative (!!!), Sunny is showing character development(!), the white-faced women defected (!!), and (view spoiler)[QUIGLEY QUAGMIRE, AND QUIGLEY/VIOLET, AND AHHH (hide spoiler)]. So many amazing things are happening now!!Hotel Denouement, my body is fucking ready.
It's very easy to think that, in order to beat the bad guys, you must stoop to their level and fight fire with fire. However, that just causes everything to go up in flames and, as the Baudelaire's (and a special friend) showed us, there are ways to fight back that don't require you to take up the cloak of villainy.
From Quigley, to the meaning of VFD, to the return of Carmelita Spats, this book was a ride.
Sunny separated from her siblings was a very interesting narrative.
Poor Sunny was taken hostage and forced to cook for the monster that is Count Olaf and his equally terrible theatre troupe.
Sunny Baudelaire is the bravest little girl (not a baby.) Not only do we learn more about the history of VFD and its very meaning in this book, but we also learn more about some of the characters, especially Count Olaf’s troupe.
The foreshadowing in this book is once again, amazing.
