https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/930199.Hag_s_Nook
The first in Carr's series featuring Dr. Gideon Fell, Hag's Nook centers on the Starberth family, who have owned and operated a prison for centuries.
The property is entailed, meaning that the oldest son will officially inherit, but first he must go through a rather bizarre ritual.
The solving of the case is ingenious -- I must admit to being surprised at the end.
In fact, that's the best part of this book -- the unraveling of an ingenious criminal.
If you're into Golden Age mysteries, or if you want to try your hand at Carr's work, this would be a fine place to start.

Add to this combination a mystery redolent to Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes - The Musgrave Ritual, with it's cryptic family doggerel, hidden treasure, and sinister murderer in plain sight, and you're set for a highly atmospheric and entertaining whodunnit from the Golden Age.Only it wasn't.Oh, the story had it's moments, and Carr does have a knack for delivering some shivery, creepy visuals.
But in the end, the mind-bending logistics of how the murder was committed, and the flat, abrupt and unsatisfying ending overshadowed any previous enjoyment I had reading the story.I will still try another Carr mystery, because I enjoy Golden Age mysteries and Carr's writing is good.
Then they all seemed to die of broken necks, just like their charges.This is the first Dr. Fell book.
In addition, we meet young Rampole, a young American, who will be either studying or working for/with Dr. Fell.
He does figure prominently in the other Dr. Fell books that I have read.
We don't learn too much about cousin Herbert except that he is a bit of a dullard.The ritual requires that the male heir enter the now deserted prison (except for rats) and spend an hour in the Governor's Room, opening a safe and reading some documents.
Family tradition demands that the eldest Starberth men spend an hour alone in the Governor's Room on their twenty-fifth birthday...a room overlooking the Hag's Nook, near which many Starberths have met their deaths.Enter series character Gideon Fell, a lexicographer whose study windows look out at the prison.
The true test of suspense is what you remember days and weeks later, and the scenes at the Hag's Nook and the journals of Anthony Starberth are still in my memory because of Carr's evocative writing.I look forward to adventuring with Dr. Fell again soon!
Ably assisted of course by an eccentric retired academic, the local Rector, and a visiting young American romantically smitten with the murder victim's sister.The plot of Hag's Nook is convoluted, preposterous, contrived and hugely enjoyable.
In this first of the series Carr's hero, Dr Gideon Fell, takes an almost secondary role to the young American romantic lead; of course the real mystery is why this well-educated though naive chap falls so totally for a young lady descended from a family sinisterly bonkers for the last six generations.
***1/2.The plot of this mystery is a little disjointed, but that’s not what makes it interesting.
It is the author’s first novel featuring Dr. Gideon Fell.
Most Carr fans seek out the Fell books over his other series characters, they are just that more interesting.
Normally, when readers talk about the Golden Age of Mystery they are referring to those novels written during the 1930s and the early 1940s.
This novel is not the best of the Gideon Fell series, but it still stands head and shoulders above much of what we encounter today on the best-seller lists.
Dr. Gideon Fell is a lexicographer, steeped in the history and traditions of England -- and seemingly, just about everything else.
This only adds to Fell's suspicions about an earlier family death, one he has posited was murder rather than accidental.Fell is aided in his quest by a young American lad who has come to visit Chatterham and the Fells.There is plenty of atmosphere here.
The reader gets to know the American lad quite well; while Fell is described and drives much of the action of the story, he is less fully fleshed-out.
Tad Rampole è giovane, ma non sprovveduto.Sono una bella coppia investigativa e, oltre a loro, a rendere accattivante questo giallo è il modo in cui viene condotta l’indagine.
Was pumped up to find that I finally was reading the first of the Gideon Fell mysteries.
This one was really fun, as it had an air of “haunting” all about it.
And that styling of a story steeped in ghost tale made the reading a bit more colorful and “fun.”A young American on a trip to Europe comes to stay with Gideon Fell, and ends up getting pulled into a murder mystery right away.
A fun lively story, perfect length for quick summer reading!
Hag's Nook Hag's Nook by John Carr5.0 out of 5 stars come closer dear reader...a mystery awaits., September 7, 2013 This review is from: Hag's Nook "Hag's Nook" the introduction to Dr. Gideon Fell-master of the locked room mysteries.John Dickson Carr AKA Carter is an author any reader or writer of mysteries should be respectfully aware of.
Carr's books on Dr. Gideon Fell were written during the golden age of mysteries (1930's-60's) and have stood the test of time.This masterfully written story centers on a legend or a curse against the Starberth family of Chatterham and their ghastly involvement in the hangings at that prison.
John Dickson Carr brings Chesterton (back) to life as Dr. Fell in Hag's Nook and several other novels that followed.
Dickson Carr was capable of some excellent writing, though like other mystery authors (notably Agatha Christie) his work suffered as a result of cranking out too many books too quickly.
Hag's Nook offers up some lovely runs of description, like this one:"In this library everything looked old and solid and conventional; there was a globe-map which nobody ever spun, rows of accepted authors which nobody ever read, and above the mantelpiece a large mounted swordfish which (you were convinced) nobody had ever caught.
And what author starts a story describing a mans den when plainly the first event in the story is a chance bumping into a woman on a train station platform.
Its almost as if the story occurs offscreen so to speak to the characters tangential thoughts and feelings.I have read hundreds and hundreds of books, high claimed authors, and hacks.
This thing is in a class by itself.THAT having been said the particulars of the mystery (who killed such and such and whats in the special box) was interesting....but admittedly I ALMOST put it down never to return.
This was my first John Dickson Carr. I love between-the-wars mysteries and I'm not sure how I've missed him. This book has a lot of the aspects that I love about that time period but it was a bit more melodramatic than I would have liked. I have a few more of his books waiting in the wings though and I'm looking forward to exploring his works.
The prison's land belongs to the Starbert family -- whose eldest sons much each spend an hour in the prison's eerie 'Governor's Room' to inherit the family fortune.Rampole is especially interest in the family, having met you and beautiful Dorothy Starberth on the train from London.
He readily agrees when Fell and the local reverend, Thomas Saunders, ask him to accompany them as they watch and wait for 'his hour' in the prison.
Will his turn come tonight?'~~front & back flapsThe prison is where they used to hang witches (& convicts), and the Starberth family curse is that each heir dies of a broken neck.
'Hag's Nook' marks the first appearance of John Dickson Carr's iconic detective Dr. Gideon Fell.
The Starberth family has traditionally been the wardens of Chatterham prison, where inmates were frequently hanged at Hag's Nook.
The prison has long since been abandoned, but it is still the tradition that the male heir spends the night of his 25th birthday in the governor's office overlooking Hag's Nook.
It is up to Dr Fell to separate fact from superstition in solving the circumstances behind Martin Starberth's death.Although John Dickson Carr is famous for so-called 'locked room mysteries', he is also noted for the seemingly supernatural circumstances of his mysteries.
Chatterton, the small rural village where the Starberth and Fells live, is dominated by the ruins of a massive 17th-century prison set atop a crooked hill where witches were once hung (the "Hag's Nook").
They can ensure that David enters alone and that no one approaches the ruined dungeon, and they can intervene in the case of emergency.All goes well -- until David's light is suddenly goes out 10 minutes before the ordel is to end, and his broken body found in the well at the base of Chatterton Prison.John Dickson Carr is often described as a simple mystery writer, but his novels are really horror-mysteries.
The pages were falling out as I read.I have read other classics from Carrl; this one isn't the best of them, but does convey the same eerie atmosphere, and improbable murders.
The only point I think is not convincing is explanation of why the murderer did not flee for 3 years.
Carr tried to give an explanation, but still I think if I were the murderer, I would not wait around and would flee and assume a different identity yet again.
I still think the Three Coffins and He Who Whispers are the best Carrs.
I've read many of his books long ago and always appreciated his 'locked room' resolutions.
This time the story took place at an old prison, long shut down.
I loved the way he described how the building looked at night.The story was pretty good though I found it hard to read.
Not sure why - maybe the expressions from when this book was written to this day are completely different but I was scratching my head at some of the phrases he used.
Still, it was a good story and I will read more of his stories as I find them.
The novel has a number of JDC trademarks: the links with history, the love story, the possible ghosts that in the end are almost explained away - and the neat, clever plot.One of the things I love about JDC, in passing, is the recreation of an England that was contemporary to him but is a lost world now.
This has some of that quality in its village and the descriptions of rural England.Thesis: the Golden Age murder plots that would be ruined by the mobile phone ...
I re-read this book now and it's simply brilliant. I loved it even more than the first time around. Hag's Nook is the first novel where the larger than life Gideon Fell appeared and also one of the best. The portrayal of the old Anthony, the description of the cursed prison and of the Hag's Nook itself are chilling and far scarier than any horror movie I've seen (and I have seen quite a few).
The first Dr. Fell. An atmospheric tale with a decent mystery. However, it also revealed to me the problems that I have with Carr. Except for The Burning Court, which I loved, and He Who Whispers, which I hated, I find it difficult to get involved with his characters. In fact, the character that I liked the most in this novel was that of Mrs. Fell. I hope to read more of her.
Another "Golden Age" mystery. It was OK. Although many commentators put Carr in the same category (or just below) Christie, Sayers and Allingham, I'm not ready to stock up on the rest of this series. Perhaps Gideon Fell's character gets developed better as time goes on.
It's an enjoyable combination of Gothic thriller in the style of Edgar Wallace and cozy detective novel in the British tradition of the Golden Age of Detection (the author is American, but he's clearly an anglophile).
It centers on a curse against the Starberth family of Chatterham and their ghastly involvement in the hangings at that prison.
Since then, a family ritual has to be followed by the male heir, and the deaths have returned.
It all started back in 1797 when Anthony Starberth was Governor of Chatterham Prison followed by his descendent, Martin Starberth in 1821.
They instituted these merciless hangings without remorse which according to legend brought a curse on the Starberth family.
Hags nook is the first outing for Dr. Gideon Fell but not for JD Carr.So I was expecting a somewhat weak effort than usual from the master of locked room mysteries but it's not a weak effort by any means .The traditional ritual of the Starberth's was very similar to the Campion no.
I noted he was an American crime-detective novelist with his first books dating back to the early 1930's and spanning over 40 years.
Although a fan of the murder mystery genre, I tend to prefer English/British authors so didn’t take much notice of his books.
All the books (I think) of the Dr. Gideon Fell series are based in England and are written in a very English style, much like Agatha Christie, but much better in my humble opinion.
Therefore, if you like a good old fashioned murder mystery, written early to mid 20th century then this is the book for you.
'Hag's Nook' by John Dickson Carr was written in 1933 and as a Gothic thriller it still holds it own with current books in this genre. I loved the plot with its macabre overtone, the characters, calculating who the murderer was, and the easy reading style. Best of all were the evocative descriptions of the countryside - all mist and clouds and rain and gloom and slivers of moonlight. Entertaining.
El Doctor Fell, el rey de los cuartos cerrados, hace su primera aparición en esta novela con tintes sobrenaturales a priori que no afectan al resultado de la historia. Ya llevo varios libros de J.D. Carr a las espaldas y me sigue gustando, aunque recomiendo leerlos teniendo en cuenta que estos misterios, únicos en su época, pueden resultar fáciles de intuir. Es lo que tienen las obras fundacionales.Tan recomendable como El Hombre Hueco, su novela más famosa
It started slow.....but took off about half way through and ended with a flourish...an interesting beginning to the Dr. Gideon Fell series.
A good Carr. And that is good. Every person who likes intelligent puzzle mysteries should read his books. I would say this is one of the better.
