https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17029526-never-too-far
btw, The book was amazing but at the same time it was not..Rush+Blaire+Sex = *woot woot* HOT!!The dual pov always wins my heart over.
I hope she takes her time with the third book for Rush and Blaire and gives us another 5 Star book :DI am going to re-read this book this week itself because it was too fucking short for my liking and I am pretty sad/mad/pissed/unhappy.When I saw the book had come out hours early I was all..
(view spoiler)[ Why is that when Nan was in an accident, you're ready to let go of Blaire just like that?
I mean, WTF was that "twist?" They've been dealing with that shit since book 1 through halfway of book 2, and then you're gonna reveal that (view spoiler)[ Nan isn't really Blaire's dad's daughter?!
(hide spoiler)] While reading that part, I was just shaking my head, like seriously?
(view spoiler)[ Like Nan possibly redeeming herself or something  (hide spoiler)] If you're gonna end it that way, at least give us an epilogue.
While reading this, I'm rooting for Woods and Blaire as a couple as well.
Anything, Blaire, just to be near you… You need me, I’m there.”  For the most part I really liked the way he handled things – I mean, sure he kept messing up and I wanted to grab him by the shoulders and shake him a few times but his mistakes were mostly understandable, and let me tell you, that man knew how to grovel.
Review posted at:  Swept Away By Romance 2 1/2 starsI had such high hopes for this book but ultimately felt let down.
They felt robbed of the essence that made them unique and intriguing in the first story.
Unlike the first book, its sequel felt contrived and somewhat manufactured.
I felt the true star of this story was Wood.
I'm very much looking forward to reading his book.
Note: I heard there will be another book for Rush and Blaire.
They're a fabulous way for authors to give their readers more of the characters they want and love while not jeopardizing the authenticity of their story.
So Readers,do you know who's grinning like a fool right now???Yup,that's me!!!Sorry,can't help it.Because of Rushhhhhh....... Yeah,yeah, I know he worships Blaire.But a girl can dream,right?? Enough said, now about this story....--------------------------------------------------------- "He wasn't what sent me running.He was what made me want to stay." Warning - Please proceed only if you have read the 1st book of this series...Fallen Too Far.This book starts where Fallen Too Far left off.....Wit
But it does get a bit tiring after sometime.But it's okay.I still enjoyed it.And the sweet moments made up for it!!The ending was sooooo cute.I loved it.But I wanted more.Good news,I think everyone knows it by now,still....we're getting a third book!!!!----------------------------------------------------Okay one more thing.....I STILL HATE NAN!!!She is a brat and I do not mean it in a good way.She's dumb and quite frankly still a bitch.What the hell is up with Grant????
“She’s amazing. No… she’s perfect. Everything about her is fucking perfect...I don’t just love her, she owns me. Completely. I'd do anything for her.”  [image error]Never Too Far picks up exactly where we left Blaire in Fallen Too Far. She staying at Granny Q’s house with her ex-boyfriend Cain in Alabama. We soon find out that she is expecting and has no plans of rekindling her relationship with Cain but is at a loss as to what to do next. Blaire visits her mom and sister at the cemetery and sh
She is a great friend and makes Blaire an offer that she can’t refuse.Blaire is secure in her plan to keep Rush as a friend even though she loves him.
Nan remains the bitchy redheaded sister who is hell bent on squashing Blaire only this time Rush is having none of it.
He is one hot man in love!Grant switches sides one to many times for me in this book.
He protects Blaire throughout this book make no mistake he loves her but from the get go does the right thing by her.
Rush and Blaire were very HOT and STEAMY and the book left me very happy!!
Some things in that book just happened a little too fast and if I'm going to be honest here, Rush's "sweet Blaire" started to creep me out a little.
Thank God!!I'm pretty sure you didn't mean for the, "These titties are mine..." comment to be funny, but I was in tears.
I hope we get more of Blaire and Rush in the other books because I'm pretty sure I wasn't ready for it to end.
Where in the hell was my epilogue ;-)I may have started out riding the fence with this series, but you yanked me over and smacked some sense into me.
Update Feb 27 Abbi said she would write a book 3 if we got Never Too Far to #1 on Amazon.
I love Rush and Blaire so much and I'm already excited for book 3 even though I haven't read book 2 yet.
Excuse me while I spent the next two days like this (until I get my copy) Update Feb 26 I love how the book has been out for less that 24 hours and there are already 1000+ ratings.
Update Jan 24  SourceThere are going to be three, 3, tres, trois books from the Too Far series coming out this year!
“No man has ever loved a woman as much as I love you. Nothing will ever come before you.”  Rarely does a sequel to a book you’ve loved and re-read more times than you wish to admit ever live up to its high expectations – you’re afraid the plotline would be thin, the characters taken in a direction you don’t wish them to be taken, the overall ‘feeling’ of the book not as intensely or consistently pieced together. Well, you have absolutely no reason to fear any of that when it comes to this book
Rarely does a sequel to a book you’ve loved and re-read more times than you wish to admit ever live up to its high expectations – you’re afraid the plotline would be thin, the characters taken in a direction you don’t wish them to be taken, the overall ‘feeling’ of the book not as intensely or consistently pieced together.
Blaire has run away from Rosemary and from the man she loves, and is hoping to find solace in the familiarity of her home town.
Blaire’s return has given Rush hope, but he is fearful of scaring Blaire off and making her run away from him again.
(hide spoiler)]Her best friend Bethy missed her and she is visiting her in Alabama , in order to make up her mind and make her return to Rosemary.After an incident,she has to go to Rosemary and face Rush.RushWe are introduced a new version of this guy.He is not a bad boy anymore...Abbi Glines we liked that douche bag .I cant argue I have a thing for broken hearted guys but seeing Rush like that didn't affect me at all.Fortunatelly , this bad boy returned at the second half of the book but then I was starting getting irritated by Blaire.Jesus sweetheart , you were TOO jealous!WoodsHe supported Blaire and he completely understood that he shouldt try again with her because her heart belong to Rush.NanShe is awful!I'm afraid that if she ever bites her tongue , she will die from her own venom.Some good quotes“No. One.
Towards the middle of the book, I wasn't really liking it, I got tired of the ups and downs. However, the ending totally redeemed it for me.
Thank goodness for the shining stars of the book: Bethy, Woods and Grant.
I loved when Bethy showed up in the cemetery and was always there for Blaire.
That didn't mean she didn't show her some tough love when she needed it!
Yea, maybe I'm just hoping but it doesn't sound like this is the end of Rush and Blaire.
I'm sure we will get some of them in Woods' and Grant's books but I'm keeping my fingers crossed for another Rush and Blaire.
I can’t pretend I’m not f*cking thrilled you’re standing in my house right now.”♥ “I will do anything.
I can’t think about anything else.
Okay. Okay okay. Deep breath. March 12. That's not so bad. I can do that. Oh my god, I hope I can do that!! Almost 4 more months...~~~~~~Whoop! Feb 26! :D
SPOILER FREE REVIEW -mature content reader discretion is advised.4 STARS out of 5Genre: New Adult RomanceDid I love this book?  HELL YES !!That first chapter... WHOA!  Casting  -My Rush and Blaire “She’s amazing. No… she’s perfect. Everything about her is fucking perfect,”  I said aloud then shifted my gaze back to Meg.  “I don’t just love her, she owns me. Completely. I’d do anything for her.”  'I couldn’t let myself believe he was my happily ever after. I was smarter than that.' The book start
SPOILER FREE REVIEW -mature content reader discretion is advised.4 STARS out of 5Genre: New Adult RomanceDid I love this book?
Blaire is trying to move on with her life and being with Rush is not part of the plan.There is just one problem.
She knows that she will have to see Rush and on top of that deal with Nan. But right now she does not care..
Blaire can't keeping fighting love.
He proves that he loves her.
“I know you love her.
LOVE LOVE LOVE LOVE LOVED THIS ONE !! ♥♥♥♥♥  Never Too Far picks 3 weeks after Rush and Blaire said goodbye to each other ( my heart still hearts from that goodbye) and both Blaire and Rush are Miserable ( so am I since they are not together..). Blaire felt betrayed by Rush because he withheld information from her about her dad, mom, and Nan.. Blaire has gone back to Sweet Home Alabama to nurse her wounds.. then she gets a bomb dropped on her..  Blaire ends up going back to Florida where Rush i
Blaire felt betrayed by Rush because he withheld information from her about her dad, mom, and Nan..
Blaire ends up going back to Florida where Rush is and the only friends she has..
she still loves Rush and she's going to need him, but she's determined to keep him at a distance.
Rush screws up constantly!!!
Through all of Rush's screw ups though..
and he and Blaire both needed each other so badly.
it totally lived up to the hype!My ONLY fault with this book is there was NO F'KING EPILOGUE!!!!
ABBI IS MAKING ANOTHER BOOK FOR RUSH AND BLAIRE!!!The End
I loved this story, but then again I love Rush and Blaire (notice I put him first).
Blaire was anything but innocent given her life experiences, and Rush wasn’t so much a bad boy, as a boy with a heart, who was craving the love he never had, but always gave away.
I loved the way Rush cared for Blaire, how protective he was, the little ways he showed his love for her.
However, sprinkle a little Rush Finlay on there, and suddenly, the experience becomes a lot more enjoyable.The sex was seriously hot.
I loved how he looked after Blaire.
4 Crush-On-Rush (but kinda mad at him) Stars"You only deserve what you make yourself worthy of.
She had Rush and she had a chance in a new life.But the unexpected truth of her parents' past and Nan, the secret all knew but no one bothered to share with her, has her running away, hurt, confused and pregnant.
Everything about her is fucking perfect,” I said aloud then shifted my gaze back to Meg.
I swear to God, by the end of the book I wanted to throttle Rush, smother him with kisses, smack him and love him to death...
5 Amazing Rush Crush Stars!!!  “I don’t just love her, she owns me. Completely. I’d do anything for her.”  I have been waiting for this sequel for almost 5 months... For those of you who have read Fallen Too Far, you know how brutal the cliffhanger was. Everything was a mess. I was heartbroken. I was so excited to read this one, too hopefully see everything come together. And I LOVED IT! RUSH “I’ll be whatever you allow me to be, Blaire. Just do’t shut me out again. Please.”BLAIRE I needed for
Rush is desperate and hopeless without Blaire.
When Rush finds out Blaire is back for a while, he will do anything to get her back and keep her with him.
After a while, Blaire cannot resist Rush Finlay.
Rush is so in love and willing to do anything for Blaire.
I am so excited about Woods book :D He was really great, there for Blaire in the way she needed him without being pushy.
Bethy is just an all around great friend to Blaire, plus she is a hoot!
The wait just about killed me but boy was it worth the wait. I freaking loved it. I want Woods and Grants story's now please!!!
"It had been three weeks, four days and twelve hours since I’d seen her." ~Rush(Hilarious, how he knows the exact time since he last saw her.)It tells both the POV of both Rush and Blaire's which I totally love.I both love and hate how the story goes in terms on how their relationship progressed, still my love for this book was higher than my hate for it.I guess if you read the book, you'd understand why I hate it at the same time.
Rush totally understands how to handle things when it comes to getting Blaire back and I love him for that.
She gave me another book that I fell in love with.
Sequels are often hard to write, but Rush and Blaire had more to tell.
By the end of Fallen Too Far, I did love Rush.
But the character I loved getting to see more of in this book was Woods.
If you've read Fallen Too Far, you know how it ended.
What I loved about Never Too Far was that it took time for Blaire to even want to talk to Rush.
Blaire and Rush's love for each other was addicting.
If you thought they had steam in the first book, just wait.
That is just the stupidest thing I’ve ever read!So,time for more RUSH...I really felt bad for Rush because this book is not really a big picnic for him.He does all the chasing.He does all the things to make their relationship work.Hell, he is even willing to sacrifice his family for Blaire.
Sure there’s another book in the works on Blaire and Rush (from what I read), but I just feel like everything should have been wrapped up in this one.
Warning: spoilers abound.Well, I’ll start off by saying that I didn’t hate the entire book, but I hated enough of it to warrant the 1-star rating I feel it deserves.
As a result, when he acted like a possessive, alpha male, I couldn't take him seriously.Don’t even get me started on the drama involving Nan. The entire situation grated on my last nerve.
Rush and Blaire used sex as a substitute for talking out feelings and working out problems far too often.
They haven't had enough time to truly get to know one another, and now with the pregnancy, things are more rushed than ever.
The only complaint I have is that I wish the book was longer because I can't get enough of Rush....This was a great, emotional, sexy read that I recommend to everyone.If you haven't read Fallen Too Far do that immediately!!!
3.5-4 Stars!!!I really enjoyed this book.
I love Rush!!!
He is so sexy!!!
I can't get enough of his dirty mouth.
"sighs" I love Blaire!
I love that about her.
Even though I really liked this book, it could have been longer and a little bit better.
I felt like the author rushed through some parts in the book that could’ve been developed better.
I was so disappointed with the ending.
After months of waiting for this book, the ending should’ve been great.
Overall, I liked this book.
I’m looking forward to reading Rush and Blaire’s next book and Woods book too!!
The drama of the soap opera.
Delicious tempting and addicitve.
I like never too far.
So much groveling.
Especially from rush.
He grows on me.
He knows how to groveling.
Meanwhile blaire....
she is bit doormat.
That traits is very very annoying.
How she accept everything rush throws at her.
Even she does not deserve it.
But i am happy she and rush have their happy ending.
And i know wood gaining his own fan base, i can not help myself pinning for nan.
Yes nan.
The super villian.
I want she have her own happy ending too.
4 rush stars
The second was way better than the first book in this series. I was told by a Goodreads friend to keep going. Lol.
Review posted at: Swept Away By Romance4 StarsNever Too Far is the much-anticipated sequel to Abbi Glines' Fallen Too Far. It is a continuation of Blair and Rush's love story, and picks up immediately after Fallen Too Far ends.
Admittedly, I was one of those people anxiously awaiting the continuation of Rush and Blair's story.
It falls where most Abbi Glines books do for me.
Fallen Too Far was never marketed as a stand-alone story.
For myself and many other fans of Rush, Blair and ALL of the characters in this series, we'll happily take as many books as Abbi Glines wants to write!
But, with no parents, and only a handful of friends, she is pretty much stuck sleeping on the floor (because she can't afford a bed), walking 3.5 miles (because she can't afford a car), and having to apply for medicare to pay for her doctors visits.
Meanwhile, Rush has 4 cars, a giant house with beds in every room, and has never given money a second thought.
He never bothers to ask and then is shocked when he finds out she had to walk 3 miles because he left her standing in the driveway without a key to get in, or that she was sleeping on a friends couch and then eventually on the floor because she literally has NOTHING.
Two Weeks Late.....Just when Blaire thought she had let Rush go, there she is back in Sumit where she discovers she's pregnant.She has a confrontation with Caine..“I’m not sure what exactly you think we’ve been through.
Even if it was just this once.” Rush finds out Blaire is pregnant and he is BEYOND sweet!!!!
I think Blaire is forgiving because of the sex!!Torn between the love of his sister and the woman he loves...Nan is still a cold hearted Biach!
Rush warns her to back off!!“Don’t assume I’m bluffing Nan. Because this time you’ve fucked with something I care about.
