https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14428.The_Inheritors
The author's cry is short: the horror, the horror.Golding was working as a teacher when he wrote Lord of the Flies and this is his second novel, which deals with a group of Neanderthals encountering a group of the more sophisticated Cro-Magnons.
p192 (hide spoiler)].Golding's Neanderthals, unlike his imagined children, are innocent and presented as part of the natural order.
I am still not sure what to make of this novel, here is another genuine spoiler (view spoiler)[ the Homo Sapiens call the Neanderthals 'Devils' and there is a long sequence in which Lok and the Neanderthal woman Fa are hidden in a tree and watch the doings of 'the new people'.
The two readings were necessary, and not because William Golding failed in any way, but because his novel, The Inheritors welcomes so much failure from his readers -- I don't say this lightly.
The Inheritors challenges.
It challenges readers to consider other ways of seeing the world.
It challenges readers to actually read!The Inheritors is a damning criticism of us and what makes us us.
Mostly it is a scream into a vaccuum that swallows all sound, reminding me of my favourite contemporary authors, like ki hope, who can imagine others that the rest of us wouldn't even remember let alone imagine.
It reminds me how much I miss the people (...
The Inheritors is a difficult read.
Even though we still do not know the reasons for their disappearance fully, Golding is pretty sure - they were wiped out by the murderous homo sapiens.
In this book, we see these peaceful race ruthlessly subjugated and then wiped out by the stronger species.What Golding does through this narrative is not provide a plausible reason for the disappearance of the Neanderthals: what he does is to hold a mirror up and force one to look inside oneself, on what makes one human.
The Inheritors is a rare attempt to portray the human race from the outside looking in: told from the point of view of a group of Neanderthals having their first, fatal, encounter with this new and dangerously clever species.As a palaeontological study this book may not be strictly accurate or even fully convincing, but as a prose experiment it's frankly astonishing and exactly the sort of thing top-level novelists should be trying to do.
Mal was strong and find much food. But Mal die. He sleep in belly of Oa now.Ha is strong but Ha fall in water. Oh no! Ha not like water!Lok is strong but Lok stupid. Lok not make good mind pictures.Lok look for Ha and smell other man. Who is other man? Doug not care.Doug bored.Doug give up.
The story of the gentle, mostly vegetarian Neanderthal tribe that is all but obliterated in a meeting with wandering Homo sapiens.
At times I found it very hard to understand what was going on, as the Homo sapiens’ activities – drinking wine, portaging boats, arguing – were described in Lok’s terms at length, with little clarity.
First we see Lok as a hairy “creature,” an “it,” and then finally we hear the story from the view of one of the humans, who, it turns out, are as scared and confused as the Neanderthals, whom they consider fierce devils.
The innocence of the Neanderthals is endearing, the "new people" Homo sapiens are dangerous and menacing.
The emotion that binds both species together is fear; -IE- Homo sapiens refer to the Neanderthals as "devils"; Fa tells Lok that “the new people are frightened of the air”.The prose within "The Inheritors" is highly poetic; Golding paints an intricate portrait of a primeval landscape, such as our planet will probably never experience again; this description in itself adds to the atmosphere of suspense the author creates in this novel.
Golding is a wonderful writer and this is a tremendously thought-provoking work.
It has something to tell us about 'the fall of man' and the loss of innocence.
Golding imagines the great forests at the crossover point for Neanderthals and Homo Sapiens.
We see the world from the Neanderthals' point of view; they are in many ways like us but lack our imagination, clarity of thought, adaptability and (most sadly) our greed and brutality.
This is not an easy book to read as it is written as if we are looking at the world from the Neanderthal perspective and with a less analytical mind.

Novogodišnja odluka da ne ostavljam započete knjige je bila jača od mučenja dok sam čitala knjigu....Tako da sam bila uporna, ali da me neko pita o čemu je nisam sigurna da bih mogla da prepričam. Premišljala sam se izmedju jedne i dve zvezdice, ali ipak dve. Verovali ili ne bilo je momenata kada sam uspevala da pronadjem sličnosti u ponašanju tih ljudi i savremenog čoveka. Nisam sigurna da sam je u potpunosti razumela, možda bi bilo potrebno ponovno iščitavanje, ali od mene ne u skorije vreme. Ima isuviše drugih divnih knjiga koje me čekaju :)
There were times when I thought quitting would save me from some stress, but I read a few reviews, got my bearings and remembered why I wanted to read this in the first place.
Take your time.
There’s some hidden beauty here, buried in the density of the prose.
I found I could have easily missed some critical plot points had I failed to recognize that I had started to day-dream instead of read.Finally, take your time to admire how the story is told and the beauty of some of the language:“Who would sharpen a point against the darkness of the world?”
The new people steal the Neanderthal children and kill the tribe elders, only Lok and Fa, a man and woman, are left, and they set out to rescue the children.Despite being written in simple language this is quite a difficult book to read.
The distinction works well but also makes the Homo sapiens feel very advanced.The book's introduction suggests that Neanderthals didn’t have language, which makes sense, language is what separates us from other animals, it is the start of abstract thought and duality - separating and portioning everything out and printed words suggest that so strongly too, so maybe it would be impossible to use written language to create a Neanderthal view of the world, but Golding has given it a damn good try!
Worthy to be read on that merit alone.A fine companion-piece to "Lord of the Flies" in which Golding is able to display his special forte: that is, describing the 'wildness' in man's nature.This particular book is cleverly conceived and it is nimbly, ably, deftly executed.
Golding had a clear challenge to overcome in this tale of early humans--so early they had only rudimentary language and scant sense of 'time before now' or 'time to come later'.
How does that translate into a dialog-rich, modern English novel?This is where Golding had to draw on his own power of invention.
Golding's revisiting --in this story--of these 'basics' of human life is very welcomed.
This book has been one of my favourites since the first time I read it, at school, many years ago.It is set in the distant past at a time when Neanderthal man is disappearing and a new stronger, more intelligent type of man - our ancestor - is spreading his grip across the land.We follow a small family group of Neanderthal man as they live out their peaceful lives.
We see them struggling to adapt to the changes and failing.The book is very well written and easy to read and the characters are immensely likeable.
Do you perchance like this new Far Cry Primal? Or are you, like me, in love(!) with the movie "Quest for fire"? Are you interested at all in the subject of early human life?If yes - then this gem of a book is a recommendation par excellance.Dont get 'fooled' by three stars that I gave - they are my punishment. Cause when this story was finally in my arms some major stuff happended that made me read this book so brokenly..so..without concentration and investment that I practically read it out of spite.
I really suffered reading this one. It's not that's not interesting once you finally understand what'd going on, but it just takes so much time to actually get into the story and understand the writing... I did not grasp the point of this book at all. It was just Golding's way to explain that he thinks we — the Homo Sapiens — killed off the Neanderthals, that's his explanation, but it could have been done so much better.1.5
Dvoumim se koju ocenu dati, ali neka bude dva. Knjiga me skroz ubila u pojam. Bukvalno sam se osetila kao da mi je nivo inteligencije spao na nivo ovih praistorijskih ljudi. Prosto mi bilo mučno. A radnja je puna "dešavanja" da je prosto bilo "zabavno" čitati. Mozak me toliko boleo da nisam ni uspela sve ispratiti, iako nema nekih zapleta. No, pretpostavljam da je nekako bila i poenta da se čitalac oseti kao da je deo tih skupina ljudi, što i jesam uspela. Stoga ipak nije ocena minimalna.
Novela (con toquecitos de algún subgénero para afianzar la propuesta, pero ese no es su motor).Lo que nos cuenta.
En el libro Los herederos (publicación original: The Inheritors, 1955), Lok y su grupo viven en armonía con su entorno a muchos niveles, en una disposición social estable y conscientes, a su manera, de ellos mismos y la naturaleza.
Pero las cosas son difíciles en el Paleolítico y, además de los desafíos diarios que estos neardentales conocían, la presencia de unos seres distintos con capacidades más prácticas que las suyas lo hará todo todavía más difícil.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
The most interesting aspect of this book is that it is mostly and almost entirely told from the perspective of a Neanderthal.
Golding's Neanderthals have a different culture, different speech, and different thought pattern from us.
As a result, our Neanderthal guide, Lok, through this encounter is mostly confused throughout the entire novel.
Together, writer and reader are embarking to understand the perspective of a cognizant being that they could never hope to understand.
And upon further reflection, we will find that the conflict between cultures is probably not that different from Golding's fiction of pre-historic men coming into contact with our genetic ancestors.
Imagine how difficult it must have been to write in a balance of modern English and presumed Neanderthal utterances.
(It helps that everything takes place in the same area around a waterfall.)I've read reviews that question the choice of main character, Lok, who is the most ignorant and thoughtless of the band.
Feminism wins in this reversal of "caveman pulls woman by hair" routine.
Whether it's intentional or not, I think Lok is perfect.
He manifests the end of his race by virtue of his barely conceptual thinking.The writing style and originality win overall.
Golding's Neanderthals are insufferably innocent noble savage types who live in harmony with nature, refuse to kill animals for food and spend their time mooning around their Eden and generally being all touchy-feely and pathetic.[return][return]Homo Erectus is much more accurately drawn as a depraved and bloodthirsty carouser with a brainbox too big for his own good.
The story really picks up when the humans come on the scene.
Alas, too late.[return][return]Unfortunately I think Golding's execution of his admittedly brilliant idea is seriously flawed.
[from my book lover's journal at the time of reading:]About 20 minutes after confused reading of about the first 20pp, i felt their personalities finally.
It took time away from the words, away from the un-commaed sentences, away from the alien quote attributions, away from "I have a picture...." Still, i seem to lose them while reading.
I'll carry on though, it's intriguing, compelling, well-written.After reading it all, it felt complete but still befuddling in its alienness: Homo sapiens is foreign in this dawn-of-time portrayal and so are the Neanderthals.
I wanted their demise to be a less brutal example of natural selection.
I loved this when I first read it in 1983 (it's one of the few books I've kept all these years). We (or anyway, I) know a little more about Neanderthals now, and maybe it's less convincing, but I still love it as a tale of thoughtless and tragic misunderstanding. It's a good antidote to the romanticising of early Homo sapiens in The Clan of the Cave Bear, anyway.
The Neanderthals are idealized, the CroMagnons are us. Too bad for the Neanderthals.
Most of the book is written from the perspective of Lok, a male of 'the people' as they call themselves.
It was an intense and surreal experience to look at the human race from the perspective of that primitive mind, to share its confusion, anxiety, fascination, and pain.
I am deeply saddened, reflecting upon the human race capable of inflicting so much pain and despair on themselves and on others, not even because of malice, but because of fear, and because of being too smart for our own good.I'm still very glad of our existence.
of our imagination, of our books.
Casi siempre termino congraciándome con los antagonistas, simplemente porque no me gustan las tramas predecibles donde el bueno siempre sale airoso, pero en este caso debo decir que aun conociendo de antemano el resultado de esta lucha desigual (ganamos nosotros, de lo contrario estaría yo cincelando esto en piedra, pero por si acaso, recomiendo El origen de las especies, de Darwin), mi corazón estaba con Lok y su reducido clan de salvajes, porque mostraban lo más básico y esencial – también de lo que a veces carecemos- del mismo comportamiento humano: amor y fraternidad, pero también dolor, pena y sufrimiento.
Golding, enters, and leads us into, a prehistoric world, a place and time where a small group of Neanderthals encounter a larger party of 'the new people', Homo Sapiens.
It whets the appetite for more of the good stuff: I've been to my bookshelf to look out my copy of Golding's Lord of the Flies, read at school but not for decades, and also Clive King's classic Puffin Stig of the Dump, about a caveman encountered by a small 20th Century boy.Long live story-tellers!
So, a showdown between Homo neanderthalensis and Homo sapiens, set in the remotest reaches of human history and told from the point of view of the last Neanderthal man?
Golding's book has its strengths, mainly the extraordinary imaginative leap, sustained over 230-odd pages, that permits the reader to see the world through Lok's eyes.
That passage describing Lok's clueless reactions to an arrow that has just struck a tree next to him is by itself worth the price of admission.However, a couple of things did not work for me at all.
Apparently this was Golding's favourite book among all his work, but I think it could have, should have been a good deal better.
It is such a "concept" book...Golding is doing something very specific here and he does not deviate from it- the whole thing is told from the point of view of a Neanderthal man, who has a more limited brain capacity than a human being and so fails to understand things that humans would grasp pretty easily.
The Neanderthal main characters also have particular ways of making sense of the world, like conceptualizing memories or ideas as "pictures" that they either have or don't have.
I get why Golding structured things this way, and I am fluctuating between irritation at how stylized and sometimes very opaque this all is, and admiration for Golding's dedication to staying inside the mental world of his character no matter what.
When I heard about this book, I thought the concept sounded intriguing and, considering the pedigree of the author (Nobel Laureate-winning author of Lord of the Flies, William Golding), it seemed like I would be sure to enjoy it.
Since none of us really know what the mental capacity of and thought processes were for neanderthals, Golding takes considerable creative license in demonstrating the neanderthal psyche.
Much like Lord of the Flies, The Inheritors is intended to provide commentary about the brutal nature of Homo Sapiens (the humans in this novel aren't the kindliest of folk) but, once the story turns and the narrative takes place from the perspective of the humans, they aren't nearly as bad as they originally seemed to be.
