https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/588752.Saplings
That's not exactly a criticism, but man, if you're used to Streatfeild's kid lit about children learning arts and overcoming personal and economic challenges you will not be expecting this grim account of a family collapsing under the pressures and changes of the second world war.
This is one of those books where all the characters are hateful or at best weak or indifferent or selfish and do nothing to help as these kids' lives get worse and worse until they are irretrievably fucked up.
Don't read this when you're sick in bed and can't find your copy of Ballet Shoes and expect it to soothe you.
The realistic portrayal of a family torn apart by war. Heartbreaking.
Like many of us, I grew up secretly wishing I could be a member of the Fossil family from Noel Streatfeild's children's book 'Ballet Shoes'.
Our kids 'aven't suffered 'o-ever else 'as' This could not be further from the truth, as you witness the downward spiral of devastation on each child within the book as war rips apart the close knit family.I felt such grief for the children in the story.
I adored the children in it, (even though they broke my heart) and I know it has only increased my love for Noel Streatfeild's books.
I burned through this one. Haven't done that in a while. I absolutely loved how each of the 4 children were so different, had individual motivations and personalities - I've never read a novel that shows so clearly how events affect family members in such different ways. Very well done. I did feel that the author had something to say - but she didn't preach. A book that drew me in and dragged me along right to the very end.
A solid 3.5 stars. It got better as it went on and was more subtle than I would have thought at first.
3.5
The book charts the effect of WWII on the Wiltshire family, which, when we first meet it on a summer holiday in Eastbourne, consists of four happy children (Laurel, Tony, Kim and Tuesday) with a caring and wise industrialist father (Alex), a charming and beautiful but narcissistic mother (Lena), ably assisted by an loving old nanny, and a perceptive young governess (Miss Glover).
This is a book for adults: although it is largely about children, it is not suitable for anyone under about fourteen or fifteen.Saplings follows the development of all four children, though we perhaps care most about the two eldest, and Laurel in particular, but we also get to know a range of aunts and uncles.
Streatfeild follows a happy middle-class British family into World War II and examines the psychological effects of the war and the evacuations of children from London during the bombings. As with her children's novels, her portrayal of how children think and feel is excellent. Her feel for the adults is rather less so, though it's very interesting to see an author much better known as a children's author dealing with more adult subjects, from drunkenness to death. Streatfeild tackles these with her trademark directness but doesn't quite manage to capture the adults' perspective as well as the children's.
At first, the children's lives continue to run pretty smoothly, with minor upsets to their sense of entitlement, but things change sharply when their father is killed.
None of the aunts, apart from the vain and selfish Lindsey, is a bad person, but the strain and stress of coping with ration books and all the minor and sometimes major inconveniences of wartime have taken their toll and made them lesser people than they were before.
Lena marries a rich man, and her children find a safe haven with their paternal grand-parents.
From there, I read White Boots, Curtain Up!, Thursday's Child (this one as a bed-time book with my mother), Ballet Shoes for Anna, The Painted Garden, When The Sirens Wailed and more.
Streatfeild was very, very good at drawing out certain types of characters so it is perhaps not surprising that she chose to re-use what worked.
In Saplings, Streatfeild exposes the lie of this as she steadily strips away every support available to the Wiltshire children and drags them through the agony of total war.
I rather adored Streatfeild’s Ballet Shoes when I read it a couple of years ago, and thought that Saplings would be the perfect summertime read.Saplings, originally published in 1945, tells of the Wiltshires, a middle class London family whom, at the outset, are taking their annual summer holiday in Eastbourne.
She had heard scraps of conversation… As a shield she made loud fun of all war precautions’.Streatfeild’s descriptions are gorgeous, particularly in those instances where she takes the hopes, thoughts and feelings of her characters into account.
I just found this book to be a powerful and moving story about the sad destruction of a family.The saplings from Streatfield's novel are the four Wiltshire children, Laurel, Tony, Kim and Tuesday, whose lives are uprooted and forever altered due to war.Before the outbreak of World War II the Wiltshire family led a pretty typical middle class life, with a nanny, governess, nice home in London and trips to the beach.
I can't tell you how angered I got reading this book because of the adult characters who should have been looking out for and taking care of these children and instead only made their lives more tragic.Published in 1945, this novel takes a psychological look at the war and its impact on children as the events were unfolding.
Noel Streatfield is better known for her "Shoes" books, particularly Ballet Shoes, but she also wrote adult novels.
Saplings tells the tragic story of the four Wiltshire children whose lives are devastated by World War II.
The book opens on the eve of the war, as the Wiltshire family enjoys an idyllic holiday at the shore.
Alex Wiltshire, head of the family, is an industrialist working on military projects, while his wife Lena, is a charming, but shallow woman who actually resents the intrusion of her children into her relationship with her husband.
Crying over a Noel Streatfield isn't unusual for me but this one was more genuine despair crying than fond nostalgia crying
Gently led into a seemingly blissful middle class family sweet and tender togetherness of relationships.... and then WW2 starts and the blitz works it’s way decimating and fracturing the sweet lives of the children their family oh and the staff it’s that sort of household. Keenly observed and described with supreme skill. The psychiatrist commentary at the end pompousish but thought provoking about children and trauma.
Having read a number of books that chronicle what life was like in Britain for those on the home front during the war, I was especially intrigued with this one because it was published in 1945.
Unlike so many other books I’ve read about the period, this one was written during the time the events it describes – air raids, blackouts, bomb shelters, food rationing, children being evacuated from their homes, the Blitz and all the horrors of the war were still fresh in the author’s mind and experience.
It’s a perspective that’s often missing from other books I’ve read about the Second World War and I can only wonder why.
It's a very quiet, gentle book (apart from the bombs dropping on everybody)--my heart just ACHES for the girl, Laurel, whose childhood and education are continually destroyed not directly by the war itself, but by the well-meaning blunders of the adults around her.My favorite scene in this book is where the working-class evacuees teach the middle-class evacuees how to properly vandalize an abandoned cottage--the irony being that half the kids had previously used this place as their hide-out and had worked hard to fix it up, including re-glazing all the windows:Albert threw a stone.
All the pent-up excitement of the world around them came out.
Her ‘supreme gift was her ability to see the world from a child’s perspective' and ‘she shows that children can remain serene in the midst of terrible events as long as they are handled with love and openness.’ She is particularly harsh on middle-class authoritarianism and understood that 'the psychological consequences of separating children from their parents was glossed over in the rush to ensure their physical survival.
It is fascinating to watch Streatfeild casually and intuitively anticipate many of the findings of developmental psychology over the past fifty years.' It is true that this is not a happy book in many ways, the slow destruction of a happy family (although at the beginning you sense that happiness to be fragile) is not a cheerful topic.
Persephone Press republishes forgotten popular classics from women authors, mostly from the early 20th century.
Saplings by Noel Streatfeild was one of the works republished by Persephone.
Written in 1945, it deals with the effects of World War II on a nice, middle-class British family with four children.
Anyway, they're a nice family, and the war wrecks them, in small ways and large.
It's sad when people die, but it's also sad when the small dreams and hopes of children aren't allowed to flourish because of the neglect and sacrifice required by the war.
It was written just at the end of World War II, and the inspiration for it must have come from what she had directly observed during those tumultuous years in England.
At the very end of the book, she has a very minor character (a charwoman) saying that at least in England, (as opposed to France) the children haven't had to suffer during the war.
These final words might as well be underscored as "deeply ironic" because the novel is about just how much the particular children of one upper-middle class English family have been made to suffer.Without giving too much away, these adored and sheltered children suffer from all sorts of anxieties and uncertainties -- some of them due to obvious tragedies, and others due to being neglected and/or misunderstood.
Although better known for her children's books, Streatfeild does a wonderful job here subtly drawing the psychological changes experienced by children during the war.
As the book progresses and the war begins to intrude, the fissures deepen and spread, helped along by the famed British stoicism and stiff- upper-lippiness.
Do you know, Alice, I'm beginning to wonder if we've not been told things wrong.
I wonder if we shan't find that grown-ups do worse things than children."Well-intentioned they may have been, but the adults in this novel certainly do mess these children around without understanding them in the least.
I really loved this book about the "perfect" upper class family of chic mom and adored and morally perfect dad and their four distinctly depicted children.
All the kids are little quirky and full of humanity --they are keenly but subtly conveyed with their imperfections and potential for neurosis.
And then everything and everyone unravels when dad dies in a bombing of the family home in WWII.
Streatfield deftly shows again and again how different personalities sharing the same events come to decidedly different ends.
Some thrive and some are undone.
Some vascilate between the two depending on the events at hand.
I read and re-read Noel Streatfield as a child but even so I was a little trepidatious of this book.
I wasn't convinced that her style would translate to adult fiction, or even if I would enjoy it as an adult.
The book begins in a very 'jolly hockey sticks' way which irritated me, but Streatfield writes about children - and she understands and cares about them, and this draws you in.
The themes soon become much less jolly and I enjoyed the psychological study of the children that was probably way ahead of her time.

The Wiltshire children are not the most secure of families to begin with, with a father who almost has to protect them from their rather narcissistic mother, and their happiness soon disintegrates when war splits them up and puts them in situations where nobody has time for them as individuals any more. This is a book for adults - there's sex - although the emphasis is on the children and how they can develop or be damaged. I loved it and would have liked to have read more about all of them.
I wasn't sure what to expect of adult fiction from the genius who gave us Ballet Shoes and White Boots, but this is a brilliant book and I am saddened that the rest of her adult works are out of print.My full review: http://www.noseinabook.co.uk/?p=2068
It took me a few chapters to become absorbed in this story of a family just at the beginning of World War 2, but once I became more acquainted with the characters it moved quickly.
Each member of the family has their own issues to deal with, personal and external, that affect them as the war begins.
Tony, the oldest boy, models himself after his father but the foundations of his world are rocked when war brings tragedy to the family.
Really interesting - WW2 and the effect on a family in England (2 parents and 4 children).
The disruption of the wartime years and getting back to "normal" made these topics important issues of the day.The title of the book is interesting - a parallel is made with growing plants and raising children.
Given how the children turn out, we must assume that they were not given the conditions to flourish even though many adults cared for them.
Wonderful depiction of children and a family in crisis during the WWII. The story starts with lovely chapters of the family when everything was still OK and the possibility of war is just a looming threat on the horizon. There are many other characters in the story as well and all those fit into the book so well.All of the four children have a strong voice and two of the oldest Lauren and Tony get serious, long plots which are heartbearking in all of the small thoughts we're given during the wartime.
I read this because the publisher reprints English literature of interest. This novel, written shortly after WWII explores the impact of the war on an ostensibly happy family, particularly the children. While I enjoyed it, I found it to lack subtlety. On the other hand, it is just the kind of story that BBC is broadcasting these days.
