https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16729.Beach_Music
I honestly had no idea what to expect, and almost put it down after 13 pages because Talladega Nights was on HBO.But I didn't, and I spent large chunks of my afternoons once back onshore reading this monstrosity.
Beach Music is a grand, sweeping novel of a Southern man in a Southern city in a Southern state (South Carolina, ironically).
It's a novel about families and relationships, births and deaths, and coming of age.It's also a seriously wordy tome.
800 pages of very small type.
I could easily get rid of 200+ pages without affecting the main storyline one bit.
I met Pat Conroy at a book signing event in Atlanta when this book was released.
He signed my book "Citadel Forever, Pat Conroy." I'm such a jackass.I've read this book at least 3 times and I've cried at the ending all three times.
The first time I was in a room full of prospective jurors waiting to be called for duty in Marietta, GA.
I had to go to the restroom to finish the last page or two and collect myself before going back out into that room of 200 strangers.
One paragraph summed up my Mom in such beauty that that is all I need to know.
That paragraph was insanely healing.I can't imagine the utter grief and loss he must have experienced in his lifetime - you can tell he writes what he knows.His knowledge on the holocaust was amazing also.
Like in the Mao regime - all based on fear - fear of what I don't know what was Mao afraid of to hate protest beauty enforcing grass to be picked?
In short: Jack McCall is an American who moves to Rome with his young daughter after his wife commits suicide, intending to never see anyone from his past again (including his own family), but he eventually comes home and starts dealing with the past.The long version of the plot is...
The Great Jew.I did like one short part of the book, a flashback in which Jack and some of his high school friends go fishing on the water and end up stranded for days, having to rely on the survival skills of one of them in order to live.
Jack McCall is a sweeping character, and when the book opens, we find he and his daughter ensconced away in Rome after a family tragedy.
Given Conroy's incredible descriptions of low-country, as well as Rome, a reader might surmise that Conroy isn't really writing about a fictional Jack McCall, but more various facets of his own life disguised.
Perhaps this is why I love 'Beach Music,' and Pat Conroy so very much: one gets less of a sense that they are reading complete fiction, but rather peeking into the diary of a literary great.
Possibly one of the worst books I have ever had the misfortune to read. I bought it after hearing Nan Talese, Conroy's editor, talk about how it was put together. In retrospect, I should have realized that her telling of how Conroy was impaired by drink and depression during the writing of the book, and her active role in putting the book together meant it would be a crazy-quilt hodgepodge rambling Faulkner wannabe of a book. When the Nazis showed up, I though, Oh My God.
Not so much a book as a life experience, Pat Conroy's Beach Music covers a heck of a lot of topics.
Like his other titles this one has family and friendship are the forefront but the scope of this novel was vast covering alcoholism, suicide, schizophrenia, domestic violence, religion, the holocaust, the vietnam war, politics, trust, sickness, survival, and love in all shapes and sizes.
Jack recalls his experiences of resisting the Vietnam war, highlighting the divisiveness caused within American society, amongst family and friends, the strength of opinion and lengths people went to express their beliefs.
Pat Conroy has done it again!
A fantastic 5 star audiobook on cassettes!
I could not stop listening to this novel until it was finished!
Wow!
Thanks to my Goodreads friends who recommended this masterpiece with their excellent reviews.
My only regret is that it has taken me until today to find BEACH MUSIC and read it.
The beautiful heartfelt writing and mesmerizing language of Pat Conroy drew me deep into this fabulous story.
To quote my friend Sharon, "He's skilled at creating characters that step off the page, into your life and linger in your memory." I highly recommend this novel!5 stars
This is a really beautifully written story.I've purchased this book no less than 4 different times. Every time someone saw it they wanted to borrow it and somehow it never got returned. My mother-in-law filched the last copy I bought and she SWEARS it belongs to her.I picked up yet another copy to take away with me and read while traveling and am truly enjoying re-discovering just how wonderful it is to read Pat Conroy.I'm so pleased to have picked this book up again. What a joy to read such artfully crafted prose. Conroy's writing is exquisite.
Pat Conroy wrote the beautiful introduction to one of my all-time favorite books, “Gone with the Wind”.
Once I finished “Gone with the Wind” and then read Conroy’s introduction, I knew that this would be an author that I need to look into.
Part of the story takes place in Italy, specifically Rome, and I finished this book right before we arrived there.
While reading, I looked up Pat Conroy and was amazed at how quite a bit of the story is similar to his own life.
Some of my favorite quotes:“American men are allotted just as many tears as American women.
I'm having a hard time kicking this review off, because there is just...so much.I finished this novel last night and have started another, but my head is still full of this story.When I was about 3/4 through the story, an image came to mind.
I thought Pat Conroy's story structure and even his pacing was brilliant.I say "even his pacing" because some of the more negative reviews I've seen have called this novel bloated and tedious.
Pat Conroy's Prince of Tides was one of my favorite novels ever (Lords of Discipline, not so much), so it was time to give him another shot.I was ready to settle back, and let a story unfold in my head.
I didn't think the various aspects of the story resonated with each other enough to belong in the same book.
The Great Jew's childhood story also seemed to belong in another book, as well.
All these separate characters' stories gave the novel the feeling of a series of vignettes instead of a tightly wound together whole.
Unfortunately, as I stated above, each of these vignettes could have belonged in different novels or been published as short stories.Lastly, I want to remark on one major irritant in this novel: the too-snappy dialogue.
Jack's often ascerbic banter with his childhood friends when they re-encounter each other in Italy and in S.
As a testament to the quality of that prologue, I waded through a couple hundred pages of overwrought and overweight storytelling just to find some closure on the Jack McCall's wife's suicide mystery.
I made it through all 768 pages not because I found Jack's healing process credible, not because I found the South Carolina backdrop endearing, not because I really cared why Shyla committed suicide, but because I was impressed by how Conroy brought all of the disparate parts of the story into a working whole.
I won't read another Pat Conroy novel because there is too much good literature out there, but reading Beach Music was not a waste of my time.
It had the feeling of a forced epic, when the strength comes in the smaller elements - the conflicts between people, and the secrets in their histories.For me, it was a shock and then a comfort to be reading a novel about someone going home after a long time away to be with a mother who has cancer, since that is what my summer looks like it will be.
You can't escape contemporary southern literature without acknowledging Pat Conroy, and you can't escape the man himself if you are around anything book related in the state of South Carolina.
I've read Beach Music twice.
It is simply a brilliant, complex work that few writers other than Pat Conroy would even attempt to pull off.Those who don't like the book usually focus on its length (nearly 800 pages), and what they call the "indistinguishable" brothers.
Length should not matter unless the book is clogged with irrelevant details or story lines.
Beach Music isn't.
As for the indistinguishable brothers, it's not their story--it's Jack's story.
Beach Music deserves pride of place among them.
I chose this book because its cold here in Minnesota this time of year and I wanted to be whisked back to warm South Carolina, a state I've been privileged to live in.
South Carolina gets into your blood and so does Conroy.
He's simply a master of words, some of his descriptions so achingly beautiful that I had to reread them just to see if I had imagined them.
There were times when I had to put it down, the descriptions so harsh and real.
This novel will stick with me for a long time.
My main complaint regarding this book was that Pat Conroy seemed hell-bent on packing as many increasingly-strange tangents into its pages as possible, while giving no thought whatsoever to what these episodes had in common or what kind of story they were supposed to tell.Beach Music does not lack for memorable scenes.
I’m still not sure what the overall point of the novel was or how these scenes related to each other.Compounding my dislike for the book are the main characters themselves.
Staged by Jack’s friend Mike, for a bizarre home-movie, the main characters come together on stage to tell their version of the events that eventually drove them apart.
I fell in love with Pat Conroy's writing while on holiday at Hunting Island, South Carolina - it was accidental though, my professor at grad school had reccomended him and I thought it looked like a good meaty read for a beach holiday.
I didn't have any idea that he sets most of his books there and is from there.
This might very well be up there with Diana Wynne Jones's A Tale of Time City as my all time favorite book.
I guess there are probably people out there who hate Pat Conroy, but I ain't one of them.
Aside from the book being epically long, Pat Conroy is a great story teller. However I was disappointed with the climax of the book and a bit let down leading me to struggle to finish. But I did and thought that the biggest strength were the story elements that made me laugh, weep, get angry, etc. A good read if you are willing to commit to the length of the book.
This is one of those books that I have always wanted to re-read, but have been afraid to, worrying that it may not live up to my expectations the second time around.
I downloaded the audio edition, thinking I'd try going that route for a second reading, but now that Conroy has passed away, I think I'd like to honor his memory, his talent, and his craft and give the book another reading.I have only read three of Conroy's novels: Beach Music, The Great Santini and South of Broad.
I love almost anything by Conroy, but this - in my humble opinion - is his greatest masterpiece.
Conroy tells some beautiful (albeit sometimes, heavy)stories.
My favorite moment in the book, by FAR, is the depiction of Jon-Hardin holding all of his brothers hostage at the top of the Silas Pearlman Bridge (I think that's the right bridge...).
I don't want to ruin it for you, but if you ever read it, you can know that that is my favorite part :)
I love Pat Conroy's writing.
This is a book that will take you from the piazzas in Rome to the low country of South Carolina.
You will fall so deeply in love with each setting that you couldn't possibly decide which place you would prefer to live.Readers say they tire of Conroy's "dysfunctional family" themes.
Well, who hasn't got a dysfunctional family?
It would be utterly boring to read about countless perfect, tidy unscathed families anyway!
We always talk about the books that will stay with us forever.
I can't recommend it enough.The story centers around Jack McCall, who leaves his home in South Carolina and moves to Italy with his daughter, Leah, after losing his wife.
The story follows Jack and Leah as they make a new life in Italy, eventually return to South Carolina, and cope with the loss of their beloved wife and mother.
It flew by for me and I found myself wishing there were more to read.The book, in my view, is somewhat of a love letter to South Carolina, and the South in general, as are many of Pat Conroy's books.
This one covers the same ground as "Prince of Tides," but not nearly as well. "Prince of Tides" was compelling and the writing was beautiful, but "Beach Music" rambles. I wanted to find out what happened, but I just got tired of slogging through it all...
It took a long time to finish this book. It’s long. And vast. Very moving saga
His gift for creating characters from words on a page to larger than life people is magnificent.
In all his books he is excellent at depicting dysfunction in families and this book is no exception.
Beach Music is essentially about Jack McCall; a single dad trying to raise his little girl Leah in Rome after his wife Shyla commits suicide.
He wants to get far away from the dysfunction of the families and demons he leaves behind in South Carolina.
Beach Music had me laughing, thinking and sobbing.
I hate saying goodbye to these people who have become part of my life, albeit for a short time.
I forgot how much fun it was to read these types of books full of family drama, unrealistic and over-the-top characters, and some good old romance.
Throw in the fact that his now dead wife's parents are Holocaust survivors, his best friend from grade school who's now a world-famous hollywood type and just kind of pops up all over the book at random (I guess you assume he's rich enough to do that) wants to make a movie about their young life in South Carolina, another not-so-best friend is running for the S.
Do I have a category for "mess"?
Nope.What about "sensationalistic drivel"?
Nope.Maybe I should be grateful and take it as a good sign that I have not had to waste hours reading books that never should have been written.
I just prodded through 628 pages of everything but the kitchen sink:SchizophreniaSucideHolocaustRacismVietnam RiotsChild AbuseWife AbuseInfidelityCancerAppalachian tragediesRescue of Sea TurtlesIncarceration...and I am only half through.
What a disaster.
But I could forgive that, except for the feeling that this was done simply for the hopes of getting movie rights.
I can't forgive this exploitation of those that suffered so horrifically during the Holocaust.
Just absolutely loved this novel! It was a bit long but the characters are both warm and endearing. Pat Conroy is a fabulous author.
