https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27696.Airs_Above_the_Ground
(Extra points to any Stewart fans who can name all of the novels those three boys are in.)The "airs above the ground" are the beautiful, traditional dance moves that the trained Lippizaner stallions do, including the levade, where the horse rears up and holds his pose:Stewart circles back around to the "airs above the ground" theme in a couple of interesting ways, including a terrifying chase across the rooftops and battlements of an old Austrian castle.There are a few slow spots and a few unlikely turns in the plot (especially at the end, when (view spoiler)[Lewis agrees to take Vanessa and Timothy along with him to confront the bad guys.
I became a devoted fan of Mary Stewart this year when I discovered her Merlin and King Arthur series and am determined to read everything she ever wrote… no matter how long that may take!
Lewis leaves for Stockholm on business while Vanessa stays behind in London to lament the fact that they have had to postpone a much needed vacation to the shores of Italy.
One looked for his wings."I recommend this book to anyone that enjoys the writing of Mary Stewart, those that want an entertaining mystery free from gruesome descriptions, and readers interested in a 'crash course' on the background of the legendary Lipizzan stallions.
Plus this one has all of my favorite things....Gorgeous Austrian scenery....Horses!And not just any horses....The noble, ancient Lipizzaner stallions of the Spanish Riding School of Vienna are part of the story.There are all sorts of wonderful details about the school, the horses, their well-documented lineages and the way they are trained.
Many of the movements horses are taught in dressage were used in war-time cavalry maneuvers.
There's a circus (with HORSES!) There are amazing chase scenes across mountaintop castle roofs...Awesome and scary moments with a cog railway...And a very satisfying denouement.Buddy read summer 2015--thanks for sharing the fun!
I have read this book a gazillion times over the years, and I never get tired of it.
I like the fast pace, the horses, the circus, the mystery (even though that part is admittedly not all that mysterious), the horses, the relationship between Vanessa and her husband, the way young Timothy becomes more of who he is supposed to be, and the horses.
Left, right, forwards, backwards.....these words make sense to me, but compass directions in such situations leave me lost and confused.But oh, those horses!
Airs Above the Ground has every single element that is needed to make a marvelous Mary Stewart novel work: an enchanting and somewhat exotic setting, a plucky heroine navigating dangers under her own steam, a handsome and strong man just when you need him, an evil antagonist and one of Stewart’s charming boys.
There are such people, unfortunates who have to be angry before they can feel alive.
Airs Above the Ground is a marvelous romp and a delicious read, as every Mary Stewart novel is.
The fictional castle, Schloss Zechstein, which becomes the main action arena in the story is based on the Weesenstein Schloss, situated on the borders of Hungary and the Czech Republic.
The author recreated the beauty of the surroundings in picturesque words and winds a suspenseful, dramatic story around the ancient landscapes of the area.
It was a good introduction to this author's work.I have ordered several of her books and look forward to read them, simply because it celebrates the old-fashioned decency and grace of the Sixties women's literature.
Yes, this author is part of the golden oldies I have chosen to read.
I hadn't read Mary Stewart since she was contemporary fiction; a couple of titles maybe, of which the only one I (dimly) remember at, urk, 50 years distance was Madame, Will You Walk?
Remembered it even less well than I thought...) Interesting to revisit both the writer and the times.I'd call this thriller-lite perhaps, rather than romantic suspense as such -- there wasn't much romance, as our heroine/1st-person-narrator is two years married at the start, to a man whom she turns out to know less well than she'd thought.
Good horse values.A while back I read a couple of the Dorothy Dunnett then-contemporary romantic suspense/mystery titles; these two echo each other in some subtle stylistic fashion, though I like Stewart's voice better.
3.5*Set in a favourite country (Austria) & a favourite time period (the sixties) but even so this for me wasn't one of Stewart's best.
The story worked best for me at the times the hero Lewis wasn't present.
Part of the story felt a bit confused & I had to go back for a reread.The trademark heroine in peril bit was thrilling & I was on the edge of my seat.
Blech!I prefer Stewart's more self reliant heroines.
But at least this one wasn't smoking like a train.
Vanessa hadn’t quite decided what to do, she was a little annoyed by the lady’s assumptions, but she seized the opportunity; because she really did want to find her husband and understand what was going on.In Austria, seventeen year-old Tim admitted that his father wasn’t expecting him – that was only a story for his grandmother – and that what he really wanted was to see the country and to visit The Spanish Riding School in Vienna.
Airs Above the Ground was a good read once it got going.
The prospect of a woman seeing her missing husband on a newsreel and setting out to find him is what I found interesting about this book and it was probably the main draw, other than the fact that it's written by Mary Stewart and I generally like her writing.
The book's description makes it sound like Vanessa's husband is missing, but he really isn't.
As always Mary Stewart's descriptions are wonderful and there is a lot about the Lipizzaner horses in the book as well which is interesting up to a point.
I wasn't sure I could stick with that plot, but fortunately it didn't turn out to be the main attraction: that mystery, at least, was relatively swiftly solved.What remains a mystery to me, even after finishing the book, is how a woman who is perfectly prepared to indulge in car chases and tote a gun around -- in a pretty kickass style for someone who thought she was dealing with an extra-marital affair, not violence -- can still be full of the Mary Stewart novel-esque thoughts about how fragile and sweet womanhood is and how it's so wonderful when men treat women like they're delicate and -- I can't even go on.
There’s not as much of a sense of landscape, though; it feels like it could be set anywhere, at least until the ending with the night time chase and the train lines on the mountain.I remembered all too well why the romance in this bothered me.
I did like that she played along, didn’t blow his cover — Stewart’s heroines are often better at this sort of thing than you’d expect, even if it is in a rather ‘I’ll do anything for my man’ sort of way.
Just keep the main couple out of it and finish with the horse.Originally posted here.
Of course, Vanessa couldn’t do anything else but fly to Austria to find out what her lying husband is doing there.
She has a side-kick – a seventeen-year-old boy Tim. Tim’s mother learned that Vanessa is going to Vienna.
Are you trying to tell me you’ve lied to your poor mother and gone blinding off into the blue without having the foggiest idea where your father even is?’  I also learned about the centuries-old tradition of Austria – the white Lippizan stallions and the Spanish Riding School in Vienna.
The Lippizans are still performing today; they are the pride of Austria, a huge tourist attraction, and the state property.
Having read all of Mary Stewart's opus (except for two of the children's books), I would rank this particular story among my top five favourites.
The title refers to the classical dressage movements performed by the famous Lipizzaner stallions at the Spanish Riding School in Vienna.One of the most enjoyable aspects of Mary Stewart's books is her thorough research.
One of the pivotal scenes toward the end of the book is pure comedy, coming on the heels of a rather robust Bond-style chase.If you have read and enjoyed other Stewart novels, this is one of the best.
I read Mary Stewart's Airs Above the Ground for the Austria stop of my Around the World in 80 Books challenge.
I adored the last Stewart book which I read, Nine Coaches Waiting, and always have high hopes when beginning one of her novels.
Stewart is a comfortable and comforting author to read, and that is no different with Airs Above the Ground; I found it difficult to put down, and was still surprised by how perfectly Stewart paces her novels.
A romantic suspence story set in Austria, the plot is exciting enough but is almost secondary to the lyrical descriptions of the beautiful and brilliant horses of the Spanish riding school in Vienna, and the lovingly detailed descriptions of their dancing.
Vanessa's sidekick is Tim, a boy who wants to be one of the haute ecole riders at the Spanish riding school.
their adventures are exciting, but it is the horses who are the real stars of this story.
The Austrian placements here are splendid- the visuals and the actions both would make an excellent film.
After page 200 it would be a superb action film (different pacing than all that former circus surrounds) with chase and elevator scenes perfect for the visuals.
Yet I never read her in this genre type before and was surprised at the quality of the "case".
Ones I had read before tended toward the Gothic or Romance genre that I knew was her forte and huge success.Very entertaining and of a time/era when sharp characterizations in a chronological progression form were tops.
Mary Stewart's other heroines manage to pass themselves off as simply human -- capable and courageous and vulnerable and scared in their own unique ways.
But this heroine is married, and the gender roles that are surprisingly absent from Stewart's other books make up for lost time in these pages.
Maybe it would have been better if her husband was not such an arrogant, condescending, and maddeningly capable jerk -- or if Vanessa at least recognized him as such.
The best thing about the story was definitely Timothy, though we were left to wonder if marriage wouldn't turn him, too, into an arrogant, condescending, and maddeningly capable jerk.
I love this author's writing - there were passages that I wanted to copy onto a separate piece of paper and hang on my walls, one in particular was a description of a horse that was so beautiful it made me sigh.She's efficient, and there are elements of contemporary life in her books (this one touches on cocaine, of all things) but they're pretty timeless while giving you a strong sense of place.
I'm giving it four stars only because the pursuit at the end was a bit too much for me but I can definitely see myself rereading this in a few years, it's got warm characters, descriptions of food, coziness, gorgeous surroundings and suspense that never feels threatening.
This was a bit of a mixed bag for me.
When the story was good, it was very good and it prompted lots of side research.
I was fascinated to learn more about the famous Lipizanner stallions.When it was bad, it was painful.
The climax of the story took up the last quarter of the book, seemed neverending, and had people running all over the place.
(There was a car chase that went on for 20 pages – almost 10% of the book!) All the frenetic running around made my eyes glaze over.
I was relieved to finish this and move on to something else.
I love books from this era, or genre, or time period, or whatever. They're somewhat predictable, but nice. I'm not that into horses, but as to frantic games of cat-and-mouse on the crumbling roof of an old European castle? I'm in.
A reread of one of my all-time comfort favorites :)
Slower-paced than today’s frenetic thrillers, Stewart’s books offer readers a subtler, more leisurely and perhaps more nuanced experience.Stewart may be best known today for her blockbuster Arthurian saga (The Crystal Caves, The Hollow Hills, The Last Enchantment, The Wicked Day), but it was her romantic suspense novels which first gained her recognition.
But many things are not what they seem, for the man Vanessa believed to be Lewis turns out instead to be a Mr. Lee Elliot, and the fire in which two men died might have been deliberately set.There’s so much I love about this book, from the skill and subtlety with which Stewart builds the suspense to the wonderful characters to the charming and evocative setting in the Austrian Alps.
It was downright sinister."Once again Mary Stewart unfolds a masterpiece of inrigue, terror, and suspense in this headlong-paced tale of a yung wife's search for a missing husband ..."~~back coverI hadn't read any of Mary Stewart's romantic mysteries before -- only her Merlin trilogy and sequel, which I loved -- so this was an interesting first foray into her other work.
I don't have much use for the type of heroine who inhabits today's cozy mysteries: hare-brained, with no common sense and needing to be rescued by their love interest after they've done something very foolish & put themselves in harm's way.
There are various adventures along the way involving the mere humans in the story (sorry, can we all guess who I think is the main character?), a couple of murders, a few attempted murders, fights, fires, elephants run amok, and, of course a couple of pretty girls.I first read this book back when I was about 10 or 11--I was going through my "horse phase" that so many young girls go through and was reading every book that had a horse even vaguely attached to it.
So, I'll start with a warning that the heroine has a strong revulsion for one of the secondary characters because he has dwarfism.
She recognizes the irrationality of her reaction and it's only a couple of scenes, but it's still there.
I was kind of expecting a Gothic, but turns out it's a Cold War spy novel.
The "is he?/isn't he?" of the spy-ness is part of the plot, so I'll not give that away.
Quite possibly the most touching horse scene I've ever encountered (horses aren't my thing, but this one had me a little teary).
I wasn't sure if this was a mystery when I started it.
I liked it but I wouldn't reread it.
the plot was a bit weak and the end was semi spectaculer.
The characters themselves left much to be desired.
I liked the dwarf best then the girl in the news reel.
Lewis, Vanessa's husband wasn't all that likable.
I'm sure her fans will enjoy it any way but this wasn't her best.
In one instance I should have been fearing for the very lives of the characters, but I wasn't.
These stories are always so intriguing filled with romantic liaisons, dangerous twists and turns as our heroine dares to uncover the truth after she plunges herself into a number of precarious situations. Exotic locations, spies, deception, villains, castles,horses, and there's never a shortage of dashing men in Airs Above the Ground Mary Stewart. As writer I am inspired and as a reader I am always intrigued. So grab your passport and come along!
Austrian Alps, a traveling circus, the famous Lippizaners of the Spanish Riding School, a young boy who wants to join the circus, and a woman searching for her errant husband - this was another great Mary Stewart tale. I still have visual memory of a horse in a meadow gracefully executing the airy dressage movements known as 'the airs above the ground'
This is the first Mary Stewart I ever read. My mother gave it to me when I was about 14, back in the 70's. I was hooked on Mary Stewart's books from that time and read this one at least half a dozen times. I have revisited it after many years absence. It is still a good story, even though it now feels a little dated.
