https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15819774-the-mystery-of-the-blue-jar
Definitely shows that Dame Agatha Christie will always stand the test of time as the Queen of Crime <3
This book is very well written and kept my interest nicely. it wasn't a really scary mystery. it was short and the ending made me laugh. I really wasn't expecting what happened until the very end. If you're looking for a quick fun read, you will enjoy this book.
interesting, typical Agatha Christie twist at the end!
Great story. Really clever `villains`.
Great story. Really clever `villains`.
A clever, little mystery story albeit you might see the solution a mile away if you have read your Christie. The additional pleasure of Christopher Lee's excellent narration made it, all the more delightful.My Rating - 4/5
Really enjoyed it
As old-timey mystery stories go, I place Agatha Christie in the middle of the pack. She writes well, but there's not enough room in a short story to develop her characters or the plot line much. (Expect this identical review in each Agatha Christie short story I've read to far -- unless I find a real stand-out.)
A man hears mysterious cries for help. An entertaining short story.
The protagonist is far far too credulous.
Very interesting and descriptive, the ending punched me in the face. I wish I had Agatha Christie's imagination.
Nice. :)
Quick and enjoyable read.
WOW! HAHAHAHA
Good short story once you get into it. Classic Christie does it again!
Agatha Christie doesn't get enough credit for her excellent short stories. They're short, yes, but so effective and memorable. I loved listening to this with Christopher Lee's spot-on narration.
I very nearly solved it...nearly. The conclusion was a little bit convoluted, but still very enjoyable. Definitely recommend listening to this one, if for no other reason than Christopher Lee has the greatest voice, which positively vibrates through you.
Being in this collection makes the trick works really well on the reader. I loved how the whole story was so obvious yet so mysterious, definitely an Agatha piece of work.
Clever short story from Christie. Once again she gives you only the details you need then puts you right into the action where you must keep up till the end. What a great storyteller!
Very clever. Published in a magazine in the 1920s.
Short and goodThis is a very short story, but it has the typical Agatha Christie twist at the end! I enjoyed it.
Favorite Quotes: "All may not be as it seems, Mr Turner"
