https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8837.Wind_Sand_and_Stars
It deals with themes such as friendship, death, heroism, and solidarity among colleagues, and illustrates the author's opinions of what makes life worth living.عنوانها: زمین آدمها؛ زمین انسانها؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز نخست ماه سپتامبر سال 2002 میلادیعنوان: زمین انسانها؛ نویسنده: آنتوان دو سنت اگزوپری؛ مترجم: سروش حبیبی؛ تهران، امیرکبیر، 1350؛ در 168 ص؛ چاپ دوم: 1356، در سی و دو و 139 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، فرزان روز، 1377، در 190 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، نیلوفر، 1378؛ چاپ پنجم 1382؛ شابک: 9644481070؛ چاپ هفتم 1392؛ پاپ دیگر: تهران، علمی فرهنگی؛ 1393؛ در 265 ص؛ شابک: 9786001216275؛ موضوع: سرگذشتنامه نویسندگان فرانسوی - قرن 20 معنوان: زمین آدمها؛ مترجم: پرویز شهدی؛ تهران، مجید، به سخن؛ 1392؛ در 223 ص؛ شابک: 9789644530951؛ نقل از متن کتاب: در برابر این سرنوشت حقیر، یاد مرگی به راستی مردانه، در ذهنم بیدار شد.
I LIKE the traditional English title, Wind, Sand, and Stars, but the puns all get lost.
They'd get lost no mattr how you translate it, though.
In French, la terre is not just the world, the earth, but also earth, dirt, ground and land; there are puns on terrain--terraine, landscape--and territoire, territory--the word atterrir, TO LAND an aeroplane, literally means to alight on earth.
So all these things get talked about, man's relationship to earth from above and from ON the earth, but also you get quite a bit of the literal translation "world of men"--a plea for peace and for environmental moderation.
It was for this reason, why I read this other popular Antoine de Saint-Exupery’s book, Wind, Sand and Stars.
Later that year, it was published in the US as “Land of People” But when The Little Prince became a worldwide phenomenon in 1943, the US publishers changed the title to Wind, Sand and Stars maybe to establish its connection between the two books.
The National Geographic Adventure magazine also memoir as No. 3 in its all-time list of 100 best adventure-exploration books.For you who loved The Little Prince, read this book.
Considering some common details about a plane crash in the desert, the eagle-eye view of humans struggling to fill in huge empty spaces on a planet hurtling through a vast emptiness, the common themes of friendship, love, death, peace,  Terre des Hommes  is closely related to Le Petit Prince, the more famous novella about the boy who looks at earth with innocent and hopeful eyes.In structure, the novel pays homage to the early days of the Aeropostale, the first French company who opened up new routes of travel from Europe to Sahara, over the Andes in South America, to the Far East and beyond.
Αγαπώ ή μάλλον όχι, λατρεύω το Σαιντ Εξυπερύ.Νιώθω λίγο κουτή που μέχρι τώρα είχα διαβάσει μόνο τον Μικρό Πρίγκιπα θεωρώντας ανόητα ότι ήταν ότι καλύτερο έχει να προσφέρει.Στο «Η γη των ανθρώπων» μας αφηγείται τις πιλοτικές του εμπειρίες, όλες αυτές τις ολοκληρωτικές, αχανείς εικόνες ενός κόσμου που από εκεί ψηλά μοιάζει τρομακτικά απέραντος… Αυτές που τον μάγεψαν, τον ωρίμασαν και τον έπλασαν σε αυτόν τον μαγευτικό καλλιτέχνη.Και πόσο υπέροχη, σαγηνευτική αφηγηματική γλώσσα χρησιμοποιεί… Όταν θα νιώθω την ανάγκη να ταξιδέψω νοητά, θα ανοίγω το βιβλίο «Η γη των ανθρώπων», θα διαβάζω μια παράγραφο και θα φεύγω…«Κάπου αλλού ίσως οι άνθρωποι βυθομετρούσαν το άπειρο ή έκαναν τους υπολογισμούς πάνω στο νεφελοειδή της Ανδρομέδας.
Πρέπει να δοκιμάσω να επικοινωνήσω με μερικά απ’ αυτά τα φώτα που φεγγίζουν από μακριά μέσα στον κάμπο.»
If I had to choose between The Little Prince and this book, I'd choose this book, because in a way you can use it to derive Saint-Exupéry's classic. If The Little Prince is the diamond, this book is the coal: a hard-earned mass of adventure and experience. The book reads like a long letter from your most astonishing friend. Sublime.
The Little Prince is one of those books where you can sense the soul of the author and Saint-Exupéry's non-fiction books, like this one, let you see that your initial intuition while reading The Little Prince was correct.
Although this book was written after The Little Prince, the events of the book happened before Saint-Exupéry wrote his timeless "children's" book so it is possible to see in some of his adventures the seeds of that great book.
I understood then how the author could write a book of simple beauty and wisdom like The Little Prince.
When I read three books in a row where this book featured prominently (The Goldfinch was one) I felt the book calling to me.
For me, it was not the type of book that I could sit down and read in one go.
I wanted to mull and linger on the words, and to embrace St Exupery's words demands a kind of internal honesty and emotionality from the reader that can be freeing but also emotionally exhausting.
Still, an excellent book, and one I would suggest to anyone that likes a good adventure memoir or wants to question the human condition or spirit.
Out of oblivion the gold has been smelted: there it gleams in the lights of the airport.And yet we have all known flights when of a sudden, each for himself, it has seemed to us that we have crossed the border of the world of reality; when, only a couple of hours from port, we have felt ourselves more distant from it than we should feel if we were in India; when there has come premonition of an incursion into a forbidden world whence it was going to be infinitely difficult to return.
لطالما كان الحلم بأجنحة وهذا ما يفعله أكزوبيري الروائي الفرنسي الجميل صاحب الرواية الصغيرة الأمير الصغير الذي عمل لفترة طويلة في تجربة الطائرات فامتهن المغامرة هو ورفاقه الطيارين كما تكون المغامرة الحقيقية وها هو يقدم لنا تلك الأجنحة الطيارة لنسافر معه بعيدا ..ينظر من أعلى الحلم لكل تلك الأشياء الجميلة التي تبدو كالنقطة وتصبح في الأعلى لها معاني أخرى لا يدركها من تلمس رجليه الأرض ..
فكيف له بعد ذلك أن لا يتمنى الموت في الماء ..جاء السرد شاعريا غنائيا فلسفيا وروحانيا كلماته كأحلام العصافير المهاجرة وهو يرسل تحاياه للرياح للرمال للنجوم للجبال لأصدقاءه المغامرين في تلك الليالي الضبابية لكم أحببت هذا الكتاب ملاحظة ..
Antoine de Saint-Exupéry wants us to realize it.
He’s in the desert in Libya, three days without water, and he sees fantastic mirages—they are false, but they are something new only once, and he wants us to appreciate that.
In English this humanist adventure tale is titled Wind, Sand, and Stars, evocative but lacking.
There is no wind, there is no sand, there are no stars, if we are not there to observe them, or even more, to appreciate them.
Everyday can have a first, every person can be awake, if we remember every single moment that we’re alive on this sphere in the universe.
I find that reading books about plane crashes while physically in a plane really enhances the flying experience.
I read Night Flight by Antoine de Saint-Exupery (author of The Little Prince) on the way to Michigan and Wind, Sand, and Stars by the same author on the way back, both of which include plane disasters.
Both were exquisite, though not at all in the same way as The Little Prince, and both are about Saint-Exupery’s experiences as a pilot for the night-mails in South America and Africa during the 1920s and 1930s.
انسان بودن همان مسئول بودن است.
Susuzlukta, yalnızlıkta, açlıkta, merakta ve hürriyette bir olan şeyi; insançocuğunun ortak yazgısını.Ve düş kurmayı da;"Düşlerim bu kumullardan, bu aydan, bu varlıklardan daha gerçek." (s.57)Mesleği pilotluk olan yazarımız için, dünya bir bahçedir aynı zamanda; çocukluğunda dizini kanattığı bahçenin belki biraz daha büyükçesi!"Bahçenin öbür ucundan değil, dünyanın öbür ucundan dönüyordum, yalnızlıkların yakıcı kokusunu, kum yellerinin anaforunu, tropiklerin göz kamaştıran aylarını da kendimle birlikte getiriyordum!" (s.57)Mağribinin fukaralığındaki sadelik ve estetikte olduğu kadar (aklıma Marakeş'te Sesler kitabını getirir bu noktada); çölün, kumun ve yıldızların manzarası da pek müthiştir."Ama en güzeli, burada gezegenin yuvarlak sırtı üzerinde, bu mıknatıslı örtüyle bu yıldızlar arasında, bu yağmuru bir ayna gibi yansıtabilecek bir insan bilincinin durmasıydı.
به حدی که بعضی جاها منظور نویسنده رو متوجه نمیشم و اینکه باید چند بار بخونم16 تیر 1395بالاخره تونستم این کتاب را تمام کنم از بخش 7 کتاب( که دست و پنجه نرم کردن نویسنده برای زنده موندنه) تونستم باهاش ارتباط برقرار کنم و برای همین فکر میکنم یک بار دیگه باید برگردم و کتاب را مجددا از ابتدا بخونم ..دوسنت اگزوپری تو این کتاب نقش همان شازده کوچولو را بازی میکند ( و شاید شازده کوچولو از خودش متولد شده و همون موتسارتی است که نمیخواد در بچه ای بمیرد و از بین برود ) و سعی میکند نگاه کنجکاوی ب پدیده های دور و برش داشته باشه نویسنده در عین اینکه در تلاشه تا با زمین و پدیده های طبیعی اخت بگیره و کمی با انها خلوت کنه از انسان غافل نیست و انتهای کتاب را خیلی زیبا تمام میکند ..." ...
Kitabı okuduğunuzda Küçük Prens kitabının zihninizde tamamlandığını hissediyorsunuz. Ancak Küçük Prens'teki o masalsı ve sempatik tadı bu kitapta alamadım ne yazık ki.
But not only the nature of the world is worthy of attention and admiration - do not forget about the people.Exupery does not stop to admire the beauty of our planet, sand, mountains.
After all, how beautiful this man's ability - to make friends!Personally, I feel very sad realizing that many people did not find themselves, stuck in a routine, forget about true human qualities.
Мы видим как прекрасна наша планета.
Лично мне становится грустно от понимания того, что многие из людей так и не нашли себя,увязли в рутине, забывают о настоящих человеческих качествах.
A number of his experiences are described in detail, the longest and most vivid being his crash in the Sahara with his navigator, André Prévot, and their long struggle to survive until at last rescued by Bedouins.
His final essay is a long and beautiful philosophical reflection on the meaning of life.Probably best know for his novel Le Petit Prince, Saint-Exupéry wrote a number of other books, most based on his experiences as a pilot, all of them fascinating.
He is able to capture the allure and beauty of flying, especially in the early years of flight, in a way few other authors have.
This book was fantastic, literally...almost hard to believe that its is the author's real life. Crashing in the Lybian desert, life in the Sahara, looking for a lost friend in the snows of the Chilean Andes, and first-hand accounts of the Spanish Civil War. But most of all, it is a poetic book about the beauty of flying, connection with nature, how challenge and suffering turn the boy into the man, how meaningful bonds between humans form, the contrast between the comfortable life of a bookkeeper and the adventurous life. These messages always hit home for me.
The only book I have ever read by de Saint-Exupery is (and this will come as no surprise) The Little Prince.
I don't know much about the author, but when I saw a review for this book, it intrigued me.I am glad I read it.
There is full of philosophical waxing about man and his place in this world.
They shape themselves to man's needs and run from stream to stream ...
I am giving up the broad golden surfaces that would befriend me if my engines were to fail.
Lần này đọc lại, tôi có tham khảo, nhiều khi là đọc song song, bản dịch của Bùi Giáng, để sáng tỏ những chỗ khó hiểu.
Vậy mà cũng phải mất một phần ba cuốn mới bắt đầu vỡ vạc và càng ngày càng cảm nhận nhiều cái hay trong tác phẩm.
Dường như nguyên do của việc khó tiếp cận với cuốn sách bắt nguồn tư chính tác giả và vì vậy người đọc nước ta không hề đơn độc ở cảm giác mong lung, khó hiểu.
Bởi vì nhiều độc giả của bản tiếng Anh cũng la làng về cái sự khó đọc của sách này.
زمین انسانها نشون میده که چطور زندگی واقعی اگزوپری روی خلق شازده کوچولو تاثیر گذاشته. کتاب جهان بینیای رو طرح میکنه که در زندگی بیاندازه راهگشاست، به خصوص برای اونها که آدمهای بیقراری هستن... خط به خط این اثر رو میشه نقل قول کرد.
زمین انسان‌ها نشون می‌ده که چطور زندگی واقعی اگزوپری روی خلق شازده کوچولو تاثیر گذاشته. کتاب جهان بینی‌ای رو طرح می‌کنه که در زندگی بی‌اندازه راهگشاست، به خصوص برای اون‌ها که آدم‌های بی‌قراری هستن... خط به خط این اثر رو می‌شه نقل قول کرد.
از لطیفترین کتابهایی است که خوانده ام. گاهی انسانها به سطحی از وجدان و آگاهی نسبت به زندگی میرسند که درکش آرزو کردنی است و اگزوپری نزدیک شدن به آن وجدان و آگاهی را برای کسی که تجربه اش نکرده در این کتاب در دسترس قرار میدهد. شاید موضوع کتابها هیچ ارتباطی با هم نداشته باشند ولی والدنِ ثورو و یادداشتهای ایرلندِ هاینریش بل برای من این حس را دارند.
از لطیف‌ترین کتاب‌هایی است که خوانده ام. گاهی انسان‌ها به سطحی از وجدان و آگاهی نسبت به زندگی می‌رسند که درکش آرزو کردنی است و اگزوپری نزدیک شدن به آن وجدان و آگاهی را برای کسی که تجربه اش نکرده در این کتاب در دسترس قرار می‌دهد. شاید موضوع کتاب‌ها هیچ ارتباطی با هم نداشته باشند ولی والدنِ ثورو و یادداشت‌های ایرلندِ هاینریش بل برای من این حس را دارند.
Saint-Exupery's talent as a writer and beauty as a human being shine bright as desert stars in this brief, stunning memoir of his flying adventures. I am so glad that I finally got around to reading it, as it's been on my shelf for years. Highly recommend.
Very inspirational book that looks at flight from two very different perspectives: physical flight in a plane and spiritual flight from inside.
Một nhà văn yêu nghiệp viết của mình và yêu nghề chính (phi công), tôi nghĩ mình cũng chỉ mong có thế.Sách là những câu chuyện của tác giả trong hành trình lái máy bay chở thư băng qua đại dương và sa mạc, những suy nghĩ về nghề bay, về những người bạn đồng nghiệp mà tác giả yêu quý, con người, về sự sống, về ngôi nhà lớn của chúng tay: Trái Đất.

از اون کتاباست که باید موقع خوندنش علاوه بر قوه ی تخیل، قوه ی تقکر و تحلیل ذهنمون هم به کار بیفته و چه بسا که باعث شکل گیری ایده های جدید برای ما بشه و لحظات کشف و شهود شخصی برامون داشته باشه!
برای من که اینطور بود و از همون اولای کتاب نظر من در مورد مسئله ی مهمی کاملا تحت تاثیر قرار گرفت و تغییر کردیه کتاب پر از ایده های تصفیه شده و متعالی در مورد جایگاه انسان در جهاناز اونا که موقع خوندنش، دوباره لذت کتاب خوندن رو حس می کردم4ستاره برای اینکه بعضی جاهاش برام نامفهوم بودشاید به خاطر گم شدن معنی ها تو ترجمه، یا پیچیده تر بیان شدنشون بعد از انتقال زبانیچون ترجمه به خودی خودی خیلی خوب بودجزو کتابهایی که توصیه می کنم
در روزی که هواپیمای تهران-یاسوج سقوط کرد، خوندمش. بیشتر بر حسب تصادف بود این همزمانی اما با خوندنش هر لحظه میشد تصور کرد که 66 جان چطور از ما پر کشیدند. اگر چه شباهت چندانی نیست بین این داستان و سقوط پرواز هواپیمایی آسمان...
Mình đọc quyển này cũng lâu rồi giờ mới có thời gian review :3 Quyển sách quả là một kiệt tác của Saint-Exupery.
Nhiều người cho rằng Saint-Exupery là nhà văn thuộc trường phái hiện sinh, mình cũng đồng quan điểm.
Ông dành nhiều rất nhiều để viết về những gì thuộc về nhân sinh và đời sống của con người, ca ngợi những thành tựu mà chính con người đạt được thông qua việc vượt qua chính mình; vượt trên khả năng có hạn của bản thân mình.
