https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/552008.Scum_of_the_Earth
Scum of the Earth = La lie de la terre, Arthur Koestler, Kösztler Artúrتاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و هفتم سپتامبر سال 2004 میلادیعنوان: وازدگان خاک؛ نویسنده: آرتور کوستلر (کستلر)؛ برگردان: علینقی حجت اللهی؛ پوراندخت مجلسی؛ تهران، سپیده سحر، 1382؛ در 315 ص؛ شابک: 9647101260؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان اروپایی - قرن 20 منظیر آن جواهرتراش هرکولانوم که وقتی زمین شکاف برمیداشت، گدازه ها میجوشید و باران خاکستر فرومیریخت، با آرامش به کار خود مشغول بود. رابرت نیومن: کنار آبهای بابلبه یاد همکارانم نویسندگان

And there was Herr Birn, a German business man who had spent the four years of the Great War as a civilian prisoner in England and had learnt all the variants of the Italian opening by heart from the chess book and now, interned for a second time, learnt with the same German thoroughness the variants of the Queen’s Gambit, and yet, when it came to playing, lost every game within twenty moves.So there they are: the exotic offscourings of wartime Paris, all doomed by some combination of French malice and French inertia.
However, as the account continues and the betrayal and crass stupidity of the authorities and the disingenuous cowardice of those in power unfolds, the title switches in Koestler's mind and indeed in the mind of any right thinking reader to crown the ruling class of France in all its traitorous, heartless guilt.We journey through the first 18 months of the war being led by the experiences and raging anger and frustration of Arthur Koestler a Hungarian writer who through his experiences in the civil war and its aftermath in Spain has both a hatred of Fascism and of the totalitarian expression of Soviet repressive communism.
Or maybe the right place from a literary point of view, since he had plenty of life experience from which to draw in writing his most famous novel, Darkness at Noon, about a Russian revolutionary in prison.In Scum of the Earth, Koestler recounts his experiences of being interned in a concentration camp in France.
Helpfully, the French supplied the Gestapo with records and dossiers on the prisoners, so that there was no doubt about their anti-Nazi activities.Koestler writes vividly of the chaos in France following the capitulation.
In fact, the majority of such insights concern the mental and emotional effects of persecution and imprisonment, in many cases on men who have experienced this in one country or another for years on end, so that they have become, and all too often think of themselves, as the ‘scum of the earth.’ Koestler is an expert on the psychology of the persecuted, both by virtue of his own experiences, and his acute capacity to observe the people with whom he shares his fate.
Throughout, Koestler reminds readers of the people who, unlike him, failed to get away, many of whom will have ended up in the German concentration camp system by the time the book was published.
Being arrested and spending time in prison – for your political aspirations and standing up for your rights (free speech) – was considered the norm.Koestler eventually escaped from the camp and joined the French Foreign Legion with the help of false identity papers and made his way to England through north Africa via Portugal.This story is about an egregious moment in French history.
Personally, it held me captive.His reason for being in France during this important period of history was because he was writing his well known novel “Darkness at Noon” that was heavily influenced by his experiences as a prisoner in Spain.
Set from 1939 to 1941 the author tells how people fleeing facism, communism or both finally ended up in France by Sept 1939.
The French media branded them the Scum of the Earth,responsible for all the crime and other ailments of 1939 France.
They were put into concentration camps where few survived.This is the only book I know that mentions French concentration camps.
The prevailing mood in France was that Hitler would conquerBritian and Russia and with a mood of schadenfreude, the French were pleased with the thought.
Few thought Hitler would ever be defeated.
این کتاب بهنوعی اتوبیوگرافی یکسال از زندگی نویسنده است... تقریباً از اوت 1939 تا اوت 1940 ... مقطعی حساس و بحرانی در تاریخ اروپا و بالاخص فرانسه که در این زمان محل اقامت این نویسندهی پُرجنبوجوش بوده است. کتاب با مسافرت کستلر و دوستش به جنوب فرانسه آغاز میشود. آنها به دنبال جای آرامی میگردند تا در آن مکان، کستلر به نوشتن رمان تازهاش مشغول شود، رمانی که بعدها خواهیم فهمید، همان شاهکارش "ظلمت در نیمروز" است. جای مناسب پیدا میشود اما اتفاقات سرنوشتساز به سرعت از پی هم میآیند؛ شوروی و آلمان به توافق
کتاب با مسافرت کستلر و دوستش به جنوب فرانسه آغاز می‌شود.
با حمله‌ی آلمان به لهستان، فرانسه و انگلستان به آلمان اعلام جنگ نمودند و در این شرایط کستلر و دوستش به پاریس برمی‌گردند.
در پاریس پلیس خارجیان را احضار و بازداشت می‌کند و این قضیه شامل کستلر هم می‌شود.
او پس از سه ماه آزاد می‌شود اما با نزدیک شدن نیروهای آلمانی به دنبال راه فرار از فرانسه است و ...
عنوان کتاب برگرفته از اطلاعیه‌ایست که پلیس فرانسه در هنگام بازداشت خارجیان در روزنامه‌ها منتشر نموده است: «جماعت خارجی‌ها که در دو روز اخیر به وسیله‌ی پلیس هوشیار ما بازداشت شده‌اند سمبل خطرناک‌ترین عناصر تبه‌کار پاریس بوده‌اند.
Koestler, Arthur. SCUM OF THE EARTH. (1941). ****. This was the first book that Koestler wrote in English, and it chronicles his experiences at the beginning of WW II. He and the woman he was living with at the time, a sculptress, had moved to a remote area of France – she to carry on with her art, he to work on his novel, “Darkness at Noon.” When war broke out, however, he knew that they had to get out of France and over to England for their safety. In their attempt, Koestler ended up being de
Koestler, Arthur.
This was the first book that Koestler wrote in English, and it chronicles his experiences at the beginning of WW II.
In their attempt, Koestler ended up being detained in various prisons run by, respectively, the French, the English, and the Germans.
His treatment in the German camp was especially harsh.
He finally made it to safety after escaping the German prison after joining the French Foreign Legion using false identity papers.
Absolutely brilliant book. Koestler's ability to narrate his own travails and misfortunes as prisoner and refugee, as well as of all those persecuted at that time in France is quite astonishing. Yet even more astonishing is extraordinarily lucid understanding of the dynamics shaping French politics in the late 1930s (the 'sickness of the French body politic' as he called it) and his prescience about other coming developments there during the war. Don't read boring academic history books: read this.
The fall of France as witnessed by Arthur Koestler.
I made an exception for this since I really like Darkness at Noon and I know his later stuff is meant to be awful.
Koestler went to France with Daphne Hardy, who is G.
I also did not know that the French had decided to imprison all anti-Fascists when they got into a war with the Fascists.
The point he pushes is that they wanted to pacify Germany.
In any event, it is interesting to read those bits.It falls short in a couple of respects.
This is a very interesting book about a Hungarian writer living in France when WWII begins.
His account of his maltreatment as a foreigner is enlightening.
It was difficult some times to follow all the many political factions and movements going on at that time.
The book was written just after his escape from France while the war was still going on, and the timing brings a great sense of immediacy to the story.Strangely, although I have been trying to avoid recently written books on WWII because I am burnt out on that topic, I have found that books written by people who were there still attract me.
This is from a letter I wrote to my grandma Rawn in August 1997:"I'm reading a book right now called 'Scum of the Earth', written by Arthur Koestler. He was a Hungarian, former Communist, turned anti-Fascist journalist and author. This book is about his internment in France during the second world war, and how he escaped to England just days before France turned all their anti-Fascist prisoners over to the Gestapo. It's very interesting - he's a very good writer and he's very good at making people's ways seem ridiculous, whatever their beliefs."
I could not stop reading, although daily commitments forced extraction out of this account of an unforgettable, and unforgiveable, "true" story.
Reading is smooth, except two chapters introduced as almost verbatim copy of notes.
The shape of these two chapters is understandable (the author does not want to live again these times), but it is harder to read and prone to errors of interpretation (a few times I am not sure what the author actually means).Nonetheless a great book, and a great lesson.
Koestler's Scum of the Earth reminds of of Orwell's political writing at its best ("Shooting an Elephant"). A gripping memoir and a scathing critique of France in the run-up to that country's prostration before Hitler.
Koestler describes his life in pre WWII France, his arrest and imprisonment in Le Vernet Concentration Camp just prior to the German invasion of France, his release and escape from France and the many people he meets along the way.The scum of the earth were the liberal free thinkers.
The book’s strength is in his observations about the Spanish war and conflicts between political systems that occurred during the 20s and 30s.
This book is so much better than any other on this period and why France was a failed State in 1939 and the French race had degenerated because of laziness, selfishness, alcoholism and lack of national identity.
Like so so many books I have recently encountered reflecting on lives lived in previous times of social upheaval and conflict, Koestler's autobiographical window into the lives of the undesirable, the outcasts of Europe before the fall of France in 1940, catches glimpses of the fault lines in man's humanity that appear across the ages; glimpses of 1940 France seen today in our land.
This follows his experiences from internment to his eventual escape to Britain, and shows the utterly preposterous situations that he found himself in, as a result of mind blowing bureaucracy and the fact that the French government seemed more concerned at points at the threat of a communist revolution than it did of German invasion.
I don’t know enough about this period to judge whether his views about the moral collapse of France in the run up to the German invasion are fair or not, but this feels like an important book with a different, and, in my experience, not often discussed perspective.
Koestler was a complicated dude, and appreciating him is complicated by the fact that he was, at best, a serial sexual harasser (of women)....but this is bloody harrowing stuff.We see several exiles including Benjamin take the cyanide capsule rather than get caught, as Germany storms towards the Champs Elysee. After having suffered through his travails in Spain (where he was pardoned from execution at the very last moment), why, he wouldn't have left Europe earlier is a bit of mystery, but......that's totally with the benefit hindsight.This is harrowing stuff, and I know I would've shat myself several times over..........
Xenophobia - "...one must distinguish clearly between the popular origin of the mass psychosis, with its deep, mainly unconscious roots, and its conscious exploitation for political purposes. Hatred of foreigners, as such, seems to be the oldest collective feeling of mankind..." We've made no progress since 1941."In fighting the Communists, one is always embarrassed by one's allies."
"Nessuna morte è triste e definitiva come la morte di un'illusione. Il primo istante dopo aver ricevuto un colpo non si soffre; ma si sa già che la sofferenza comincerà presto." (p. 21)
A warning from history. How France, faced with the threat of Fascism, decided to lock up Anti-Fascists on 'public order' grounds.
"Scum of the Earth" is the description applied by the media to those aliens in blaming handy scapegoats.The book is valuable both for this perceptive description of what he saw and experienced, and for his assessment of why France was overtaken and occupied by Hitler's forces.According to Koestler, thanks to the riches of its soil France had become a country of bread and wine in an environment of steam and steel.
After the first World War, the wall changed character from one to protect not the national community but instead a privileged class in decay.Fearing revolution more than Fascism, a minority of politicians and officers were blinkered by class hatred and so became Hitler's fifth column.
This is one of those books that documents a time in history when most documents were destroyed or lost.
Fortunately, he is creative and has many friends and figures out a way to escape, unlike many others.He reveals the ways in which many of the French people helped the Nazis and treated all foreigners as "scum of the earth".
I had always assumed that the French resisted the Nazis, but that was not evident in his experience, though there were some exceptions among the people who helped him escape.
Interesting and informative depiction of time and place
Hungarian born journalist, writer, sometime communist and anti nazi Arthur Koestler, charts the outbreak of the Second World War through his own experience.
Koestler, along with other anti nazis communists and various persecuted groups from all over Europe, find themselves rounded up and interned by the French.
The story gets bogged down in parts with detailed accounts of the chaotic politics of the time and Kafka-like bureaucracy as the French establishment melts down in the months preceding invasion and the desperate confusion before final capitulation.
Great if you are an historian of the period; slightly laborious if you are not (in parts).

AK was a Hungarian journalist in the 1930’s who was trapped in France when Germany rolled in during the Spring of 1940.
He was placed in a detention camp, released, placed in another, escaped, join the French Foreign Legion under a false name so they would stop arresting him, then escaped to England via Marseille, Africa, and Portugal.
This is a true story, not fiction, written in 1942.
It is one of the Eland publications of the best ‘travel’ writing of the last 100 years.
Koestler's description of the treatment of anti-Fascist "foreigners" in France in 1939-40, the mistreatment by the French police and bureaucrats of people who had fought against the Nazis or in Spain and ended up in camps in France is worth reading by anyone interested in contemporary history.These shameful episodes of French history are rarely mentioned but are still topical today as debates over immigration and migration are current in so many countries of the world.
This book is so honest that the frustration and helplessness of the author at once challenges that humanity of the reader. The injustice of the idealists, the unfortunate, and the outcasts suffering in prison camps due to the ignorance of a Nation because of wartime hysteria has insights prudent for reflection for any age.
