https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31231.The_Matarese_Circle
What it lacks in literary aspirations it more than makes up for in sheer excitement and fun.Written decades ago, the story-line of Matarese Circle seems almost prophetic despite it being dated, the world finally catching up to the plot.
Brandon Scofield and Vasili Taleniekov have been on a collision course for decades, but now the Russian will secretly reach out to his deadliest enemy in order to prevent the Matarese from controlling the world.This is a lightning-paced spy thriller with more globe-trotting action than any ten others in the genre combined, yet on some level, it comes off as eerily plausible.
It turns out that the band of murderous criminals running the US isn't the Republican Party after all, but a different band of murderous criminals. I think a hot woman takes her clothes off at some point.Sorry. I know I shouldn't drop all these spoilers, but sometimes I can't help myself.
Scofield (the American spy) and Taleniekov (the Soviet) are both drawn as beleivable characters, sympathetic while you are "in their head" or reading their narrative section.Scofield and Taeniekov are both thoughtful people; they are "action types" but we see their motivations, what makes them tick, the series of events that have made them what they are, and, at times, the regret at what they have become.
You also are introduced to Antonia, one of the truly strong women characters from this era and in this type of spy fiction.Maybe not the best I've read, but certainly "top five"--if the politics that made these novels interesting has changed, the human drama and compelling plot keep it fresh.
my favorite novelist.his novels were fast paced and suspenseful and the action was second to none.cr
1.5Ništa gluplje odavno nisam pročitala...
In the early going, I felt very much for the characters of Scofield and Taleniekov (apologies if I'm not spelling that right--too lazy to look it up at the moment).
Ludlum intersperses increasingly deeper layers of the complicated history between the arch-nemeses and why their hatred for each other burns deep.
The novel is a masterpiece of spy intrigue and strategy, but there are deep interpersonal issues that captivate you as well.
Ludlum reveals the origins of the Matarese and their plan at just the right moment in the book.
Conspiracy theorists will love this book, as it provides rich fodder for discussion.
I loved this book.
The two heroes, respectively America's and Russia's top spies/espionage specialists, are sworn enemies to the death, but still see fit to team up to save the world (Mr. Ludlum doesn't do things by halves).
That's right, the whole world is about to be subjugated by a shadowy threat which the Russian agent just happens to stumble upon.
And to top it all off, both the US and Soviet governments are also doing their best, albeit unsuccessfully, to execute both agents.
Well, I told you Mr. Ludlum doesn't do things by halves.
Heck, it's a fantasy, right?
To cut a long story short, one could simply say, “This is Ludlum, what else would you expect?” if such a statement doesn’t capture the sheer brilliance of the man, I don’t know what can.
The Matarese Circle is an old book, written many years before I was born actually but regardless: One would think it a recent publication.
Ludlum whips up a tantalizing tale of high espionage, treason, murder with streaks of love as a counterpoint.
Reading the Matarese Circle has been a satisfying endeavor I would like to repeat with Ludlum’s other works.
Okay, this was an emotional book and tad bit sentimental. So good. Sure, Ludlum was an emotional writer. Half the time, I didn't know what he was ranting about. But his theories were fun. Now this sort of thing is more relevant than ever, the way shape of sounds are right now. What's happening is not right.This world, we don't need villains let alone heroes.
The first thriller I ever read. Made me want to be a writer. Great book.
Today’s recommended thriller, The Matarese Circle, is a fine expression of the standard Ludlum template.
Now, the secret society wants to move on to the next stage, that of complete world domination - and right now, they are awfully close to their goal.
How is our protagonist able to save the world from going to the hands of this nefarious secret society?That is the template.
The secret society, the Matarese Circle, has been able to infiltrate the American and Russian governments at all levels except for right at the top.
'The Matarese Circle' written by Robert Ludlum is a thrilling spy adventure of Beowolf Agate and The Serpent.
To be added more importantly that Beowolf Agate and The Serpent are sworn enemies.
These two legendary spies, past assets and current liabilities and sworn enemies have to stop The Shepherd Boy and his flock from their dream of dominating the  world and ultimately making the entire world as their flock.
I am writing about the similar theme of these two films and the novel because all of them left a question in my mind - Who holds the real control ?
3.5Two cold war spies and bitter enemies, both the best at what they do, Brandon Scofield from the United States and Vasili Taleniekov from the KGB, must set aside their differences and work together to stop a group of killers, known only as The Materese, from taking over the world.Now, what you'll get: an intricate cat-and-mouse game between Talienkov and Scofieldlots, lots of globe hopping as the story takes you to Scandinavia, Russia, France, Italy, the US, and Corsica, a love story between Scofield and Antonia, an inevitably gorgeous Bond-girl, and then lots and lots of action and espionage type-stuff and dead bodies.Why not more stars?
I enjoyed it quite a lot but it didn't make me want to read another Ludlum novel.
Robert Ludlum, has the same general scenario in all books, an estranged spy fighting some international corporation. Not bad, entertaining if you haven't read too many of his books. Moderately fast, fairly easy read
Really good plot, typical Ludlum atmosphere, but man, the dialogue is hard to get through sometimes. Every character seems to revert into this Perd Hapley mode when talking to other characters: "I have three things to say to you and the first of those three things is this..."
I'm getting close to having all the Ludlum books done and even though I really, really enjoy them it makes me sad knowing there will be no new ones.
This is like James Bond, only better.
Matareški KrugBrilliant written,full of plots,government behind a government,secret Agents.There is so much at stake that keeps your eyes on reading more and more.The Best Thriller and book I have ever read.An Amazing story !
Κινηματογραφική δράση, συνομωσίες και αγωνία...Δεν περίμενα κάτι λιγότερο από τον δημιουργό του Jason Bourne!9/10
Though I don't believe I lack the intelligence to comprehend a Ludlum novel, I too often found myself reading and re-reading pages over again, just do I could get a clearer picture as to what was going on.What's frustrating is that story of "The Matarese Circle" is very good: two brilliant, seasoned intelligence men (sworn enemies from fiercely opposing camps) have to team up in order to defeat a horrendous, extremely powerful foe who threatens to destroy the world as they know it.
I was given this book by my dad whom had read it more than a decade ago; the french edition which was nonetheless spectacular.
It starts in Russia but there will be no borders as you will be taken for a joy ride across most of Europe to America.
I was given this book on a Monday but had already finished it by Weekend.
I felt so trapped and engaged that I would read 8 chapters on some nights.
Even though it's a fictitious book, i learned many elements of Russia's history and America's, politics in general.
If you are ever planning on becoming a Ludlum fan, then read this book and be dazzled.
This is the best follow-up book after his Bourne masterpieces.
The interaction between Brandon Scofield, CIA operative and Vasili Taleniekov of the KGB is the best I have ever read so far.
Their mutual hatred which turns to respect is unprecedented.
I was never really present during the so called Cold War, but this book transcends you to those spy world days.
The title was actually inspired by a steak house in Newington, Connecticut.
And here I thought Robert had spent nights trying to come up with the perfect name.
A decent espionage story, though the themes seem both tried and tired. Many others have expounded upon the Russian vs United States during the Cold War and have done just as good if not better. The espionage tactics are entertaining but fairly rote. Ludlum does good work but this certainly isn't the Borne trilogy.
An international group of assassins are determined to take over the world. Rival spies from the CIA and the KGB must work together to defeat an eneny of their respective countries for the good of both.
I read this some years ago when I had just discovered Ludlum. This is a good conspiracy that's in charge of everything action adventure. Plots and counter plots, nothing going as planned leading to a violent climax and escape. Good read.
Certainly one of Ludlum's better novels. A conspiracy so much larger than life. A classic. And supposedly they are making this into a movie.
One of the best escapist thrillers I've ever read.
I say 'escapist' because novels by the likes of John Le Carre and Alan Furst can also be considered thrillers, but are more of the thinking variety; they don't feature the globe-trotting action and suspense you'll find here.
"The Matarese Circle" is the first Ludlum book I've read.
This book was published in the late 70's, and it features the kind of melodrama (example: too many exclamation points) that was the industry norm for the time.
It also features a romance that feels forced and superfluous.
Very fast-paced action thriller that keeps you on the edge for the whole book without suffering from any serious pacing issues.
Very dialogue-centric; this seems to be Ludlum's strength, writing how the characters actually talk and interact and demonstrating the relationships among different characters through their speech.
This book has an somewhat outlandish and slightly communist premise.
The attitude of this book is somewhat reminiscent of the anti-merger/trust buster movement of the early 20th century, but this does not reveal itself in earnest until the final third of the book.
Lettura un po' faticosa, per il linguaggio utilizzato e per la realtà descritta, che è quella degli anni '80, la Guerra Fredda, CIA e KGB che si fronteggiano in ogni angolo di mondo, Berlino ancora divisa tra Est ed OvestLa trama è interessante, piuttosto lineare, senza clamorosi colpi di scena, ma con una verità che viene svelata passo dopo passoIn definitiva si tratta di un libro non imperdibile, certo non tra le migliori opere di Ludlum
This is probably the closest you can get to a swashbuckling experience in terms of a Spy Thriller. Its engaging with its own share of adrenaline rushes. The fact that a lot of emphasis has been put on understanding the cultural data points of the regions talked about coupled with the unusual hostility of the cold war makes it an irresistible read. It is close to what might have happened in the Cold War in terms of espionage.Must read if you salivate at the mention of thrillers like these.
