https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89656.C_is_for_Corpse
Review  4 of 5 stars to C is for Corpse. Another fun adventure with Kinsey Millhone. But this time, she's got a case that's twice as hard because the person who's hired her has a bit of amnesia from a recent accident. But he's certain someone's trying to kill him. What's always interesting about Kinsey is how she charges for her cases, and when she chooses to work or not work. For example... she gets an upfront retainer which will keep her paid for a week's work. But then when the person who h
Another fun adventure with Kinsey Millhone.
But this time, she's got a case that's twice as hard because the person who's hired her has a bit of amnesia from a recent accident.
What's always interesting about Kinsey is how she charges for her cases, and when she chooses to work or not work.
But then when the person who hired her actually dies in another accident, she's got money left.
and he's found someone this time, but Kinsey's not sure how she feels about it.
I write A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544]	[polldaddy poll=9719251]
The best out of the three I have read so far but the first two were slightly spoiled by the fact that I listened to them on audio and felt that the narrator gave Kinsey a very unfortunate voice.
This time I read a paper copy and Kinsey's voice was much nicer:)So far this is a very easy to read series with interesting mysteries which can be solved by an alert reader.
Or you can just sit back and enjoy it and let Kinsey do the work.
Sue Grafton never failed to impress me before, and this time is no exception.
It was an entertaining fast-reading book, and once again, I couldn't guess who's the killer till the end.Kinsey Millhone is hired by Bobby Callahan, a young man who had a car accident which caused him heavy injuries and a partial amnesia.
Yet he's convinced that it was not an accident, and someone was trying to kill him, and he asks Kinsey to find out who.
A few days later, however, her client ends up dead.
So Kinsey take it upon herself to avenge Bobby and find out the truth.
Kinsey's voice and personality really resonated with me, which is pretty disheartening since so many reviewers seem to find her unlikeable.
I love Grafton's use of words.
I love pretty much everything about her writing style.
She doesn't "cheat" and pull a killer out of the hat on the second-to-last chapter as so many bigger-name authors do.
We nearly always meet Grafton's killers in the first chapter or two.
Kinsey is resourceful and smart, kind of like a hard-boiled Nancy Drew.
She's also (unlike Nancy) riddled with faults, which is probably why I relate to her so well.
This is so far the best of the A and B and C that I have read of Kinsey.
It's fuller and less of Kinsey in her down time ruminating over details that sometimes are not necessary, but they do round her out and give you a nice complete picture of just who she is and where her strengths and weakness are.
Enough said.Having said that, I do need a break from this series which I think I will pick up down the track when I have fewer 'urgent' books calling out to me and much more time on my hands.
Absolutely brilliant. The investigation was a good one and we see a more vulnerable and emotional side to her. I loved the way she dealt with Henry’s case! The end denouement was pretty creepy as well as exciting. Best one yet.
“I hope, wherever he may be, that he sails among the angels, untethered and at peace.”This is the third book in the series and my favourite so far. Kinsey's personality is softened and likeable. I liked Henry's subplot and liked Bobby's story too. This book was entertaining, a fast read and kept me engaged to the last page. Looking forward to the next book in the series.
"C" is for Corpse finds Kinsey investigating the claim of an injured young man that his car accident was actually a murder attempt.
Working for Bobby Callahan draws Kinsey into a tangled mix of life insurance claims, cold-case murder, and prescription drug abuse.
To balance out the sad storyline, there's a semi-comical subplot involving a golddigger taking advantage of Kinsey's hunky octagenarian landlord, Henry.
She also crafts a suspenseful scene when Kinsey sneaks into the golddigger's room to hunt for clues.
However, the climax, which also involves Kinsey sneaking somewhere for clues, drags.
Kinsey Millhone manages to get herself mixed up in death and drama again.
This time she manages to solve two very different crimes.
Her landlord gets himself wrapped up with a suspicious character so Grafton includes another kind of crime as a side to the main.
I'm only on "C" of Grafton's alphabet and Kinsey Millhone series and already going from 3 stars to 2.
I do give kudos to Grafton for managing to make the killer unsuspecting for the majority of the book.
Kinsey, the P.I. star of the series, is already wearing thin on my nerves.
Great writing, better development with characters, a nice side plot involving Henry and Rosie, and a great ending.
Kinsey gives you her particulars and goes into how she was hired by a young man (Bobby Callahan) to try to find out who tried to kill him several months earlier.
It's the first book that goes into the accident that leaves Kinsey orphaned.
I do like how Grafton has characters from earlier books show up in the later ones.The writing was great and flow smooth.
I forgot how much I loved the earlier books that included a succinct prologue.
Another fun entry into the alphabet murder mystery canon!
I love the walk back in time to pre-internet days; I love the writing; I love private investigator Kinsey Millhone and her irreverent, wise-cracking, sometimes self-doubting, but always successful ways; I love the recurring characters with a capital C; and I'm sad that Grafton wasn't able to complete the series before her death.
These mysteries are like snacks in comparison to the meaty main courses served up these days.
(Although I must note that later entries in the series clock at 12-17 hours.) Snack-like as they may be, they are never over-stuffed and always satisfying.
Having lost some of his memories and cognitive faculties as a result of the crash, he can only vaguely articulate why he thinks someone wants to kill him, referring to some information in a red address book which he can no longer locate.Kinsey takes the case despite little information, having taken a liking to Bobby.
Kinsey eventually finds out that the woman with whom Bobby was involved was his mother's friend, Nola Fraker.
She has a blackmailer, who is in possession of the gun with Nola's fingerprints on it.Trying to investigate further, Kinsey realizes that 'Blackman' is code for an unidentified corpse in the morgue.
Along the way, there were some striking lines, some fast dialogue, and not too much guns-blazing action (which is a relief).
There's more than a trace of Chandler and even a little Carver in the way she deals with her well-known but completely made up California town and its crazy, ritzy inhabitants.There are two mysteries afoot: one, the investigation of a near-fatal crash that's left the son of a rich family a shell of his former self; two, the not-for-profit mystery of where her landlord's new girlfriend has come from (and what she may want).
Loved it!! I never see the twists or turns and it was a real page turner. I love Kinsey and her no nonsense attitude. I felt sorry for Henry, but glad about that part of the story.
The prose and pacing are pretty good, the characters are a bit thin, dialogue okay, the mystery adequate, but the book feels heavily padded by descriptive passages (although nicely observed and written). I'll try another by Grafton, but I'm not optimistic.
Book on CD read by Mary Peiffer3***Book three in the series starring private investigator, and former police officer, Kinsey Millhone, has her investigating two cases simultaneously.
I also like that Grafton has set these books in a time period where Kinsey has to do quite a bit of old-fashioned leg work – going to the library or city hall to comb through old records, calling a friend to find out about a license plate, etc.
Sure, today’s detective would rely more heavily on a computer and state-of-the-art technology, but I like watching Kinsey use her brain.Mary Peiffer does a fine job narrating the audio version.
The third in the Kinsey Milhone series.
C is for Corpse by Sue Grafton, was a bit more edgy than the first two in the series.
Kinsey meets Bobby in physical therapy.
Bobby thinks someone deliberately ran him off the road that night.
He also thinks he is still in danger.
But, only a few days after Kinsey begins her investigation, Bobby is killed in an accident.
Kinsey feels she owes it to Bobby to continue the investigation.
I am looking forward to seeing how the rest of this series plays out.
Kinsey is hired by Bobby, a guy who thinks someone is trying to kill him, and he wants to know who.
Bobby had been in an accident that left him disfigured, but he's convinced it was not an accident and whoever tried to kill him still wants him dead.
Unfortunately, the accident also caused Bobby to lose some of his memory, which makes it difficult for him to try to figure out who wants him dead.
Kinsey takes the case, buy Bobby ends up dead a few days later.
Kinsey doesn't leave cases unsolved, so she keeps working to find out who wanted Bobby dead.The 3rd book in the Kinsey Millhone series.
Good stuff. An intelligent, exciting whodunnit that I didn't start figuring out until the last couple of chapters. The language is very dated now - why is that the 1980s can sound more dated than the 1950s? - but it doesn't really matter. A good story is a good story.
I’m just loving these books right now. C IS FOR CORPSE is another book in the Kinsey Millhone Alphabet Mystery series by Sue Grafton. In this one, we get a little more of a gritter story. Kinsey is hired by twenty-two-year-old Bobby Callahan who has just survived a near fatal car crash when his Porsche is forced over a bridge and into a canyon. Bobby has lost a large portion of his memory, but he can’t help but shake the feeling that he knew something before and that the crash wasn’t an accide
I’m just loving these books right now.
Kinsey is hired by twenty-two-year-old Bobby Callahan who has just survived a near fatal car crash when his Porsche is forced over a bridge and into a canyon.
But just three days after Bobby hires her, he dies in another crash.
Now I’m a Romance reader at heart, but there’s something about these Mystery novels that gets me going.
It puts my brain in a different mindset and I think that’s a wonderful thing to break up the Romances that I read so much of.As I read each book, I’m falling more and more in love with Kinsey’s character.
Another good solid read from Sue Grafton.Kinsey Millhone is hired by Bobby Callahan just days before his death.
He had been involved in a horrific motor accident that left his best friend dead.
Only Bobby is convinced it was no accident, he is sure it was an almost successful attempt on his life.The problem is Bobby lost large chunks of his memory in the accident.
All he can remember is being pushed off the road, and that he needs to find a little red address book.
And then he is dead.
But Kinsey is determined to complete the task Bobby hired her for.
I continue to enjoy this series.
Another great ending for this book by Sue Grafton. She is still learning to to build plots. I did not think anyone of the the victim's family or friends had caused hid death. It was a quick read, only 190 pages.
The crash left Bobby with a clouded memory.
But he can't shake the feeling it was no random accident and that he's still in danger…The only clues Kinsey has to go on are a little red address book and the name "Blackman." Bobby can't remember who he gave the address book to for safekeeping.
And any chances of Bobby regaining his memory are dashed when he's killed in another automobile accident just three days after he hires Kinsey.
As Kinsey digs deeper into her investigation, she discovers Bobby had a secret worth killing for--and unearthing that secret could send Kinsey to her own early death…"2011 No 147
While working out at the gym, PI Kinsey Millhone is approached by a young man who was in a horrific accident 10 months ago take took part of his memory.
He doesn’t think it was an accident but attempted murder and he wants Kinsey to find out why someone would want to kill him.
She just begun when tragedy strikes.
Can she solve this 10 month old puzzle?Another strong entry makes it easy to see why this long running series is so popular.
The plot moves along well, although I did figure things out a bit before Kinsey did.
Three books into the series and I am loving Kinsey Millhone!!
I loved this book and would have given it 5 stars except I liked the character Bobby too much and was too sad when he died.
It wasn't a surprise and that's not a spoiler as it says this on the back of the book.But Bobby was so likable and I really wanted him to find his way to thrive in his new reality post accident.
I wish the storyline hadn't involved him dying.All that aside, I loved this book and can't wait to start on "D is for Deadbeat"!
This is my first Sue Grafton book, and I think I may be a fan. Having just had to bail on another mystery writer (Janet Evanovich) who just didn't appeal to me, it was a pleasant surprise to discover Ms. Grafton...writes well, is amusing without being silly, and writes interesting, engaging characters. Well plotted, good pacing and fun to read...what's not to like?
In Sue Grafton's C is for Corpse, the third installment in the Kinsey Millhone mystery series, this caper has some twists and turns with a shocking ending.
When Kinsey met Bobby Callahan at the gym to do rehab for her wrist, he hired her to work on the case.
She agrees to sign on and learns more about Bobby's life, including knowing the people he worked with, friends, and family.
At the same time, Kinsey learns that Bobby died in a car accident.
In the end, she had nipped two complicated cases in the double-edged bud with a shocking climax.
I love the way Sue Grafton tells a story, I get sucked right into the case and don't want to put it down. I love that these books are a bit outdated now as well because some of these older technologies Kinsey uses to investigate, gives great reminiscent visuals :) I will definitely keep reading the series, I enjoy the story telling. Good Read!
I am continuing with this “alphabet series” which has been popular for a long time but which I only recently started.Kinsey meets Booby Callahan, a young man who works out at her gym on a punishing regime.
Bobby believes it was not just a prankster or a drunk that ran him off the road but that the accident was actually an attempt on his life.
He is banged up, bewildered and scared to death.Kinsey likes Bobby.
It is also nice to have Jonah reappear from the last book.Once again, Kinsey is almost killed once she has solved the case.
