https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/910594.Corto_Maltese
The close-ups may look from time to time sloppy and rushed (as did some of Frank Miller's), but they never fail to capture emotion, which is the main thing in the end.Corto Maltese will go from Escondida to new adventures all around the world, wherever the salt seas and the trade winds will push him, and I am keen to follow in his footsteps.
One of the greatest graphic novels ever by the Italian Hugo Pratt, The Ballad on the Salt Sea is a beautiful black and white inked comic with the swashbuckling dark and handsome mercenary sailor Corto Maltese with his alter-ego Rasputin. The art and text are both Pratt's. I saw an expo here in Paris where they filled an entire room of the handwritten proofs for the book - total nerdgasm. This is probably my favorite Corto tale, but use it as a gateway into his mysterious but amazing world. An absolute classic.
Kao klinjo, podrazumeva se, verovao sam u to da je sudbina kreirana, da nismo sami odgovorni za sve - a kako bismo inače u tom dobu prihvatili tako strašnu činjenicu da lažljivi manipulatori sa kompleksom supermena neće biti kažnjeni za svoja (ne)dela, već da isti mogu dogorati do pozicije predsednika - da postoji neka viša sila koja odlučuje.
Pored toga, u tom svetu koji je stvorio, imamo niz "stvarnih" likova, čitav dijapazon fenomenalno osmišljenih aktera koji idu toliko daleko od obične podele na dobre i zle da je njihova karakterizacija na nivou velikih književnih dela.Ako bih ljubitelju muzike, bez obzira na njegov ukus, pod pretpostavkom da nije slušao Mejdene, preporučio bih mu da presluša drugi album, isto kao što bih ljubitelju književnosti preporučio da čita Hugo Prata.
Corto Maltese is a privateer/pirate in this 1967 introduction to him, set in 1914 in the Pacific, and involves swashbuckling type adventure characters such as a guy named Rasputin, Monk, shipwrecks, kidnapping… its an adventure story!
Fun stuff, and pretty darned chaste for a pirate story, I'd say, as a single young girl (shipwrecked, imprisoned by pirates for ransom from her wealthy parents!) makes it through the whole tale without so much as being kissed, though she is the eye candy in this one, no question, and you need that as part of the genre, of course.You know, I never read books like this and I found it entertaining.
Germanii recurg la orice ajutor, aşa că personajul Călugărul, şeful unei insule secrete dar şi al unei bande ciudate de piraţi, se oferă să îi ajute.
Alături de Călugăr, un personaj cu faţa necunoscută şi cu un trecut tot atât de misterios, se află băştinaşi, canibali, Corto şi nebunul violent Rasputin.
Călugărul are ceva din patosul violent şi puterea unui personaj celebru din romanul Inima întunericului de Joseph Conrad.
Iar Rasputin e Rasputin, un tip plin de remuşcări şi îndoieli, care poate ucide şi râde în acelaşi moment.
Un tip care caută în zadar prietenia, lăsând doar cadavre în urma sa.Ah, şi mai e şi inocenta (sau nu) Pandora!
Falsch gedacht - auch die französische Fassung ist eine Übersetzung, nämlich die des italienischen Originals.
Die FAZ-Ausgabe in ihrem winzigen Format bringt die Südseestimmung nie so rüber wie die großen Panels dieser Ausgabe.Witzig ist das Vorwort von Umberto Eco, der die Zeit- und Ortsangaben der Erzählung mit scharfer Analytik auseinandernimmt, und zeigt, dass die Protagonisten eigentlich selbst nie wissen, wo sie herkommen und hinfahren - und sich daran aber gar nicht stören.Ansonsten gilt immer noch für mich: Man muss ein bisschen Geduld mitbringen, sich dem langsamen Rhythmus und der von Eco diskutierten allgegenwärtigen Unsicherheit anpassen.
Δεν με παρέσυρε το συγκεκριμένο. Απουσιάζει ενα σαφές ψυχογράφημα των χαρακτήρων, και εξαιτίας αυτής της απουσίας η ιστορία παρουσιάζει νοητικά κενά και άλματα. Όπως πληροφορήθηκα ειναι το πρωτο κόμικ στο οποίο πρωτοεμφανίζεται ο Κορτο Μαλτεζε και προφανώς ο Hugo δεν ειχε καταλήξει με σαφήνεια στο ποιος χαρακτήρας θα πρωταγωνιστήσει, και αυτό φαίνεται. Πολλές φορές οι διάλογοι κουράζουν και σε μερικά σημεία υπάρχει πολυλογία. Για κάποιο λόγο ομως σε κάνει να θέλεις να διαβάσεις και αλλες ιστορίες του ήρωα.
Edição comemorativa dos 50 anos do aparecimento de Corto Maltese, limitada a 1000 exemplares.Com capa mate e verniz cartonado, conta com o prefácio de Umberto Eco e um caderno introdutório com aguarelas a cores.
Una storia affascinante, un disegno impeccabile e dei personaggi disegnati con maestria.Una lettura da fare assolutamente!
Há nesta balada muito mais que a história simples que nela parece viver. O poder do Monge, a insubordinação de Rasputine, a determinação de Cain, a sensatez de Pandora e a aura de mistério em torno de Corto Maltese tornam esta novela gráfica a preto e branco, de traço coerente e realista, uma verdadeira história de personagens, mais do que da intriga pirata que se desenrola. http://leiturasmarginais.blogspot.pt/...
Um dos maiores colossos da história da BD, e possivelmente, uma das grandes histórias da literatura do século XX, no que aparentemente se assemelha a uma "simples" história de piratas. É sempre um prazer regressar ao universo de Corto Maltese, e reler este álbum em particular.
Ja definitivno nisam osoba koja je imala neke neostvarene, dečačke snove za kojim bih žudeo da se obistine u nekom trenutku ali čitanje i upotpunjavanje kolekcije knjiga i stripova "Korto Malteze" serijalom predstavlja jedan veliki izuzetak.
Jedina dostupna izdanja su bila ili preskupa ili nedovoljno tretirana s poštovanjem koji je uticao na njihov spoljni izgled a prvi tekst koji sam pročitao o Prattu, pre nekih desetak godina, mi u startu nije dao mira da se jednostavno pomirim i prihvatim kakvo god izdanje da mi prvo dopadne šaka.
Ne želim da prepričavam jer sam ostao bez reči tokom čitanja ove prve od dvanaest knjiga koliko će izaći u naredne dve godine.
AMAZING!I was forced by a friend to read this... i though that a book released between 1913–1915 was going be to very outdated and boring, but how wrong was I! Is terrific, with very "grey" and interesting characters, really good storyline and an amazing "villain". Will read more for sure.
Ne volim Korta i ovim čitanjem sam to potvrdio.Hteo sam da još jednom pokušam,da vidim šta ovog juna
Corto Maltese is the eponymous character of a series of adventure stories by the late Italian comic book master, Hugo Pratt.
This book, ‘The Ballad of the Salt Sea’, is not chronologically the first Corto Maltese story, but it was the first to be released way back in 1967.
Since then, Corto Maltese has retained a loyal following in France, and this debut adventure has gone on to become one of the country’s favourite books of all time, coming in at #62 on Le Monde’s “100 Books of the Century” list as chosen by the French public.‘The Ballad of the Salt Sea’ is a pirate adventure story with a very distinct European comics feel.
Si Tolkien nous parle avec poésie du désenchantement du monde, Hugo Pratt montre que le réenchantement est toujours possible. L'errance et l'aventure, les mythes du passé qui resurgissent à tout instant à la surface de la réalité moderne, l'élégance du hasard… Avec Corto Maltese, Hugo Pratt invente un héros romantique total en plein XXe siècle. Sans conteste, celui que je rêvais de devenir à 17 ans ! ;-)
I had read a lot of european comics before I bought this, but this was the first graphic novel. I was captivated from the start.One out of four books I consider as essential for the person I have become. The other three are George Orwell's "Homage to Catalunia", John Fowles' "The Magus" and Michael Dibdin's "Cabal".
Sto cercando l'opzione sei stelline ma non la trovo.
re-scaled & re-structured translation version (not the new IDW one) hurts the work and shows how important page and format is in comics
Corto Maltese gelmiş geçmiş en “cool” çizgi roman karakteri olabilir: Vatansız bir yarı-korsan; ama acımasız değil ve kendine göre ilkeleri var; görmüş geçirmiş biri ve hiçbir şey onu fazla şaşırtamıyor.
Dünya Savaşı başlarında (1913-1915 yılları arasında) geçen çetrefilli bir macerada ilk kez tanışıyor; bu ilk macera 1967-69 yılları arasında yayımlanmış.İtalyan çizgi romancı Hugo Pratt’ın yazıp çizdiği bu çizgi roman klasiğinin bence en önemli özelliği, edebi tatlar içermesi; sanki bir Joseph Conrad veya Herman Melville romanı okumuş gibi oluyorsunuz.
Un lettore navigato - è il caso di dirlo - non troverà molte difficoltà nel prevedere tutti i possibili esiti della storia.
Ciononostante la storia mantiene una sua carica emotiva, trasferendo le nostre menti in un'epoca non troppo lontana, ma che assume, grazie all'esotismo, i connotati di un mito.
Maltese è il comune mortale che, nonostante le sue debolezze, cerca di sfruttare la sua intelligenza per rendere le cose meno peggio.
In questo ambiente, gli uomini sono lasciati soli e l'eroe contemporaneo può solo limitare i danni, poiché il finale della tragedia è già stato scritto.
Era aprile 2003, ero in corriera e stavo andando a Praga: la gita dell'ultimo anno.
e stavo piangendo come una fontana, proprio a causa della Ballata.
Mi era rimasto un ricordo molto forte dell'opera e, per questo, non ho mai avuto il coraggio di rileggerla.
Leggevo un po' di pagine e poi mi fermavo.
(Sì, mangio i cereali come spuntino di mezzanotte!) Per quanto i disegni mi piacciano molto, non sono riuscita a legarmi ad alcun personaggio.
Però è anche vero che non ho sentito gli stessi sentimenti provati nel 2003.
Questi non me li ricordavo proprio.
I received "Corto Maltese" as a gift from a comic loving Italian.
According to him Corto is a bit of a "cult comic"-an Italian classic, beloved by many, not only for the amazing characters and adventures, but also for Hugo Pratt's stunning artwork.
That's right- the story has no main character, sidekicks or a comic relief.
Although, at times I found it to be a little confusing, I think this might have been done on purpose, again, to go with the ballad style.
5 stars!And my favorite character: I like Corto, but Rasputin is hands down my favorite!
Korto Malteze je poslednji romantičarski junak, moreplovac, lutalica, istodobno i plemenita duša i antiheroj.Hugo Prat je mnogo od svog neizmernog znanja i iskustva utkao u ovaj lik koji, kako kaže Umberto Eko u predgovoru, čak i liči na njega. Odnosno sa godinama je sve više počinjao da liči na njega.Priče su prepune pustolovina, potraga za blagom, upadanja i uplitanja u razne ratne sukobe, koincidencija -- očito, namernih -- je koliko i u kakvom pikarskom romanu.Upoznajte se, ako već niste, sa ovim svojim novim prijateljem koji će vas rado povesti u neku novu avanturu.
Pomijam już wagę serii dla gatunku i wyjątkowość akuart tej części, ale sam klimat opowieści obudowany pięknymi kadrami z charakterystyczną sylwetką Corto, fajką w ustach, mewami nad wodą... To wszystko tak bardzo niedzisiejsze i nie do powtórzenia, a jednocześnie tak bardzo kanoniczne, że naprawdę trzeba poznać.
Iako sam do sada samo slušala o Cortu Maltesu, ovo je prvi strip koji sam pročitala. I malo je za reći da sam oduševljena! Sjajna priča i prije svega humoristični prijevod nekih fraza me doveo do suza! Još jednom, oduševljena!
Corto Maltese is among the few classics of 20th century European comics to still get a lot of attention to this day. I think the enigma of Maltese himself and the fantastic draft work of Pratt is responsible.To me the adventure was very long and rambling - similar to a Tintin story, but without the frenetic energy. I didn't really get into the story very much, to be honest. I would like to read another Corto Maltese book before coming back to this one.
Hugo Pratt’s work is gorgeous!
When I lived in France, I was too poor to buy copies of his bande dessinée so I collected postcards of his work to decorate my walls.
This is the first Corto Maltese story that I have read.
Corto Maltese is a not entirely trustworthy, but fairly likeable pirate whose Ballad of the Salt Sea finds him in the islands north of Australia just prior to World War I.
Pirate, solidier, civilian, privateer, mysterious crime lord – all cross paths on the high seas or islands around New Pomerania.
Everyone takes turns betraying each other, and characters are killed off quickly and surprisingly.
Hugo Pratt, is like Lorenzo da Ponte, the Mozart librettist a Jew of the Venetian ghetto.In "fables of Venise" , he pays homage to the hidden courtyard where is learned Hebrew and 22 alphabet letters tells you an history.I read all his books, but I choose this one because it's the first one.
Obviously he was influenced by the comics American and especially Milton Caniff.I saw the original boards at an exhibition.
There is this impossible love with Pandora.
After he goes everywhere in the world with nostalgy of lost love.
There is humanism, faith in man.This is not comics, it's graphic novel, a great novel
This book left a mark... months after reading it, I can see how my dreams and ambitions have changed due to the influence of Corto; I live in a 400 years old brazilian city on an island, and everytime I cross the bridge over the river to the historical sites, I think on Corto and how he would love to be here a century ago;
