https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1157019.My_View_of_the_World
Despite my ignorance to much of what I'm sure was second nature knowledge to Shrodinger, it was a pleasure to get a glimpse of his view of the world.
As the fish is the last to discover the water, this book seems an attempt to explain and get a handle on that which is essentially not meant to be fully grasped.
Whether it is an attempt at grabbing a fist full of water or shaping a nice glass for which the reader to sip the shapeless contents, it is plain to see Shrodinger gave some thought to the nature of that which his science could not explain fully.
Coming from a man of science, this book(or rather two essays written 35 years apart) is fairly good at giving an insight into his view of the world. Schrödinger discusses metaphysics, reality, language and understanding with clarity.I, as a student of science, was interested in what he would say of all the metaphysical and mystical tones about which his work must have compelled him to think. Very nice.He called himself unmusical. Your mind was awashed with the other kind of waves ES!
Its hard to understand why Shrodinger's work is important in this day and age, but none of our modern conveniences would be possible without advances by him and others such as Heisenberg.
The IR-spectrum experiment, which was dependent on the Shrodinger equation, revolutionized chemistry and paved the way for modern science.
Literally ALL modern conveniences come from these experiments in one way or another.In his book, Shrodinger uses vivid imagery and anecdotes to put his own scientific work in the context of the daily lives that we care about.
Some parts I understood, some just went over me. But it was interesting to see a scientist talk about philosophy.
É necessário um conhecimento muito específico para que uma tradução seja realmente o que o autor quis dizer) E conforme a leitura vai passando, ele adentra nas filosofias mais "praticas" relacionadas a consciência; Chega a tocar no assunto de que a mente poderia ser a criadora do mundo exterior, seu ponto de vista sobre os sânscritos hindu das Vedas e Upanishads, percepções do mundo exterior, o interior, a moralidade humana se baseando bastante em Kant, nature/nurture, sempre com uma atenção para não misturar a metafísica com a física (apesar de muito tentadora).E por fim, na segunda parte, uma visão geral das religiões e de certa forma, os limites dos seres humanos.
A última barreira do conhecimento.Feynman, por exemplo, se aventurou mais profundamente nesse mundo das percepções, consciência, mundo, mente, etc.
Apasionante en muchos aspectos, pero difícil de leer por su elevado contenido en filosofía; nombres desconocidos, que probablemente pertenecieron a filosofos famosos de ese tiempo ahora sumisos en el olvido.
Entré a este libro pensado que encontraría un punto medio entre ciencia y metafísica, pero me he encontrado con un severo ejercicio filosófico con el fin de exponer sus ideas y a la vez cubrirse de ataques.
La primera mitad del libro brilla completamente, aunque ese brillo se opaca conforme pasa la mitad y por seguridad elige posicionarse hacia un agnosticismo escéptico que chirría frente a su previa exposición Panteista.
i liked it, thought his use of vedanta interesting, his references to russell, wittgenstein, hume, less engaging as it is not my usual sort of philosophy. interesting sources/parallels could be useful investigating, this is a good example, perceptive, it is not that philosophy is destined to become science, but that science is destined to become philosophy...
fabulous
Schrödinger riconosce che la prima versione è più 'comoda'; essa spiega più facilmente ed economicamente come gli individui possano essere tanto diversi nelle loro esperienze, eppure riportare in maniera tanto coerente l'esistenza di fenomeni condivisi; la seconda richiederebbe invece un'indagine non ancora compiuta, a causa della grande complicazione che si innescherebbe tra le relazioni interpersonali se fossero considerate come differenti aspetti di un'unica entità 'pensante'.Ciononostante, tale 'teoria dell'Identità' dovrebbe essere preferita in virtù "dell'altissimo valore etico e del profondo conforto religioso che quella dottrina ci offre nel tempo effimero della nostra vita." (p.102) Certo, dare un senso alla propria vita è una delle sfide maggiori di questa nuova era secolare; debbono per questo i principi della ricerca scientifica essere messi da parte?
This wasn't written to be a book. It's not clear if it was written to be shared at all. Certainly it wasn't edited. Just the thoughts of an extremely bright and insightful man, who above all was honest with himself, as well as honest with his reader, which he would define as the same thing. Naturally, for we are all just "facets" (but expressly not "parts") of the single unity of consciousness. Brilliant and unpretentious.
Amazon 2008-07-26. Sung to the tune of the Super Golden Crisp jingle: Can't get enough Erwin Schrödinger; he's got the wave that pays!
Чудесная книга, в которой Шрёдингер рассказывает о своём (мистическом) воззрении на мир. Его взгляды оказались весьма схожими с индийскими учениями адвайта-веданты.
