https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6333646-james-potter-and-the-curse-of-the-gatekeeper

Lippert breathes life into characters not usually explored, and revisits others in humorous ways (Moaning Myrtle).I am extremely interested to see if he develops the story of the Grey Lady, especially her death/past, as well as maybe a ghostly relationship between her and Cedric?
Who knows, maybe he'll even give us a sneak-peak into the Headless Hunt we lost Nearly Headless Nick to in the first book!
Even though she wasn't a central character in this novel, I would happily read anything Lippert has to write about Judith, as well as the relationship between her and Merlin, and Merlin's behavior before falling in love with her, etc.
I don't think he is a good writer, since the book was filled with unessecary dialogs that annoyed me so much.
Salazar Slytherin didnt want muggle-borns, so he never had one...And Scorpio is so annoying...
After all, I know by heart what Harry did and if I have forgotten it I'll just get my book and read it, I dont want Lippert to remind me every 5 minutes.plus, The known characters seem a lot out of place.
He talked about them as if they were total strangers..(his father, okay, even if this was weird too, but SIRIUS?) And I kind of felt bad...I dont like those books...
When the Harry Potter book series finished it didn't quite dawn on me that it was 'the end', I knew I could quench my magical needs by just watching the films, but that was until the last instalment of the Harry Potter film came out.
I read the first book in the series 'James Potter and the Hall of Elders Crossing' in a matter of days, maybe 3 at the most and I had to say overall G.Norman Lippert had me quite impressed.
Not to self, get a thesaurus.So overall I am really enjoying the James Potter series so far and would truly recommend them if, like me you 'loved' Harry Potter and are really going to miss them.
I plan to read his original work.The characters evolve, growing over a year at Hogwarts.
Elements of the HP books form the backbone of the story but the modern muggle world gives us a current feel, and a slight technological, scientific descriptive undercurrent works well.
In he second book, time travel plays an important part quite effectively.
As does the integration of Merlin's story.
And the way Hogwarts history is enacted, playing out scenes that were mentioned in HP stories, ties things together so nicely.I recommend reading these stories.
The characters in this novel didn't react to the death in what I felt was a convincing or even realistic manner.Writing J.K. Rowling into the novel as the character Juliet Revalvier, and referring to the real-world Harry Potter novels within this book was far too meta.(view spoiler)[James' trip back 1000 years to the founding of Hogwarts, and his interactions with the founders was silly and unnecessary.
It was annoying in the Harry Potter novels, and it's annoying in the James Potter novels.The writing for the conversations in this book seemed a bit less polished than the previous one.
It's very irksome to hear 11yr olds and 12 yr olds talking about horcruxes and hallows left, right and center as if it's nothing more than showing the finger!Lippert has decided that Rose can replace the wisdom of Dumbledore instead of creating a whole new character or utilizing the Canon ppl like um..I don't know...Harry, Ron Hermione?This has a silver screen shebang more than cohesive story telling.
To create Harry, Hermione and Ron like trio...the Author actually had to make Rose do advanced levels in her classes and sit with James in all his classes to talk.
G. Norman Lippert produces yet another enjoyable book in the James Potter series.
I enjoy the way he introduces historical characters (Merlin, Ben Franklyn, and others) into the Potter world.
He also slyly inserted even Ms. Rowling into the books as one of the new professors at Hogwarts this term as an author who is known for fictionalizing the Harry Potter stories.
The second year at Hogwarts begins for James Potter with a stunning performance by the Sorting Hat. There's a Malfoy in Gryffindor and a Potter in Slytherin!
The characters are well-developed, and I often forget I am not reading the original series by the original author.
Samuel Johnson (the dictionary man) once famously said to a young author whose book he'd been asked to review that there were parts of it that were good, and parts of it that were original.
Cedric Diggory, for example, returns as a ghost, and struck me as completely unlike the canon Cedric Diggory in every possible way.Again, the setting elements that are original, like the hiding place for Merlin's cache, are well-described and interesting.
The elements taken from canon are often subtly or unsubtly wrong, or are left vaguely described because, of course, all the readers will know what they look like.
Since I enjoyed the first book of the James Potter series, I decided to read the second sequel as well! It did take me a fairly high amount of time of searching for this book, however, it was definitely worth it. G. Norman Lippert creatively continued the stories of J.K. Rowling by writing from Harry's son's perspective, renovating and reliving the settings in the iconic Harry Potter series. If you tend to enjoy the fantasy genre that takes place with Harry Potter's life, you'll enjoy these series too!
When Merlin speaks, I hear Optimus Prime in my head...
“None of us were kidding when we said we wanted to have enough kids to make a Quidditch team, were we?” I feel so bad right now.This book worths 4 starts,it was much much better than the first one but something pulls me off,maybe the fact that in some parts was slow.I find myself really..."Strict" when it comes to this series and I don't know why!Something tells me the third one will finally get the 4th star but no promises people.Overall,G. Norman Lippert like I said in my previous review of t

Ok huge spoiler ahead right now, so if you absolutely don’t want to know, stop reading now and read my review after you read the book.
And another big shock is to find Albus getting into Slytherin and Draco into Gryffindor.You know, it’s nice to read something not so predictably.
James gets a lead role and its fun to read how a world drowning in magic has to do without it.So there is the big finally where the human host is discovered, trying to kill Lily, James younger sister and they defeat the gatekeeper.
In the Harry Potter books when everyone returns home, that’s the end.
And I'll give this one little spoiler to show what I mean: Albus falls into leagues with the "Dolores Umbridge Jr." character that is Tabitha Corisca and from her learns how to cast the Death curse and manages to do it successfully in addition to learning the type of magic that in the original series Harry didn't even begin learning until he was 14--which was done sort of like a crash course to ensure his safety in the Triwizard Tournament, and it was implied that it was still a little "early" for them to be learning about such a subject.This wouldn't have bothered me so much if Albus wasn't an eleven year old who has barely learned how to float a feather by the brief snippet into the education of a first year we got in the first Harry Potter book.
There's a bit too much foreshadowing, in my opinion, so that it's quite easy to tell who's good and who's bad in the story.
I mean, there were points when I had my doubts, but the course of the "evidence" wasn't enough to sway me from my predictions, which were right.
He's simply from a different time period, with different perspectives on what's right and wrong, respectful and disrespectful, etc.
So, yeah, it was a bit too much foreshadowing for me, but overall it was a good story.
Everyone's smile was crooked, and you really want to slap the hero around for the first half to two-thirds of the book.
I guess he's supposed to be young and stupid and all, and that's very authentic, but I think a reader is also supposed to relate to the hero of a book.I also don't think the old characters are very true-to form.
I'm really looking forward to reading Girl on the Dock (a spinoff story of one of the characters) and the third installment of the James Potter series.
Ok I have really mixed feelings about this book, most of the time, I was laughing so hard because of

Obviously, if you read Harry Potter, it is usually not the obvious person who is the true villain.In this story, James returns to Hogwarts along with his brother Albus and cousin Rose Weasley.
Scorpius becomes an invaluable asset to the trio as the plot thickens and Rose begins to understand that Malfoy may be the key to defeating the evil threat of the year...Lippert's writing style is still mesmerizing in it's own way.
While the story definitely follows a similar recipe as Rowling's second Potter novel, there is a flavor of his own.
(I think the first one got a bit bogged down in the technomancy stuff.) I think the dynamic that Rose, Albus, and Scorpius brings to the story is something we Potter fans find familiar.
I actually gasped aloud when Scorpius Malfoy was sorted into Gryffindor and when Albus did in fact end up in Slytherin.
I got giddy when Scorpius actually helps Rose and James throughout the story almost as if he is what Neville Longbottom was to Harry and gang.
If nothing else, I wonder what will happen to Albus and I'm curious as to if little brilliant Lucy (Percy's daughter) will end up in Ravenclaw.
Of course, all fanfiction should be credited if characters from the original books are being used.As said in the review of the first book, Lippert has managed to recreat the wizarding world for us, continuing on with the stories and adventures that happen in Hogwarts.
With the characters of the last book, you learn new things that make you bond with them more and either love/hate them.Some mysteries begin to arise and once more James is set a task worthy of a Potter.
"James Potter and the Curse of the Gate Keeper (James Potter, #2)" is a continuation of the adventures of James, Harry Potter and Ginny Weasley's son.
But there are changes from the last since this time around, he's joined by his younger brother, Albus and his cousin, Rose (Hermione's daughter).
The big issue this time is trust: should James and his friends trust the new Hogwarts Headmaster; should Merlin trust James?
Scorpius?Book Details: Title James Potter and the Curse of the Gate Keeper (James Potter, #2)Author G.
then another scene made me wanna cry (but i didn't) and another made me gasp out loud (the sorting).but as the story progress, there were few surprises and i finally feel that it's a different world.
it's just that there were scenes and reactions that i don't think would be appropriate for certain characters.
how could Harry and Ginny have a son like that?
stupid and gullible!but other than some stupid complain from a big harry potter geek like me, this novel is worth the read.
The way that everyone is traced back to the Harry Potter books is pretty well done, and how things from the past have other meanings like the mirror of Erised.
In case you can’t tell by the end of the book it’s based off Harry Potter number two (Chamber Of Secrets).
There are a lot of deaths which go with the end where the mysterious gatekeeper tries to use to get a new host to begin his new world domination with: Petra, Tabitha, Voldemort, Harry, or James.
(ps he kind of did continue it by telling the story of Petra in "the girl on the dock")
If there’s ever any more new books to the Harry Potter series, this is the closest it can get.
You just need to forget the fact that it’s fanfic and simply enjoy this next generation of the Harry Potter world.
:DIf you enjoyed the first James Potter book, you’re going to find this second book much much better.
I really hope there’s a third book.
There is still much left unanswered, and questions like "What did that ending scene mean?" and "What's going to happen to blahblahblah?" and "And what about him/her?" are going to kill me sooner or later.
The story can't definitely end here, can it?
En realidad su nota sería 7/10 que para mi siginifica que se lee agradablementee pero no hay nada especialmente reseñable.Son mas aventuras en Howgarts de los hijos de Harry/Ginny y Ron/Hermione.
En la linea del libro anterior de James Potter que es totalmente continuista con los de Harry Potter.
Por increible que parezca es incluso más llevable al cine que los de su ilustre predecesor Harry Potter.En resumen, que si le leéis bien ...pero si no lo hacéis no pasa nada.
¡Ah!, sí, se me olvidaba : es el segundo de James Potter.
Imprescindible haberse leído el anterior.

The sequel is just as good as his first book, James Potter and the Hall of Elders. I highly recommend this to anyone who enjoyed the first book. I highly recommend both of these James Potters books to any Harry Potter fans open to reading a sequel. Having missed the end of the original, I've thoroughly enjoyed the fanfic sequels and they were done incredibly well.
3.5. A much better story than the first James Potter. However, entirely too many "crooked smiles" for my taste.
James Potter and the Curse of the Gatekeeper (James Potter #2), G. Norman Lippert
