https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/702590.A_Many_Splendoured_Thing
Questo amore sarà anche stato meraviglioso, ma è altresì di una noia mortifera. Più interessanti, invece, i capitoli in cui l'autrice si sofferma sulle tradizioni cinesi in generale e in particolare la situazione venutasi a creare ad Hong Kong nel 1950, dopo il consolidamento della rivoluzione.
The Eurasian protagonist's painful identity-seeking and swaying between two different, often contradicting cultures, are present throughout the book.The book has a rich historical context.
Because she knew both sides, could see from both point of views, her pain was greater than her sister's, for she wanted to consolidate her two worlds, instead of choosing just one.
The conversation between Han and the arrogant European "protector" of her sister concerning her sister’s child is most appalling:“Your uncle wanted to kill that child, they tried to poison her”“In China the life of a girl baby is not so valuable as all that.
And the dialogue is just really unnatural; it works in some places, but not others.Malayan Chinese shout-out!
Was amused by how her Malayan Chinese friend said "man" all the time.Anyway, useful and interesting as a glimpse of the times (1950s Hong Kong through the eyes of a Eurasian Chinanese who hangs out with Chinese and European people).
I also found interesting the parts where she talks about deliberately choosing to be Chinese instead of trying to fit in with white people.
L'amore tra Suyin e Mark può apparire poco travolgente, un po' sottotono, un amore senza grandi esplosioni, senza esibizionismo, molto silenzioso e nascosto. E questo mi è piaciuto molto perché rappresenta perfettamente come l'hanno vissuto loro nella realtà: in sordina, senza poterlo sventolare ai quattro venti, solo le persone più care ne erano a conoscenza e lo stesso non tutte approvavano questo rapporto. Era una cosa personale e intima, da vivere intensamente solo tra loro due, perché nessuno avrebbe capito, nessuno avrebbe approvato, nessuno gli avrebbe reso la vita semplice....http://appuntidiunalettrice.blogspot....



I loved the atmosphere conjured up by Han Suyin's writing. Images, poetry and Chinese philosophy threaded together to create a subtle backdrop to a deeply human story of two lovers, caught between their diverse backgrounds and war.I shall probably revisit HS' world at some point
Was hoping to like this book more. This may the one case where the movie is better than the book. A lot of repetitive concepts that made me start skimming. Really enjoyed the descriptions of 1950 China and Hong Kong though. Those were the highlights.
Beautiful, lyrical writing with a deep, intuitive mix of sentimentality and logic. A moving story, and, as it was written in 1950/51, the in-the-moment perspective was enlightening.I found this book on the street in Queens, and am happy to have picked it up.
Han Suyin gives the reader a complex account of cultural harmony and disharmony in Hong Kong and China. Informative and, at times, shocking. Well worth reading.
Ve ne sono grata.Real vote:3.5Recensione anche sul mio blog:http://pleaseanotherbook.tumblr.com/p...“L’amore è una cosa meravigliosa” è il romanzo più famoso di Han Suyin, scrittrice a metà tra il mondo occidentale e quello cinese, un connubio di esperienze e sentimenti che la hanno portata a scrivere questo libro tra l’autobiografico e il romanzato.
Suyin è una donna forte, una euroasiatica, vissuta a cavallo della Seconda Guerra Mondiale e quel periodo storico sconvolgente che l’ha seguito, che per certi versi è stato anche più spaventoso, la cortina di ferro, la spaccatura di due mondi, l’emergere sempre più feroce del comunismo e quella Cina dai contorni secolari, una tradizione indissolubile, un tradizionalismo che sfiora il fanatismo, una tempra morale che non riusciamo ad immaginare.
It is an interesting read and made a nice change from my usual fare but I did find the writing a little stand offish (cold would be too strong a term but its heading that way) which meant that I didn't really connect with any of the characters or get fully involved with the story.
Ignoring this the writing was vivid and did recreate the more factual side of the story well, you never know others may find this packed with emotional content and I'm just too heartless to read between the lines!
It's a pity that not many people knew Han Suyin.Powerful and heartwrenching.CONTENTSIntroductionPrefacePart 1: ONSET1.
Exodus from China2.
The Kingdom of God3.
Rich Man Poor Man4.
Gay Encounter5.
The Mind's Conjunction6.
Destiny's Puppy7.
Shanghailand8.
Unleashing Trouble9.
The Goldfish10.
Suzanne11.
Treasure Hunt12.
The Nets of Fate13.
Decision14.
Macao Week-End15.
The Proposal16.
The House of WisdomPart 2.
PROGRESS1.
Return to Chungking2.
My Sister Suchen3.
Acadia4.
New East, Old West5.
Moment in Chungking6.
Hongkong Profiles7.
The Moon Feast8.
Mark9.
A Good Day10.
Armour Profane11.
All Chinese Together12.
Let the Sea Roar2.
Between Sea and Land4.
All Your Houses7.
The Sea-Wet Rock8.
Land of Morning Calm10.
Usually I know what I am going the read before having the book; by suggestions, recommendations, knowing the author...
After I understood it was a diary and I got acostummed to Suyin's cautiosly writting style, I felt immersed and fiting with the story which allowed me to understand it in, my opinion, better way.
Culture, history, philosophy and thinking ways clashes are also really involved in the work and when understood it allows you to empathize more with the story.Once I finished it I realised that the long descriptions and slow telling aimed to give a better taste to the end of the story.
I think its an amazing piece of work!!!
I am amazed at the author's detailed and accurate approach towards describing the conditions of that time, how she she spent her life during the chinese civil war and everything else!!!
The way the story goes on makes me feel more attracted towards the story!!!
Amazing plot!!
A unique love story of a chinese doctor and an english journalist.!!!
But at some points I feel that the writer had taken it too far!!!
At some points I feel too much description was not needed!!!
They must read its a beautiful love story!!!
This was a very long and difficult book to read.
It did cause me to become very sympathetic with the constant upheaval in the lives of the Chinese.
The way these people were made to live was unbelievable.
The love story part with Jong and Stephanie were a nice touch, but I would have preferred to have read a little bit more about these two main characters.
I would only recommend this book to those who do not mind reading long stories about the political battles of China.
Good obit of author, Han Suyin, in Nov. 11, 2012 LA Times: http://articles.latimes.com/2012/nov/....Just watched the 1955 movie, Love is a Many Splendored Thing, with Jennifer Jones and William Holden based on this largely autobiographical novel. If you love classic 40s and 50s (tear-jerker) romances like I do, you will love this movie. They don't make them like that anymore, sigh . . . And the song - so romantic! I would love to say more, but I don't want to spoil it.And now, I am really intrigued to read the book, especially since it is autobiographical.
I don't know why this book is introduced as a story about a man.
I read it as a story of a woman!The emancipated heroine tells the story herself.
She is single mother and working and living in Hong Kong, not the land she was born and raised in.
I think she is quite a strong person.
In love with a married man from a different culture, who is away a lot to work in dangers.I got the book from my grandfather.
Sometimes I'm not sure if he's just handing down overstock, or likes me to read what he thinks is worth it.
Really great. Han Suyin skillfully blends autobiography and fiction in her account of a doomed romance between a Eurasian woman and an English journalist in Hong Kong right before the Chinese Communist Revolution. Besides being written in just the sort of outdated prose I like, it also offers a completely unsentimental perspective on love and on the complexity of straddling two different cultures as a woman of mixed race during a time of political upheaval. It’s just a flat out interesting story, written by an equally interesting woman.
I've read this book twice.
Once a long time ago and recently and it has not lost its allure for my love of a good romance mixed with historial fact!
This book has all the elements I love.
A young doctor does her residency in Hong Kong and her husband is killed fighting the commununists.
leaving her to raise a daughter face the Red army and an outbreak of tuberculosis throughout Hong Kong.
In the madness of it all, the young physician falls in love with and English correspondent who is married to a woman back in England.
A wonderful read.
A book I read a very long-time ago but that I remember quite well. An interracial love story set in Hong Kong during the political turmoils of the fifties - based on the real-life events of the writer. The book was a gigantic success and became a famous Hollywood melodrama. It may have aged a bit, and I vaguely recall it being a bit long, but who knows, I was young when I read it, and I imagine that what made the story such a success- its emotional content- has remained intact.
A largely autobiographical novel about a love affair between the author and a foreign correspondent. Not 'just' a tragic love story though - the tale is explicitly and thoughtfully connected to the social and political context of the times (1949-1950 Hong Kong/China), and the author's experience of a cross-cultural romance. The writing is not great, but the content has much honesty and perception at both the personal and social-political levels. 3 and a half stars, shading towards 4.
a semi-autobiographical story of Han suyin's time in Hong Kong. Half chinese and half English she was a doctor in a Hong Kong hospital during the 1950's. She was accepted by most of the British society until she met and fell in love with an american journalist. A wonderful love story especially when you remember that it is based on truth.
Although based on a true love story from Han Suyin's own life this was technically fiction. It was a beautiful story, an amazing book. Han Suyin, in my view, had genius. Some of her books are more 'worthy' than this, but this is a tragic story of a powerful love that I think would be remembered, even without the film.
Astenersi i romantici fan del film, la storia d'amore è presente ma qui è da apprezzare lo sfondo. Ottimo romanzo che approfondisce il complicato contesto sociale a cavallo tra la tradizione e il nuovo regime comunista, visti con gli occhi euroasiatici della protagonista, a metà tra il vecchio mondo cinese e il vecchio continente.
As with "A Many Splendoured Thing"...I Read this book long ago. I was impressed. I love it!Unfortunately I had to leave it where I was living at that moment.If someone would like to share this book for another that I may have... please let me know! Thanks everyone.
"I grew up with books and my parents were avid readers. My father would quote Tennyson and was a fan of authors from Leslie Charteris, who wrote the Simon Templar The Saint books, to Han Suyin and Dostoyevsky." - Sumiko Tan
my chanse was to read its french translation.chose a very delicated phrases came from her feminie sprit and chinis culture.
bought today 1 of 12 books for $10 the lot.
