https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11479285-breathe
I don't mind some amount of cheesiness, a lot of YA books have some bits, but here I wasn't sure whether to cry or laugh out loud, every page was drooling with lovesick babbling.
I know that when you read fantasy there is the supernatural element that doesn't make it real as well, but underneath the surface is supposed to be "some deeper message or thought" usually slightly pushed away by the romantic plot and whatever.
But in contemporary fiction where there is no fantasy background to distract you there should be more focus on the characters and you should take something out of the story.
I did not expect it and was sure that it was going to be very simple as in Sadie meets Jax (Rock Star) but, no, she meets someone else first.
It wasn’t bad because the fact that the main character wasn’t in love with both guys was a good thing and kept me from hating the love-triangle.Sadie…I was sure I was going to love her.
As much as they may love each other, I’m still sceptic.I enjoyed the fact that it was short for the cheesiness was too much for me to be able to read this kind of book if it had 300 pages or so.
I wanted to try this author in another genre to see if my issues were somehow related to the paranormal theme of her Existence trilogy.I think Abbi Glines comes up with great concepts/ideas.
I like rock star stories, so it was a no-brainer that I'd want to try out Breathe.If about 10% of the book had been cut (mainly the female's self-bashing and some of her interactions with Marcus, even though I liked Marcus as a character) and a few of the flowery sentiments reigned in, I might have liked Breathe...well, at least a little bit more.This is what knocked the rating down for me : "You're my...air."I frowned at him.
Now, Sadie finds herself taking her mother's job working for the famous teen rock-star Jax Stone.
To have Jax, who is constantly being fawned over by girls around the country, tell Sadie that he didn't know this was just a tad bit too unrealistic.
Plus, he tells Sadie that her finding him attractive because of his kindness makes her  unique!
Jax's housekeeper even tells Sadie that she should have called him the one time she happened to be late for work because she was with her pregnant mother in the hospital!
Little does Sadie know that this is the home of the very famous, drool-worthy, Jax Stone, the teen-heart-throb singer.
Sure, she knows who Jax Stone is, but she's got bigger things to worry about than swooning over some spoiled teen rock-star.
Sadie was such a good and kind girl with a big heart.
She is like the mother Sadie never had, so kind and loving (I teared up a little at the end because of her) and Mr. Greg the elderly gardener.
It centers mainly on Marcus, but Jax and Sadie are in there too.
Clear case of Mary Sue-ism and taking the templates of Twilight's Bella and Edward into the world of "rock 'n roll".
The girl didn't even use contracted words for the first half of the book for fuck's sake.Edward Jax was perfect in every way but tortured over his inability to shield his lady love from the bad things in his life.
And let's not leave out the hospital stay where Edward Jax has to bring Bella Sadie out of her coma by promising to stay with her forever.If you're looking for barely disguised schmoopy Twilight fanfic without the paranormal element, you'll adore this.
However, someone has to pay the bills and sending Sadie to work in her place seemed like a good idea.Working as a domestic servant for a wealthy family, Sadie never in her wildest dreams expected it to be the house rockstar Jax Stone spends his summer at, trying to escape his hectic lifestyle.
He soon starts showing interest in Sadie, for she's like no one he's ever met before.
He wasn't sweet, let alone perfect boyfriend material - no, he seemed to be obsessed with Sadie, rather than what I'd call being in love.
I don't expect much from these books, but sympathetic characters are kind of important, and the only characters I could bring myself to sympathize with at all were the peripheral characters (NOT Marcus, I didn't like him much, either).
Sadie manages to earn her place on the staff and quickly discovers that it is the family home of teen heartthrob rock star Jax Stone.
Jax Stone is the modern YA cliche'; rich, devastatingly hot, oh-so-sweet....and let's not forget, creepily obsessed with Sadie.
The one-liners in this particular romance far surpassed my expectations, however.
The main reason for Jax (aside from how much he likes Sadie's looks) is that she's "different" from any of the other girls he's ever met.
*Re-read December 2015This is the first Abbi Glines book that I've read. It's nice to re-read this book only in its updated version. Now, it is told in dual perspective (the first edition is told only in Sadie's perspective) and there are additional scenes that leans more on the "New Adult" side (the old version is more of Young Adult because there's no "intimate" scene on it) which I find better because it matches the rest of the series. As always, it's a guilty-pleasure read and you can read this in one sitting.
Her awful selfish mom is pregnant and doesn't feel like working anymore, so she forces 17 year old Sadie to take over her job as a housekeeper in order to pay bills.
These past two weeks it's been as if you control my breathing."45% of the way through (their first kiss):The lips of the only boy I would ever love touched mine, and I forgot where we were and everything else around us.47%:I've never met anyone who has seen past the star and found the real me inside (Keep in mind, they have had NO conversations about anything other than Jax being a rock star.
What with its poor girl who doesn’t think that much of herself, that and the fact that she’s got ‘the weight of the world on her shoulders,’ (yes, someone in the book actually says that about her.) Said weight is embodied mainly in a mother who wasn't all there but had the gall to put said girl down time and time and time again.
But later still, the same girl meets the ‘master' of the house (and yes, they call him that too!) So, It’s Regency + YA = me, who is just not that into it.
Started off really great but lost steam somewhere in the middle.
A ton of melodrama and some very teenage feelings/thoughts on love sort of killed the depth factor for me.
The end left me a little disappointed with regards to how Sadie's loser mother spent her entire motherhood leaning on her daughter for support but never had a harsh word said to her about it.
I'm all about the bad guys having lessons taught, and while she wasn't exactly a villain, she was far from the supportive mother that she should have been.
Marcus was a great guy so I'm interested in his story.
This book stayed in my to-read list for a long time I guess.
It’s been time I put it out and see what it hid.
In fact, I didn’t really want to read it.
But then I told myself “Oh, come on!
You won’t regret it!”So I instantly got the book and read it.
Even stayed up all night to finish it.And I am so happy I did!!I have two reviews waiting to be done but I am going to write this one first since I MORE than ADORED this book <3 The Cover: To be honest, I didn’t like it.
Thus, she found a new family, a shoulder to cry on, a wing to protect her and, most important of all, the love of her life.She actually wasn’t like other girls of her age that were all obsessed by music stars (Jax Stone, actually.) She never thought she could be one.
About how all girls that read this book fell in love with him.
This book is just about cliches *rolleyes*1.
Girl who doesn't believe she's beautiful: check2.
Guy who everyone think is shallow and brat, but oh no, is just a lost soul: check3.
An impossible love story: check4.
A love triangle no-so-love-triangle: check5.
A friendzoned guy: check6.
Love at first sight (literally): check7.
A girl with an I-really-don't-think-you're-that-hot attitude: checkAnd I can continue...
But I don't want to.
This is just another silly love story, about a so-poor girl who has to take charge of her family, and falls in love with a big rock star.
That's it.So predictable, so corny, so stupid...
*FULL REVIEW TO COME*I`m already giving this book 5 Stars no matter I still have to finish it because one thing I`m sure about that when I'll be done with Breathe I want to shower it with Zillions OF STARS!!!-------------------------Meet my   Sadie White    Jax Stone  “Your touch is my only addiction. Your heartbeat takes my breath away. You’ll break my heart if you don’t stay. Your whispers sing to me each night, and your laugh is my only sun.“Hold me and whisper you love me. Hold me and tell m
*FULL REVIEW TO COME*I`m already giving this book 5 Stars no matter I still have to finish it because one thing I`m sure about that when I'll be done with Breathe I want to shower it with Zillions OF STARS!!!-------------------------Meet my 
Sadie White
Jax Stone
“Your touch is my only addiction.
Your heartbeat takes my breath away.
You’ll break my heart if you don’t stay.
Your whispers sing to me each night, and your laugh is my only sun.“Hold me and whisper you love me.
Hold me and whisper you love me.
[Reto 2017, libro #4: Young Adult]Una palabra que define a esta historia es PLANA, así de sencillo, he leído a la autora antes y siempre crea en mi ese sentimiento de masoquismo, donde a pesar de ser cliché quieres seguir leyendo todas sus historias, pero ésta no despertó nada en mi, no me emocionó, no me hizo suspirar, no hizo nada.
During her time at Jax’s house, she runs into him a few times and eventually the hired help and the rock-star strike up a romance that can't be denied but can ultimately put Sadie's job at risk.
After recently diving into The Vincent Boys by Abbi Glines, I was eager to try the Sea Breeze series to see if her characters and plot development were just as engaging as my first reading experience.
It didn’t bother me enough to chuck the book, but why couldn’t Glines have made her eighteen?Other than that, Breeze was an enjoyable and quick read with likeable characters and an engaging narration.
This book was good not great, the characters were likeable enough but surprisingly it was a sub character that had my attention the most.
The relationship between the two lead characters Jaxx Stone (famous rock star and heart throb) and Sadie white (hard working 'everyday' working class beauty) happened so quickly and didn't really ring true as an epic romance.
The storyline and characters were all involved to make it interesting it just didn't wow me or make it interesting enough to grab my attention.
Just 2 stars for me this time.
This was a painful one and I found myself rolling my eyes a lot. It was just so unrealistic. So they fell in love after a whole two minutes of knowing each other and they didn't even have the excuse of eternal life, so very lonely Vampires blah blah, behind them. What 17 and 19 year old's talk like that? This is officially the first book I could not finish since joining Goodreads...Huzzah.
We know you have something for Rock Stars.
It's not that I don't like Rock because I LOVE it.
However, I don't like the author writing about the same type of people each time.Jax is this OMG perfect boyfriend.
The story was cheesy.
Okay, too cheesy but at least it was short.
I liked some parts enough to give it 3 stars, to be honest, but the rest was just not enough.
And was sure she won't love anybody else like ever.
But I would read another book(s) in the series, but not the one about him.
Rating: 2- sappy and cheesy starsI had this book for awhile now and even though I'm not a fan of Abbi Glines' books still, there's a part of me that wants to read hers anyways because her books are short and I love romance and sometimes her writing can be addicting but most of the time the plot or how the her story goes doesn't work out for me.
I hate it when girls are so naive about love, this book just turned out to be sappy and cheesy and it got a lot of eye rolls from me.
Ella trabaja para cuidar de su familia.
Pero lo peor, y más extraño de todo, es que él parece interesado en ella.
Romántico hasta el punto de que vomita arco iris.
El único punto a favor que le encuentro es que puro young-adult, no hay más que besos y caricias.
El protagonista es el Señor perfecto, todo lo que dice, hace, viste, respira y hasta caga, es increíble.
Es evidente que está hecho para que las chicas suspiremos encantadas, a mí me daba ganas de vomitar, no sé ustedes.Personajes secundarios hay, no muy desarrollados pero sí lo suficiente definidos para ser protagonistas de las siguientes historias.
6/4/2013I'm rereading this because I Love Abbi Glines books and this is the NEW VERSION with steamy scenes and Jax's POV.
Breathe was my very first Abbi Glines book and I fell in love with Sadie and Jax's story.
I LOVED the YA version of Breathe because it was a clean and lovable story, but adding the steam factor totally took this book to NA status and I am not complaining.
That makes me one HAPPY girl :)I would definitely recommend this book to any FANS of Abbi Glines's books and to anyone who LOVED the original version of Breathe.
This is what I imagine a Justin Bieber fanfic would be like if one were halfway decent enough to get published.
Every sentence spoken aloud by a character in this book sounds wooden and robotic.
I haven't met a girl with compassion before and I am intrigued." (Whoa, chill out bro.)Is it weird that after awhile I began to read everyone's lines in robot voices?
It's like a super long badly dubbed foreign language film, where the English is incredibly proper and uptight, and nobody knows how use a contraction.
Also, the characters and everything they do and say are super lame.
This was as cliche as a Cinderella and Rock Star romance can get.
3.5 stars
I'm speechless.
Ok, maybe not speechless, because I could talk 24/7 about this book.
I LOOOOOOVED it!
Abbi Glines did it again and she did it with style.
It was amazing.
It's the characters.
It's the intense feelings.
It's the story.
It's the writing style.
I loved Jax and Sadie's relationship.
And the Stone Mansion staff was wonderful.
A true support and family for Sadie.
Breathe is what I'd like to call a sweet, fun and addictive light-read.
So yeah, go read this NOW!
But I'll warn you: Jax Stone is gonna rock your world!
Oh, Jax, why don't you exist??
I didn't hate this book but I didn't really like it much either.
I thought the story idea was good and had a lot of potential.
It just never lived up to it.
I didn't fall in love with Sadie or Jax. Also I didn't find the way they talked very believable.
They both were so proper that their conversations became boring.
I really didn't feel any passion between them.I did like the secondary characters and it was touching to see how they took to Sadie and made her one of the family within the staff.
All and all I wouldn't really recommend.
Now I can see why everyone loves her books this much! ... and why did it take me this long to finally read one? haha, no clue!
This was just ok for me! A little corny and over dramatic.. I liked Sadie but didn't really care for Jax! The only highlight of this book for me was Marcus! It was surprising Abbi Glines actually wrote this because I've read most of her books and have loved them but this book was a little bit of a dud :/
