https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/909303.The_Tragedy_of_Y
The second of the Drury Lane series and arguably the more well-known title by the Ellery Queen duo (aka Barnaby Ross), this one was more enjoyable than its predecessor, albeit equally long-winded, which I’ve come to accept as the authors’ style.Just like  The Tragedy of X , the culprit came out of the left and while this artistic license seemed to be taken to give the intended shock effect, it did not work as well for me because there’s hardly any character buildup involving the reader’s attenti
The second of the Drury Lane series and arguably the more well-known title by the Ellery Queen duo (aka Barnaby Ross), this one was more enjoyable than its predecessor, albeit equally long-winded, which I’ve come to accept as the authors’ style.Just like 
And because of this distinction, and the meta-swipe at detective fiction in itself, this was, albeit not entirely satisfying, a worthy read with a much more interesting aftertaste.
The plot's as far-flung and artificial as we could hope for; the solution comes right out of left field (at least so far as this reader's concerned) yet has been foreshadowed with complete fairness, all the clues being in plain view; the quips are by and large witty (although there's a ghastly moment when a buxom woman's bosom is oh so hilariously likened to a cow's udder); and the central character, deaf retired actor Drury Lane, has become so much a template for the waiting-in-the-wings sleuth Ellery Queen that at one point you can see where Dannay/Lee forgot that he was deaf and had to insert a hasty patch to explain what alerted him to a sound from behind.York Hatter, downtrodden paterfamilias of a wealthy Manhattan brood, commits suicide by poisoning himself then jumping into the river.
thật là một vụ án không tưởng. tác giả khai thác motif "con nít quỷ" với "gia đình điên loạn" như the crooked house, cơ nhưng mà quyển này khó đọc hơn :(((
Ellery Queen, who is, of course, Barnaby Ross, is so much a better writer than was the creator of Philo Vance, but this book is definitely in Vance's territory.
And Queen, the perfect logician, doesn't manage the frisson of horror that is a feature of so many of Van Dine's books.
York Hatter is a suicide, but his wealthy and tyrannical wife Emily and their children still live in their Greenwich Village mansion.
His deaf-mute, blind stepdaughter Louisa is almost poisoned.
A second attempt on Louisa's life ends in Emily's death.

Though the story is written under the pseudonym of ''Barnaby Ross," and the detective involved is one "Drury Lane," for all intents and purposes this is an "Ellery Queen" mystery (speaking of pseudonyms!) If one can overlook Mr. Lane's somewhat bland persona, the story of the doomed Hatter family is fascinating and action-packed.
Mr. Lane is called in by the police to help investigate, and soon discovers that the Hatter family puts the "D" in "dysfunctional." The solution to the crimes is as surprising as it is malevolent and disturbing.
It a long book---300+ pages, and at times the detail is overwhelming...After reading the first book in the series I had a specific idea in my mind of how the "hero" Drury Lane should/would act...almost from the beginning of this book I wasn't liking him very much at all...he was being of no help to the detectives...he was aging and acting old.....he was gloomy and defeated, nothing like he had been presented in the first book of the series (Tragedy of X).
Only the final chapter---called "Behind the Scenes"--finally brought the story full circle and explained Drury Lane's actions, reasons, and ultimately the answers to "whodunnit?" ...and the very last page leaves you shocked and saddened by Mr. Drury Lane himself......can't wait to start the next one!!!!!!!!!
A mystery by Ellery Queen writing as Barnaby Ross featuring wealthy retired Shakespearean actor Drury Lane who consults with the New York Police Department helping them solve difficult cases using his powers of reasoning and observation.
Set in New York City around 1930.
Some bizarre things have been happening to members of the very eccentric Hatter family: the father's body is recovered in the ocean having died of poison; an attempt to poison another member of the family in the family’s Greenwich Village home; and then a murder and the only witness is a blind, deaf mute.
Easily the oldest book--other than the Bible, of course--that I've read in a while.
Quyển hay và hấp dẫn nhất trong seri cùng tên của tác giả :)
Quá bất ngờ khi biết ai là hung thủ.
Tình tiết ổn, nhưng nhân vật thanh tra bị "đì" cho thành ngu đần quá đáng.
Mad hatter lol
he Tragedy of Y is Drury Lane's second outing as recorded in print and it brings him in contact with the Hatter family--the Mad Hatters as they are known.
The family is ruled by the imperious Emily Hatter--a woman who sowed plenty of wild oats before marrying poor York Hatter.
What follows is a rash of poisonings...all attempts to get rid of Louisa...and then, finally, murder when Emily is killed with the oddest of weapons--York's mandolin.
And why are there references to York Hatter when the man was the first to die?I am enjoying these mysteries featuring Drury Lane very much.
Enjoyed this mystery featuring a rich family trapped under one roof at the mercy of a nasty matriarch and her purse strings.
As mystery readers know- nothing sets up a murder like hate and a group of people unable to make ends meet on their own.The interesting flip on this story is the motive and the killer--- one of the root causes is not mentioned specifically (won't give it away) but at the time it was not as understood as it is today so you must keep that in mind when you hear the answer.
Classic 'consulting detective' murder mystery: in 2012, #2 on the Tozai Mystery Best 100 list.
Though the story is marred by several serious issues (whodunnit seemed fairly obvious from the start, the main character's deafness is poorly handled, and there's some serious misogyny directed at the victim as folks leap to a conclusion about how something unfortunate originated), there's a plot element I enjoyed so much that I have to rate it highly.
I guess I wouldn't be surprised if the clever part of the mystery were by now a cliché, but since I don't read a lot of mysteries, it was a treat for me.
The Hatter family is nuts: vicious and bizarre. The father appears to commit suicide, then someone tries to poison the deaf, dumb, and blind oldest sister. The police are stumped and call in Drury Lane, a retired actor turned detective. And what happens next is vintage murder mystery.I love mysteries. Have since I started on the Bobbsey Twins and Nancy Drew. I thought this was a great story, and no, I really didn't have it all solved until the very end. (But I should have.) My only complaint was that Lane belabored the telling of the solution.
Kitabın son çeyreğini yarılamışken ancak muamma çözülecek gibi oluyor ve katil çok sürpriz birisi çıkıyor. Bazı gereksiz gelişme ve karakterleri göz önüne almazsak oldukça tatmin edici bir polisiye, elbette sadece "katil kim?" tarzı sevenler için :)
Astonishing story
read some time in 1996
Awful. Totally unbelievable plot. Lectures at every turn.
