https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19448.All_American_Girl
This is a good book if you're just looking for a quick read on vacation or a weekend. Not too intellectually stimulating but, like many of Meg Cabot's books, a good day dream.
Top Ten Reasons WHY You Should Read This Book:10.
9. It's a nice break from all those SUPER SERIOUS SMART BOOKS you read and, let's face it, you need a break and some good chick lit.
The narrator is awesome, awkward and a total dork.7.
Go high school girls :)6.
The girl, like every girl should, has a dog named Manet (it was originally Monet, like the artist, but the dog behaviorist said it sounded too negative...
thus, Manet)3.
Well, it needs to be mentioned again because if you were EVER a high school girl, you can totally relate.
I remember back in fifth grade I had like the biggest crush on these 2 guys who shall remain nameless and I just wouldn't shut up about it.
Don't laugh at me) because I was like "OK if Sam can finally be brave enough to face David at the art class and she ended up with him then so can i" so I literally threw a huge pack of Toblerone at 'Jack' and I was like 'Here' and he looked positively scared because we've never even talked before and 'Jack' was like 'Whoa.
I literally acted like Sam (the weird artistic girl who cares about stuff no one bothered to care about) and I even started comparing everyone I knew in real life to the characters from this book.
Samantha does not want to take art classes, she doesn't think that they would be any use to her, and when she runs it by her older sister's boyfriend, Jack (whom she's secretly in love with) he totally agrees with her.
Samantha decides to just go to the first class and then she'll ditch it, but she finds that it is actually kind of interesting, and that there is also a boy her age.
Samantha, as she sees it, thinks her life is over.Top Ten Things You Should Know Before You Read This Book:1.
Audiobook rating:4,5 starsContent rating: 4 starsShort, fast-paced and exactly what I imagined Samantha would sounds like! I really, really enjoy this audiobook. A sweet reminiscent of what my taste as a tween is like! I definitely couldn't appreciate this book as much as I appreciated it as a silly little girl, but I think it's still a reasonably good book to read for a silly, angsty tween :P
Sam thinks it's the end of her already lousy world when, as a punishment for bad grades, her parents send her to art lessons at Susan Boone's.
Sam's a good artist, but she doesn't take well to criticism, and so when on the first day Susan Boone accuses her of not drawing what she knows, Sam decides not to come back.
The president awards her the position of teen ambassador to the UN, and his cute son David (who is also in Susan Boone's art class) thinks there's something special about Sam. Only Sam knows there's nothing very heroic about what she did.
I haven't read this in years. It isn't exactly as I remember, but still entertaining. I am really glad I got through the phase of being like Sam fast when I was growing up--the lack of maturity, the know-it-all demeanor...it is grating now, whereas I had been all "YAS GRL" as a middle-schooler/high-schooler. Signs that 10+ years of maturing experiences change one's perspective.
All of a sudden, Samantha Madison becomes a national hero.By the coincidence, Samantha was attending the same art lesson as the president’s son who is very cute but geeky and he falls in love with her.
As for the sudden change of her life, she can not be herself again because her peers and people in the nation look up on her and was holding a high expectations on her which she has never experience before and she was not sure about she should be doing what she want to do while her sense tell her to do the other.
I think this book is very interesting to look to from a political perspective.
Well, like political time capsule perspective.
Ultra patriotism, right wing administration, pop culture references.That is purely a Meg Cabot thing.
But I’m not going to bore you with that.I really did like this book, even after all this time though.
There are band references that only someone who liked the same music Sam did during that time period are going to get.I’m not a huge Gwen Stefani fan, so it sort of went over my head then and now.The romance, of course, was wonderful.
Like Please Kill me, I can't take any more of this annoying.Samantha Madison sees a guy pulling out a gun and preparing to shoot the president while she skips her art class.
So she jumps him, saves the president, breaks her wrist, and meets the president's son.That pretty much sums up the entire book.
Aside from the attempted assassination, it's pretty fluffy and annoying.Throughout the entire book, Sam sits there just moping because she thinks her older sister Lucy's boyfriend, Jack, is her soulmate.
She's just being dumb!Anyways, there isn't much to talk about.I don't like Jack.Rebecca is weird.I like Lucy.Her parents are okay.David is great.Short and to the point.The end.
Lustige Story mit einer symphatischen aber doch manchmal nervenden Hauptcharakterin. (Zu fixiert auf sich selbst!) Und gewisse Top Ten Listen waren ein bisschen langweilig.
In fact, there's only one compensation - the President's son, David...But after a disastrous ride and some unusual lessons, she finally begins to see things as they really are.Already optioned by Disney, this novel has the same appeal as Meg Cabot's earlier book-turned-movie, The Princess Diaries; a winning teen girl thrust against her will into the national spotlight, broad humor, and a sarcastic take on America's youth culture.
Oh man, I was SO obsessed with this book when I first read it. I remember thinking about it for a while after, which meant a lot to me at the time. It's been years since I've read it again, but I may have to now!
Relatable, funny, and captivating. It was meant for teens, but this "PG" story was full of PG-13 garbage that's literally ruining kids' lives. IE teens really need to hear about the female reproductive system in vulgar terms. Thanks for the respect and thoughtfulness, Cabot.
Ich bin einfach keine ebook-Leserin, ich muss die Seiten fühlen und den Fortschritt physisch sehen können. :)
The relationships between Sam and her family, which contain her house maid, parents and sisters all of those really present on the novel; I specially liked the relationship between the three sisters, they are so different on the surface level but the way they tease each other and are always close together is great.Super recommend this one for all Meg Cabot's fans, you definitely don't want to miss this one out and if you're looking for a brain candy look no more, this book is pure fun and entertainment, there is no real depth to it and is perfect as a weekend/vacation read.
She saved the presidents life and she thinks that her life is so horrible!She gets a feeling that the presidents son.
Her sister is hot according to everyone and she knows every bit about relationships and everything in between.
Her younger sister is talented and she just don't think that she has everything that her other siblings have.
she doesnt think that she has talent.
I think this was a really good book because its a different point of view the you would see yourself in.
You would place yourself in that characters shoes and you would know exactly how shes feeling.
It is meant for YA readers.
But I liked it.
It had almost the same template as that of The princess diaries series.
A high-schooler with her own funny ideals, not so popular in school, has a crush on somebody, does something that propels her to be the toast of the town, another boy walks into her life, confused as to who she really is in love with, and finally a happy ending for everybody.
It is not hilarious like some of The Princess diaries but keeps you smiling from page to page.Actual rating: 3.5 stars.

*claps* Wow!!!! I don't know how this managed to be so so so freaking   offensive   and I am fucking mad right now. Also, it was so boooring. ugh. I feel like my eyeballs have exploded. ByeRTC maybe
((:: This makes me so happy.
This book made me more obsessed with burgers and drawing and making lists then anything I had ever read!! It was very cute and funny!
I just realized I never reviewed one of my favorite book in middle-grade lolLet me re-read it and write this a review :3
Very easy read. Could not put it down
Wouldn’t it be interesting to read about a teenager who saves the president’s life but really disagrees with his policies and has to figure out if it’s appropriate to use her new time in the spotlight to take a stand?
(Why I continue to read Meg Cabot books at all is an entirely different question.) I still think I would have gotten more “it is what it is” enjoyment out of this book, however, if so much of the main conflict hadn’t come from Sam being an idiot.
All- American Girl is about Sam, who is a really good artist but gets a bad grade in German and her mom sends her to art classes for her punishment.
Just before she gets picked up Sam sees the President and this guy that wants to shoot him.
I gave this book 5 stars because I really like how Samantha likes Jack- her sister's boyfriend and when she sees David she always thinks of Jack just to remind herself that she doesn't like David.
Although in the end she gives up and realizes that she doesn't like David- she loves him.
DNFBack when I was still in high school I developed a certain liking to Meg Cabot's books (I still do).
I had just finished reading Avalon High and decided to take this book from the library.
It all started after I finished reading Sam's Top Ten Reasons I wish I was Gwen Stefani list.
I found that list to be utterly bitter on Sam's part.
I was so annoyed with how bitter she was that I just couldn't do it.
It's become clear to me that after reading this book not all Meg Cabot books are for me.
This book was so good!
It was hilarious, like all of Meg Cabot's books, and there was the usual boy-meets-girl-and-they-eventually-end-up-happily-ever-after element that I seem to find essential.
I really liked the plot and the setting, too.
Like, how she saves the president's life and is suddenly an international hero or whatever.
And it was nice that she didn't let it go to her head, which is something that most authors do to their characters.
And I also really liked how she learned how to "see" what was there instead of just relying on what she "knew" was there.
Anyway, I liked it a lot.
62 points/100 (3  stars/5)If I were still the target demographic, I would probably love this. I used to, afterall. I'm quite a bit outside the target demo, now, though. I still thought it was a good but, but definitely not for me.Despite some outdated references, I found quite a lot to actually enjoy about this book, though. The family, while weird, is a really good family. Sam's sister is probably the best big sister a girl can hope for. There is a lot this book can teach young women and even y
62 points/100 (3 ¼ stars/5)If I were still the target demographic, I would probably love this.
I'm quite a bit outside the target demo, now, though.
I still thought it was a good but, but definitely not for me.Despite some outdated references, I found quite a lot to actually enjoy about this book, though.
Sam's sister is probably the best big sister a girl can hope for.
There is a lot this book can teach young women and even young men.Sam has some appalling food habits, though.
Please, if you have an aversion to food even 1/2 as bad as Sam's, seek help for it.
Sometimes it's fun to go back and read books that I read in middle school. I remember this is one that I loved because it had lots of references to Save Ferris and No Doubt, two bands I was pretty obsessed with when I was younger. :) Drugs: alcohol referenced but otherwise noSex: noViolence: Assassination attempt derailed in a hilarious way. Totally appropriate for 12+Language: I think it swore like once.
