https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311196.Frederica
So when a distant, not-wealthy relative, Frederica Merriville, shows up, introduces herself and asks him to help introduce her beautiful younger sister into London society, he's really not inclined to help.But then Frederica's young brothers show up, and 13 year old Felix quizzes the Marquis on the latest fascinating technology, like locomotives and blast-pipes and pneumatic lifts, and after that her sweet and gorgeous (if rather airheaded) younger sister Charis appears, the epitome of all that is Regency-era loveliness, and it occurs to Alverstoke that it would be quite amusing to hold that come-out ball and launch Charis into society along with his nieces.
"A man need not be dull merely because he is respectable!""No, he need not be, but he often is" I am afraid Heyer was  biased   in writting Frederica. In that she seemed to try to cram as many loveable characters as possible in this one novel!The cast here, to me, were extraordinary: Frederica, His Lordship, Jessamy and Felix. Oh Felix you adorable little genius thing you..LOLEven minor characters like Mr. Trevor or even Mrs. Jersey who was on screen no more than 5 times. they too were intrigui
In that she seemed to try to cram as many loveable characters as possible in this one novel!The cast here, to me, were extraordinary: Frederica, His Lordship, Jessamy and Felix.
Oh Felix you adorable little genius thing you..LOLEven minor characters like Mr. Trevor or even Mrs. Jersey who was on screen no more than 5 times.
I mean after this, my expectation will be unusually high whenever I pick up a Heyer book.
The banters were witty and realistic, especially between Frederica and His Lordship.
Ahhh~ Good Times.i would definitely recommend Frederica for readers who want to pick up their first Georgette Heyer book.
In spite of himself he just can't tear himself away, and goes on having a lengthy conversation with Frederica, and then, I kid you not, they are interrupted by Felix, Jessamy and Charis, and he just sits there and chats with every body and finds that he likes them all, and as soon as he sees Charis he goes "I'm going to give THE BALL, after all!!" and it's like "Ooooh yeah, shit's about to get real!!!".But before The Ball, there is this hilarious episode about Frederica bringing their dog Lufra to the Green Park, where she didn't know there were cows (because the deceitful guide-book forgot to mention it!) and Lufra starts chasing them and creates a crazy mayhem, so Frederica blurts out that the dog "belong to her cousin, the Marquis of Alverstoke!" and everyone is like :O :O no way, that can't be his dog, but they nevertheless all end up on his doorstep before noon and while they are all waiting for his lordship's convenience in the library, Heyer feels the need to stop all the action in this very climatic scene, to show us exactly how my lord Alverstoke ties his neckcloth.
It's set primarily in London, about 1817, during an era of mechanical advancement: pedestrian curricles, hot air balloons, hydraulic pumps, steam engines (all woven into the story).A jaded nobleman is beguiled by two thoroughly likable boys and their witty, warmhearted, and devoted sister.
Jessamy has a large dog, Lufra (the infamous "Baluchistan Hound" plays a fun role in several scenes).Felix Merrivile, her 12-year-old brother, is crazy about mechanics, engineering, aeronautics, steam engines, hot air balloons, explosives, etc.Harry Merriville  is enrolled at Oxford.
Age unknown, maybe 20.Charis Merriville is about 17, in London to make her debut because Frederica wants to see her comfortably married.
I was explaining it all to my family and they were all, "...yeah." And didn't understand how awesome it was that he was so full of ennui and then his fake cousins showed up who wanted to pay him back.Frederica is a book about two families.
I will pay you back when you tell me how much money it cost you.Alverstoke: It is not that terrible.Jessamy: It is the most terrible awful thing that has ever been done.
Alverstoke is trying to deny our loooooove.Frederica: Everyone knows, Charis, stfu and marry someone who can support you, not our penniless pseudo-cousin, ok?Charis: You are trying to deny our looooove.
It's a good thing, then, that Alverstoke becomes attached to them.My favorite part of the book, however, is how little self-aware Frederica is.
Alverstoke, I don't think I can be, because I don't feel at all like Charis, and she does know!
I know you're curious so here's how it went to the best of my recollection:Me: I know the Georgette Heyer book I want to read, but I can't remember the title.Melissa: You really liked Frederica and it's been a while since you read that one.Me: No, not that one.Melissa: Do you remember any of the plot?Me: It's the one with the dog.
Georgette Heyer's Frederica is an entertaining and charming read. So I give away my secret: sometimes I just need a silly and tender romance to forget about the hard realities of life. It could have been a thrilling science fiction as well. But now back to the classics...
Another highly enjoyable offering from Heyer. This is not an original story line for her- I believe in Venetia, the love interest also takes on unruly/ lovable siblings of an older sister left in charge. The real stars of this book were Luff, the unmanageable dog, and Felix, the youngest brother. The one off putting element of the romance was Vernon calling Frederica 'my child'. But maybe that's just a modern sensibility...it would be off putting to me, at least!
Synopsis, quick like: Frederica, raising her young siblings, comes to London w/the intent of giving her beautiful but semi dull sister, Charis, a season.
At the end, Alverstoke and Frederica are perfectly in love and the world is good again.
Suffice it to say, Heyer's description of things like the ballooning is amazing!
This is one of those pivotal elements in to the book where we see Alverstoke rise to the occasion becoming the sarcastic bad ass super hero.
4.5*Well here's one for the books! (For the books, I kill me!)This beloved GH classic, previously a 5* for me, is the first GH where I'm revising my rating downwards since joining GR.I'll get my reasons out of the way before I go on to the book's (many) positives.(view spoiler)[* I get that Alverstoke disliked his sister, Louisa & wasn't crazy about the parasitic Lucretia. But his method of punishing them was to be cruel to their daughters. Yes Jane is unlikeable but she is only a child &amp
(For the books, I kill me!)This beloved GH classic, previously a 5* for me, is the first GH where I'm revising my rating downwards since joining GR.I'll get my reasons out of the way before I go on to the book's (many) positives.(view spoiler)[* I get that Alverstoke disliked his sister, Louisa & wasn't crazy about the parasitic Lucretia.
This is unworthy of him.* Alverstoke's reaction to the Merriville's (or Merivale,this edition has Frederica's family name spelt both ways!) aunt leaving her charges to support her sister - whose husband is dying.
After Faro's Daughter and April Lady, I realized that my (personal) issue with Heyer's characters is that I want them to be more passionate.
They come to London with their aunt (not very important character), a twelve-year-old Felix and sixteen-year-old Jessamy, and their huge dog Lufra.Being bored out of his mind, Lord Alverstoke agrees to introduce them to the ton.
I get bored with Heyer's descriptions of clothes, but here they are balanced with the craziness the Merrivilles bring into Lord Alverstoke's life.
“Then Frederica went towards him, holding out her hand, and he raised his eyes from Felix’s eager countenance, and smiled at her, causing Mr. Moreton to suffer a shock.
Frederica is the penultimate eldest sister who has inherited the mantle of family matriarch after her parents' deaths.
This one was rife with responsibilities which I don't have issue with, but the conversations between Alverstoke and Frederica were repeated over and over again:  F: I shouldn't impose, but the situation is dire.
Talk no more.
A:You're boring me with this talk.
Anyway, this story was more about watching Alverstoke become a pillar on which Frederica leaned than a romance.
3.5 stars story from a mysterious FIVE STARS' FRIEND.<<>>==<<>>==<<>>==<<>>==<<>>==<<>>==<<>>The stockings weren't even hung...AND a GIFT!
Sneakily and mysteriously sent to me.
Her Cousin Alverstoke is baffled by her, she's nothing like the scheming females he is used to.
But this time, I have to say that it is not the Hero and Heroine that make this book so fun, it's Felix, Frederica's youngest brother.
What with his keen mind for mechanics and his wanting to try things out for himself he pulls his whole family and Cousin Alverstoke into his troubles.
And I wish Frederica had realized how Alverstoke felt for her, I think it would have been more fun if she had.
Okay, how, HOW have I not read this until now?
Not only that, as soon as I started to read it, about fifty people told me it was their favorite!
Where have they been all this time?Anyway.
Yes. This just went into my top 5 Heyer novels, along with The Grand Sophy, Venetia, The Convenient Marriage, and These Old Shades.
The thing with her novels is that you know from the first pages who will end up together, but the joy is in the characters, especially the supporting characters, and the various hijinks that occur.
And this one had hijinks galore!
A mature romance, Frederica follows the trials and tribulations of the slightly older (mid twenties, oh no, over the hill!) long suffering title character as she tries to give her beautiful (and silly, of course) sister a London season and keep the rest of her siblings under control- with the help of her "cousin", the Marquis of Alverstoke.
And I really have to say, I think I prefer her writing that way- her experiment in writing thoughts tended to make her writing a bit melodramatic, and remind me of the run of the mill romance novels I generally consider Heyer to be far and away better than.The Marquis was irritatingly perfect, and it did feel like Heyer indulged her fantasies of perfection just a little bit much with him.

This is one of my top three Heyer titles, and the audio narration by Clifford Norgate is just spot on.
His vocalization of the marquess is a bit stuffier than I would like, and occasionally he veers off into Winston Churchill territory, but he does a very nice job with all of the female voices and especially with the two cute young boys who, for my money, make this a standout book.
That, however, is just a risk the reader runs with a Heyer book.
All in all, I adored listening to this book and I highly recommend this audio version.
Fortunately, the dashing Marquis of Alverstoke is a distant cousin and agrees to help Frederica launch her sister into society.
(And if anyone complains about a spoiler alert, then they've clearly never read a romance before.) There are the usual obstacles and a near tragedy that brings our lovers closer together, but rest assured that it will all come 'round in the end.One of the things I especially like about Heyer's books is her emphasis on historical details -- she was known to do tremendous research for her novels.
I read it just after reading Northanger Abbey and the contrast between ditzy, romance-addled Catherine Moreland and Frederica could not have been sharper.
Frederica has shouldered extraordinary burdens ever since childhood--and has done it with good humor, equability and love.
Frederica pulled her family's fortunes back from the brink of disaster, got the estate producing a solid income, kept everyone out of debt, helped keep her oldest brother from going the way of their dissolute father.
Alverstoke will win a true partner if he can win Frederica's love.
In other words, the more I relate to Frederica, the more I love Alverstoke.
My poor, bewildered family would probably not mind if I took a break from this particular author...And as I started  Frederica  that is exactly what I felt like doing: taking a break.
When some distant relations show up and ask him to call, he's quite certain they are, like everyone else, after his money.24-year-old Frederica Merriville is at her wit's end.
And unlike most Heyer heroes....he didn't just instantly fall in love with the heroine and "woo" her because she didn't like him or any such nonsense.
Frederica came across as a strong and devoted sister to her young siblings that drag her along with the Marquis of Alverstoke into many scarps that end up funny or a little to close for comfort.
Alverstoke is aristocratic bored jaded man, and his change it adorable as he not only falls slowly in love with Frederica but starts to truly care for her younger brothers breaking him out out his lifetime boredom.
I just wished Frederica and Alverstoke has more time as lovers then it coming at the very end.
Still Heyer brought charm and history in this heartwarming story that was just a plain joy from start to finish.
This book is so impressive, and so far above any romances I've read for a long time, that I'm rather floored.
Heyer wrote many regency romances, and she clearly knew her stuff like no other author I've read.
In this book there's a family with young boys and two young ladies of marriageable age, a dashing Marquis, older society ladies, servants--in sum a wide variety of classes and ages, and the dialogue of every single person was utterly brilliant!
She brings the family to London in hopes of launching her stunningly beautiful 19-year-old sister, Charis, into Society.
And it’s one of those good ones where the hero and heroine spend a lot of time making eye contact in the middle of ridiculous situations and laughing themselves sick on the inside while everyone else shrieks and runs in circles.Except that part where he becomes a better man or whatever?
Yeah, that’s because he needs to.
Like a woman needs.
Frederica Merriville shows up and smashes that whole lifeplan all to hell by introducing him to her younger siblings with ridiculous names (Jessamy [16], Felix [12], and Charis [19]), their dog (Lufra), and their multitude of scrapes.
I adored Frederica and the Marquis sniping at one another to keep each other from boredom or despair or any other emotion that wasn't joy or delight at seeing one another.
My adoration for dry teasing was seconded by my love for the Marquis falling for her family almost as gracefully.
The dog, Jessamy's scrape, Frederica's constant attempts to untangle their lives: very delightful.
Frederica and her siblings travel to London with the hopes of applying to Lord Alverstoke, their father's cousin, for help to introduce her sister to the ton.
Charis, is a natural beauty and Frederica is sure she could make a much better match in London than the country.
Lord Alverstoke is not sure what to think at first - he's never met these people and although their father is his cousin, it's a distant relation.
Frederica and Lord Alverstoke were very funny, but the younger brothers, Jessamy & Felix, stole the show for me.
So perhaps it is a romance, for you, the reader that is, to fall in love with these warm and realistic characters.And if your family likes reading Gene Stratton-Porter books aloud, you'll enjoy this one too.
There is a kiss or two.*Note: I listened to the audio version of this book so this Cleanliness Report is not as thoroughly detailed as other reports are.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
6/25/17: We listened to this audiobook on a trip to Portland, which means most of it we heard as we were whizzing around the city trying to get un-lost.
It was far more entertaining than the other Heyer audiobook I've been listening to, The Unknown Ajax, which is probably due to the reader.
Highly entertaining whether in print or read aloud.6/7/08: Frederica is legendary in our house as "that book with the dog," (my husband ought to tell that story, as it's his) but I love the book for how thoroughly the Marquis of Alverstoke is drawn into the Merriville family, entirely against his will.
This is as close to ace rep as regency is going to get.
Dear Reader,This is a wonderful,witty and very compelling story centred around the Merriville family- Frederica,Jessamy,Charis,Harry,adorable Felix and their distant cousin,Lord Alverstoke. Frederica,believing herself to be beyond marriageable age,is determined that her sister marry favourably. Enlisting the help of Vernon Alverstoke,she sets in motion a chain of events that have unforeseen consequences for more than one person in their close family circle. Humorous and very cleverly written,this was a very entertaining read,one which I heartily recommend!
As soon as the usual suspects were introduced: a rich, cynical older man and a capable, straightforward young woman with a number of younger brothers, it became obvious what was going to happen.
Because my introduction to Heyer was Cotillion, a book which seems to transcend its own genre, this unexpected, heavy-handed reliance on the same tired old plot is disappointing.Frederica was also slowed down by a fairly uninteresting set of side characters and a particularly heavy focus on the more minute details of Regency life.
