https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1087048.Aaron_s_Rod
It chimed with something in his soul: the bomb, the smashed flute, the end."There goes Aaron's Rod, then", he said to Lilly."The devastating effect of the complete break-down of pre-war life is made perfectly clear: man is alone, without a muse, without symbols of hope, in a world that needs to wait for new reeds to grow before another tune can be played.In the meantime, Aaron's friend concludes, he has to live without a rod...A psychological case study of the lost generation!
Incredibly painful, yet worthwhile - playing the same sad, sad tune that Hesse picked up with Rosshalde in 1914, at the beginning of the war.
I wasn't really sure what to expect with this book. I am a D.H. Lawrence fan, but this one did not have very high reviews, so I went in skeptical. I have to say I really enjoyed it. It is typical Lawrence.. beautifully written, but not very likable characters. All in all, if a Lawrence fan, a very enjoyable read.
The best thing I can say about this novel is that it sharpened my reasons for why I do not like Lawrence.
Which brings me to my next issue.Love and hate are the same thing to Lawrence.
Yeah, that discussion wiped away any good will toward Lawrence I may have had (what little was left after LCL anyway).
Aaron has sex a few times in the book and each time, he hates the woman afterward and blames her for his lust.
As for the infinite crowds of howling savages outside there in the unspeakable, all you've got to do is mind they don't scrap you."When you love, your soul breathes in - when your soul breathes out, it's bloody revolution.A man should remain himself, not try to spread himself over humanity.
He should pivot himself on his own pride.Love was a battle in which each party strove for the mastery of the other's soul.
So far, man had yielded the mastery to woman.
And too late, for the woman would never yield.Like the Invisible Man, we are only revealed through our clothes and our masks.Give thyself, but give thyself not away.
Almost as bad as Sons and Lovers, but not quite. Again with the non-ending, indecisive and wishy-washy text. May it's just the semi-biographical works that I'm having a problem with, but I think I can make the pronouncement that I do not like Lawrence's works.In the words of evil Willow, bored now.
The story follows the tale of a flute playing mine worker from Nottinghamshire, Aaron Sisson, who sets out on a journey of discovery and exploration across post-war Europe after becoming disillusioned with his life at home.
It's fairly obvious that Sisson's character is based upon himself and many of the experiences he has in London, Milan and Florence are semi-autobiographical.
Whether he succeeds in doing so you'll have to read the book and decide for yourself but as a fan of D.H Lawrence I recommend it as a both an interesting read and a fascinating insight into the thoughts and beliefs of the author in the wake of the Great War.
Some parts of book were excellent, the writing straight from the heart, the way the author describes passion, self-loathing, etc.
Story line, however, very jumbled, and several times the same device used - a group of people meeting, debating - the pub in England, the dinner party at Bricknell's, the crowd at Sir William Franks', the gatherings with the ex-pat colony in Florence.
It seemed like I wasted time getting into their characters, and then, nothing.
Some of the gatherings and characters (Dekker, for example) had homosexual overtones, and in particular, the way Lilly washes Aaron when the latter has the flu.
Well, it's finally happened. I have found a British writer I hate. Reading this was reminiscent of reading Anna Karenina; dull plotline involving a character I find so nauseatingly self-absorbed and tedious that I want to smack him/her.Unless someone can tell me all DH Lawrence is not like this, I will never read another of his works.
I've officially given up Lawrence for good. Great writer, maybe the best all time; but for me, he's poison.
Repetitive Lawrence became very repetitious throughout this book.
It was as if his characters had some sort of social flaw.
And while we are on the subject of social views, that was Lawrence's message throughout this book.
He took on religion, love, poverty, adultery, politics...so much packed into this novel that it could be overwhelming.
A book like this could have some impact on today's society with the division of the left and right although I think this book leaned more to the left.I did not like Aaron Sisson at all.
This isn't something I would normally pick up and read, but thanks to the 1001 books list, I can now cross this one off.
Lawrence is my favourite author because I am drawn to his fearlessness and psychological acuity. He invites controversy, not for the sake of it, but rather, to question the establishment – class structures, social conventions, etc. I love that about him. He is in fine form with Aaron’s Rod. Taking place after the war, Lawrence’s Aaron is adrift. This novel is about Aaron’s journey both physically and psychologically as he tries to find his place in a new world. Lawrence gives his readers plenty to mull over.
Aaron’s rod turns out to be his flute, which he uses to break the ice in new situations.
The story is now told in a series of encounters between Aaron and a diverse series of people, both in England and in Italy.
What it really is is a way for Lawrence to explore and explain his personal views on the main topics of civilization: love, sex, power, government, etc.
There are enough dream sequences to make me wonder if the whole work wasn’t a set-up for the writer to use against the reader.
Did he really leave home and ultimately travel to Italy?
I’ll leave this decision up to the next reader.
A lesser known D.H. Lawrence novel written in 1922 about a coal miner (who doesn't live in grinding poverty) Aaron Sisson who walks away from his wife and three daughters (making sure there's money in the bank for them) and wanders Europe.
He follows him off to Europe and the rest of the novel takes place in Florence, Italy.He's a seeker---but he is not sure what it is his spirit needs.I love Lawrence's descriptive ability--so well lit and decorative.
Their lives marginally interesting-- and the real world seems to barely intrude--save at the end.Not my favorite Lawrence but worth the read.
I did not like it.
I'm not sure if it's DH Lawrence that hates women, or just the main character, Aaron Sisson.
Either way, this novel made me angry.We start with the inddiffernet Aaron Sisson leaving his wife & children in post (WWI?) war England to wander to and around London.
When Lilly leaves town to somewhere in Italy, Aaron follows, not really knowing where to go.
There, he has another affair, meets up with Lilly, and gets by performing for rich friends.
I liked "Lady Chatterly's Lover", so I will read more from him.
A bitter picaresque novel that follows Aaron Sisson, a flouter and flautist, who abruptly leaves his family on a Christmas Eve shortly after the end of the first World War. Aaron travels about England and Italy among the well-to-do, earning his way playing his flute, casting a cynical eye on the world, and always striving to be apart and alone in his heart.
The idea of pushing away from all forms of societal structure, to shun others expectations and float on fate to find your core, your center, has an appealing quality.
However, I think that ultimate end leads to an inner isolation that strips away the essence of being human.
The central character rather selfishly abandons his working class family and goes to discover his fate with the bohemian set in London.
The reader is left entirely at their own devices as to how they wish to apply these changing times to Aaron's actions.Some sections made me cringe, but this is due to my reading from a modern perspective - in the context of when the book was written the exploration of love, sexuality and the interactions between men and women were quite sharp.I'm not a Lawrence fan and am unlikely to revisit this book or any of his other work.
This makes me weary.
I am beginning to think that Hemingway's A Moveable Feast is rightabout Lawrence.
- the short fiction is fantastic while the novels are absurd.
Lawrence has given our society much, without question, but novels like this are the result of ideas triumphing over poetry and it's a pattern with too much of his full length fiction.
The dialogue is trash - we can talk about the style of the time, sure, but laying heavy handed adverbs on every third line of dialogue suggests a shocking tone-deafness for such a presumably major author.
Thank God some swaths of poetry come through - Lawrence's descriptive powers are often enormous and frequently evocative.
My first D H Lawrence and I'm sure I didn't pick a good one to start with.
I should have picked a more familiar tale.
This one was interesting to read, the story of a mining community worker who walks out on his wife and children without a backward glance and goes off to pursue a life as a wandering flute player.
He seems to slip into the circles of classes higher than him so easily and is accepted right away, they tempt him away to Italy.
This may sound negative, but quite the opposite, I did enjoy reading it, but also have to confess that I've been glad to finish it.
DH Lawrence was both a very good writer and a very bad one and this book encapsulates both of these aspects. I first read Aaron's Rod as an impressionable youth and only wanted to re-read it to see what Lawrence wrote about Italy and in particular, Florence. Lawrence had a tendency to rant and in this work he gives free reign to it. And there are moments when his genius shines through, but these are, sadly, all too rare.
Not a bad book, but a bit full of angst for my liking. I can imagine when it was written that it must have been scandalous. I did enjoy the debates regarding love, marriage, freedom and religion. It is somewhat frustrating and hard to imagine these days how uptight and restrictive England used to be back in the early 1900's. I felt this book was a bit rambling at times.
Not my favorite DH Lawrence, but if you're scorning society and exploring your individual needs with others as props, this may be your guide.
This book was on a list of "classics" - I assume because it is by D. H. Lawrence. I had to give up on it because I just couldn't get into the story and didn't care at all for any of the characters. At least I can cross this off the list.
Aaron's rod or rods are definitely relatable to most people.
Ein gefährliches Buch, das verführen will und etwas weckt, was immer schon da war und nie geschlafen hat.
Aaron's Rod is a great example of how a white man can get into the Canon just for being a white man and having thoughts about things.
The general idea is that our "hero", Aaron, is having some sort of mid-life crisis because World War I has changed everything around him.
So he leaves his wife and daughters to make his way in the world as a solitary, traveling musician.
Throw in a dash of rape culture and a hint at pedophilia, and you've got a roaring good time!Once the book really got into Men's Rights Activism territory, it was a real struggle to get through the rest.
His lengthy descriptions of characters' thoughts and feelings are enlightening.
My biggest problem with this book is Lawrence's view of women.
He obviously feels deeply threatened by women and possibly because of that he never presents us with a dynamic or interesting female character.
All of his female characters are deeply flawed socially and morally.
He really seems to believe that there are good men and bad men and lazy men and strong men, etc., but that all women are exactly alike and fit into his one dimensional view of them.
I won't be reading any further into D.H. Lawrence's extensive collection of works.
Another hidden gem of literature, the story of many characters who undergo the experience of becoming lost emotionally, intellectually, existentially.
A shaman born in civilization, DHL points out the healthy elements of such a disorientation and thereby makes his novel a work of healing.
So he should be forgiven very consciously by the reader for his occasional preachiness, seeming misogyny, and instances of muddy reasoning.
Under the mesmerizing force of everything and everyone he turns his attention to, scenery, furniture, characters, ideas and ideologies, he is often consciously tentative in giving name to what he senses.
I like to imagine him as a shaman delivering a campfire story.
The novel seems an interesting mix of modernism and existentialism, trying to work out various ideals of the "modern post-war world" of 1922. The final chapter "Works" seems to be Lilly serving as Lawrence's mouthpiece as he explains his theory of human existence to Aaron. Lilly argues that existence is either love-oriented or power-oriented, and that most of human history as been driven by a "love-goal," but that we must accept that the "power-goal" philosophy is much more effective in creating a lasting society. It was a fairly interesting read...but not narratively compelling.
"The anarchist, the criminal, the murderer, he is only the extreme lover acting on the recoil. But it is love: only in recoil. It flies back, the love urge, and becomes a horror"Aaron's Rod carries your packages for journey's beautiful, terrifying choice as self pushes deep for singularity slipping maybe to other amorous caverns instead to forsake being. Let each bring and give, allowing your be to be. Many sublime drops are given, pick from what souls primal ending knows.
This was a waste of time for me. I thought it might be a good read, but either I'm really dense or D.H. Lawrence is in another sphere. Probably the latter. The story revolves around a man who deserts his family in order to find himself. He has different experiences as he travels around. He goes home once and the confrontation with is wife is not positive, so he just leaves again. Don't waste your time.
