https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/739202.Experience_and_Education
In Dewey's view, traditional education consisted of: imposition from above;external discipline;acquisition of isolated skills and techniques by drill;preparation for a more or less remote future;static aims and materials (pp.
In Dewey's view, schools were all wrong: they were prisons where students were forced to learn things that were impossible to learn because they were unconnected with their "experience." The people who ran these schools simply marched blindly in lockstep with a "received tradition" (read: traditional body of academic knowledge) which they neither understood nor felt any need to question.
But it is a mistake to suppose that the mere acquisition of a certain amount of arithmetic, geography, history, etc., which is taught and studied because it may be useful at some time in the future, has this effect, and it is a mistake to suppose that acquisition of skills in reading and figuring will automatically constitute preparation for their right and effective use under conditions very unlike those in which they were acquired.” ― John Dewey, Experience and Education“Collateral learning in the way of formation of enduring attitudes, of likes and dislikes, may be and often is much more important than the spelling lesson or lesson in geography or history that is learned.
Dewey uses this chapter to look in detail at the idea of negative and positive experience.
In the same way education needs a level of social control but not to the point where it impedes on the ability of students to have a relevant experience and to mature.
In many ways this chapter is designed to look at the questions students ask such as 'why do we need to learn this?' And in many other ways it is designed to look at the purpose of teachers, teaching and experience in regards to teaching.
I think Dewey is right on many fronts, including the idea that a thoroughly planned and skillfully executed experimentally based education is more effective than a traditional face-front classroom model.That said, I must observe a few things.
Certainly traditional methods may be less effective, but they do work on some level.Also, Dewey decries a traditional classroom that places primary value on the past (cultural heritage) and says instead we must move the children into the future.
After all, he must be a product of such an education and he seems quite able to formulate new ideas.In fact the traditional classroom is not dead.
Considered to be one of the classic must read books for any educator, it discusses traditional and progressive education in a very non-confrontational and honest way. If you ever read any writings for Dewey, make this one your first read. It's a bit tough to read at times, and I found myself re-reading sections of the material to get a better understanding as sometimes I lost my way or just didn't get it. Worth the read and worth the time spent to understand where Dewey is coming from.
This is more of a treatise than book, but I think all these years later and it's still accurate. I wish our education system could be set up more like what Dewey and his chicago school envisioned. Learn by doing instead of by instruction.
So it was no surprise that I wasn't excited to pick up Dewey, but I needed to do because I have a proposal to write.
I know Dewey.
At least I think I know Dewey.
Dewey's lays out his argument clearly and made it easy for me to pull his ideas into my theoretical framework, which is a good thing.
As I read, took notes, and talked back to the text, the compelling thought I had was that our policymakers need to read Dewey and spend some time in our classrooms, and then they may decide that we're veering off-track when it comes to education in this country.
This concise, incredibly dense volume on Dewey's philosophy of education is as relevant today as it was when it was published in 1938.
Dewey argues that students need rich experiences to learn, and encourages a cooperative learning environment that teaches studenst not only content, but also the skills to function as citizens in a democratic society.
Remarkably, Dewey's theory experiential education, which he developed through observation, has been since proven to be completely aligned with the way that the brain actually learns (see The Art of Changing the Brain, an excellent book on the biology of learning).
Smart and sensible. Maybe even timeless (we'll see in a century or so). Good reminder for learners and teachers that their respective roles are, ideally, complementary and overlapping; that public education is essentially a social process serving social purposes; and that new knowledge is useful only if it speaks meaningfully to past experience and lays groundwork for a richer series of future experiences.Pithiness is both this book's strength and its weakness -- strength because it imparts its claims swiftly and effectively; weakness because it's over before you can stop to scratch your head.
The shift from teacher-centred instruction to student-based learning, the increasing emphasis on subject materials with practical, real-world applications (Good-bye Latin and Greek), the absence of arbitrary rules and corporal punishment, students being freer in their speech, movements and, more importantly, in their thoughts.
In this book, Dewey seeks to clarify his ideas, like on what he really meant by educative experience and miseducative experience, what form of authority is needed in classroom, what form of freedom is suitable for the students, and, most importantly, the aim of education itself.
Dewy, a champion of progressive education, tries to find a synthesis for the best education possible, which he says begins with and must always include experience.
Dewy concludes that science and the scientific method are central to all formal education.
There is much in the background to this book that is not explained, so I do not feel I understand all the issues since I come in to a late stage of the conversation.
There is no star rating above because there is too much about the background of this book that I do not understand to rate it fairly.
At less than a hundred pages, this is more of a pamphlet than a book.
Apparently, many people find it difficult to read and assimilate, but I didn't have that issue.
I didn't find it overly difficult, but I did find it intriguing.
It does make one think about the way schools are structured and what would be the best ways to educate people effectively.
If you're interested in contemplating such things, then this would be a good book for you to pick up.
If you're not, then you won't like this book at all.
(7/10) Dewey is kind of the grandfather of the radical education movement, and being someone who never met a freeschool he didn't like I thought it would be worth checking him out.
As it happens, this book seems like almost a conscious attempt to move away from that radicalism and towards a kind of centrism, attacking both traditional education and radical pedagogy.
But too much of it is a kind of aggravating Goldilocks politics.
Probably worth reading for its historical value, but don't expect a radical screed in support of democratic education.
With theory, it's all about definitions.
Even in less than a 100 pages, Dewey finds a way to muddle some of his together which damages the clarity of his theories.
And there are two egregious typos on the summary on the back of the book...
where was the editor!!??That being said, this is an excellent argument for experiential education that is bold and unflinching, and a wonderful distillation of many of Dewey's ideas.
And covering as much ground as he does in less than a 100 pages is also a reminder to us all that brevity is the soul of wit and wisdom.
Experience and Education is an essay on the philosophy of education. Given first at a series of lectures in 1938, it is part of an ongoing dialog about how we should proceed with our educational system. Then, as now, people were dismayed about the state of their schools. In this work, Dewey does not provide a concrete answer, but instead situates the debate in a larger philosophical context. This book is a good jumping off point for further discussion-- by itself, it makes so startling insights.
This book is a great, short one to get you thinking about your own philosophy of education. While Dewey is a Progressivist, he advocates a middle ground between the "new" education and the "old." The best summary I can give is that Dewey's philosophy is one of common sense that places importance upon the needs of the child, but doesn't eschew the wisdom of the teacher, either. The style is a bit philosophical, heady, so at times I found myself re-reading paragraphs to make sure I had gotten the gist.
What most surprised me was how a book written in 1938 could have so much relevance to education today. I was assigned to read a couple of chapters for professional development and found myself getting sucked in to the whole book. Speaking in broad strokes about two opposite education styles, Dewey falls closer in line with progressive education, though warns against unbridled freedom in the classroom. With dense and challenging text, don't confuse it with beach reading, but anyone working in the field of education should be familiar with this classic work.
A short book to clarify his beliefs after time and criticism had its word. I felt much was said counts even now for the problems we are facing in education. My favorite part was in the last few pages where he spoke that what we are striving for is something worthy of being called education, and not education with a prefix such as "traditional" or "progressive." I recommend this to all those interested in education from teachers to parents. It is a hard read though I feel I should warn you.
This short book is about the reasoning to a philosophy of experience to education. It is easy to read, but I feel like it could have delved deeper with more examples of actual education. I found myself thinking how even though this was copy-written in 1938 with the first edition being in 1963, we still have many of the same questions, opinions, and frustrations brought up about education. It has me thinking about how to extend the philosophy of experience to education.
Philosophical books sometimes send my brain in a tailspin of redundancy and over analysis. I enjoyed that Dewey discusses the added value of capitalizing on student's personal/life experiences as a foundation for their own educational journeys. I wish that the book would have added more insight towards incorporating a democratic classroom approach to unearthing these lessons but then, it may be my educator desire emphasizing practical over theoretical.
This book was no doubt revolutionary and insightful when published in 1938. However, as a middle school teacher in Finland in 2016, I didn't feel the classic had much to give, as so many of John Dewey's ideas have already been in use for a long time. Of course I have to appreciate his work, which has had influence in educational theory and practice.
Progressive educational theory is being compared to traditional theory of the old, old days in this educational classic for everyone inspired/ motivated to create a better school (wouldn't that be nice).
A must read for any level of educator.
I thought it was awful and boring, but I was forced to read it, so you don't have to accept my opinion.
A good overview of his philosophy, but I liked How to Think better.
John Dewey writes masterfully in his own time and doesn't stand on the side the traditional or progressive educational schools of thought that were in conflict at the time.
Instead, John Dewey importantly notes that both schools of thought offer those that receive education from educators who embrace either perspective are offered experience and it is an important role for all educators to think more critically of what experience is and what it means for education.
Much of his commentary on this subject is actually not aimed at the traditional school at all but is a direct critique of the progressive forms of education that were popping up at the time of his writing.
I read a few reviews that hated this book and I got through the first chapter (which is dense, and written in a self-indulgent "scholarly" style that is hard to take 50 plus years later) and thought I was going to disagree.
I thought Dewey did an excellent job of describing what traditional education is - "stand and deliver" in the common shorthand now - and the limitations of what was then passing for progressive education.
I work in education administration and can't say this book helped me very much, beyond what I learned and thoughts provoked by the beginning chapter.
He does this by highlighting how experience is the fundament of education, and one only learns and is educated when one’s experience improves both one’s current knowledge, and one’s future ability to learn and use that knowledge, and ideally, for the benefit of the people.Dewey walks this line between liberal idealist and someone who really does believe that democracy is the best way to access each person’s individual will and apply that will to the collective for the better, because the causal power of the action resultant from a democratic choice is better.
But it’s not all ends and means; we can’t chunk experience like that.
Traditional methods based on forcing the cumulative knowledge we've inherited from the past on the minds of students through memorization by recitation are still an integral part of the educational process in most of the world.
We still believe that the experience of the individual in the past, present and their interaction with the educational process is of no importance when put against the refined knowledge produced from mankind's entire history.
In this book, John Dewey, argues for a way out of this situation without raising a full fledged revolution against those traditional methods, and that is through an individualized experience-based philosophy.
But he quickly pivots to suggest applicability in the classroom, despite acknowledging that they stay non-coercive in the schoolyard only due to the opportunity to walk away.He then compares the classroom to a family—“I do not mean that there are no occasions on which the authority of, say, the parent does not have to intervene and take direct control”—is it fair to say that Dewey could mistake cooperation at gunpoint for a democracy?Most damningly though, he follows a discussion of the teacher acting as a (unelected) “representative” of the students with a discussion of dealing with “recalcitrant” children—which contains no notion of respecting their autonomy, or their beliefs about the educative process they’re submerged in, only a statement that the educator cannot allow the “unruly or non-participating pupils to stand permanently in the way of the educative activities of others.” In the next chapter, “The Nature of Freedom,” Dewey again largely argues against freedom for students.
