https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3445.If_I_Die_in_a_Combat_Zone_Box_Me_Up_and_Ship_Me_Home
Volevo sbattergli sotto gli occhi l’orrore di un conflitto che, anche se inizia per i motivi più puri, poi prosegue senza scopo.In che modo la guerra del Vietnam è diversa da quelle che l’hanno preceduta, si differenzia e stacca da quella in Corea, dalla Seconda Mondiale eccetera, ed è invece molto più simile alle guerre che l’hanno seguita?Nelle guerre che hanno preceduto il Vietnam, il nemico era soggetto conosciuto e riconoscibile, vuoi perché portava una divisa, vuoi perché erano chiari gli schieramenti in campo - in quelle guerre il conflitto aveva una destinazione, e terminava quando una forza espugnava il territorio altrui, arrivando a Berlino, o a Tokyo.I soldati in Vietnam, invece, si chiedevano a chi stavano sparando.
In The Things They Carried, O'Brien utilizes a nonlinear and fragmented narrative structure, magical realism, and the power of storytelling to capture the visceral truth that telling the real story can't quite capture.
Written 15 years before Things, If I Die is a memoir of Tim O'Brien's experience in the Vietnam War. There is no metafiction razzle-dazzle, but rather a straight-forward, linear narrative that begins when O'Brien is drafted and ends as he boards the Freedom Bird headed toward home.
At one point, O'Brien ruminates on Ernest Hemingway's fascination with war: "Some say Ernest Hemingway was obsessed by the need to show bravery in battle.
We need good writers who have served to comeback and give us a peek at the ugly cost we don't feel, to expose us to the loss that we can never really understand, to give us a moment's exposure to the weight we left for others.Anyway, O'Brien (one of the best known writers seasoned by the Vietnam war) wrote a solid war memoir.
I allow that I may think the book is safe only because the road of Vietnam war memoirs was built with a helluva lot of O'Brien's own bricks and blood.___________________
An awesome piece of writing. Harrowing, thought provoking, raises many questions about humanity. Why wasn't this book on the school syllabus when I was growing up?
Regarding courage, I suggest skipping chapter 16 where he says, “Whatever it is, soldiering in a war is something that makes a fellow think about courage, makes a man wonder what it is and if he has it.” And “I thought about courage off and on for the rest of my tour in Vietnam.” There is plenty to think about in his descriptive writing.After the requisite experiences of friends being wasted or losing arms and legs, O’Brien tells about how most soldiers in the Vietnam war zones, including him, worked hard to be transferred to the rear to a desk job.(1) He succeeded and spent the last months of his 365 days in Vietnam processing casualty reports and writing a book.Although he was not in Vietnam until a year after My Lai (2), the publicity and investigations were in full bloom during his time in the rear.
Outstanding attempt to portray the experience of an infantry soldier draftee in the Vietnam War. Although it is a memoir, it is so carefully crafted in its sequencing of vignettes and selection of archetypical examples, it comes across as a fictional narrative.
It feels honest about the numbness and ambivalence of most soldiers fighting an unwinnable war, one in which the enemy was rarely seen and blended in so well with the civilian population.
O'Brien shows great talent in alternating between examining his own personal feelings and modes of survival with coverage of the actions of others.
There is no sense of aggrandizing O'Brien's role as a soldier.
Tim O'Brien is always haunting. Though I didn't love this quite as much as "The Things They Carried" (the ultimate Vietnam book IMO), or my all time love "In the Lake of the Woods" (words can't express the adoration I have for that chaotic beautiful mess), If I Die in a Combat Zone is disturbing and painful and written with the clarity and disdain the subject matter deserved.
Using the audiobook version makes it good getting the emotional voice of a Vietnam solider/veteran. After surviving Vietnam, it was nice to see Tim graduate from one of Boston's best... Harvard University. The Things They Carried  By Tim O'Brian work is even a more popular Vietnam work.
Some veterans I know don't like O'Brien's books because they say they are not true.
You learned, as old men tell it in front of the courthouse, that war is not all bad; it may not make a man of you, but it teaches you that manhood is not something to scoff; some stories of valor are true; dead bodies are heavy, and it's better not to touch them; fear is paralysis, but it is better to be afraid than to move out to die, all limbs functioning and heart thumping and charging and having your chest torn open for all the work; you have to pick the times not to be afraid, but when you are afraid you must hide it to save respect and reputation.
Some good sketches of combat in Vietnam, but the author spends way too much time trying to convince you he's above it all -- the poetry references, the anti-war posturing, the easy sneers at boot camp and military discipline. The NEW YORKER loved this book, and the inside cover blurb describes the author as "intelligent and thoroughly nice." 'Nuff said?
If you have the time, I highly recommend reading this book alongside the marvellous and gripping Ken Burns documentary about Vietnam in which the author plays a prominent role.
In the documentary we get snippets of the fear, the absurdity, and at times the adrenaline rush of what being a combat soldier in Vietnam felt like.
As the author himself so eloquently writes:“I would wish this book could take the form of a plea for everlasting peace, a plea from one who knows, from one who’s been there and come back, an old soldier looking back at a dying war.”
I would have finished this book a week ago, but I've been down with the flu.
I completed the book in the throes of a relentless fever, that still persists as I write this, but that fever might have added the unknown ingredient a reader needs to embrace O'Brien's work: a sort of light-headed vulnerability.
This book works well in tandem with O'Brien's brilliant THE THINGS THEY CARRIED.
This book seeks fact and comprehension, but TTTC—written in excerpts during the eighties, and published in 1990—strives for truth and meaning.
3.5
Would a liar share this?The rest of the men talked about their girls, about R & R and where they would go and how much they would drink and where the girls performed the best tricks.
When they said to watch for the ones with razor blades in their vaginas--communist agents--I believed, imagining the skill and commitment of those women.Or how about when he looks at the people in the town he grew up in and dismisses them all as unthoughtful "wage earners?" He looks down upon his fellow soldiers during boot camp but begins to reconsider both them and himself when he reaches the front.When he wonders whether vets can speak to any great truths, he decides not.
Compared to The Things They Carried, which is a compilation of war stories from Vietnam, and one of my favorite books, If I Die in a Combat Zone: Box Me Up and Ship Me Home is a much more personal account.
The accuracy and honesty of the memoir, and O'Brien's dependable writing style made me fall in love once again.I finished this in less than a day, due to both my interest and its short length.
However, I finished wishing that it had been longer, so I could take more time to digest O'Brien's story.
Add this to his charming yet straight forward writing style and I was hooked.
As a young man he was definatey a bookworm prior to his drafting, he spends a lot fo his time in training away from other grunts and the Hung Ho testosterone fuelled block houses and lurks in solitude in the library.I guess I'm marking at 3 stars and not 4 for the, in my opinion excessive amount of literacy quotes and the the meaning of other authors passages, he refers to Hemingway, Plato and a host of others, as he tries to make sense of his own feelings.Finally will I re-read this in the future?
I'm not much of a memoir-reader generally, but I thought that it would be appropriate reading in honor of Veterans Day (well, sort of).
In some ways it was your typical Vietnam-dysfunctional story that we have all heard before.
I think the thing that was most interesting though was the personalization of the dysfunctional war story, and the thinking of a reluctant soldier involved in that war.
Its about a soldier going through a war that in many ways seems to be several different repetitive patterns that never really accomplished anything - other than O'Brien surviving and being honest about how he did it.
Nothing new to add to old review. Was rereading for a class.If I Die in a Combat Zone is good, but this memoir proves the point O'Brien makes in The Things They Carried: story truth is more true than happening truth.
a military memoir of Tim O'Brien's tour of duty in the Vietnam War.....a year as a foot soldier in Vietnam
War wasn’t even over.
Seems he really needed to get this off his chest.
On the adequately dubbed Mad Mark’s chest, you’d find the necklace of dead Vietcong ears, literally.
Read it for more painfully detailed descriptions of gore.
Less detailed, thankfully.
No but it’s really not about that.
It’s about courage, or wise endurance, wrestling with desertion.
It’s about the military sense of humor (which includes fake ambushes on April fool’s day) and landmines (do you know the difference in between a Toe-popper and a Bouncing Betty?
Yet, how the war is missed once stateside.

Very poignant and poetic. Not a dull narration of events from the Vietnam war.
Though an interesting read, I did not find it as enjoyable or insightful as 'The Things They Carried'.
In the memoir If I Died in a Combat Zone: Box Me up and Ship Me Home, Tim O’Brien talked with his friends as he explains, “I was persuaded then, and I remain persuaded now, that the war was wrong.
Like every other soldier in his Alpha Company, O’Brien just works hard so he can get a job as a rear echelon officer.
In the book, If I Die in a Combat Zone: Box Me up and Ship Me Home, Tim O’Brien writes about the personal experiences of what occurs at war, and the harsh realities of death and fighting.
Short, powerful, honest, and conveyed with an economy of language to make his own favorite writers proud, O’Brien nails the memoir format, illuminates the experience of war, and captures multiple aspects of the quagmire that was Vietnam.
In many ways it reads like The Things They Carried, divided up into 19 pretty short chapters of 10 pages or less, each focusing on one scene, one part of his life, one idea that permeates the war experience.
Precise, devastating, vivid. The skill of the writing matches the significance of the topic.
I left most of those chapters without a single clue as to what he was saying.His writing style IS very different than other authors, and I appreciate that and know that going into the novel, but I understood "The Things They Carried" very well, and this seemed jumbled without much structure or explanation and depth.That being said, there were some parts that were written beautifully and some chapters that really struck a chord in me.
I finished only so I could say I read the whole things, and because I was desperately hoping SOMETHING large would happen and redeem the book.
The point of his works seems to be catharsis or record of the feelings and experiences associated with the war for people to consider before engaging in conflicts - which is something that has been taken too lightly over the last decade and a half.O'Brien weaves his conflicted thoughts on the ethics of the war, possibility and responsibility associated with dodging the draft or fighting in a war he doesn't believe in, pressures of duty and obligations to please others, fear, boredom, bravery, and death.
But, I came away from this feeling like I had just listened to a bunch of random war stories about Vietnam and going to Vietnam, which I know was the point of the book.
I guess it made it feel a bit cliched - at this point, we've heard all this before, but it was probably more shocking or new at the time it was written.
I also think he took the whole idea of storytelling much further with "The Things They Carried." Those were also many random vignettes, but they added up to the common theme of the exploration of what the word "truth" means.
For me, this book didn't add up to much.

