https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33458.The_Lust_Lizard_of_Melancholy_Cove
“The Lust Lizard of Melancholy Cove” by Christopher Moore takes place in Pine Cove a small Pacific coast town of 5000.
As the antidepressants wear off, a hilariously uncontrollable erotic revolution takes place in the formerly groggy and uninspired population.
Fifty years ago down on the Delta, Catfish first met the Sea Beast, the hundred foot creature, Steve, that loved his steel guitar sound and has now risen from the depths.This is laugh out loud funny and a bit zany at times.
Has my curmudgeonly mask become my face?I'd say an instant yes and move on, light of heart and wreathed in smiles, were it not for this:I think there was always some scrawny dreamer sitting at the edge of the firelight, who had the ability to imagine dangers, to look into the future in his imagination and see possibilities, and therefore survived to pass his genes on to the next generation.Yep.So up from the Mount of Despairing Good-Enough books!
Christopher Moore has a twisted sense of humor, his narrative style is Kurt Vonnegut meets the Adams family with a dose of John Steinbeck and a Faulkner chaser. Very funny. This one is set in his Pine Cove creation and concerns a Puff the magic dragon with a decidedly lascivious nature.
When high school English teachers define fiction as "the willing suspension of disbelief", they should distribute copies of Christopher Moore's books to their students to illustrate the concept.
No matter how many time I shake my head or utter the words "he's warped" when I read Moore's books, I inevitably race through them, enjoying every word and chapter as though it were a big bowl of ice cream: deliciously satisfying and fun, fun, fun.
Moore is twisted and weird, and you really have to wonder what sort of childhood he had, but I hope he keeps cranking out the books because I have devoured every one of them.
I've heard many good things about Christopher Moore, but mostly I've heard that I'd love his sense of humor.
I'm sure we'd laugh ourselves stupid.The Characters: A pothead constable, an aging b-movie actress, a psychiatrist, a biologist, a blues man, a painter, a pharmacist with a sexual preference for sea life and a barkeep that's more metal and silicone than human, make up the cast of The Lust Lizard of Melancholy Cove.
One of the other warnings I was given before reading this book was that The Lust Lizard of Melancholy Cove was his most lackluster work to date, so if I enjoyed this book, I'd love his other stuff.
Christopher Moore writes for people who like to stretch the suspension of disbelief to extremes, who find salty humor delightful and who think that weird stuff is just a part of life.
This book is a great little adventure filled with uncontrollable giggles and oddball characters and I loved it!If you like zany and twisted humor and haven't read anything by Christopher Moore yet, this is a great place to start.
Hamilton, take note.'Steve' stirs up the animal spirits of the low-seritonin residents of Pine Cove (aka Cambria) -- of which there are many, as the town's sole psychiatrist has cut off their Prozac, surreptitiosly substituting sugar-pill placebos, with the connivance of the town's sole pharmacist, who satisfies his carnal urges with an inflatable dolphin in his bathtub....[Dr. Val] came out of her office to find her new receptionist, Chloe, furiously masturbating, "her steno chair squeaking like a tortured squirrel.""Sorry," Chloe said, a bit later...

So Theophilus Crowe, the town constable, must find out what's wrong and what to do about it.Enter all our other old friends from other novels of Moore's -- Molly Michon, the aging but still-beautiful and deadly Warrior Babe of the Outland (well, she was, until a stupid accident that wasn't her fault left her with a scar that got her canned by the movie studio); Mavis, proprietor of The Head of the Slug (originally named "The Head of the Wolf," but the local Greens decided the name was cruel to animals and forced her to change it); Dr. Val, the aforementioned psychiatrist; H.
The Lust Lizard of Melancholy Cove is a warm-hearted probe into the meaning of inter-species fornication; Fornication with giant lizards, sea mammals, gas trucks, and a ex-soft porn movie actress in Xena costumes with broad swords.
In other words, just another day in Christopher Moore's brain.
The author has his brain working over-time in this silly little romp.
Maybe a little too silly even for Moore.
Moore revives some of his Pine Cove residents including H.
Add Molly Michon, a has-been starlet and Steve, a perpetually horny sea lizard and you get the idea this is not exactly Cannery Row. But if you can't handle kinky situations and over-the-top slapstick comedy, why are you even considering a Christopher Moore novel?

This book wasn't my cup of tea. It started out as 1 star. Then it went up to 3, but then dropped again to 1, so I will settle on 2. This book was definitely creative. So hooray for that. But even with the creativity points, it was the "everything else" that wasn't pulling me in. I wanted to like this more, but I was just trying to get to the end.
I just finished reading this, and as I explained to my fiancee last night when I couldn't stop reading it: it does not hold up the qualities that are necessary for me to classify a book a good book; however it is great escapism.
He is not your typical escapism writer like James Patterson or John Grisham who turn out one load of crap after another, but never stop taking themselves seriously.
I like that his books are fun to read and I typically laugh out loud a few times during the read.
2.5You have to be high to read this.
Or drunk.
Yes, both would be best.
Otherwise, the sheer amount of exaggerations would make you crazy.
With its title alone, you have to assume you'd have to suspend your disbelief completely.
I don't mind that at all.
It is supposed to be a silly book after all.
But you don't get any respite from all the exaggerations.
It's just goes on an on, one crazy situation or a person after another.
After a while one gets tired of it.I wonder if I am too serious to appreciate the type of humour in this book.
If you like Carl Hiaasen you should give Christopher Moore a try, while Hiaasen writes quirky mysteries set in Florida, Moore writes quirky fantasy/urban fantasy set in California. There similarities for me are the characters, these guys come up with the oddest set of characters.I liked this book, but prefer the Fool, Love Story and Grim Reaper series.(view spoiler)[ I felt dumb not realizing sooner that the bestiality loving druggist would picture into the final solution (hide spoiler)]
Where to start?This book was my maiden dip into Christopher Moore, who should get a Pulitzer for his titles alone!
Who can pass up a title like this?
Or of Skinner the dog's perspective of life "Danger, Food Guy!
Danger." Anyhow, I guess you can gather that I liked it...liked it enough to send it on to some very special folks Down Under, in the hopes that it can get released at the Aussie 2005 Convention.
I'm not sure how this book ended up in my bookshelves, but there it was.
The story takes place in a small town on the coast, where a 5,000 year old sea monster has been awakened.
He has a taste for warm blooded animals, so he proceeds into town to snack on the townfolk.
The unlikely hero of the story is the pothead town constable Theo Crowe.
Theo and his friends decide to help the sea monster return to the sea, so he doesn't get hunted down and killed.
Fortunately for everyone involved, the sea monster has only eaten badguys, so it's easy to root for him.

You like it or you don't - and I do ! Quirky twisted nonsense humor. Ideally for those moments you really do not want to question what you're reading but just want to enjoy it. Before you start this book, check if you have a sense of humor - if not, move on.
This was one of his best I have read so far. I could not stop laughing. Very hysterical story line.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
There is a enormous sea creature masquerading as a trailer who happens to make people very horny (yes you read that sentence right).
The absurd and hilarious doesn't present itself much before 70 to 80 pages in, but to his credit, he is developing characters during that time.
Each character gets ample time to develop, and each forms their own tapestry very well.There is nothing amazing or outstanding about the plot.
It's all in the presentation that makes this a hilarious ride.This books goes places you would never expect with characters that you would never imagine.
Its a great read, one you should take.
Las estrellas son gratis, y eso me hace sentir mejor en este caso :)Esta novela me ha recordado mucho a 'El ángel más tonto del mundo'.
O al menos me ha recordado a lo que recuerdo de 'El ángel más tonto del mundo'.
Algo es algo, que uno ya no tiene la cabeza en tan buen estado como hace 10 años largos.
Pero es que eso es más que suficiente en este caso.
Estos son algunos de los ingredientes de 'El monstruo que amaba a las gasolineras'.Si queréis pasar un buen rato, dadle una oportunidad a esta novela.
I usually enjoy the first half of his books more than the second half; I suppose it’s because I like his characters more than his ridiculous plots.This story returns to Pine Cove, where the inhabitants are going a little nuts, because in a fit of misplaced guilt, the local psychiatrist has taken all of her patients off their antidepressant medications.
Also a giant sea monster has come ashore and is psychically transmitting lust to the locals.
Hilarity ensues.This is occasionally too sexually crude for my taste, and I also didn’t like the scattering of brutal murders mixed in with such a silly comedic story.
Un po' Drive in e Hap & Leonard, un po' Non è un paese per vecchi, abbastanza sconclusionato, con diversi passaggi decisamente esilaranti. In realtà un attacco feroce alla mania tutta americana di uniformare la varietà dei comportamenti umani mediante l'uso della psichiatria e degli psicofarmaci.
I tried listening to this book as I fell asleep. Big mistake. I fell out of bed laughing at least three times.
Possibly the most low-brow novel I've ever finished, this book will take several points off your IQ. But what can I say, it's a guilty pleasure to read about stoners and sex-crazed dragons.
and these are the tamest of events taking place in The Lust Lizard of Melancholy Cove by Christopher Moore.If you haven't read the first book and would like to start with this one, feel free to do so at your discretion.
While Moore does reuse characters from his previous books as well as reference a few things, on the whole you don't need to have read the earlier novels to understand this one.
Monsters,weird monster sex,human sacrifices,drugs,interspecies relationships,several unreliable narrators,everything you could want in a book.I find I have to read Moore very carefully,because he slides in hilarious comments at the strangest moments.
This was definitely one of the better titles I've read for book club. The humor is completely bizarre, wacky, and surreal--which is Moore's hallmark.
