https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133240.For_the_Roses
5–This Book Owns My Heart–Stars I can't even begin to express how much I love this story. I'm a HUGE Julie Garwood fan and I pretty much love any historical romance she writes, but this book stole my heart like few of her other stories have. This heartwarming book is a little different than Garwood's usual fast-paced, fun-loving, and whimsical romances. It's longer, is more drawn out, and doesn't just center on the love story. For the Roses is a tale about family, friendship, and love. It featur
I'm a HUGE Julie Garwood fan and I pretty much love any historical romance she writes, but this book stole my heart like few of her other stories have.
This heartwarming book is a little different than Garwood's usual fast-paced, fun-loving, and whimsical romances.
This book and its characters will alway hold a special place in my heart.
I can't think of a better gift an author can give to her readers than to create a story that will forever live in their imagination.
As much as I love this story, it isn't one I would recommend for a first time Julie Garwood reader.
I loved it.
What a tale, what a saga!
Spanning a number of years and two continents it was fantastic.
It had humour, passion, tears, laughter, sex!
Mary Rose was a great character and her interactions with her brothers was wonderful.
How they all loved each other dearly.
If you read the premise, you know what the story is going to be about but if I say too much, I might give something away.
“If you begin to give away parts of yourself, eventually you'll give it all.
"For whom the bell tolls," he added in a whisper.
"It tolls for thee."
From the cover: The Clayborne brothers were a rough gang of street urchins -- until they found an abandoned baby girl in a New York City alley, named her Mary Rose, and headed to Blue Belle, Montana, to raise her to be a lady.
It’s adorable to read her tattlings and pleadings that Mama Rose see things her way and set her brothers straight.There are so many things to love about this book.
❤ ❤ ❤ ❤ ❤I absolutely loved, loved and loved it.It’s a story where we can find every perspective of life in every shape with the different form of love. I say it’s a Chronicles of life.Julie Garwood, I absolutely admire you. I feel all of the emotion while I was reading. Only a great and wonderful Author like you can gift such a beautiful story to us. A story, A tale, A saga… For the Roses….
3.5 very slow moving stars.
Omg this book had so very much going on.
I really loved a whole lot of it but sometimes you just want things to move on.
I was very invested in this couple though.
My goodness Julie Garwood can write a hero who absolutely knows what he wants and doesn't waver.
I adored Harrison and the heroine Mary Rose was so good hearted.
The whole family was so layered and each character was vibrant and adorable.
I only felt the story moved too slow.
I still am a self confessed Julie Garwood addict for sure.
Mary Rose was such a well written- sweet, kind hearted and loving character.Found as an abandoned baby and raised by 4 orphans into one of the sweetest woman ever, everything goes well until Harrison, the lawyer, sweeped in their life and stole Mary's heart.I loved everything about it- I loved the humor, the bond between family, the letter to the mother, the passion between the main couple, and the angst too.
I love how her men never want to fall in love, but one look at the heroine, HISTORICAL BOOM!TBH, there hasnt been a JG I havent loved so far.
*grumbles wanting rose at pillows too*
Of all flowers, Methinks a rose is best.This was a wonderful story with enchantingly solid characters. Looking forward to the next installment.
Normally, I love Julie Garwood. Maybe I've changed because this book kind of annoyed me. It was way too long - could have and should have been edited back at least 100 pages. Her writing style is very simple - maybe too simple. I liked all of the characters and the premise was good. But something was missing from this compared to some of her other books.   and   are still my favorites!
Blood may be thick, but blood isn't purer than a true family and that's what the Claybornes are - a true family.Ms. Garwood had made a family out of 4 boys (Adam; A slave, Douglas, Cole and Travis), 1 baby girl (Mary Rose) and a slave woman( Adam's mother- Mama Rose).Adam had to run away from the South, because of what happened to his master.
When he first sees her in Blue Belle, he couldn't help but think that he was seeing her dead mother - Lady Agatha.Mary Rose and Harrison meet and she introduce her to two of her brothers she rode to town with.
A very sweet and almost old fashioned story! It reminded me of Polliyanna meets Oliver Twist meets cowboys! :)
This is one of my most favorite Historicals.
The Prologue of four street boys finding a baby girl amongst the rats and rubbish in their New York back alley and their decision to become a family to save the baby is one of the best I've ever read.Then the kids' letters to their Mama Rose giving glimpses of their journey with the baby from New York to the Wild West and all their trials and tribulations as they settled in Blue Belle, Montana, are both funny and touching.The romance between Harrison, the highlander/lawyer who eventually succeeded in his quest to find the long-lost heroine Lady Victoria/Mary Rose has its ups and downs and to my mind, is almost secondary.I think narrator Melissa Hughes did a brilliant job with the kids' voices, especially when reading their letters and of course, the Prologue.
I read this years ago and it has always remained a favorite in my memory.
FAMILY is what matters.The mystery of just WHY little Mary Rose was tossed out like so much trash comes to light through the endeavors of Lord Harrison Stanford MacDonald, an attorney who works for the little girl's father.
There are MORE books ready to be read, so that we can see Mary Rose's brothers find their own HEA...maybe I really don't need to sleep for the next week, I need to read!Yes, this one is going on my BEST BOOKS EVER list...thanks Sandi!
I've put off reading this one for quite a while, but I ended up reading it all in one sitting last night: this book didn't have what I usually enjoy in HR(the big villain) but it was very well written, and I loved Mary Rose and her brothers' relationship..
Harrison was great, and the interaction between himself and the Clayborne family was very enjoyable and fun..
I don't want to say more, but I do wish that she wouldn't have made it so easy :-) All in all, I did love this book..
What a wonderful story!I'll write my review later:)
I adored everything about this book. Such a lovely tale. Such wonderful characters. A must read for sure!
For some time, Mary Rose thinks he is a mild-mannered man, not familiar with guns or fights.
I liked the four brothers and Mary Rose, too.The best parts of the book are the first chapters (the boys find a baby) and the last chapters (leaving England, the trial).
I was a bit disappointed in how clueless Harrison was, when Mary Rose was in England.
Such a waste of time, all the scenes with Eleanor.
The narrator, Mikael Naramore, is fine, except he makes Travis sound like a schoolboy, when he's about 27.

Tiene muchos spoilers, es más una reflexión sobre lo leído, si no has leído el libro y la sinopsis no aporta información suficiente, puede que te arruine la trama si es que querías sorprenderte¡Amo a los hermanos Clayborne!
Me mataba escucharla relatar las desventuras de Harrison >>u<<Agradezco el detalle de las cartas, de todos los chicos: leerlos y saber qué fue de ellos en todos esos años.
Porque todo al final sucede muy rápido, casi una tercera parte del libro Harrison se la pasa de acá para allá, con poco tiempo para nada, y siempre está atareado.
One of my faves. The prologue begins the story before the American Civil War. Then fast forward to chapter one and it is years later after the war. The heroine, Mary Rose, has arrived back to Blue Belle and her loving family after being away at school in St Louis. Mary Rose was found in a basket in an alley as a infant and raised by 4 "brothers". Filled with humor and a few heart wrenching moments I highly recommend this one.
4.5 stars, I loved it. This was written a long time ago but one of the best things about a great story is that it never goes out of style.Mary Rose and her brothers were terrific characters and Harrison was just as engaging himself, as well as hilarious while Mary Rose was trying to "save" him. This was a wonderful family, and the book was filled with rowdy, bickering, loving family loyalty, sacrifice and undying support. I'm genuinely looking forward to more from this series! <3
Despite its flaws--and there are many--I enjoyed this story of an unconventional family in the Wild West. I enjoyed it enough to check out the sequels from the library and am now looking forward to reading a trilogy of novellas about three of the brothers.
http://sinlibrosnosoynada.blogspot.co...
When the truth is finally uncovered, Mary Rose reluctantly goes to England to meet her father, fully intending to return to her beloved brothers, who may not be related to her by blood, but are her family in every way that matters.Her father and her new family are determined to make her forget her previous life, however, and keep her there, molded into the perfect young lady she would have been had she never been kidnapped.
I love Julie Garwood books and this book did not disappoint me.
The weekend I read it I wanted to read a quick book but I only had this book.
The story starts off with four street boys finding a baby girl in a dumpster in New York City just before the Civil War. The boys decide to keep her and want to raise her to be a proper woman.
Most of the book takes place after the boys and Mary Rose have grown into adulthood but they reflect on growing up throughout the book through multiple letters they send to their Momma Rose.
DNF at 35%Honestly, this kind of writing was something an amateur like me produced in 9th grade. The characters were wooden and one-dimensional. Don't get me started on the romance.
Ma otsisin head ajaloolist armastusromaani ning Julie Garwoodi soovitati mitmes nimekirjas.
Ma ei tahtnud midagi liiga siivast, seega hoiatan ette, et seda see raamat kohe kindlasti pole.
Tõlge on muidugi 1990ndate lõpust ja üsna naljakas ning kummaline.Romaan ise üllatas mind positiivselt.
Vast polnud ootused liiga kõrged, nii et kirjutamisstiili vaimukus oli tore üllatus.
Raamat polnud kohe kindlasti mitte täiuslik, aga üleüldiselt oli huumorit piisavalt ning ka tegelased olid kõik sümpaatsed, hoolimata vigadest.Lõpplahendus oli väga täiuslik nagu ikka, aga just seda ma sellest raamatust tahtsingi.Tõlge oli sorav ja ladus.
Natuke andis tunda, et tegemist on vanemate tõlkega, aga midagi väga häirivat polnud.
OH GOD I FINISHED. SOMEONE BUT A STAKE THROUGH IT SO IT NEVER RISES AGAIN. I so wish I was better at DNFing books. Somehow, this historical western romance turned into the lamest To Kill a Mockingbird impersonation. UGH.
The storyline itself was different and I liked it.And while there is the element of romance in this story, what drew me into it was the theme of family -- family loyalty and family love.
I also liked how Garwood used the tool of letter writing to cover gaps in time and move the story along.
But I finally warmed up to her character.I highly recommend this book, especially if you are looking for a story that revolves around family, has romance, history, humor, drama and suspense.
Garwood is one of my favorite authors and books like this is the reason for such admiration.
This was a VERY long book that kept me turning the pages like there was no tomorrow....The story was focused on Harrison and Mary Rose the H/H of the book, but there was a lot to be said of Mary Rose's brothers who I'm sure are in the books that follow.Mary Rose lives in a unique household in a small town called Blue Belle, Montana.
Harrison, is very disturbed once he realizes the love he has for Mary Rose because now he must find a way to tell her that she has a entire family in England who would want nothing more to meet her and embrace her into their family and he must make sure she doesn't resent him for coming to Blue Belle with ulterior motives.
