https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/961949.Nate_the_Great
I bought this book for my 8 year old niece; I am not as enamored with this one as I am with the Ivy + Bean books, but it was still a cute book and I think she will love it. And it IS a mystery [gotta start them young LOL] so there is a bonus in that. It was a fun, quick read and I think she will enjoy reading it.
Nate the Great is about a boy detective who takes his cases and mysteries really serious even though they are funny and goofy.I think Nate the Great is really funny and very easy for kids to enjoy because it's silly and the art is funny. Older kids will laugh, too.I really like that Nate is always serious when funny things happen.My favorite quote:"It was a good breakfast. Pancake, juice, pancakes, milk, and pancakes. I like pancakes."I plan to read the rest of the series but I doubt it will be as funny as the first.(Dictated by Dad)
Wolfie loved this one. Should I make his own Goodreads account now that he's reading? But then I have to log in and out... Meh.
Hard boiled early reader. 😍
This was a favorite of mine growing up!
Mysteries are such a great way to get kids hooked into reading.
They're propelled to keep going until the mystery has been solved.
Highly recommend this beginner's book!Reading Level: 2nd and 3rd gradesCleanliness: a boy says "I would like Annie if I liked girls."**Like my reviews?
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Cool book!
Ellie really likes the audio of this book. The audio is actually of several Nate the Great stories.
Great teaching opportunities in this book and the series. I love a mystery. Great way to start children on solving life's mysteries!
I loved this book! Ha ha! Humorous and smart.Re-read in 2018. Many lol moments for me. The humor is so dry; I love it!
He takes his cases as seriously and doesn't let anything get in his way (except for maybe a break to eat pancakes).
In this story, he takes on the case of a missing painting for his friend, Annie.
Annie takes Nate to visit all three and Nate looks for clues.
It can students thinking as they try to solve the case right along with Nate.
You can also have the students study the pictures to look for clues instead of just listening to the words.
Mysteries have always been my favorite and this is an excellent book to introduce students to the genre.
First sentence: My name is Nate the Great.
Let me tell you about my last case: I had just eaten breakfast.
The telephone rang.Premise/plot: Nate the Great is on the case.
Annie, the girl down the street, has hired him to find a lost picture.
The picture is in yellow and it is of her dog, Fang.
Can Nate find clues and piece together what happened to the picture?
My thoughts: I loved it!
I loved most his narrative voice.
I, Nate the Great, was sure of one thing.
Annie liked yellow.I also loved the way the clues are revealed.
Very cute! We will be reading more of these!
I want to read it now
Favorite part: Nate the Great found Super Hex by stepping on its tail.
I loved Nate the Great as a kid, and I had nearly forgotten how wonderful these books are.
They are a perfect introduction (along with the Encyclopedia Brown series) to the mystery genre for little kids.
I can't recall how many of them there were in this series by Marjorie Sharmat, but I know there are many.
Nate was a quiet, serious little kid who helped his friends solve mysteries.
He wore a trenchcoat and a Sherlock Holmes hat and he always preferred working alone.
Great series, and one that I look forward to sharing with my little girl when she's old enough.
My children have always raved about Nate the Great so I decided to grab one of their summer reading books to take a look at what they are talking about.Nate the Great is a private detective who takes on a new case.
His friend Annie's picture has gone missing and it is up to Nate to sleuth out what happened to it.
This is a beginning readers book and as such it is very simply written for young children.
It is a wonderful introduction to the detective mystery.
It is enough to keep a child's attention and introduce words for this age group.
OK this has got to be my favorite yet on this research project. It's an book that's easy to read WITH A STRONG VOICE. Wow. Who knew you could tell a story with so few words, with only EASY words, and still make you laugh out loud. I heard Harry's voice so distinctly that I will most certainly go hunt around for anything and everything else by this author that I can find. I'm just that impressed. Well done and very highly recommended.
The writing is lame. But given that, the story itself is actually pretty good. It captures a kid actually being a detective pretty darn well - making breaking down the problem, planning, observing. Probably would work okay as a kid's early read-to-self book. And the art was certainly good enough. But the writing style itself took too much away.
Read this book with my second and third grade students. They really enjoyed following Nate as he solves the mystery of the missing picture. It was definitely a fun read for us!
Read all by myself
Fun chapter book. My kids enjoyed it and I had fun reading it to them.
Her brother had painted over hers!One way this could be used in the classroom would be to have students read this either independently or in some book club kind of setting, and then as a fun extension activity, the teacher could set up some kind of mystery for the students to solve that would involve them looking for clues around the classroom, potentially solving problems to get to the next clue, and ultimately being able to solve the mystery.
Students so often come up with add-ons or alternate endings to stories, and I think it would be a fun activity for students to write their own mysteries.
Nate the Great is a children's book written about a young detective on the quest to find her friend Annie's lost picture.
In the story itself, Nate the Great, is a very professional detective.
When I was a child I can fondly remember playing different games such as detective that really allowed my imagination run wild, and I believe that this book captures that perfectly.
When you are a child playing detective, you are very focused on your job, and do take it very seriously.
I also loved how the illustrations worked around the text.
This book would be an appropriate read aloud for kindergarteners and first graders and would be a great way to introduce students to mystery and adventure stories.
One activity that could be implemented as a result of this read-aloud could be for students to draw and/or write their own theory of where they think the missing painting could be.
Another activity that students could participate in would be to have them draw and/or write the story from either Annie, Harry, or Fang's perspective.
This would be a great way for students to use their creative thinking skills and to hear the story from different perspectives as well.
(The dog's name, Sludge, also opens a lot of doors for vocabulary talk.) I also think that this book is a real transitionary book in a lot of senses: it could introduce younger readers to longer-format (or even non-picture-book formatted) books, and could help struggling older readers "catch up" without fear of embarrassment from a traditional picture book.
I do think that the dryness of the humor might catch some readers off guard at first, and there's some cursive throughout that will definitely trip up those unfamiliar, but otherwise, it's a real classic.
Nate the Great is realistic fiction for children between the ages of 6 to 8 years old.
I thought the story was "meh".
I thought the writing was "meh".
The book for me was "meh" but my daughter was the true judge.
The first time when I read it to her she fell asleep.
The second time I let her read it to me and she said "this is a silly story and not silly funny either".
Maybe in 1972 (when the book was published) the children were simpler and these stories were the bees knees; and maybe not.
This is a great book for readers that are just starting to read lengthier books.
It is not too long, and the complexity of the words can be read towards kindergarten-1st grade at minimum.
The book is a bout a young detective (Nate), and his friend that has lost a picture.
Nate is very good at these kind of predicaments, and decides he needs to go help his friend find her lost picture.
The book goes on with cool adventures of Nate and how he is such a good Detective!
I recommend this book for children ages kindergarten-1st grade.
My Review: Oddly enough I don't recall reading Nate the Great books when I was a kid, though they have been around for a while.
This is a great step up from the level readers, it still has plenty of illustrations and many easy to read words and repetition for young readers just gaining confidence.
This was a fun story for us to read together, and the activities at the end were a great way to bring the story into our day to day life.
Munchkin has put in a request for more Nate the Great books!
The transitional series Nate the Great is perfect for teaching problem solving and observation skills in the classroom and in life.
The style in which the sentences are written are perfect for a detective's voice that's curious and cunning as word play plays an important part in characterization here.
Characterization of Nate makes this book really "great" for students because it easily captures their attention right away and provides instant likability for the main character.
There are many lessons about problem solving, team work, resourcefulness, observation, etc.
that could come from using this book in the classroom.
Nate the Great (Nate the Great #1) / by Marjorie Weinman Sharmat; illustrated by Marc Simont -- New York : Coward-McCann, c1972. (60 pages)SUMMARY: Nate the Great, a junior detective, has found lots of missing things but now has his greatest challenge: the mysterious disappearance of a painting of Fang, the dog, by Annie, the girl down the street.REVIEW: A beginner reader featuring a junior detective that should appeal to both girls and boys. The last half was better than the first half and the pictures were so so.
