https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/173187.The_Nazi_Doctors
Fascinating. Not for the faint of heart. Martin Amis used this as background for his novel Time's Arrow.
From its beginnings, with the sterilizations of the unfit, the "euthanasia" of mentally defective or handicapped children, followed by adults, to its apotheosis in Auschwitz with the medical experiments of Josef Mengele and others, and the attempt to eradicate the "diseased" Jews from Germany and its conquered territories to cure the ills of the Nordic race through therapeutic mass killing, doctors were central to Nazi ideology and practice.This is a work of both history and psychology.
One of the achievements he was proud of was reducing the death rate among Auschwitz prisoners; Wirths felt he was doing God's work in preserving Jews in this way.(*) For most Nazi doctors there was a bizarre distancing between their roles and the facts of extermination.
Even though it was published in the 1980s, this book was a very interesting glimpse into the psyches of the Nazi doctors who worked in the death camps.
Another little acknowledged fact is that many doctors that worked in the camps were prisoners, who lead a somewhat double life - they were forced to aid the Nazis in their medical experiments as well as medicalized killing, but many tried to help their patients as well.
One of the things I liked best about this read was the fact that Lifton constantly invoked the Hippocratic oath, and asked his interviewees to discuss their relationships with this sacred responsibility to heal, both inside the Third Reich, and afterward the war.
One is from the preface; Lifton, having interviewed both Nazi and prisoner doctors, was asked by one of the prisoner doctors "Were they monsters?" "No" he replied, "They were human beings." The prisoner doctor opined that it would've been simpler if they were monsters--but the book makes plain that it's not so simple.Another critical point deals with a prisoner doctor who is sent to escort a child through the camp.
"There is only one president, and there was only one child."Lifton is a past master in describing human behavior in extreme circumstances.
How does it happen, he asks, that people can become so destructive, so evil?While treating of early Nazi extermination practices (f.i., of the disabled and infirm), most of this book concerns itself with Auschwitz, that enormous complex of camps and industrial concerns run by the S.S. for the purposes of production, profit and industrialized mass murder.
These medical professionals include not only the regular German physicians but also their assistants, many of them themselves imprisoned M.D.s, many of them Jews, some of them the former mentors of their captors.Much of Lifton's work in preparing this study was in interviewing these doctors, often quite extensively.

One of the things that Lifton's persistent emphasis on empathy reveals is in fact the contradictions in the selves of the Nazi doctors, the fact that they did struggle with their killing mission.Now, they resolved those struggles in ways that allowed them to keep killing--and that in fact may be the central question of this book.
[...] the potential for doubling is part of being human, and the process is likely to take place in extremity, in relation to death.But that "opposing self" can become dangerously unrestrained, as it did in the Nazi doctors.
This book is so hard to read...not from the writing, but the events and the people who perpetrated them.
I am on the chapter on Mengele and it is one of the most extraordinary things I have ever read.
No author could answer the question, "Why?" Why did seemingly normal people do such atrocious things?
The chapter on Mengele explains how he was able to compartmentalize his mind and do seemingly contradictory things.
He had to have had a sadistic streak already, but, as the author says, he was “the right person at the right time and at the right place.” He saw himself as “healing” the German race and beyond that, healing mankind through genetic selection.
I wanted to like this book, but I found it surprisingly dry and uninteresting. It's a topic that fascinates me, so I'm really surprised that I had to force myself to read this, and eventually just gave up.
Fascinating. Not for the faint of heart. Martin Amis used this book as background for his novel Time's Arrow.
Ending my 2017 with this book seems negative, but i just want to remind myself how weak our kindness could be altered due to different circumstances.
It was a very heavy book to read, also quite thick with many chapters of case studies.I think the prefaces say the points about human rationalized their behaviors even though it's apparently wrong.
I read this book many years ago, at the outset of my interest in German history and fascism, and it served as a good place to explore some complex issues, following upon some rather more sensationalist works on the Third Reich.
As Lifton quotes one of the camp survivors saying in the introduction, “it is demonic that they were not demonic,” but rather human beings committing acts of evil that live as a potential in each of us.
A terrifying description of what humans are capable of doing to one another. Lifton does a wonderful job of dispelling the Nazi Doctor's mythical reputation while dutifully and accurately recording the horrors they committed. Exhaustingly researched and full of eye-witness interviews from both "patients" and "doctors"; this book should be on the shelf of every primary school and university library in the world.
For anyone who wants to understand a little bit about how a society can become so comfortable with 1.2 million abortions in the US every year (over 42 million worldwide every year), this is a must-read. Many of the steps used by the Nazis to channel the medical profession into killing millions can be seen in what the pro-aborts have done. I'll plan to write more about this on my blog (http://speaking4life.com), please check it out.
There's one thing that any author can learn from Lifton, and that's being as honest as possible with your readers.Even though a Jew and even though he has some really personal feelings (which get in the way at some places) he paints a really good picture of everything and gives the reader the possibility to think for himself and to understand the issues.Also, through the book you can't stop asking yourself "What would I do in this situation?"
I've always been fascinated in what makes people become monsters, and this books details the chilling metamorphoses of several with all of their delusional reasons and lingering mysteries. This is a very, very difficult read--the horrors leap off the pages and gave at least me nightmares. But I still think this is a very important book and a valuable read.
Fascinating, in-depth look at how those who were charged with healing and saving lives as physicians were psychologically able to commit the horrendous crimes that they did during WWII. A must read for everyone on how "normal" people, healers even, could make the psychological adjustments necessary to allow themselves to be part of a genocidal machine; and those who could not.
An excellent and chilling account of the process known as the healing-killing paradox in which doctors under the Nazi regime utilized their skills for death rather than life. I used this as a major component for my senior research seminar, and may challenge the author's concept of psychological doubling in future works, most likely my Master's Thesis.
If this book doesn't alter the way you view our society today I don't know if anything will. This is far more than a chilling history.
Couldn't finish this book, I'm afraid. It is very formal and academic; factual and linear. It's like reading an encyclopaedia or Wiki entry.The information within the book is, of course, interesting and accurate but presented in such a dry manner that I just couldn't absorb it and found myself re-reading sentences over and over, just to make the info stick.I appreciate this is my failing and I feel bad criticising such a well received and well researched book. I prefer personal stories and accounts told, preferably, in first person so shall stick to those in future.
This huge study, taken on by Lifton, must have been very painful in its execution. If you hated Nazis and Aryans before you read this, you will become enraged at their presumptuous impression that THEIR race was the only one that should survive in this world. Ugh. Anyone could be a target for murder: elderly, people with mental illness, homosexuals, Romanians, ...and Jews.However, when you see Animals as sentient beings, instead of flesh on a plate, you are not as shocked by cruelty to humans as flesh-eaters are.
Very hard to read both because of the density of some of the writing but more so because of the disturbing nature of the material. I could only read 50-75 pages then had to go read another book (or three) and come back.
Contains interesting information I had not previously encountered, but I found the book overly long. I forced myself to continue reading past about 1/2 the book, and finally quit about 3/4 the way into it.
I'm not sure if I ever thought I would complete this book. It's a really important read, especially for those working as psychiatrists (or any doctor really).Took me nearly two years to finish this book; it is harrowing and I took many breaks while reading this.
Enrst B aka Hans Muench
A dark read, but as far as what he could have said, it's manageable enough, given what's been left out.
I still had nighmares, but I appreciated his moderation and discretion.The history and interview based part rated an easy five stars.
The situation entire was more a case of mass hysteria, closer to the Crusades or Salem witch trials than to the mysteries of the Aztecs, with the less hysteria prone giving in to nervous breakdowns and being quietly removed from the system.It's definitely worth a read for anyone interested in either the history or the psychology.
Chilling. An important book.
THE book to read on this subject tbh
This book is like a fist in the stomach. The real tremendous question here is "me or others" or "these others or those others". How prisoners doctors or nazists doctors have considered the Hippocratic Oath? This very clever book does not dwell on horrorific details, but it puts you "if I were there" and, in base to your moral or religious principles, try to figure out yourself. Shocking.
I notice similarities in the present time towards those considered undesirables.
In SS Germany, they began to use "medical" as the method to lock away the intellectual, the vocal investigative "types" feeling threatened by their presence which restricted their public agenda.
Peace protests were noticed, and the prominent members removed by force by night.
Or by the medical community who labeled; and began sterilizing forcibly.
Epi-cyte gene sterilizes secretly; unknown at the present time in our corn products thanks to Dupont/Monsanto epi-cyte gene.
Pride fuels, stimulates certain areas of common human nature, which in an fallen imperfect state leads onto genocide.
The psychology of genocide.
