https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139986.The_Snow_Queen
This is higher end political space opera that borrows a number of themes and central plot components from Frank Herbert’s  Dune, while creatively retelling the Han’s Christian Anderson story for which it’s named.
Group 1 is comprised of the Winters who rule during the 150 years of Hegemony access to Tiamat.
Moon, a member of the primitive Summer tribe, pursues her life long ambition to become a “sibyl,” a sacred position among her people similar to an oracle (the true nature of the “sibyl” is one of the mysterious of the story I don't want to spoil but I thought Vinge did a great job with the concept).
insipid characterization ended up trumping the amazing world and universe being built.
review to come I guess.(view spoiler)[no, I'm not going to do it!
I'm just going to copy and paste the comments I made in the group that inspired this read:my feelings about this book really turned around somewhere in the middle.
but when you have a female villain who comes across as excessively petty and immature (even though she's over a century in age!), and a lead character whose sole motivation is her bizarre love for her pathetic cousin (who also happens to be the most uninteresting character)...
I don't know how successful that exploration is.loved the universe, so intriguing.
Certainly with this book she has created some emotionally complex and believable characters who she puts through the wringer and they come out better people for it (unlike in real life when I tend to shake my fist at the sky, post-wringer sessions).The hardest villains to write are the ones who are morally complex and commit heinous acts on the basis of some warped principles, like altruism gone wrong.
Here it is portrayed as a vastly complicated human condition that create, destroy, corrupt and redeem with equal facility.My only complaint is that the male characters are not as well developed as the ladies, especially the two "starbucks" characters who are despicable and deserve their eventual decaffeination (sorry).
Granted, a lot of the material couldn't possibly have been inspired by The Trilogy, but it is almost funny the way the book predicts events in Empire and Jedi.Anyway, broad similarities with other genre entries don't mean this isn't a great book; in fact, it's a damn interesting take on the material, Star Wars from a feminist point-of-view.
The hero, Moon Dawntreader (seriously?) is female, for one thing, and an inhabitant of a matriarchal world where one woman, Arienrhod (the semi-villainous Snow Queen of the title), has been in power for more than 100 years and has concocted a scheme to ensure she keeps it.
In Vinge’s version, Sparks gets left behind when Moon is chosen away to become a sibyl and he flounces off to the city of the Snow Queen to try his luck at becoming someone of importance.
Gerda and Moon are each launched on a quest, to find their beloved friend/cousin and to save him from the Snow Queen to rejoin his people and his world.
I also couldn’t help seeing many parallels between Vinge’s Snow Queen and Frank Herbert’s Dune.
I also find it interesting that so many science fiction and fantasy writers deal with the issue of human life extension/immortality, since I certainly don’t aspire to live a particularly long time.
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award.
You can dress it up pretty, but the game remains the same.I read it during the build-up to my wedding, amid a run of early/mid 80s Locus Sci-Fi winners – 
; my wife got me to read that, insisting it was worthwhile and every other chapter I was rolling my eyes and glaring at her sceptically.
Wind instruments have always seemed mortally dangerous to me…There were spaceships, aliens, love, murder and mayhem – it's in my genre and it gets two stars without complaint.I’m glad I’ve read 
The Good:This is science fiction painted with fairy tale themes. The setting is very cool and full of good ideas, the details well conveyed through the various point-of-view characters.The Bad:The story is slow and the characters are all slightly wooden. The ending gets a bit Days of Our Lives.'Friends' character the protagonist is most like:Moon is very New Age but also heroic. She is also the spitting image of another character in the story, which makes her most like Phoebe.
I am positive the teen me focused on the sex(there is really not that much) and the love story between Moon and Sparks.
The adult me has some major issues with the love story between Moon and Sparks.
Even the inner teen agreed with me.
But this is not a book that is exclusively about characters names Moon and Sparks, hence it's title.
Thankfully their parts in the book played larger roles in the grand scheme of things.
One thing the inner teen and I agree is that the Snow Queen was not EVIL.
The inner teen and I were very disappointed.
I loved it! Full review here (romanian version) : http://lavinia-calina.blogspot.ro/201...
The fascinating thing about it is that the world itself seemed very much like a fantasy world but this is most definitely a sci-fi story.
But it was this blend of sci-fi and fantasy that made the story a bit of genius.
All she has to do is make sure that Moon, the only surviving and sane clone, is the next Summer Queen.This is brilliantly imagined and utterly human.
It's definitely sci-fi but I just have to respect this beautiful planet and people that Vinge has created.As far as the audio goes, the narrator did a truly excellent job.
Premiile Hugo și Locus, un cadru natural extrem de interesant, câteva idei la fel de interesante, o planetă fascinantă, câteva personaje interesante, ingredientele unui roman de succes, nu-i așa? Dar totuși ceva nu s-a legat pentru mine, parcă am tot așteptat să se întâmple ceva ieșit din comun, să mă atașez de un personaj, să mă prindă povestea, dar degeaba, declicul nu s-a produs și a trebuit să mă târăsc cale de aproape 700 de pagini ca s-o termin. Mai multe, pe blogul FanSF: http://wp.me/pz4D9-2l6.
I love this book.
I found Moon and Sparks to be so very young.
I thought the most interesting and well developed character was Jerusha Pala Thion, and I found her story more interesting to me than Moon’s, a woman’s struggle against corruption and misogyny.
Only a really young person could think that their love would be eternal.Often when I return as an older person to a book I loved in my youth I find it falls flat.
The things I once loved I no longer do.
In this book I found other things to love and I was very satisfied.
And it's about an anthropocentric value system buckling under the weight of the universe's unfathomable diversity.Like its fairy-tale inspiration, the story begins with a girl and a boy, Moon and Sparks, who seem inseparable.
There, he meets a woman who, though 150 years old, has a youthful face and a striking resemblance to Moon; her name is Arienrhod, and she is the Winter Queen.
It's a delight to watch Vinge unpack the nested tales of Andersen's Snow Queen and re-sculpt them into something new and epic, but unmistakably sharing the heart of the original.
I found the writing to be good and the characters were interesting and many of the concepts such as the "sibyls" and the Black Gate, and the construct of the Hegemony and the political intrigue to be fascinating and yet for me the sum of the parts were far larger than the book as a whole.
(view spoiler)[It's funny, this book was written in the late 70s and early 80s.
But not many vs the wealth of "good" women in the book.
Of course the fatal mistake in this book was the old "yes she's independent, strong and powerful but without true love she's nothing." Luckily all the good women ended up with their man.
I am so glad I requested it via interlibrary loan.
Glad to get that out of my system.
The world-building, the characters, the political intrigue...
I just fell into this book and became part of the world.
The world (part of a system with 2 suns) has an interesting season cycle and two different peoples, the Winters and the Summers.
Technology arrives when the offworlders can be there and they take them away later.This sets up the worlds for political intrigue.
I loved this book and will try and find the sequels.For those of you who didn't love it like I did ;-P
Hmm, I'm not really sure what to think of this book. I feel like I could have liked it, but it was just too much, and at the same time not enough. It was long, but the events and scenes passed quickly, told from several perspectives. There was tons of information, a lot of it seemingly pointless, and yet I still felt lost and like I didn't know the characters well. Nor did I particularly care about them. I also didn't like the world this was set in.Overall, it was too much work to read this with little payoff.
Vinge asks us to consider whether this is justifiable, even if the mers are not intelligent creatures, and this echoes real-life issues of animal rights and anti-colonial movements.3) Although The Snow Queen, based on Hans Christian Andersen's fairy tale, is in some ways very much in the tradition of epic fantasy, complete with royalty, palace intrigue, and apparent magic, Vinge refigures the fantastic in favor of the scientific.
Arienrhod, the Snow Queen, is completely corrupted by her absolute power over her subjects, and Sparks is changed from an innocent and good young man to an executioner and murderer at the hands of Arienrhod and with the power their relationship gives him.
The “Winter” clan who governs Tiamat craves the technology that will make their life more comfortable, but the Hegemony, the real rulers of several worlds, keeps Tiamat (and, therefore, the Water of Life) in their control by restricting technological development.The Snow Queen has been ruling Tiamat for the Winter clan for 150 years, but everything on Tiamat is about to change because the planet’s unusual orbit is nearing the phase where the black hole will become unstable, closing the planet to outside influence.
It involves our protagonists, Moon and Sparks, a pair of teenage cousins and lovers who belong to the Summer clan.Joan Vinge’s The Snow Queen won the Hugo Award for Best Novel in 1981 and I respect the opinion of several people I know who love it and claim it as one of their favorite science fiction novels.
On one hand I loved the sci-fi elements of this book.
A world which is periodically reduced to a "primitive" state, controlled by the Hegemony for the purpose of harvesting it's most precious resource.On the other is the drama surrounding the Winter Queen, her Summer clone and their joint love.Honestly I would have enjoyed the book with far less of the latter and more of the former.
The dramatical parts of the book really dragged for me.
I would have preferred Moon stay with BZ and Sparks to get the punishment he deserved.Overall though it wasn't a bad book but I won't be reading any more of the series.
Vinge used Hans Christian Andersen's The Snow Queen as inspiration for this tale, the plot is packed with sci-fi goodness, and reminded me of so many other science fiction classics, it humbled me to realize most of them were written after this influential book.The book begins a bit slow, but once you get used to the pacing you will be rewarded because Ms. Vinge paces herself throughout the book, allowing the story to simmer and develop its rich flavor over time.
Note that more than half of these were published after The Snow Queen, I just happened to read them first; it would be fairer to say that some of them are reminiscent of The Snow Queen, rather than vice versa.All in all, highly recommended for science fiction fans who like character stories set in complex worlds.
Vinge's The Snow Queen isn't on the list.What dragged me down at the very beginning was the overly lyrical style, unoriginal plot set-up and banal characters of her young protagonists.
I mean, the guy was passive-aggressive and blamed everyone else for both life's disappointments and his own stupid decisions, and then turns into a very evil thug...
Isn't this supposed to be "fantasy" because of the setting, not because it's plot is centered on a pathetic juvenile love story gone wrong?Most of the other characters are better.
(hide spoiler)]I find it difficult to imagine that Vinge intended so many of her characters to actually be repugnant.
I came across this book when looking for fairy tale retelling books. I recently have gotten into this genre and I did not know about this one. I really enjoyed it, but it was a little confusing in the beginning but I got things straightened out by a third of the book. Lots going on and a page turner for sure!
Citala sam je tjedan dana, pijuckajuci je i uzivajuci u predivnim recenicama, a morala sam smoci snagu da se otrgnem iz njenog zimskog zagrljaja jer sam se bojala napustiti taj fenomenalni svijet i likove koji su puno puta sutljivi kad bi trebali biti najglasniji... Imala sam srece pa je i snjegic pao :) Prekrasno dijete SF-a i Andersena
In perioada rece puterea ii revine Reginei Iernii, iar in perioada calda celei din taramul Verii.Cele doua curti sunt diferite din foarte multe puncte de vedere: in vreme ce curtea de iarna este foarte bine dezvoltata din punct de vedere tehnologic si fac tot posibilul pentru a se mentine la putere cat mai mult timp, cea de vara se apropie foarte mult de natura, traind din agricultura si pescuit si incercand sa protejeze mediul inconjurator.
Probably 3.5 Stars.Reading this classic science fiction novel more than 35 years after it came out reveals that it still has the power to affect the reader.As some have mentioned the language is definitely flowery and the pace is slow.
But through a variety of story developments they are separated and the central plot is about how/when/whether they will be brought back together again.There are some really enduring aspects of space opera that are included.
The Hegemony, which is a confederation of planets has an outpost on Tiamat but they try to respect the cultural traditions of the planet.One interesting feature of the story is the centrality of sexism and the fight for a woman to be recognized in a mans world.
I have mixed feelings about this book. On the one hand, I thought the world building was fascinating and fantastic, plus there was an array of interesting minor characters. On the other hand, I really struggled to relate at all to the main protagonists. The cousins seemed brattish and petulant (especially Sparks) and the Snow Queen was just a bit too pantomime-villain for me. So, while I quite enjoyed this book, it wasn't enough to make me want to seek out the rest of the series.
I really had a hard time with this one. I was excited to read it, I generally love a new take on an old folktale, but geeeeeeeeesh some of these characters!World building-greatmagic system-greatcharacters? omg I was annoyed by everyone! ughI made myself finish, and Im glad I did, but I dont want to see these people anymore. Part of the problem was also a lot of exposition....
i did like the 'pomo' read, and genre fiction in general, and i think seduced her by giving the impression i knew how this book was written.
as in, cultures, colleagues, entire worlds are depicted as oppressive of women, and a hero is one who can see past gender...some have noted this parallels herbert's dune, but i read this before that, i like this much more than that- romantic ideals trump eugenic neitzschean conspiracy, however it turns out.
I am a sucker for this romance, this sort of space opera...ps if anyone wants to make a miniseries like game of thrones: do this book!
A primitive planet with a long year is supported by off-world Technology (brought in by transmission via Black Hole) in its long winter, at the end of which the Winter Queen will be supplanted by the Summer Queen and the offworlders will leave.
The Winter Queen plots to renew her reign (via cloning) in summer.
The other books in the Snow Queen series are World's End (1984); The Summer Queen (1991), an extremely extended direct sequel to The Snow Queen in the form of a family romance; and Tangled Up in Blue (2000) set at the time of the original novel and featuring a crime investigation told in noir terms.
This Science Fantasy novel follows the plot line of Andersen's fairy tale The Snow Queen, with main characters Moon as Gerda, Sparks as Kai, and Arienrhod as the eponymous protagonist.
Characters' names sound a bit silly first, but they fit their "Summer" savage cultural background and contrast "Winters'" and otherworlders' names.Beside Andersen's story, the novel steers toward one very important recurring point of history, bringing together several cultures in one event called "the Change": The winter queen goes into the sea and is replaced by the summer queen, all watched by two otherworld cultures.
