https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/761789.One_Fearful_Yellow_Eye
I’ve had moments where I’ve started to regret that decision.While I had fond memories of MacDonald’s tales of the Florida beach bum who makes his living recovering funds that were stolen by semi-legal means or conned from the victims, re-reading these early books from the’60s with a 2010 perspective is starting to depress me because the attitudes and portrayals of women are so painful that they make an episode of Mad Men look like feminist propaganda.McGee is summoned to Chicago by an old girlfriend, Glory, who had married Fortner Geis, a prominent and respected surgeon who has recently died after a long illness.
McGee's views (and I'd presume to a bit MacDonald's) on homosexuals and Blacks appear in this novel and they are nearly there, but only reach the uncanny valley of sensitivity towards other groups:"I'm always skeptical of the male who makes a big public deal about how he hates fairies, how they turn his stomach, how he'd like to beat the hell out of them.
Language like that was seen as progressive in the 60s, in certain circles.
Hell, language like that might sound progressive in Texas, Idaho, or Arizona in certain circles now.
One of McGee's women 'friends' who he had helped out (Kempers review of this book where he said the portrayal of women makes Mad Men look like Feminist Propaganda made me laugh, and it's sort of accurate, although women are very weirdly portrayed in MacDonald's novels, it's sort of a bizarre mix of sexual liberation and deep down women want to be a no-strings attached fuck buddy with hulking / morse beach bums (let's include Meyer in this, too.
In addition to recovering what has been stolen by the bad guys, it will be McGee's job to restore the poor woman to a state of health and physical well-being--unless, of course, she manages to get killed along the way.In this case, one of these previously broken birds (the book's description, not mine), Glory Doyle, turns to McGee for help a second time.
Can McGee cure the poor woman and turn her into a sexual dynamo while at the same time he deals out justice to the bad guys?
The eighth novel in the Travis McGee series finds Travis far from his sunny home aboard The Busted Flush in southern Florida.
In fact, the story starts with Travis descending into Chicago O’Hare Airport in wintertime, responding to a distress phone call from Glory Geiss, an old flame who has recently become a widow.
Dr. Geiss’s son and daughter are convinced Glory has absconded with it so Glory would like Travis to track down what happened and clear her name.This was another enjoyable entry in the series.
Travis, indeed, is on his own…and not at all in his element.
I like that about these novels.
Marvelous Travis McGee, modern knight errant, here. Trav flies north to Chicago to help out an old friend who turns out to be a rich widow. The only trouble is nobody knows where all of her late husband's dough has gone. The brutal Chicago winter doesn't appeal to McGee, but he doesn't slow down to get to the bottom of things. This title reminds me why I like the series. Lee Child offers an insightful introduction to this reissue.
McGee travels to Chicago and there it's cold and it's dark, much too dark for me, in more ways than one.
(I lived in Chicago one winter, that's all I could take, and was never so happy to see a city in the rear view mirror of my car as it was just so painfully cold, but I do hear the city is great in the summer months.) This is the darkest (to me) of McGee's adventures so far, and the plot consists of a mess of relatives whose connections were, well, just too messy for much contemplation.
I prefer MacDonald/McGee to be more on the warm (literally and figuratively) side and this one hurt, the bad guy is truly horrific.
One of the best reads. Loved it.A great adventure with Trav !!
Nefariousness and intrigue occur with lots of beautiful social commentary that always feels current despite being written over 40 years ago.I miss the biting banter when Trav is working with/for women who are friends.
Because he likes these women, they are usually implausibly perfect and bland.
Give me a flawed, self-absorbed, psycho bitch any day over the giving, elegant career woman.
Snooze.Fav quotes: - "Every day, not matter how much you fight it, you learn a little more about yourself, and all most of it does is teach humility." - "So in the endless twilight of noonday I went northward, locked into the traffic flow, listening to ghastly news from all over.
Yes, I know I raced through you quite quickly and you might have got the impression than I was entranced by you, but really, I was just trying to get to the end.The more I consider it, I may just have issues with the whole sub-genre of Florida crime fiction.
Yes, I obviously liked it enough that this is the second Travis McGee novel I’ve read, but I’m far from convinced that there’ll be a third for me.There’s something languid to the prose of these Florida books which doesn’t charm me.
Go for one of the later novels where Spenser is dating the shrink, and can put a politically correct spin on everything he is thinking and doing.Also, in ONE FEARFUL YELLOW EYE the scene where Travis stumbles upon a dead guy who had been tortured for information so freaked me out that this may be the only one of the twenty-one Travis McGee novels that I have only read once.
Although, there is a bit of loot to be recovered, if Travis can compose himself enough to stop looking at and thinking about that fearful yellow eye.
When I was thinking about tackling the Travis McGee series, I consulted my mom on this.
(MMR) To qualify for this designation start with all of Agatha Christie (88 books) and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle (4 novels 200+ stories).She was woman of few words and her respond was pursed lips and a few knowing nods.
This expression had only been observed for Les Miserables and Donizetti's "Lucia di Lammermoor" (best opera of all time).So, Travis McGee is was.
The book had torture, LSD, rampant philosophizing and Nazis in a Florida condo.It was bad.
A book I loved better the second time of reading.Bronzed beach bum McGee, turns up in snowy Chicago in December to help a widowed friend who tells him somebody has stolen her dead husband's fortune.This book has one of the finest plots in the series and leaves you guessing until the very end. I also must admit that the poignant ending fired up my emotions as only truly great writing can. John D MacDonald was a master at work and the Travis McGee series is a timeless reminder of a man at the height of his power.
I loved the first two in the series, but since then, I haven't been able to get interested in the plots. It's confusing, because the writing is great and there are always very interesting sections. I just don't love series in general. In this case, McGee, I find the books sprawling and uneven. I adored MacDonald's one off A Bullet For Cinderella (1955) - it was tighter, contained, very full but also shorter.
MacDonald always delivers great characters and good plots plus language always seems real with overtones about life in modern times
In terms of formula, author MacDonald makes a big deviation in setting, as much of the story takes place outside McGee’s Florida habitat and places him on the streets of Chicago, a few northern suburbs, and the desolate rural towns west of the city, in the onset of winter.
Blackmail is the obvious reason, and MacDonald/McGee spends a great deal of time inquiring many possible suspects and motives.
The story was of interest to me, since I’m very familiar with the setting.
Deep down though, McGee has a heart, and MacDonald makes him vulnerable.
(view spoiler)[One problem is that it hasn’t aged well; it’s attitudes towards homosexuality and bisexuality might have seemed tolerant then, but they come across as incredibly back-handed now.
There’s also something really strange about the role sex and sexual desire plays in the story - not so much in the plot, but in the character development, in the way that McGee has sex with troubled women to help them heal or grow psychologically.
The plot also has a truly bizarre thread - Israeli Nazi-hunters - that has almost nothing to do with anything else in the book and operates as a deus ex machina.
MacDonald has written many other books other than the McGee series including his most famous which was made into a film twice.
Both Peck and Mitchum were old but still kicking when the last film was made and it was cool to have them both show up in cameos.
The name of the actual book the films are based on is The Executioners.
So were both Raymond Chandler and Ross Macdonald yet they seem to have had the technique of a more subtle way with similies and beautiful metaphorical styling whereas John D.
Copyrighted 1966, very dated style, not as good as Lawrence Block. Dumb story line. I thought I would never finish this book. Bless his heart, I remembered John MacDonald as being better than this.
However, in McGee’s mid-1960s world, “all the dragons go around looking just like anybody else” (p140).ONE FEARFUL YELLOW EYE abounds in mid-Sixties pop culture references--Jack Paar, Cassius Clay, Smokey the Bear, Jack LaLanne, the joke of McGee maybe being “the man from A.U.N.T.” (p233)--including some that were fun to Google when my memory failed to ID them: like pro football’s James Taylor and Nigerian middleweight Dick Tiger.John D.
But, in retrospect, he shows a curious dismissiveness about homosexuals and disdain for the non-medical use of LSD.ONE FEARFUL YELLOW EYE offers a solid plot, classic McGeeness, brisk violence and our boat-bum hero’s pragmatic epiphany that: “Every day, no matter how you fight it, you learn a little more about yourself, and all most of it does is teach humility” (p222).
This isn't a bad thing, but it's different.Around halfway through, during one of the flashbacks, you learn that a main character with whom you are supposedly meant to sympathize with (or at least see as a decent enough person) commits what I can only refer to in good conscience as date rape.
Maybe, aside from McGee, there are no good characters here.
But it left a sour taste in my mouth, and I put the book down for a month.
But with the bad taste in my mouth, I just don't have it in me to read this.
MacDonald writes better than most in this genre so a Travis McGee novel is often light reading spun into a comfortable, recognizable formula that typically makes for good fun.With my expectations high for so many reasons, One Fearful Yellow Eye disappointed on multiple levels.
And finally, include Travis's rescue from certain death through an absurd, last-minute twist.So One Fearful Yellow Eye offers an absence of the familiar Florida milieu, plenty of unpleasantness, plus an overdose of absurdity.
Yes, the mystery here is intriguing, but otherwise, One Fearful Yellow Eye fails on almost every dimension.
McGee is described in this book as a savior of wounded birds, meaning women in trouble.
Yeah, that's what women are like.
Oh, sorry, spoiler alert, but, really, don't read this book.One of the characters in the story is gay.
macDonald takes this opportunity to give his (or McGee's) view on gay men.
You kind of have to read this two page exposition to get it, but, really, don't bother.It comes down to McGee (MacDonald), as an enlightened white male, is superior to gays, women, blacks, rednecks, but he understands them and condescendingly is willing to coexist with the.
It would have been nice if we still had MacDonald around to tell us why this one was his favorite.
When they finally tie up, she explains that during his final year or so of sickness, her husband had turned all of his assets – first edition John MacDonald books and the like – into cash (about $600,000), but all the cash was gone.
McGee suspect that the good husband was being blackmailed.
Turn in to see how MacDonald gets out of this one while attempting to add all of the women who live on the Georgia-Florida border to his hit list.
This time around, Travis McGee is on the trail of the lost fortune of a recently deceased Chicago doctor.
McGee knows the young wife of the older doctor and the angry family has the long knives out for his beach buddy.
The novel is full of charming character bits and great storytelling as McGee tries to pick up a long dead trail.
One unfortunate tic of the series is on full display in One Fearful Yellow Eye. McGee meets broken people as he walks in the footsteps of the victim.
Travis McGee, part rebel, and a part philosopher........a ruggedly sexy Floridian boat bum with a special talent for helping friends in trouble or get a revenge on their death.This time McGee was called from an ex-girlfriend Gloria Geis in Chicago who married a Dr. Fortner Geis about the disapperance of six hundred thousand dollars, and has become a mystery after the Dr. died.
So, Travis McGee flies to Chicago to untangle the mystification of how and who extorted the $600.000 from a dying man.
It's very brutal at the end, and as usual John D.
MacDonald delivers an excitement nerve wracking story.
JD McDonald's Travis McGee books were my first experiences with the private detective / happy maverick moral loner / mystery genre, and after decades of reading others, Travis McGee remains my favorite. Stone Barrington in Stuart Woods' novels is OK but formulaic; Robert Crais' Elvis Cole is a close second to McGee, but Crais' Joe Pike character, while darker, has more potential for development. Plus, Travis McGee is just very cool!But I digress. John D. McDonald was the master, and Travis McGee set the standard for me. All these books are good...great airplane reads and perfect for the beach.
I've read all of this series and loved every one. I read them in order - I always read a series in order, in fact, I'm compulsive about it - because I like to follow the character's life and the author's writing as they both grow. Mr. MacDonald never disappointed - each one is a great thrill ride and they got better each time. Read my review on "The Deep Blue Good-by" to meet Travis, and get ready for some great reading!
I recollect liking Macdonald's books when I read them decades ago, so I looked forward to reading this one. I was disappointed. Travis, the "hero," comes across as a pompous blowhard, homophobic, disrespecting of women, with a touch of the bully. The story itself is OK until the contrived ending. Now I have to decide whether to read another of those oldies to see if this one was an anomoly.
One of the more horrifying of his books (I have learned to ignore the frigid women issues, or I couldn't read Travis McGee). Travis was an early Jack Reacher, same background and same attitude to life. Luckily, that little short guy wasn't around to make a move about McGee.
