https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5996153-blood-promise
(Side note: this is why I did not enjoy the second Twilight book at all.)I hope this will not come as a shock or spoiler if I tell you that these two characters do eventually reunite, otherwise there would be no story to tell, but until they do, Rose has only her own thoughts about Dimitri to ponder.And boy does she ponder.
The second part of the book—when she sees Dimitri again—is three times better than the first, seeing that it’s the moment we’d all been waiting for and the events are more intense.
It is by no means the worst book ever written, but the fact that Richelle Mead didn't put much work into it is obvious.Let me start with the positives however.
In this book Mead attempts to have two story lines going simultaneously - Lissa's and Rose's, but neither of them is particularly exciting.
Plus, because the series is written from Rose's POV, the difficulty of relaying Lissa's story is solved by utilizing Rose's spirit-bond ability to get into Lissa's thoughts.
Overall, just a lazily written book IMO.I think when the series is finished and we look back at "Blood Promise" we will think that this book could have been easily omitted.
“We need to be together.""Why?" I asked softly. The word was carried away on the wind, but he heard."Because I want you."I gave him a sad smile, wondering if we'd meet again in the land of the dead. "Wrong answer," I told him.I let go. I look him in the eye. "I will always love you.” “That’s what I was supposed to say. . . .” he gasped out. Those were his last words." Once again, I absolutely loved it! It's amazing!! I will admit I cried again!---------------------------------------------------
I see you—which will be soon.Love, D.”  We are really thankful that she had forgot that lesson :)2)Avery!!
Two shadow-kissed weren't enough (Reed and Simon), she wanted Lissa too.
They welcome her and especially Olena treats Rose as her own daughter!I loved his grandmother(Yeva).
P.P.S. Just because I like you, it doesn’t mean I still don’t think you’re an evil creature of the night.
“You’re the only one I want, Rose.” It's just me or I loved that voicemail?
I don’t know.” “Have you ever been in love?” She shook her head.
Blood promise is everything i could have hoped for.
It was truly a great book.
The story also included a few flash backs with Dimitri that were not in any of the other books.
In this last book, rose definetly became more mature.
& blood promise, like shadow kissed, left us with a major cliff hanger...But hope still hangs on a thread.
I CAN'T WAIT!!!There is suppose to be one other book after spirit bound and possibly a spin off( i read on her site).
I would defienely recomend reading blood promise.
This series has taken over my life completely and I am in no way complaining bUT HOW DOES ONE MAKE A PERSON FEEL SO MANY DIFFERENT THINGS I DONT UNDERSTAND WHAT IM SUPPOSED TO DO WITH MY LIFE RIGHT NOW SURE I COULD START THE NEXT BOOK BUT I ACTUALLY CANNOT FUNCTION BECAUSE OF THIS ENDING AND IM KIND OF HOPEFULLY BUT ALSO IN A LOT OF PAIN AND THERES A LOT OF INTERNAL SCREAMING GOING ON GOOD AND BAD AND I JUST DONT KNOW WHAT TO SAY OR DO OKAY I JUST LOVE THIS SERIES OK
(+0.25 stars)There are some other new characters thrown into the mix in this one; a few I liked and a few I'm glad met their end.
Same with Sydney and her whole situation; it really felt like that was all thrown in at the last minute.Also, I was annoyed with all the trips Rose took into Lissa's head; it was a poor plot device and one that had just recently shown up in Succubus Shadows too, so I wasn't all that thrilled to see it repeated again.
5 Forgotten Lessons Stars  Spoilers!!! So much happens in these books that I use my reviews as reminds so lots of Spoilers!!!RECAP:Book 4, Blood Promise, starts with Rose trekking around Russia looking for Dimitri , to kill him. In Russia Rose meets up with a human named Sydney Sage and a Moroi named Abe. Sydney is an Alchemist who helps Rose find Dimitri's family. Rose starts living with Dimitri's mom, grandma, and 3 sisters. They didn't know Dimitri was turned Strigoi. Rose of course tells th
So much happens in these books that I use my reviews as reminds so lots of Spoilers!!!RECAP:Book 4, Blood Promise, starts with Rose trekking around Russia looking for Dimitri , to kill him.
Dimitri knocks Rose out and holds her prisoner telling her that he wants to turn her Strigoi by choice.
Rose with the help of Oksana and Adrian are able to save Lissa from where she is in Russia.
At the very end of the book Rose gets a letter from Russia.
It's from Dimitri telling Rose she forgot the lesson of making sure the Strigoi is dead.
ABOUT BLOOD PROMISE, MY BEST FRIEND HAD A DREAM THAT ROSE HAD DIMITRIS BABY .I NOE THAT THEY CANT HAVE ANY BUT IT WAZ DIS KIND OF MESSED UP THING THAT HAPPENED, SO THEY HAD A BABY.
HE KINDA LOOKS LIKE A HUMAN INSTEAD OF A STRIGOI SHE ASKES HIM WHY AND HE HAD A THEORY THAT WHEN HE DOESNT DRINK BLOOD HE THINKS HE TURNS MORE HUMAN SO HES TRYING TO TURN HUMAN & I THINK ITS WORKING!!!!!!!!BUT HE ALWAYS HAS MOOD SWINGS AND LOOKS ALOT WEAKER THAN USUAL 'CAUSE HE DOESNT DARE DRINK BLOOD!SHE THEN GOES TO SEE LISA IN THE ROYAL COURT..AND GUESS WAT??????????
First half of the book: Rose has to go a hard way full of stones and death and pain.
She meets Sydney and Dimitri's family and gets to know his world.
Rose is ready to do anything to find and to kill him.
And finally, she finds him...Second half of the book: Dimitri as a Strigoi.
A very very evil version of Dimitri.
He is completely different from the Dimitri we know.
And the relationship between him and Rose changes completely.
Everything changes.(view spoiler)[
(hide spoiler)]This book broke my heart.
It is exciting and cruel and unfair and...I love it.
I love the whole series.
The 5 star rating at the top says nothing about why I loved this book back then, nor does it say why I still think about this story even now.
I just wanted to finally put some random thoughts down about one of my all time favorite books.So why was a middle-of-the-series book my favorite?
(hide spoiler)]Anyway, I've been thinking about this book more and more because of the upcoming Rose & Dimitri in Russia story that will be released shortly.
I can't wait for this because I felt like it was the one part of book 4 which we didn't get to see closure on.
Once again, I absolutely loved this and it was a roller coaster ride HOWEVER it was a bit dull in some parts and I felt it dragged a bit. I adored it though, and that ending/bridge scene omg
I'm still trying to get over the major twist at the ending which I was kind of expecting but I didn't know that it would be that big.The one thing that I didn't like with this book was that Lissa was kind of "whiny." In Rose's views from her eyes, we were able to see what was going on back at St. Vladimir Academy.
At the end of the 3rd book, I was disappointed in Lissa and it got even worse in this book.
She did get better toward the end which was good.Another thing I didn't like was about Christian and his relationship with Lissa.
I'm about to cry right now... That was fu**ing beautiful.
The eyes that could astutely spot any danger in the area would regard me wonderingly and worshipfully, like I was the most beautiful and amazing woman in the world.”I know a lot of people thought this was the worst book in this series, but I disagree.
Rose is on a mission to find Dimitri the love of her life and to kill him because he was turned into a Strigoi.
Anyways Sydney is soon tasked with the duty of getting Rose to the town she's been looking for by her superiors.
Rose meets the whole family and she also breaks the news to them that Dimitri is a Strigoi.
I really feel like Rose developed a lot as a character and she's definitely more likable now than she was in the beginning,however,unfortunately,Lisa is getting on my nerves a little bit.
What's been annoying in this book is that Lisa seems more angry at Rose for leaving her than being actually worried for Rose.
I mean,for God's sake, Rose has her own life and her own problems that she needs to solve,the world doesn't just revolve around the royal moroi.
The whole aspect of Rose going to Dimitri's hometown was really interesting and I really enjoyed reading about her adventures and her journey.
En medio de todo, Rose siempre tiene actitud de dura, de que puede con todo, pero es sólo una tapadera porque por dentro está destrozada.Hay pocas cosas que puedo decir del libro sin entrar en spoilers, pero lo que sí diré es que, al menos hasta el momento, es de los libros que más me han llegado al corazón este año.
Ahora y como no puedo aguantarme más, voy a comentar algunas cosas con spoilers, así que si no has leído este libro, vete ya.TE ESTOY AVISANDO.
I felt she wasted words, describing scenes & scenarios that didn't need to take up that much space & there could've have been far more time spent on the meat of the story & character development - to me (Rose esp) stayed very.....level.
Why Rose wasn't allowed the emotional aftermath & the reason is b'c Mead spent too much wasted time the 1st quarter of the book, so by the end, she had to hurry & cram in all action (Avery/Lissa), in order to get Rose home pronto so everyone could forgive her quickly.So here's the thing - did Rose have a lobotomy?
The second half of this book was PERFECTION OMG.
If I had to give the first 3/4 of this book a review, I would have given it two stars at the most.The plot was painfully, agonizingly slow with many, many unnecessary characters and plotlines that just bugged the hell out of me.
What happened at the end...
well bugger me!Then at the very end with the note...
Be still my beating heart!The Avery/Lissa side story was complete rubbish.
Everyone's casual treatment of Adrian was complete rubbish.
But the ending...
that beautiful ending made up for all of it.
This book is hands down amazing!Blood Promise is the fourth installment of the Vampire Academy series.
In this book, Richelle Mead takes us to Russia together with the badassest character Rose Hathaway, in search for the love of her life, Dimitri.
Even the epic reunion of Rose and Dimitri was perfectly executed.One thing that I also loved about this sequel was the introduction of new characters like Sydney, Abe, Mark, Oksana, and Dimitri's family.
Sydney, in particular, is such a promising character.
As a whole, I did enjoy this book A LOT.
All these relationships coming back together, I seriously think that was my fav part of the book.Basically:I love Adrian so much, like, so much Rose is amazing, and the character development, wowI didn't realise how much I would miss Rose and Lissa being togetherRose and her mum were so cute at the endThe head-mistress or whatever she was, was so sweet to Rose at the end OMG, didn't expect that *person* was Rose's dad!!
That was awesome!I loved Sydney, and can't wait to read BloodlinesI don't even really think I'm that big a fan of Dimitri, and now I realllly don't like him as a Strogoi :/I just knew that (Spoiler ahead) Avery was going to end up evilYeah...
I’d said it before and meant it: Alive or undead, the love of my life was a badass. The first half of the book was a bit slow but then the story really did pick up. It was really entertaining but in my opinion, most of the characters were so annoying. I was really frustrated at times. Rosa, Lissa, and Dimitri were all getting on my nerves. That being said, I enjoyed the new characters that were introduced and I can't wait to read more about them and to see where the stories will go now :)
Three words; i'm just going to do one this time.
Amazing.I love this series.
I've been a fan since the beginning and I can't helped but get sucked in every time.
This is my favorite vampire series.
Heck, it's one of my most favorites, vampire or not.The plot is fantastic, action packed, twists and turns galore.
The writing is amazing.
I just absolutely enjoyed reading this, I did NOT want to put it down.This was by far the most emotional of the series.
For once, I have no idea what is going to happen next and I LOVE it!
I stumbled over Mead's Vampire Academy series more or less by accident, however I'm glad I did!
They are fast paced and Mead, obviously a good story-teller, creats an intriguing story with many different sides to it.
Blood promise is darker and more brooding then the former three novels but just as fast paced.Rose has traveled to Russia and Siberia in order to keep her promise to Dimitri, which will set his soul free( and hopefully give her peace of mind)She eventually finds him but her mission takes an unexpected and dreadfull turn...
El libro anterior de la saga dejó el nivel muy alto y mía expectativas por las nubes. Y por supuesto que ste libro fue increíble, siento que la saga se pone cada vez mas interesante, me he encontrado un montón de sorpresas a través de la historia y los libros solo prometen mejorar.Rose es uno de mis personajes femeninos favoritos y en este libro continuó demostrando esa fuerza y esa terquedad que tanto me enamoran de ella. Por otro lado debo decir que en este libro empecé a querer mucho a Adrian! Reseña Completa: http://bastvilard.blogspot.com.co/201...
Η φίλτατη Μαρία Βρυσανάκη μου έδωσε υπόσχεση πως θα λατρέψω το τέταρτο βιβλίο της σειράς.
Η Αθηνούλα μου έδωσε υπόσχεση πως θα δω έναν Ντίμιτρι , μα τι Ντιμίτρι.
Επομένως περιτριγυρίζομαι από τα καλύτερα gals <3Οι πρώτες 150 σελίδες είναι αρκετά εισαγωγικές σε βαθμό που ανησύχησα μήπως η Richelle Mead έχασε το χάρισμά της.
Ή έστω να έρθει ο Άντριαν στα όνειρά μας και να μας αποκαλεί «Μικρό μου νταμπίρ».Είναι υπέροχο να παρακολουθείς τους αγαπημένους σου ήρωες να αυτοκαταστρέφονται, να παρακμάζουν με αποτέλεσμα να χάνουν την ταυτότητά τους.
Υπόσχομαι να διαβάσω και τα επόμενα δύο βιβλία, να βυθιστώ στον βαμπιρικό κόσμο της Mead.
3.5 stars. “He'd always understood me, and part of what we'd worked on was how to temper that impulsive need to run into danger with reason and calculation. I had a feeling no one else in this world would ever understand me like he did.”  First half of the book is the worst one in the series so far, but the second half is the best one in the series so far. As you will see in the further paragraphs, this book has me conflicted. On one side, it’s obvious that Mead continued with the series solely
On one side, it’s obvious that Mead continued with the series solely for the money and not because she has another story to tell, because clearly she doesn’t, but on the other side, it’s exciting to continue to read about the future of Rose and Dimitri’s relationship.
I don't understand why is Rose constantly treating Adrian like garbage when he has been nothing but good to her.
I understand it’s hard to get over the first love, especially after its painful end, but it makes me furious how she gives him mixed signals, because she can’t make up her mind.
I really love him, (view spoiler)[ I knew there was something bugging me about Avery and thank god Adrian didn't fell for her truly.
I just want him to be happy too so I was ok with the idea of him and Rose being together if Dimitri would have been dead.
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[ And the scenes where Rose had these memories of Dimitri...
I was reading there like I MISS HIM SO MUCH.
(hide spoiler)]And then we have Abe.
I hope we'll see more of him in the next book and get to know his secrets.
Just because I like you, it doesn't mean I still don't think you're an evil creature of the night. You are. ↑And there you have the only good line in the whole book. You're welcome.Okay, I would like to tell you the story of my trip to drive from Texas to Florida for vacation a couple of years ago. It will take me about 300 pages to let you have the true experience that I had - sitting in the car, driving part of the time, stopping for gas & food. Plus, I know you are interested in every hi
Plus, I know you are interested in every highway that we had to take, where we passed through, and what we talked about to pass the time.What?
You think a couple hundred pages of that might be slightly boring?That's true.
Plus, oh joy, she once again reminds us of everything that has happened in the last few books - leaving no detail out.
Because, you know, we need to be reminded of what Strigoi, Moroi, and Dhampir's are again.
We need an in-depth explanation in every book.
(I'm lying, it's totally you.)Book:
Rose and Lissa's friendship means everything to me! Also !!Sydney!! <3
