https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/425100.Dance_Hall_of_the_Dead
4 starsI have been reading Tony Hillerman books for almost 30 years.
Now, with the help of Goodreads, I am going back and reading all the ones that I missed.
Hillerman was so respected by his portrayal of the Navajo nation, that they adopted him into the tribe.
In this book, Lt. Joe Leaphorn is assigned to look for a missing Navajo youth who may have been present at the murder of a Zuni youth.Two more people die before Leaphorn solves the case.
The unit became a sequence, the dot became a line, and lines tended to extend, to lead places, to move in directions.I wasn't even going to continue with this series.The first book, The Blessing Way, was a horrible combination of boredom and confusion.
This is scads better than the first novel - well, it would have been difficult to be WORSE.This book continues following Navajo cop Joe Leaphorn.
As an example of this, the book states that Zuñi make "Navajo jokes" the same way white people would make derogatory jokes about the Polish.
This is the second of Tony Hillerman's celebrated books featuring Lieutenant Joe Leaphorn of the Navajo Tribal Police.
Later, Leaphorn would be assisted by a younger officer, Jim Chee, but this book, which won The Edgar Award, belongs to Leaphorn alone.A young Zuni Indian boy, Ernesto Cata, disappears while training for his important role in an upcoming tribal ceremony.
Along the way, Leaphorn reveals and in return discovers a great deal about the cultural and religious traditions of both the Navajo and the Zuni peoples.This is among the most unique crime fiction series of the last fifty years.
Lieutenant Joe Leaphorn is called in to find George, who is Navajo, while the Zuni police search for Ernesto.
Being the only Navajo in a Zuni school George is a lonely boy with mystical inclinations and wants to be a Zuni.While investigating near the Bowlegs home Joe Leaphorn is approached by Cecil, who tells him that George is running away from the kachina, the one that got Ernesto.
Jason's Fleece may be involved in distribution of narcotics.The story is a window into both Zuni and Navajo beliefs through the eyes of Lieutenant Joe Leaphorn.
One that I'll re-read to get the full effect. A plot that kept me guessing. Loads of detail about Hopi religion, which was very interesting. Settings out on the mesa and at deserted hogans. One of Hillerman's better books.
(From what I heard, it was because Anglo guests simply did not know how to behave.) Leaphorn, too, is something of an outsider here, negotiating the challenges of working both with somewhat secretive Zuni law enforcement, investigating the bloody murder of a Zuni youth, and with the FBI, investigating something that long remains unclear—in Hillerman’s world, the Feds use their Rez colleagues but rarely share with them.
Joe’s accustomed skills at unhurried, sensitive interrogation (inevitably contrasting with those of culturally oblivious Anglo colleagues) are much on show, as is his impressive, adept reading of physical evidence and tracking signs.
Audiobook performed by George GuidallIt's book number two in Tony Hillerman's Joe Leaphorn series ...
need I say more?Good mysteries with a little Native American cultural information in the mix.
I love the way Leaphorn thinks things through before acting.
George Guidall does a good job on the audio.
He has good pacing and I really like the way he voices Leaphorn.
But the press of daily life got in my way and the library deadline was fast approaching, so I abandoned the audio and finished reading the second half of the book in a day.Definitely a series I will continue.
Some people found this particularly clever, and it's become quite influential in the field.One can clearly see the influence of this article in this early entry in the Leaphorn and Chee series, as Leaphorn is constantly saying he wants to understand White people.The plot concerns the murders of young Indian boys.
Many think it was because one of the boys broke some kind of taboo, but there's archaeologists and hippies also thrown into the mix.One can see why the series caught on, as there's some good writing and a decent mystery here.
This mystery features Joe Leaphorn and is set in Zuni land.
Joe is called to a conference of police officers because a Zuni boy has been found almost beheaded and his best friend a Navajo, George Bowlegs is missing.
Leaphorn only job is to locate the Navajo boy.
As he investigated he vegans to feel George is not the killer and must him before George is killed.
He has the help a white girl Susan.There is much cultural information about the Zuni story of man's beginning and the Navajo beginning that very good.
He explains how to hunt.
I love Tony Hillerman's books. He had a way of drawing you in and letting you learn about different Native American tribes all with a mystery attached to it.
His mysteries intertwine details about southwest Indian culture with the murder investigations of Navajo tribal police detective Joe Leaphorn.
The contrast between the Zuñi and Navajo cultures is a focal point of this book.
George Bowlegs, a Navajo boy, was attracted by this culture.
George's only friend was a Zuñi classmate, Ernesto Cata who shared many of the sacred activities including his designation as Shulawitsi (the Little Fire God) in the upcoming Shalako ceremonies.
Much of the tension between the two cultures is reflected when Leaphorn is summoned by the Zuñi tribal police to find George who has disappeared the day after the apparent murder of Ernesto.
This 1974 Edgar Best Novel winner was a re-read for me -- I've read and enjoyed all of Tony Hillerman's novels featuring Lt. Joe Leaphorn and Sgt. Jim Chee, alone and together.
We do learn that Leaphorn is conscientious almost to a fault, and that although he may no longer "believe" in the Navajo religiou in the same way that Jim Chee does, its ideas of harmony and balance still inform his thoughts and way of life, and sometimes bring him into conflict with the rules of his chosen profession.
He was training to be the Fire God in an upcoming religious ceremony and he was privy to secret tribal knowledge.
There is evidence that he was sharing this knowledge with his Navajo buddy George Bowlegs, contrary to tribal doctrine.
Young Bowlegs, fearing for his life, takes off on horseback to a secret Zuni place to try to make amends to the spirits, and Leaphorn must track him down before the killer does.
These Tony Hillerman Navajo Mysteries are a walk down memory lane for me!
My Mom was born in New Mexico and the minute Hillerman started churning out these books, she read them as fast as they were published.
This book takes place at the intersection of Zuni and Navajo spiritual practices, which added greatly to the interest for me.
George Bowlegs, the Navajo, had an interest in becoming a Zuni because of their mystical/spiritual traditions and ceremonies.
Throw in an archeological dig, a hippie commune, and possible drug trafficking and it's easy to become riveted.
Or the small wooden dolls the Zuñis made to represent them." The author's attention to detail in Dance Hall of the Dead is remarkable, conveying a strong sense of the rugged Southwestern landscape and the cultural and religious character of the people.In addition to the eighteen books in the Leaphorn and Chee series, Tony Hillerman wrote four other novels and seven nonfiction books or memoirs.
I felt as though Leaphorn was tied up too much in regulations and tradition and when he should have a bit more forceful - and a little less patient - he might have saved himself some immense trouble and...(view spoiler)[...saved a young boy's life!
I love the description, but really, get on with business, Mr. Leaphorn!Along this zigzagging pathway we encounter a hippie commune, an anthropologist hunting for ancient stone tools, and native Americans of two very different communities or backgrounds: Navajos and Zunis.
And I do love the character of Joe Leaphorn.
Tribal police officer Joe Leaphorn investigates the deaths of two boys, one Zuni, the other Navajo.
Some say Zuni spirits are involved; others, drugs.
Which is the truth?This is more of a 3.5, but I'll round up because I've read a later book in the series that was smooth as silk.
I had a hard time getting into this; there are issues with clarity and communication with the reader in the beginning of the book, and areas of disorientation later on in the book.
At times an awkward read and kind of frustrating, but worth it for fans of mystery.
A murder mystery, as usual on the Navajo reservation in the Chee-Leaphorn series. What makes this different was an indepth look at both Zuni and Navajo religeous rites and culture. This makes this more than a detective mystery, much more. It is very detailed and slow in a few places, but well worth the read. If you like to read about different cultures, this book is for you. There are some suspenseful moments that get you on the edge of your seat.
Second book in the series and winner of the 1974 Edgar for Best Mystery, this provided a unique look at the Zuni religion and Navajo life. Leaphorn is a patient policeman and the plotting was fairly deliberate but the setting made this well worth the time. Listened to the audio version which was ably read by the always good George Guidall.
Book: Dance Hall of the Dead by Tony Hillerman I thought that the way Hillerman based so much of the story around the secrecy of the Zuñi religion really pushed the way one had to think when reading the book. Tony Hillerman’s, The Dance Hall of the Dead, is a very interesting telling of the murder of a Zuñi boy by the name of Ernesto Cata. It is unclear whether or not it was the boy’s best friend, George Bowlegs, who killed him. Throughout the book we are given unreliable information by the peop
Book: Dance Hall of the Dead by Tony Hillerman	I thought that the way Hillerman based so much of the story around the secrecy of the Zuñi religion really pushed the way one had to think when reading the book.
Throughout the book we are given unreliable information by the people Lt. Joe Leaphorn, the Navajo investigator, interviews.
I liked how as I read farther into the book I had to remember if two peoples stories fit together.
I would recommend this book to anyone who likes mystery and detective stories but is looking for something out of the ordinary.
My public library book discussion group picked this as part of a series on Native American mysteries.
The contrast between the white culture,the Navajo culture and the Zuni culture, even in law enforcement, are clearly drawn from the very beginning of the book.Set in the New Mexico/Arizona area, this book is one of the most atmospheric mysteries I've read in a long time.
You will be drawn into the beautiful American Southwest.
The cultures of the Zuni and the Navajo are dealt with knowledgeably and respectfully.
Anyone with any interest in Native American cultures or the desert Southwest is going to love this.
A Review of the AudiobookOriginally published in 1973.Audiobook version released in 2005 by Harper Audio.Read by George Guidall.Duration: Approximately 6 hours.UnabridgedWinner of the 1974 Edgar Award,  Dance Hall of the Dead  is an early entry in the Leaphorn series and is one of the best.Joe Leaphorn of the Navajo Tribal Police is called into a case that technically occurred on the Zuni reservation but there is a Navajo involved. Ernesto Cata, a middle school-aged Zuni boy and his friend Georg
Joe is brought in by the FBI who is coordinating a joint FBI/Zuni/Navajo task force to find the boys.Leaphorn has the feeling that the Zunis think the Navajo boy killed the Zuni boy and he has just been brought in to lead a manhunt as far as the Zunis are concerned.
The FBI makes it clear that they think it is related to drug trafficking and they think the boys were just in the wrong place at the wrong time.Leaphorn thinks that it might be best to learn all he can about George Bowlegs and then try to figure out what happened to them.
Lt. Joe Leaphorn of the Navajo police becomes involved in the case of the disappearance and death of a young boy in this story the second of the Leaphorn series.
But as is often the case one death follows another and Leaphorn knows he has to find George before anyone else does.Leaphorn has always believed that there is a reason for everything.
In all things there is a pattern but in this situation Joe Leaphorn is struggling to find it.Tony Hillerman creates a wonderful picture of a certain time and place.
I'm so very glad that I was introduced to the Joe Leaphorn series.
It's a bit like the Longmire series, but instead told from the perspective of the Native police inspector, rather than the local police chief.
I really enjoy the information about the various Native cultures, in this book, the Zuni and Leaphorn's Navajo.
This story involves the murder of a Zuni boy and the follow-on murder of a Navajo man.
It involves the Zuni festival, to welcome the Shalako season and the desire of a Navajo boy to be introduced to the Zuni tribe and rites.
Leaphorn, a Navajo Police Officer, becomes involved in the disappearance of two local boys, one Navajo, one Zuni.
Several law enforcement agencies begin working together –“cooperating” would be overstating things - and while Leaphorn deals with finding the boys, Hillerman brings in one of the boy's families, the local hippie commune, and the area’s anthropological dig.
A fascinating sidelight to all of this is our inclusion in the way Leaphorn thinks and functions, thoughtfully, patiently, listening carefully and treading the line between legal code and Navajo ethics and laws.
I read much Hillerman long ago and this was a pleasant return.
This is the second book in Hillerman's series set in the desert southwest of New Mexico and Arizona on or near the Navajo reservation. This book was set on the Zuni Pueblo in New Mexico. A very good mystery and an excellent series. I love his beautiful descriptions of the desert and the natural environment. This is my second reading of this series which is outstanding. Highly recommended. Five (5) stars.
This is a good read and not very long. I like reading these Hillerman books because your not just reading a mystery, your are picking up some insights into other cultures.
I listened to this while driving from Central Oregon to Seattle, WA. The mystery was satisfying with enough twists to keep it interesting. What I enjoy more than anything in the Hillerman books is the look into Navajo culture. In this particular book, there was a look into the Navajo uneasy (and sometimes, downright hostile) relationship with the Zuni people. (4 Stars for the look into these cultures)
After being given a Tony Hillerman murder mystery when I was in the US, I’m now reading more of the Joe Leaphorn series. I admire the knowledge and respect Hillerman shows for the Navajo nation and the sometimes difficult relationships the Navajo have with other Native American tribes. I love the descriptions of the dramatic beauty of the American south-west deserts. Hillerman keeps the plot moving and the ending proves both unexpected and open-ended. A quick, good read.
4 StarsDance Hall of the Dead certainly improved upon its predecessor, The Blessing Way. Hillerman seemed to have a better idea of where the series would go and was able to continue to develop the characters.
What I love about the series is how Hillerman brought the setting to life.
Dance Hall of the Dead not only explores Navajo culture but also Zuñi culture.
Even though many books have copied off of this series, I would still recommend it to any Mystery fans.RATING FACTORS:Ease of Reading: 4 StarsWriting Style: 4 StarsCharacters and Character Development: 4 StarsPlot Structure and Development: 3 StarsLevel of Captivation: 4 StarsOriginality: 4 Stars
