https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/535494.How_Should_We_Then_Live_The_Rise_and_Decline_of_Western_Thought_and_Culture
How Should We Then Live is a discussion of how philosophy, art, and music have changed throughout history, and what these changes say about the human race and where we are headed.This book reads like an art history class.
Religious or not, one must admit that Dr. Schaeffer is as scholarly a theologian as one might find. This book is worth reading as much (perhaps more) for its survey of Western Culture as for its Christian ethic.
SECOND READING: 1.2014Though they were produced during a different time, without a great deal of cash[ I assume], Shaeffer's 12 episode video collection, by the same name as the book, is on youtube.
Will the silent majority help?...The majority are left with only their two poor values of personal peace and affluence...With such values, will men stand for their liberties?
This is a prophetic book. Schaeffer saw the decline of western civilization over two decades ago, and foresaw the kind of economic collapse we are now witnessing. This is an important book for all Christians to read, and even more important for non-Christians. Schaeffer evaluates the big philosophical arguments presented throughout history, demonstrates that the humanist ideals always lead to nihilism and moral degeneracy, bankrupting the value of the human being.Read this book--it is the foundation of the modern Christian movement's efforts to forestall the coming totalitarianism and inevitable destruction it will bring.
This is a remarkable book: incisive, illuminating, and prophetic.
I'm still working through some of this book, but I have absolutely loved what Schaeffer has to say, especially in regards to the dangers of a society that is primarily concerned with personal peace and affluence.
When I speak with young people today about their hopes and dreams, and about their definition of success, they nearly always communicate this idea of "comfort"--of personal peace and affluence.
People were abused for the sake of the accumulation of wealth.
Schaeffer criticized the wealthy for not using their wealth compassionately.
Schaeffer transformed my understanding of history, especially the history of philosophical thought, and really enabled me to make sense of so many things that had been gnawing at me for years—ever since I was introduced to the likes of Nietzsche in an Introduction to Philosophy class at a state university.
Additionally, his method of discussing developments in the arts right alongside of the philosophical transformations was an approach to history which really struck a chord with me.
One thing I will always remember is that I was in the middle of reading this book for the first time on Sept.
If you are agnostic, atheistic, Christian, or existential in your beliefs you need to read this book.
It does not matter that it's(this book's)author is Christian because he very fairly gives thought to each world-view and the ideas behind them.
Any intellectual and open-minded person will give this book a try.
This author makes a compelling argument for Christianity.
Whether in the end you believe it or not you still can say that you were open enough to read this book.
He does not insult your intelligence by ramming the Bible down peoples throats, so please read for it is indeed interesting even if I do not agree with all his thoughts and ideas.
Schaeffer traces the decline of culture and thought that has occured within Christianity.
Of praticular interest to me was his emphasis on the decline of art in culture and how it evolved from a God honoring tradition to post-modernism confusion.
Schaeffer also breaks down for us the way in which a decline in Science, and the philosophy of Science led man to believe that he was supreme and autonomous.
Ours is now a world in Post-Modernism and it is our duty now more than ever to stand up to the philosophy of the age.
In a sense, I could see Schaeffer as prophetic or ahead of his time as in this day an age of the new Atheist "Brights" and modern/post-modern scholarship seeking it's foothold in czar posts and public policy in a condescending manner where any type of moral or religious views are lesser thoughts of the public square.
I remember when I read this book in like 2003-2004 the last few chapters gave me a chill of both Schaeffer's lucid thoughts and the warning of things to possibly come.
Schaeffer's book although dated is still relevant for today and a great way of getting the thought and feel for his time.
Shows the progress of thought and how the vehicles of art, music, drama, writing, media, film have carried human ideas/worldviews to the culture and how the culture has been affected by them.
Shows how the Biblical worldview is the only one that can provide freedom without chaos and give value and meaning to every part of life and the world.
Ideas and influences are everywhere which is why it is important to examine art, book/news articles, films, to discover the worldview they are trying to portray and whether or not it is one that can stand.

Francis Schaeffer captures a great summary/outline of this book when he quotes his son saying of humanism: "Humanism has changed the Twenty-third Psalm: They began - I am my shepherd.
Finally - Nothing is my shepherd." (pg 226).In this great work, Schaeffer illustrates this quote by taking the reader through history (starting from Ancient Rome up to the modern times) showing the vast difference between a society that is built on a Christian worldview and a society that is not.
It seems that if any reader wishes to gain anything from reading the book by itself, he must first and foremost have a thorough knowledge of history (as well as art and music).
Evangelical missionary, philosopher, and author Francis Schaeffer was a leading figure in the resurgence of evangelicalism during the 1960s and 1970s, Schaeffer authored more than twenty books, including The God Who Is There, Escape from Reason, He Is There and He Is Not Silent, and Back to Freedom and Dignity.
He and his wife, Edith, founded L’Abri Fellowship international study and discipleship centers.Schaeffer’s magnum opus, How Should We Then Live?: The Rise and Decline of Western Thought and Culture, was an analysis of the key events in Western history from the founding of the church and the fall of Rome to the 20th century.
An analysis of Schaeffer’s arguments in How Should We Then Live?
Interesting Amazon review/discussion here (re: Schaeffer's understanding of Aquinas). Some have criticized Schaeffer because of his co-option by the Religious Right. Schaeffer did appreciate Rushdoony's work, but disagreed with Rushdooney on eschatology and law. Wikipedia has more information on the book and film series.Videos available on YouTube:Episode 1: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z0Hr0...Episode 2: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dglPC...Episode 3: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y4nP_...Episode 4: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_X7Wk...Episode 5: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H9AE-...Episode 6: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tM4xO...Episode 7: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=atSWv...Episode 8: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vEVD1...Episode 9: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T2VJk...Episode 10: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3IRuB...
With man as the "measure of all things," culture takes for granted the moral directives given by God, the fact that scientific discovery by Europeans was possible due to the belief in reasonable God as revealed in scripture.
Schaeffer is also prophetic in that he points out the contemporary western nations value two things: personal peace and affluence.
These are not Christian values and people have been shown to give up personal liberties to gain these and live moral dissolute lives because honoring God is incompatible with a greed-centered lifestyle.
I'll definitely be looking up more of Schaeffer's books in the future.I love finding books like this that analyze the philosophy behind current and past cultures.
You have to realize that this book was published in 1975, with the Iron Curtain and the Cold War as ever-present realities of the time, so I'll give him a little slack.
I wish Schaeffer were still around to update this book; I'd love to see him take into account modern technologies.
Chapters that I found the most impactful are 7, 8, and 9.
What an incredible synopsis of the rise and fall of Western thought and culture! The cycles we as humans have gone through to get to the point we are at now are shocking yet at the same time predictable. The responsibility of influencing our culture with God's divine revelation is overwhelming! Great time line in the back. Every Senior in High School should read this before going to college.
One of the most succinctly written, flawlessly argued, and persuasively brilliant works of nonfiction I’ve ever read.
Although marketed as somewhat of a super-condensed history of Western culture (and a very good one at that, considering I read this for a Western Cultural History class), the book is really more of a long essay.
Highly recommended as a passionate plea and manifesto to live the good and moral life to better our communities and our world, free of despair and full of truth, in addition to a wonderful and concise summary of Western thought and the crucial role that Christianity plays in it.
Books on church history, histories of Europe in the Middle Ages would be helpful as prerequisites, as well as overviews of philosophy, before reading Schaeffer's work.This book is a fairly brief summary of the development of Western culture through its art and architecture, as well as a defense of the Christian world view's role in preserving culture and promoting principles of liberty.
But he points out that it was Christians like William Wilberforce who were instrumental in ending chattel slavery.The power of this book comes in Schaeffer's examination of the logical conclusions of humanism and determinism and how earlier scholars like Newton and Da Vinci rejected determinism because they read to anti-biblical conclusion.
Muito bom.
is a crash review of western philosophy and culture told at breakneck speed to support the author's thesis that the intellectual, social and economic stability of the western world is in peril of its own making.
In it, Schaeffer proposed that the western world is being damaged by our rejection of epistemological universals in favor of relativism -- that people have given up caring IF there is a right or wrong, IF there is truth or justice.
As modern thinkers, politicians and pundits abandon the use of reason to measure the world in favor of a permissive relativism people will still look for sources of authority.
To some extent, this book covers the same ground as Jacques Barzun's "From Dawn to Decadence," only Schaeffer's book is written from a Christian perspective and it's not tedious.
One may discuss if planned collusion exists at times, but to be looking only for the possibility of a clandestine plot opens the way for failing to see a much greater danger: that many of those who are in the most prominent places of influence and many of those who decide what is news do have the common, modern, humanist world view ..."And not all the media need to be involved in order for manipulation to be effective.
I highly recommend it to everyone, especially young people who are about to go out into the world and be inevitably educated with the prevalent secularism by the anti-Christian Intelligentsia.Schaeffer wove through the history of western thought in the book and its influence in the culture, art, science, literature, music, film, and even church life and theology.
We have already seen indications of how people give up liberties when they are faced with the threat of terrorism.”Faced with the dim outlook of our culture and humanity, we are left to ask the book’s title, “How Should We Then Live?” Schaeffer answered this by encouraging his readers to go back to the truth of God’s Word and use its absolute truths as the foundation of our life.
Though I have read many book on the philosophical and ideological history of the West, Schaeffer's work is unique because he is the first author (I have encountered) who bothers to trace a path that includes art and how every era's art-forms betrayed the prevailing ideologies of the time.The book tracks down the evolution of Western thought in an attempt to show that each shift was in man's quest for a better way to understand and manage himself and his environment.
We read this book immediately upon finishing our R.C. Sproul study on the history of philosophy ("The Consequences of Ideas"), which made reading Schaeffer much easier to follow.
Schaeffer points out how humanism, in which the only absolutes seem to be peace and personal prosperity, can set a nation up to embrace an authoritarian, manipulative form of government.
Earlier in the book, he had made the point that people are extremely consistent to the presuppositions that they hold, whether they are aware that they hold them or not.
He ends by urging believers to constantly evaluate their presuppositions, insuring that they do indeed line up with the absolutes found in the Word of God.
In some ways this isn't a fair review.
It isn't fair because I simply skimmed through the book (how I came to do that is a story for another time).
The problem is that most of his understanding of what he has approached is wrong.His analysis is also reductive.
He seems to see all of human history as some sort of battle between placing God at the center of our worldview, or putting Man there.The problem with this is that's it's horribly reductive.
However, Schaeffer makes a brilliant point about how philosophical schools of thought trickle down through the visual art, music, culture, and finally the church.
The main value in this book is that it is a call to take every thought captive to Christ and His Word.
Secondly, that the church has a responsibility to speak out against untruth (which assumes that Christians are adequately versed in modern philosophy and its fallacies).
The main thing that I took away from it is that I need to not just know popular culture, but be a student of history in understanding modern philosophy (postmodernism) and what the "consequence of ideas" ultimately is.
This is indeed an incredible book, especially for those readers who are interested in the heritage of the the west; from its history, art, and schools of thought.
This book is a great starting point in digging for more, in understanding more about who God is and why culture is constantly shaped by who He is.
After being fed only humanistic views on the development of the west Shaeffer offered my mind new perspectives which gave me a desire to continue to understand more fully how culture is in defiance or submission to God, and what that means for me as a modern Christian in 21c.
I'm actually done.
The rest of the pages are the index.
I'm too tired to write much now but I'll start.
The world view you act upon provides the support for the world system you live under.
Schaeffer starts with paganism and shows how Christianity changed it, then how each successive world view changed the way we lived right up to the present day dominance of humanism that can't come up with a reason for living and must resort to force to maintain order because there is no Christian consensus moderating the behavior of people from within.
