https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/178599.Arsenic_and_Old_Lace
Of the 15 or so I've read, I do believe ARSENIC AND OLD LACE has taken over first place on my favorites list.The old Brewster ladies are really a hoot!
Home is Brooklyn and Martha and Abby are set in their ways with their cadaverous routines, but just as sweet as can be (hehehe) as they welcome prospective lodgers in for a glass of their own special blend of elderberry wine.Nephew Teddy (Roosevelt that is) resides in the Brewster home too CHARGING around reeking havoc blowing his bugle as he plans attacks on the enemy often retreating down (the cellar) to Panama to dig locks for the canal.
(hehehe)If you have a couple spare hours or need a break from a chunkster you're reading or just need a few laughs, I highly recommend ARSENIC AND OLD LACE!
Who doesn't love Arsenic and Old Lace? The classic black-and-white black comedy film is one of the strangest and funniest, and this book gives readers the whole story in a play format so that they can experience it away from the big screen as well.
Basic plot: two little old ladies while away their golden years by taking care of their nephew Teddy and actively pursuing their charity work.
Never mind that Teddy thinks he's Teddy Roosevelt and their charity work consists of poisoning little old men.This is one of the most wonderful bits of dark humor I've ever read.
The story is still funny to me, even after multiple readings.
The inside jokes within the play for theatre people (Mortimer has some great lines, as he's supposed to be a theatre critic) are hysterical.
This play reminds us that our grandparents were young once, too, and were people we actually CAN relate to.
So I thought this movie was just great but the play is EVEN BETTER.
Honestly, this is one of the most entertaining and fantastic stories I've ever had the chance to read/see.
I wish I could've seen the original theatre version since I'm sure Boris Karloff as Jonathan was nothing short of perfect.Honestly, plays are, like, my favorite thing in the world.
They are just so easy to read and so, so wonderful.
This is definitely one of my favorites.
I only wish I could find a copy to buy so I can read it again and again.
I loved the movie, and have seen it several times. It actually reads like the book might have been released afterwards. So, as a reader, it's disappointing. It's funny, but one of the few that the movie is better.
Das war damals wohl so üblich, vermute ich.Ich war umso überraschter, dass das Stück gelesen, deutlich besser ist als der Film.
Wahrscheinlich setzt der Film einfach deutlich mehr auf visuelle Hinweise, die ich meist schlechter wahrnehme.Die Dialoge sind witzig, die Handlung schwarzhumorig und sarkastisch.
Sayers werden böse durch den Kakao gezogen mit diesen beiden, netten, alten Mörderinnen und ihrem „Wettstreit“ mit ihrem Neffen, der 12:12 endet.Das Krimigenre bekommt in diesem Stück böse sein Fett weg, das ist sehr unterhaltsam zu lesen.
Das ist teilweise ein wenig too much.Fazit: Erstaunlicherweise ist das Stück gelesen besser als die Verfilmung.
One of the Common Core State Standards is to look at irony and understatement. This play is a great way to acquaint students with those literary techniques. One of my classes hated the play, but the other class got really into it and began acting it out. When I would tell them we were going to stop, they would ask to read JUST ONE MORE PAGE! It was a good time. The play is cute and funny. Abby and Martha are wonderful characters.
This is such a wonderful idea for a couple of assasins to play with. They did a great job with the film also.
One of the greatest comedies ever written which spawned one of the greatest comedy movies ever made. This is the great tale of Abby and Martha Brewster, and the various problems they have with their three nephews: Teddy, Johnathon, and Mortimer. A mad cap play where nothing is as it seems. A Pulitzer Prize winner.
Very random thoughts.I enjoy the movie (probably one of my top ten faves) and I have seen the play a few times in our local small town quality productions.
However I had the opportunity to read the play this afternoon and I never notice how how messed up the two aunts were from the get go.
Was Dr. Einstein Jonathan’s only friend?
Dr. Einstein did help him escape the Insane Hospital.
Is it weird that I hope Dr. Einstein ended up with a nice life because he stood up to Jonathan when Jonathan talked about “taking care of Teddy.”Maybe I should see if there is any Arsenic and Old Lace fan fiction.
This play was very enjoyable. Its humor is dark, but that made it even more hilarious. The irony and the characters small awareness makes it that much better. It is one of the better plays that I have read and it was one of the funniest too. If you like reading plays, I recommend giving this one a read.
Divertida y corta obra de teatro. Quizás me haya ayudado haber visto la peli hace mil años. Recordaba a las dos protagonistas, y a Mortimer, y me gustaba ponerles cara e imaginarme sus gestos. Me ha gustado mucho.
He is so worried about having “Teddy Roosevelt”, a crazy brother – Jonathan and now a couple of crazy aunts that he wants to cancel his planned wedding to Elaine Harper.There is a romantic side to the comedy and Elaine Harper adds spice to the plot by stumbling upon Jonathan, the lunatic brother who comes home with another dead body to add to the twelve already lying around the house.Mortimer is trying his best to protect Elaine from all the madness and killing that is going around, but he is only making things worse for their relationship by asking his loved one to leave the house.-	Get out!
A charming and tasteful little play. Unfortunately, the plot gets stretched out too thin. Not enough content to last as long as it does. By the end, its lost a lot of its original gusto. But besides that, it's pretty entertaining and sometimes funny.
This is a play. An awesome play. I have no idea when I read this, but I remember it's still good readin' even though it's supposed to be acted out. I shan't destroy the awesome plot for you, but even if I did you'd still be able to experience the awesome. And I think I've seen parts of the movie....I'm not sure though. Yay!
The events in this play are hilarious and appalling at the same time. If you've never thought two old ladies were capable of murder, then apparently you've never experienced this play. Kick back with a cup of coffee or tea, never the wine, and enjoy.
I played Teddy Brewster in Macalaster College in Fall 1983, the last time I ever acted in public! Big fun.
One of my favorite plays of all time - funny, just a little creepy and still fun even many years after it was written.
Delightfully entertaining:)
The book is more enjoyable than the movie!
Very funny! I can't wait to see the movie now.
Bettie's Books
like if kids these days watched this without learning about it in school probably would laugh because they wouldn't understand the humor.
For the time period back then that kind of humor was hilarious with the aunts killing a bunch of old men and think the old men are in hell because they are all alone and depressed with no family left and all that.
when i watched it i laughed because i understood the humor from learning about it in school.
I would recommend this to anyone who understands this kind of dark humor.
In my class we were assigned to read/act out the play Arsenic and old lace.
At first I didn't really like the play at all, but when Jonathan was first introduced I actually wanted to finally read my lines assigned to me in class.
Every second I was metaphorically on the edge of my seat when Mortimer was explaining a play to Einstein and Jonathan was slowly coming up behind Mortimer and going for the curtain cord to tie him up.
I hope my small review makes you want to try and read this extraordinary piece of writing by Joseph Kesselring.
Es una comedia negra de enredos, que acontece en una sola noche. Nos encontramos con ancianas que asesinan a hombres que se encuentran solos; un sobrino que se cree que es Teddy Roosevelt; otro que está en búsqueda y captura por asesinato; un tercer sobrino, más normal, que se acaba de prometer con la hija de la vecina; un policía que quiere ser escritor, otro que está a punto de jubilarse.... y, sobre todo, muchos cadáveres.Aunque en algunos momentos los diálogos son un poco flojos, es muy divertida.
Divertida, con un movimiento de personajes llamativo, con momentos que sacan una carcajada y de cierta tensión humorística. El final me ha resultado un poco precipitado y surrealista en exceso. Uno de los interrogantes más importantes de la trama no parece que se resuelva de forma clara. La edición tenía algunos fallos de ortotipografía y gramaticales. Para pasar el rato está bien. Creo que me gustaría verla representada.
this was a funny book with a dark humor comedy sense. The actors made the characters funny and dumb at sometimes and its a really really funny play. I didnt really understand all the concept by reading the play, but watching it, i understood it and loved it. i laughed so much. espicially about the Boris Karloff part and how everyone thinks that the grandmothers are innocent, and how Teddy thinks that he is Teddy Roosevelt and thinks the cellar is the panama canal.
una gran obra de teatro. Si has visto la película clásica de Capra te hará recordarla y lo pasarás muy bien leyendo la obra. Y si no, te animo a descubrir una gran obra de teatro con grandes dosis de humor.Más sobre mi opinión en la reseña del bloghttps://almalectora.blogspot.com/2018...
A very wonderful plot with cleverly delineated characters. The author has a great talent mixing suspense with comedy, creating an amazing comic thriller. One of the most astonishing aspects of the play is the coolness and simplicity with which the two aunts think and behave. These women are very chilling and very funny at the same time.
I'd highly recommend this for a beginning director or crew. Fall-off-a-log-easy-to-do scene changes, one set, and a small cast to handle. Besides that, it's friggin' hilarious. "Old Lace" has aged well!
