https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11548.Mine
Since it was a Robert McCammon, it was written well, and the story leads the reader through a bizarre mix of betrayal, insanity, murder and kidnapping.
The story is split into two viewpoints - an unstable woman consumed with the past clashes with a woman whose world has been shaken by personal betrayal and a new baby."Mary the Terror" isn't likeable but she's realistically written.
The Hippie lead was a cultish figure that bent the lives of those already unstable and desperate.The theme was intriguing, the characters well developed, but kidnapping stories aren't my bag.
I read this book years ago and it enters my thoughts, unbidden, to this day. McCammon takes you into the mind of a psychopath unlike any you have ever encountered. You will be glued to the pages until the very end. It's just another masterpiece by a wonderful but underrated author. Anything by this man is amazing!
I've read most of McCammon's books published in the 80's and early 90's, and this one was so damn good it gives Swan Song a run for it's money. This book was so intracately plotted, detailed, carefully drawn, that I forgot I was reading. It was as if the author was speaking the story straight into my brain. I highly recommend this thriller (with touches of horror throughout) to anyone who loves McCammon, and those who love a good thriller written by one of the masters. Brilliant! Thanks to Jon Recluse for finally convincing me to read it.
He told us about a book, Stephen King-ish that he really didn't think he'd like, this story about a woman waking up to a baby's crying, how she tried to comfort it and such, and finally losing her cool and turning on the stove, and :bahgawd: she was gonna teach it to behave, and then burning its face off and throwing it against the wall.
And you're looking at the book and thinking you've still got over a hundred pages to go wtf?!?
For Mary Terror, former member of a radical student group, moving on is a little more difficult.
She is marking time until she can be reunited with her love and present him with ‘their’ baby.
Mary is crazy, there is no baby - until she snatches one from the hospital.
Having scored a few too many hits of acid back in the day (as well as present day), she wafts in and out of a perpetual purple haze.
I would not consider it to be quite as high caliber as BOY'S LIFE, but it is crazy good.
This is a horrifying book.
First, imagine your child stolen from a hospital.
Then imagine your child stolen by a homicidal madman.
The book starts off with a bang.
Violence against children upsets me so the first time I saw Mary with her "baby" my stomach knotted.The action was fast and relentless leading to me reading late into the night.
The super human nature of the characters and the at times laxity in medical accuracy could have brought down my rating of this book but the shear intensity kept my attention and the interest high.
With one being a savage clinging on to a world of fantasy and hallucination and the other fighting for her own son - its a dirty savage race that can result anything!Last year I read Robert McCammon's Swan Song which left me with such an impact that even now whenever I'm reminded of it, I always drift in thoughts for a jiffy.
Whereas Robert McCammon explores human nature and psychology to its limits in such dirty, filthy ways that even though I flinch while reading it, deep inside a little voice shamefully admits that in those situations I also might do quite the same.
From start to finish this was fast paced, for a nearly 500 page book it kept my attention the whole way through. I think I've found an author I'm going to like.
What a great, fast paced, rush of horror and suspense! This book was non-stop, with never a dull moment or a boring page.For all you Mothers out there, what lengths would you go to if your 2 day old new born was stolen from you at the hospital by a maniacal, amazon of a woman named Mary Terror. Read this to find out the mother, Laura's, story...and what she did about it.Of all the McCammon's I've read, this had an old school Dean Koontz vibe, which isn't a bad thing here. McCammon fans would enjoy this.4 stars
This book was amazing! Another winner from Mr. McCammon! Tense from the first page and only rockets forward from there. I don’t think I’ve ever been this stressed reading a book, and I mean that in the best possible way! It’s a shame Mr. McCammon’s books are so hard to find in print. This guy should be a household name.
Mary Terrell, or Mary Terror, makes for a truly frightening villain, but one who feels chillingly possible in her psychotic state of mind.
Mary Terror in all of her mad glory is a much scarier villain than any of his supernatural beasts.Mary’s psychotic state is well-balanced by Laura, the baby’s mother.
It now ranks among my favorites of McCammon’s novels.The only downside that does slow the pacing a bit lies with the shifts in perspective.
With a predominantly female cast of characters, “she” is thrown around quite a bit, and though in the beginning Mary and Laura dominate separate chapters, as their stories converge the back-and-forth between them can become a bit confused.
What do you call a psychopathic still living the dream of her radical days of the '60's? An amazon of a woman named Mary Terror. McCammon has created one of the most believable human monsters, who really believes after kidnapping a newborn, that is is her baby. Then add Laura, the new mother, who finds out what a mother will do to protect their child, in this case, trying to get him back, from Mary before she totally snaps. This is a non-stop roller coaster of action and suspense, in this well written thriller.
The supposed apparitions of Morrison and Jack don't count because Mary is a psycho crazed burned-out acid-fueled hippie and McCammon never implies they are supernatural.
As good as this novel is, I hate it being advertised to me as a "horror" novel.
The Bleeding Season is a horror novel.And before you get all technical, zombies are supernatural, they don't occur under our natural laws (at least they never have up until now).A good suspenseful terror novel.
I always saw hippies as some of the most selfish people that ever lived; plus I hated the fashion and most of the music.
Never before have I hated a character as much as I hated Mary Terror; she is a drug-addicted, delusional, sadistic, psychopathic, evil monster with no redeeming qualities whatsoever, and whenever McCammon described her cradling poor Laura Clayborne's stolen baby in her gigantic arms, I became more and more thankful that she is not, and will never be, a real human being.
Come to think of it, there was not a single point in this text (as there has been in most horror novels I've read) where I thought, "Why is she doing that?" or, "Come on!
Meh.This story may have had more of an impact when it first came out but after so many years all the stuff about '60s radicals just doesn't translate well in this millenium.Also, the story was soooo incredibly bloated. Entire chapters could have been removed and the story would have been improved by making it move along faster. I've really like some of McCammon's recent books but his earlier stuff just doesn't work for me.
4.5 another good read by this author, can't wait to read some more!
Not just a thriller but also a crazy adventure and a battle between two women for a child, Mine is as entertaining as it is creepy.
After thirty minutes of thought I picked it back up and couldn't put it down.I got so involved with this book, I had to remind myself to breathe and tell myself it's only a book.
I think part of the draw of this story is that you know it could happen.
I just wanted to know what was going to happen next.My advice, if you like drama, suspense, and can deal with the violence, then read this book.
That is how much I recommend it.I can't wait to read another book by Mr. McCammon.
This book, as all McCammon tomes, is exceptionally well crafted and written.
The beginning is so good, with details of Mary terror, Storm Front, and Laura’s marriage – I was absolutely hooked.
Mary Terror may be one of the most interesting villains in literature.
Unless McCammon was going to take a big risk with a plot twist, that was the only way it could go.
How we got there was fun, but we were always going to get there, and that just isn’t as compelling.So, we have a story full of fantastic characters that exist in a plot that can’t sustain them for the entire ride.
Really enjoyed this one, as always, Mccammon delivers a fantastic story.
The character that McCammon creates in this novel is terrifying. Mary is disturbing and I had to put the book down a couple of times to get away from her. Mary Terror is a character that I won't soon forget. The subject matter in this book is disturbing as well so this book may not be for everyone but if you like a dark and disconcerting tale then you should try it. There were a few things toward the end that stretched the limits of credibility but I can forgive that since it was so well written.
There was a point where I really thought I wasn't going to like this novel.
Overall, there were points where I thought, Damn, I'd love to see what King would have done with this..
I don't think it was ever by design, but still it happened frequently.This, to me, is the type of story King excels at.
She was convincing early on, but I grew a bit weary of the Jim-Morrison-is-God and the mind-fuck state comments all the time.But, in the second half of the novel, when the chase is really on, it's really on, and McCammon's writing has never been sharper.
My first McCammon book in years, this novel has me re-thinking my opinion of the author.
My favorite character is the antagonist, "Mary Terror," who belonged to a radical and violent anti-government faction in the 1960s known as the Storm Front.
Years later, and still among the FBI's most wanted, Storm Front survivors are called to a secret gathering, and Mary starts making big plans.
It takes a little while to build up steam and a few of the turns in plot and characters didn't quite ring true but all in all it was a good read.
This book overall is about what Laura does to save her newborn David from a woman who stole him from the hospital.
Very creepy in parts and overall a good on the edge of your seat story.
One instance is all the things that David a newborn goes through but gets hurt a tiny bit once!?
Overall tho I really did enjoy the story tho, the first half was really, really good and I will be looking up more of the authors work as this is the first book I have read of McCammon's.
At its core, the book is about a mother’s love for her child and the lengths parents will go for the ones they love.
This is the center of all the tension throughout the book.
It is a classic cat-and-mouse game that is written with sniper-like precision.McCammon writes Mary Terror with frightening realism.
McCammon puts forth the present day Mary Terror without bias- allowing the reader to discover how far-reaching her madness truly is.
These descriptions are contrasted beautifully with flashbacks of Mary with the group known as The Storm Front Brigade.
Te sales Robert, te sales...No había leído un libro de drama/acción/terror en que los personajes principales fueran mujeres...y que mujeres, desde Laura, que pasa de ser la esposa bobita a una fuerza de la naturaleza, Bedelia, como una ex terrorista de armas tomar y Mary...oh Mary, que gran personaje, un villano de temer, un villano que haria pasar pesadillas al Joker.Pd: Un par de las mejores persecuciones automovilisticas desde CHRISTINE.
I have been a huge McCammon fan for years. But I have to be honest when I say that I finished reading this book with a sense of "It could have been better if . . ." This is a very good psychological terror ride but the author held back a bit. I always had a feeling that a door was slightly closed on me. I felt toyed with by the author. I have never felt that with a MCCammon book.
Could not put this book down! Loved it!
Read this one twice so far. It's one of my favorite MCammon books.
Unfortunately the big chase where Laura gets so close to her prize before Mary gets away keeps repeating itself over and over and over and gets tiresome by the end.It’s written well cuz it’s McCammon but it’s way too long.
500 pages could be 300 pages and then perhaps I’d have enjoyed this more.Had any other author (besides King) written this book I would be rounding this review up to 4 stars but I hold McCammon’s novels up to a higher standard and plan on reading Ushers Passing next hoping it surpasses my Mine experience.
