https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45169.Step_on_a_Crack
James Patterson writes good books and he writes very good books and this is one of the latter.
I really enjoyed meeting Michael Bennett and his large family and was very happy indeed to find that this is the first in quite a long series!
Many people criticise the author for his short chapters but I find that they bring a sense of urgency to the book which is quite in keeping with the genre.
I also feel that short, choppy chapters make reading easy and speedy.
Very enjoyable indeed and I will be working my way through the the whole series in due course?
I normally don't like anything by James Patterson. He's one of those who seem to write more for finance and fame than innovation and imagination. That being said, Step On A Crack is very likable and intriguing, with a multitude of good characters.
Loved it! So glad to have started this series. The story was so intriguing. I couldn't not have been more thrilled with the opening book to this series. I loved the characters, the plots were entertaining, and the emotional ramifications of Michael and Maeve were beautifully devastating. My quick and simple overall: stayed up until after 3 am to finish it in one sitting because it was so good!
James Patterson introduces us to a new character with STEP ON A CRACK, NYPD Homicide Detective Michael Bennett.
I have to say that the actual meat of the story, the hijacking of St. Patrick's church and its funeral-attending creme de la creme of society, was an intriguing storyline.
What weighed the story down, at least for me, was that fact that Michael Bennett wasn't a character I could easily relate to.
It's not Maeve's seemingly long-lost cousin, Mary Catherine, who shows up out of the blue to serve as the couple's au pair.
This was a fast moving crime thriller with a tender backstory.
A large group of VIP's are taken hostage during the funeral of an ex president's wife.
Mike is a police negotiator who's wife is seriously ill and in the hospital with Cancer.
Each of the hostages are terrorized into revealing all of their financial information.
Millions are to be transferred to an account that can't be followed, but Mike's big question is, why they think there is any possibility of escape.
An interesting premiss with very relatable characters and solid, smart writing.
Both of their voices were perfect for the characters.
Interior da Catedral de St. Patrick (Nova Iorque)O Natal está próximo.Mike Bennett é um detective da polícia de Nova Iorque que tem a sua amada mulher Maeve num hospital a lutar contra um cancro em fase terminal.Bennett tem que cuidar dos seus dez filhos adoptivos e de Socky "uma gata branca e cinzenta, arisca que Maeve recolhera do caixote do lixo ao lado do nosso prédio na Avenida West End. A minha mulher tinha obviamente um fraquinho por desgraçados e vadios.
And at the same time his wife loses her battle with a deadly disease, leaving him with all the children and a high-profile case.
It seems to me that the strain of producing so many books a year is causing Mr. Patterson to be lazy in his work.
Simply churning out books for profit, rather than genuine storytelling.I’ve not given up on James Patterson though, as I have been told his Experiment novels are much better than this crime dramas.
Perhaps I will have better luck there, but I’m sure this is the last of his murder mysteries I will read.
The answer was deemed irrelevant so not let's dwell on it.
In fact best not to dwell on anything too long, after all the author didn't.
Following a standard cops and kidnappers escapade, there is an impossible escape scene in Chapter 97, which is described in 600 words.
In the next chapter "it turned out" (yes those exact words were used) that two of the baddies had done something else implausible.
And finally, just when I thought that things couldn't be explained in a more dismissive manner, in Chapter 116 we learn that "we still needed to figure out exactly how they stored [something..] in the [somewhere..], not that it really mattered." Yes, once again those were the exact words: not that it really mattered.
Well, once again another James Patterson book, but not belonging to any series. Amazing how a detective in downtown NYC can still solve a major mystery involving a hostage situation over Christmas, with a dying wife and 10 kids can hold it together. I'd like to get some advice from this character, since I feel like I can barely handle my stay at home life with four kids.....
Unfortunately for me I have read some of these out of order and wish I had read this one first as it covers Michaels wife and her death, which features strongly emotionally in the future books, and the introduction of Mary Catherine.
I do find the many children rather irritating, but this story is very strong, sometimes violent but with a good plot and a twist I didn't see coming.
I find the quick paced, short chapters easy to read and you end up flying through the the story.
I do prefer the Alex Cross series and the standalone thrillers written with co writers but I will continue to read this series and would highly recommend this book.
Epic fail.
The best thing that could be said about this book is that it could serve as an invaluable tool for writing teachers demonstrating to their students hot NOT to write a novel.
It breaks every rule for good writing imaginable; not to mention that everything about Step on a Crack is shallow and unconvincing.
The plot.
The characters.
The drama.
The action.
How sad that Patterson gets paid by the boatload to pen such dreck.
Better to stick with Patterson's previous Ledwidge collaboration, The Quickie, which actually gets a few things right and is reasonably entertaining to boot.
The first of the series pertaining to top Nypd detective Michael Bennett.
I had read Tick Tock prior to this and found out whilst reading the inner book cover that it was the latest in a series featuring Bennett.
Top Nypd detective Michael Bennett is introduced here along with his ailing wife Maeve who is hospitalized due to termanal cancer and their 10 adopted children from various nationalities.
A great page turner that i accomplished in no less then 3 days as i usually do with all of Patterson's reads.
Ικανοποιητικό θρίλερ με θέμα μια ομηρία, αλλά τίποτα περισσότερο. Στα θετικά το ότι οι δράστες δεν ήταν μουσουλμάνοι υποκινούμενοι από Ρώσους όπως συμβαίνει συνήθως σε τέτοιου είδους μυθιστορήματα γραμμένα μετά το 2001. Στα αρνητικά, δεν λείπει κανένα άλλο από τα κλισέ του είδους.
Great storyline. Great characters. Great book. This is, by far, my favorite James Patterson series. That is all.
This is James Patterson's and Michael Ledwidge's first book in the Michael Bennett Series.
This is a very touching book, and a tough one as the case he is working on is a very hard one, and his wife Maeve is dying of cancer.
SNIFF SNIFF.So as Bennett is pursuing his most diabolical criminal ever to terrify New York City.
Despite the escalating danger, Michael faces an even more terrifying crises at home.I think this book touched me extra hard, as Maeve dies, and Mike and their 10 kids, his grandfather Shamus, and their new oppare (sp) Mary Catherine from Ireland, I also put my cat down a couple days ago.
What a book, never in a million years the kidnappers were who they were. It also had me in tears on the sad side hope Mike gets done good luck in the books.
This was pretty far fetched...
I usually like Patterson's books a lot, and I am not going to say this wasn't entertaining.
However, for the same New York homicide cop to do everything for such a high profile case didn't seem remotely plausible.
He did all the hostage negotiations, he was in the group that tried to break in and stop the kidnapping, he was the one to run out and see the bodies when the kidnappers threw them out of the church, he was in the helicopter following the get away cars, and he was the one in the water helping save the victims?
This story was heart wrenching because Detective Bennett had a major personal life crisis going on at home but had to deal with a hostage situation at his job.
At home he’s the father of 10 kids and a loving husband and let’s not forget his Irish brogue grandfather, Shamus.The plot thickens each time you turn the page.
The cynical but witty communication between Detective Bennett and the kidnapper is composed excellently.
The skills to show him as a tough cop as well as a loving husband and father was welll scripted.
Meet Michael Bennett; father to 10, husband to a dying wife, hostage negotiator, and son to an ever smart-mouth Irish man.The story: Definitely worth reading if you like Patterson's way of telling a story.It was hard at first for me to get into Step on a Crack since I've been on an Alex Cross kick for a while now.
At one point earlier in the story Michael even said there had to be someone on the outside.
The story line was quite different in this book than the others of his I've read.
I found that Patterson put a original twist on the played out bad guy/cops hostage negotiation story.
By now we are all well versed in hostage negotiations via books and movies.
Make contact with bad guy, try to calm him down, establish good rapport, try to get them to release some hostages in good faith, blah blah blah.
Despite the cliche hostage foundation for this story, Patterson was able to make it original and put some good twists.
Bom... O James Petterson nao escreve a maioria dos livros que publica mas os escritores que o acompanham sao de fato mto bons.Gostei muito desta leitura apesar do enredo ser altamente inverossímil: um detective super atarefado com 10 filhos adoptivos, em vias de ficar sozinho devido à doença terminal da mulher, é chamado na vespera de natal para resolver um sequestro?...Capitulos curtos, ritmo intenso, é dificil parar de ler... e depois um final abrupto e um cabeçilha inesperado.4.5*
Ten Kids, Crissy-3, Shawna-4, Trent & Flona-4, Bridget-7, Eddie-8, Ricky-9, Jane-10, Brian-11, Juliana-12. I identify with Micahel Bennett in that I have 11 children, 8 are adopted. And like him, we have mixed races. Hispanic, Native American & African American, along with Caucasian. With the former First Lady dead, and now at her funeral, the most powerful people in the world are held, hostage. Bennett must deal with the ongoing New York crisis, along with the death of his wife.I really enjoyed this book. Relating on the family level. This I can say, "I've found a new series."
A good start for a new James Patterson series.
I really liked that in this Patterson novel there is only 1 major investigation.
I believe that Patterson likes quantity over quality.
A number of his recent books have so many different plots shoved into them that it's hard to keep track of everything and it's hard to get a good quality story.
Of course it wasn't the best novel that I read dealing with a hostage situation, but it was still enjoyable and an easy read.
I also think with this novel (and series) you need to set aside reality.
Reading Step on a Crack was a bit of a weird experience.
I can only explain this by assuming that the two distinct environments, that is to say; a) Mike Bennett’s home situation and b) the hostage-taking were clearly separately written by the co-authors.
That’s the only reason I can explain my conflicting feelings about this book.
Of course, the children are cute & perfect (how ideal!) – still the home scenes were enjoyable, and I felt real emotions there.As for the hostage-taking, I thought that was the true weak part of the story.
Would I like reading more in this series?
Will probably read more of this series.
Definitely better main character than Alex Cross.
The same person is the hostage negotiator, moves with the SWAT team, gets in a helicoptor, JUMPS IN THE HUDSON, investigates afterward, and still isn't the guy in charge.
Oh, and I forgot the climax, which I won't spoil for anyone--but nice that they didn't bring the SWAT team in for that, uh, duh!I hope for more family character development.
But I'll add the next one of these on my never-ending "to read" list.
Michael Bennett has ten adopted children, its Christmas, and his wife is in the hospital with terminal cancer. To add to his problems there has been a major crisis in a cathedral in Manhattan. A hostage taking at the funeral of a former first lady.Bennett is a negotiator with the police and FBI and must help to get this horrible thing under control, and still be with his wife in her final days and give his children a Christmas.An enjoyable, fast paced read.
This is by far my favorite James Patterson book so far! Micheal Bennett may be one of the most likable characters in any book I have ever read. A father of 10 adopted children and loving wife dying of cancer, Bennett must help save 34 celebrities who are being helped captive by some of the most evil people one will ever encounter. If you like mysteries and you like your heart string tug on a little bit, then you will love this book.
This is the first Bennett novel. He is negotiating a hostage situation at St. Patrick's Cathedral at the same time his wife is dying of cancer and he is single fathering ten assorted children. It is a complex and compelling story and one that will keep you up late finishing it. Excellent reading.
There was nothing wrong with the book exactly. It's just not my type of book. I am just not a fan of books (or movies) that center around a hostage/negotiator type setting. Where the majority of the book is stuck in one location. I get bored easily.
Dedektifimiz ve ailesini çok sevdim. Ağır polisiyelerden değil çabuk okunuyor akıcı bir dili var.
