https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18143905-the-opposite-of-loneliness
Imagine my shock when I realized just the opposite: Had Marina Keegan not died so tragically (and I don't mean to downplay the tragedy because, truly, it was a sad and unfortunate event), I (hope?
As the writer of the book-jacket reveals, what propelled this book into existence is one of Marina's essays "going viral" right after her untimely death, an essay that doesn't sound much different than every single high school student's graduation speech.
The unfortunate fact of the matter is that Marina's writing sounds like exactly what it is -- the product of writers workshops and a 20-year old mind.
To think that she already had a job lined up at the New Yorker with so much room left to grow in her writing makes me uncomfortable when I know so many young writers with arguably more talent struggling because they don't have the connections (or the entitlement that comes from a privileged upbringing) that Keegan did (ex: contacting Jack Hitt just to throw ideas around for one of her own stories).
I don't mean to say that privilege and talent/worthiness are mutually exclusive--the worlds of book and magazine publishing are filled with people who have both.
Essays are fun!- When Marina wrote about topics she was really confident in and had first-hand experience with her essays and stories felt so true to life and honest.- As a writer this book was really inspiring.
There were a bunch of stories that I didn't personally enjoy, but I felt that I learned a lot from this book.
how would Marina feel about these stories being published?
Marina's story is a sad one, but I think that, actually, a lot of hope and inspiration can be taken by the way she lived her life and her devotion and dedication to writing.
One of the best books i've ever read. Some of the most beautiful writing i've experienced. Some of these quotes gave me chills so bad I had to stop reading. A few of these stories lost my interest, but the ones that blew my mind made up for it. A book that deserves every award and every 5 stars in the world.
I really enjoyed the first two stories, but the rest of them really fell flat for me. I LOVED the introduction and the speech "The Opposite of Loneliness", but most of the other essays were just fine.VERY MIXED EMOTIONS ON THIS ONE.
I was drawn to this book because of the tragic backstory and also because (this is a little embarrassing) I'm trying to understand the so-called millennial generation a little better than I think I do; there are noticeable differences, many of them rooted in stereotype.Anne Fadiman, who wrote one of my favorite books ever ("The Spirit Catches You and You Fall Down"), writes a beautiful introduction here about her student, Marina Keegan, and Marina's tragic death five days after graduation and some of the reasons why Marina's admirers felt they should bring out a book of the writing she left behind from her undergrad years at Yale.The book is somewhat critic-proof, given the circumstances (as Fadiman wisely notes, she'd want to be remembered for being good, not being dead), but I did have three responses:1.
Wow these essays were beautiful. There are definitely a few I will go back to in the future and reread
This collection reads like what it is: the work of the most talented person in an undergrad writing class.
In a perfect world, this book would have never been published because Marina Keegan wouldn't have died at age 22.There were a few decent stories and essays in here--writing that showed tremendous ability and potential if they were to appear in a college workshop.
She has a lot of silly ideas that, given 5 years of life beyond her incredibly privileged upbringing and education, she would have grown out of.
I rushed through it with the occasional groan and many wistful sighs about the stories Keegan should have gotten the chance to write 10 years from now.
"We can't, we MUST not lose this sense of possibility, because in the end, it's all we have." Overall Rating: 2.7 out of 5 starsBefore the haters drink their Haterade and troll me for being an unfeeling asshole, HEAR ME OUT. First of all, think what happened to Marina Keegan is absolutely tragic. The poor woman literally had her whole life in front of her when she died in a car crash. That this happened five days after she graduated from college makes it even worse. And I think that if she had
But she came from a privileged upbringing, and had connections to the right people, which is probably why her work got published in the first place and (like Esther) enjoyed immediate and popular success.
I felt like Marina took more risks with this story, but man, there were plot holes galore in this.
If anything this is a lesson to writers to just let the words flow and to not try too hard to sound literary and all that.Anyhoo, this little essay involves Marina’s first car and how it’s become a special thing to her.
It read like a short story more than an essay, which is probably why I disliked it so much.
I thought The Opposite of Loneliness was an excellent collection of fiction and non-fiction essays by Marina Keegan, a Yale student who died in a car wreck a couple days after she graduated from college.My favorite essay out of the bunch is "Against the Grain" pg 157 where she discusses her Celiac disease and the negative effect that that had on her mother.She expresses frustration with how ridiculously protective her mother became when they were finally able to figure out what was wrong.
There were a few fiction stories and a few essays that gripped me and left me wanting more, but overall they were just enjoyable to read.
Not amazing, not profound, not too much, just enjoyable.
I do think Marina was a great writer and obviously we don't know what she would have become, but these aren't as epic and profound as I was expecting them to be?
I dunno.I read bad and good things about this book before I started and I think I just fall somewhere in the middle.
It wasn't the worst, it wasn't the best, but it ewe a good read.
Some people dismissed this as a Young Adult book "that only appealed to people the same age as Marina.
I am a 52 year old housewife, and I saw many stories and essays that appealed to me and would be interesting for people my age and beyond.
The Opposite of Loneliness, when knowing the circumstances of the book is breathtaking.In some of the essays, Marina refers to how bright the future is going to be and how much she looks forward to the things she will accomplish.
This book is something she did accomplish, Marina's life is held between the covers of this book.
I don't think I could just not give this book five stars. I started reading it at work one day, and I couldn't put it down. I got attached to pretty much every story and its characters and I absolutely loved the nonfiction section as well. Overall, this is fantastic and I'd recommend it to pretty much anyone and everyone.
I do not ask these questions to mitigate the tragedy of her all-too-early passing, just to stimulate thought surrounding this book's publication overall.Those inquiries aside, I enjoyed Keegan's short stories and her essays.
While I cannot say I will remember too much from reading her work, I will recall certain thoughts and emotions, like Yale's unfortunate propensity for producing business folk, as well as one of her character's guilt over the death of her romantic fling.Overall, recommended for those searching for some quick reading material by an author with a heartbreaking backstory.
Marina's writing had so much passion and love and life behind it.
I haven't loved a book like this is a while.
I will be going back and rereading her pieces for a long time.The tragic story of Marina's death.....jesus.
My opinion of her writing as nothing to do with the fact that she is no long here; I would have still loved this if she were alive today.
There were some lines, though, that hit me in the gut, knowing that she wrote this with no knowledge of how young she was going to leave this world.
But she left behind more than a dozen essays and stories that capture that cuspy young adult feeling better than anything I’ve read before.
that highlights her unique ability to live a 22-year-old’s life but reflect upon it with the wisdom of a much older person: We’re so young.
In the title essay Marina asks if we have a word for the opposite of loneliness.
I say yes, yes we do, and it’s writers like her, writers who express what everyone else around their age is thinking, that give us that feeling, the opposite of loneliness.
Surprisingly, the collection’s short stories, deeply thoughtful and relevant, are almost better than the essays (nine of each), and certainly on par with debuts by writers a decade Keegan’s senior.
The best stories are clearly autobiographical, narrated in the first person by a college student.
Keegan was also on the way to becoming a successful essayist in the vein of David Foster Wallace and Jonathan Franzen.As her tutor Anne Fadiman insists, “Marina wouldn’t want to be remembered because she’s dead.
She would want to be remembered because she’s good.” Luckily, on the evidence of The Opposite of Loneliness, she’s damn good – and worth remembering.(See my full review at For Books’ Sake.)
I'm fine." This is the invincibility most young people think about themselves.
You understand that from the life of Marina Keegan, tragically cut short by a car accident five days after her graduation from Yale, just as much as you sense it exuding from her words in this collection of essays and stories.
These affecting pieces in "The Opposite of Loneliness" are presented with a keen clarity, and offers much to ponder over.Even with the 22 years of her existence, Keegan had managed to articulate herself with such awareness of herself and the world around her.
"Marina wouldn't want to be remembered because she's dead.
She would want to be remembered because she's good." Great, will she always be.
Like most collections of short stories/essays, some were significantly stronger than others. In general, the nonfiction > the fiction. I'll review this in my May wrap up! :)
"Do you wanna leave soon?No, I want enough time to be in love with everything...And I cry because everything is so beautiful and so short.Marina Keegan was a brilliant and beautiful young woman whose life was cut tragically short only five days after graduating from Yale.
This book collects some of her work, both fiction and nonfiction, in a way that highlights the beauty and poignancy of her spirit.I freaking dare you to read this book and not cry.
And despite the heaviness that lies on these pages due to the knowledge of her untimely death, that wasn't why I cried so hard and so much while reading this.
I realize I can be so opinionated that it may be hard to believe I approach any book with an open mind, but honestly, I am always, always, always open to being surprised, pleasantly or otherwise, and I'm always hoping that I'll enjoy what I read, even if it means all my doubts are proved wrong.
I enjoyed and was impressed by the first two short stories, "Cold Pastoral" and "Winter Break." These made me realize how few pieces of quality fiction we have about college students that are actually written by college students.
“We don’t have a word for the opposite of loneliness, but if we did, I could say that’s what I want in life.”  This is the beginning sentence from The Opposite of Loneliness, a collected work by Marina Keegan, compromised of fiction and non-fiction, and one of the most inspirational books I have ever read. Marina Keegan was a Yale-graduate that died a few days after her graduation, and was known among the university as an author, playwright, journalist, poet, and probably more. So you will some
This is the beginning sentence from The Opposite of Loneliness, a collected work by Marina Keegan, compromised of fiction and non-fiction, and one of the most inspirational books I have ever read.
So you will sometimes hear the comment: “the book is only good because people feel sad about her life and don’t want to say anything bad about it so they don’t sound like the Grinch.” Will someone say that of The Diary of Anne Frank?
"Stranded humans don't roll in with the tide - they hide in corners and the concrete houses and the plains of exotic countries we've never heard of, dying of diseases we can't pronounce."Great ideas, good writing, melancholy, humor and sometimes boredom make this 3.5 out of 5 stars.Find more of my books on Instagram
This book is now one of my favorite books of all time. The writing is impeccable. Seriously. She was a genius with words. I felt so invested in the characters' lives, even in such short stories. I felt like I knew exactly how they were feeling even in situations I could not necessarily relate to. Her essays are smart, humorous, and wickedly on point.Basically, one of the most perfect books I have read in a long time.Highly, highly recommend. 5/5
Many people have read her title essay in the Yale Daily News, which reads more like a student commencement address.It's important to view this collection for what it is.
Most writers would be horrified at being left out of that process but of course, she had no choice.The writings are divided into two sections - fiction and non-fiction.
While many of the works of fiction are a realistic capture of people she knew, probably her own experiences fictionalized with a few experiments in style, I found more to like in the non-fiction section.
4.5/5 stars(I couldn't give it a full five star rating because I loved Marina's non-fiction so much better than her fiction, and I wish I could have read more of that). We don’t have a word for the opposite of loneliness, but if we did, I could say that’s what I want in life.  A LITTLE ABOUT THE AUTHOR  Marina Evelyn Keegan was an American author, playwright, journalist, actress and poet. She is best known for her essay  The Opposite of Loneliness,  which went viral and was viewed over 1.4 milli
the opposite of loneliness really?I picked up this book today, rather impulsively and randomly, after seeing a review of it on my feed-Thank you so much, Liz. I couldn't even wait until I got home to read it, I wanted to know, what did Marina have to say?
Nothing about a girl in the prime of her youth- tipping with bold and beautiful and lingering words in her heart and on her lips-dying is okay.I cried my tear ducts out and I didn't know how to do it gracefully.
4 starsSo I read this about a year ago, and let me tell you, I absolutely fell in love with Marina. She was so full of hope and life. Her death was a tragedy and I teared up a little when I read what happened to her. Admittedly, I didn't love all of her stories, but a couple of them really stuck with me and I've found myself thinking about them several times. All in all 'The Opposite of Loneliness' is definitely worth a read.
Some in this book appealed to me more than others did, while a couple I really didn't care for (If you want to see my individual ratings for each one, check my status updates).I won't be reviewing each individual story but overall I was fairly engaged with Marina's writing.
A few years down the road as she refined her skills, I could see her being a success in the Writing field.This will sound over-said perhaps but her voices comes through wonderfully in here and if she were still around, I would have loved to meet her and just talk :)While I enjoyed her essays, her fiction was my favorite of the sections...
I knew before I started listening to this that the author of these short stories and essays had been killed in a car accident just days after graduating from Yale.
Even though I knew this, I teared up while the forward was being read.
I enjoyed the short stories more than the essays.
I think if I had read it rather than listening to audio maybe that wouldn't have happened.
All-in-all I enjoyed this and would recommend to readers who enjoy short stories and essays.
(If you want to read an excellent review of this, look up my GR friend Heidi's!)
