https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/922991.The_Island
The story line of this book is pretty good... but it is the most poorly written book I've read in awhile. She explains things - emotions, plot lines - to a level where she's beating you over the head with it and every sentence has about three adjectives too many. You'll want to finish it to find out what happens, but her writing style will drive you nuts while you do.
As a novel, The Island has come in for a fair amount of criticism, that I for one strongly disagree with. I loved it! The author captured the warmth, charm and passion of the Cretans and of the Island of Crete, and poignantly described the heartbreaking situation of a time and place that still haunts to this day.You simply must read this heartrending, brilliantly descriptive and meticulously researched piece of work, whether you are able to visit the island or not. If you do read the book, then you will surely be drawn to this intriguing and mystical place.
Nesvakidašnja knjiga, tema o kojoj ranije ništa nismo znali, a sada zahvaljujući ovoj knjizi i seriji koja je prikazivana prošle godine i mi nešto više znamo o tom periodu iz grčke istorije...Nažalost, u Srbiji knjiga nije odmah "zaživela" zbog neadekvatnih korica (koje nisu bile moj izbor, promenjene su za drugo izdanje), dok je u Hrvatskoj odmah postala hit...
Ono što je meni kao uredniku uvek najdraže jeste to da je priča o njoj kružila od usta do usta i da je zaživela na usmenu preporuku...Bila je ljuta borba da ne kažem "tuča" između tri izdavača oko ove knjige...
I had great hopes that this would be a good book.But life can be disappointing at times.
This was one of the worst written books I have read in a long time.
Chunks of unnecessarty exposition, character motivations eplained to the nth degree, dialogue avoided like...well, like it was leprosy.If you like your characters spoon fed to you, and every meaningful scene ducked (I mean, why didn't we get to see the last evening she and her husband had together?
What exactly did they say?), well, this is the book for you.The thought that people believe this is good writing makes me shudder.
There was the same sort of hype about Captain Corelli, but at least De Bernieres knows how to write.
Anna rejects her family, marries a rich man whom she doesn't love, has an affair with his first cousin (who conveniently resembles him), and gives birth to a daughter, Sofia.
Maria, the good daughter, devotedly cares for their aging father until she, too, is found leprous and is exiled to Spinalonga.
The unusual idea of writing about a leper colony was the book's one redeeming feature in my opinion, but if that appeals to you, read Moloka'i instead -- it wasn't amazing, but it was way better than 474 pages of "You must pay the rent!"

I didn't know a lot about leprosy before reading this book, to me it is a biblical illness which is slightly distasteful and I didn't realise that patients sometimes lived in these isolated communities for years before the disfigurement and death happened.
The subject matter was too heavy for a beach read but the authors style and language was too clunky to make a decent novel.
A lot of the time the author didn't seem to know who was the main character of her novel either.
I have never written a review or reccomendation before & i wont tell the story line because there are many revews here that have already done that, not to mention the blurb.
Instead i will tell you why it s one of my all time favourites (another being Birds Without Wings by Louis de Berniere) & why I recommend it to anyone who will listen, even my husband who also loved it!
The story is so well written that you can see the people and places vividly, submerging you into their world.
This book was awesome.
I read it on my honeymoon, while I was laying on the beach, and I couldn't put it down.
I read the whole thing in two days.
I would recommend this book to anyone interested in European history.
I learned a ton about leprosy and the stigma associated with the disease.
I think we all know a bit about leprosy, but it was really enlightening about the overall topic, especially since it is still an epidemic in many third world countries.
This is a great book -- I enjoyed it completely.
Με το παρόν βιβλίο η Βικτόρια Χίσλοπ μας αγάπησε ως χώρα (έμαθε ελληνικά, ήρθε στη χώρα, πληρώνει ΕΝΦΙΑ για το σπίτι της στην Κρήτη, έκανε δουλειά με το MEGA και εξακολουθεί να μας αγαπάει - βέβαια μια Βρετανή θεωρεί λογικό να πληρώσει φόρο ιδιοκτησίας και στο MEGA την προσκυνούσαν για την τιμή που τους έκανε να τους δώσει το βιβλίο της - γενικά νομίζω ότι αντιμετωπίζεται με μεγάλο σεβασμό από όλο τον κόσμο και γι' αυτό εξακολουθεί να μας αγαπάει, άσε που κι εμείς μη γνωρίσουμε φιλέλληνα, τεμενάδες του κάνουμε - κλείνω κάπου εδώ την παρένθεση για να πω και δυο λόγια για το βιβλίο!)Το βιβλίο το είχα διαβάσει παράλληλα με το σίριαλ.
After a brief Part One in which readers meet Alexis and her mother Sofia, the entire novel until the very end is about Eleni (Alexis's great grandmother) and Eleni's daughters, Anna and Maria.
Anna is an awful character, the daughter that is evil and cruel and wants something for nothing.
Shortly after Eleni dies, Anna marries into a wealthy family and has all she has ever wanted, fine clothes, maids, and a life of money spending and idleness.
Unfortunately, and much to Anna's glee, Maria contracts leprosy and must go live on Spinalonga.
Despite her hardships and disease, Maria outshines Anna in life and happiness.
At the end I had developed no warmth or engagement with Alexis or Sofia or felt any real emotion at the change to their relationship.The story of Eleni and Giorgis and their daughters was far more engaging and was clearly given all of the author's attention and skill.
My only criticism about this section of the book (which is the bulk of it really) is that there didn't seem to be any character development or progress through the course of the story.
Eleni, Giorgis, Anna, and Maria all pretty much remain the same characters from start to finish.Nonetheless, a nice, easy read that illuminates, if fictionally, a fascinating bit of Greek history.
I always wanted to go to Greece in literature and now I have. Let me tell you, it was worth the trip in this story too. This book is like getting postcards from all the places you have never been to and now don't want to. For Home is gone and it is now in every one of those places you will never visit.Highly recommended.
Πολύ μου άρεσε! Θίγοντας ένα ευαίσθητο κι επικίνδυνου θέμα, κατάφερε η συγγραφέας να μας χαρίσει ένα σπουδαίο βιβλίο που ευτύχησε και σε μια καταπληκτική τηλεοπτική μεταφορά.
Todos nós já ouvimos falar da lepra, nem que tenha sido, como eu, na catequese e na leitura da Bíblia ou, se recordam do pai de um dos personagens de Braveheart, não me recordo agora o nome dele.
Relativamente às personagens masculinas deste livro, para mim passam apenas por personagens secundárias uma vez que todas as personagens femininas têm uma personalidade bastante mais relevante do que qualquer um deles, desde a doce, corajosa e sábia Eleni, a tranquila, ponderada mas sofredora Maria e claro, a imprudente, egoísta e impetuosa Anna.
A really enjoyable read, albeit out of my usual genres.
That said being a real Hellenophile and having a number of Cretan friends, I was always going to enjoy it.
I do not know the area described in the book at all well, my friends live nearer Rethymno, but I have flown in over Spinalonga many times and was aware of its history.
The story was woven well into the history of both Crete and the Isle of Spinalonga.
Would recommend to anyone with a love of Greece or Crete, or just looking for a genuinely good story well told.
Uma lindíssima história sobre mudança, resiliência, segundas oportunidades, segredos e claro, amor.A autora escreve de forma cativante e interessante sobre um tema pouco ou nada abordado em literatura: a Doença de Hanseníase, ou como é mais conhecida, lepra. Uma doença tão antiga, quanto estigmatizante.Adoro estes livros que para além do seu caráter lúdico têm sempre uma componente história e informativa.Altamente recomendável!
Knjiga mi se svidjela, radnja me držala znatiželjnom od prve do zadnje stranice. Svidjela mi se snaga nekih ljubavnih prica, svidjeli su mi se likovi, iako neki možda nisu najbolje razrađeni. Ali moram priznati da se slažem s nekim komentarima koje sam pročitala, stil pisanja je poprilično jednostavan, u početku je to ok ali do kraja knjige malo dojadi. Sve u svemu, lijepa priča, spisateljica me ipak uspjela uvući u nju, uživala sam pa stoga pet zvjezdica.
And the modern-day story of a young woman searching for her own identity, seeking her past and her future, makes a pleasing wrapper.The writing changes point of view with unsettling fluidity; the reader’s certainty of characters’ innermost thoughts creating an intriguing contrast with the modern-day protagonist’s uncertainties about her mother and her lover.
Meanwhile the mystery of leprosy becomes something real that I’m glad to know more about.At 473 pages this is a long novel to be savored slowly, but it’s a fascinating tale leaving a lingering taste of sunshine and mystery.Disclosure: I borrowed this book from a friend of my mother’s in England.
21/1 - I think this book desperately wanted to be a non-fiction history book, but maybe Hislop was unable to find any stories from real residents of Spinalonga so was forced to write it with fictional ones.
This book had no editing problems (that I could see), so I didn't feel justified in giving it a one despite how dry the writing was considering the fact that it should have been an emotional story featuring people being sent away from their families because of the diagnosis of leprosy.
I think I would have been better off reading a book on the actual history of the island, rather than this one.
I have watched the Greek series based on the book so I knew what was going on, but still I loved the book.
I think they gave life to the book.
I read the book in Greek but I don't think the English/original version could be bad.
The lives of Petrakis family was given in such a way that kept my interest.
this poor man had to endure everything during his life.I loved the book.
it kept me up reading it for hours.
I am going to watch the series again, too.
And, as others have noted, we didn't need the clumsy device of Alexis and Ed in Crete to tell the story of the family afflicted by leprosy over two generations.The story of the leper colony on Spinalongi was clearly what drove Hislop in writing this book and the most interesting thing about it.Perhaps it is why it was on best seller lists for so long.
And no doubt the sales volume influenced the book industry panel that gave Hislop the best New Writer in the BritishNational Book awards in 2007.This was a book club choice.
3.5 stars. It was ok, and the central story of the leper colony was very interesting. The crime of passion a bit OTT, but I felt that the first and last chapter, involving another generation of the family, was rather pointless. I may still read The Thread, as I have it in my kindle already, and it is set in the hometown of a good friend.
Hislop includes a range of incidents that took place on and around Spinalonga, which appear to have come from newspaper reports of the time.
Rather than tell a more restricted tale of life on Spinalonga she ranges wider and tries to develop a love triangle between two sisters and a local Lothario.
Also who was doing the cooking in the Vandoulakis household?Secrecy seems to be a major theme and the justification for extending the tale for two more generations, making the book too long and rather tedious.
Hislop is obviously very popular but I won't be spending any more time reading her books.
When I first read its reviews, I got a completely wrong impression of this book and was even reluctant to read it, expecting it to be a melodramatic account of a Mediterranean romance.
What I liked most are the characters, their qualities, life challenges, and relationships.
In many ways were Maria and Dr Nikolaos Kyritsis, Eleni and Giorgis Petrakis as well as Dr Christos Lapakis and Fotini heroic, but on the other hand, they were also completely human, sometimes feeling insecure, desperate, lonely, exhausted.
It is the integrity of their character that always helped them to endure the hardships and traumas and to survive.
Set on a Greek Island, the excuse for the main character to go to the former leper colony was contrived, and didn't make much sense to me.
Why her mother would have simply cut off contact with everyone she knew I didn't really understand; I didn't engage with any of the characters as I felt they had little substance behind them.
The transformation of the leper colony from a crumbling dank village into a thriving community was described reasonably well.
However I never really felt I was 'there' , unlike in Captain Corelli's Mandolin, which I felt described life in Greece much better, and had much deeper characters.
Ένα βιβλίο με πολλές πωλήσεις, αγαπητό στο αναγνωστικό κοινό για την πλοκή και την περιγραφή του κρητικού τοπίου.
Γιατί μου άρεσε αυτό το βιβλίο; Καταπιάνεται με ένα ευαίσθητο θέμα της εποχής κ η συγγραφέας καταφέρνει να παρουσιάσει την ασθένεια αλλά και την καθημερινότητα της ζωής των λεπρών με σεβασμό στα δικαιώματά τους.
Πρόκειται για ένα βιβλίο που θα βρει σε αυτό ο αναγνώστης θέματα που αφορούν την ιστορία, την πολιτική, την θέση της γυναίκας, το δικαίωμα στο σεξ.
Περιγραφική και λυρική με μέτρο η Hislop στην γραφή της.
So beautifully written - I just didn't want it to end.
It started quite slowly, but I persevered and once I got into it I just couldn't put it down!The story is about a girl who wants to find out more about her family history, only to discover under the layers of secrecy from her mother a story of betrayal and pain, accented by so much love of those that held it all together and tried to build a life despite the pitfalls.The description of the places, both historical and present day, is as beautiful as the characters.
It is definitely something I want to read again!
Πρέπει να ήταν υπέροχο βιβλίο... αλλά έκανα το λάθος και το διάβασα μετά την σειρά.. αφού με ξέρω γτ τα κάνω αυτά ??? Η σειρά σαφώς ήταν πιο καλή και από το βιβλίο... (για σας που έχετε διαβάσει το βιβλίο το ξέρω ότι μπορεί να διαφωνήσετε μαζί μου και καλά θα κάνετε) απλά δεν παίζει να έχω δει σειρά/ταινία και να διαβάσω μετά το βιβλίο και να μου αρέσει το 2ο καλύτερα από το 1ο....!!!Sorry Victoria αλλά 2 αστέρια από μένα ... και πολλά είναι :P
The Island is definitely on my ' best read books ' list. This is a beautifully written story with characters so convincing that I had to keep reminding myself that the book is in fact fiction. The book brought back fond memories of my trip to Crete a few years ago and I regret now not having visited Spinalonga. However if I do go back I will definitely make that boat trip.
