https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53673.The_Devils_of_Loudun
I mean, if you're looking for something that deals with actual demon possession, or a piece of lurid fiction dealing with similar subject matter, this book probably isn't what you're looking for.
And, if you're NOT interested in demon possession, the tag-line will keep you from reading the book.
It also deals with an alleged case of demon possession: that is also true.
In case you're thinking this is all sort of dark, I should mention that he spends a lot of time emphasizing the positive (what he calls Original Virtue, rather than Original Sin).
Huxley’s account of the Church’s investigation into demonic possession in a seventeenth century French town is a disturbing example of institutional abuse, sexual repression, and political ambition.
The damaging and hysterical testimony of the Mother Superior in particular, was born of the severe sexual, political, and societal constraints placed on women at the time.
The community in which the trail and execution took place provides an example of group think and mass hysteria, reminding me how little we have changed in the last three hundred years.
I have mentioned the Devils of Loudun throughout the years and find that most people know nothing of it.
I can't begin to claim to fully measure up to that standard but the reader for whom this book was written would scoff a criticism of the language or presentation as too demanding.
Huxley made a deep survey into the theology of the day of the trial.
He examines the evidence offered in the trial in light of that standard.
Huxley avoided the historicist fallacy of criticizing the condemnation of Grandier based upon the values and knowledge of his day.
He could have drawn generalized conclusions but, instead, he takes the more specific approach of condemning only the finding of this trial.
Through Urbain Grandier's lustful shortcomings he garners enemies for taking advantage not only the fine prioresses of the region; some of whom are daughters of important men in the clergy, but also manipulating those apart and following the church in a didactic fashion.
Through never-ending trials and appeals, enough 'subjective' evidence is garnered to sell the court on the 'fact' that Urbain is guilty of sorcery and was the reason why the Loudun nuns and the prioress were possessed.
That is until a good majority involved became possessed themselves seemingly out the vengeful righteousness of god/the devil.Throughout the book Huxley pivots from one person/topic to another depending on the point he is trying to bring to lite.
I read the story of Loudun demonic possessions in so many renderings.
It's the case when a true story is more complex and amazing than any fiction can be.I never thought one could tell this story in such a dry, dull, monotone way as Aldous Huxley did.
I mean how - how can one suck all life out of a story that is overfilled with passions.Okay, I certainly expected something different from this book.
Had I wanted to read about Aldous Huxley and his endless musings, ideas and opinions on theology, spirituality, politics, etc.
And I didn't like this book at all.
The Devils of Loudun is a fascinating historical account, written like a fiction, detailing a scandalous affair in 1630s France. A priest is falsely accused of cursing a convent of nuns, causing them to be possessed by demons. Addressing the catastrophic dangers posed by religious hysteria, this book is by no means an attack on the Christian faith. Rather, it is an incredibly insightful meditation on the pious life, the ordeals of the devout, and the mysterious workings of God. Equally disturbing as it is moving, I found it rivetting. One of the best I have read this year.
Oliver Sacks mentions this work in his new book Hallucinations for its depictions of groups experiencing mass delusions. I do not know if Arthur Miller read this when working on his play The Crucible, but I have my suspicions.
Huxley is an excellent expository writer (at times a little pedantic) and the book provides a wealth of information on French society of the early 17th Century.
But Huxley was also interested in "cosmic" issues, and there are long digressions (including Chapter 3 entire) that provides Huxley's views on the soul, etc.
Without this, I would have given the book 5 stars, but I'm not saying his digressions are without merit.
They just weaken the strength of his narrative in my opinion.Also be warned that there are stretches in untranslated French (including the "dirty parts").
But looking back and up, from our vantage point on the descending road of modern history, we now see that all the evils of religion can flourish without any belief in the supernatural, that convinced materialists are ready to worship their own jerry-built creations as though they were the Absolute, and that self-styled humanists will persecute their adversaries with all the zeal of Inquisitors exterminating the devotees of a personal and transcendent Satan.
And when the current beliefs come, in their turn, to look silly, a new set will be invented, so that the immemorial madness may continue to wear its customary mask of legality, idealism and true religion."
A tasty combination of history, theology, and psychology, rolled up in a greasy tortilla of religious hysteria and garnished with Huxley's twin trademarks of (1) haughty contempt for the stupidity and gullibility of the unwashed masses and (2) sexsexsex.
but really, who these days thinks that people didn't treat each other like total shite in the 17th century, that organized religion hasn't historically been an astonishingly fertile source of depravity and woe, or that priests don't have sex?
it's like an entire intro-level college course on early modern European history, distilled down to one particular case study in one book.
At one level it is the biography of Urbain Grandier, the Catholic priest so condemned.
On yet another, it is a mystery, exploring the possible motives of the main players in the drama in the context of the hegemonizing Catholic nation-state and its executive head at the time, Cardinal Richelieu.
On all three levels it worked for me.Ken Russell's film adaptation of the book, entitled The Devils (1971), also deserves note as a fine piece of work which manages to survey all three levels of the narrative outlined above.
In my opinion, it is Russell's best film and one of Oliver Reed's best roles.
Ultimately Huxley finds the key -- what he believes is a common human experience that has existed throughout all times and places-- a quest for "self-transcendence," sometimes achieved through "herd intoxication" (participation in a mob).
In the personages of other times and alien cultures we recognize our all too human selves and yet are aware, as we do so, that the frame of reference within which we do our living has changed, since their day, out of all recognition, that propositions which seemed axiomatic then are now untenable and that what we regard as the most self-evident postulates could not, at an earlier period, find entrance into even the most boldly speculative mind.
He says there's no reason to discount the existence of malevolent discorporate conscious entities, or demons, but in this case the corruption of Catholic church makes us doubt their involvement.
I see parallels in the behaviour of the Catholic church in authority institutions throughout history, the way they seek out enemies in order to legitimise their hold on power reminds me of Bitter Lake, the Adam Curtis film about how British army in Afghanistan imagined enemies and in doing so created and aggravated real ones.
The Catholic church is evil.
Today the aching void of boredom is filled and perpetually renewed by movies, and radio, television, and the comic strips."-Pg. 19"When the phenomenal ego transcends itself, the essential Self is free to realize, in terms of finite consciousness, the fact of its own eternity, together with the correlative fact that every particular in the world of experience partakes of the timeless and the infinite."-Pg. 69"If hell is paved with good intentions, it is because most people, being self-blinded to the inner light are actually incapable of having a purely good intention."-Pg. 87"For example, those who have experimented with hypnosis find that, at a certain depth of trance, it happens not too infrequently that subjects, if they are left alone and not distracted, will become aware of an immanent serenity and goodness that is often associated with a perception of light and of spaces vast but not solitary."-Pg. 91"I make a sharp distinction between Operative Witchcraft and Ritual Witchcraft.
Fascinating Study of CorruptionI knew of the case from other accounts, but here we have an examination of the very human, and still very relatable, motivations that manifested within the specific environment and period.
Readers come away with greater knowledge of the theories of the day as well as modern explanations of what was believed to be supernatural.
The dramatic unfolding of the tragedy is at times comic in that its dogmatic insistence is so transparent even at that time.
The historical accuracy and clear, adroit prose make it a pleasure to read.
Heartbreaking and horrific, historical, heretical and humorous, a human drama told masterfully and truthfully.
I found a Vintage Classics paperback version of this book in the Warsaw airport a while back, and reading it caused me to immediately buy several more of Huxley's books.
The second story of this book for me is the most interesting, and I believe it may have been what drew Huxley to write the book in the first place.Sister Jeanne des Anges and Joseph Surin both allowed themselves to be 'possessed by devils' for very different reasons.
Despite the subject matter being interesting Huxley manages to suck all the excitement out of it like the Hungry Caterpillar munching its way rapidly through a pile of cotton wool.
This novel lacks a protagonist and reads like a history textbook and Grandier would be the natural choice.
Or at least if you do put it in a novel: make it interesting.
Huxley is good at inventing interesting concepts but they are interesting in spite of, not because of his writing.

Huxley provides a very interesting summary and explanation of the 1643 events surrounding nuns possessed by the devil and the priest who was wrongly accused and burned at the stake for instigating the mayhem.
However, Huxley went beyond that, attempting to provide explanations of why these events happened in the first place (crowd-delirium/herd-intoxication), as well as, delving into spirituality and religious practices (transcendence and the willingness to condemn oneself).
Unfortunately, it appears to be a mixture of both, which, in my mind, provided a very dismal view of religion and those practicing and preaching it.
Got interested in reading this book after seeing Ken Russell's "The Devils" the other month.
Historically quite interesting in the views of early science, medicine and psychology and of the dominant philosophies of the day - Huxley does well in comparing the ethereal ideas of then with those of his contemporary world (fascism, communism, totalitarian concepts).
Could have done with some editing as it does drag in places but certainly a lot to think about.
Opera monumentale, tra il romanzo e il saggio, che attraverso la vera storia di un caso di possessione diabolica in un piccolo centro della Francia di Richelieu, ricostruisce l'orrore della caccia alle streghe e nello stesso tempo traccia le linee della possessione moderna, l'alienazione mentale causata dalla dittatura.Il libro alterna capitoli di precisa ricostruzione storica, leggermente romanzata per renderla più gradita al lettore, e capitoli di analisi etica, spiritualista e filosofica nei quali l'autore dispiega una immensa erudizione che comprende anche le teologie orientali meno conosciute.Non facile, ma caldamente raccomandabile.
Certainly not the easiest of books to read, but beautifully written and an astonishing story so well worth persevering with.To read Huxley's non-fiction gives an even better insight into his talent as an author, and the quality of his writing as passages in this text are as delightful to read as poetry.He also approaches a very difficult subject with enormous sympathy, showing a balanced view of all elements of the drama and conjuring a unique portrait of life at this time punctuated with philosophical and religios insight that gives colour to our understanding of Huxley as a man.
Based on a true story. Such an outlandish book. Follow it up with Ken Burn's "The Devils" if you want to get really weird. Otherwise, just appreciate the way Huxley weaves his thorough understanding of history, philosophy, and religion through this book. "Grey Emminence" is the lesser known work touching on the same religious subjects without the hoopla. But the hoopla is great!
Chronicles the events around Loudun, France that Ken Russell portrays (in his particular fashion) in the infamous film (one of my favorites), "The Devils." It seems that politically-motivated scare tactics have been around for a long time, whether WMDs, Al Qaida or the Devil, itself. Gets things done.
At times overly detailed/pedantic, this book nonetheless warrants the effort. An interesting look into the religion, superstition, and power struggles that defined an epoch. Especially interesting from the point of view of mental imprisonment.
Batshit crazy. Fascinating portrayal of politics and "possession" in 17th Century France. Felt it lost its way in discussions of spirituality, but characterisation and psychology were sound. Some wonderfully dark, comedic touches throughout e.g. description of nun doing the splits.
Really fascinating. Huxley is brilliant of course. I think people with an interest in historic influences of the church, spiritualism, the human psyche, mass hypnotism, effects of torture on information gathering and other neat things like that would dig this book.
too dry for me
A fascinating and terrifying, and yet often oddly hilarious, glimpse into this horrific episode in history.
It is necessary to die to self in order to receive the grace of God. The Evil of Urbain GrandierThis book is a true account of Urbain Grandier, a French Catholic priest who was burned at the stake in 1634 under accusations of witchcraft.
Huxley points out the propensity for such evil is especially prone to arise in hypocrites like Grandier, a priest and man of the cloth, who really doesn’t know Christ.
Isolated masturbation diminishes natural motivations for acquiring a human mate by satisfying functions that normally bring people together; and instead opens one to the addiction of an imagined relationship.
