https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1045071.The_Bates_Method_for_Better_Eyesight_without_Glasses
I passed my eye test for my driver's test. William Bates skirts around certain mysteries in this book regarding the brain, eyesight, and spirituality. I would like to read a book about him. His thinking fascinates me.
Great information, but I wish I had an optometrist who would be willing to do it with me. I have asked, but of course they are all taught in school that vision cannot be improved except by artificial means.
I'm not sure how sound the science is behind these theories, but I figure as long as I don't know for sure, I'll go ahead and assume it's all true, try out what he recommends, and see if it works. Certainly can't hurt. All you have to do is read the book (which I've done) and give it a couple minutes a day (which I'm going to do). Worth it if it can keep your vision at peak, or even restore slipped vision. And if not, well, nothing lost.
THIS IS AMAZING.
My sister had vision therapy when we were little, and this looks to be the same stuff she was doing, so I'm inclined to believe it.
I read this in the first place because the same sister got it from the library; she seems to believe it, and she's the one who did all the exercises.Quotes to ponder that relate to other aspects of life: p.50 "We cannot by any amount of effort make ourselves see, but by learning to control our thoughts we can accomplish the end indirectly."p.
62: "central fixation is impossible without mental control, [so] central fixation of the eye means central fixation of the mind.
124: "It is not light but darkness that is dangerous to the eye.
Prolonged exclusion from the light always lowers the vision."p.
MRMMMMM so I don't know how valid his claims are since they're basically all based on his own personal experience, but I'm still willing to give this Bates Method a shot...
nothing breeds faith like hopelessness!
Really though, I am blind, I am desperate, and I can easily be convinced that ophthalmologists are conspiring to keep me that way...
It also resonates with my worldview that the mind is powerful, the body is mutable, and that we control much more than we think.
My first steps: 1) Make an eye chart and 2) Remember the period!
An interesting book for anyone who wants to explore an alternative to traditional optometry to improve and possibly correct basic nearsightedness or farsightedness. See also Relax, Smile, and Enjoy the View: Natural Relief for Eyestrain by yours truly.
I can't decide if this author is a quack, or a genius. If he's right, wow! If not, you're not out anything. My guess is that this method works due to a placebo effect.
The theory of seeing without glasses gave real big insights, but it is very advanced/ specialistic without any imaging and hands-on talk. This made me look up a Dutch and more visible summary.
Excellent.
Great book on vision. Methodology works but is not instantaneous; requires active practice like guitar playing or working out.Good quick read.

As far as the book goes, nearly all of it gives a few theoretical ideas, and then a lot of the author's anecdotal successes. Only the last couple of chapters actually discuss treatment, which seems too simple to be true.I'm really skeptical, but this method also won't hurt anything. I'll give it a try for a while, and see how well it works (pun intended).
Bates .... ahh.It brings back the good old days when medicine was about lobotomies and when there was heroin in cough syrup. I read the book a while back, but a much better perspective about it is on Alex site, discussing why Bates doesn't work today: http://frauenfeldclinic.com/comedy-da...
William Bates was the first doctor to ask the question if bad eyesight was permanent. He began by experimenting on himself, and then began to help his patients do exercises to help strengthen the eyes. In this book, Dr. Bates talks about the history of his method, how the eyes can be strengthened, and how to do the exercises.
So I believe the principles are accurate. It just needs updated. If I had 3 months off work to dedicate to this I could get somewhere perhaps.This adaptation is the best I've seen on the topic:http://www.i-see.org/bershak.html
Couldn't finish it. I held high hopes for this book & it's theories, but it really had little to offer.
The copy I got is missing the last 8 pages. So far I haven't noticed any changes, but I'll keep doing the exercises.
Great general view of The Bates Method. Not intended to give a specific solution but encouragement to seek improvement in eyesight.
excellent exercises that i have found helpful.
It feels somewhat reminiscent of the method used in The Music Man, and since he died in 1931, we know at least some scientific progress must have happened.
