https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1041041.The_People_That_Time_Forgot
Yet, there is an element of fun to be had here, especially if you treat it like an old-fashioned YA novel and grant it the same kind of leeway as you would, say, a PERCY JACKSON adventure.Interestingly, it took people in the first Caspak story half the book just to reach the dinosaur-infested island, but the characters in this sequel accomplish the same feat within the first chapter--meaning a stronger focus on fighting prehistoric creatures and making out with voluptuous cavewomen.
The narrator is the kind of action hero who can fly an airplane, shoot like Annie Oakley, and learn a new language within a few days.
This book doesn't translate to modern times very well.
It's quite racist-y!
So, let's focus on the unintentionally hilarious things about this book!
Which I find hilarious.
Our narrator for this book, Tom Billings, admitted not only is he not a 'ladies man,' but that he doesn't 'make love to' women because he's pretty much unskilled, so he's just going to leave it to the dudes who are.
I'm pretty sure ol' Tom is a big ol' virgin.
Ah, love.
Poor, racist-y Tom. I'm sure he'll get his chance in one of these books.
Where the first Caspak book had an abrupt, unfinished ending, the sequel runs at a good pace and tells a satisfying story.
It's focus is the strange evolutionary process of the human life in Caspak.
As Tom Billings (the hero) learns the Caspak language, the native characters begin losing their unique voice and begin talking in the voice of the author.
This time, after reading the comments I couldn't help but add to my blurb.
Some people commented that the story was "racist", calling it a "justification for segregation." Unbelievable.
Then there are all the people talking about how "silly" the evolutionary cycle is.
In the first installment, The Land that Time Forgot, Bowen Tyler gets stranded on Caspak, a lost world where prehistoric animals and subhuman people exist.
The story picks up in The People that Time Forgot as Bowen’s friend Tom Billings decides to go looking for him.
Soon after arriving on Caspak, Tom saves a slender and “adorable” scantily-clad girl who he can’t think of romantically because she’s dirty and “so far beneath me in the scale of evolution.” He spends a lot of time thinking about how he can’t fall in love with a savage, but she turns out to have dimples and nice teeth and Tom discovers that he can’t bear to leave her in the end.
I wouldn’t hesitate to recommend this version if you want to read The People that Time Forgot.
I loved it.
After reading the first part of the trilogy, which I enjoyed, I had to read this.
And I'm glad I did.The story continues where the first left off.
I won't tell you the whole story, and how it ends.
But I will urge you to read it.It holds the same adventure, a cross between Tarzan and Indiana Jones, as the first.I'm enjoying Burroughs' writing for a few reasons.
These tales are a century old, yet they hold vibrancy I find lacking in some modern books.
Things are left to the imagination, which is stimulated in many other ways.

Not the greatest book unless you like pulpy adventure. Which, as you could guess, I do. One thing I do want to point out - all of the top reviews for this book allude to how much better the prequel was. The thing they DO NOT mention is that the “first” book in the trilogy wasn’t written until several years later, so Burroughs had time to absorb criticism and write a more polished lead-in as a prequel. All in all, if you like John Carter or Indians Jones, you’ll probably enjoy this book.
One of my first memories of being totally lost in a story was curling up with an omnibus edition of the Caspak trilogy from the Science Fiction Book Club when I was twelve or thirteen.
Whatever their personal views might have been, their stories functioned as uncritical reflections of prevalent opinion of the time.
Billings spends most of the story resisting his feelings for Ajor because he feels that she is inferior, even referring to her as a “squaw” at one point in his first-person narration.
Tom Billings had come to Caspak to find his friend Bowen Tyler.
Attacked by a pterodactyl, he dips a bit low and crashes the plane into a tree, wrecking it beyond repair.
Alone, afoot, unable to get back to the top of the cliffs, hundreds of miles from Bowen's last location mentioned in the papers, Tom sets out to make his way across the island.he meets the beautiful young savage, Ajor, saving her from pursuit by a band of men.
I didn't enjoy this quite as much as the first in this series,That book set up the landscape and hab
The second of the Caspak trilogy, "The People That Time Forgot" picks up where the first book ends - and basically stagnates. A new group of adventurers head for the lost land and a new hero sets off alone into the savage land. It's a retread of the first book - exciting enough, but with little extra to offer the readers.
Hands down the worst book I have ever read. I once read a 100-page book about the health benefits of chewing your food thoroughly that was more entertaining. If you ever stumble upon a copy, do the world a favor and burn it.Or read it and understand what slow creeping depression must feel like.
Here's a trip back to Caspak, complete with dinosaurs, cavemen, speedy evolution... but where's Bowen Tyler? Well, we've got Thomas Billings, Tyler's old chum who has come looking for him. Billings isn't at much of a deficit on learning how to cope on Caspak, since he read the account that Tyler sent off in the bottle (i.e. he read the first book), so when a pterodactyl causes his seaplane to crash, he's soon well on the way in terms of jungle survival. In no time he's got a stone-age girlfrien
Well, we've got Thomas Billings, Tyler's old chum who has come looking for him.
Billings isn't at much of a deficit on learning how to cope on Caspak, since he read the account that Tyler sent off in the bottle (i.e. he read the first book), so when a pterodactyl causes his seaplane to crash, he's soon well on the way in terms of jungle survival.
There are no Germans and no war in this entry, and Billings is the only member of modern civilization in the book after he leaves the boat.
Back in the JungleThe Caspak series seems to be even more of an experiment with a theory for ERB than the Tarzan series.
He seems to spend this sequel just reveling in the world he created in book one of the set.
I noticed long ago with the Tarzan movie series that its entirely possible to turn the volume all the way down and still get the same experience.
The words here are the weak link in Caspak.
I wouldn't quite call it sequelitis yet, even though that happens somewhat later in the Tarzan series.
Either way, the world creation is where he shines.
The People That Time Forgot follows the adventures of Tom Billings, a friend of the protagonist of the first Capsak novel, The land that time forgot.
Stranded from his crew after his hydroplane is disabled by some kind of pterodactyl, Tom manages to travel the entire length of Capsak, surviving countless dangers along the way, with the help of his eventual wife A-jar, a native of one of the higher orders of evolutionary man.
For Capsak is chock full of the results of evolution, with the island being split up into different sections controlled by the various levels of man, from gorillas and apes to the Galoos, who are basically Tarzan like beings.
Another enjoyable adventure novel from one of the greats.
Here we have Tom who is heading to the island of ancients to save Bowen, who was the protagonist from the first novel.
Once again we run into animals long extinct and people from every stage of evolution.
He meets a woman of one of the higher evolutions of people and of course falls in love with her.
The social structure among these people is interesting and it seems they jump evolutionary steps if they are called upon.
I hope that's not how ERB thought evolution works, but it's an interesting idea.
Yes, it is absurd in so many levels (when looking back from year 2018), but still it is a nicely quick and easy read, a true adventure story of very fortunate and capable "average" men surviving in a Jurassic Park, falling for the cavewoman and fighting dinosaurs (cause it's either you or them). Perfect for passing time, since not much brains needed to concentrate. Well, okay - unless you actually wanna keep track of all these different evolutionary stages of the prehistoric humans :D
Among the many things I like about Mr. Burroughs is the way he prefaces his tales with little stories of how he came to know the adventure set foth therein. The Caspak books are some of my favorites.
Not as good as the first book, mostly due to the protagonist being less likable. It's still an interesting way to think of evolution and the changes mankind has gone through to become who/what we are now.
The land that time forgot and the people of time forgot was not a bad set of books. It seems like the main character was always in a life threating circumstance which certainly kept the story interesting. I wouldn't however, say that this story is fantastic.
This book is rather racy and evolutionarily incorrect. Tom Billings is more arrogant than the man who he is looking for. I was wanting to hear more about Bowing Jr. instead of Billing's escapades around the island.
Okay book, not particularly exciting. The language of this book can come across as derogatory and patronising since it was written 100 years ago. However, the plot is somewhat interesting.
I liked the male and female leads more this time around and Caprona is turning out to be a very interesting place. Some big questions will need answering in the conclusion of this series.
Interesting and kept me reading. Other than the racial overtones, often encountered with Burroughs books, and a rather abrupt ending, the tale told is a fun read.
This was interesting to read a continuation but from another perspective. I'm glad how things ended up.
Audiobook Not as good as the first book, but decent story.
BravoA good read, young readers will find the language prehistoric. As with all Burroughs it's an adventure in an alternate world. Well worth the time!
The trilogy is really just one normal length adventure divided into three books and if you stop at #1, you've only read a third of the story. Completing the series left me with a much more positive feeling about it.
It’s pretty good to read if you like the wild life because in this book it takes place in a jungle full of dinosaurs and many prehistorically creatures.
“The People That Time Forgot” is about a man named Tom Billings that has set out to rescue his missing friend Bowen Tyler from the content of Caprona.
When he arrives and goes off, he meets a barbarian chic named Ajur that is in a tribe and decides to go help with the search party.
During their search they not only meet hungry carnivores and savage saber-toothed tigers but also death traps from other tribes.
Sent in to scout out options for the rest of the team, Tom is cut off from his colleagues and must deal with the wonders and dangers of Caspak alone…until he meets the lovely Ajor, who is of the Galu people, on an evolutionary scale much like early twentieth century humans.An alternative evolution for humans provides the most interesting plot device in the novel, and in my opinion, makes it more intriguing than the first book in the series: the farther ones moves geographically across the island, the more different humanoid types one encounters, and they live in a progressively accelerating order of development, from lowly ape-men who do not talk up through the Galus and their winged nemeses, the Wieroo.
