https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13831.Alanna
As one of my childhood favourites, how could I not rate this 5 stars!?
But the story is short, fun, action-packed with magic and mystery and high-adventure.Alanna it a great character.
There's this evil character in the book, The king's nephew.
This isn't the first time I've read something like this in a book and I have to wonder if the author ever imagined what it would be like growing up in court - a system usually known for its lies and betrayal and petty squabbling over power.Now, I'm sorry, but if I were Queen of the world (think about it - it really wouldn't be such a bad idea.
In retrospect, this is not a perfect novel, or series of novels, but when I think of who I wanted to be when I was ten years old, my answer was always Alanna. (And I still have a crush on George.)
3.5 starsFinally read this (*gasp*!) for our classics discussion Friday, 11/27! Our special guest will be the wonderful author Andrea K. Höst, and I'll post a link when it's live.I enjoyed this very much, but it felt like a first book, with rough transitions and rather unnuanced characterization. But I do like Alanna (and I love George!), so I'm looking forward to reading the rest of the series.
I totally would've given this book 5 stars in middle school and been obsessed with it.
I really, really wish I had found it then!!
It's still a fun read now, though!
I can see how it inspired of a lot of other YA books about girls dressing as boys to become knights.
I'm definitely reading the rest of this series and trying to get to the rest of the Tamora Pierce books I missed out on when I was younger.
I found like 10 of them on Book Outlet, so let me know if you have any favorites!!
*3.5/5*This was a super fun read, however it definitely reads like it was written for children (which it was).
The world and magic aren't very complex or explained in great detail, and we don't get to know the characters super well, but as a book written for kids it was pretty great!
We have a super strong female lead, and I can now understand why this book is a must-read for all young girls.
I definitely plan to read the rest of the series though since I've heard this is the weakest of the four!
TEN REASONS WHY I DONT LIKE THIS BOOK/SERIES:
I pretty much read all the good classic gender bender manga out there and watched all the asian dramas about the subject (there are so many) so believe me when I say I know my stuff and because I know my stuff I’m telling you this book sucks at making it believable.There’s like no tension when it comes to gender bender here.
Where the hell all these great mentality is coming from?Dont start with me by saying : ‘…but Tamara its get better in later books'  cause I’ve done enough research to know it doesnt.
This is the first book in a series written for the younger end of the young adult readership, but which is still of interest to readers of any age.Alanna: The First Adventure is a fantasy set in a place where magic is common and knights are trained in the ways of chivalry.
It was a very pleasant, light, easy read and I would recommend it to younger readers starting out in the world of fantasy and also to young at heart readers who feel like a breath of fresh air in their reading matter.
OH MY GOD. SO. GOOD.I'm so mad I didn't start this series earlier!!! It's so similar to Harry Potter in the way that it's just a feel good book with interesting characters and the best friendships + MAGIC. ...anyway, on to book two! ---my longest and most terrible reading slump is FINALLY OVER.[of course, right when school's starting -.- but oh well]
Not really a review, more a memory:I can pinpoint the origin of these books with the most clarity.
I remember being handed the first one by a librarian, and begging my parents to buy it for me when I had to turn it back in.
I remember then begging the librarian to tell me the date the next one was expected to release (that was the only way to find out, in those days).
I remember the look and location of each new book, in the bookstore, when I went to pick it up.
I probably would have liked this better if I'd read it for the first time when I was younger.
The heroine is a fairly typical spunky fantasy female, she's a little too perfect and good at everything.
It takes place over several years, though the passage of time seems a little muddy and the only real sense of it is that sometimes Alanna will mention her age.
It's written in third person, and for the most part we're only in Alanna's head.
But there are occasionally parts where we're reading about what another character is thinking, those moments are jarring and don't always seem to serve much purpose.
This is one of those books that will stick with me, literally and metaphorically. I have it with me at college... The whole series and all the ones I have of the spin off series are dear to me. They are wonderful for girls who are growing up. It is one story after another of strong young girls turning into strong young women.
). But all fangirling aside, I will say that it is impossible to overstate how hard I fell for this series and that imagining my life without them is not only distasteful but unfathomable.Faced with being unwillingly separated and sent away to the palace and the convent respectively, twins Thom and Alanna of Trebond take matters into their own hands.
Alanna will masquerade as Thom's twin "Alan" and train to be a knight.
Because Alanna is one of those girls she will need to know.
“Alan, you seem to think we won't like you unless you do things just like everyone else. Have you ever thought we might like you because you're different?”  Really enjoyed reading this.The writing is not really my cup of tea but the story was interesting enough for me to continue reading about Alanna and her adventures.As someone who's reading the last one right now,I can definitely say that this is the best one in the series.The characters are funny and normal, there's a lot of healthy friend
“Alan, you seem to think we won't like you unless you do things just like everyone else.
Have you ever thought we might like you because you're different?”
Really enjoyed reading this.The writing is not really my cup of tea but the story was interesting enough for me to continue reading about Alanna and her adventures.As someone who's reading the last one right now,I can definitely say that this is the best one in the series.The characters are funny and normal, there's a lot of healthy friendships, the story is captivating and Alanna is quite an interesting character with unique ideas.In this book she's still growing up and finding out more and more about the world she's living in.
It's not a perfect introduction to the world or the characters, but I didn't even mind, because I was having too much fun reading about Alanna, while also getting angrier and angrier that no one sat me down and made me read these books when I was a kid.I don't know how she did it, but Tamora Pierce seems to be almost supernaturally tuned into what little girls want their heroines to be.
Because seriously, if you polled a hundred little girls and asked them what kind of book they would want to read, Alanna: The First Adventure would cover everything on their list.
Alanna: The First Adventure is a good book that you would want your small daughter to read and learn from.
My desire to read the sequel did not appear until the very end and only because I really wanted to know how Alanna's relationship with Prince Jonathan would unfold, I thought that story line had a lot of promise.
BUT, the moment I read some reviews of In the Hand of the Goddess that mentioned Alanna's bed-hopping, my desire to continue on with the story completely evaporated.
But at 27, after hearing my twenties-something friends wax nostalgic, I figured I was being grossly unfair, and that I'd finally get around to reading it.I feel bad, because I'm gonna have to tell them I don't like Their Favorite Thing and they're gonna give me the sad-eye, but it's not a very good book.
I reaaaaally wanted to like it, but:Alanna doesn’t really have a personality.
Jonathan is good and prince-like.
Not surprising, if Jonathan sees Roger the way Alanna sees Sir Myles.
Good, because I want to get to actual adventuring quickly, not read about school the whole time.The Black City?
Alanna wants to be a warrior, not a lady, so when her father sends her twin brother to court to become a page, she takes his place and changes her name to Alan. Her brother Thom disguises himself her clothes and sneaks off to learn magic (unfortunately we don't get much of his story). This was a favorite when I was 9 or 10; I suspect it wouldn't seem very original to me at this point.
I just hope the plot is going to focus on romance too much if there is going to be any.One flaw I must point out in particular with writing a high fantasy novel this short is it leaves little room for character and world development.
Another thing is I would have liked to get to know all the characters a bit more with more time being spent with them and some history about them perhaps… But there are three more books in the series so there’s obviously a lot more to come.So overall this was a fast, action filled, light fantasy that most of the time lives up to expectation but would have probably been better if it was made a bit longer.
Monthly buddyread with my good friend Melissa. This was my companion for a "Holy Crap! Its friggin cold!" day (Anyone else want to hibernate till Spring?)---I liked it alright, but didn't "LOVE it." The ideas were nice and the characters were interesting but it just didn't capture my attention fully. Yes, this is a ya/middle grade book but it felt like some things happened too quickly. A couple times I had to go back and check a passage because the passage of time wasn't very well marked.Won't be continuing with the series but I don't regret reading it.
I borrowed this book from a friend, and really have nothing good to say about it.
I thought that the plot line was overused, and the writing style left a lot to be desired.
It may also entertain some people, but if you're looking for good fantasy I would beg to point you in the direction of Robin McKinley's The Blue Sword or Patricia Briggs' Steal the Dragon.
However, Patricia Briggs and Robin McKinley are both, in my opinion, better writers, and the characters and plots are much more fleshed out.
A great introduction to the series and a real page turner. Of course you can't expect a complex plot or very imaginative world building, but therefore you get likeable characters and some very great themes for younger readers to pick up on like gender equality or the meaning of friendship. A really enjoyable read that works well as a refresher between bigger books.
This book was so good I can't believe it took me this long to read it Once I got into it I couldn't put it down. I can't wait till Monday so I can start the second book. Alanna proves that girls can do anything.
Add to the list of gotta-catch-em-all books-- the Song of the Lioness box set. LOOK AT THESE COVERS (the right ones, the left are the old ones). I NEED THEM LIKE AIR THEY'RE SO GORGEOUS.
Even though this series is meant for pre-teen girls, I still find it to be interesting as an adult. Alanna is a much better fictional female role model than Bella of "Twilight." Also the books are much better written. Tamora Pierce is an author; Stephanie Meyer is a joke.
*Hugs book.*

Alanna disguises herself as a boy so that she can train at the palace to become a knight. Along the way she learns how use a sword, balance her precarious friendship with the King of Thieves, and survive the impossible pile of her homework. But she must also find a way to accept her magical gift, and far more important, herself, before her own life, her best friend's (Crown Prince Jonathan's) life, and the fate of the entire kingdom is destroyed. The very first Tortall book, and one of my absolute favorites!
I hate myself for ignoring this series for years! I've heard great things about this one so shame on me. This was a really nice introductory book. It did a good job setting up the world. It definitely got me hyped to pick up the rest of the series! So excited to read more of Alanna's adventures.
It’s an interesting thought-exercise to think about what this book would be like if Tamora Pierce was writing it today!First thought: it’d probably be about four times longer! (And would the protagonist still have bright red hair and purple eyes?)
