https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62812.Runaway_Horses
3⭐ This novel and The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea are my two favorite Mishima books of the seven I've read so far. Runaway Horses is set in 1932-33, a time of economic hardship in Japan, not long after the start of the great global Depression. Farmers, especially, are suffering. Rice imports have been allowed into Japan. This has allowed for the population to be fed but at the cost of depressing domestic rice prices for farmers, many of whom are now starving. Factory workers, too, no
David Bergamini, in his book Japan's Imperial Conspiracy, describes the currency speculation on the part of government and aristocracy at this time, which he calls the “dollar swindle.” Let's just say, the episode was not good for the yen, nor the Japanese economy as a whole.This is the setting in which eighteen-year-old Isao, raised and radicalized by a dipsomaniacal right-wing father—banzai!—sets about making the terrible state of Japan better.
At the end of the novel, Isao stands up in court and gives an overly detailed speech on his motivations which strikes the reader as completely out of character.
Mishima'nın "yaşamla ve dünyayla ilgili hissettiğim, düşündüğüm her şeyi yansıttığım kitaplarım" dediği "Bereket Denizi Dörtlemesi" cidden yazarın beynine ve görüsüne bir yolculuk gibi.
Milliyetçilik şahsen kendimle çok ilintilendirebileceğim bir his olamamasına rağmen beni inanılmaz içine çekti ideolojik tarafı.Yalnız serinin bu kitabı için dikkat çekmek istediğim bir şey var: Bu kitap okunmadan evvel kesinlikle 1868 yılında başlayan Meiji Dönemi ve sonrası hakkında bilgi sahibi olun.
Elbette Mishima'nın çok daha derinlikli ve güçlü sebepleri de var ama kitabı daha iyi kavramak için yukarıda bahsettiklerim konusunda özellikle 1868-1945 arası hakkında tarihi bilgi edinmek şart.
أن تُنهي الصفحة رقم (539) وأن تعلم – مسبقًا – أن ثمة رقم مشابه وهو (532) ينتظرك مع الجزء الثاني من هذه الرباعية فهذا يعني أن الرواية جذبك جزئها الأول فنقلك للثاني حيث ثلاثينات القرن الماضي، وكانت هذه الفترة فترة زهو لليابان حيث طغيان نفودها وقوتها العسكرية بحروبها في المنطقة ضد الصين ومنشوريا وروسيا وأستولت في هذه الفترة منذ الثلاثينات حتى إستسلامها في (1945م) على عدة مناطقة كتايوان وكوريا ومنشوريا وغيرها.الرباعية التي أخرجها "يوكيو موشا" عمل ملحمي يؤرخ لمراحل مهمة من حياة اليابان منذ عهود طويلة.
غير أنهم دائما حطب كل صراع، وضحية مناطحات الكبار.تتناول الرواية قصة شاب مخلص للإمبراطور يريد تطهير اليابان من درن الرأسمالية ونجس الفساد، ويجمع حولها مجموعة من الشباب المتفاني ويقف في طريقه الكهول اللذين يخالون أنهم أدرى بماهو أجدى.هذا هو الجزء الثاني من الرباعية اليابانية الأشهر (بحر الخصب)، التي يستخدمها ميشيما لإيصال أفكاره عن الحياة والموت، البعث والانتحار.
من الصعب علي تفهم مقصد الانتحار سواء نجحت أو فشلت في تحقيق غرضك، بالذات إن كانت لك خيارات أخرى، لكن اتفهم أن تلك المبادئ تنتمي لثقافة أخرى وحقبة ماضية.يعود بطل الرواية الأولى "كيواكي" على هيئة شاب ناريّ النظرات، فولاذي العزيمة، ليس بين الإثنيّن شبه سوى شامة في البطن.
Sono trascorsi ormai 20 anni dagli ultimi fatti del testo precedente.Honda identifica nel diciannovenne Isao, figlio del precettore dell'amico scomparso, come l'incarnazione di quest'ultimo.Le vicende riguardano sia il magistrato, che tende a proteggere il giovane, sia il ragazzo che sta mitizzando un gruppo di samurai del passato inorriditi dall'occidentalizzazione del Giappone , sei dei quali si uccidono col 'suicidio rituale seppuku' , per sventramento, inneggiando all'Imperatore.Isao è talmente colpito da ciò, che raduna attorno a sé un gruppo di estremisti di destra...Qui l'autore lascia trapelare vari elementi di carattere 'autobiografico' ; non nel senso letterale del termine ma a un livello profondo esistenziale e politico.
un canto con voce quieta come la pioggia che scende bagnando una riva sabbiosa", canto che termina con l'esclamazione: "Oh, quanto breve ed effimera è la nostra vita!".
Of course, it is not necessary to be able to identity with Iaso Iinuma, the young would-be militant-terrorist at the centre of the novel, and, in any case, even I am able to understand, even to some extent appreciate, the quixotic nature of living a life of purity and heroism, but a lot of Runaway Horses philosophically and spiritually left me cold.
In Runaway Horses, Honda appears again, as previously mentioned, as does Iinuma, Prince Toin, and Marquis Matsugae, the father of the central character from Spring Snow, Kiyoaki.
“imparatorun aklından neler geçtiğini kestirmeye çalışmak bile hainliktir” diyen, “bağlılık ateşi insanın içine bir kez düştü mü, o insanın ölmekten başka seçeneğinin kalmadığına” inanan, öldürmekten, ölmekten başka bir yolu düşünmek bile istemeyen bu genç karakterlerde mişima’nın vurguladığı kavramlar tutku, inanç ve saflık.
hatta diğer kavramların ve karakterin belirleyicisi olarak görüldüğü için sadece tutkudan bahsetmek mümkün mişima anlatısında.kaçak atlar’ı okuduktan sonra bahar karları’ndaki tutkulu aşkı, anlaşılması ve okuyanın kendisiyle bağ kurması daha kolay olduğu için anlattığı bile söylenebilir belki.
ancak romanın imparatora bağlılık adına bir tür ayaklanmaya girişip seppuku yaparak intihar eden yazarın kendinden/hayatından tamamen ayrılması mümkün olmayan bir romanı olduğu düşünülürse rahatsız edici ölçüde değil bu.
I am an absolute fanboy to Japanese madman but genius writer Yukio Mishima.
His tetralogy, the Sea of Tranquility, is a powerful piece of writing of incredible beauty.
Runaway Horses is the second volume after the magnificent Spring Snow, and - as the rest of the novels - carries on the story of a few of the characters from the previous book against the historical canvas of Japan in the 30's.
Not exactly optimistic, it did involve an incredible amount of research and travel for Mishima as he was writing it.
An fabulous ride from a truly unique and incredible writer.
Egli è sempre più legato alla sua condotta ligia e ragionevole ma durante un evento, il nostro, scorgendo un ragazzo vigoroso che gli ricorda il suo amico, Isao, intuisce tramite alcune coincidenze che costui potrebbe essere la reincarnazione del defunto sodale (riprendendo l'esoterismo buddhista ampiamente citato nel primo libro).
Isao, quindi, è cresciuto col mito della lealtà incondizionata verso l'imperatore, la patria, oltre l'adorazione della figura dei samurai, finendo a sua volta per cospirare contro il sistema capitalista, uno dei tanti episodi di terrorismo dei tempi.
While Spring Snow is a poetic, tender love story, Runaway Horses is a political manifesto.
Isao, Kiyoaki reborn, knows what he wants—he is a revolutionary, he sees people as either good or evil, and he is determined to follow the plot he has created for himself until his final breath; yet Isao has no enjoyment for life, no flexibility—I anticipate in the third novel we'll find Isao reborn, a character who takes time to “stop and smell the roses.”Mishima was a wonderful writer and I thoroughly enjoyed Runaway Horses.
For Mishima, Spring Snow was the love story; Runaway Horses was the political rant.
Mişima'nın yazarlığına her kitapta daha çok hayran oluyorum. Fakat Kaçak Atlar, serinin ilk kitabı Bahar Karları'ndan oldukça farklıydı. Bahar Karları, tam bir Japon aşk şiiri kıvamında iken Kaçak Atlar baştan sona politik bir roman. Buna rağmen iki romanın birbirini tamamlayış şekli muazzam. Özellikle reankarnasyon, bir hayatta var edemediğinin diğer hayatta bütünlenmesi halinin anlatılış şeklinden çok etkilendim. Romanlardaki tarihsel devamlılık da Japon kültürünün geçirdiği değişimi ince ince takip etmeyi sağlıyor. Bir de Mişima'nın hayatına nasıl son verdiğini bilerek bu romanı okumak ayrıca etkileyici.
Blood and flowers were alike, Isao thought, in that both were quick to dry up, quick to change their substance. And precisely because of this, then, blood and flowers could go on living by taking on the substance of glory. Glory in all its form was inevitably something metallic. When I was much younger, I had some grim thoughts involving heights. Now, I'm scared of balconies if they're not fenced off. They should be enclosed with something - wires, net, a lovely lattice pattern. It pretty much
It’s not by chance that I’m reviewing this book now, before I can even think of discussing Spring Snow, the first volume of The Sea of Fertility tetralogy which involves the lives of Kiyoaki and his friend Honda, among other equally complex characters.
Nevertheless, he brings to the reader another masterful portrait of the impact of the Meiji era along with a relentless sense of nostalgia for the past - in this case, through the figure of Isao, a young man whose vanity sometimes seems to be focused on having a picturesque death whereas the message he is trying to convey becomes incidental.
I had a really hard time reading "Spring Snow" till the end, and almost gave up on continuing with the "Sea of Fertility" tetralogy.
But I sure am glad I read this.The battle between modernity and tradition has always been a central theme to Mishima's work, but the sea of fertility morphs the abstract turmoil into a battle between traditional and colonial Japan, while Mishima's hatred of authority morphs into Anti-Establishment sentiments that are somewhat in line with socialism.
The ending is one of my favorites.
If Mishima has taught us anything, Its that Art and life are only synthesized through blood.
If Spring Snow, the first book in this series, was the embodiment of Love and Passion in literature, Runaway Horses seems to be the embodiment of something else entirely, but maybe, markedly, it's actually the same thing.
There were moments when, especially near the end, I actually screamed out in awe at what Mishima was doing - drawing parallels between the different incarnations of the same being.
"Drawing our brine cart along, how briefly we live in this sad world, how fleetingly!"
Mishima’dan muhteşem bir kitap daha, okuduklarımın içinde en beğendiğim bu diyebilirim, sonu tahmin edilebilir olsa da.
Bereket Denizi dörtlemesinin ikincisi.
Bu eserinde ağırlık felsefi düşüncelerde yer almış.
Keza diğer eserlerinde olduğu gibi Japon kültürü ve geleneği, dinsel tartışmalar ve İmparatorluk’a atfettiği önem bu kitapta da yer alıyor.
Yazar kendi hayatının sonunu (sonlandırışını) sanki burada anlatmış.
Seppuku hakkında herşeyi yazmış.
Yazarın kişiliğini belirleyen şu cümle kitabın 433.
sayfasından.
“Para, maddi şeyler için kullanılır, dürüstlükse seppuku ile korunur.
....Kirlenme konusunda titizlenirsen, hiçbir şey yapamazsın.
Gerçek bir erkek olamazsın İsao.” Okuyun bu kitabı lütfen, bağımsız da okunabilir ancak dörtlemenin ilk kitabı okunursa daha büyük keyif alınır.
ولذلك فمراجعني التالية تتعامل مع الرواية التي بين أيدينا كجزء من كل وليس كعمل منفصل.لماذا ثلج الربيع تحفة فنية في حين أن الجياد الهاربة عمل جيد وفقط؟أرى أن ذلك يرجع لثلاثة أمور، الأول: كيواكي بطل ثلج الربيع شخصية مركبة وجذابة لا تتكرر كثيراً في عالم الأدب في حين أن إيساو شخصية سطحية - رغم رومانتيكيتها - نجدها ليس فقط في أعمال أدبية متواضعة ولكن في حياتنا اليومية وبخاصة حالياً في عصر الثورة للثورة.
أما كتاب عصبة الريح الآلهية - مصدر إلهام إيساو - فهو سخف في سخف، إبتلعت صفحاته السبعين على مضض.أخيراً إن كنت قد أعجبت بثلج الربيع فلابد لك من قراءة الجياد الهاربة وإكمال الرباعية.
The Sea of Fertility by Yukio Mishima“The most complete vision we have of Japan in the twentieth century.”  -Paul Theroux On the morning of November 25th 1970, the three-time Nobel nominee and 45 year old Yukio Mishima (the pen name of Hiraoka Kimitake) finished The Decay of the Angel, the final book in his seminal Sea of Fertility tetralogy. It was published into the world much akin to John Kennedy Tool's A Confederacy of Dunces: as renowned for its literary merit, as it was for the strange cir
The Sea of Fertility by Yukio Mishima“The most complete vision we have of Japan in the twentieth century.” 		-Paul Theroux On the morning of November 25th 1970, the three-time Nobel nominee and 45 year old Yukio Mishima (the pen name of Hiraoka Kimitake) finished The Decay of the Angel, the final book in his seminal Sea of Fertility tetralogy.
Complete with a 100 page novel-within-a-novel, romanticized depictions of seppuku, assassination plots and the beginnings of a lengthy meditation on Buddhist transmigration of the soul, Honda narrates Japan through the increasingly polarized separation of the Japanese classes in the years before the outbreak of the war.
His life would be taken by HIV/AIDS.Runaway Horses touches some deep nerves.
The reviews lack the understanding about kendo and the refining of skill such that you reach the question whether one is as skilled with steel rather than wooden swords.What has changed since Mishima wrote Runaway Horses and staged his final event is technology.
This was lost to most adults until the events starting with Columbine High School (what happened and what they planned).
It was only with hindsight that lesser events in Springfield, OR or Paducah, KY (also high school boys).
Runaway Horses would not seem so implausible now.
Very much a foreshadowing of Mishima's own suicide in 1970, almost a script of the future event.Although the main character, Isao, is a reincarnation of the the protagonist in  Spring Snow, Kiyoaki, he's not as rich and interesting of a character.
However, there are also some beautifully described scenes of nature and, like  Spring Snow, many interesting psychological observations, which are embodied in a relatively large cast."Grasping the knife with his right hand, he pressed its point against his body, and guided it to the correct place with the fingertips of his left hand.
¿Existe algún libro de Yukio Mishima que no merezca cinco estrellas?
Un libro sobre el honor del samurai en relación a la adaptación de la Modernidad en el japón de la primera mitad del siglo XX, un libro sobre el peligro de la ideología radical y las posturas políticas radicales, un libro sobre lo flexible del concepto de pureza y un libro sobre individuos que parecen no encontrar un lugar en el mundo, en el mundo que les ha tocado quiero decir.
Mi único problema es que no poseo los siguientes dos números, de segunda mano es difícil de encontrar y nuevo es absurdamente costoso.
Isao looks to that as the ideal and from the moment he gives the pamphlet to Honda, you get the sense that he's doomed as well, no matter how hard the other man will try.But the novel really isn't written FOR Westerners and people without a basic working knowledge of Japanese histories and attitudes around that time period may be a bit lost in the beginning, because we're not given much context.
أن تجتمع علوم كبرى و ثرية من هذا النوع في كتاب واحد فهذا يدل على براعة الكاتب،فما بالك بجعلها قصة شي
The extreme right wing politics almost dragged this down to a 3 star rating, however the language, the allegory & metaphor as well as the narrative hook probably puts it at 5 stars. I'll average things out. Much preferred volume one of the tetralogy so let's hope they don't slip further as we head into 3 & 4.Not quite a Japanese Proust (as one reviewer claims) but up there in the monuments of world literature.
Kiyoaki'nin onca yoldan sonra bulabildiği tek şey 'Hayır' cevabı iken burada da bir Atlantis bulmayı hakeden emekten sonra toz toprak içinde sıradan bir şehir var elde.Bahar Karları'nda Kiyoaki'nin ölümünün ve aslında onun yirmi yıl sonra İsao olan ruhunun seppukusun samurayların shintosuyla örtüştüğünü düşünmek için bir sürü sebep var.Kutsal sayılan bir tepedeki ayinler ya da dillerinden düşmeyen çağlayanın altında yeni hayatta buluşma fikri zaten Mishima’nın neredeyse bütün kitaplarında ortak link.
I don't think Mishima meant to convince anyone with this novel and that is definitely a positive point for anyone not sharing his political opinions ;P It seems like most of the events described actually took place, so I learned a lot about Japan's history.
In that sense, it brought me more than Spring Snow.The trade-off being that less time is spent out of politics and at some point it started to take me more and more motivation to get through, but Mishima is definitely a great author and it shows: the plot keeps moving forward and the many secondary characters really make the story alive.

Certainly the best or second best Mishima novel I've read yet.
Reading this brings to light many questions for any reader who believes that any given set of ideas is important.
Someone who sympathizes with Isao's courage, passion, and purity, but ultimately considers it immature, yet nevertheless envies it because of its beauty and its transcendent character.
Given Mishima's life, you can also not help but read this as semi-autobiographical, though written before the fact.
It's another piece of his idealization of death, suicide, and martyrdom.
Uff...
While it is still good, it is definitely the weakest novel I have read so far from Mishima.
Nearly 150 pages.
All those pages were boring exposition and really lacked in character and brilliant writing.
However, the rest of the book is DEFINITELY the normal Mishima (amazing).
Even though the rest of the book did have greatness to it, it just took SO LONG to start that I can't really say that I loved this book.
I cannot give a book a 4 star rating for that, but I do still like this book.
Not as taken with this as I was with Spring Snow; I found it plodding and tedious. There are some soaring, memorable moments, especially when we get a little of Honda and Isao’s internal monologues, but I was not as impressed as I was with the first book in this series.
