https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/803171.Skippyjon_Jones
Where else would he glean these warped notions of Mexican culture from?When I read this book, I couldn't help but wonder if our protagonist was a byproduct of the author's ignorance, or of her brilliance.
On the other hand, perhaps this book is a brutally accurate depiction of how culture is diffused through the American population that refuses to look beyond the light therapy box in every living room across this country.
On the other end of the spectrum, these same cultures are depicted as foreboding sources of crime, threats to social order, once they enter our borders.
Skippy's fantasy is perpetuated by the endearing depiction of cultures.
This is the worst kind of "literature" to expose your children to. It's filled with stereotypes and fake accents. It's sad that Judy Schachner doesn't know any better.
Okay, I'm giving this five stars because I think it would make an absolutely outstanding read aloud book.
And I'm not the only one--it's won the EB White Read Aloud Book Award.
And also, this is the sort of book I would have loved as a kid who loved interesting words and sounds.
There are SO many fun-fun-fun things to say in this book!
Note, though, that there is some controversy about the book and that it presents negative stereotypes.
For more about the controversy, so you can decide for yourself if this is a book you want to share with your children, see here: http://msdecamp.blogspot.com/2008/06/...
Skippjon gets in trouble, sent to his room, thinks he's a chihuahua and all of a sudden he begins adding O to the end of his words to speak Spanish?
Making statements about rice and beans, because yes that's all Mexican people like to eat?Then they have a fiesta and siesta while the chihuahuas carry around maracas and mariachi hats?
Come on!I cannot imagine a person of Mexican descent liking this book, I'm deeply offended by it.
The mom in the beginning of the story is scolding him, and by the end she's hugging him for still disobeying.
Children seem to enjoy this book much more than myself.
They love the character of Skippyjon Jones-- a Siamese cat who thinks he is a Chihuahua.
I would agree that the play on words is worthwhile, but not at the expense of murdering the Spanish language.
No matter how much I try to lighten up about it, I believe it pokes a little to much fun at my cultural heritage.
I would use this book as a critical component in reading comprehension-- and ask the students if the author is fairly representing the hispanic culture.
This book is geared for Kindergarten-Second grade students.
While 1000+ GoodReads members seem to disagree, to me this book is rather offensive.
It may have received the E.
The racial stereotypes are awful (banditos -- really?!), the repeated reference to beans as if they are a defining characteristic of Latinos is insulting, and adding the letter 'o' and long 'ees' to random words to make them sounds more Spanish is disrespectful.
While the book was surely meant to be funny and cute, mocking an entire group of people, their culture, their food, and their language is not acceptable and encourages children to adopt false ideas about Mexicans and Latinos.
With such a strong familial identity, Skippyjon is free to try out different identities, including being a bird and a chihuahua.
He sings too.His mother calls Skippyjon lots of names.
My kids hate it when I call them "bongee bobos" from the well of my deep mother love.Mama Junebug Jones (bad names seem to be a family tradition) calls her naughty kitty:1.
Mr. CocopugsI want a mom like that.
I will leave you with a Skippyjon song "My name is Skippito Friskito (clap-clap) I fear not a single bandito (clap-clap) My manners are mellow I'm sweet like the Jell-O I get the job done, yes indeed-o (clap-clap)"
As an American of Mexican ancestry, who happened to be born and grew up along the Texas-Mexican border (and currently resides in the same border town of El Paso), I didn't find it too difficult to step beyond the controversy and the "lack of political correctness" that many adult readers find in this children's book to see how witty, cute and funny Skippyjon's antics really are.
If you have ever watched a movie or read a book where all rich people are mean and materialistic and agreed,...guess what you have stereotyped--not everyone of them is Scrooge!
I don't think I would find many non-hypocrites in this world when it comes to being offended by a stereotype!) Skippyjon Jones is a good little children's book about pretend.
This entire series is offensive and racist. It uses mock spanish and peddles racist stereotypes as funny. This is how racist stereotypes are taught to young children - by presenting them as funny. It's just not ok.
I'm not really sure why I liked this so much - but I did! It's a fun story with ADORABLE illustrations! Skippyjon's a cat with a vivid imagination and loves pretending to be various kinds of creatures. Also, there's a nice selection of Spanish words, and the author does a good job of letting you know what the Spanish word means, without actually writing "Uno = One." So it's more fun to learn.
I just read this to my daughter last night and it is brilliant. I had a fun time doing the Spanish accent he takes on in the book as Skipito and I think I enjoyed it more than my daughter :-) I definitely recommend this one!
Terribly offensive! I had the misfortune to hear the author read this, using a "Frito Bandito" voice for Skippyjon. Ugh.
When scenes are dominated by cool colors we see a siesta with darker blue and purple skies.
In another scene when the huge bumble bee passes overhead, the page is nearly covered by a light blue shadow cast by the bee.
When the bumble bee is punctured by Skippyjon’s sword the explosion is not only evident by the burst of lines suggesting the movement of beans flying everywhere.
Throughout the text, the dominate figure is Skippyjon and the bumble bee.
This is the only realistic drawing and emphasizes Skippyjon’s belief that he is not a Siamese kitten, but a Chihuahua instead.
If you're trying to raise a kid to learn about and respect the many cultures and people around them, this is not a book you need in your home.Just awful.
Someone gave this book to my half-Mexican, bilingual 3 year-old son for his birthday and said it was one of their favorites because of the Spanish words and phrases.
Even if it was a parody, which it is not, a 3 year-old is not picking up nuance like that (again, especially when it is non-existant).There are so many other choices for books that are hilarious when read, or that help kids learn another language, no need to waste time on this.
When I read the book to myself I can't help but think, "this story is ridiculous, and it makes no sense.
What I discovered is that when you read Skippyjon Jones aloud, the language and wordplay just pops to life.
I have to admit, that when read aloud, the story made a lot more sense to me, too, and it was pretty cute.
So, all in all, I have a new appreciation for Skippyjon Jones, and I'll look for more of these books to read to the kids.
Another Skippyjon Jones book, this time with no audio cd to help me out with the pronunciations.
But I did okay.
Many of the Spanish words used in this book were ones I knew.
(ie fiesta, amigo, siesta, etc.) And it was ever so fun to practice my Spanish accent with the kids.
Although when not rolling their eyes, they looked at me as if I was an idiot.
I didn't care.
Either way, these are wonderful books.
Besides teaching Spanish, it shows the value of having a good imagination, and the unconditional love of a mother who is ever exasperated.
Too cute! This one HAS to be read aloud, even if you are reading it by yourself! I absolutely love all the names in the story, especially the ones Skippyjon Jones' mother calls him: Mr. Kitten Britches, Mr. Fuzzy Pants, Mr. Fluffernutter, and Mr. Cocopugs. Other characters in the story are: Mama Junebug Jones, Mrs. Doohiggy, Ju-Ju Bee Jones, Jezebel Jones, Jilly Boo Jones, Don Diego, Poquito Tito, Pintolito, Rosalita, Tia Mia, and Alfredo Buzzito the Great Bumblebeeto!
I loved this when I first read it in college (I had roommates studying elementary education), but I always felt too uncomfortable with the accent to read it aloud myself. I'm embarrassed that I'm only just now realizing that's because it's a pretty insulting accent. I would definitely not want to read it to children.
I really like Skippito!
All things Skippyjon are good.
My oldest loves this book! Great story to expand his imagination.
What the hell?
i have been obsessed with this cat who thinks he's a dog for a while now & i am filled with joy every time i see these books at work so i bought two of them for my cousin's baby and i hope she enjoys them as much as i do
This was just a lot of fun.
SkippyJon Jones is a Siamese cat that wants to be a Chihuahua and has great adventures all while in this bedroom.
On his adventure, he saves his band of Chihuahua friends from a bad “Bumblebeeto.” This is a wonderful anthropomorphic picture book to read aloud.
The reader can have a lot of fun reading in a Spanish accent when SkippyJon becomes Skippito.
The book also contains lots of rhymes and is fun and interesting to hear.
This story could be used to teach students about rhymes, be a beginning source to get students interested in the Spanish language, and shows how the use of onomatopoeia can enhance aloud storytelling.
I think I enjoyed reading this book more than my kids enjoyed the book.
It's a fun book to read aloud.
It's fun to do the dramatic voices and the accents, but my little 4 year old daughter was a little creeped out by my attempts at the spanish accents.
=D I thought the book was really fun.
In fact, I rated this book higher than my 8 year old or my 4 year old.
I think they are going to enjoy his adventures more and more.
*Also, to really enjoy this book, you'll need to know a few basic words of Spanish ...
I can imagine children laughing out loud as they learn about Skippy's antics and thinking of him as a friend.
Designed for primary readers, it can be enjoyed as a laugh out loud whole class read or a book to be enjoyed again and again on a reader's own.In the reading classroom, teachers can use this book in two ways.
This book offers readers fluency practice to be able to read his dialogue like it sounds as if he is speaking.
It also offers learning in character motivation and how that helps to understand a story as well as how it effects fluent reading.
I wasn't crazy about this story the first time I read it.
Then I re-read it aloud to my cats and liked it a lot better (and they gave it 4 paws up).
That little Skippyjon Jones has quite the vivid imagination!
What I like best about the story, though, is how his mother, Mrs. Junebug Jones, deals with his behavior, and the cute nicknames she has for him--Mr. Kitten Britches, Mr. Fuzzypants, Mr. Fluffernutter, and Mr. Cocopugs.
Mothers love their kids even if they are a little strange.
Recommended for cat lovers and kids with vivid imaginations.
This was my first time ever picking up a Skippyjon Jones book, and I have to say - I think I am in love!
Very fun read-aloud book with lots of tongue-twisting, fun and creative rhymes, bright and attractive illustrations, and of course, starring an adorable and fearless feline who thinks he is a Chihuahua.
I love the sheer imagination that Skippyjon displays, and adored the little touches of family affection even as he is being scolded.
From an educational standpoint, I thought it was neat to introduce so many Spanish words and phrases that kids are bound to absorb when reading these books.
Love it!
This book is awesome. Skippyjon Jones is a Siamese cat convinced that he's actually a chihuahua. When he enters his closet, his imagination runs wild as he invents an adventure that involves a pack of Mexican chihuahuas that make him their leader, a bean-loving bumblebee bandit, and lots of silly songs. This book integrates lots of fun Spanish, some real and some whimsically made-up. The illustrations are delightful and the text invites the reader to giggle and sing along with the characters. Such fun!
