https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96259.Crush
"and the gentleness that comes,not from the absence of violence, but despitethe abundance of it."I read Richard Siken's poem "Wishbone" on the internet.
I've read many books, some of them have taught me about the world, about people, about feelings or ideas.
Words I was never able to find myself, but needed more deeply than I'd realised.I'll never stop reading this book, and that's the great thing with poetry, analyzing, understanding and interpreting and simply feeling it, is a neverending process.
"Tell me how all this, and love too, will ruin us.These, our bodies, possessed by light.
I felt like I had the wind knocked out of me after I read this. There's a thread of a story here, but it's abstract and shadowed. Almost a ghost of a story. What's left are the raw emotions of the actual experience, which is what great poetry is: distilling the massive events that make up a life until there's nothing left but the urgent parts, the ones that carry the meaning.
"Tell me about the dream where we pull the bodies out of the lakeand dress them in warm clothes again.How it was late, and no one could sleep, the horses running until they forget that they are horses.It's not like a tree where the roots have to end somewhere, it's more like a song on a policeman's radio,how we rolled up the carpet so we could dance, and the days were bright red, and every time we kissed there was another appleto slice into pieces.Look at the light through the windowpane. That
"Tell me about the dream where we pull the bodies out of the lakeand dress them in warm clothes again.How it was late, and no one could sleep, the horses running until they forget that they are horses.It's not like a tree where the roots have to end somewhere, it's more like a song on a policeman's radio,how we rolled up the carpet so we could dance, and the days were bright red, and every time we kissed there was another appleto slice into pieces.Look at the light through the windowpane.
Verse 7 of "You Are Jeff" by Richard Siken 2017 will be marked in my reading annals as re-discovering my love of poetry.
when will i get to FIGHT DICK and also when will i get to read this for the first time againanyway it's cool how u can basically know for sure that a person is straight™ if they claim they 1) don't understand why blood & death r such prominent themes in these poems and/or 2) didn't find any deeper meaning in them
Stop singing." -Road Music"It spins like a wheel inside you: green yellow, green blue,/green beautiful green./It's simple: it isn't over, it's just begun.
Unless you are a brilliant, brilliant poet, I don't want to read a whole collection of your poems that are set in a forest or come out of a panic or pine endlessly after a lover.
This is just one of those books that you can read all the way through and, the next day, not remember more than a handful of images or lines because there is too much junk crowding the beauty out.
When I started reading this I couldn't believe what I got myself into.I am not a poetry fan so some parts at the beginning cracked me up and I tried to find some sense in them and I failed.But later... Some parts... Most parts ... Literally broke my heart... And for those parts I am giving this 5 stars because I can't 4.5. QUOTISH SPOILERS (view spoiler)[If there was one thing I could save from the fire, he said, the broken arms of the sycamore, the eucalyptus still trying to climb out of the ya
(view spoiler)[If there was one thing I could save from the fire, he said, the broken arms of the sycamore, the eucalyptus still trying to climb out of the yard — your breath on my neck like a music that holds my hands down, kisses as they burn their way along my spine — or rain, our bodies wet, clothes clinging arm to elbow, clothes clinging nipple to groin — I’ll be right here.
Once again, I return to rating poetry on a scale of "how much of it did I understand?" This one's language is easy to follow and the entire thing is comprehensive and you can really see the emotions and angst, but still, I couldn't find any deeper meanings in the poems. Perhaps I couldn't relate to them, but for the majority of this, I wasn't impressed.My favorites from this collection: Little Beast, Litany in which Certain Things are Crossed Out, and You Are Jeff #24
His pace and image teach us fight from the first two pages how to read the work, and how to prepare yourself for the worlds of panic, death, and love which are to come.
His poems progress to a down tempo drum beat, and the skill in line break leaves the reader constantly moving forward, the combination forces us to digest and contemplate the words as they come, but never let up a moment for us to stop chewing.
The repetition of pacing and break builds on the down tempo into a culminating panic under the weight of body and the gravity of obsessive love.
This started off really well, but after a few poems I became detached, bored, confused by the metaphors (were they even metaphors?), and slightly irritated by the repetitive use of the same imageries.Blog ¦ Bloglovin’ ¦ Tumblr ¦ Instagram

We interrupt this broadcast to present you this breaking news:Your regularly scheduled programming will resume once the emotions of this reviewer have been properly boxed and tamed.  Poems: (view spoiler)[Scheherazade Tell me about the dream where we pull the bodies out of the lakeand dress them in warm clothes again.How it was late, and no one could sleep, the horses runninguntil they forget that they are horses.It’s not like a tree where the roots have to end somewhere,it’s more like a song on
Tell me about the dream where we pull the bodies out of the lakeand dress them in warm clothes again.How it was late, and no one could sleep, the horses runninguntil they forget that they are horses.It’s not like a tree where the roots have to end somewhere,it’s more like a song on a policeman’s radio,how we rolled up the carpet so we could dance, and the dayswere bright red, and every time we kissed there was another appleto slice into pieces.Look at the light through the windowpane.
Can you imagine what it would be like to know that your liver would be eaten from your body day after day?
At least, love can feel like a fire.) Every poem in this book is essentially the same.
I don’t want to make any assumptions here about how that has influenced the content, but I will say that the poems read like a lover trying to move on from something that is, well, crushing.
It may be that moving forward requires a lot of going round in circles.
And we know where those circles are going to take us.
There are many names in the history  but none of them are ours.4He had green eyes, so I wanted to sleep with him green eyes flicked with yellow, dried leaves on the surface of a pool--You could drown in those eyes,I said.
I wanted to take him homeand rough him up and get my hands inside him, drive my body into his like a crash test car.
like millionth re-read: aug/22/2016fckinng kill me. i'm still too in deep w/ this shit. do i really need to say anything? this is my fave poetry collection. i adore richard siken's way with words and i cry every time i read it.original read: jan/30/2014
The Yale Younger Poets prize is the oldest annual literary award in the United States. The competition is open to any American under forty years of age who has not previously published a volume of poetry.The Thom Gunn Award is an annual literary award, presented by Publishing Triangle to honour works of gay male poetry. First presented in 2001 as the Triangle Award for Gay Poetry, the award was renamed in memory of American poet Thom Gunn, the award's first winner, following his death in 2004.
26)Contrary to the "confessional poet" label, the poet adopts poetic personae, names other than his own, to create a distance from the personal, from the confessional, as in the case of "Max" (in The Torn-Up Road); or writes in the second person, attributing the name to the reader, as in the case of "Henry" (in The Dislocated Room and Wishbone); or a narrative driven account of a person, who may be many people, named "Jeff" (in You Are Jeff)...Henry, he's saying.
56)(Significantly, Siken addresses the names of things and the naming of things and the recollection of named things in Saying Your Name.)One poem in particular, Straw House, Straw Dog, with its use of repetition and, more significantly, its derangement of the repeated phrases, elicits comparison to Louis Zukofsky's Julia's Wild...I watched TV.
it’s fitting that this book is called crush with how it crushes you and then you’re left lying on your bed at 3am wondering who you were before you knew these words.in other words, it was fucking amazing.
Well, HONESTLY speaking I started this book with really high hope's. Richard Siken is pretty much an spectacular writer, but this book was JUST not for me! The style and writing was awesome, if I was a critic I would've rated this book a 5star, but NO I am NOT a critic and I will only give my precious stars to the book I love!!  "Tell me how all this, and love too, will ruin us.These, our bodies, possessed by light. Tell me we'll never get used to it."  But some poetry hit home!! Like literally
Well, HONESTLY speaking I started this book with really high hope's.
So, I did and here we are giving this book a 2 Star, JUST because I liked some poetry, and DAMN what a poetry that was!
“Tell me how all this, and love too, will ruin us.These, our bodies, possessed by light.Tell me we'll never get used to it.” 
Tell me how all this, and love too, will ruin us.These, our bodies, possessed by light.
Tell me how all this, and love too, will ruin us.These, our bodies, possessed by light.
These were the moment I LOVED this book very much.
قبل از اینکه بخونمش اسمش باعث شد کتابِ لوسی به نظرم بیاد، ولی واقعا خوب بود.یادم باشه کتابها رو از روی اسمشون جاج نکنم دیگه : )
قبل از اینکه بخونمش اسمش باعث شد کتابِ لوسی به نظرم بیاد، ولی واقعا خوب بود.یادم باشه کتاب‌ها رو از روی اسمشون جاج نکنم دیگه : )
First, I found this fragment from "Planet of Love" on the internet: I didn't pay much attention to the feelings it invoked the first time.
Fact is, I well and truly loved this collection and I am sure I will be coming back to it over and over again.
Highly recommended for those who love or like poetry, for those who are curious about it, for those who enjoy Glbt, for those who want something complex and simple at the same time and for those who like to try out reading something new.
I like the way Siken lays his words out on the page and I love the words themselves.
But sometimes I felt like I didn't understand what he was writing so beautifully about, as though it was a letter to someone in the know and I was reading with prying eyes.I'd love to understand more fully what some of it means, poetry like this tends to go right over my head.
I'd love to go over this book with a Smart Poetry Person and a fine tooth comb, or climb inside Siken's head and see the workings of his mind.
Heart-breakingly beautiful.
Reading this collection of poems allowed me to see it clearly.
'Tell me about the dream where we pull the bodies out of the lake and dress them in warm clothes again.' begins the first poem and the rest proceeds like a dream that is also a nightmare.
Seemed like specific moments.
Full of moments that are injected with lust, fear, desire, obsession, panic, and anxiety.People who claim not to like poetry, after reading a single poem from Richard Siken’s Crush (I hope so) will change poetry for them, because it is something that is passionate, tender, and complicated, but also so 
In an older study advice post on how to approach poetry, I wrote that a good poet should be able to make you feel something, whether you fully understand the work or not:Often poems are not so much vessels of information, but more like an experience.
I have read Crush two more times since then and I feel like I have a better grasp of it now, but it still leaves me staring out the window, at a complete loss for words.…But let’s give it a go anyway.
Brought to you courtesy of Reading Project 2015.This particularly volume of poetry is profoundly important to me, I can't do it justice in a couple of Reading Project paragraphs.Also I have thoughts! and feels! and, uh, things.And writing about poetry is difficult at the best of times.So Imma going to come back to this.
A million stars.

I kind of figured it was a reoccurring theme type thing, which I usually grow fond of, but it gave off a feel more like the author couldn't think of other words to use.
They were used so often, though, and I think any edge that was supposed to come from the book is only perceived by those who get the feeling of edginess immediately upon associating it with those words.But a lot of people really really love the book.
"My applejack, my silent night, just mash your lips against me. We are all going forward. None of us are going back." that was a beautiful book. a new favorite.
"A man takes his sadness down to the river and throws it in the river but then he’s still left with the river. A man takes his sadness and throws it away but then he’s still left with his hands."
“'Kiss me.' Here I am leaving you clues. I am singing now while Rome burns. We are all just trying to be holy. My applejack, my silent night, just mash your lips against me. We are all going forward. None of us are going back.”
