https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39359728-the-king-must-die
I just wanted to make one thing clear.
Theseus is being hailed as a hero and a stand up guy.
This douche seduced Ariadne, promised her marriage, and then abandoned her on the island of Naxos.
He literally ditched her on an uninhabited island and sailed away.
Without her, he would never have defeated Minotaur.
According to some versions of the story, she was rescued by the Greek God Dionysus.
They fell in love and lived happily ever after.
So there's a silver lining to the whole fiasco.As for Theseus, he continued to be a douchebag.
He had, among his other misdeeds, kidnapped Helen.
I also consider it something of a return to the love affair I had in my youth with the Hellenic myths which seemed to fall to the wayside as I grew older and other interests crowded them out.Renault takes as her subject the early Hellenic expansion among the Greek archipelago when the ancient chthonic mother-goddess religions of the autochthonous peoples (the “earthlings”) were being displaced by the more patriarchal sky-god religions of the invaders.
From his early victories and society-changing actions Theseus is finally driven to the event that will cement his name in the history and myths of his people forever: the yearly tribute of youths from Athens to the kingdom of Minos in Crete.
"Many-formed are the gods; and the end men look for is not the end they bring."- Mary Renault, The King Must DieA nice, detailed historical fiction (well, let's call it mytholigical fiction, yes?) about Theseus, the founding hero of Athens.
Renault takes many of the Labors of Theseus and weaves them with the stories of Theseus, Aegeus, and Medea, and Theseus, King Minos, and the Minotaur.Structurally, it reminded me a bit of Knausgaard's book 'A Time For Everything' where he takes the flood myths of genesis and humanizes them.
Both Mnausgaard and Renaut share the same gift for seeing the men (and women) behind the myth; of deconstructing what the history might have looked like that created these origin myths.
I love you, prideful, arrogant, honorable, brave, noble, horny all the time Theseus.
I was amazed by how this portrayal of ancient Greece hinges on the description of specific practices. How Theseus is treated in formal and personal situations, how he expects to be treated, and what happens he enters into cultural contexts foreign to him all do so much to bring the world to vivid life. I learned about how far you can get by writing short insights into expectations of who does what and how.
My memory is rather hazy, but I think that Renault did a remarkably lovely job of formulating the myth into a plausible tale.I had to love Theseus’ young-man enthusiasm, his gung-ho attitude, and his willingness to plunge into whatever the Gods presented to him and attempt to succeed at it, whether it is wrestling, chasing bandits, governing, or acrobatics.
We just take Theseus’ word about what he is experiencing when he receives communication from the deity—it remains his personal experience, not requiring the reader to join him in his faith.In addition, I found Renault’s version of the shift from matriarchal to patriarchal society in the ancient world to be believable.I can see where I will be revisiting some of the classical tales in the near future, to restore my memories and prepare to read more of Renault’s charming fiction.
This book was assigned to me in high school, and after that I quickly read every historical novel by Renault I could get a hold of.
This isn't to the fore in this particular book focusing on the mythic figure of Theseus (probably why it was considered tame enough to be assigned to me in my Catholic High School), but I remember in my teens her depiction of a place and era that put no negative evaluation on homosexuality in novels such as The Last of the Wine and Fire from Heaven was a revelation to me, that yes, the past is a different country.
And this was, in some ways: realistic up to a point, detailed, exciting at times...I just really didn't like Theseus, the narrator and central character.
I thought he was smug, and it rankled, especially when he was smug about breaking women's power.
There are a few positive female characters -- his mother, some of the bull leapers -- but really all the time it's an attack on the power women wield.
It claims to acknowledge the importance of that female power, and perhaps if things were different with Ariadne, it would have, but her doll-like aspect, her childlike disconnection...
One of the arcs is in the way that the setting becomes ever more metropolitan; we begin in Theseus' homeland, a bit of a provincial backwater of a kingdom to be honest, moving on to the city of Athens which is a glittering jewel of the Peloponnese as portrayed by Renault at this period, and finally Theseus ends up on the highly developed island of Krete.
I started this novel more as a duty than as enjoyment, but was soon plunged into the world of Bronze Age Greece.
Three bulls are waiting for you, son of Aigeus: The Earth Bull, the Man Bull, and the Bull from the Sea."Her prophecy begins to be fulfilled when he becomes part of tribute to Crete; he travels there with a band of young people from Athens and Eleusis.
After he kills the Minotaur, he and many other bull-dancers escape Crete to Naxos.
I liked the author's taking elements from the myth, such as the Minotaur, the Labyrinth and Theseus's leaving Ariadne on Naxos and using them in her story in new, logical, completely unexpected ways.
I have meant to read her for years and am so pleased to have found a wonderful writer with a great deal of scholarship and intelligence backing up her fiction.The King Must Die is the first of two novels covering the life of Theseus, a legendary hero of ancient Athens.
I loved having Theseus fleshed out as it were and the daily world of ancient Athens and Crete made real.
The blurb on the back reads as follows:Brave, aggressive, tough, proud, and highly sexed, Theseus faces danger after danger and overcomes them all.His adventures will take you into a world of primitive orgies, sparkling jewels and gleaming bodies -- and with Theseus you will live through the hot fights and swift passionate loves of pagan times.Now I ask you, with a blurb THAT GOOD, does it even matter what the book is like?
Swift, passionate loves of pagan times!Recommended: Oh, why not?
The King Must Die is the tale of Theseus told as if it were realistic, historical fiction.
However, the author introduces more plausible accounts for the instances throughout the myth.
I really enjoyed how the author tells this story, but maybe that was because of my bias and soft-spot for all historical fiction.
I recommend this book to anybody interested in Greek mythology and the tale of Theseus, or anybody looking for something fun or relaxing to read.
Also, there’s a summary of the myths regarding Theseus at the end of this book.
This is the story of Theseus, a prince of Athens who allied his country with its Spartan neighbors and then traveled to Crete to challenge the minotaur.
The author, Mary Renault, stays true to the legend, introducing her heroic main character as a young, insecure boy and following him through teenage trials and into adulthood.
She breathes life into his character, showing the weaknesses as well as the strengths of a charismatic man, one with the humility of a true hero.Renault's Theseus relies on his intuition as well as his brawn and brains.
I highly recommend this book to Grecophiles, travelers, and readers who appreciate the timeless current of history.
Yeah, I'm pretty stupid.I was familiar with the legend of Theseus (well, the main bits) but I was surprised to read something different.
At the very end of the book, there is a summary of the actual legend and I was like "Ah, that's what I remember!" Of course, some parts stayed true, such as Theseus slaying the Kerkyon and Medea deceiving King Agieus then fleeing.
He was actually a likable character, and I don't know if I like that.
But if Renault had really wanted to show (or should I say create) a different, good side to Theseus, I guess I can deal with that.
‘For a man in darkness, there is only one god to pray to.’ ‘The King Must Die’ is a historical novel by Mary Renault, first published in 1958.
Set in Ancient Greece: Troizen, Corinth, Eleusis, Athens, Knossos in Crete, and Naxos, it traces the early life and adventures of Theseus, one of the heroes in Greek mythology.
He does not know whether he will survive, or whether he will return to Athens to see his father.‘It is a saying of the Bull Court that the longer you live there, the longer you may.’In this book, Theseus is made real by Ms Renault’s knowledge of archaeology, culture and history.
I will give the book the positive that the plot picks up a bit about halfway through, when Theseus becomes a bull dancer in Crete.
This was particularly bothersome because she often hid an important plot point in the middle of a lengthy description.
I don't need this from a piece of historical fiction that I'm purely reading for fun.Then we have the fact that our main character, Theseus, is unlikeable.
He bored me.So I'm afraid I'm not going to waste any more of my life reading this book, it's just not worth it.I'm going against popular opinion, so perhaps you'll love it.
I rarely say this in reviews, fan as I am of first person narratives, but I believe that a third person omniscient perspective would have worked far better in this instance; in using Theseus’ voice, there is an unmistakable tinge of modernity which does not quite ring true, or suit the overall tone of the piece.Sadly, The King Must Die was not as engaging as I had hoped, either; I had a feeling before I began that I would probably love the book, what with its use of mythology and history, but I simply did not, and this disappointed me somewhat.
The King Must Die is an admirable work, and I can certainly understand why Renault wanted to add depth to the myth of Theseus, but I must admit that I far preferred Madeline Miller’s The Song of Achilles.
This lyrical retelling of the legend of Theseus manages to add a sense of realism (circa 1958 archaeological evidence) without sacrificing the essential magic of ancient Greece.
For archaeology and ancient history enthusiasts, Renault includes an Author’s Note explaining her approach to Theseus’s story, a short but useful bibliography, and a solid version of the legend itself.
I’ve already got The Bull From the Sea (this book’s immediate sequel) loaded on my Kindle.One side note: Hunger Games fans who haven’t read this book yet should treat themselves as soon as possible.
I've just come across this. I read this book years ago as it was one of my father's books. I must try and get a copy of it.Ah Theseus!
However, the reader should be aware that Renault decided to change the main events of the myth (view spoiler)[(Minos being a recluse and a leper, the Minotaur replacing Minos in tossing the ring in the sea, the sad excuse for leaving Ariadne in Naxos, even the famous thread is not used to find the Minotaur in the labyrinth) (hide spoiler)].
In the appendix at the end of the book the author explains some of her choices (view spoiler)[for example her Theseus has the ability to sense imminent earth quakes (hide spoiler)] but she doesn’t provide a reason for the more important changes in the story, perhaps she wanted to surprise the reader?
If you have not discovered Mary Renault’s historical novels, you are in for a treat, and I envy you your discovery.
There is much more in the way of plot, but that’s not the main part of Renault’s magic.
One impressive feat of reimagining is the way the author gives her characters a historical backdrop of their own – the previous races and tribes of humans who lived there before them.
I suppose the historical novelist is in a dilemma: to create a lost world, she must bring its beliefs to life, and in that, Renault succeeds brilliantly.
My opinion of this book was highly unfavorable until the main character ended up as a bull dancer on the isle of Crete.
Or perhaps I just became interested enough to overlook the overly-affected dialogue and constant emphasis on Theseus's maleness.
There are plenty of female writers out there who can write convincing male characters without having them metaphorically cupping their junk on every other page.
(I'm sorry, but that's the impression I got from the first part of the book.) The move to the action of the Bull Court shifts the emphasis from "My main character got them man-parts" to "Holy Zeus!
Mary Renault takes the Greek Legend of Theseus and the Minotaur; combines it with real architectural findings; adds in her own literary skill..
and makes it bigger and better in the telling.My own telling of the Theseus legend would mostl likely cover half a page.
Renault has made it a 350 page adventure that is half historical-fiction and half swords and sorcery fantasy.The style of thing reminds me a fair bit of Michael Moorcock's Elric series.
I thought it was very clever how all the fantastic elements of the myth got explained to be more realisitc and still make sense.
I read this whole thing pretty fast but I really tore through the end to see how Theseus would leave Ariadne (thousand year old myths don't get spoiler alerts) without being a total moron.
It's the girl!
Doh!" The way it was explained (ok, that is a spoiler) only mae him slightly douchey, which is pretty par for the course, no?
So glad I finally read this.
For the boys and the girls.
I read this as a young teenager. It showed me that the pleasures of Oz could play out in a real place, distanced by time. With the added plus of lissome bare-breasted acrobats. I could taste Ancient Crete. In college, I worked on a dig on the Ionian coast, excavating ancient Sardis, where King Midas once lived, and the taste still lingered.
Seeing that I love Madeline Miller's novels and that Mary Renault is also known for having written Greek mythology-based fiction of outstanding quality, I set out to compare the two.
No qualms about the writing per se, in fact Renault's vocabulary is top-notch and the whole book was visibly well-researched, but her storytelling skills leave me completely cold.
All of the epic locations, people, objects and pieces of lore brought into play by Mary Renault throughout this novel are rich with legend and call to your sense of wonder, but then as Captain Obnoxious introduces them at length to you, always in relation to himself of course, he somehow manages to rob them of their magic.
A stunningly evocative retelling of classic Greek legends - it's almost possible to touch, smell and taste everything that Renault describes. Read among the fertile hills of Turkey, buzzing with the same insects, glowing with the same sunshine.
And under it, over it, through our blood and skulls and entrails, the bellow of a the gong.”- from Mary Renault’s “The King Must Die"Mary Renault weaves a tale so mythic in scope, that the story itself is only outshone by her fabulous prose.
Renault takes the myth and works her narrative like Hephaestus works metal; into a believable and credible story.
Theseus believes fully in their existence and his fate that's tied to their whims.
The seed is still, when first it falls into the furrow.” Like Theseus’ Grandfather, Renault prose plants seeds which grow over time to expose their full meaning and understanding.
The King Must Die by Mary Renault is a re-telling of the Greek myth of Theseus.
The book was first published in 1958, so the muddled syntax may be attributed to its date of publication since writing styles have changed since then.
However, books published even a few centuries before this did not suffer from the same problem.
He was flat out boring.Reynault’s lackluster portrayal of Theseus coupled with her writing style of unnecessarily convoluted syntax and unorthodox use of punctuation for no apparent reason detracted from what would otherwise have been an interesting re-telling of the myth.
