https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15847717-young-zaphod-plays-it-safe
I first read this story in the Ultimate Hitchhiker omnibus, about twenty years ago.
Though it was enjoyable to read a new Zaphod story, if brief, the denouement left me totally and completely baffled.
(hide spoiler)]My reaction?To misquote Adams himself:"And this is very odd, because without that fairly simple and obvious piece of knowledge, nothing that ever happened [in this story] could possibly make the slightest bit of sense."
In the original, which ended up being omitted in many later editions, the thing was actually called a "Reagan." "A kindly looking man with lots of pleasant laugh lines around his face" and "seemed to be babbling gently to himself" and who was "totally benign, which is what makes him so dangerous" and there is "nothing he will not do if allowed, and there is nothing he will not be allowed to do."It's obvious that Adams only wrote this short story to express his political views.
First off there is some confusion around this story.
Goodreads seems to show it as being a 146 page novella, but the version I read was little more than a short story.
I double checked with my B&N Omnibus edition and it's also a short story there.
Online, it seems many other people had discoverd the same thing.
It looks like the 146 page count is for some sort of collected shorts and not a singular work.
Unless of course it's 146 pages in some higher dimension and we only see a small portion of it in our paltry 4 dimensions:)
This is another story where time-travel takes a back seat to the main story, but this was still a fairly fun read.Zaphod has been hired by two officials from the Safety and Civil Reassurance Administration to find a space craft that had crashed into the ocean of this particular planet - a space craft that would one hundred percent never crash.
I think it would make more sense, and I now how funny a writer Douglas Adams is.And if you have read The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy, I am going to guess that you would like this story.Be sure to check out my fellow time-travelers' reviews!Alesha EscobarH.M. JonesLaurel’s Writing Desk
This doesn't give anything to the story, but is funny and sometimes kind of gross and i like that :D
The final book (book #5) or should I say the prelude to The Hitchhikers Guide To The Galaxy....where the end is just the beginning. ^_^
An enjoyable short story. I have no idea what it had to do with anything, but it was enjoyable to read nonetheless.
It's comic and it's hitchhikers' guide to the galaxy. And it contains a young Zaphod. So it is weird, funny, dangerous and nonsense. But perfectly safe. And dangerous.Nice reading mostly, except for the vomiting part, for which the author apoligizes.Nice reading for the fans, frustrating it does not seem to have a goal, or a real ending at that.
Na povídku jsem narazil kdysi při čtení knihy Divodějní, ale pointa mi už vypadla. Dnes při dočítání série Stopařova průvodce jsem se k ní znovu dostal a jako jednohubka je to povedené. Stylové zakončení celé věci :)
"You’re one hundred percent positive that the ship which is crashed on the bottom of this ocean is the ship which you said you were one hundred percent positive could one hundred percent positively never crash?" A good short story about a character not really seen following the first book...2 🌟
This was just ok. I've always really liked Zaphod's character, and so it was interesting to have a little prequel about him. The bit about mining the past was awesome, but the rest was nothing special. Reading some other reviews it makes it clear that this short story was written just for Douglas Adams to make a political statement. I read it because it was included in my Ultimate Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, and it's very short, but otherwise it doesn't add anything to the series.
The story is fun and mild unless you open its Wikipedia article and see it ended differently in the original text. After that, the story is perfectly perfect because it perfectly fits Adams' humorously intelligent style.
looks like i've read this before from the ultimate hitchhiker's guide
Little more than a collection of paradoxes, but there were some parts of it that I liked. Like this bit: "The two officials waited calmly. They coughed slightly to help pass the time."
It seems the original text ended with He also heard the official from the Safety and Civil Reassurance Administration issue instructions to the effect that the missing capsule contained a "Reagan" and that the planet in ZZ9 Plural Z Alpha must be made "perfectly safe."whereas my copy shortens it to He also heard the official from the Safety and Civil Reassurance Administration issue instructions that the planet in ZZ9 Plural Z Alpha must be made "perfectly safe." (hide spoiler)]A simple case of censorship ruins the story.

I was so very confused.
I was so very confused.
(And this is the sort of confusion I get when nothing makes sense, not the Hitchhiker's Guide sort of confusion).
I decided to do some digging only to find out that the edition I read was censored!
(This is why I'm not a fan of censorship)With censorship, this novella gets one star from me.
Without the censorship it gets three.
But, because I had to go through the additional pain of research (I get that enough at my job, thank you very much), I'm ending this review with two stars.
I just read another review that says, in essence, that the crucial line that connects this story to the Hitchhiker's Guide universe was cut out in editing. And Douglas Adams himself, upon finding this out, was basically like, "Well, yeah. It wouldn't make any sense without that."I'd like to think they'd put it back in. On the other, hand, having it this way really reinforces the idea of the whole series, which is that the universe is mostly random and nobody knows what the fuck they're doing.
Storia troppo breve per poter scrivere una recensione esaustiva.Non succede nulla di particolarmente interessante in questo prequel, a parer mio. L’autore ha voluto introdurre il personaggio di Zaphod e le sue 4 teste. Non vedo molto altro in questa storia.
This was a fun and super quick addition to the HGTTG and I enjoyed it quite a bit. It was super short but a ton of fun. Zaphod is such a great character and I cannot wait to wrap up the remainder of this series :)
Young Zaphod Plays it Safe by Douglas AdamsAbsurd and quirky. Note his reference to Ronald “Reagan”.“The craft that wasn’t a lobster dived directly to a depth of two hundred feet, and hung there in the heavy blueness..”“OK, so the guy is cool, but... I mean own up, this is barking time, this is major lunch, this is stool approaching critical mass, this is... this is... total vocabulary failure!”. . .
It was a nice short story, but it didn't add anything to the rest of the series. It was like 4/5 pages long, so I don't know why Goodreads says it is 146 pages. It was nice to read something about Zaphod again, because he didn't appear much in book 4. Hopefully he is there again in book 5!
I'm guessing there must be more to this story that connects with a later book that I have not read yet. It still has Douglas Adams' signature humor and wit and was enjoyable for such a short read. Made me interested in reading more of the series.
waste...
Ronald Reagan
I read this short story because it was in the Ultimate Hitchhiker’s Guide. It’s alright. Not my favorite from Douglas Adams.
The last sentence was deleted. Read the original version to get the joke.
Lobster lobster lobster.Truly miss his comic genius!
It took me a really long time to figure out that this is an extended Reagan joke and then I forgot and then I re-read it and had to look it up and re-realize it.
Me gustó conocer a un Zaphod joven, aunque confieso que tuve que buscar la referencia del final.
