https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102953.Preacher_Volume_3
It looks like Robert Langdon has nothing on Ennis!
And Ennis beat him to the punch, no?
Pretty delicious!
I'm probably gonna gorge myself on these comics until I get as big as that fat man with the idiot.
:)Seriously though, Cassidy makes for a wonderful damsel in distress and he sure can take a lot of punishment, too.
Even better was the tiny guest appearances of god, this time moving on from Tulip and giving Cass a little ugly heart-to-heart.
lolAll told, extremely entertaining and obviously nothing scares Ennis.
Total no-holds-barred glorious shite.
Not for the faint of heart or those who regularly clean their tongues with bars of soap.
Here we have the ongoing journey of Custer, trying to (literally) find God and rescue his friend, the vampire Cassidy.
He's been taken by religious fanatics who are trying to lure Custer to them.
But Custer ditches her like an ass to go off and rescue Cassidy alone because he doesn't want her to get hurt.
He still pretty much treats her as just the girlfriend.So Cassidy gets tortured like crazy in this, but it's obvious he was going to make it.The seraphim/angel that boinked the demon (dad of the half demon half angel thing that is inside Custer) is back.
As Cassidy is being tortured in the Grail’s heavily secured complex by a castrated psychopath, we learn more about why Starr has been organizing a coup within the Grail’s ranks.
When Jesse confronts Starr and the Grail’s leader, he learns a great deal about the Genesis entity that escaped Heaven and bonded to him.
But if going up against an international conspiracy and a dozens of heavily armed guards wasn’t enough, Jesse will also have to deal again with the Saint of Killers, the deadliest person ever seen in all of creation.
Sure, it’s by Garth Ennis and Steve Dillon, both of whom are brilliant comics creators, but I feel Preacher is mostly an excuse for Ennis and Dillon to shout and swear and do all manner of silly gross things for the hell of it, rather than tell this amazing story.Proud Americans opens with a one-shot story of Jesse’s dad in Vietnam and is a fairly unremarkable piece.
Meanwhile, Cassidy is tortured by Starr while we meet the head of the Grail, the morbidly obese Allfather, and the Son of God himself.
Meanwhile we’re treated to a load of tedious drivel by Starr as he explains - at length - about the Grail and it’s aims, while Ennis does his best to pointlessly shock the reader with juvenile humour.
I was looking forward to read this third volume and see the fight between Jesse and the Grail.There is a lot of background stories in this book, starting with a chapter about Jesse’s father, in Vietnam, (view spoiler)[with John Wayne, in flesh and blood, like special guest start (hide spoiler)].
Tulip has a little part, in my opinion, but she proves to be a very strong woman (be careful, preacher!).(view spoiler)[There is a funny scene, where Starr show to Jesse a case that contains Grail's plans and personal effects, one of which is a sex toy (bad guy, Starr!) (hide spoiler)]The last part of the book is about Cassidy and his youth in the first twenty years of this century.
Of COURSE Ennis would find an excuse to weave a Vietnam story into this book.
I suppose it gives a *little* perspective on Jesse, showing us what his daddy was like, but boy does that thread feel weak.
It's like Ennis and Dillon finally gave me permission to blaspheme to my heart's content.
THAT was the big revelation when I first read this series - why I friggin devoured it, along with the rich characters, weird plots and mega-violence.
Compared to the capes books I'd read as a kid, this was a revelation.Favourite character of this book?
Best story told between characters?
Proud Americans is a pretty big deal.
In Proud Americans, we're given a bit of a back story behind Starr's hatred for their groups leader as well as their ridiculous plans involving a direct decedent of Jesus Christ.Also, Cassidy is still being held captive and is hoping for the return of his good buddy Jesse, hoping he'll come to his rescue.
Jesse however, is struggling with the thought of putting Tulip in ever increasing danger and knowing what lies ahead, he decides to make a controversial decision.Somewhere in there, we're given an origin story for Cassidy.
This volume was broken into three very separate parts -- the first was a flashback to Jesse's father's time in Vietnam, the second was a continuation of The Grail plot, and the third was a flashback to Cassidy's past.
The two flashbacks were great, helping to give depth to the main characters and flesh out their motivations, but the real highlight was the middle part -- Jesse rescuing Cassidy from The Grail.
Just when I thought this series couldn't get any more violent/absurd/awesome, it went and topped itself.
It was pulpy, and didn't give the art the same pop the earlier volumes had.
Proud Americans is the third installment of the Preacher series and it’s just as ballsy as those that came before.
It’s a nice reminder not only of friendship and loyalty, but also reflects Jesse’s life as it is now--having to do “crazy shit to survive” and realizing when push comes to shove who you are at the core and who you can rely on.
Standing at the top of the Empire State building, Cassidy shares with Jesse his own story: how he was turned, the family he left behind, the friends he made in the new world.
4.0 stars. Volume three in the ground-breaking Preacher series by Garth Ennis. Ennis maintains the very high level of quality he set with the first two installments and I am looking forward to reading the next installment. Recommended!!
Review in Volume 9.
I’m loving this series of books. Storyline is consistent and the artwork is gorgeous. I’m completely hooked.
Another good volume. I have to say though I was a bit bored by the Cassidy - centric stories.
Like I can't tell if Ennis actually thinks Jesse is in the right [spoiler alert, he's not, he's being an ass] or if he's supposed to be this fundamentally unlikable at this point???
I mean I think to be fully immersed in Preacher you have to buy into the whole Jesse/Tulip romance and while I was falling for it like you would not believe at 18, now I'm just like girl, leave his ass.
Also I don't think there was literally a SINGLE other woman in this volume besides Tulip and she's only even in half of it since Jesse lies to her and leaves her behind ~to protect her~.
I continue to adore this series... but the books are offensive enough I'm not even going to attempt to figure out who to recommend them to. Perhaps it's safest to say if you like the television show give the books a try... but keep a finger on the button for the escape hatch until you find out if these are right for you or not because things the tv series can only hint at the books revel in.
Back to being great. This was a lot of fun to read. A added complexity to the story a old as the hills, but potentially devastating to our band of three.I love the artwork in this series and the story of very strong.
I guess I gotta be more attentive when putting in requests for these volumes at the library.While some might complain that this volume was predominantly made up of backstory, I thought it was well-timed after the first two volumes, Gone to Texas and Until the End of the World, because it added a lot of depth of not just Jesse Custer, but a really enlightening look back at the life of Cassidy before he met up with Custer and Tulip.The book starts off with an interlude from the main story, as Jesse crosses paths with a Vietnam vet at an airport bar who was great friends with Jesse's father during the war.
The second part continues the main arc as Jesse attempts to rescue Cassidy from the Grail.
The third story is about Cassidy and his backstory.I will say again that these collections are not intended for young children.
I did not enjoy this collection as much as the first two.
The problem was the stories that did not deal with the main arc.
The main story was the best part of this collection and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
We meet new characters like the Allfather who was terrific and disgusting at the same time.
Proud Americans revolve around Custer rescuing Cassidy from the hands of the Grail.
There were some moments that I literally fell asleep whule reading the book while there were many parts that I cannot stop myself from reading it.Here we witness Cassidy's transformation from an Irish revolutionary to a cold-blooded vampire, something that I really don't care about but wouldn't mind reading anyway.
We also discovered some of the Grails well-kept secrets, plus its centuries-long mandate of protecting the holy bloodline.Preacher continues to inject blasphemous elements with an overly obese man and a retarded boy, but once you get over it, it really is a ridiculously funny read.
Ennis doesn't give a f*ck with how offensive Preacher is.
I mean I could find more offensive comics as I am sure worst ones are out there, but this is one hell of a comic.
Again, it has everything from graphic violence to copious amounts of swearing, as well as some nudity and everything in between.
If a religious person read this, they would be VERY offended as the writers of this comic are not even a bit shy from offending just about everyone including God. I am not religious and sometimes even I think they could tone it down with swearing and offensive content but than again, that is exactly what makes Preacher AWESOME!!
Disturbing, perverse, funny as hell, blasphemous! I felt like this issue ran a little long, but it does seem to be setting up for something big down the road. I was happy that Cassidy's origin story was finally revealed!
You will fall for the main characters in this one for sure.Now I am starting to see what everyone raves about with the series, Preacher.I must admit, the first two which set up the story was a lot to take on at first.
Now, in Vol. 3, we get to see how the characters came to be in the conditions and situations they are in.
That being said, since I liked this one so much, I am curious if I were to go back and reread the first two if my opinion of the ratings on them would change?
I also loved the old school comic book pages!
Y ya cuando me han juntado a personajes como Herr Starr, El Santo de los Asesinos o el Papa D'Aronique junto a Jesse, Tulip o Cassidy para dar ese festival de caos lo he gozado como una niña pequeña.
Y me ha encantado saber más de Cassidy y su pasado, y el que adore Nueva York tanto como yo es la cereza sobre la tarta para que definitivamente sea de mis personajes favoritos.
Les adoro a todos y la locura en la que están metidos.
Esta ciudad está tan bella ahora como cuando la vi por primera vez
Cassidy is kidnapped and taken to "Masada" by the Grail, so Jesse is determined to save him. We see D'Aronique for the first time, as well as the last of the Holy Blood line. The very pure blood line. A little too pure you might say. If you've read the comic or seen the show, you know what I mean. There's also a two part origin of Cassidy. This is some of the best of Preacher, both story and art.
Cassidy <3
4.5*
By far my favorite of the series... so far. I love Cassidy.
4.5/5Cassidy's origin is a nice touch, but I felt that Jesse's father 'Nam story made the plot a bit slow (despite being freaking amazing, y'know)
Loved it. Again.
First half (or so) of Vol. 3 felt familiar like I had read it before heading off to college, but I think I had to give it back to my friend before getting to the Cassidy stories.The volume starts with a one-off story of Custer's dad, told through flashback with the help of an old war buddy in the airport while our hero is waiting for a flight...
I actually googled what happened to Starr's left ear because I didn't remember, and I read that story not that long ago!Maybe my memory was failing, but it usually felt like dialogue picked up mid-scene at the start of a page, and I often checked to make sure I didn't somehow flip two pages at once...That is another weird thing about this volume...
