https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/699643.Mojave_Crossing
Yeah, she's scheming and all, and twisty like a snake, but she wasn't really a threat—at least, not in any way that mattered (i.e. to Tell's integrity or standing as a man of honesty and courage).
Packing Ange away (his girl from Sackett) was kind of cheap, though, so I have to call this the weakest show for romance (which is surprisingly strong in the rest of L'Amour's work).I'm not sure if all four of those stars are fully earned; I may simply be relieved that the downward dive of the last couple was aborted and this book benefited from the comparison.
Louis L'Amour takes no time getting into the adventure and doesn't slow down.It's one exciting escapade after another, everything I could ask for in a western. Tell is a fun character and I look forward to checking out more of the Sacketts stories.
This one wasn't as good as the others. It took me a while to finish it.
The Sackett novels are such fun. L'Amour is wonderful at depicting the southwest: its beauty, its danger, its allure. They do get a little formulaic at times, but L'Amour is such a master it doesn't matter.
These women are tall, slender, educated, dignified, and usually have auburn hair.Then we have, in some of the stories, female villains.
They scheme, they plot, and they are cold blooded murderers.The male characters often are killers and gunfighters, but they eventually want to settle down and the love of a good woman (the auburn-haired heroine) helps them to become good, peace loving citizens and family men.The female villains are never offered a chance of redemption.
I long to read a story where one of the rugged Louis L'Amour heroes takes a woman out of a bad situation and offers her a chance of happiness.
ISBN from 1980 Bantam https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...A mystery strings along until the very last page. The surprise whammy makes me want to start from the beginning and read all over again. I have already re-read many L'Amour, and not tired yet of real heroes. (view spoiler)[Every glimpse of Dorinda brings back memories of Tennessee home. The connection does not click until the very end. (hide spoiler)]"All the Sacketts, even those no-account Sacketts from Clinch Mountain, run to boy-ch
(hide spoiler)]"All the Sacketts, even those no-account Sacketts from Clinch Mountain, run to boy-children.
They had a saying over yonder that if you flung a stone into the brush you'd hit a Sackett boy, and likely, although it wasn't said, a Trelawney girl" p 373.
She hires Nolan Sackett, from Clinch Mountains "first time I'd ever laid eyes on kinfolk of mine when I wasn't pleased" p 434.
(view spoiler)[ Nolan grins, tosses gun to Tell.
Even Nolan offers the evil witch "You want to come with us, Abigail?
.. one of those no-account Trelawney girls from back yonder in the hills." "Well I'll be damned!
I personally didn't think this book was well written compared to Louis L'Amour's other novels. Part of it might be because I hadn't read the Sackett series (because i didn't know it was part of the series) but I think that I didn't like it mainly because I didn't enjoy the characters and wasn't really interested in the story. Sure, there was some exciting parts, but over all I thought it was a waist of time. I'd much rather read on of his better books.
I enjoyed this book. It was a typical Louis L'Amour Sackett read, but I like the detailed descriptions of the scenery in each of his books. I also like how he places his characters in actual places and tells us where they are located today. This story is a continuation of the Sackett brothers, this one is about William Tell Sackett who manages to get himself involved with a woman who supposedly needs help.
I liked the book. I grew up on a mining property deep in the mojave (Aztec wash to be exact)All of the spring and washes in this book are real and are described very well. I can say that because they essentially where my backyard. The rest of the book is a great example of Louis Lamour's sence of action, Honesty, honor, and historical precision. Great and short read!
About three quarters through the story there is finally a mention of Ange Karry.Tell is on his way to Los Angeles to sell some gold and then buy supplies and bring them back to the mining camps in Arizona.
He meets a black eyed woman on the Colorado River and she asks him to take her to Los Angeles when the stage she is waiting for is wrecked.
The two head off into the Mojave Desert with the men that are chasing Dorinda Robiseau following them almost the entire way.
These books are often a lesson in history and geography.
WILLIAM TELL SACKETTLoads of history regarding the crossing of the Mojave Desert and the unique names given the "tanks" which held water year round.
Per William Tell Sackett those things were most important to know and the locations.
Lots of history about California and the Spaniards who owned huge rancheros.
There isn't any reference, in this adventure about the Spanish Grants that Spain had issued to Spaniards wishing to settle the areas that now are New Mexico, Arizona and California...very interesting.
I think everyone reading about the Sackett Clan of Tennessee will feel the same...
If you grew up watching "Have Gun Will Travel" or "The Rifleman" or "The Lone Ranger" or any of a dozen or so John Wayne westerns, you can appreciate the simple pleasure to be found in most of Louis L'Amour's books, especially those featuring the Sacketts (a personal favorite).
if you're of a mind to set a spell, knock down some of that trail dust with a cold drink and relax with a fast-paced, don't need to think, just sit back and enjoy it kind of book, then this here's a fine little philly; take her for a ride, enjoy the sights, sounds, and palaver that's trademark L'Amour, and don't be surprised if you finish with a hankerin' for an episode or two of "Gunsmoke."
It moved right along, with no wordy tangents.
The story line was simple and straight forward.
Interesting characters and a cute little twist at the end.
This is the first Louis L'amour western I've read, and it is in the classic cowboy western groove.
I liked it very much and will read more of his works.
He was a very prolific writer of well over one hundred books and dozens of short stories.
A real story teller in the old tradition of sitting around the campfire and mesmerizing everyone with a tall tale.
Nothing fancy here just good reading on a humble scale.
Certainly not the best of the L'Amour Sackett saga, though not an altogether bad story...just tremendously unbelievable for several reasons. The basic story is that Tell Sackett agrees to take a dark-eyed woman to Los Angeles (he refers to her frequently as a black eyed witch), through the Mojave Desert, though they are attacked along the way. While Tell survives through extraordinary circumstances, and the final "battle" left much to be desired, this quick read is a decent enough part of the series that it should not be ignored.
Standard Sackett formula - one of them pitted against overwhelming evil, other Sackett's hear of it and come to get in on the finale. Somehow it never gets old. I would like it if once in a while, the Sackett in question wore glasses, was built like a twig and guns scared him. His love interest would be kinda dumpy, had buck teeth, a wandering eye, and a mole on her face that sprouted 5 thick black hairs
I ended liking it but it took the whole book to do it. Again, weird pacing. Didn't reveal the protagonist until the second third of the book (although it was first person POV), then didn't answer questions that reveal brought up until the last third of the book. But, it ended well, and all the horses lived, so I suppose that's enough.
This is another tale of Tell Sackett. Louis L'Amour knows how to surprise a reader occasionally. One of the main characters of this story ends up being one of the fabled Trelawney girls that the Sacketts knew, sometimes pursued and courted back in Tenesee. I love reading about William Tell Sackett. This is a great book.
Timeless Jewels!I have been reading Loius L'Amour books since I was in grade school, 50 years ago! Every lead character possesses a stalwart independent virtue that I have admired as a kid until today. I have read every one of his 126 novels at least three times over and still enjoy them immensely! You will love them all!
Tell Sackett is one of my favorites of the Sacketts, so I was delighted to see him as the lead in this book. The book was full of tiny twists, including adding a new Sackett to the list: Nolan Sackett, a gunfighter for hire. There is a love story -- or is it a betrayal? I'm not going to tell here! Read the book!If you like Westerns, you'll like this one.
Wonderful descriptions of the landscapes and living on the land.L'Amour causes the reader to feel a part of the story. A person is able to visualize the country as if being there.
Louis L'Amour is hands down my favorite western writer. And Mojave Crossing is one of my favorite L'Amour books. I was born and raised in the Mojave desert and could really relate to it. If you like the Sackett series, then you'll enjoy this book. I think it's one of the best in the series.
This book followed his normal fashion leaving the reader happy and content as we hear of people struggling to right injustices.
New writer for me. Love the characters, length of story, terse writing. May become a fave.
The end was great! :D
Great ending!I chose this rating because Louis L'Amour was a great author, and my favorite. I would suggest this book to anyone.
A little more brief and loose than other Sackett books I've read, yet sill an entertaining read.
This isn't my favorite of the Sackett series, but working my way through the L'Amour bibliography this summer, and this is on the list.
I give it 3.5 stars. The characters and storyline were fine, but I liked the California setting.
lots of action and shooting in this one. He runs around the country helping people and getting on their bad side and shot at for the trouble all the way around.
A typical Sackett story...pretty good for the most part. There were a couple annoying things about it that I don't recall from other L'Amour books. It seemed all the characters were "black-eyed" or "old devils"....I think Louis could have broadened his vocabulary some. A couple times the story got a little bit confusing about who was a good guy or bad guy, but overall as said before, pretty good.
