https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32556.Selected_Poems_and_Tales
The only book of Poe that I own...its highly enlightening and influenceal for me. Will keep this book with me through out my life.
The book is Selected Poems and Tales by Edgar Allen Poe. Each of the 224 pages has a different tone, whether it be scary, happy, sad, and many more.
Let the bell toll!-a saintly soul floats on...." One thing that I think is crucial to have in a good book are the details.
His room was as black as pitch with the thick darkness, (for the shutters were close fastened, through fear of robbers)...."I give this book three stars and I would recommend it to anyone with a strong liking towards poetry and interesting stories.
Other than that Poe's dark tales and poems were fascinating.
The illustrations for this volume are worth the price you may pay. Mark Summers has some striking pieces occupying full pages; my husband and I first encountered these illustrations when they were featured in a museum exhibit focusing on various artists' renditions of Poe stories and poetry. (By the way, Neil Gaiman wrote the introduction to the anthology as well!)
Love poe's work..
Edgar Allen Poe is my #1 favorite poet, he has a very dark and romantic tone.
One of his Edgar Allen Poe story tales that I enjoyed is called The Black Cat, it’s a dark romantic story tale that he wrote.
They even made a short film about The Black Cat. I would recommend this book because you can learn often about Edgar Allen Poe just by reading his poems and tales.
Even though Edgar Allen Poe has a very dark tone in his poems and tales, he also has a little soft romantic side in him as well.
I love all things Poe. I would say I’m obsessed.
I love this beautifully illustrated version of Poe’s stories.
Neil Gaiman’s introduction, Some Strangeness in the Proportion: The Exquisite Beauties of Edgar Allan Poe, is a gorgeous Essay about one of the most amazing authors and poets.
I can’t wait to share some of the stories and narrative poems with my classes this coming semester.
Beautifully written so many years ago and beautifully illustrated today.
I love Poe. His writing at first glance looks like nonsensical rambling, but when you read, the language is just very complex. His stories are so vividly detailed and the stories gives you a sense of beautiful uncomfortably. Poe is probably the best author of all time.
I read an antique version, so probably not the same collection.
All the poems and tales are mostly fantasy.In each story, there are different characters.
These two characters are from chapter one “The Gold-Bug”.In the poems and tales, Edgar kind of makes his stories dark.
These tales and poems are not real, and they are made up, so anything can happen.There are a lot of stories in this book, so I will talk about “The Gold-Bug”.
Really the kind of story, or what he is saying in some things are a little unusual.In some of the tales and stories, there is some sarcasm.
Like in “The Gold-Bug”, Jupiter has a little sarcasm in him.
Poe’s writing is hit and miss, and this book is a great example of that – it just wasn’t much fun to read it, and even if I gave it my full concentration I often found that I’d read an entire story without really understanding or appreciating what was going on.That said, there are a couple of great stories contained here, including The Tell-Tale Heart, which is arguably his most notorious piece of fiction and the work that he’s most well-known for after The Raven, the poem with its immortal refrain of “Quoth the Raven ‘Nevermore.’” I liked The Murders in the Rue Morgue as well, perhaps because it included a fictional detective and I’m a keen reader of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and Agatha Christie.Overall, though, I just find it hard to enjoy Poe’s rambling prose, and the fact that his work was written almost 200 years ago doesn’t help – if you think Dickens is occasionally hard to understand, then you need to go ahead and try this, if only to see how wrong you are.
Edgar Allan Poe is known as a famous poet, short story writer, novelist, playwright, literary critic and publisher.
It can be witnessed that Poe has refereed to "red plague" in many of his works, as well as focus on the destruction of beauty, love and innocence, refer to the death of these women.Poe's works were carefully planned out.
The lack of detail and absence of background information helps drive the reader to focus on the actions, moreover, the pace is fast, the story is short, and is read keenly until the end.
I grew up with my father telling me Edgar Allen Poe stories at the foot of my bed. I bought this book years ago. When I read it, it reminds me of my childhood.Poe is in a class all by himself. His tales and poems make you think and feel, which has become something of a lost art in modern writing.Don't discount this book for teens. The darkness will appeal to them and the tales, as always, have a sense of redemption.
I'm not a poe afficionado but wanted to read some of his writing- I found it hard to read these at first just getting into his style but he really grew on me. probably easier to take it slowly unless you're already a poe fan, but some real gems in here and he is truly fantastic at setting a scene in a very few pages.
The way I feel about Poe's writing is that he has good ideas, but they way he tells his stories doesn't really work for me and most of his poetry is a bit too much. There's too many words to tell one thing, too much exposition and not enough happening, and too much telling and not enough showing.
Some creepy, some weird, some absolutely brilliant.
I read the poems, but not the stories. I enjoyed the creepy poems though.
I love Poe and I love reading his works during the fall. I always recommend reading his stories.
He told the tales that were too scary for everyone else. I love it!
Poe, ladies and gentlemen, the Master of Macabre.
Poe. <3
Not this particular version, and not every tale yet, but close.
Great!!
None
My mom gave me this book when I was in high school with the quotion on the inside: "for when you're feeling down..."i love this book!
I've got to get my own volume of Poe. This one's lovely to read, but it's so old I'm afraid of damaging the pages.
My father bought this book when he was in high school and handed it down to me. It was my first book of Poe and my most cherished of his work.
This is a beautiful edition with wonderful illustrations.
