https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46186.Parenting_With_Love_and_Logic
I think that there are a lot of responses to children that they call "Logical consequences" that I call punishment all dressed up in disguise.
I also don't think that I could send my child to daycare or school without clothes or outside on a cold day without a coat if they weren't ready on time, etc.
However, I am sure there will come a time when using such a method will be useful.
That was a reasonable and effective logical consequence.I recommend "Positive Discipline", which incorporates logical consequences, but they aren't just punishments in disguise, and it seems to me to be a much more compassionate way to parent.
For example, the book suggests that if a two-year-old doesn't behave appropriately at dinner, the parents should deny him food until morning.
The authors also suggest that if a 6-month-old throws his bottle, the parents should withhold it until the next meal!
Making sure that the kids get to school actually is the parents' legal responsibility; they can be prosecuted when the kids don't go.
The authors allege that they intend to respect kids by giving them choices, but the choices suggested in this book and the sample dialogues between parents and children sound contrived and demeaning, never respectful.
Parents tend to underestimate children's need for just a tiny bit of control [...] all they want is a little control, not the whole enchilada."So far, so good.
Say to the child, 'You need to spend more time in your room because you're cranky.'  The child will probably say, 'Well, I didn't get enough sleep last night.' [emphasis mine] And your reply?
Well, reading on, they do acknowledge that you may need to then  shut and lock the door  to get the child to stay in the room.
Yes, that's way better than physically carrying the child to his room.
Then there was the whole section on money that I loved, talking about helping your children manage their own finances from a very young age.
Sure they mentioned a few times that their was advice for both, and you had to do some discerning, however I would have liked that they be a little more specific, maybe dividing the book into sections for different age ranges and what was applicable for all age ranges.
It has come great principles and methods for parents who are struggling with different behavioral problems or are at their wits end.
It makes sense that, in order to learn about the real world, children should be allowed to experience consequences (within reason) so they can alter their behavior.
There is a specific “Love and Logic” book geared especially for toddlers, but it’s not at my public library, and after reading this one I’m not sure I want to hunt it down.
I went to a class during BYU Education Week that was a little off-beat on the whole allowance issue, saying that kids need less emphasis on learning money management and more emphasis on learning generosity.
I tend to agree with that school of thought (though how exactly I want to implement that, I’m not sure yet).
I realize that in some circles this book has a stong following, but I found it to be one of the most bizarre parenting books I've ever read...emphasis on talking sweetly and enforcing natural consequences, but in a twisted eye-for-an-eye way.
For example, if a child is misbehaving in a restaurant, the authors recommend removing the child from the table and giving them a choice of walking or being carried out.
I also recommend Barbara Caruso’s, “Kids are Worth It.” It has several of the same goals as these authors (teaching kids to be responsible, decision-making individuals), but Caruso’s book actually helps parents teach their kids to develop these skills, as opposed to letting external consequences be the only guidance.
Some points I agree with:As parents, we need to be "counselors" to our childrenWe should resist controlling our children's every decisionChildren learn responsibility from mistakesIf we do not allow them to fail, they will not learn to succeedNatural consequences are valuableSome points I do not agree with:My first issue came at the beginning of the book, as the authors gave their own testimonials to their theories, telling the readers that if anything in the book seems to ruffle our feathers or that our gut reaction disagrees, it is simply because this is not how we were raised, and because we want to be enlightened to a better way, we need to push aside those feelings of discomfort and believe the book.
This book encourages parents to be mean, authoritarian and bordering on abusive.
I suspect this book appeals to those with certain values different from mine, and I feel sorry for their children.
Much of the language encouraged by the book was disrespectful towards the children.
For instance, ina demonstration, without warning the mom gave away a girl's puppy because she wasn't taking care of it (according to the parent's standards), when the girl begged the mom to go bring it back, the mother said,"You must be kidding...I just took the dog over there.
I think that sometimes going out of your way to "teach them a lesson" is artificial and even on occasion harsh.
I think about the way our Father in Heaven would parent us.
He allows us to suffer the consequences of our mistakes but doesn't "rub it in", or set us up for failure.Having listened to a number of L&L cds and read a couple of the books I also feel that the authors have a very limited number of lessons to teach, they just keep repackaging them in order to make more money.
I have a limited tolerance for parenting "experts" who are so self-promoting.
I agree that kids should be able to choose whenever possible rather than me telling them what to do: "What do you want to do first: Go to the bathroom or get your shoes on?".
I can tell her to wear shoes, and every time she'll whine that she wants flip flops.
I want my kids to be able to come to me when they have issues, and I want them to feel like they can talk to me and that I will be able to help them if they want it, not that I'll just say, "Sucks for you!
I don't rate many books with 5 stars, so you can bet this one is good.
Gail and I have used these techniques and we were amazed at the children's response.
Don't get me wrong, it's way easier to yell at your kids and smack them upside the head.
But, if you want to actually get through to your kids and teach them the skills they will need to make appropriate decisions throughout their lives, this book will change yours.
It was recommended to us by our pediatrician and had proven to be one of the best things she has ever said to us.
My wife and I have only just started to try it in practice, so I can't say yet whether it works for our kids.How to be a Love and Logic (Consultant) Parent (Appendix A)Provide messages of personal worth and strength.Demonstrate how to take care of self and responsibilities.Share personal feelings about own performances and responsibilities.Provide and help explore alternatives that allow child to make their own decision.Provide time frames in which child may complete responsibilities.Model doing a good job, finishing, cleaning up, feeling good about it.Make sure child owns problem; help explore solutions.Allow child to experience life's natural consequences.Responsible Children Feel Good About ThemselvesDon't point out what the children are doing poorly or what they can't do.
“Love & Logic” also seconded advice on letting go a little that I’ve picked up elsewhere, like minimizing use of the word “no” by giving a qualified “yes” and offering nonjudgmental encouragement in the form of questions rather than praise.Additional tidbits of value to me include (1) a trick for delaying discussions to make them more productive (“‘[w]hen your voice sounds [calm] like mine, I’ll be glad to talk with you’”); (2) a new justification for parental sanity measures (“[the only way to] model responsible, healthy adult behavior .
This book is my dad: the calm and sometimes slightly sadistic way he let us experience the consequences of our choices, the kind of detached but sympathetic stance ("Gee, I hope you work that out!
I like that it's a plan for approaching discipline in a positive, loving and emotionally easy way: rather than getting all wrapped up in your kid's problems, allow her to own her own problems, and then support and love her as she suffers the natural consequences and comes up with solutions.
The book is frequently recommended for parents adopting older children, but the whole tone of the book put me off.
The authors seem to take pleasure in the ways they've invented to show children the natural consequences of misbehaviors.
It's very meanspirited.For post-institutionalized kids in particular, the whole concept of "natural consequences" may not even make sense to them at an age-appropriate level.
They need to build trust in their new families and a better understanding of how the world beyond their orphanage walls functions before they can fully grasp the consequences of their actions.
My favorite comprehensive, practical parenting book. I do think it's helpful to have a philosophical and theological framework with which to interpet this system, and to know when to veer off the course. They are a bit heavy handed and also go a bit farther than I think most would / should in application. However, I think the practical examples are helpful to shift parents towards giving their children more responsibility.
I had heard about the "give choices" aspect, but there were plenty of ideas that were brand new to me.Written by a child psychologist and physician, Love and Logic is a parenting philosophy that seems to use Zen techniques to avoid angry confrontations with children and teach them personal responsibility through natural consequences.
I agree, and would even let my children stay up late or "pay" for an unexcused absence, but when one of the authors (I can't remember which one) wrote about teaching his 12 year old foster son about being on time and telling him, "I'll pick you up at 5:00 and will stay until 5:03.
It might take longer and require follow up but at least you are not starving a dog.The book at one point talks about children hitting/bullying and says if that is happening to let the kids deal with it, if the neighbor mom has a problem with your child's behavior then she should take her issues to your child.
I might tell my child they are requiring too much or they need to find another way to get something taken care of but I don't think my "haze of happiness" needs to be a part of the conversation.The author's say you are not supposed to use threats in the love and logic approach but then give examples of veiled threats.
And the mock conversations it provides are so hard to read without hearing sarcasm, let alone deliver that way when you're feeling angry.My major problem with the book was that the application of these principles was often convoluted and sometimes downright cruel (I thought)--like letting a toddler (under two, I think, even) choose between sitting and eating nicely in a high chair or playing on the floor, then denying them any more food for the rest of the night if they choose the floor.
Makes sense as far as it goes, although discipline is not the same as punishment and taking the responsibility for discipline off the parent and putting it onto the child is a bad, bad idea.This book unlike Nurtureshock is anecdotal instead of based on research and since it isn't science-based it makes some serious omissions.
I picture a neurotypical child being treated to "the Uh Oh Song" and think it's the parent who is in for the Uh Oh. But leaving that aside, since neurotypical children while on the rise are still not the majority, the biggest issue in this approach is not recognizing that biologically and neurologically children are not small adults.
The book inspires me to think creatively on the topic of discipline.Here's what I didn't like:1) It's written by men who weren't stay at home parents.
Not sure, as I think they present some really good information (as does Dobson and many of the other men who've written parenting books), but some of their ideas seemed naive to me.2) The denial of the need to submit to authority.
The author suggests that kids hate "thinking about their misbehavior and would rather have a spanking to get it over with." Really?
Like with most parenting books, I don't agree with everything.
I learned a lot from this book and have been practicing some of the strategies (giving lots of choices, singing the uh oh song, etc.).
I also think that there was very little focus on parent/child interaction and rewarding positive behavior.
I think that in order for this theory to work, you have to develop a good relationship with your kids in which the choices you give them are sincere.
I think if you could use this book hand in hand with positive parenting, you could devise a good strategy.
I've heard this material in several settings, but I had not read the entire book before.
I would say this book should be titled, "How to Help Your Children Have Problems".
I like the premise of teaching your children to solve their own problems, own their choices and live out the consequences from an early age while they are under your roof.
This one is a must-read and there is a handy subject reference guide called "Pearls" in the back for help on specific issues, so it's a great reference for any parent's library.
I disagreed completely with the way they proposed for parents to "win" the power struggle with their children: Don't tell them to do anything.
Just ask them to contemplate doing what you want; so that when they don't comply, they are not actually disobeying you -- therefore you haven't lost.
I am just going to tell them to do their homework or face the wrath (you know, like in the good, old days).
I know my way isn't the best, and I was hoping for some better ideas actually, but I did not find them here.
While I really liked the ideas in this book, I'm giving it 4 stars because I felt like it wasn't organized well and didn't really give a clear plan of how to actually implement the ideas.Reread (2017) This time I would give it 3 stars.
It feels like the authors have the attitude that if you would follow the ideas in the book, your kids will be perfect...which works great, until you have a kid who doesn't fit the traditional mold.
I do think there are a lot of good ideas in here, but I don't think one method will work for every kid.
Not a fan. I can't endorse any book who highlights locking your 4 year old child in the room (Oh but you should stand right outside!) or asking your 7 year old child if you look like an idiot. I tried to read to extract whatever good was in there, but I pulled out my pencil and started marking the book where I vehemently disagreed, so I set it aside and moved on to other books I find more beneficial.
There are some great things in this book, and also some weird things. Use your logic and what works for you. We should always speak to our children with love and understanding, being careful not to use sarcasm - which this book seems to use sometimes, but perhaps they don't mean it that way.... And I disagree with their ideas that seemed to use manipulation. Great concept of learning from consequences - of course, and also learning from example (ours).
I can take the "emotion/anger" out of parenting. Well, it's supposed to. This is a book you will want to read and reread. There are so many situations that come up with your children and it gives you situational advice when you forget the reason why you became a parent in the first place.
.. وباستعمال صوت هادئ وكلام متعاطف بدل التهديد والتحذير.مثلا: أترغب باللعب بهدوء هنا أم الذهاب للغرفة؟ بدل، العب بهدوء وأوقف هذه الضجة!
ربما الأولاد الأكبر سنا يحتاجون مثل هذا الأسلوب للتعلم من نتائج تصرفاتهم وتحمل مسؤولية عنادهم، وحتى في هذه الحالة لا أظن أن أي والد يستطيع تقبل أن يعيد ابنه سنة دراسية فقط ليتعلم أن هذا ما تؤدي إليه العلامات المدرسية السيئة!!يوجد بعض النقاط لم أستطع تقبلها بصورة عامة كانت تجربة مفيدة مع تجارب أخرى كما أنه كتاب يستحق نظرة أخرى بعد بضع أعواملكني كلما قرأت أكثر في كتب التربية كلما وجدت أفكار ومفاهيم معاكسة بقدر ما توجد منها المشابهة
I’ve read Teaching with Love and Logic multiple times, so it was no surprise that this book resonated with me as well. The first half includes an explanation of the general Love and Logic approach and the second half of the book applies those ideas to specific situations (like too much computer game time or bullying). I appreciate the practicality of the book. It contains lots of scenarios and dialogues that give parents very concrete ideas of how to apply the principles as well as some possible phrases of how to express yourself to your children.
