https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/380292.Flambards
Description: A totally absorbing novel about twelve-year-old Christina who is sent to live with her fierce uncle and his two sons in their decaying mansion, Flambards. Christina discovers a passion for horses and riding but finds herself part of a strange household, divided by emotional undercurrents and cruelty.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vlRoi...Not the best of quality, yet it is a lovely story
It is generally accepted by everyone, except Christina herself, that she will ultimately marry Russell's oldest son, Mark (who is very like him), and thus use her money to finance the upkeep of the Flambards estate.
Russell's younger son, Will, hates fox hunting, and is mad for machinery: cars and the fledgling aeroplanes.
Since it's Flambards, it goes without saying that Christina must learn to ride and to fox hunt.
And it's even better when you realize that there are three more books in the series, taking you through a great deal more of the history and social changes of the times.
Orphaned Christina is forced to go live with her Uncle Russell, and his sons, Mark and Will, at their home, Flambards, in the early 1900s. Mark and his father are obsessed with horses while Will is obsessed with machinery and aviation. To her surprise, Christina becomes deeply attached to Flambards, although her relationship with these three strong willed men is unpredictable and stressful.
Still, it was a quick easy read and I basically enjoyed it (apart from two areas where I became so disgusted with the characters' behavior that I was fuming - in that sense perhaps the book did do well in representing the social injustices of the time.) The horses are there more as a comparison with the air craft: neither are given too much depth (although I could have done with about a quarter of the description of fox hunting tbh - not a supporter.
I liked the way the plot forged bonds between Christina and William, and there is plenty of invention in the story of William and his desperation to escape his father's tyranny.
There's a nice sense of time passing and the characters growing up.All of this is good, but I felt overall Christina was passive and ineffectual, lurching from one crush to another.
I felt rather uninvolved in the characters' relationships.
I felt rather uninvolved with the unfolding relationship, and so I didn't believe that this was the love that would form a fitting end to the book.
Christina Russell's arrival at Flambards is overshadowed by her cousin William being stretchered to his room with a badly broken leg after riding accident.
In order to survive at Flambards, Christina is forced to take up riding and forms a strong friendship with Dick, one of the grooms working at Flambards who is assigned the task of teaching her to ride.
William's accident is met with derision by his father and brother, Mark, and Christina discovers William's hatred of riding and the cruelty and dark reactionary values prevailing at Flambards.
William is a disappointment and scapegoat to his father and Mark and considered a family misfit.
Yet the horses of the manor, and a stablehand, Dick as well as the youngest Flambard, William offer her hope of escape and a sense that her life could be different should she choose to escape that which has already been written for her.
What comes across in the novel, for me, is the physicality.
The horses, their tempers and the physical challenges of the characters set a power and strength in here that I find fascinating.
There is also, in Christina, a sense of a young woman steadily challenging the gendered norms that her society expects.
Though, of course, with riding the romanticism is curtailed by the inclusion of Will’s and Mr. Russell’s accidents.
In the first book, flying is definitely the safer sport.
It won’t stay that way through the series, but the first book seems to be saying, “Yes, flying might be dangerous, but look at how dangerous our ancient and beloved sport of hunting, or horseback riding is?
So it’s very much a story about a girl whose life is framed by men and boys, and whom it seems, is only waiting to be married off.
I first read this book when I was about 12, the age of the heroine Christina and loved it.
However, it is set in the stifling confines of pre-war Edwardian Britain and maps the trials of an oppressed adolescent: Christina is an orphan who has been handed around the family until sent, at the beginning of this story, to the eponymous crumbling manor in Essex.
Poor girl has to put up with the family's obsessive behaviour and try to find her place in this world without any say in what happens to her .The book really stands up and is a lovely read whether you are child or adult.
Really loved it.
Can't explain why.
The plot was nothing exciting, I guess, but I loved the way it was written.
The descriptions were so evocative and the characters were fascinating and complex.
And it was set in a time period that I find interesting, too.
I just wanted it to keep going forever, so I was thrilled to learn there are sequels!My only complaint was that Christina's realisiation at the end that she loved William seemed really sudden and almost tacked-on.
Didn't feel any build-up or real sense of passion behind it - they are VERY different people, not suited I think.
I loved this series - and it was remarkably racy for kids' reading.
The heroine, Christina is drawn to two men, but chooses her cousin, Will - the one who deliberately falls and smashes his leg so that he won't have to do any more riding in the great Flambard's tradition.
Then he is killed in the first world war and Christina returns to a Flambards where the older brother has let things go - drinking as well, but the groom is still there - Dick - the one who taught her to ride - the one she has always had the secret hots for.
Like I said racy stuff for a 10/11 year old.
Saw this mentioned on Twitter and it looked just my sort of thing. Turned out my instincts were right! A young heiress is sent to live with her uncle and cousins at their crumbling country estate. To me it read like WUTHERING HEIGHTS if rewritten by D.E. Stevenson. Definitely continuing with the series.
Peytonin Christina-kirjat: nuortenkirjallisuuden klassikko, joka voisi olla myös aikuisten klassikko.
Enolla on kaksi poikaa ja hän toivoo, että Christina menisi myöhemmin naimisiin vanhemman pojan kanssa, jotta Christinan täysi-ikäisenä saama perintö voitaisiin sijoittaa kartanon ylläpitoon.
Kartanossa kaikki on rempallaan, Russell-eno on äkkipikainen ja Christinan täytyy opetella aivan uusi ajanviete; ratsastaminen ja ketunmetsästys.
Vaikka kirjat on kirjoitettu 60-luvulla ja käännetty suomeksi 80-luvulla, ei aika ole syönyt näitä muun kuin kannen kuvituksen osalta.
Kirjat ovat hyvin elämänläheisiä ja sopivat mainiosti myös aikuislukijallekin.
Kirjat valottavat myös perienglantilaisia säätyeroja, palkollisten asemaa, köyhyyden vaikutusta ihmisiin, teknologian muuttumista arkiseksi sekä sodan vaikutuksesta yhteiskunnan hitaaseen muuttumiseen.
Christina isn't sure how she feels about this, especially when she arrives and is treated like a servant, and she sees how cruel her uncle is about anything but horses.
Mark is just like him, too, and odd William is bed-bound on purpose to escape the horses.
But as the kind stablehand Dick teaches Christina to ride, she discovers she loves the horses, which leads her to have mixed feelings about Flambards in general.This was an enjoyably old-fashioned read.
Some of Christina's lack of choices was really frustrating, because she is unable to leave Flambards to go live elsewhere, and she can't allow herself to love a servant.
The first few pages took me a little bit to get into the writing style, but once I did I was hooked.Christina moves to Flambards to live with her uncle, Russell, and cousins, Mark and William.
Little does she expect the kind of people she will meet there.
Mark takes after Russell, but William has dreams of his own.Christina settles in the lifestyle and even finds she does like horses.
Much to my delight I found that William loves aeroplanes.
I think William wins, just because he loves flying so.
For a book I didn't expect to enjoy so much, I was pleasantly surprised :)
There's a stark contrast outlined in the story between the traditional values of the hunting field, the lower working classes who are striving so hard to keep the upper classes in comfort, and getting sparse thanks for their efforts, and the inexorable march of progress as embodied in the development of the aeroplanes which William is so interested in, and the early warnings of the onset of the war "to end all wars".The story is told by Christina, cousin of Mark (embodying the traditional) and William (representing the new times to come).
Being a teacher, I buy lots of children's book, and also a travelling Book Fair comes to my school 3 times a year.
But this means that I have quite a lot of children's books lying unread.So this is how I got this lovely edition of Flambards, an Oxford Children's Classic.
The story has got a few things going for it that I know some older children (10+) would enjoy.
One thing I learnt about horses (not a subject I know an awful lot about anyway), was that there is a breed call Strawberry Roan, so called because they look sort of pink!
Jag tror jag läste den för hästarnas skull när jag var barn, men egentligen innehåller den mer än hästar och rävjakt.
Jag gillade tidsskildringen, men störde mig lite på att författaren lite för ofta hemfaller åt berättande i stället för gestaltning.
Jag störde mig också på att handlingen kändes lite fragmentarisk med sina stora hopp i tiden.
Nu när jag läst visare i serien inser jag att den här första boken på många sätt finns till för att förbereda inför seriens nästa del, och alltså innehåller mycket som "måste hända" för att handlingen ska kunna gå vidare.
I do love a good horse story.
And this, all other considerations aside, is a damn good horse story.
There's also a plucky orphan and some misunderstood boys and some downtrodden servants and an evil sot of an uncle.
So it's not like there's nothing for you non-horsey folks.
There's plenty of fox-hunting that ends badly for the foxes, so do be warned about that if you're squeamish about fox blood smeared on people in a ritualistic manner and the like.
(Is that a spoiler?
I don't think so, but I'll tick the box on the review anyway.
One from my collection. The opening pages took me right back to 1977. Delicious.Later...How I love this story. Re-reading it again for the umpteenth time took me straight back to my teenage years. I actually felt a shiver down my spine as I started reading it, the descriptions of the Essex countryside mingling with my own recollection of that area, and then the theme tune from the tv series popped into my head and I was transported back to the 1970s!
England at the turn of the century, horses and hunting, young orphan girl sent to live with cousins and uncle she never knew in a crumbling manor house...good story, engaging characters...wish I had discovered this series when I was 12. Enjoyed it!
Horse Fever? Downton Abbey fan? Yes, this might be the book for you. Flambards is a book that is filled with horses and saddles and riding and hunting and other Horse Words that escape me at the moment. Trust me on this. Drink this book in and you’ll get your horse love quota for the year.
Brilliant and inspiring, a great addition to any relaxing holiday or a pajama day!
Really sweet story, wish that Christina stayed with the horses though.
The books are even better than the series, and I loved the series!
Really enjoying this so far!
A very sweet little book about a young girl. Who has to live in a house of men. And how Christine coped with her life
So, this book was okay.
The story covered quite a large timeline, but I didn't recognise any signs of the main character, Christina, growing up.
She seemed to swap between crushing on Dick, William and Mark very quickly, which was very confusing.
It may have been because of the are the story takes place in, but Christina's casual acceptance of her probably marrying Mark was rather disturbing.
Perhaps I have been reading too much YA about independent, heroic women.
Either way, it isn't a book I will be recommending nor reading again.
Btw I have lovely Edwardian romantic covers.
I wouldn't have chosen it with the cover shown here!This is a new author for me.
Set in a country  manor where horse racing and hunting are the most important activities.
Christina orphaned at a young age is passed around various relatives and finally goes to Flambards age 12 and is thrown into this mayhem and at times difficult family.It was well written, I enjoyed the cast of characters even if I didn't like them all and the overall plot was enjoyable.
4* for a cosy family drama is unusual from me but this book was a lovely read
adorable characters
