https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47957.Heir_to_the_Shadows
In this second installment, the rapey non-niceties are completely absent and we have instead a deeply emotional story of friendship, love and the bonds they create giving the strength to overcome trauma.
The story also follows Daemon Sadi, my second favorite character, who was also brutally injured in his rescue (though a bit late) of Jaenelle from her attackers.
(view spoiler)[ Here is Jaenelle, come full into her power, making it CRYSTAL that she will protect those under her (including the much persecuted “kindred”) from any who try to harm them: That is a list of the Territories that yielded to Ebon Askavi.
Reviewed by: Rabid Reads.It took me a full year to build up the courage to listen to HEIR TO THE SHADOWS after being thoroughly traumatized by book 1.
I really love Anne Bishop’s THE OTHERS series, and I’m a firm believer in second chances when it comes to authors, so after twelve months of mental preparation, here we go again.
Lots of character development takes place, both where the protagonist was concerned as well as the secondaries, and all of the chess pieces were brought to the fore, including the kindred—wolves, unicorns & dragons!Even though THE BLACK JEWELS series now has nine volumes under its wing, it was originally a trilogy, so this installment felt like it was the limbo between books 1 & 3 which explains its lack of major intrigue.
So...I have mixed thoughts about this trilogy, not the least of which it's kind of hard to take seriously a world where hot men are controlled by penis rings.
This trilogy seems to me to be the ultimate teenage girl's fantasy.
Everything is about this main character and her growing up to be the savior of the world, all the men are safe and doting (controlled by penis rings if they're super hot, lol), older women are the ones who are evil and jealous and want to control the young girl, etc etc.
2.5 rounded upThis was nowhere near as good as the first book.
Still, there's just something about Bishop's writing that I find comfortable, which is similar to how I feel about Patricia Briggs's books.
That being said, the story in this second book seemed more like filler or a bridge between Jaenelle's childhood and adulthood without a whole lot of substance.
I could go into more and point out some nitpicks but honestly this is an old series and there are a ton of reviews and I'm lazy.Not sure if I'm going to read the third book any time soon.
This is the second book in this trilogy.
I'm a lover of fantasy, humor, sex and mystery and this trilogy contains all of that.
This second book was light on the sex but when you read something this amazing, it really doesn't matter to me.This is the fantasy story of a girl and how she becomes queen of almost all she sees.
This second book is her story of her rise to power, her search for her true lover and her love and acceptance for the "kindred" of the Blood (her lineage).
This is a wonderful trilogy for almost anyone.
*Edited* 12/30/13 reread.
Totally loved it as much as the first time!
Some of the scenes that shouldn't have been as intense since I already took the ride were just as intense for some reason!
Thanks for the BR and a reason to do the reread BW and Esra!Wow!!
This book totally consumed me!
I guess I was just in the PERFECT mood for this book.
I think Janelle might be my favorite heroine of all time.
Sorry Elena..haha I loved this book so much I feel like giving the first in the series an extra star.
Reread: 9/6-7/17First read: 4/3-5/17This book was so SO GOOD!
I love these characters so much.
I missed Daemon through a lot of it, but I also understood it.
I love the brother-sister dynamic between him and Jaenelle.Saetan continues to be given a hard time by Jaenelle.
He loves it, but I'm sure he sometimes wishes he were capable of falling into an early (not so much) grave.For such a dark series, I end up laughing a lot, and I feel so much for all of these characters.
I can't wait to start the next one!
(Literally, I'm starting it right now.)
I don't think I have it in me to write a review that will fully explain what an amazing book Heir to the Shadows is or just how much I adore this series but I'm going to do my best in the hope of convincing you to read it for yourself.At the end of the previous book we saw Jaenelle suffer the worst kind of physical and mental torture imaginable, it actually hurt my heart thinking about everything she went through and it's the kind of thing that no woman should ever have to deal with - let alone a 12 year old child.
Jaenelle was still annoying because since she doesn't have a direct pov it's hard for me to understand her character.
Hey, don't get me wrong, I like UF's with talking animals/shape shifters etc, but there's too many fantasy elements in this series already for me to keep up with.
I just wanted to know what was happening with Daemon and Lucivar.
I kept hoping Daemon and Jaenelle would finally reunite at some point but nothing happened.
So now I have to read Book 3 to know what happens with them but I don't feel like reading another 400+ pages of nonsense.
2.5 stars Very little happened to move the plot forward. Anne Bishop’s books aren’t action packed, and I don’t expect them to be. I do expect something interesting to happen. Most of this book rehashed the same problems from  Daughter of the Blood . This covered Jaenelle's teenage years, which were relatively uneventful. She recovered from the traumatic events in the prior book, hung out with her friends, and learned how to hone her craft. *yawn*Hekatah hatched a few desperate attempts evil plan
Frankly I wish she’d been killed off because I don’t want to waste my time reading about her since she is insignificant.Lucivar’s role in the first book was small.
He followed Jaenelle around like a lost puppy, and I desperately wish she would have told him to get lost.
She was the only one that cared about him at all, but she failed to show the outrage I wanted to see from her.I’m still going to read the next one, but my expectations aren’t as high as they were when I started this book.
Este segundo volume é um pouco mais parado, mas nem por isso menos interessante.É o livro de ligação entre “Filha do Sangue” e “Rainha das Trevas” e por isso não tem grandes desenvolvimentos em termos de história.O livro deixa um pouco de lado Daemon Sadi para se focar em Lucivar Yaslana, o outro filho bastardo do Senhor Supremo do Inferno.Jaenelle Angelline está agora com 17 anos e é constantemente pressionada para constituir a sua corte.
Second-book-syndrome is a reality.
Sequel-syndrome at work.Please refer to my review of the previous book for information on the world-building."Heir to the Shadows" offered an extended journey into the depths of Terreille and Kaeleer, focusing more on this last kingdom.
It revolved around Jaenelle's teenage years and the development of her powers, plus her recovery from the tragic events of the first book.
Ironically, Jaenelle, the center of the story, is the character I feel more distanced towards.
This element was much softer in "Heir to the Shadows", and for that I was disappointed.
(Thinking he killed her body in the process of recovering her mind, Daemon never left the psychic mists after showing Janelle the way out.)Janelle has blocked out much of what happened, and thus has forgotten Daemon.
But those around her, not knowing exactly where Daemon is anyway, are not ready to lead her through those forgotten memories, assuming she will come to them on her own when she is ready.Saetan, after challenging the council he helped create for the right to become her Guardian, has stepped up to train and aid her.
Van deze heb ik veel meer genoten dan van de eerste, blij dat ik toch verder gelezen heb :-)
Bishop keeps track of the main storyline (which is compelling at the beginning of the book and at the end) but I am not sure about the many, many unnerving and quite laughable subplots.
These subplots are not well-integrated in the narrative, they don't enrich our understanding of the characters' psychology, and they have a "fill-up space" feel to them.
The most ridiculous one was about the scary looking demon that Saetan hired as an art teacher for Janelle and her friends.
The most ridiculous character of all is Saetan, though.
That's why I will read Queen of the Darkness, keeping my fingers and toes crossed.
My favorite character from the first one barely made an appearance, sadly, but I have a new favorite now, and I won't name her; I'll just say "kiss, kiss" and smile wickedly...I should mention that, as much as I adore this series, and the first two books in particular, I have to agree with every single criticism I've seen of them.
Yes, the characters are archetypes more than individuals.
Yes, there is more DRAMA than you can find on prime-time TV shows meant for teens.
The details of how magic works in her world aren't even remotely self-consistent.You either love these books or you hate them.
I happen to love them.These aren't fantasy novels-- they are mythology epics with candy lips and vampire teeth.
Jaenelle, the living embodiment of magic, the prophesied Witch, is a young girl of twelve tormented by the horrors she endured at the hands of her relatives - from which Daemon Sadi rescued her.
You can't help but grow attached to the characters, and feel what they feel.At the same time, it's exciting - never dull - and will take you to places few fantasy books touch upon.
Nothing is black-and-white, everything will make you question your assumptions, and Jaenelle has to be the most endearing, unprepossessing heroine you're likely to read in fantasy.
It was a rainy Sunday so I spent literally all day reading.
This book is probably my favorite out of the series.
I love Jaenelle and Lucivar's relationship.
I love how she comes into her power, and really shows the bad guys what she's made of.The darkness and mystery, and how beautiful the story is always pulls me in and refuses to let me go on with my life.
I'm now having to do homework before I can read the third book and I'm kind of desperate to get to it.
If you like Dark Fantasy, you will adore this series.
Much more enjoyable than the first and quite considerably less dark. It's still dark, but it's full of great characters who get to interact more within the book. Great snarky, sarcastic banter and you know how much I love that!(video review to come!)
Continued from the Daughter of the Blood review page (because my review was too long; I explain my predicament on the Daughter of the Blood review page)Titian:HOLY FUCK I LOVE TITIAN!!!!!!! (let me say it louder for the people in the back)   HOLY FUCK I LOVE TITIAN!!!!!!!!!!!!!  SHE IS SUCH A BEAUTIFUL, FIERCE, INDEPENDENT FEMINIST AND I JUST LOVE IT SO FUCKING MUCH!!!!!!!! IM JUST CRYING RIGHT NOW CAUSE SHE’S SO BEAUTIFUL! LIKE, SHE IS THE PERSON WHO I ASPIRE TO BE--ULTIMATE ROLE MODEL RIGHT HE
This was the moment that Jaenelle knew she had to set up her court (and become the baddest bitch)Well, I mean, first Jaenelle goes to the Dark Council and tells them to stop, but fucking Jorval says that since she doesn’t rule any Territories, she doesn’t have a justifiable complaint.So Jaenelle’s just like:“I’m going to make the Offering to the Darkness and set up my court.”But when all of Jaenelle’s friends and family gather in the throne room and DRACA TURNS OUT TO BE THE QUEEN FROM THE BEGINNING OF TIME LIKE WOW WHAT A FUCKING TWIST I DID NOT SEE THAT COMING AT ALL, I MEAN WHEN SAETAN TOLD THE STORY TO TITIAN AND HE EVEN MENTIONS THAT THE BOOKS NEVER TOLD THE QUEEN’S NAME, I THOUGHT IT WAS KIND OF FISHY, BUT FOR DRACA TO BE THE QUEEN FROM THE BEGINNING OF TIME?!!?!?!!?!?!
Anne Bishop has done it again.
She has made me fall in love with yet another one of her books.
This was a perfect sequel to the first book, Daughter of The Blood.
Anything that was lacking in the first book (which wasn't much) was put into this second installment.
Obviously, I will be reading the next book, Queen of the Darkness.SIDE NOTE: I find it extremely interesting that, while Jaenelle is the main character, we haven't gotten her point of view.
Everyone around her (including the villains) have gotten one and I am really curious why Anne Bishop decided to write this that way.
so this one was different.
Very different from the first, and I don't know how to explain it in a way that won't possibly put some people off.
This novel is pretty much would happen if you set a standard slice of life novel in a fantasy world.
Most of the book is filled with the everyday shenanigans of the cast, and while the plot develops, this is pretty much the opposite of an epic fantasy.
It's quite unlike anything I've ever read, and I mean that in a positive way.
Mother Night...So, instructions for reading this book: rip it half.
The first half, name “Diary of a Pissy Baby aka Saetan.” That part you can burn.In case you are wondering what happens in that part, I'll sum up.
Nothing happens in the first half.)(view spoiler)[1.
Also used too frequently:“May the darkness be merciful.”“Jaenelle fluffed her hair.”“Jaenelle said in her midnight voice....”“Jaenelle's sapphire eyes...”“Why do I want to have sex with Jaenelle?'Okay, maybe that last isn't actually said.
The first half of the book is told almost entirely from his point of view.
The second book in the Black Jewels trilogy picks up almost immediately after the conclusion of Daughter of the Blood, then quickly starts jumping forward in time in intervals of days, months, and even years.
But in Heir to the Shadows Daemon is already a well-established character, one whom I eventually cared about deeply, so to have him essentially forgotten for the years that the book covers was frustrating.Beyond those two things, however, Heir to the Shadows was more engaging than Daughter of the Blood was; I still have no real sense of the physical landscape, but at least the magic system gained a little complexity (though it still resembles an RPG too strongly for my taste) and all the people lusting after Jaenelle this time were bad guys, so it didn't raise my hackles.
As Saetan is fond of saying, "Everything has a price," and the price of enjoying this book is tolerating repetition—none so much as Jaenelle's "midnight voice." After a while (as my mind began to wander to thoughts of drinking games, etc.) I began to wonder whose voice would be more shiver-inducing: Jaenelle's or Bill Compton's?
His cold, dark voice is quite a feature in the Sookie Stackhouse series, you know.
Still, it never felt well grounded, and that's even more apparent to me as I have begun reading George R.R. Martin’s A Game of Thrones, where I do feel like I’m transported to another world.
It hurts to rate a book in this series with 4 stars, but the author didn't give me a chance to do otherwise...While the second half of the book and its ending were amazing and everything I wanted, the beginning was just too slow.
I hate to have main characters in a series which don't get an appearance, and in this book one was invisible half the book and the other one never had the possibility of saying more thant 2 words.
So many things happen at the same time, and there are too many interesting characters, it's just not possible not to adore this series.I guess this book awoke mixed and contrary feelings in me,lol.
Here is what Goodreads says about Heir to Shadows:Enough time has passed for the young girl Jaenelle, heir to the magical Darkness.
Her physical wounds have heal, ed while amnesia keeps her frightening memories at bay.
But with Saetan--a Black-Jewelled Warlord Prince and Jaenelle's foster-father--to protect her, she will continue to grow.
Her magic will mature.
Her memories will return.
I love how Janelle is finally coming into her own and as the books goes on you see her grow and mature from teenager to young woman.
(I am exaggerating, but still...you know what I mean)This books is not exactly boring.
Also the sloooooow healing of Jaenelle's emotional hurts were not that interesting.
How imcompetent the bad guys are.I mean Saetan is really bad ass and all this, Jaenelle has power to explode the whole world, but still puny little idiots try to piss in their cereal?
And that says a lot for a fantasy book...It is well written and I am looking forward to the conclusion, but it has some quirks I don't enjoy (and I'd appreciate if the silly, non-funny jokes could stop.
(Full review here: http://bibliotropic.net/2014/07/24/he...)Heir to the Shadows turned my opinion of this series from “okay but I may or may not continue with it” to “I really want to finish this trilogy and read the other side novels and short stories.” Aside from occasionally irritating repetition in the text (but hey, everything has its price), the writing has improved noticeably between the first book and the second, the characters have had ample room to grow and develop, and the book’s story ends in such a way that left me wishing I had a copy of the third and final book in the trilogy on my shelves right there and then.
OH Daemon!
OH Daemon!
How could this happen?
I don't care what anyone else says, Daemon is my favourite of the line.
Yes, okay, his father Saetan is very sexy and his brother Lucivar is hot.
Still, in this second story, I felt sorry for all the SaDiablo members.
Her time with Lucivar brings a smile to my face.
All these blood coming together for a time when Witch will make people pay, it's pretty heady.
At times, I find this story to be young adult and then other times I find it to be sensually erotic.
