https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/308904.Night_Games_and_Other_Stories_and_Novellas
A crucial body of work featuring some of Schnitzler's finest moments as a writer, this collection consists of seven short-stories, 'The Dead are Silent', 'Blind Geronimo and His Brother', 'A Farewell', 'The Second', 'Baron von Leisenbohg's Destiny', 'The Widower', and Death of a Bachelor', which all are of a pretty high standard.
All have about them themes of love and death, which appeared to be Schnitzler's forte.
I didn't think after reading his 1897 play 'La Ronde' a while back he would suddenly turn into one of my favourite writers, but stranger things have happened.
They have just attended the first masquerade ball of the season (it is just before the end of the Carnival season) and they even found that strangely unexciting, that is until their return home when they were oddly moved to "lovemaking more ardent than they had experienced for a long time."As the story continues, Albertine confesses that the previous summer, while they were on vacation in Denmark, she had had a sexual fantasy about a young Danish military officer.
Utterly remarkable. Easy to see why Freud was so in awe of this man's depth of insight into our psyches. Most of the stories stare into the abyss of a life's illusions being pitilessly ripped away; by contrast, the one with an unambivalent "happy ending" was one of the most moving literary experiences I can recall, readily moving me to tears. Magnificent.
Without doubt the best collection of fever dreams I've ever come across. Intoxicating and surreal. Many thanks to Kubrick for introducing me to this author. Will definitely be checking out his other works.
Schnitzler's short stories are emblematic of the social decay in Austria on the eve of the demise of its monarchy. Great stuff for anyone interested in modernist literature.
Arthur Schnitzler is considered a great Viennese author, maybe the best from the turn of the 19th-20th centuries. His books reflect a bizarre culture consumed by honor (as in duels), sex (especially extra-marital) and death. His stories always touch on these three subjects but not in equal proportions in each story. They are fascinating tales, some with fairly happy endings, some with sad, melancholy endings and many in between. But each of them is an interesting look at life in the dying days of the Austro-Hungarian Empire.
I picked this up because I wanted to read Traumnovelle, the basis for Kubrick's final film Eyes Wide Shut. While that one was good, the other stories were excellent too. Schnitzler shows an ability to explore the subconscious cracks between social norms and conventions. I'm definitely going to be seeking out his other work.
Schnitzler is a great author of short stories. This is a good collection of many of them, although I wish it had more background in addition to the narratives.
Eyes wide shut eh? Wink wink. Lol
The prose is somewhat attractive, but these are altogether very simple stories about extramarital affairs and gambling and backstabbing friends and other middle-class tribulations like that. The characters are almost invariably childish and self-obsessed, which took me out of their world.If one's interested in Freud's Vienna years and early psychoanalysis they might find something here, because these stories are a bit like puzzles that can be unlocked with the murmurs of Freud's early research. But, to me, Schnitzler seemed like a second-rate Chekhov in this collection.
The edition I have isn't a collection of stories. I am only reading Night Games.
Pure genius. Amazing insight into people's motives and passions. Arthur Schnitzler was a natural born psychoanalist.
Dr. Freud loved Schnitzler's "Dream Story" (Traumnovelle), and I second his admiration. It's the rarest gem of this mesmerizing collection.
Dream Story is the highlight. The rest are bleak tales of gambling, infidelity, suspicion and betrayal. More depressing than entertaining.
