https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7981456-a-long-walk-to-water
This is a true to life story of Salva, an 11 year old boy who found little to almost no place in a world where people struggle to survive an almost endless series of conflicts during the Second Sudanese Civil War that started in 1983 .
*sniffs* It’s unbelievable where the young boy found all that courage and will to live.
“He tried not to lose hope.
At the same time, he tried not to hope too much.” 
WISHING YOU A SPECIAL DAY, GOOD HEALTH, HAPPINESS AND MORE GREAT BOOKS TO READ!
کتاب قشنگ، با محتوای قشنگ، دربارهی یک اتفاق واقعی قشنگ با فونتی قشنگ بود. در مورد محتواش خیلی حرف نمیزنم. اما میتونه هم دردناک باشه و هم دلنشین. و از اون مهمتر دربارهی یک چیز واقعیه. وقت زیادی نمیبره خوندنش و در عینحال لطف زیادی رو میرسونه بهت. خوندنش رو پیشنهاد میکنم. محتوا: ۵/۵روانی: ۴/۵سبک: ۴/۵
کتاب قشنگ، با محتوای قشنگ، درباره‌ی یک اتفاق واقعی قشنگ با فونتی قشنگ بود. در مورد محتواش خیلی حرف نمی‌زنم. اما می‌تونه هم دردناک باشه و هم دلنشین. و از اون مهم‌تر درباره‌ی یک چیز واقعیه. وقت زیادی نمی‌بره خوندنش و در عین‌حال لطف زیادی رو می‌رسونه بهت. خوندنش رو پیشنهاد می‌کنم. محتوا: ۵/۵روانی: ۴/۵سبک: ۴/۵
For younger readers, this book may encourage a class to adopt a project to help bring water to children their age in other places in the world.Book is told from two viewpoints.
The two stories come together in an upbeat ending meant to inspire the reader to make a better world.Parks intended this book for children to read, so there is not the terror or violence that this book could contain.
One more comment, because the book ends with an addendum about an elementary school putting a well in the girl's village, students may want to initiate a project like the one in the book.
It's a quick read, told as two alternating stories - that of a young girl Nya in the Sudan in 2008 and a young man Salva in 1985.
Nya must walk hours each day to a far away well to get water for her family.
Salva's story is heart-wrenching.
It was unimaginable to me to think about the horrors children face when they are displaced from their homes, separated from their families and in refugee camps.
Salva's sheer will to survive was inspirational.
This is one book I highly recommend reading & discussing with all the important children in your life.
But Salva finds the strength and hope to survive and becomes a leader among what has become known as the Lost Boys of the Sudan.
Some of these boys were able to find a way to not only survive, but to help those left behind.
Salva's story intersects with Nya's in an interesting way, showing that the efforts of one can have a far-reaching effect.While the book does explain some of the horrors that the Lost Children of the Sudan and the other refugees faced, it does not do so in a graphic way, and the story is not about despair or violence, it's about hope, which makes the book great to share with students who face their own challenges.
Absolutely an astonishing story that I believe can inspire anyone at any age.
When you've read about Nya and Salva's dilemmas in life, you really can't say your life is not good.
Ask yourself this: Is it really miserable, or are you just not being grateful of what you have?
What inspired me the most was the fact that Salva had kept hope and perseverance throughout this dangerous and terrible life.
His uncle's strategy of solving problems and reaching towards a goal is in his blood.
This book is so inspirational that it is in my blood, too :)
In brown print is the story, set in 2008, of Nya, a young girl from Sudan who has to walk 8 hours round trip to fetch water every day, twice a day.
In black print is the story of Salva, a young Sudanese boy whose village is attacked by the rebels in 1985 and who ends up fleeing across the desert to a refugee camp in Ethiopia.
After witnessing many horrors, he and other "lost boys," homeless and orphaned, walk back across Sudan to refugee camps in Kenya.
I became "heart-repaired" in the end because, in the beginning, all the way to the end, it was mostly sad and fist clenching stories.
In the end, as you might know, the two meet, young Nya, and grown-up Salva.
This is because these type of people might start crying in the middle of this book!I can't connect to this story at all.
These type of "true" stories are just too rare, but in the end, it might be common to some people.
I wish others can read this book so that they have a similar thinking as me, and actually try to help types of people such as Nya and Salva.
After I read this book, I realized how sad or poor many other places in the world was.
Salva kept on trying, and eventually made it to both of the camps.
He also kept on trying to raise money for Sudan after he got to America, and he eventually got to build the wells.
It's really hard for me to connect to this book, as I can't connect to how much pain the people of Sudan was experiencing, but I can connect to how hard work will help you succeed.
محشر بود وپر از حرف هاي غير قابل باور...اما واقعي
It is a quiet book because Park reports and does not sensationalize.
At times, in the beginning of Salva's journey, I felt a slight disconnect: I did not feel that his forced exile from his village or even the loss of his new friend are scenes that moved me emotionally.
I even feel that I've learned a precious lesson from his mantra of taking one step at a time, solving one problem at a time -- to conquer seemingly insurmountable obstacles or to achieve seemingly impossible goals.It is a powerful book because Park manages to tell a harrowing tale to a young audience that will surely stimulate empathy and activism.
He joins a group and they first try to make their way to Ethiopia where they are chased off by soldiers and forced to jump into a lake filled with crocodiles.
He then spends a year and a half with a group headed for Kenya--then America.
The book is about what happens on his many attempts to escape fighting in his village.Things get a bid muddled though, when you flash-forward to Nya, a young African girl who is later connected to Salva in a weird ending.
This could be befuddling for inquisitive kids (like my niece who wanted to know: "but what happened to his mommy?").
The story of a Salva is a moving one.
The long civil war in Sudan destroyed the country and devastated its people. Park alternates the stories of two Sudanese children, one a Lost Boy, forced to flee his village during an attack and seek refuge in Ethiopia, and a young girl who walks for miles each day to collect water for her family. A brief, powerful story explaining the Sudanese conflict to children and one boy's hope and courage.
I am speechless right now! There are no words to describe this book. It was amazing. It also had very good writing. I vould not put the book down. I can't believe that I finished a book within 2 days. That is how much I was into the book.
It made me wonder how much just one's help, can change someone's life.
It made me realize how I'm too lazy to go from my room to the refrigerator to get water, while half way across the world in Sudan, a country next to Ethiopia that ended a civil war not too long ago, there is someone(Nya) walking hours just to get muddy water.
Now talking about Salva and his family, he meets his father in 19 years!
Now thinking about it, the war has also changed Salva in many ways.
I like how it talks about 2 different main characters.
I like how Salva never gives up, he still had hope, Which made me have hope for him.
I find it amazing how these people in Sudan living like this, bad water not a lot of food.
Each time I heard Salva talk about his parents I would keep telling myself, his family is alive, his family is alive, his family is alive.
I recommend this book to people who love personal stories, and if you would like to know about what happened in Sudan during that time.
In this way, Salva makes sure that the different cultural and ethnic groups in South Sudan reap the rewards of development equally.
Furthermore, the author suggests that many of the rivalries between tribes stem from disputes over access to water, meaning that providing clean water for the different tribes will make South Sudan more a more peaceful place for its inhabitants.I can make a text-to-world connection the South Sudanese refugee crisis and the situation Salva and Nya is in.
In the video, USA vetoed the resolution by the United Nations of aborting weapon transportation to South Sudan, which could possibly save thousands of lives.
Which I believe that it was, if you have a goal in life, as long as you try you can always accomplish it and never lose hope.
The first time we see this is when Salva starts his long walking journey to safety and freedom from violence in the beginning of the book.
In this scene, we first hear Salva continuously try to get to safety with the other thousands of children.
We can see Salva really trying to achieve a goal.
Throughout the book we see the book telling us that all you need to do to acheive your goal is try.
I really like how it shows different examples of life in Southern Sudan.
Salva and Nya's life were so different, yet they live in the same country and same culture, it's just the time period is different.
His life is so different then ours, and our lives are better than his in many ways, yet, he never gave up, and at the end probably experienced and learned more than we ever will.
Another part of the book that I really liked, was at the end, at how Nya didn't have to walk to the pond for water.
In this story, Salva and Nya are the main characters.
Their both from Sudan, and faced many challenges.
Salva's village was under attacked by the rebels, they had to run away from the village for safety.
On this long hard journey to Ethiopia there are many things that happens to Salva both tragic and emotional.
Salva is independent and learns how to control one situation at a time.
Nya on the other hand, she walks every single day to go get water from the pond.
The water is dirty, but that changes soon.
I honestly loved this book, it was hard to put down.
This was a quick read that pact a powerful punch. I highly reccomend it to all. Sometimes we all take for granted the things that come so easily for us. We instinctively feel it to be a basic right for all. ( Not all have access or enjoy the basic necessities of life ) I love how the author artiulates the two POV's and ultimately how they intersect at the end of the book.
یه ماجرای واقعی نرم و آروم مثل شنهای داغ صحرای بزرگ که از دور زیبا و شگفتانگیز به نظر میان، اما حتی از دور هم مشخصه که از نزدیک ممکنه از پا درت بیارن.
یه ماجرای واقعی نرم و آروم مثل شن‌های داغ صحرای بزرگ که از دور زیبا و شگفت‌انگیز به نظر میان، اما حتی از دور هم مشخصه که از نزدیک ممکنه از پا درت بیارن.
A long walk to water is a novel about two stories, Salva's, and Nya's.
Nya is a girl who has to fetch water every single day, from a pond miles away from her village.
He just kept thinking "I just have to make it through this day, one step at a time".
My biggest connection to Salva was the feeling that he was getting too much on his plate, and he couldn't eat through it all.
I do the same thing salva does, take a deep breath and think that I just have to get through this day.
In 1985, Salva is an eleven-year-old boy from Southern Sudan, sitting in a classroom.
He runs and runs, hoping that somehow he'd find his family at some point.
In 2008, Nya, an eleven-year-old girl who is also from Southern Sudan, makes a daily trek to a faraway pond, in the baking sun, to fetch brown muddy water for her family.
When the rain stops and the pond dries up, her family must walk for three days to camp by a lake.
It, too, is dried up, but they dig deep into the claybed for whatever muddy water they can get.Salva's story is truly heartbreaking.
The first, which starts in 1985, focuses on Salva, who becomes one of the Lost Boys of Sudan when his village is attacked in the middle of the school day and he must flee for safety -- a heartbreaking journey which takes years and spans countries and continents.The second story line starts in 2008 and focuses on Nya, a Sudanese girl whose sole activity in life is to walk miles to and from a watering hole each day to collect dirty water (the only available kind) for her family.
Middle grade readers will find suspense, action, and a sense of empathy for the characters in both of the story lines.
I believe that the soul in this book is the line "Just this one step-one step at a time." This message is not only repeated, but it is also meaningful.
But, if you take it one piece at a time, you would find it easier.
In the book, Salva's story literally revolved around this one line.
When he was walking from South Sudan to Ethiopia, he was thinking of this sentence to encourage himself.
When he was digging wells for the Sudanese, he was thinking of what his uncle had taught him.
This is a very meaningful book.
"The lion could easily ----It sought out a prey that was small and motionless: Marial, sleeping" (Sue 41) Ms. Linda Park Sue is not an Alexander Dumas, nor does she write extremely remarkable books, but she still touched me with this historical fiction novel.As I think about the first quote, I always link it to society today.
These people in power of the consumer and citizens are the lions hunting Marial.
African Americans and Latinos accused of illegal drug use and dead pigs used as food for sows and piglets, and contaminated waterways because of feces created by the animals.
The book was about a boy named Salva, and a girl named Nya. They're both from Sudan, and have faced many struggles to survive.
Salva especially had to go through some rough times in his life.
I liked how it had two parts of the story.
I would recommend people to read this book.
I liked how we all got to read a book together.
If we were to do this again, I'd rather prefer if the group got to choose its own book to read.
I think it would be sort of better, because the group actually wants to read the book together.
فوق العاده تاثیر گذار و خواندنی کتاب ترسناکی بود نه از نظر ژانر بلکه از نظر ماجراهایی که فقط چند کشو
This book startled me. Women and girls in South Sudan still walk miles just to get a drink of water for their family?! They have to suffer from the intense heat of the sun and the thorns only for a basic need. I am under a roof that protects me from all the storms and rain, not needing to think about basic supplies, but on the other side of the world, it's a whole lot different. I am sure you guys are like me but have you thought of helping them?
