https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/796429.The_Three_Pillars_of_Zen
Now I’m looking into Zen, which I’ve always put off doing because I thought it would be prohibitively demanding.There is a disparity in what is considered effective practice by the two main schools of Zen, Soto and Rinzai.
(See his Zen Mind, Beginners Mind, considered a classic.) For example, there is language in the Introduction which connotes grasping, seeking attainment, and pride in one’s spiritual elevation.Fortunately, this rodomontade disappears in the early section on practical advice from Yasutani-roshi, introducer Kapleau’s master, who relays in 12 short chapters much about the current practice of Zen. The stages are laid out for those starting zazen.
This book helped me tremendously, it spoke to my conceptual mind and answered many of its questions so that I could continue to practice without over thinking, if this makes any sense at all.
It is rather a dry book, until you start practicing a bit, and attending a zen center or have a teacher of some sort.
I think by itself the book could introduce even more questions, actually initiating "counter productivity", I simply mean to say that one "should" take this as a static representation of what is fluid.
Must read for meditation practitioners. The book clearly explains in details all things about Japanese Zen. It is very useful, helpful for people who are learning and practicing Zen / Buddhism meditation.I will have to re-read it. As I can't consume everything in the first read. It's great though.PDF for Vietnamese edition is here:http://thuvienhoasen.org/a15561/ba-tr...
In describing his own experiences and the experiences of other students set out in the book, Kapleau gives a good picture of the discontent and the suffering -- arising from an experience of death, illness, restlessness, or disillusion -- that lead him to leave his established life in 1953 and search for meaning in Zen. The discussion in the book (never stated explicitly) of why people look to Zen and how Zen responds to the needs of its seekers is what gives meaning to the book.The book describes long hours, months and years of sitting in monasteries.
Spiritual books often rely on a variety of literary devices; biography, testimony, instruction and problem statements for contemplation.
Reading this one wonders if a spiritual doctrine like this formed the basis of the western world.
It's devoid of the political, often war like passages in the bible; it focuses on internal development; and it emphasises peacefulness.
It's hard to imagine capitalism thriving in such a cultural basis but the cost of the idea of righteousness through political force may have been avoided.
The book itself emphasises finding a teacher or community but lacking that one could begin a practice with determination.
This is followed by a series of transcripts of interviews between teacher and student during a sesshin - it functions like FAQs of zazen.
However, the struggles of these students are quite inspiring - real questions, issues and problems and how they are faced or not by the individual.
This is followed by a selection of letters that show how the experiences described today are very similar to those of earlier 'sitters'.
This makes the reader feel that the type of full on spiritual warfare described by these sitters is the only way to move forward.
A fairly good book on Zen, especially as it focuses so much on the practice of zazen. Nonetheless, it is a bit long and repetitive for how much it emphasizes the uselessness of discursive intellect.
Son remotas las posibilidades que encuentres superficialidades: habla del amor al prójimo, del camino personal (todo es un proceso al que nada escapa: vida-muerte, enfermedades, sentimientos, olvidos), de las "detours" humanos, del desarraigo, de desaprender lo aprendido, de olvidar lo olvidable, de nuestra trascendencia.Lo terminé de leer, efectivamente arriba de un inamovible cerro salteño.
Ese momento lo recuerdo humilde, en un acto insignificante: mi linterna minera apuntando uno de los últimos capítulos, con guantes en las manos, envuelto la mitad de mi cuerpo en una bolsa de dormir y rodeado en nubes y de un frío glacial: cuando lo terminé tuve una confirmación: lo insignificante que somos nosotros: la raza humana.
Since I wasn't really considering becoming a Zen student before reading it, and am definitely not considering it now, I don't fall into the target audience.
It's an explanation of practice, not of concepts, since the goal of practice is to understand that all concepts are delusions.
Since their delusion is what I see as the foundation of reality, and vice versa, I'm of course left with thoughts after reading this that are not at all in the spirit of Zen and very much in the spirit of me, but unfamiliar nonetheless.
This is like the wave-particle duality in physics and also like the Christian teaching that although we must live in this world we are not of this world.- “Zen tells us that the is is holy and the Void is home, but such affirmations are not Zen. Rather, Zen is a method for attaining to the direct experience of the truth of these affirmations.”- “The import of every koan is the same: that the world is one interdependent Whole and that each separate one of us is that Whole.”- “With enlightenment you see the world as Buddha-nature, but this does not mean that all becomes as radiant as a halo.
I could get no consistent sense of inspiration from here. Possibly, this partly arises from my training in and teaching of meditation being different, less 'militant,' more relaxed, being with the flow and not pushing toward enlightenment experiences, in fact no experiences whatever. I recognize Zen practice covers a wide spectrum, as do other wisdom traditions, and this represents only a slice of the total Zen cake. Peace!
Clear, careful, detailed exposition of Zen practice (as opposed to Zen philosophy) and the varieties thereof. For those who aren't familiar with the author (Kapleau), he was the founder of the Rochester Zen Center--one of the earliest Zen institutions to be established in America.
You'll find in this book translated talks of Kapleau's own teacher Yasutani Roshi, and also Yasutani's personal teachings with ten different westerners.
This section gives 8 different accounts of people from varying ages and occupations and their first person accounts of enlightenment.
The last thing I would like to say is that ultimately no book can convey the true nature of Zen or teach you how to attain it.
But while no book can do these things for you this book certainly serves as a nice map to give you instructions to start on the path and then hopefully...ultimately burn the book itself.
I have a feeling that this is a great book, badly organized. At least, I couldn't follow any clear progression of thought -- the 'lectures' seemed random to me. But maybe that's because I'm not enlightened enough. It seemed to be everything you need to know about Zen crammed into one place. Nonetheless, the section on zazen is very useful; the illustrations of posture are excellent, and the questions and answers helpful to the novice. A good book for dipping into, hunting for specific information you need, just not for reading straight through. But there must be a lesson there....
There are many spiritual moments in this book. It is inspirational and long lived in history as well as individual lives. By the time you are finished you come to realize that in the bottom foundation, there is not much difference between Christianity and Buddhism. It is about the human search for peace and spiritual knowledge of being. This is ancient spirituality. Pretty cool for someone who is curious and open minded to all perspectives of achieving a purposeful and "good" life.
This is really a collection of lectures, letters, commentaries, and essays, compiled by the founder of the Rochester Zen Center in an effort to introduce Zen Buddhism to the Western mind. Highly recommendable for the breadth of information it contains and its accessibility. Whatever your level of interest in Zen, this is a worthy read.
So this would have been passed down from person to person for awhile, keeping a perspective formed just after the 2nd world war and at the dawn of the nuclear age there for curious seekers to find it.One thing that's interesting is how little the modern medicalized view of the human brain seems to have affected the participants in this book.
It's unclear how well they did on that score but given how terrible our current approach actually works on things like "depression" it's worth considering that they at least claimed some success in dealing with makyo/disruptive illusions/delusions/disorder.
I'm also glad he pointed out the shallow nature of some other schools/authors that is passed off as "Zen", and which normally involves zero practical work.
The only criticism I have on this book is that the "Buddhism" spoken about here is a particularly Japanese/Mahayana style that does not necessarily reflect the true history of Buddhism, or what is practiced and given as 'true' in other authentic Buddhist schools of thought (such as in Theravada Buddhism).
My other comment would be that this book (or style of Buddhism) downplays the importance of Metta (Loving-Kindness) practices and other essential Buddhist practices (such as analytic dialogue) as something not as essential as meditation.
Wonderful book.
After having read Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind, I was drawn to this book in order to learn more.
One of my favorite aspects is that it gives you a peek into monastic life and practice, shesshin, and Dokusan as if you were a little fly in the room, giving you a glimpse of such intimate conversations.
And, of course, Kapleau's explanations as to the basics of Zen are elucidating.
The part about zazen (sitting meditation) practice are thorough, going over sitting positions, how to follow the breath, and how to address common problems.
This book should be heralded as a modern classic in a league with the likes of Shogun by Clavell. It takes a deep and thorough look into the great eastern way of spiritual transcendence. It uses letters, testimonials, fact-finding from hundreds of years and for anyone that wants to look inward for purpose in life it provides a narrative to a path.
This is a far-reaching examination of numerous Zen traditions, lectures, personal essays, and advice taken from periods ranging from the 1200s to the modern era. It's dense, informative, but I wouldn't recommend it for beginners since the concepts and terminology can be difficult for those first coming to the practice.
Một quyển sách rất hay cho những ai quan tâm tới Thiền và tu tập Thiền mà chưa có điều kiện đi học một khóa học nghiêm túc. Cuốn sách cung cấp cho bạn đọc những khái niệm cơ bản nhất về thiền đồng thời một số kinh nghiệm thiền và kinh nghiệm chứng ngộ của một số cá nhân.
A wonderful introduction to Zen Buddhism for anyone looking into practice and theory. From many academics I look up to they say this is the best western book on Zen out there, I would have to agree with them.
Un libro muy completo sobre el budismo zen. Puede resultar un poco largo por la cantidad de información que se repite.
4.6
Haven't finished.Dogmatic.Not what zen is about.
Pretentious nonsense. I'm really glad this wasn't the first book I picked up on Zen, it's terrible.
For me, a bit too (unnecessarily) intellectual and discursive.
mu
Great overview of Zen enlightenment and how various people have found what they already have
