https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18869992-the-du-mauriers
Di Morjē neinteresēja nosacītais "mūsdienu" romāns un, pēckara gados nākot tam modē, viņa sūkstījās par savu iziešanu no aprites.
No mana viedokļa di Morjē vēsturiskie romāni nav tik spēcīgi, taču konkrētais "The du Mauriers" ir uz robežas starp romānu un dzimtas vēsturi, konkrētāk - tā ir di Morjē dzimtas sāga beletrizētā formā, kas daiļdarba uzrakstīšanas brīdī (1937) bija gana novatoriska.
Centrālais tēls romānā ir Dafnes vectēvs Džordžs di Morjē - sava laika pazīstams karikatūrists un arī pāris slavenu romānu autors - taču stāstījums sākas ar atkāpi līdz pat Džordža vecaimātei Mērijai Ennai, kas bija Anglijas karaliskās ģimenes kurtizāne.Di Morjē ir lieliska raksturotāja, viņas tēli ir dzīvi un darbīgi.
An enchanting account of Daphne du Maurier's family -- starting with the slum-goddess Mary Anne who tantalizes a Duke, and ending with her grandson, George du Maurier, noted caricaturist and author of Trilby (and incidentally a great friend of James, "Jimmie," Whistler.) Du Maurier's ability to inhabit her characters, is extraordinary; and by the end of this short book, I hated to part with any of them.
Un'opera acerba ma allo stesso tempo interessante,non solo per le figure femminili estremamente caratterizzate ma anche per lo sviluppo delle tematiche familiari, soprattutto per quanto riguarda il rapporto genitore-figlio, e per la puntuale descrizione di un'epoca ottocentesca con le sue contraddizioni e imperfezioni.
Novelized historical saga of the du Maurier family by a scion of theirs.
Pleasant, easy read; lots of conversations, which I assume were fictionalized, and, later in the story, excerpted letters, which I assume were not.
I dimly recall reading du Maurier's Mary Anne, which I believe was far more fictionalized than this, but this is still definitely fiction rather than history.
Not sorry I read it, but not a reread.
Wonderful and exciting biography
A novelization based on Daphne Du Maurier, great grandmother, grandmother and father.
It is more on her grand mother and her father as her great grandmother already have a standalone book on her own.
Her great grandmother, Mary Anne Clarke was a mistress to the Duke of York.
Her grandfather Louis Mathurin married Mary daughter, Ellen.
Louis Mathurin was a dreamer and good for nothing kinda person while Ellen is a person long disillusioned by life due to the exposure she got from her mother world.
Not everyone could be Mary Anne.

A novelized account of DuMaurier's family history, starting with Mary Anne Clarke, mistress of the Duke of York at the beginning of the nineteenth century.
The most astounding revelation is that at least three generations of DuMauriers were able to essentially live off the hush money she received: not because it was a lot (at least it doesn't sound like it was)but because three generations of DuMauriers were incapable of gainful employment.
Between that and the rest of the family's attempts to leech off various friends and relatives, this book should keep most people's interest until the end.
It's difficult to assign a genre to this, but my instinct is to ascribe it to historical fiction. It's often put under non-fiction, and biography, but these stories of her ancestors are really quite fictionalised, it seems to me - in their thoughts and emotions and so on. Just because a story's about a historical personage doesn't make it strictly biographical, I think. Certainly the biographies I read tend to have more of the reference about them.Either way, it's an interesting read. The family members are certainly entertaining characters!
Biographical, yes. A clear picture of the DuMauriers, not so much. Wonderfully written for the most part, of course. A great read, no. A perfectly wonderful read for anyone who is a lifelong fan of Daphne Du Maurier, absolutely. Makes the reader more eager than ever to learn more of the fascinating family and their background.
A biography written by Daphne du Maurier when she was famous. The du Mauriers were an artistic, interesting family. Daphne pulls no punches in her biographies, and makes her family believable and human.
A family history as suggested by the name with characters brought vividly to life by Daphne Du Maurier. Very interesting at the beginning but it becomes a bit of a drag midway through the book.
