https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/724994.A_Pirate_s_Love
In fact, I really like raping you daily.SOV - this sucksrapist - speaking of which...*SOV actually does something and escapes, is miraculously picked up by a passing ship, mistaken for a boy and captured by a press gang, escapes, is captured by the first would be rapist, escapes, and finds her way to the home of her fiancee*SOV - I'm saved!fiancee (hearafter referred to a douche bag or DB) - Oh. Well, um...SOV - it was terrible!
You remind me of a certain sailor I used to know...rapist - if you don't mind, I'm going to strip your daughter, tie her up, keep her imprisoned, and screw her six ways to sunday every chance I get.mom - you two have fun!SOV - mom!
If you extremely loved this book, or a die-hard Johanna Lindsey fan, please do not continue.Welcome, welcome!Do you honestly think that your life is seriously fucked up?Then please come on down and take the Bettina Verlaine My-Life-Sucks meter! This is an effective way to measure if you’re luckier than the rest or if your life sucks enough that you should contemplate suicide.Following questions are answerable by yes or no only:1. Are you unloved by either or both of your parents?2. Do you have t
If you extremely loved this book, or a die-hard Johanna Lindsey fan, please do not continue.Welcome, welcome!Do you honestly think that your life is seriously fucked up?Then please come on down and take the Bettina Verlaine My-Life-Sucks meter!
i.	Escape being a cabin boy,but end up at the clutches of the man who almost raped you?
Did you end up loving the same pirate who raped you?
If predominant answers are NO, you should be cheery for Bettine Verlaine’s life is seriously worse than yours.If predominant answers are YES, then your life is seriously fucked up, but never fear for Bettina Verlaine survived all these tragedies and I bet you will too.I, on the other hand, enjoyed Johanna Lindsey’s novels once upon a time.
do you prefer your rape scenes to be written by an author who apparently has no personal experience with the topic and has had no one in her life impacted by it either, and so you can have tidy little rape scenes that are delivered in a voice totally devoid of understanding, of meaning, a voice that is totally unconscious of the truly debilitating and potentially lifelong consequences of such an assault?
well, dear reader, consider this to be your personal recommendation and introduction to the rape-athon known as A Pirate's Love.i have had some bad luck with the Romance genre.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || Pinterest💙 I read this for the Unapologetic Romance Readers' New Years 2018 Reading Challenge, for the category of: Pirate Romance. For more info on this challenge, click here. 💙Highbrow this is not, but that didn't stop me from buying it and enjoying it. A PIRATE'S LOVE is a 1970s bodice ripper, which you can usually take to mean that it contains a whopping dash of WTF and a hero who quaffs misogyny like he's trying to get drunk on woman-hating. I
All of that changes of course when she decides that she loves him and then it's nonstop angst, but for most of the book, I really appreciated her spitfire nature as she has 50% more spine than other heroines in comparable books.Tristan also has an Inigo Montoya thing going on where he's seeking out the man who scarred his face and killed his father (and his mother).
This book actually came out before Princess Bride, but the similarity amused me, and Tristan's ruthless pursuit of Bastida amused me, particularly when the search yields two more plot twists that I didn't see coming - one about Bettina's would-be fiance, and another about her father.
This book has a better hero and heroine and came damn close to 4 stars.
This book should be called A Dread Pirate Raperson from Rapeytown's Rapey Love...
Bettina, Godblesser, tries to escape 75 times.
In first third of the book I'm sure it says "rape" 40 times.
I cackled a few times, but really the bulk of this book is about her being raped and a lot of talk trying to justify her rapes.
And then she marries her rapist and it's all good.Lindsey, woman.
FYI - I had to force myself to take a lighthearted approach to this book, cause serious;y there's a whole bunch of justifying rape in this bitch.
HORRIBLE!DID I REALLY FUCKING READ THIS BOOK. I'M EMBARRASSED.Maybe I read it to see if she could turn around this horrible story. Unfortunately for me, she did not even attempt it.HORRIBLE.SENT AWAY FROM HER FAMILY.KIDNAPPED BY PIRATESRAPERAPETRICKEDRAPERAPERAPETEMPER TANTRUMRAPERAPELOCKED IN A HOUSE, ON A PIRATE OWNED ISLANDRAPERAPEESCAPEDALMOST RAPED BY DIFFERENT RAPISTFINDS MOTHER- TOLD FATHER IS DEADRESCUED BY PIRATE RAPISTRAPERAPELOCKED AWAY WITHOUT CLOTHINGRAPERAPEY RAPEPREGGERSRAPERAPIST BRINGS IN ANOTHER WOMANNO RAPE *SIGH*CRYING FALLS IN LOVE WITH RAPIST *WHAT THE #@$% *FINDS LONG LOST "FATHER"RAPIST HAPPILY EVER RAPERYOU HAVE BEEN WARNED.
It was the start of my addiction for historical romance novels.I have seen all the negative reviews because of the rape scenes, but this book was written back in 1978.
Back then, in the romance writer's world it was called forced seduction, not rape.
Woodiwiss who will always be the Grand Dame of historical romances, also wrote a forced seduction book "The Flame and the Flower" and Laurie McBain also had the forced seduction scene as well.
I could go on for a long time naming all the great authors of the 1970s who wrote these "forced seduction" scenes.
Basically a girl is kidnapped and taken onto a pirate ship where the main romantic interest "rapes" her.
I say rape in quotes as a lot of the time I am unsure to whether it is.
I mean rape is sick and wrong but in this book I couldn't stop laughing.
Her first time he rapes her.
"I found it quite pleasent" okay lol.
I will fight you before you rape me again.
I mean who wouldn't want to be with this guy?
Your niece comes up to you and says "He raped me" and she's like.
I want an auntie like that!
I really shouldn't give this book four stars, because the violent rape of the heroine Bettina by the hero Tristan really disturbed me.
Plus this is part of my original collection of books that I've had for over twenty years.I thought Bettina was an interesting heroine, and had Tristan treated her more kindly, I would have liked him as well.
Rightly or wrongly, it was very common to have hero rape of the heroine in romances, hence the term 'bodice ripper.' That certainly doesn't justify it.
But I cannot in good conscience make this a five star book for the reason of those scenes.
Superbly Told Bodice Ripper—a Privateer and the Woman He Seized and Would Not Let GoSet in the 17th century beginning in France in 1667, this is the story of Tristan Matisse whose family was brutally slain by a Spaniard who plundered the coastal towns of France, and Bettina Verlaine, who was betrothed by her father to a wealthy count living in St. Martin.
On her way to meet her betrothed, who she does not know, Bettina’s ship is seized by the privateer Tristan who sails for England plundering Spanish ships.
2.5 StarsThe heroine annoyed the ever loving crap out of me. The hero was a rapist, I mean come on. There's no way to sugarcoat that. Everyone called it that, even when he would say 'I'm going to make love to you... whether you want it or not.' Uhh huh? The only part that really interested me was Bettina's pregnancy and whatever Tristan getting his revenge on Bastida.
Namun pada malam itu juga Bettina dan ibunya diculik oleh Tristan dan dibawa ke pulau milik Tristan.Cerita berlanjut, Bettina mengetahui dirinya hamil 2 bulan, namun Tristan yang sudah ditanamkan keraguan oleh Bettina (bahwa Bettina pernah tidur dengan Pierre) mencurigai bahwa itu bukan anaknya, tapi anak Pierre.
Pada saat itulah mereka akhirnya berbaikan.Belum surut kebahagiaan mereka, tiba-tiba Casey, sahabat Tristan, datang ke pulau tersebut dan terbukalah rahasia bahwa Casey adalah ayah kandung Bettina dan memaksa Tristan untuk menikahi putrinya dan tidak mengizinkan Tristan sekamar dengan Bettina jika Tristan tidak menikahi putrinya.
Tristan, dengan berat hati menerima pengaturan tidak sekamar itu (padahal itu di rumah Tristan sendiri, hihihihi).Setelah kelahiran anak Jules, sahabatnya, Tristan memutuskan untuk mencari Bastida kembali dan direstui kepergiannya oleh Bettina.
If you think so then you can enjoy this book immensely because it contains rape rape rape rape rape and rape.I can't think rape as romantic in any way because it's the worst crime possible on earth so i am sorry i just hate this book immensely.This book is fucked up horribly.......I was a fan of johanna lindsey after i read once a princess,secret fire,loving scoundrel but now after reading this grotesque book i hate her to the core.
The heroine gets abducted by the pirate Tristan and is raped by him continuosly every night for several months and at the end she gets pregnant and finally realises that she is in love...what the fuck is this.
Johanna Lindsey has been a favorite author of mine since I first read, "Say You Love Me".
What did bother me was that, unlike the characters in the novels I mentioned before, most of the interaction between the two main characters in this book consisted mainly of rape and the author didn't seem to take the time to show how the two developed feelings towards one another as time went on.
"I hate you." "I'm going to rape you." "I think I may be falling in love with you." WHAAAT???
I'll not likely be pulling this one out of the bookcase again any time soon.
Came across this book one more time.
And I still couldn't understand the high rating, where's the beauty of this "RAPE FESTIVAL" book????Grrr...
NONE!This book summary, Legalized RAPE.RAPE is okay.RAPE is legitSo it's okay to make a rapist as a hero, and yeah, the TSTL heroine seemed fall in love with that 'bad boy rapist' ...
*puke*This is the worst of the worst book I have ever read in my entire being.Seriously.!!!!And to make it worst, this is my favorite author, J.L. Which I adore because of The Malory Family.This one was just...
The emphasis of how beautiful she was got old very quickly.Her dumbness knew no bounds.She repeatedly tried to escape her captor(captain Tristan,the hero) , which obviously didnt work out because apparently our hero is omnipotent.he finds her everytime , and everytime she is either on the verge of getting killed or raped or both.But she remained foolishly unrelenting , and her plans were so fallible , i wanted to slap her for her 'triumph' at having come up with them ,(oh yeah , her optimism at her stupid escape plans and antics will make you want to cry in frustration)Yet everytime she went back to him, with the same supposedly 'fiery temper' of hers(frankly she sounded like an angst ridden 11 yr old with a limited vocabulary).Her mule headedness and her complete lack of self preservation( i guess we were supposed to think its bravery) made me want to stop reading it , many times, but i kept going,ignoring that voice in me that begged me to stop tormenting myself.
*Contains Spoilers*I am not a reader that enjoys tender romance. I like it hard! But he rape her a thousand of times. If you like that, then it's your book! LOL
Seriously, it was like the men had a to-do list that had rape listed somewhere between picking up their pirate dry cleaning and finally getting around to finishing that book.Like rape seemed to be the default way of having sex.
I don't understand how Lindsey ever became a thing outside of shock value, because she writes the most boring characters.
But Lindsey can not write a good bad boy.
He's still a selfish prick with control issues at the end.So by the end of this book the only characters I liked at all was her real father, and that's probably only because he was barely in the book.
On route they are attacked by pirates and the leader Tristan(26) kidnaps Bettina and rapes her, gets her pregnant and eventually falls in love with her.
Tristan is also searching for his parents killer Bastida.In most books with rape the hero knows the Heroine and has an excuse, OK, usually a lame despicable excuse like they thought she wasn't a virgin or they were married and it was his right etc, here JL tells it plainly Tristan wanted Bettina so he raped her minutes after meeting her!!
ETA: Maybe I should re-read this one.
Guess I'll put it in my re-reads shelf and maybe eventually get back to it.***original review***I am one of those who like the captor/captive, forced seduction, noncon type of romance.
BUT this is not one I liked.
If you want a better book on a similar theme by Lindsey, check out So Speaks the Heart.
It has more of what I like in that he rapes her once (not brutally) and then after that he wants her to come willingly.
I love Johanna Lindsey's books but this one disgusts me.
She made it clear he was raping her but everyone kept making excuses for him.The most annoying thing is that he saw his mother get raped and was on a revenge mission to kill the man yet he did the same and his line was "I may have raped her but I did not kill her husband in order to have her nor did I share her with my crew or kill her afterwards.
I kept her and she will bear my child and become my wife." Well as long as he rapes me, gets me pregnant, and marries me, I should fall in love with him.
Bettina Verlain, the heroine of the story, is abducted by the hero of the story (or maybe we can call him the main villain?) Captain Tristan, a sexy and handsome pirate.
(just for Bettina, cause for Tristan it's a wonderful voyage).Abundant with numerous rape scenes, no wonder feminists despise this novel.But this story is just another case of Stockholm Syndrome.
Eventually, Bettina falls in love with Tristan, and vice versa.A good romance novel usually makes female reader falls in love a bit with the main hero, but I think Captain Tristan Matisse doesn't have the hero material that needed.
Well, maybe it's understandable 'cause this novel is one of the first of Lindsey's.
I really didn’t like the biggest part of this book. The sad part is I really liked the setting in this book with the storyline. The only thing I couldn’t get past was the stubborn of both the hero and heroine. He continually rapes her while she antagonizes him more. I mean get a life Bettina at least you didn’t follow through with the brothel and had to deal with a mistress because he would have had one. Anyway they got their HEA and all things were good in the end.
Trashy, but enjoyable.
You have to read this just because it's so bad!This is a classic crap novel written in 1978!
It looks brand new, so I had no idea it was bad until I saw the reviews last night that drove me to this LOVELY novel!
I have no idea!This was sooo bad!
She says she's not and states that it will be rape everytime he comes to her.
They dicuss this, and everytime he comes to her, they discuss this rape, using the word rape, so there is no sugar coating it.
Stupid!He decides she should start to enjoy it so its not rape.
Pirate rescues woman from bad spaniard.
Tristan is a bit of a damaged soul as he has spent his whole life searching from a man named Batista who is responsible for murdering Tristan’s parents.
As in all such Books Bettina is a fiery strong willed women who makes Tristan’s life hard, teach him to keep her prisoner.
If he’s so obsessed with taking his revenge on Batista for murdering his parents along with the brutal rape of his mother, you think he would have been a bit more sensitive to not forcing himself onto Bettina.All in all though, even with the minor flaws this was a very enjoyable read with many fun characters.
Furthermore, the story's heroine went from wanting the hero dead for continuously raping her, to being madly in love with him and accepting a life as his whore in less than two chapters (which, at the time, was a scandalous thing for a "well-bred lady"), making the transition between hate to love hard to accept as natural.
The fact that the heroine's MOTHER and nanny thought she should love the man who took her virtue by force and then every night after (again, a much guarded thing for well-bred ladies at the time), did not do much to help the hate-to-love transition at all.
pertama2 saya ingin membaca buku ini untuk... riset O_o so i actually bought it, but then O________________________________________OI DID NOT FINISH THIS BOOK BECAUSE IT'S TOO DISGUSTING FOR WORDS JOHANNA LINDSEY WHAT THE HELL WERE YOU THINKING WHEN YOU WROTE THIS BOOK? BECAUSE EWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWW WOMAN I CAN'T EVEN I'M GONNA KILL YOU IN YOUR SLEEP D: kata hero-nya: bukan perkosaan kalau kamu tidak melawan. WHAT THE HEEEELLL??? LU UDAH NGANCEM HEROINE-NYA BILANG AKAN MEMBUNUH TAWANAN (yg sebenarn
pertama2 saya ingin membaca buku ini untuk...
BECAUSE EWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWW WOMAN I CAN'T EVEN I'M GONNA KILL YOU IN YOUR SLEEP D:
kata hero-nya: bukan perkosaan kalau kamu tidak melawan.
LU UDAH NGANCEM HEROINE-NYA BILANG AKAN MEMBUNUH TAWANAN (yg sebenarnya ga ada, jd ini justifikasi pengarang bahwa hero-nya orang yg 'baik' just kill me already...) KALAU DIA GAMAU MENURUTI KEINGINAN AND BILANG ITU BUKAN PERKOSAAN??????????????????????
UDAH GITU MELAKUKANNYA BERKALI2 PULAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!!!!!!!
(sbnernya ga yakin jg secara bacanya skimming saking jijinya X_X)really, the author of this book is a woman but she insulted women by writing her heroine like that!!!!!!!!
I'd venture to say that the pirate romance genre has got to be my least favorite, as I've read two books in the last month with that theme, and both were awful for the same reason - women are the spoils of war.
But that's the reason why reading any romance written before the mid-90's is such a crap shoot.
I found this book a stressful read - not only the rape theme, but when she does manage to escape, she goes from being nearly raped to being nearly killed, over and over almost to (dark) comic effect.
I originally read this book back when i was a teen--swiped it from my mom.I hate to admit this, but back then I liked it.
AHHHHHHHHHH, please don't throw tomatoes at me--I was young and didn't know much about sex and romance...and stuff.Well, I recently read this book again and I'm horrified.
I know what was acceptable in romance novels back when this book was written is different from what is acceptable in romance novels today, but seriously?
And lot's of rape?I have read other reviews from other readers who have summed this book up better than I can so I won't even try.My two star rating says it all.
