https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19311.The_Children_of_Noisy_Village

The Children of Noisy Village makes a nice substitute when you’re ailing.The six children of Noisy Village — 9-year-old Lisa; her mischievous older brothers, Karl and Bill; and neighbors Anna, Britta, and Olaf — don’t live in an actual village at all, but in a grouping of three farmhouses, as was the way in Sweden long ago, unlike in America where farms were spaced out.
Set in a time before electricity or automobiles made their way to rural Sweden, The Children of Noisy Village is as healing as hot tea, chicken soup, or a cool hand on your fevered forehead.
The Noisy Village series (well actually, the German language translation of Astrid Lindgren's original Swedish text, and where the hamlet is known as Bullerbü) was one of my absolute favourites when I was a little girl (I must have read all three books at least ten times, and that is a conservative estimate).
And thus, I firmly believe that it is high time for a new English language translation of the Noisy Village series, namely one that keeps to the original, and does not arbitrarily omit entire chapters!
I loved this account of day to day Swedish life. Asrid Lindgren captures perfectly the relationship between friends and the rivalry between brother and sister. We loved the details of games played, dens built and festivals celebrated. We really didn't like Tony Ross's illustrations, their modern style just didn't suit the traditional nature of the stories.We love Bullerby, we would happily move there tomorrow and if that wasn't possible would happily read this book again and imagine!
Kousek falunské uzenky, té nejlepší ❤
I'm not sure when I've read a children's book that was so delightful.
New books smell so good that you can tell how much fun it's going to be to read them.The day after we baked the ginger snaps was fun too, for then we went to the forest to cut the Christmas trees.
All the fathers go along when we cut the Christmas trees--and all the children too, of course.
Karl said that times like those hours in the afternoon of Christmas Eve, when you don't do anything but wait and wait, are the kind of things people get gray hairs from.
Pati rašytoja prisimindama savo vaikystę yra sakiusi ,,Mes tiek žaisdavom,žaisdavom, żaisdavom ir żaisdavom,jog reikia stebėtis,kaip gi mes neužsižaisdavim iki mirties". Visgi, knygoj aprašoma kiek kitokia-labiau senelių,mamų, tėčių ir šiek tiek mano vaikystė ( pasisekė,kad augau kaime). Ne tokia moderni, nevarżoma šiuolaikiškų draudimų (telefono, televizoriaus ar šviesoforo). Amżinoji vaikystė, pilna visokio gero.
Moje milované Děti z Bllerbynu. Byly doby, kdy jsem na té knize ujížděla,jak na nějaké droze. Myslela jsem si,že už jí znám vážně nazpaměť a ejhle ono je v ní stále co objevovat. Nostlagie největší. Asi si ji zarámuju a pověsím nad postel :-)
[1984]Libro raccontante le storie di 6 bambini che abitano un piccolissimo paese immaginario di tre case.
I had never read this book before, in fact: I'd never heard of it until a few months ago. It's a sweet little book, about the lives of a group of children who live on three neighboring farms. It's written in a very simple style, ostensibly by one of the children, Lisa, who describes different traditions and aspects of their life. This would be a great first chapter book. It's 123 pages, with illustrations in each short chapter.
Underbar bok!
When I first brought this book home from the library (based entirely on GR reviews), my 6-year-old son said it looked "lame." However...after I persisted in reading the first few chapters, he was completely won over.
The Children of the title are three girls and three boys, ranging in age from 9 to 11: the narrator, Lisa, her two older brothers, a set of sisters who live on one side and a boy (who has a toddler sister) on the other side.
There's no real plot, although each chapter has a theme and tells a little story.
The book just rambles on, much like childhood.
This is as lovely as I remember it being. A cute, light-hearted bunch of stories about kids growing up in Sweden. My mom used to read the Polish version to me when I was a kid. Definitely something I could see myself reading to my future children.
Bullerbyn kids series were the books I really fond of when I was a little kido. And the memories never fade away. I read this thousand times and will remember the laughters. All of the kids are cheerful, smart, witty, caring, adventurous and humble at once.
My favourite children book series of all those books I ever read, if I have grand children, I must get it for them. Lives of 6 children in a tiny hamlet in Sweden, in Czech with beautiful illustrations of a Czech artist Zmatlikova, I read those books again and again.
Den er så hyggelig.
Já vím, číst Děti z Bullerbynu v 16-ti letech... Jo, jsem případ. :D
As an editor notes at the end, the episode involving stealing eggs from nests and blowing them woudl these days be both illegal and considered in a very different light to back in the 1940s, but I'm glad it was left in - it's good to be able to share such acts and explain how times have changed.
Times may change, but children don't, and this is a lovely collection of short adventures to show today's children what their grandparents young lives (or those of their contemporaries) may have been like.
As a child, this book was a favorite after discovering it in 3rd grade.
I discovered it again, years later, in the English language section of a bookshop in Stuttgart, Germany.
Now, I'm pleased to find it again in yet another phase of life.
When rereading childhood favorites, I'm always a bit nervous that they won't hold up.
I was not disappointed.
The Children of Noisy Village is just as delightful and happily nostalgic as it always was.
I'm happy to have found it again at the library (the shoddy shape it was in only indicates that it is well loved here as well!) and will likely be purchasing yet another copy in the near future.
I am probably rating this one more for me than Norah. I have always adored Pippi Longstocking, but hadn't read this one before. not as many pictures as Captain Underpants, but it still held her interest enough to be a good read aloud while she colored or ate lunch, etc. It helped that two characters are named Anna and Olaf. ;)I thought it was a sweet read that reminded me of the Little House books
I read this with Gwen (6yo) and it was pure fun! It's about a girl, Lisa, who lives in a little farm town in Sweden. She has many adventures with her friends. I liked learning about the Swedish holiday celebrations. Seeing them through Lisa's eyes was sweet and Gwen could totally relate. I laughed so hard at the chapter about "helping people."
Amusing short stories providing an insight into the life of children in rural Sweden at some point in the past. Lots of launchpads for further exploration into Swedish traditions. Great for year 3 children - I'll be recommending it to my 7 year old!
Alle vi børn i Bulderby er en række af bøger jeg som barn i starten af 00erne elskede at få læst højt af mine forældre. Jeg knuselsker stadig hele det univers Astrid Lindgren skabte om Lisa, Lasse, Bosse, Anna, Britta og Ole. Så det var en skøn genlæsning der duftede af barndom.
Alle vi børn i Bulderby er en række af bøger jeg som barn i starten af 00´erne elskede at få læst højt af mine forældre. Jeg knuselsker stadig hele det univers Astrid Lindgren skabte om Lisa, Lasse, Bosse, Anna, Britta og Ole. Så det var en skøn genlæsning der duftede af barndom.
L
Auf dem Heuboden schlafen, Hütten bauen oder Rüben ziehen, den sechs Kindern wird es niemals langweilig, denn sie sind die Kinder aus Bullerbü.Meinung:Manche Geschichten sind zeitlos.
Der Klassiker "Wir Kinder aus Bullerbü" von Kinderbuchautorin Astrid Lindgren ist zeitlos und bietet kleine Geschichten mit Herz.
Genau aus diesem Grund, ist es niemals zu spät, zusammen mit Lisa, Inga, Britta, Ole, Lasse und Bosse im Heu zu schlafen, durch den Schnee zu stampfen oder Rüben zu ziehen, denn dieses Buch bietet genug Abenteuer für jung und alt und verpackt dabei Themen, die wichtig sind, die mitten aus dem Leben sind, die man einfach nie aus den Augen verlieren sollte.
Charming.
Such a charming book. I wish I had grown up in Noisy Village instead of the boring suburbs. I would've been a different person, I do believe!A true classic.
I first read this book when I was 9, maybe 10. I adored it a lot and I was sad I lost my copy over the years. I got a copy (in English this time) recently and as I re-read the book, it was just as magical as the first time. Definite childhood favourite!
روایتی از یک دهکده و شخصیت های کودکانه اش، شاد ، صمیمی و کودکانه. ولی توقع بیشتری از آسترید داشتم. همچنان پسرم می یو رو توی کارای کودکی که ازش خوندم بیشتر دوست دارم
Den första bok jag läste på svenska. Den var kanska hård att först men blev lättare när jag läste mer. Jag tycker att jag ska läsa mera på svenska senare!
