https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152987.Italian_Food
I like that David doesn't dumb down the recipes for readers and already assumes some knowledge of cooking and general kitchen skills.
The "recipes" are more like small nuggets of ideas that can be used to spark creativity in the kitchen.The book was also pretty funny in how anti-French it was.
David clearly sees a bias towards French cooking from her research and on her trips to the boot-shaped country.
I guess England was not as international-food friendly back then.Disclaimer: I skipped the section of the book about land meat and game, because I don't usually cook or eat those animals anymore.
A wonderful long weekend with a well-read, well-traveled, charming, engaging friend reminiscing about our times together eating our way through Italy. That is how I felt about this book. I am going to try several of the recipes and read several of her recommended books,, but mostly I loved this for its ability to transport me to to Italy and England in her care.
So, I was a bit disappointed...however, in her own right, David does tell a few anecdotal stories that will help (ex: in her opinion, Venice has the best food market in all of Italy, but you need to get up pretty early to see the action).
Sure, she doesn't give measurements, but she explains early in the book that traditional Italian cooks all had different ways to measure the same recipes, so there was no real point in taking away from the authentic style of Italian cooking.
I have owned this book since it first came out in paperback in 1965.
I have to confess have not read it from cover to cover as I do these days.The Pizza Napoletana is one of my favourites.The book was first written in 1954 so many of its pages will be a little outdated now although I am sure there have been more recent revisions David is still one of the greatest food writers of her generation and her books inspired me to break out and make the preparation of food a fun occupation and not a chore.
I think, despite it's age you'll get plenty of enjoyment from it,
If you care about food, hunger for authenticity and context, and you're not afraid of a little ambiguity, you owe it to yourself to read Elizabeth David's Italian Food and French Provincal Cooking. Elizabeth David's books, along with Richard Olney's Simple French Food, were the inspirations behind Chez Panisse and indirectly helped to spark America's interest in what it puts in its mouth.
The best
It is still a delight to read Elizabeth David. This book first published in 1954 still works, surprisingly, as a great introduction into genuine Italian cooking, but has become an interesting piece of British culinary history. How the food scene has changed over the last sixty years… At least in Britain, less so in Italy.And then there is Mrs David's language. It is beautiful, elegant, precise. And often amusing, in a very British, understated kind of way.
Fantastic recipes done in the original ways
food italian is very delicious like this book!!
A must-have for those interested in reading about early Italian cooking. What a terrible shame that Renato Guttuso's original drawings for this book have been banned from inclusion. It's worth reading "Midnight in Sicily" for additional background information on this.
Lovely, historical and so interesting. Worth owning so I can go back and re-read parts. I love the fact her "voice" comes through so clearly in her writing. The version I have also has her 1962 "update" so fun to see where she disagrees with her earlier self.
This is a classic book on traditional Italian cooking, worth reading for its introductions as much as the actual recipes. I won't cook most of the recipes (feral pig bbq, anyone?) but did copy down a few.
"Orioli also describes seeing a woman at Genazzano in Calabria at the public fountain, washing what appeared to be a large white fur or woollen blanket; it was an entire ox tripe, and she was bashing it against the marble basin of the fountain."
Elizabeth David has long had the reputation as a good literary stylist, but I've never found her readable. Her prose suffers from the two great flaws of the artistic personality, namely fuzzy-headed thinking and too much free-associating.
A classic. My copy is a well-thumbed treasure which I have used for over 25 years, although I now know the some of the recipes by heart. Chicken Risotto is very special.
Again not just a cookbook, a good read. ( perhaps with a glass of wine, some olives, a few..... )
There are a number of Italian cook books I use more than this one but it has some interesting recipes. Her Veronese mushroom sauce is a favourite of mine I've never seen elsewhere.
This book is about the truth of Italian cooking verses the fictions of the nineteen fifties and sixties. It a fascinating historical object and David has a strong voice.
One of the first books on Italian cooking, and still one of the best. The seminal work of this genre. Still relevant 60 years on.
essential
This book is about the truth of Italian cooking verses the fictions of the nineteen fifties and sixties. It a fascinating historical object and David has a strong voice.
This was one of the books that started me on my love of cooking. It brought back memories of childhood journeys through Italy, and influenced my way of cooking for well on 40 years.
Timeless classic. I'll never stop reading it.
A fantastic book of Italian cooking--simple recipes that will teach you to use your senses when you're cooking, and not measuring cups and spoons.
My favourite cook book.
Don't read on empty belly.
If you are wanting to learn about and cook Italian food; this is the book you need. It's much more than a 'cookbook'. A classic, must-have book for any foodie. 5* without hesitation.
