https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32781.War_and_the_Iliad
An inexhaustible little collection, in which three heavyweights, all war refugees – Simone Weil, Rachel Bespaloff, and Hermann Broch – seek the meaning of their own “dark times” in the verses of Homer.For those dreamers who considered that force, thanks to progress, would soon be a thing of the past, the Iliad could appear as a historical document; for others, whose powers of recognition are more acute and who perceive force, today as yesterday, at the very center of human history, the Iliad is the purest and loveliest of mirrors.*The three essays are coincident or directly responsive: Bespaloff knew of Weil’s, and Broch’s begins as an appreciation of Bespaloff’s.
0: general bit I assume (view spoiler)[ a bad habit, as it makes an ass out of u and me (view spoiler)[ sorry, an old joke - even if not Homerically old  (hide spoiler)] (hide spoiler)] that if I was to tell you that there was a collection of essays written during the second World War about the Iliad, that you'd form a certain impression of what those essays would be about, however I'm moderately certain that what one imagines - unless you already know of the authors would not give you a good idea of what these essays actually contain - they don't point to the reality of living through a war and reading a poem about war at the same time.The key feature instead that all three writers were of Jewish heritage, Broch converted to Catholicism, Weil's family had been Catholic, Bespaloff by contract had moved geographically rather than spiritually from Ukraine to France.
Simone Weil's essay was brilliant, and I feel sorry for those poor authors who had their work put after it. Only partly a work of classical scholarship and more of a prose-poem on the dehumanizing use of force in war. It's powerful, tortured, a means for Weil to grapple with the events unfolding around her in France 1940.
"Sing, goddess, the anger of Peleus’ son Achilleusand its devastation, which put pains thousandfold upon the Achaians,hurled in their multitudes to the house of Hades strong soulsof heroes, but gave their bodies to be the delicate feastingof dogs, of all birds, and the will of Zeus was accomplishedsince that time when first there stood in division of conflictAtreus’ son the lord of men and brilliant Achilleus." Three vastly different essayistic approaches to The Iliad are united in this collect
While Weil and Bespaloff never met each other, and had no knowledge of the fact each was writing on The Iliad, both their essays were written roughly at the same time, if not published simultaneously.
More prose poem than essay, Weil’s The Iliad, or the Poem of Force concisely sets up the theme of her sweeping piece in the first couple of lines:
In this work at all times, the human spirit is shown as modified by its relation to force, as swept away, blinded, by the very force it imagined it could handle, as deformed by the weight of the force it submits to."
She is also less insistent on the dehumanising power of violence, I think, when she points out that the gods preserve Hector’s body – if he is a “thing”, then he is a thing divine or at least adored.Both writers are impressed by the lack of partiality in The Iliad, the absence of race-ism or nationalism (of course, in a way it is aboutnationalism, but the author position is free from it – everyone is equal and equally human in Homer), and Bespaloff elaborates this in her interpretation: All [people] live in affliction: there is no basis for true equality.
In a way though it made me sad to read this essay, because I realized once again how few women write like this, absolutely sure of their superior intellect and expertise, and with absolute authority, and without a hint of apology for taking command of their thesis and telling the reader what’s what.
No throat clearing clauses like “I’m not sure but” or “It’s possible that…”.
In her case I disagree with most of what she writes but I still love what I would call her …a word comes to mind…see, here is the problem, the word that comes to mind is “I love her ballsy-ness.” My language for the act of writing with unapologetic authority is corrupted by a learned cultural sense that to write this way is inherently male.
Mary McCarthy's translation of Weil's "Iliad, or the Poem of Force" I first read in a house McCarthy had visited, as had Elizabeth Bishop; it was the house of their Vassar '33 classmate, and my departmental colleague Rhoda Sheehan on River Road, Westport Harbor.
The Iliad formulated the principle long before the Gospels did, and in almost the same terms: 'Ares is just, and kills those who kill.'" My Andrew Marvell put this principle best in his Horatian Ode on Cromwell's Return: "Those same Arts that did gain/ A Pow'r must it maintain."  Weill finds mostly no time in battle for reflection, and: "Where there is no room for reflection, there is none either for justice or prudence." The main subject of Greek thought is "This retribution, which has a geometrical rigor, which operates automatically to penalize the abuse of force…" It is the soul of the epic, Aeschylus's Nemesis, etc.
Their insights were similar and yet looked at the poem from completely different angles.Simone Weil was concerned with force and the Iliad as a story of war.
In this way war, force, victory, loss, slavery, and victimhood can be seen as the same thing.
Human suffering is seen as present in both conditions and is the way, Weil writes, how Greek tragedy morphed into the Gospels.
All this Weil sees as at odds with the poet.Rachel Bespaloff's concern is with the difference between poetry and history.
The heart of her essay, though, compares Homer (poetry) with Tolstoy (history) and therefore Helen with Anna, Troy with Moscow.
One is spectacular - Simone Weil's is wonderful, and adds substantially to my appreciation and understanding of the great epic.
An essay whose form is exciting, whose writing is incisive and clear, whose argument and topic is utterly convincing.One is merely passably good - Rachel Bespaloff's work.
But the essay ends with a section that, oddly, somehow, and in a very poor manner, discusses the role of the poet in society, and the prophet too, and relates the two to a discussion of how Homer's work and The Bible are similar and dissimilar.
The freaky / really interesting thing about the book was that it comprises 2 essays that were written at about the same time with approximately the same message just around the start of WW2 by 2 super intellectual female writers; but neither of them knew that the other one was writing the same type of essay.
Battles are fought and decided by men deprived of these faculties, men who have undergone a transformation, who have dropped either to the level of inert matter, which is pure passivity or to the level of blind force, which is pure momentum.
This book consists of two essays: Simone Weill's "The Iliad, or the Poem of Force" and Rachel Bespaloff's "On the Iliad," together with a shorter essay by the Austrian novelist Hermann Broch entitled "The Style of the Mythical Age: On Rachel Bespaloff." While I found the Broch essay misfiring at times, the Weil and Bespaloff essays -- written around the same time -- complement each other beautifully.In Homer's The Iliad, Weil sees an image of the violence that Europe was falling into before and during World War II.
I find her argument convincing that "Homer's characters are infinitely more complex than we suspect if we let the concentration and voluntary abbreviation of the classical style lead us astray."
By bringing together Weil's impassioned exploration of violence and Bespaloff's celebration of the domestic heroism of the Hospitality code, Christopher Benfey creates one of the most satisfying and beautiful works of criticism I've ever read.
This book offers me a model of faithful, Christian criticism, if only we can find what Bespaloff calls "a certain way of telling the truth, proclaiming the just, of seeking God and honoring man, that was first taught us and is taught us afresh every day by the Bible and by Homer."
The man who is the possessor of force seems to walk through a non-resistant element; in the human substance that surrounds him nothing has the power to impose, between the impulse and the act, the tiny interval that is reflection.
These men, wielding power, have no suspicion of the fact that the consequences of their deeds will at length come home to them -- they too will bow the neck in their turn.
Why should you refrain from taking Achilles' girl away from him if you know that neither he nor she can do anything but obey you?
Two essays: Simone Weil's "The Ilaid, or the Poem of Force," and Rachel Bespaloff's "On the Iliad." (There's also a small third essay that's a discussion of the Bespaloff piece.)The Weil essay is a hard-edged consideration of the psychological and emotional effects of war, not just on warriors, but on everyone it touches.
This essay has a place in any discussion of PTSD, "resilience," and war-related mental health, but it goes beyond those issues in its broader consideration of humanity (or, more accurately, its absence) in war.
Weil's essay is utterly brilliant, and it also caused me to appreciate the Iliad much more so than I did as a child. Bespaloff's essay is good, but it really can't compare to Weil's strong philosophical take on mankind and force. I thought about buttering up this review with more flowery language, but there is no need. It's simply brilliant. I wish Weil's work was not so difficult to get a hold of (financially speaking).
Weil's essay: 3.5Bespaloff's essay: 2.5
Weil's essay is Europe's last cry for help, appealing to the everlasting legacy that is Europe's first and greatest epic, The Iliad.Rachel Bespaloff's essay provides a much more thorough understanding of the epic, in all its contradictions of war and friendship, the mortality of the subject, and the eternity of his story.
The poem is a celebration of valor and nobility in times of extreme hardship and misfortune, that misery and toil are but preconditions to joy and justice—surely, in this way especially, is Bespaloff responding directly to Weil's essay in its, perhaps unexamined, full-on rejection of force.
I had Hannah Arendt's reflections on forgiveness in the back of my mind for almost the entire time I read Weil's essay.
Weil's essay is Europe's last cry for help, appealing to the everlasting legacy that is Europe's first and greatest epic, The Iliad.Rachel Bespaloff's essay provides a much more thorough understanding of the epic, in all its contradictions of war and friendship, the mortality of the subject, and the eternity of his story.
The poem is a celebration of valor and nobility in times of extreme hardship and misfortune, that misery and toil are but preconditions to joy and justice—surely, in this way especially, is Bespaloff responding directly to Weil's essay in its, perhaps unexamined, full-on rejection of force.
I had Hannah Arendt's reflections on forgiveness in the back of my mind for almost the entire time I read Weil's essay.
Simone is one of my heroes. In this book which contains her essay "The Iliad, a Poem of Force" she points out the damage of war does to those touched by it. She tells how the poem informs her pacifism. A very powerful book
Simone Weil's slim volume is all Christopher Hedges' needed in order to write his book, War is a Force That Gives Us Meaning
To define force - it is that x that turns anybody who is subjected to it into a thingFor those dreamers who considered that force, thanks to progress, would soon be a thing of the past, the Iliad could appear as an historical document; for others, whose powers of recognition are more acute and who perceive force, today as yesterday, at the very center of human history, the Iliad is the purest and the loveliest of mirrors.Page 1Force is as pitiless to the man who possesses it, or thinks he does, as it is to its victims; the second it crushes, the first it intoxicates.
*I'll start this short review with the disclaimer that I did not read the final essay by Hermann Broch, and I skipped a chapter in Bespaloff's essay entitled "Troy and Moscow.I quite enjoyed Weil's essay; I found it accessible, the was language intelligent, and the topic focused.
This is why I skipped the chapter comparing Homer and Tolstoy; I haven't read Tolstoy, or Nietzsche, or many of her other sources, and I think this really lead to the confusion I felt with her writing later in the essay.
The Weil essay is astoundingly bad.
There's a lot of verbiage, but it basically comes down to two ideas: 1) the Achaeans are Nazis, and 2) Homer is a pacifist.
The essay abounds in the typical moves of French frauds, including deliberate misquotation, just making stuff up, etc.
The Bespaloff essay is solid and additionally enjoyable because she smacks down Weil.
Bespaloff has read Nietzsche (and cites him a lot), and so avoids many of the foolish pitfalls that Weil falls into.
Then moves on to some more general remarks.
3.5I'm not gonna lie, I didn't fall in love with Simone Weil's essay like everyone else did, but I respected it as an essay.
My only issue with her is that her last essay, comparing Christianity and the Iliad, felt like the odd one out.
Maybe there were connections between the various topics discussed but by that point I was skimming and only wanting to get to the end.So for me, it was an overall mixed bag of essays; I respect Simone Weil's work, loved Rachel Bespaloff's work save for her last essay and found Christopher Benfey's contribution included rather pointlessly in the book.
Weil's essay, charged by the devastation of France in the World Wars, reveals another side of that story: the cycles of dehumanizing violence.
While Homer depicted brutal violence, he also presented glory gained in battle in a way not present in Weil's interpretation.
Also, the final section of the essay in which Weil theorizes that the love and justice of the Iliad were the source of the love and justice of the Gospels felt like a departure from the thesis of the essay and provided a weak conclusion, especially as the theme of "justice" presented earlier hardly carried a Gospel quality.Although the essay has its flaws, the core thesis effectively presents the philosophical effects of violence, showing how Homer's work can be relevant to a modern audience.
According to the reviews, most people found Weil's essay to be the high-point of this collection.
I thought that Bespaloff's writing was far more engaging and convincing, if not a little less focused than Weil's.
This is coming from someone who was very excited to start exploring Simone Weil's corpus and hadn't heard of Rachel Bespaloff before picking up this volume.
The Iliad, or the Poem of Force felt, at times, like reading an essay by a high school student assigned the task of writing persuasively on a topic which they don't actually care about.
Weil and Broch are interesting not so much for their interpretation of the Iliad itself as for how they project into it and reflect about their own times, in a similar way as the rewriting of Antigone by Anouilh in the same era (WWII). Bespaloff, I am sorry to say, lets herself be influenced by her own background into linking things that have no business being linked. Comparing Helen of Troy to Anna Karenina is all well and good if you are studying Tolstoy, but not the other way around.
Both essays are good but flawed. Their chief flaw is not thinking the Iliad merits a true analysis and instead they wish to shoe horn the book to fit their needs. The book centers on Achilles and Hector but Achilles becomes force in one and a secondary character in the second. His rages are not discussed in detail even though the muse is asked to sing them in the first line of the poem.
I bought it for the Weil and was so disappointed that I put this down for a week. Weeks later I remain horrified at the possibility that this might have languished for years between other unread and unfinished NYRBs, because the rest, short but dense pieces by Bespaloff and a review of both authors by Bloch, are some of the best literary essays I've read.
I picked this up for Simone Weil and left with a great appreciation for Rachel Bespaloff.
