https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10147.The_Complete_Sherlock_Holmes_Volume_I
Now enjoy some gifs of my favorite lady.From here down are individual reviews for The Adventures of Sherlock HolmesA Scandal in Bohemia: 5/5 - Let's just say that I love Irene Adler.I think she's one of the best female characters I've ever read, specifically one back then.
Didn't remember the ending, which made an enjoyable read.The Adventure of the Noble Bachelor: 4/5 - This one really sticks out in my mind since, in a way, it reminds me of The Abominable Bride, which was one of the only good things to come out of the later episodes of BBC's Sherlock.
I had forgotten so many little things about Holmes and Watson and the original stories of ACD.It seems like a phenominal statement to make doesn't it?
The can still remember the horror I felt watching one of the The Hound of the Baskervilles movies (I do not remember which version).This year, there is a new TV show called Elementary where Dr. Watson is a woman.I am still watching the Jeremy Brett episodes on public TV as well as the newer verson called Sherlock.
The greatest thing though, is that I can still read all of the original stories and books - written over 100 years ago because they are still in print.
Whatever you do, read Hound of the Baskervilles. Holy cow, that's now one of my favorite books. The short stories are fun, but some are better than others.It feels like Holmes and Watson are really fleshed out as dynamic characters in Baskervilles. Is it the longer length? Is it because it was written so much later than the short stories?
Since 8th grade I have been head over heals for Holmes. I guess I just like moody intellectuals. It is so intertaining to watch him demonstrate his superior intellect again and again. I am really glad I picked these up a B&N. It's great to have all of Sherlock Holmes in two volumes.
Holmes & Watson <3
The Complete Sherlock Holmes: Volume I by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle is great fun to read.
I would have enjoyed these Sherlock Holmes stories anyway, but my enjoyment was heightened whenever I came across a plot or character habit or dialogue that had been adapted directly into the BBC’s Sherlock.
The Sherlock Holmes and John Watson of the stories are similar, but not the same, as the characters in the television show.
After that was another series of short stories/mysteries called Memoirs of Sherlock Holmes.
:S But I saw more life and excitement in Sherlock Holmes just before his "death," which reminded me of the movie that finally succeeded in getting me to pick this volume up at Barnes & Noble.
I have to say that I like the novel form for the mysteries a lot more than the short story form which ACD used more often for Holmes, since there’s more time to create a deeper plot and build up to a proper climax.
Well, I think I can appreciate the fascination with the character of Sherlock Holmes and his stories. LOL...I never knew he was a raging cokehead though. A good collection of detective stories!! I have to admit though, that I grappled with this thing a bit, and I'll have to reread it at some point in the near future.
If you are a fan of Sherlock Holmes and love a good mystery, grab this classic collection.
This is the first of a two volume set containing all Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s published works featuring Sherlock Holmes. Collected here in order of original publication, this first volume includes the first two novels (A Study in Scarlet and The Sign of Four), followed by the first two collections of short stories (Adventures of Sherlock Holmes and Memoirs of Sherlock Holmes) and ends with the third novel, The Hound of the Baskervilles. Overall, it a wonderful collection featuring some of the m
Collected here in order of original publication, this first volume includes the first two novels (A Study in Scarlet and The Sign of Four), followed by the first two collections of short stories (Adventures of Sherlock Holmes and Memoirs of Sherlock Holmes) and ends with the third novel, The Hound of the Baskervilles.
The short stories from the Adventures and Memoirs collections range from amusing (e.g.
My favorite stories are “The Man with the Twisted Lip” and “The Musgrave Ritual”, but the best tale in this volume is Doyle’s third Holmes novel, The Hound of the Baskervilles which is far improved over his early novels.
It's amazing how much English literature became less dense between Austen, Dickens and Thackeray to Doyle.
I admit I was avoiding reading this because I thought it would take the same level of time and commitment as a Dickens novel, but I was (pleasantly) surprised by how much easier it was to read.
I really enjoyed reading this compilation of four of Doyle's Holmes novels.
It's easy to see why so many people love Sherlock Holmes and the books are so widely read.
I love Sherlock Holmes. Written in the late 1800s/early 1900s in London. I love the old vocabulary and the history. I can hear the horsedrawn hansons clattering down the brick streets. I can smell the tobacco of Holme's pipe. I have enjoyed the odd friendship of Holmes and Watson. And I have enjoyed the adventure and mystery these 2 gentlemen find themselves in. This volume takes some time to read, but I recommend anyone who is interested in mystery to read about this famous detective's adventures.
I loved this book! However, I'm a slow reader and it took me about a year and a half to finish. But if you're like me and love mystery, then I would highly recommend this book.
I did not find this book very interesting in the beginning, but once I set my mind to it this last month, it went quickly (I mostly read it on the weekends this past October).The stories were relatively short, and actually quite humorous (Robert Downey Jr. played in my head the entire time).
Thrilling indeed.I think I would have enjoyed the stories more in "bite-sized chunks" (wal-mart layaway commercial, sorry); than has a complete set.
This book or the stories within would have received 4 stars, due to Sherlock's ability to solve the crimes while being entertaining at the same time.
I've only read A Study in Scarlet from this collection, which was my intention. I'd lean toward 4 stars but I can't say how the rest of the book turns out. I definitely want to read the rest of the book--which totally suprises me--but not right at the moment. I've always been anti-Sherlock Holmes. Turns out he's not so bad after all.
Ugh I love Sherlock stories.
A truly awesome collection of short stories and novels. There's no doubt in my mind that Sherlock Holmes is a master at his craft. Thoroughly entertaining; can't wait to dive into Volume II!
I loved the novels (The Hound of the Baskervilles was a reread for me), but the stories were very much hit-or-miss.
If nothing else, read this book.Of course the characters or Holmes and Watson are terrific, I cannot do this any justice.The collection was well put together.
There was enough notes to be useful to modern readers in the stories themselves, explaining things that might be truly confusing (such as a quick description of the different types of carriages of the time at the beginning) without dogging each page with dozens of footnotes at the bottom.Overall, read The Hound of the Baskervilles.
Consider reading the collections if your a fan of the genre or modern interpretations of Holmes.
Fantastic. Brilliant. A Study in Scarlet was my very favorite.
Great stories but the formatting of the version was a bit weird, which became off-putting fairly quickly.
(On a humorous note, Holmes' keen awareness of his own abilities sometimes reminds me of that of Hercule Poirot.)The following is a list of the stories I have read thus far, the first five being a part of The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes, and the latter five from The Memoirs of Sherlock Holmes: A Scandal in Bohemia - Probably my favorite of the bunch.
whom I shall ever regard as the best and the wisest man whom I have ever known." (Pg. 570) (hide spoiler)]I am very excited to continue reading these books and short stories; I might even try watching one of the movies about them.
In this first volume of all the collected works that feature Sherlock Holmes and his friend Dr. John Watson, the reader first meets the great detective and his friend through two short novellas, 23 short stories, and the best-known and greatest case the pair ever faced.The two-volume collection of the original works of Conan Doyle in the American publication order, begins with the first two Holmes novelettes Study in Scarlett and The Sign of Four which are very well written stories that both introduce the main character Holmes, but also through the eyes of his friend Watson.
OH MY GOSH. That took me WAY longer than I thought it would... but I finished it!! I've said this before, but this must have been a marvel in its day... The way Holmes understands natural human reactions and thought processes is still almost super-human-like today! Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was a genius himself to put something like this together... Amazing!
Having undertaken the journey of reading ALL the Sherlock Holmes stories due to my recent infatuation with the terrific BBC television series Sherlock, I am pleased to say I am pleased!
himself once insisted that he would be disappointed if he were only remembered for creating the character of Holmes, I have to object to such a statement.
You should not be disappointed, sir!
Anything which tends, even under the fantastic form of the minutiae of Sherlock Holmes, to assert this romance of detail in civilization, to emphasize this unfathomably human character in flints and tiles, is a good thing."Thank you, G.
If I remember correctly (it's taken me years to get through this), this volume contains three novellas (A Study in Scarlet, The Sign of Four, and The Hound of the Baskervilles), and the rest are 14-ish-page short stories. The first two novellas are a bit overlong and messy; the short stories are entertaining but mostly consist of a bunch of talking. The Hound of the Baskervilles, though, is everything you want a Sherlock Holmes story to be; it's the best by far, with mystery, adventure, suspense, and character. And who doesn't love Holmes and Dr. Watson?
An overall fun read. Ever since the release of the Sherlock Holmes movies, I have envisioned Robert Downey Jr and Jude Law when I read these stories! It was such great casting and it made the book even more enjoyable. As for the stories themselves, they have the potential to be a bit repetitive. But if you read one story at a time as they were originally intended to be read, then it shouldn't be too big of a deal. Anyways, like I said, a fun and entertaining read, can't wait to start on the second half! =)
The edition I read was from Doubleday and had a preface by Christopher Morley. This was the best detective series ever. It's only shortcoming is that when you finish, you wish you could read them all for the first time. The stories also give some insight to the culture of the time.I have also read the apocryphal (not really) works. The best is The Seven Percent Solution by Nicholas Meyer followed by The Giant Rat of Sumatra and Meyer's West End Horror.
Sherlock Holmes is my FAVORITE literary character of all time. And I've only read half the stories.I never dreamed I would fall in love with the mastery of one fictional man's capabilities of mind. I now use Holmes' methods of deducing, on an everyday basis. (It's just so hard not to, now that I've learned a few of his tricks.) And yet... there's still so much MORE to take in from this master of deduction!Volume I = complete.Volume II = here I come!
I won a copy of this in a sixth grade essay contest. My first inkling that maybe I had some talent at writing. Will always love the brilliance of Holmes. Which is why I named my YA protagonist after him.
