https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127289.Selected_Writings
To those of us who have worked their way arduously, degree by painful degree, to a fuller and more widely-encompassing vision of the full spectrum of Christian theology, Meister Eckhart seems to stand all by himself, off in a radiant little corner of history of his own somewhere!‘Well, he sure knows how to cut corners, doesn’t he?’ I can hear many a dour medieval bishop mutter into their beards.
Eckhart talked about many disparate subjects all revolving around the concept of God. One of the interesting points he makes is about language.
He believed that purifying language into its most abstract forms enabled human beings to better engage with God who, although real, to the human mind can only exist in the abstract.
Another interesting point that the Meister makes is that if you are to receive divine knowledge then you need to absolve yourself of all knowledge like a receptacle emptying itself.
They know the treachery of the ego that will try to contain God with human knowledge and understanding.Meister Eckhart perhaps captures this best in his infamous quote from his 22nd sermon in this book: “Therefore we ask God to free us from ‘God’ in so far as we conceive of God.”I wrestled with my rating of this book, as I'm not sure I “really liked it” because of how difficult and “thick” (to quote one of my soul stream partners) Eckhart writes much of the time.
Great introduction to Meister Eckhart teachings, but I more recommended The Complete Mystical Works of Meister Eckhart..
Next, when we eliminate all other qualifications as to what “I am” could be referring to, such as “I am a human being”, or “I am a student who likes getting an A in his medieval philosophy class”, and only consider that what I am is good, we recognize that the “good” is defining the “I”; the object “good” is begetting the subject “I”.
Meister Johannas Eckhart has a marvelous way of explaining Christian theological concepts in pure and simple language and metaphor.
For Eckhart God is something of a pure Form or Image, scripture is no more than codified mysticism and gnosticism leaks through like a torn umbrella.
While I do adore and practice Christian mysticism, I'm way too much of a materialist to get 100% behind Eckhart, but I very highly recommend reading him if you're Christian or interested in mystic traditions (Zen, Sufism, etc.)
Crazy old Dominican who's writings were declared heretical. Sounds interesting, right? Wrong. It's totally metaphysical, speculation about the body, soul, God, the oneness of all matter . . . Eckhart was a big neo-Platonist, and many of his followers eventually became members of the Free Spirit heresy. But unless you really like theology, it is very dull.
Always love Meister Eckhart.
Change perception, change experience.
Too religious for my tastes.
In fact, I purchased this book on his selected writings and placed it in my "spiritual corner", wanting to read and know more about his teachings and what they meant.This man knew God. Maybe he was deemed a heretic by the close-minded and hypocritical Catholic Church (as anyone who's studied history can attest to), and maybe his writings are obscure and hard to understand and even to discuss, but they speak to truth and universality, which I believe is one of the reasons why Meister Eckhart is deemed a champion of modern spirituality.
A wonderful (in its truest sense) collection of writings with a conversational intimacy. There is a great amount here to inspire and think upon, even for a psychologised, William Jamesian conception of God, akin to the great mystics of other traditions such as Ibn Arabi. Much here is concerned with the individual and living, rather than grand metaphysical system building, and so remains largely immediate and not maddeningly esoteric.
Sincerely surprised about how much I liked this book! I thought it'd be trolling through dry medieval theology to find some gems (the stuff usually quoted in other books) but, literally with the exception of a few of the "sermons" in the second half, the book was beautiful. It is inspirational, moving and life-changing. This is one of the enlightened ones who truely got it - one who sets a high bar for others to reach.
I found this heinously long and confusing. I really had to push myself to finish.
Each time I read Eckhart, I get something new out of it. Though sometimes he skates a little close to the edge of orthodoxy, he never crosses. Solid, dependable teaching.
Li-Young Lee has a serious crush on Meister Eckhart, so I do too. I'll report back on my findings.
