https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/63462.Monsieur_Monde_Vanishes
“As with the need for relatedness, rootedness, and transcendence, this need for a sense of identity is so vital and imperative that man could not remain sane if he did not find some way of satisfying it.” ---------- After setting out with his new Self, Monsieur senses the risk and dangers involved in shedding habitual categories, as in when the author writes, “He did not know where he was going or what he would do.
A man goes from Paris on a grim winter day to Nice - he vanishes...
He went on upstairs.
"She's a nice girl," Charlotte said.
"Good night..." "Good night..." He went on climbing, slowly.
And without knowing, under a sort of compulsion, he had stopped and sat down on a step, wearily, without a thought in his head; then because of some creaking sound, made perhaps by a mouse in the wall, he had got up, feeling ashamed, and made his way upstairs.
Now he went up to the very top, optened the door with his key, and began to undress, looking out at the hundreds of red roofs spread out in tiers in the morning sunlight.https://bakersandbest.files.wordpress...
Yes, of course, we all know that this is self-deception (or what ol' Sartre would call 'bad faith'), but if the deception is effective, it's all the same.
Yet oddly enough, Monsieur Monde's new life, populated as it is by whores, drug addicts, and gamblers, isn't really all that different from the old one.
Perhaps a realization that any given life is its own prison?
It isn't a mystery concerned with circumstances, but rather with how we choose to live our lives.
I am beginning to see why Anita Brookner and so many others--the introduction here is by Larry McMurtry--love Georges Simenon so much.
This comes across quite well in translation since much of what he writes about is concrete: acts and things, showing versus telling.
Though Simenon does have his philosophical flights, they are usually brief.
The adventure he then has marks him in a way not entirely expected.
One feels that Simenon does not waste a single word.
He upends expectations, surprises and excites.
Apparently, he would write about six or seven such books per year.
In a bad year only two or three.
Georges Simenon with his romans durs feels like another of my most trusted friends and companions.I read Monsieur Monde Vanishes after having started it a year or so ago and putting it aside--not in the right mood at the time--and felt immediately at home, deliciously so.
In Simenon's novels of the 1950's it is the well-respected businessman and husband, father and bourgeois citizen, who makes a break with his comfortable life to dig deeper in the underworld.
For instance, all the critics for twenty years have said the same thing: “It is time for Simenon to give us a big novel, a novel with twenty or thirty characters.” They do not understand.
My big novel is the mosaic of all my small novels." - Georges SimenonNever Say Never Simenon's vast output of Maigret detective titles never appealed to me, but the non-formula mysteries always have.
There seems to be some kind of comfort zone, for authors, of continuing-character mystery series-- that contrarily allows the non-series ones to shine.

Η ιστορία ενός ανθρώπου που τα παρατάει όλα οικογένεια,φίλους και δουλειά γιατί βαρέθηκε,κουράστηκε,επαναστάτησε και ήθελε λίγο να ζήσει κάτι διαφορετικό απ'τη ρουτίνα της ζωής του.Ο Σιμενόν όπως σε κάθε βιβλίο του είναι μοναδικός (τουλάχιστον για μένα)
In the previous Simenon book I read ("The Widow"), Paul Theroux writes an unremarkable introduction that (1) ruins the plot and (2) compares the book to Camus' "The Stranger." Having learned my lesson, I skipped the introduction to "Monsieur Monde Vanishes," saving it for after I finished the book.
Kind of annoying.I found "Monsieur Monde Vanishes" to be entertaining, but forgettable.
Still, it's an interesting change.Simenon seems to hint at some existential angst in "Monsieur Monde Vanishes." The title character, unsatisfied with his comfortable life, leaves it completely.
In "Monsieur Monde Vanishes," Simenon suggests as much.
My first Simenon, and what a disappointment.
He meets people along the way, but nothing Simenon does paints these figures as interesting - despite the odd observation that paints a memorable, standalone image.
As it moves into Monde's new identity, there's nothing to it, and while some descriptions are wonderfully sublime (one comparing his desire to sleep as a cork rising up through dark waters to float on top of a conscious state is especially remarkable), there are sloppy transitions of present to past, choppy descriptions of the world around him, and flaccid characters spewing some flaccid dialogue, especially at the end when Monde encounters a woman of his past.
I ended up oddly inspired.This book raises many questions, but one that comes to mind is, when was the last time you weren't hiding from yourself?
I can't say I respect Simenon's characterization of women (though I wasn't surprised after learning he'd boasted of sleeping with 10,000 women), but I do respect his writing.
His sentences go on forever."Frank: "Who're you reading?"Me: "Simenon." (I show him my book, he looks at bookmark at bottom of page)Frank: "How much have you read?" Me: "Two sentences."
Well, he's not so "new", since he started publishing in the early 1930s and has been dead for a dozen years, but I've never read him before.
For those of you who are mystery lovers, perhaps you know him as the author of the 75 novels that comprise the Commissaire Maigret series.
There are also another 150 (or so) novels, of which Monsieur Monde is one.I was lulled into a sense of ease from the beginning, thinking this was a light novel of not much consequence.
We know Monsieur Monde runs off - I can read the title.
What happens to complete the characterization of Norbert Monde is thought provoking.
I was a Maigret fan three years back; now, after my fifth of Simenon's 'romans durs', I'm a fully paid-up Simenon fan. This is the story of a tightly-reined man who, in his 48th year, finally gives in to his urge to taste life on the wrong side of the tracks. What follows isn't a debauch but a strangely sombre descent into the abyss. Monsieur Monde is the rare Maigret protagonist who returns from that descent. Read this slim, indelible novel to find out how and why.
But very soon the action switches to Monsieur Monde’s story and stays with him.
Involving three women, all at some stage linked romantically to Monde, I suspect there is an element of the autobiographical in the story.
The wealthy Monde takes only his small bag with him to the south, but without knowing it, has he brought the old life with him as well?
It did cross my mind that this sort of Simenon may be overrated, but I soon pooh-poohed that idea when I realised I was looking forward so much to the next one...
Unlike his father, who led an irresponsible, self-indulgent life which almost bankrupted the family firm, Norbert is disciplined, hard working and successful.
The effort to care for others has only succeeded in attracting to Monsieur Monde a group of selfish, self-obsessed exploiters.
And so when Norbert stumbles across his first wife, now living a drug addicted bohemian life and facing destitution, he begins to care for her, loses touch with Julie, and soon finds himself in his usual role of carer.But Monsieur Monde is an intelligent man.
Monsieur Monde, a man in his late forties who has passively let his life happen to him, decides one day to flee his wife, his children, and his business in Paris and simply disappear.
He returns to his wife in Paris and is a changed man.
It is all captured in this brief exchange:"She [Monsieur Monde's wife] felt impelled to remark: 'You haven't changed.'"He replied, with that composure which he had brought back with him, and under which could be glimpsed a terrifying abyss: 'Yes, I have.'"That was all.
"He lay down and closed his eyes in a rage, but nothing was as it should be, neither the shadows nor the light, nor the sounds, nor even the twittering sparrows, and his whole being tossed impatiently in the drab limbo."The Belgian author Georges Simenon is mainly known for his famed series of psychological crime stories featuring Commissaire Maigret (I have reviewed three of his novels on Goodreads, the best of them being  Cécile is Dead ). Monsieur Monde Vanishes (1952) is a standalone novel a
I would categorize it as a psychological novella (just about 130 pages) about a man taking a dramatic turn in his life: depending on the point of view, some will call the turn "a midlife crisis" while others "a moment of spiritual rebirth."Norbert Monde is a successful businessman - he has inherited a brokers' and exporters' company that has carried the family name for over 100 years.
In this work, a common example in the behavior of many people during their lifetimes involves their taking advantage of their desire to simply disappear from the facts of their current existence.
They are simply summed up, and he makes a choice to walk out on his family and take up a new life.
Simenon gives us no new insights into Monde – mainly because there aren’t any.
This work does not represent the strongest example of Simenon’s ‘dur’ novels.
Don’t give up on Simenon after this novel if it is your first.
Al comienzo creí que se trataría de un detective medio genio a cargo de la búsqueda del Sr. Monde, un muy importante empresario desaparecido el día de su cumpleaños número 48.
Mis expectativas con éste libro era el de una historia de suspenso, por lo que me costó acostumbrarme, pero a medida que me adentraba era como estar viajando y descansando con el Sr. Monde y como es un libro corto, al terminar, te deja con esa nostalgia o ganas de querer volver a donde estabas hacía segundos.
Como contraste, su forma de ver el mundo es muy poco alentadora, así como la vida de quienes se cruzan en su camino.
Het zijn dingen die je als persoon ineens met een zucht erkent, een soort van hartstocht, dat Simenon beschrijft en waarmee hij zijn schrijven tot leven wekt.
Monsieur Monde laat ons zien dat hij eigenlijk niet precies weet waarom hij besluit weg te gaan—het lijkt allemaal ook enorm mechanisch te gaan, hij voelt geen enkele emotie tijdens zijn handelen: hij neemt geld op bij de bank, laat zijn snor weg scheren, schaft een nieuw pak aan.
Weliswaar niet op de manier waarop deze vrouw het had verwacht, en ook om een heel andere reden dan zij in het hoofd heeft zitten, maar Monsieur Monde helpt haar.
Julie was both a nice parallel, and contrast, to Monde; she was trapped in an unpleasant lower-class life, where she had experienced genuinely bad relationships, so they seemed like a good comparative character study of two people running away together from Paris.The story took a darker turn towards the end, when Monde runs into his drug-addicted ex-wife, but I think that it was handled in a fairly interesting way, and it never lapsed into the main character angsting endlessly about his situation, which is another sin that "serious" fiction is often guilty of.The only thing I don't entirely get is how the experiences outside of his own insulated world led Monsieur Monde to make the choices he made in the end.
My first Georges Simenon [or, as the coolest kids refer to him, just Simenon (like Madonna?)], and I liked it immensely: Monsieur Monde Vanishes, about Monsieur Monde who walks out of his life seemingly the very moment he wakes up from his droning existence, and what he did while he disappeared.What compels people to leave?
Or, at least, that he’s resigned to his life being this way.
He had always been a man living among other men and like them he had struggled, jostling amid the crowd, now feebly and now resolutely, without knowing whither he was going."During his disappearance, he tries out new identities, if only by way of trying out new clothes (ready-made this time, egads).
Monsieur Monde Vanishes is perfect material for a film adaptation.
While Jarmusch's lackadaisical slackers seem slightly less convinced that their little vacation to Florida is really going to change their lives, they are at least under the impression that their lives will seem more interesting in an exotic setting (Florida?).
Monde's character learns a bit toward the end of the story, and even changes a little, but the past that constituted most of his life simply did not want to let him leave.
I can say that Simenon writes such sharp, observational prose, to a degree where the story moves along so effortlessly that one has the impression that they are in the hands of a gifted storyteller.
Like so many who write prefaces for works not their own, he thinks nothing of merrily telling you the whole plot, denouement and all.
Or two.La Fugue is a common motif in Simenon's works--people who vanish, voluntarily or as a result of some trauma.
True, some have come to sticky ends, but others, like Mr Monde, just walk away.
I like his name, "Mr Monde"--"Mister World"--that is to say, Everyman.
Which is all Monsieur Monde aspires to be.But how far is far enough away?
Will Monsieur Monde end up doing the same?That would be telling.
On his 48th birthday, Norbert Monde walks away from the life he's known in Paris: a successful business, a cold second wife, and two disappointing adult children.
Along the way, he has the most tepid of love affairs with a young woman named Julie, who was beaten and abandoned by her boyfriend in the hotel room next to his, and later encounters his first wife Therese, now a morphine addict.
Similarly for Norbert, he eventually finds what he was looking for when he left Paris, but not in the way he would have expected.This is a short, grim novel.
It turns the mystery on its head because after the first chapter, we are made aware of Monsieur Monde's whereabouts and why he has decided to disappear.
Monsieur Monde seems to be suffering from an existential mid-life crisis.
Perhaps it was the "Frenchness" of it all, but his decision to return to his old life and leave what little happiness he had found didn't ring true to me.
Monde finds is that he is able to look into the abyss and stare at it--not jump or turn away.Perhaps I'm getting sentimental in my old age, but this book just left me cold.
This work by Simenon has all the traits of his great works.
Few writers are capable of writing such viscerally restrained sentences as "He saw her collapse on the sidewalk at his feet, scrabbling at the pavement with her nails." It's that last bit.
And yet this novel lacks the power of "Dirty Snow," which, in my opinion, is Simenon at his very best...
which is to say at his most bleak.Still, the novel has all the great hallmarks of Simenon.
Where Sartre and Camus wore their philosphy on their sleeves, Simenon simply writes.
In this short novel, Monsieur Monde simply walks away from his plump middle class life, finding relief in shabby hotels with shabby people.
For me too it's a kind of relief, a way of living somewhere else where you've shrugged off the burden of trying to matter.(Again, kudos to the editors at NYRB Classics who are republishing these books that would otherwise disappear – and in a handsome paper editions.
For reasons which he himself may not understand, a man walks out of his own life.
The basic idea – treated here like a French New Wave film for the mental cinema, also occurs in my favorite H.G. Wells novel, The History of Mr Polly, and in Nathaniel Hawthorne’s story titled ‘Wakefield.’ There’s a term paper for someone here, exploring the way the theme is treated differently by a French, a British, and an American author.
Simenon’s Monde wants something like integrated personhood.
Mr Polly wants romantic heroism.
Hawthorne’s version is perhaps the darkest, a reasonless embrace of absolute isolation apparently for its own sake.
This was the first Georges Simenon mystery I tried to read. What I discovered is that this is a somewhat serious philos0phical--I would have to say, existential--work. It is definitely not a "cosy" a la Agatha Christie, or even enigmatically amusing like G.K. Chesterton. It is dead serious and rather melancholy.I was not in the right mood for such a task, so I put it aside. Perhaps I will come back to it someday.
