https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2295829.Feast_of_Fools
Now everybody’s strolling in and out like nobody’s business and it’s driving me nuts!Also, I know that writing about parents can be boring, but when you’re doing the YA thing you can...a) Have them killed early on, b) Make them douchebags who don’t give a rats' ass about their kid, or c) Have them physically or mentally unable to do to it.
Claire’s healthy and loving parents come and go whenever it suits the plot, and even though I’m not interested in reading about them, the whole thing just feels wrong.Okie, done with that.
The only one I was kind of annoyed with was Michael who is starting to grow more and more distant from his friends by keeping secrets and inadvertently hurting them.It's also nice to finally see the people of Morganville, humans and vampires, working together for once.
First Vampires couldn't enter without invitations because Michael was human.
Which would be fine with me, I would accept the explanation that since Claire, Eve and Shane live in the house along with Michael the vampire protection is for them.
Cheater of vandals and defiler of dead dogs!" and did another twirl and a bow.Well Feast of Fools, definitely isn't a filler book.
Rachel Caine, manages to keep the back story up at the start of the book if people decide to just join in in the middle (not that you would), or if you need a refresher of after an MV break.
As I said at the beginning, this book isn't a filler.
Vampire nemesis like Amelie and Oliver come together for the sake of the town, and I love the strength that Caine showed us in this book.
Feast of Fools is the fourth installment of the Morganville Vampire Series, and it was a bit slower placed than the first three books.
In this book, three new baddies enter the town of Morganville, including Amelie’s father Bishop and his two evil sidekicks François and Ysandre.
As with the other three books, I was kept riveted with the steady paced events and interested as new characters entered the scene and caused their fair share of havoc.
Regardless of this book being a little bit slower paced, it was fun to read and interesting to learn more about the vampire lore.
As these books continue, I find I am less and less concerned with what will happen to Morganville and its' inhabitants and more concerned with when Shane is going to break and finally "do" Claire.
So, my unauthorized and likely, unwanted, opinion is, let it happen or kill Shane off.
Finally, the other beef I have is that the reader is left hanging at the end of every book.
Find my review on the next book [in this seemingly never-ending series) here: [book:Lord of Misrule|3558003]
Of course that's what I was thinking.”(view spoiler)[Feast of Fools was a pretty good book.
But then saw a whole bunch of people die at this death ball that she attended.Claire still kind of made annoying choices that most likely put her life in danger.
You people are all dumb as shit if you think the youngest vampire ever made can take on some ancient piece of shit.
Oh, and they found out that Bishop's blood is the cure for all of the vampires in Morganville.Then shit hit the fan even more at the end of this book when Amelie was stabbed, then healed, then came up with a plan to get Bishop and his vampire gang from hell out of the town.
This was definitely the most exciting installment thus far.
A new threat comes to Morganville.
An outside threat.
Enemies become allies as the town bands together to protect itself.
We get more of Myrnin, which made me happy.
I love Claire’s development, and Shane is growing on me.
The relationships in the series really make the story, which is why I was so happy to see those on opposite sides banding together in the face of a common enemy.
It’s one of the most episodic series I’ve ever read, and really feels like reading a tv show.
On to the next installment!
The stakes have been raised and I mean that pun intended! Claire is slowly becoming more of a badass rather than a scared little girl. She can't do much against the vamps but she manages for the most part. I have a feeling she will be very important for the rest of the series. Seems like overall the series is picking up. I still have minor annoyances usually revolving around Shane being a dumbass, but I'm really enjoying this series.
She starts FEAST OF FOOLS like she does the other books in the Morgenville Vampire series - right in the middle of the action which grabs you by the hair, yanks you in, and won’t let go until the story is over.At the end of MIDNIGHT ALLEY, the foursome living in the Glass House gets some unexpected visitors in the form of Claire’s parents and (in Buffy the Vampire Slayer Speak) the Big Bad - Mr. Bishop A.K.A. Amelie’s “father.” With him in town there has to be trouble a-brewin’.On top of the trouble that is inevitably on the way, Claire has to deal with the stress of her parents being in town.
Feast of Fools is the fourth book in the Morganville Vampire series.
Again it picks up right where the previous book had left off.
A few new vampires have shown up that don't seem to have the best of intentions.
With all books in a series I try to keep my reviews a bit vague as I don't want to add much in that would spoil things but with this particular book there wasn't much to even talk about.
Probably a 2.5 in all actuality for this particular book as I spent most of it waiting for more.
Hopefully the story picks up in the next book.
This was probably my least favorite so far.
I really am enjoying Myrnin and all his craziness.
Claire is really starting to grow up.
This one has lots of drama.
Damn Bishop and his crazy ideas.
Like really he expects all the vampires to bring humans as a symblic sacrifice, i'm sorry what?
Lunatic, I daresay he's craazier than our beloved Myrnin.
But that is ok we have Clair and Myrnin to save the day and put Bishop in his place.
Amelia is becoming a quite annoying character.
Why would you use our resident psycho Myrnin....not cool Amelia.
She's such a kick ass character.
one of the best in the series loved the whole bishop scene a truly brilliant villian
No review for this one because I am le lazy. Great book, this series keeps getting better and better. I am pleased. Now off to read the fifth one.
I am so in love with this series.
I think Claire is finally learning when she needs to back off, and let other people take care of things; especially with the addition of her parents in Morganville, because one wrong move could put them on the chopping block.Claire and Shane's relationship is growing, and they both want to take things to the next level.
The addition of him in Midnight Alley added a whole new level of intrigue to the story.
With the new serum Claire has been working on to help him, and the other vampires, he's able to stay out of his cage for longer.
I am enjoying this series...it's not the most fabulously written thing I've ever read, but it is entertaining, and this book was no exception.
The reason that the rating is so low is that there was a MAJOR continuity issue that bugged me all the way through the book.
At the end of the previous book, one of the main characters was shot.
In this book, the same character is recovering from a STAB wound.
So I spent a lot of the book pondering what should have been a fairly minor part of the story.
Rachel Caine hasn't let me down yet. Again another amazing installment in the Morganville Vampires Series. In the fourth book we find out more of the secrets of Morganville and find out what Bishop wants. There is never a moment of peace but that makes for one fantastic read. The characters are brilliant as always and it was good to see Myrnin was in this book. I love Claire and Shane's relationship, their moments together always bring a smile to my face.Awesome series. A must read!
This is the 4th book in a YA series written by Rachel Caine (she does the Weather Warden series as well).
This book has the same romantic tension between Claire and Shane- along with some sinister events happening in the town of Morganville.
Morganville is a town where vampires live freely among humans- with humans being kept (for lack of a better word) by various vampires.
Some are good, most are bad, and all the humans are doing is trying to survive!
I encourage you to pick up this series and give it a try!
Much like the third book, this one adds a new character who brings a new element to the story, which also indicated that there is now a bigger picture forming that the series will focus on which wasn’t all that apparent in the first two books.
Then there is a lack of danger and excitement in the storyline itself, perhaps it is a slow build given how long this series is, but it’s being pieced together very slowly and none of the main vampire characters are particularly interesting either, nothing about them makes me want to know more about their past and how they came to be now.
The Morganville VampiresFeast For FoolsRachel CaineI read book four in this day too!Claire is working for the crazy vampire MyrninThat cliffhanger is Amelie's (boss lady) father in the form of the The BishopEveryone is on edgeShane is recovering from getting stabbed (yer he got stabbed)Michael plays pretty music and is being a weird vampireEve is struggling to deal with her crazy brother Jason (weirdo)There's a ball?Crazy vampire Myrnin takes ClaireShit goes downPlan.Yer that sums it up I believe!5/5*
This series continues to be perfect mix of entertaining typical ya and nonsense. I find myself cringing a lot but I'm still enjoying it so much and will definitely continue with the series.
Watching Claire mature is something so rare in teen novels...
With Claire, the proof is in the pudding: she no longer backs down to Monica (which is actually quite hilarious at times!), she is more straight-forward with Shane and much stronger when it comes to her emotions for him, she is head scientist on the study of treatment for the sickness leading to the vamps' demise, the stands up to Amelie, and she interacts with Myrnin.
(Oh, Myrnin, you're my favorite.
I'm chomping at the bit to get some resolution, because you keep throwing me back and forth!)Claire, Shane, Eve, Michael...
That's sort of funny, but really I haven't read any books so far that I haven't enjoy thoroughly.
But if I have to give a 4 stars to any books in the Morganville Vampire Series, it would have to be Feast of Fools.
Anyways for anyone who knows me, you'll know that my favorite book series of all time is Morganville Vampire Series.
Also the only book that was slow paced out of all of them was the fourth book, Feast Of Fools but it does pick up by the ending.
At A GlanceGenre: Young Adult; VampireLove Triangle/Insta Love/Obsesion?: noCliff Hanger: EhRating: 2 StarsScore SheetAll out of tenCover: 7Plot: 5Characters: 4World Building: 5Flow: 3Series Congruity: 8Writing: 6Ending: 8Total: 6In DeptBest Part: Stupid cliffhanger keeps me going.Worst Part: Everything before the cliffhangerThoughts Had: Dumb; Dumber; UghConclusionContinuing the Series: ugh.Recommending: not reallyShort Review: This book is 25% sexual tension. 25% all of them being b*thces towards each other. 25% worthless fluff. 25% real action that i cared about. Gag. I might finish the series out for buddy read points but that's about it. Review in GIF Form:
So much happens.
Plenty of angst all around and now, even more danger with Claire's parents in town.Truly, Morganville goes to hell in a handbasket in this volume when Amelie's Father comes to town.
So are the vamps he brings with him.
Francois is no better.Jason---will someone kill this guy already?!
For a crazy guy, he's an excellent actor.
I can't believe what he did to Amelie.
What was he really up to that night he almost kidnapped Claire?I honestly don't know what will happen next.
This guy is serious bad news.
Love that crazy ass vamp.
Again it took place over a relatively short period of time, and the pace felt quite slow.
For me this didn’t get interesting until the 86% mark, and even then it was touch and go.The ending was okay, but it felt more like the beginning of something rather than the end.
I’m hoping that the next book will be a little more interesting, as it is going to be a heck of a long series if they’re all as dull as this one.Overall; okay, but the pace was too slow,6 out of 10.
It's been a while since I last read this series, but I remembered thinking it was pretty good.Thankfully, Ms. Caine gives a nice little re-cap at the beginning of her books.
I think I love her a little bit for that, because it really helped me out.
The plot didn't really blow me away, but there was plenty of action, and a huge cliffhanger ending.
Which prompted me to immediately download Lord of Misrule from my library.If I remember correctly, cliffhangers are the bread and butter of this series.
I'm undecided on how I feel about that, but I don't have anything better to read right now.
Ah Bishop, you make things so interesting.My interest had started to wan somewhat over the last couple of books, but with the appearance of a big bad guy in town things start to spice up.
This was exactly what the series needed and had it taken longer to come about I would have been extremely disappointed.For me, I view this as a real turning point for the series.
Not just with characters but with there being a bigger plot at play, making it the point where the series grew to be truly interesting for me.I would like to say, however, that we need some consistency.
This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/Claire’s parents have moved into town and want her to move in with them; however, (on top of her worrying about their safety in a place filled with vampires) she has to tell them that she wants to stay in the Glass house instead.
However an ancient vampire, Mr Bishop, has arrived in town and is having a party and Morganville will soon realise that the vampires they already have are not as bad as they could be.
This has everything I love in a Morganville book from the brilliant characters and how they react together to the fantastic plot.
"Feast," Miranda said again, "You're all fools, all fools - don't let him trick you."amazing. Like, "keep you on the edge of your seat and your pulse racing" good.I couldn't turn the pages quick enough. I absolutely devoured and LOVED this one.Shane, Claire, Michael and Eve. They can't catch a break. I can't wait for them to get some wins!
