https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70875.Hollywood_Babylon
There has been more books written with more depth, and more detailed and changed info, but damn does this work as a quick read, as a companion to your sweet chocolate bar (I was eating the whole bar of white chocolate while rabidly turning the pages).Hollywood Babylon shortly chronicles the journey of Hollywood through scandals starting in the late '19 and ending with the late 60's.
The photographs alone are the reason to own and surf this one through.You could always Google, you could always read more studied and less gossipy work out of the history of Hollywood, but is that really what you want when going deep into the mud?
Kenneth Anger's Hollywood Babylon is a boiling cesspool of lies!
Practically none of this shit happened.
This Kenneth Angers person is blowing it all out of proportion just to sell a few measely books.
And Charlie Chaplin's mustache supplementing his income by performing mustache stand-in duties for Hitler?
Who actually believes this shit?
Trust my hairdresser that Kenneth Angers is laughing all the way to the bank as he'd believe these nice immigrant boys who harmlessly ran movie studios to bring joy to the public and employ Jayne Mansfield's prehistoric boob job.
"Wasted lives make waste, not tragedy." (413)And yet, this really isnt so.
The history of Hollywood in all its shady dealings & deaths--ending in the Manson Tate massacre--is sometimes too bloody a story to take in, but the viewer and fanboy is not heartless.
That so many of these "wasted" silver screen deities ended up in the loony bin, alone, unloved, is too often a repeated tale.
Those smiles and human emotions--that they are so fake and made up makes this American tragedy all the more pronounced.Also, Anger's tone is arguably disgusting.
The man is awful talking about actresses' deaths & shortcomings; mysoginistic, racist, deplorable.
So Hollywood!
One night I read “Hollywood Babylon” while guzzling an entire bottle of red Zinfandel and eventually fell asleep with the book by my bed.
I proceeded to have one of the worst nightmares of my life.I was in a silent film, scratchy, jumpy and dirty as hell – in it Albert Dekker was preparing his noose in ladies’ lingerie as Ramon Navarro looked on, William Ince was feeding bits of Marie Prevost to her dogs, and Fatty Arbuckle was tossing Jayne Mansfield’s head to Frances Farmer.When I awoke I practically jumped out of bed.
I looked at my copy of “Hollywood Babylon” and threw it in the closet.
EASY SLEAZE “I walk along the street of sorrow The boulevard of broken dreams Where gigolo and gigalette Can take a kiss without regret So they forget their broken dreams You laugh tonight and cry tomorrow When you behold your shattered dreams And gigolo and gigalette Awake to find their eyes are wet With tears that tell of broken dreams Here is where you'll always find me Always walking up and down But I left my soul behind me In an old cathedral town The joy that you find here you borrow You c
As the both feared and respected head of the Warner Brothers film studio, Jack had intimate knowledge of the dark underbelly of Golden Age Hollywood, the place where most dreams don’t come true at all, but come to perish in ignominy instead.
As a professional, a mere mention of it to one’s surroundings – let alone to the unsuspecting fans, whose naïve fantasies about their stars (deftly supplied to and greedily devoured by them) needed to be maintained at all cost – meant being branded either as ungrateful or, worse, a pariah.It would take a couple of decades (just as its influence was waning, perhaps unsurprisingly) before old Hollywood in earnest turned a self-critical, unflinching gaze towards itself, through such films as Sunset Boulevard (1950) and The Bad and the Beautiful (1952).
It really doesn't matter if the stories here are true or not - and some people get upset about this. But then they are missing the point. It's "Kenneth Anger's Hollywood Babylon." And it's the way he tells the stories which makes this book and Volume Two priceless.The mixture of images and Anger's text makes it into a feverish dream - and really, cinema should be a feverish dream. Essential. If one does not have this in their library, they are not film lovers. Just tourists.
It was a cult book. It was almost impossible to get it. It was the quest for the Holy Grail. It deserved to appear in hell of the National library. Kenneth Anger, underground film-maker. The book was a transgressive object the ownership of which conferred us a particular status.Often by moving, I lost my book. I acquired it recently. That to think of this book today, without pathos, without this émotive environment. This succession of glaucous story becomes fast boring. We feel becoming a Peeping Tom. A light faintness seizes us.In fact this book has not big interest.
Sucked me right down the gutters and dark alleys of the glittery and smutty Old Hollywood, so much so that I could barely stop to eat. Some stories are amusing, some pathetic, some disgusting, some sad, but every single one grabbed my attention. Anger writes in a very nifty style and the amount of pictures just add the allure.
Glorious garbage. Some of it true. What isn't true is even better.
The most famous images from "Intolerance" involve the massive set of Babylon, with giant columns topped by white elephants - every bit of that being perfect ironic, thematic fodder for Anger's book.The "Intolerance" set sat weedy and decaying for years over the growing new Babylon, an eyesore and reminder of the quickly forgotten past in a place where you're only as good as your next picture.
This is all about whose pretty little C list head was found in a locker at Grand central Station, which no longer famous former star was eaten by her own pet poodles (they might look chic, dear, but they have no taste at all), who put this there and that  there  and had to be revived by medics who could not believe what they were seeing, who couldn't do it without various types of rigs and harnesses, who did it an extraordinary number of times in one weekend and was filmed the whole time, and so on, and so forth.
A relic of more innocent times.
Σωστά; Όμως τι κρύβεται στο παρασκήνιο, πίσω από τις κουρτίνες; Τι κρύβουν οι ηθοποιοί, οι σκηνοθέτες, οι σεναριογράφοι, οι παραγωγοί, γενικά οι άνθρωποι που συμμετέχουν με τον έναν ή τον άλλο τρόπο σε μια ταινία; Πίσω από την λαμπρή εικόνα των σταρ του σινεμά, κρύβονται ανθρώπινα πάθη και δράματα, ένοχα μυστικά, στιγμές ακολασίας, τα πάντα όλα.
Με το βιβλίο αυτό μαθαίνουμε τα ένοχα μυστικά πολλών ηθοποιών, σκηνοθετών, σεναριογράφων και παραγωγών του Χόλιγουντ, πολύ παλαιών δεκαετιών όμως.
Είναι ένα βιβλίο που μας δίνει την ευκαιρία να γνωρίσουμε το (πολύ) παλιό Χόλιγουντ και να καταλάβουμε ότι τα σημερινά σκάνδαλα δεν πιάνουν μια μπροστά στα παλιά (χμ, ίσως γιατί έχουμε συνηθίσει...).
You read about Fatty Arbuckle, Lana Turner, Charlie Chaplin, Errol Flynn and many more.An excellent plus is the wealth of black and white photos of these stars - some movie stills, some candid photos and some police shots from death scenes.One interesting this is to watch how the public's perception and expectations of movie stars changes over the years.
A pregnancy scandal could ruin a star in the 1920s, but Robert Mitchum was, if anything, more popular after going to jail for drugs in the 1950s.I'm no fan of the US, Star and People magazines of the world, but this book acts as a fascinating precursor.
I used to check this out regularly from my small-town public library back in middle and high school; I loved it because the library's innocuous cover meant my parents had no idea that I was reading something so (to use their word) sinful. Needless to say, it was an eye-opening experience, raising my awareness of a number of different behaviors, coupling possibilities, creative use of inanimate objects, etc. A copy now has pride of place on my bookshelf next to my other film books.
Embarrassed both for having read and not read this until now. The veracity of the stories isn't the point. It's a case of sitting down with the nelliest queen in all Nellydom and listening to caviar quality dirt. Who wouldn't?
Bizarre mish mash of scandalous lies and truth about Hollywood from the silents to the '50s. Fun read. Tame by today's standards when you think a former college and pro football star and actor can cut his wife's and her boyfriend's head off, lead police on a televised high speed chase, and get away with it. Michael Jackson. Phil Hartmann. Phil Spector. And on and on.
Entertainingly awful, even if some of it has been debunked.

I read this so I could appreciate the new season Karina Longworth’s podcast: You Must Remember This. In each episode, she’s debunking basically everything Anger has claimed. But the book itself is recklessly trashy, poorly written, especially the segments after 1940, which feel nearly stream of consciousness, with an assumption that the reader knows whom he’s describing. That would’ve been risky at the time of publication, but 40 years later it’s beyond annoying. On the plus side, the segments are relatively short, making it an ideal toilet read, which also seems appropriate given the tawdriness.
I know that whole novels (fiction and nonfiction) have been written on each chapter by other writers, digging through evidence and making educated theories, but here they all are in all their depravity - from the famous like Fatty Arbuckle's rape case and the murder of Johnny Stompanato by Lana Turner's daughter, to the mental breakdown of Frances Farmer, to the diaries of Mary Astor and the self destruction of so many actors and actresses who just did not survive the talkies and the depression and the fame.
Layout wise this book is a nightmare; unlabelled photos, unsourced quotes and heavy handed underlining that serves no purpose (except possibly to make it look like a dodgy webpage, some feat given this book was originally published in 1975!).I really cannot think of a way to adequately express how horrible the writing is; I found myself having to re-read numerous paragraphs just to make sense of them.
I love books about the golden age of Hollywood and gossip about the stars but in my mind there are far better books out there than this.
Hollywood Babylon is trashy and not in a good way.

Experimental filmmaker, Kenneth Anger details the sordid rumors of old Hollywood in a convoluted mess of glamorization and finger pointing.To be honest, I wish I hadn't wasted my time reading this.
It is pretty obvious that most of the stories Anger relates are based on rumor and speculation.
When, in many cases, actual facts are widely available, Anger ignores them in favor of titillating conjecture.
Each of the stories would be better served by a heavily researched look at the facts, but all we get is a few scant pages of cattiness and a lot of artfully collected promotional photos and movie stills of movie stars in "scandalous" situations.Plus, there is way too much unnecessary and distracting use of CAPITALIZATION and underlining.
Okay, so—admittedly—I went into this expecting a load of baloney.
For a man who was so close to Anton LaVey, I hoped for at least a few anecdotes of celebs in ill-lit robed circles, mumbling together in foreign tongues before disrobing and performing some fiendish acts.
I mean, c'mon Ken, this books panders to a very specific crowd, and without having a HUGE knowledge of stars from the silent era through '50s, it'd be easy to get lost in the sea of names the author throws around.I think I'll stick to what I know (and love) about Kenneth Anger: his bizarre and beautiful film work.
43/100Da hat sich jemand, der mal selbst als Kind ein Star war, auf seinem Dachboden verirrt und ist über eine paar alte Klatschblätter gestolpert. Die hat er dann ausgewertet und auch ein bisschen was ausgeschnitten. Das erste Buch ist zwar noch besser als das Zweite, aber beide verdienen den zweiten Stern für eine gewissen Pionierleistung. Beim ersten Durchgang hätte ich HB I vielleicht auf vier Sterne aufgerundet, HB II wären schon damals allenfalls gnadenhalber mit zweieinhalb bedacht worden.
I think we need to think more about:How interesting Kenneth Anger is & how he has moved between different art forms (is celebrity gossip an art form?).How myth and sacrifice work within celebrity (celebrity as a new religion has been done).Frances Farmer. I think about Frances Farmer everyday. Occupation: cocksucker.Curses. Is Hollywood cursed? Why are these figures cursed? Look at J.X. Williams & the Virgin Sacrifice.Anton LaVey was thanked.Treating fact like it is fiction.
Salacious volume of Hollywood calumny, lovingly assembled by one of underground cinema's self-styled bad boys, and notable for its complete lack of compassion. The chapters on Fatty Arbuckle and Thomas Ince are perhaps the most interesting because the stories have entered popular mythology. Most of the rest are merely prurient. In sum, the book is no longer the "luscious plum of sizzling scandal" it once was, and Anger's tabloid naughtiness has dated badly.
Misogynistic, racist, so over the top and yet fun.
I'm embarrassed to admit this one. I don't think you can review a book like this, really. It's like reviewing the National Enquirer magazine. It is what it is.
So it is only fair that I read this book as the unorganized, skeletal tabloid-based work than it is (at the time written to save a bankrupt Kenneth Anger and quench the thirst of sleaze and pulp readers) rather than in the coffee-table edition, meant for the collection of film-buffs of avant-garde interest, who bought the book because of its long-term underground appeal and transgressive, uncensored and unapologetic depiction of the machine that is Hollywood.
