https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114511.A_Sport_and_a_Pastime
The novel operates, in a sense, as a reverse  The Great Gatsby: here our effaced narrator is not a young man (Nick) who witnesses the tragedy of heroism as embodied by the older, more storied man (Gatsby), but instead, is an older man, mourning time's inexorable erasure of youth through the creative act of witnessing (fantasizing/creating) the heroic younger man (Dean).The novel is a novel of obsession, which at first seems to fixate on Dean and Anne-Marie's sex.
Our narrator's fixation on Dean and Anne-Marie is a fixing of time, and a fixing of the timelessness of the sexual moment.The novel's end, its shift from the promise of authenticity (see "The Real France") to its descriptive passages of the town gone arid, mark, at last, the impossibility of the narrator's project.
“It's as if a huge deck of images is being shuffled.”Hmm-bert?“None of this is true… I am only putting down details which entered me, fragments that were able to part my flesh.”This is the story of Phillip Dean who has just dropped out of Yale, visits the south of France, and forms a relationship with a local girl, Anne-Marie.
The real story is that of the narrator: how and why he’s really in France, how he knows Phillip, and especially (view spoiler)[ the nature of his relationship with Phillip (what it is, as well as what he might like it to be) (hide spoiler)].
The subtlety with which Salter writes means you're never quite sure if Dean loves Ann-Marie or is abusing her.
I've read that James Salter has been accused of being a misogynist but if he is then here he's examining very critically and brilliantly its mechanisms, the ways a man can trick a woman into surrendering up her heart while remaining essentially detached.
The depiction of France from the point of view of a visitor is stunning, one of the best evocations of place I've ever read.
I've now read most of Salter's books and this is my favourite.
In there, the James Salter intensely erotical account of the romance between Dean and Anne-Marie, a Yale dropout and a French waitress, serves to rekindle the passion of a tired middle aged couple.Given the explicit sexual content, the novel might not be for anyone, but I believe Salter treated the subject of physical love with an artist brush, stylishly and emotionally rather than mechanically.
The transitions between the narrator and the lovers perspectives are intentionally blurred, emotions are more important than facts, dreams are confused with memories and places (villages, towns, an endless series of anonimous hotel rooms ) become interchangeable, the only constant being the passion between Dean and Anne-Marie.So let's look more closely at them.
How rare is it to find exquisite, naked-as-a-jaybird, hot-as-Hades, life affirming sex scenes in a book of lit-fic?
Like I'm going to wake up after I write this review, open the book, and find reams of pages about auto manufacturing, or people in lab coats saying "genitals" over and over while indicating to a medical diagram.
Except, you just have to open the book to any page, and you will find passages that cut you open, make you pant, tell the truth about sexual love and the fluctuating, unfair nature of relationships.
Salter's story explores love, voyeurism, youth and impermanence.
Give me a minute while I light my cigarette with my shaky hands, take a load off my mind, too.Wow. For a lady who is determined to find literary smut and is so often disappointed, I've got to tell you .
he went even further.
went and made sexual intercourse a goddamned protagonist.
Made it the entire plot of this novel.
I could fill this entire review with my favorite lines.I can not deny Salter's observations or writing.
Mr. Salter.
The great bed begins creaking.
Her breath becomes short.
He hooks his knees outside her legs and drives himself deeper.“Oh,” she breathes, “that's the best.”When he comes, it downs them both.
Exquisite writing, “sophisticated” someone called it, very erotic. The pages fly by; I don’t even remember turning them. In my mind it’s a modern classic.
He hasn't the strength to dream, or rather, his dreams take place while he is awake and they are marvelous for at least one quality: he has the power to prolong them. he has a dream of France. wintry and grey, rain and empty streets. he has a dream of a younger version of himself, handsome and aloof, virile. a tabula rasa of sorts. he can project himself onto that blank slate, into a story that he has made, and he does; but it is not his, not really. it is his dream version of that story, that
he has a dream of France.
it is his dream version of that story, that young man, that time in France.
he has a dream of a romance, fated to end as soon as it has begun.
he dreams himself into that romance.
it is not wispy and full of ambiguity; it is all sharp details and precisely painted pictures, characters finely etched, many small and intimate things.
he is not of France but he could be mistaken for such.
a mors ex machina.his dream is a dream of sex as well.
graphic sex, explicit details.
it's his dream after all.
It’s a story of things that never existed although even the faintest doubt of that, the smallest possibility, plunges everything into darkness.For whatever reason, Philip and Anne-Marie’s affair has gripped the narrator in a feverish passion.
They’re like my own children, and they illustrate an affection which has little reason to, which in fact does not exist except that she – at the very bottom it is her only real distinction – she knows how to make things come true.
In fact, the thing that impressed me most about A Sport and a Pastime is how little it evoked in me.
He seems to come, if I’m reading it correctly, on exactly the second stroke (doesn’t even abide by the three strikes before you’re out rule), which is probably why she was so profusely thankful.
Whilst, in all probability, the haemorrhage was hers and not his.Now, there are those who are going to say this book isn’t just about sex.
Harvey Swados does it so much better in ‘Nights in the Gardens of Brooklyn.’ A young American weary of the mortal coil seeking to put salve on his depression by going abroad?
In fact, anybody out there writing about a young American questing in parts beyond the seas has probably done it better.
absolutely some of the most beautiful prose ever. seriously. i'm now a james salter devotee. i'm glad i never had to read this book in a school setting because it's the kind of book that would be completely spoiled by literary analysis. "what phallic symbolism lies in the car?" "who is the narrator?" "how does the imvaginazation of the anus figure into the narrator's detachment from modern society?" blah. blah. BLAH. pick this up and let the language take you. forget the rest.
Phillip Dean and Anne-Marie – did they exist?
Or probably they were those people you see across a building or in a restaurant and never see again, but somewhere in your head they’ve implanted themselves and their imaginary lives take off like a runaway train.
We soon come to see that it’s Phillip Dean, not Anne-Marie, that he’s self-consciously coveting.
I am creating him out of my own inadequacies, you must always remember that.With my reading choices in the past year or two, I’ve come to realize that I’m an unreliable narrator enthusiast.
A few years ago Esquire published a list of 80 books every man should read that was so hilariously penis-centric that even they admitted it.
Here's the apotheosis of that list, a book firmly in the Miller / Bukowski tradition of young men taking their penises very seriously, a book where most of the suspense is "Will this dude's girlfriend let him try butt stuff?"Spoiler: (view spoiler)[yes.
He's obsessed with whether made-up Dean will get to try made-up butt stuff.
He's aware that he's fixated on Dean's penis.
Salter gets to have his cake and butt-fuck it, too.
There is more to this book than just enticing sex.
Do you need to like the characters in a story?
If so, the book might not be for you either.Here is brief outline that gives you the gist of the story.
They invite him to stay at their vacant house in Autun, a small provincial town in the Saône-et-Loire department of France.
At a party with friends, he meets another American, Philip Dean, also visiting France.
Dean travels around France with Anne Marie, returning from time to time to Autun.
About Dean and about Anne Marie.
I have mixed feelings about A Sport and a Pastime.
I'll try to express them here, although I'm sporting a headache and am not really in the mood to write a review.I came across this novel and its author only three days ago, through a GR friend's raving review.
Some paragraphs were exquisite.The rest:- The narration was really strange, as it's told in the first person by a voyeur/friend of the main male character, the twenty-four-year-old American, Dean.
I just didn't feel the connection between Dean and his nineteen-year-old French lover, Anne-Marie.
I regard James Salter's 'Light Years' as one from a small number of books that is destined to journey with me into the next life, so was expecting an elegant and poetic approach through this, which it did deliver early on as the detailed descriptions were stunning, however when the term 'erotic realism' was used as the fundamental core of the content alarm bells started ringing for me, but at least the setting was spot on, with the backdrop of Paris and provincial France providing a sensual paradise for young lovers Phillip Dean and shop girl Anne -Marie Cosallot to play out their intimate and searingly passionate time together, but I just found the pair to be on the dull side.
I like to think that the composer Ned Rorem, an admirer of A Sport and a Pastime, found in Salter’s style what he found in Debussy and Ravel—“a sound paradoxically opulent and lean," "sumptuous bones.” I also like that this novel, unlike, say, Guy Davenport’s Bordeaux-set “Some Lines of Virgil,” keeps aloof from sun-drenched sexual pastoral, the slicked and sweltering afternoon of the faun, and instead eroticizes a wintry drizzly France.
Awareness of its longueurs and indifference to its lovers cannot cancel the afterglow of its style, or the faint itch to read it again.As for the car, it's a curious thing--it's registered in the name of Pritchard, 16 bis rue Jardin, and they know him.
Set in 1960s Autun, France, this minor novel tells the story of a Yale drop-out, Philip Dean, and a 19-year-old French girl, Anne-Marie, as witnessed by an unnamed narrator, a 34-year-old photographer living in France.
It's a story of things that never existed." He admits that some things "I saw, some discovered, and some dreamed, and I can no longer differentiate between them." (One can't help but wonder why this fellow spends his time imagining his friends in bed.) But Salter's improbable narrative isn't as much of a problem as his flatly-drawn characters.
One of the finest endings in a novel I've had the pleasure to encounter.LK made a reference to 'On the Road' and I of course was immediately thinking of Fitzgerald.
Perfectly captured moments Hallmark could only destroy with its banality.So, while I recognize the story and the characters its not where my head rests; I don't actually care that much about those 'people'.(although I found myself thinking about them when I wasn't actually reading.)I do care about the author and what he is up to though and Salter is up to something wonderful and lovely here, at least with the phrasing of this novel.
When I was twenty-five pages away from finishing this book, I started planning out what I would say in my Goodreads review.
I was planning to write a review that was approving and yet subtly condescending, a review that was respectful and yet not without reservations.Then I read the last seven chapters of the book, and, thunderclap-like, my heart shattered.
April 1967 Birthday Read"Remember that the life of this world is but a sport and a pastime..." Koran, LVII 19Who would have thought this book's title came from the Koran?!
The sentences!!"He no longer lives in years; he is down to seasons." "Around her neck there are festoons of glass beads the color of nightclub kisses.""I wander the city like a somnambulist.""The food seems spread around her like vegetables to a roast.""I am possessed of nothing but phrases as heavy as logs."Unbelievable!!
Who writes sentences like these?!
I've wanted to read Salter for a long time, and my 1967 birthday challenge was a perfect opportunity to read what many consider his most popular novel.
I think I'm constitutionally unable to take sex--or, sorry, Sex--as seriously as this book does: "As his [redacted] goes into her, he discovers the world." (Apparently her vagina is Buddhism?) Some genuinely ugly business about race around the edges, too: "Eighteen, and a n[*****] for a boyfriend." Anyway, the narrator recounts (imagines?) an affair between Dean, a Yalie, and Anne-Marie, his lissome, personality-less French fuck-doll.
As their affair proceeds through her major orifices, they discover their interests: Dean, penetration; Anne, shopping.
It's always nice to read about young people getting on well together, but I don't know that their endless couplings really contain the secrets of the universe (masculine edition) in the way that the author thinks they do.
Ugh. So the good news is, Salter can really write. The bad news is, he writes boring, repetitive, self-indulgent and decidedly un-arousing prose about imagining anal sex with someone else's French (and therefore sexually liberal) girlfriend. In a way it's not unlike the GK Chesterton problem: a colossal misuse of literary skill. My advice: read the first 30-40 pages, close the book, get rid of it even, congratulate yourself on not spoiling your experience of some of the finest prose you've ever read by continuing further into the book, and never, ever look back.
Maybe I should have given it a five star rating; I'll think about it over the next week or so.Salter beautifully describes France, and for me that has a firm claim on my attention; my parents lived in France in the time period in which his book is set, and I have wonderful photos of my mother as a young woman in a market in Montmartre in the 1960’s.
The method of narration is unusual; a slightly older man describing a younger friend’s relationship with a young French woman, and he writes as though he had been present at their most private moments, when clearly he was not.
Phillip occasionally mingles with the other characters of the book--even taking the narrator himself out on a roadtrip of provincial France--but stays mostly by the side (and in the bed) of the second half of the amorous couple, Anne-Marie Costallat, the eighteen-year old French girl from the small town called Autun.
Why is the narrator making up this persona of Dean, filling the gaps of his observations with explicit details of the love lives between Dean and Anne-Marie?
So, when Dean so effortlessly wins the affections of Anne-Marie, the narrator forms a full-on obsession.
"This blue, indolent town. Its cats. Its pale sky. The empty sky of morning, drained and pure. Its deep, cloven streets. Its narrow courts, the faint, rotten odor within, orange peels lying in the corners. The uneven curbstones, their edges worn away. A town of doctors, all with large houses".The style is purely photographic and the story is absolutely lucid. It's a great tale of passion and fate.
They vanish.Thus spake the first-person narrator in a book where 1st and 3rd person POV blend so unnaturally that the reader is put on alert.
What if I were a man like this Phillip Dean dude -- young, handsome, charismatic?And so begins a book that, Gatsby-like, is less about its narrator than about the young man and mistress he invents.
How their imaginations address their much more prosaic realities through the medium of words?Yes, but in this case the writing's quite pretty.
I say the main character has made it all up, that Phillip Dean doesn't even exist, but maybe I'm an unreliable reader.
I just finished this and the aubible sound my mouth made was "wow".
I trust that unconscious audible reaction, and am amazed when I hear it, how pure it is, all that's needed for an honest review.
Fantastic sentences.
France.
A page of dated racism makes it a period piece, as do some classist/sexist passages, but the luscious, lascivious, lovingly rendered buggery descriptions are timeless.
It's not all naughtiness: the sky is described as a ruined palazzo.
Makes you wonder if Updike stole "a ruined wedding cake" from Salter to describe the Colisseum or if Salter stole it from him.
An erotic novel, supposedly.
But the hero is the writing itself--Hemingway-esque, but Fitzgerald-esque as well, because the events are told through a third-party narrator.
And he's an unreliable narrator: emotionally stunted; jealous; neither physically present to see, nor told, the facts.
And there are hints the narrator's admiration may be, at least in part, homosexual.
So it's a gauzy portrait where the reader has to interpolate between the first and third persons.
All while our narrator lurks -- just like the reader -- as a voyeur.
Even if you buy for the sex, you'll stay for the writing.
Of his five novels Salter has publicly stated that only  A Sport and a Pastime has come close to living up to his standards.
Salter's style in  A Sport and a Pastime reminded me of Hemingway and the narrative of Henry Miller.
Here Salter describes Paris after the August holidays:“September.
It is like a crime that cannot be undone."The book itself is one sustained piece of erotica describing an intense love affair between a young French girl and an American tourist.
The narrator describes their trysts in elaborate detail but how does he know?
