https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/568095.Quest_for_Lost_Heroes
This novel is proof that a book, despite its secondariness and being to a large extent a derivative, can be a very good read.The story takes place about twenty years after the events described in “The King Beyond the Gate.” After the fall of Dros Delnoch (presently Tanaka Castle) the Nadir flooded the Drenai lands, destroying, killing, raping and kidnapping.
Regardless of whether you know the previous volumes of the cycle (or other Gemmell’s books) or would it be your first contact with this author, I’d encourage you to give it a chance.---Also in The Drenai Saga: 1.
Uniti nel combattere noi stessi "Mi hanno riversato nelle mani vino e cene, denaro e regali...ero sulla cima della montagna, ma lassù non c'era nulla.
Soltanto nuvole.Ho scoperto che non potevo vivere sulla montagna, ma quando essa ti getta giù...
Ucciderei per poterla scalare ancora...venderei la mia anima...ed è così stupido."Gli eroi di Gemmell, tutt'altro che invincibili, sono soprattutto uomini che devono combattere con i propri fantasmi: ognuno di loro ha un passato con la quale fare i conti, oppure colpe da cui sono fuggiti per tutta la vita, mentendo a se stessi nella speranza di ritrovare un equilibrio interiore.Catturata l'essenza dell'eroe, spesso eccessivamente mitizzato oltre i meriti e la realtà stessa, quello che rimane sono luci ed ombre nell'animo di chi, perso tutto, cerca semplicemente la forza di potersi guardare allo specchio per un altro giorno ancora, prima della fine.
Gemel je uvek za 5 zvezdica! Odlicna knjiga koja govori o grupi zaboravljenih junaka koji pomazu jednom mladicu da vrati devojku koju su razbojnici oteli iz njihovog sela. Tu je puno akcije magije i borilackih vestina sa dalekog istoka :) puno psiholoskih momenata u ovoj prici ima. Prica vas veze za likove koje pratite a opisi su kao da ste sa njima u poslanju zajedno i vi
Final rating: 4.5/5 starsOh boy. Where do I even start. I know! Let's start with love.Uncoditional love...Brotherly love...Cofigthers love...Friendship love...Sibling love (and hate)...unrequited love...All of these are factors that gather one particular group to search for missing captive women, or in this case, only one, Ravena.  ► STORY: Kiall, from their village, cannot stand by and do nothing while their women are taken away, so he goes on quest and meets Chareos the Blademaster, Beltzer th
Chareos doesn't know what to do with his life so he accepts the quest from 19y.o. Kiall, who is a dreamer and your actual nice guy no one deserves.
⚠ Standalone: Yes, but connected to previous books in Drenai Saga.⚠ Point of View: Third POV, multiply characters.⚠ Cliffhanger: No⚠ Triggers: (view spoiler)[gang rape - not explicit but you are well aware it's happening and that it has happened.
(hide spoiler)]⚠ Love triangle: No⚠ Angst: yes⚠ Supernatural: demons, ghosts, magic, etc⚠ Explicit content: Not graphical, but you know it's happening⚠ Ending type: (view spoiler)[bitersweet, not everyone end up alive  (hide spoiler)]⚠ Recommended: Yes
Ali ovo je klasičan Gemel, koji je uspeo da me iznenadi time što ovog puta (nakon tri romana), nema borbu na zidinama neke utvrde, iako sam u jednom trenutku pomislio da će biti (o ne, ne opet).
Pa nas je na kratko prošetao i do samog Dros Delnoka.Gemel nas ne vezuje za likove, svi njegovi likovi su prolazni i za jednokratnu upotrebu (osim onog nadrdanog Skitaoca kome je neka vračara prorekla da se pazi žene riđe kose, pa je morao da ga reprizira čak tri puta), mi se sami vežemo za njih iako smo kod Legende videli da čak i glavni likovi „žive“ samo stotinak strana.
Quest for Lost Heroes is only the second fantasy novel by David Gemmell that I have read.
I liked the fact that Gemmell captured heroism without glorifying battle and that he didn’t oversimplify the quests of his protagonist(s) with nationalistic/racist slogans.
That is the tale that makes Quest for Lost Heroes worth reading.
221) In short, I truly enjoyed Quest for Lost Heroes with its maturing of young Kiall and the veterans discovering something of what it means to be “the ghosts yet to be.”
Oggi puntiamo sull'epic fantasy con un commento a cura del nostro Carsit :)http://piumaecalamaio.blogspot.it/201...
I started this book with a pang in my heart because I knew that my favorite half-Nadir, half-Drenai, Tenaka Khan was dead.
His son was now the Khan of the Nadir and his daughter, Tanaki, exiled.
Having conquered the Drenai, the Nadir were now the ruling nation in power.This story brought to my mind the image of a snowball rolling down a hill, gathering mass and momentum until at the bottom it’s the size of a mountain, headed on a collision course.
Unthinkable atrocities and heartbreak.And Tenaka Khan, decent and noble as always, even in death.Posted on Blog
Instead, his characters are flawed, though interesting and ultimately redeemable.Gemmell writes his books in multi-volume series, but the different volumes in a series may take place dozens or even hundreds of years apart in time (the Bloodstone series even starts in ancient England for two books and then shifts to post-apocalyptic America for the rest of the stories).
But no matter whether the same characters appear from one story to another, you will still find each book to be self-contained, completely readable, and a huge amount of fun.Pick up the first volume of any of Gemmell's series (start with Legend, the beginning of his Drenai saga) and see if you don't agree.
Ελαφρως κατωτερο των προηγουμενων κατα μισο αστερακι.Η μεταφρασμενη σειρα απο το επος των ντρεναι ειναι ενα εξαιρετικο δειγμα ηρωικης φαντασιας,που αξιζει να διαβαστει απο τους fantasy οπαδους!!!!!

He was lucky as several great heroes who survived the last onslaught of Nadir hordes joined him out of sheer boredom - mostly.
MINOR SPOILER follows: it also turned out in the end the quest was somewhat useless and I really do not understand why people did some additional tasks - considering one of them was a seer who should be able to see that these tasks were not in their best interests.The final verdict should be 3.5 stars: at least this book made me want to continue reading the series which I was sure I will abandon after this installment.
Okay, apparently, I read the first two books of this series a long time ago.
The big battle that made the guys our heroes was covered in those, but not reading them probably would not affect the reader too terribly.One of the things I liked about this book was that the author used little tricks to "condense" the book from normal fantasy novels.
He uses a "Spirit Path" and a "Magic Gateway" to move his characters quickly from one territory to another-- thus condensing the normal journey and many campfire conversations--- At times, this was a little bit annoying..
Gemmell has a knack for action that lifts him above every other author I've encountered: his fights are short, bloody and achieve a level of style and realism that few other authors can match up to.
It may be because Gemmell actually researched his fight scenes, heading out into his back garden to practise with makeshift weaponry, but he's bloody good.The philosophical side to the story is the icing on the cake, really.
Never mind - QUEST FOR LOST HEROES is still a fine read from one of my top authors of all time.
Another good, not mind blowing entry for the Drenai Series.At this point, it seems that all of Gemmell's books (or atleast this series) are going to be fast paced, classical fantasy stories.
He did change up the plot from the first two novels, as there was no main characters defending against a siege against all the odds, so that was nice.These books remind me of the Redwall books from my childhood: Each book can be read as a stand alone, there are always descandants/relatives of characters from previous books, and even though the reader has heard the same story before...
the author has a way of captivating his audience.Quickly becoming my go to series after I read long, cerebral books that make my brain hurt (yes, I'm looking at you Steven Erikson).
Book 4 of the Drenai introduced more fantasy elements than I would have liked, but the story, characters, and writing are all still vintage David Gemmell.
Absolutely excellent.
I love the new host of "washed up" heroes, Chareos, Beltzer, Finn, and Maggrig.
The Nadir with a tie-in to our friend from book 2, Tenaka Kahn, is also a strong element.
I expect them to see more action in future novels in the series.
A Quest for Lost Heroes gives us new, reminds of old, and introduces several storylines that we can expect to see throughout the remainder of the Drenai saga.
I thought that I had read all of Gemmell's novels so it was a nice surprise to come across this one and discover that I hadn't.
Especially since, I had no business buying this in the first place because we are moving and trying to divest ourselves of as many books as possible.
But he's one of my favourite authors, and it was a buy one, get one free deal....
for 1 euro.
Seriously, who could resist.This one goes to the top of my Gemmell novels.
He's good at writing about seemingly unlikeable characters and then peeling away the layers to show that there is more to them.
Forse 5 stelle sono esagerate... ma per me in questo momento li vale per le emozioni che mi ha dato. Gemmell rendi sempre tutto più bello.
As vezes eu me pergunto se o David Gemmell escreveu algum livro ruim.
Quest for Lost Heroes (The Drenai Saga, #4), David Gemmell
The author never explains the warriors' reasons for joining the quest, but additionally makes not hints, so as a result the reader is simply asked to suspend disbelief: not something so easily done.Notably absent: The Thirty.In this book, you get greater evidence for your Nadir = Huns (as in Attila the) parallel that originally started by mentioning them to be nomadic people of the steppes with slanted eyes.
All that remains yet to be revealed in terms of epic empires is a Viking analogue and perhaps that shall come in future books.
I've been slogging my way through the Drenai books without much enjoyment - because I foolishly bought them all in a sale before reading any of them.
In this book however he surpasses himself with a scene of sexual violence so awful that it actually made me feel sick to my stomach - followed by his traditional bit of one character then excusing the perpetrators to another.
So that's the last straw - I'm done with these books and this author
In Quest for Lost Heroes, David Gemmell again jumps ahead many years, thereby giving The Drenai Saga truly epic scope and historical context.However, this time round, Gemmell's heroes are not as well-rounded.
Kiall, the foil that launches this adventure, is your stereotypical villager, but his niave sweetness is not endearing and his motivations are as defined as mud.
The deep relationship between the bowmen, Finn and Maggrig is never really defined by Gemmell and perhaps the novel is poorer for it.Certainly a rollicking adventure, David Gemmell style, but certainly not one of his best.
Kiall aime Ravenna. Mais elle l'a rejeté, le trouvant par trop rêveur. Mais un jour elle est enlevé par des bandits et Kiall se lance à ses trousses. Il n'a rien d'héroique chez lui mais il se dit guidé par l'amour. S'entourant des héros qui ont résisté au siège de Bel-Azar, il va donc partir accomplir son destin. C'est une histoire dure, où les héros sont dépeint de manière moins noble. Ils sont plus cyniques, vulgaires et crasseux que d'autres. Mais ils ont néanmoins eux-aussi quelque chose à dooner au lecteur.
This was a great epic fantasy.
You have to read the books in order though.
The author refers to a lot of previous events and does not explain them for new readers.
The hero wants to rescue a woman who was kidnapped from his village by slavers.
Along the way, he stumbles into a legendary band of former heroes (from the legendary battle of Bel-azar) who agree to help him rescue her.A quest full of adventure, hardship, friendship, and action.
Note: The epilogue to this book was really good and catches you up on what everyone is up to.
E ingiustizia fuUn'ingiustizia e una donna sono la scintilla che alimenta l'orgoglio di un ragazzo, disposto a tutto pur di porvi rimedio e spinto dall'irrefrenabile forza dell'Amore — o dall'idea che di esso si è costruito. E così, aiutato da una manciata di personaggi affiancatogli dal destino, uomini alla ricerca di un riscatto personale, si imbarca in un'avventura dall'improbabile risultato.Scritta così assomiglia alla solita Compagnia in cerca dell'oggetto di turno. In fondo lo è, ma senza le banalizzazioni di tante storie simili.
The first heroic fantasy novel I ever read, given to me by my 9th grade history teacher who was getting rid of a bunch of old books. I wish I could go back and thank Mrs. Yaeger for that. This book was instrumental in turning me into the fantasy fan I am today. Really want to go back and read it again, but it's in a box back at my father's place.It was the perfect story for a 15 year old mind curious about fantasy and looking to learn more.
French review of this book :https://arckhangelos.wordpress.com/20...
I greatly enjoy that Gemmell writes about aging heroes. Gemmell seems to have stepped away from his usual focus on the Thirty's good vs. evil battles. This is a fun story and well worth reading.
Review to come.
