https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64948.Whispers
Koontz-Alert Checklist (Every Dean Koontz book has at least one of the following ten eleven things.)1.
Psychic(s) - Nope (But there was a mention of second sight)and introducing the newest Koontz Alert...11.
Incest - Yup.I'd forgotten how prevalent incest is in Koontz books.
The idea is sickening, but I wonder if that's what Koontz was getting at with that scene.
That second sex scene between the MCs (I read this book and I still can't be bothered to remember their names...
First time I've ever fast forwarded through a scene in an audio book.
I love the intense adrenalin laced stories, So eh, call me a thrill seeker.Koontz did a great job with his characters, I learned a lot about them accept for Bruno.
I would have liked to know a little more at the beginning, but then again it also built the anticipation up the closer I got to the real deal.The story kinda a stalled a little bit for me.
It kinda left me feeling like I did not know how to feel about Bruno or his mother.
Koontz was able to make me feel all kinds of emotions while reading this one and I thoroughly enjoyed it.Whispers...
Koontzland Group Read - March 2018 A nice scene is with the bartender, Otto showing all violent customers with his beer glass biting stunt to keep them quiet (e.g. Bobby). Detective Partners Lieutenant Tony Clemenza and Lieutenant Frank Howard cannot believe it....Whispers - the 1990 Canadian film (link)  My Sept 2015 read An easy read with not many characters and simple plot. Hilary Thomas - L.A. movie screen writer says she was assaulted and raped by Bruno Frye, someone she knew, (Or a spirit
Detective Partners Lieutenant Tony Clemenza and Lieutenant Frank Howard cannot believe it....Whispers - the 1990 Canadian film (link)
Detective Partners Lieutenant Tony Clemenza (grows attraction with great Hillary/Tony love/sex scenes.Det. Lieutenant Frank Howard (initially accuses her of purjury) investigate the case.
Re: Hillary is not believed as Napa County Sheriff Peter Laurenski says Bruno Frye was in his Napa County winnery home at the same time of the rape, 400 miles away.
Bruno is killed, how can Hillary, Frank & Tony prove he's still alive to kill - His regeneration?
Read Whispers and/or Winter Moon in March Vote

I listened to the audiobook of Whispers in 2013, while I was painting my new condo :-) I read the book for the second time in 2016.
(view spoiler)[ The cockroaches & family history remind me of my own, but the cockroaches that infect my mom's house are just small ones and not two- inch ones that come up from Hell in Whispers.
(hide spoiler)]Elements of the story remind of me of other Dean Koontz novels including: Shadowfires, Mr. Murder and The Bad Place.
One of the few readily available Dean Koontz books I had not yet read.
As a horror-starved teenager I got wind of Koontz first for Phantoms and then for Strangers. Following these two (Swedish publishing order), it was this book. Not quite what I was prepared for or expecting, but a good read nonetheless. More psychological thriller than the horror I expected at the time, but some very effective chills and way before Koontz strangely enough became that truly annoying word-spewer of cliches and incredibly annoying characters.
I finished the book about a week ago, but I held back with writing my review for the simple fact of needing time to think about it.
'Whispers' was my fourth Dean Koontz novel and like the case with all them before; I finished reading and was sitting on the proverbial fence.
After reading them and being left disappointed, a friend of mine - another book buddy who's a fan of Koontz suggested I try some of his earlier novels.
I haven't given up on Mr. Koontz yet.
I will keep trying until I find that one DK book that truly impresses me.
Another crazy mother who mentally destroys her children, so that, in their adulthood, they're homicidal and unbalanced, yet still walking free in society like everyone else.Hilary survives an attack by an assailant she recognizes, and finds that her plea to the police is met by doubt, as the attacker has an alibi.
The second attack on Hilary becomes bloody for the attacker, and the police are finally able to verify Hilary's need to call for help.The surprise in this story wasn't Hilary, or her strength standing up to an attacker on two different occasions.
The first time I read this book I was in high school. I found it to be one of the scariest books ever! I've since read it again on several different occasions, that's how good I found this book to be. Makes the hair on your neck stand on end!
I read this book when it first came out and there was one part I didn't care for but I decided to reread it again this month as a Koontzland read and boy am I glad I did.This book was exciting from the beginning to the end. The part that bothered me still bothered me but not as much and didn't keep me from enjoying the book. Koontz at his finest here.
"Whispers" (1980) was the book that launched Koontz onto the bestseller lists, and it's a wonder why.What to say about this book?
Bruno Frye is stalking Hilary whatsername, a young, wealthy, beautiful and succesful (hey, it's Koontz) screenwriter.
Enter a brave cop, Tony Clemenza, who's going to save our damsel from all distresses, on all three thousands pages that follow.Whispers is way too long, way to cliched, and way to boring - the climax is something V.C. Andrews readers might employ, but in Koontz's case it comes far to late to save the completely pointless intersection.
Not recommended; some antics are better left undisturbed.
Εξαιρετικό βιβλίο γεμάτο ένταση, αγωνία, φόβο. Παρ όλο που καταλαβαίνεις σχετικά νωρίς τι γίνεται, θέλεις να συνεχίσεις την ανάγνωση. Ωραίες περιγραφές και διάλογοι. Και υπάρχουν και κάποιες στιγμές που πραγματικά θες να φας τα νύχια σου. Απο τις παλιές καλές εποχές του Κουντζ. Είναι εξαντλημένο, αλλά με λίγη τύχη μπορεί και να το πετύχεται.
60% into this book and not worth the time. I'm so disappointed. Such a waste of my reading time.
I like it.So, while I can't list this as one of Koontz's best it's still a good one and I'd recommend you give it a try and see what you think.Scary at times...a bit of a gross-out at other times dealing with unpleasant subjects but not the worst I've run on by any means.
Koontz does deal with unpleasant subjects often so you know that going in...be ready and I don't think it'll surprise.
This book was recommended by a friend, and I'm glad.
It was a fun and easy read, that kept me at the edge of my seat.
It was fun (in a weird way) to put myself in the story.
I loved the twists and turns Dean took me through.
I love trying to solve the crime before the authorities, with this book, I couldn't!
Too many twists!
The book was great if you like thrill, suspense, and a little sexiness.
Tony and Hilary had a (somewhat) cliched romance that you couldn't help but admire and adore.Good read, Dean.
Good read.
Started reading this, so far this book is crap. Woman gets attacked, attempted rape at her own home, shoots the guy, then lets him walk out. Then shes questioned by the cops and they blame her. The dialog is unbelievable. At one point, a cop who is interviewing her thinks to himself, I wanna bang her. Just too unbelievable.
The dialogue is horrible. The sex scenes are unreadable. Take all that away and you got a pretty creepy story. And since the last few books of Koontz that I read were lousy I was pleasantly surprised that this one kept my interest despite all it's flaws. Oh and there's no dog in this one.
The overall story is good but the entire novel seems to be packed with opinions the author wants to share with the world. Opinions I don’t agree with. Opinions I despise.Also there is a toad that croaks on cue and some of the author’s word choices are a bit jarring. Coquette. Perspicacity. Penitent. Really?
It's like the author basically thinks to himself, "Here, let me prove that I thought this thing through from all sides so that you cannot roll your eyes about how implausible this is." There are tons of "This doesn't sound possible" moments followed by lots and lots of discussion between characters deciding that it is possible and then conveniently explaining why.
A pattern developed where we would cut to the H/H, having a debate with the woman all scared and whining.
Just really annoying and by the time anything was actually "revealed" it was such old news that you wanted things to get on already.
Nope it was intricately and elaborately plotted.It also had one of the best love stories I have ever read.The only thing that doesn't hold up over the passage of time is due to telephone technology.
With today's advent of cell phones, answering machines, caller ID, and call blocking it seems as if we have to hark back to the days of horse and buggies to understand how someone could terrorize another by simply making a threatening phone call.Other than that, I think the majority of the story holds up well and it is one of my all time favorites.
It's cliched romance and an unrelatable main character (Hilary) also made this kind of a painful read.
Which brings me to the annoying romance that occurs.
I'm all for a GOOD romance, but geeze, this is like the crappy Romance novels you pick up at the super market during vacation because you either forgot to bring a book or you already finished (several times) the one you brought.That aside, the serial rapist/murderer was kind of interesting.
I found myself being much more interested in his story than in Hilary's.
The book is heavy with explaination, his villian isn't as chilling as the deranged killer from Hideaway, the twisted doctor from False Memory, or the demented sherieff from Intensity.
The Koontz villian typically is proudly a loner who uses murder and/or brutality as a subsitute for imtimacy.
His monsters use the shields of their outward forms to better become predators.
The killer here doesn't.
It also suffers from the obviousness of the killer's idenity.
You can see why this would be a device he would rarely use again.
There was a time when I thought Dean Koontz wrote circles around Stephen King.
He wasn’t famous.
He had a cult following and he made you feel like you just discovered someone cool.
He was the anti-King you could keep to yourself or share with a selected few.
Koontz, of course, went the way of all flesh and began cranking them out and repeating himself.
Fame?
Well, if ‘Family Guy’ rips on you, fame has become your enemy.
I haven’t read a Koontz novel since Odd Thomas became a regular character.
The early books were dynamic, rip-snorting fast and most of all—interesting.
Definitivamente este género no es lo mío, no puedo decir que este libro sea malo, porque de hecho no
I was a little disappointed that it took Hilary and Tony so long to think that Mr. Frye might have (view spoiler)[had an identical twin (hide spoiler)].
But I suppose not having them think of this sooner was a way for Koontz to ratchet up the suspense.
The other thing I didn't really care for was the final encounter (view spoiler)[between Hilary and Frye: the roaches in the cellar seemed incredibly anticlimactic to me.
Perhaps because out of a 444 page book, only a couple pages were spent describing the horror of them (hide spoiler)].
Been a long time but I remember this being so vivid that I could literally feel cock roaches crawling over my body as I read it. The descriptions were creepy and frightening and it was a very hard to put down book.
I read this book in High School it's Koontz first book I read!!! Started reading Koontz after this!!! Book has a great twist, never even noticed.
Intriguing (and, for me, amusing) descriptions of things, especially household items (I'm always amused by the food...whenever there is an inventory of food in a Koontz book, there always seem to be Vienna sausages...which totally aren't my thing and I've never actually seen what they look like, though they must be a Koontz favorite since he always talks about those, and fruit and cheese, and wine, etc...) Also there are the recurring themes of loneliness, troubled childhoods, villains with twisted pasts, not so much shades of black and white but a smeared grey at times...as well as visions of the high life, a character with an interest in art, several police officers, a lovable old curmudgeon (I often feel that Joshua Rhinehart, the lawyer in this books, and Garrison Dilworth, the lawyer from Watchers, are like two sides of the same coin...different in personality yet ultimately alike, and makes me wonder if both were derived from a friend or acquaintance in Mr. Koontz's real life, as is often the case with character archetypes who pop up more than once in an author's writing).I liked Hilary and Tony, the protagonists.
Hillary, who much like Bruno, has her own childhood issues, starts a relationship with the detective on the case, and they have to delve into the mystery of Bruno Frye.There was good and bad in this novel.
I thought the characterization of Hillary and the two detectives in the story was pretty well done.
The bad: the character of Bruno Frye is a bit of a mess, and this is where the good characterization ends.
In pretty much all of his novels, the villains fall short of the mark.
On balance, there was more good than bad.
The first time I read this book I was about 8 or 9 years old. This is the first time in a long time that I have read it. It was just as amazing this time, if not more so, than the first time. It kept me on the edge of my seat the whole time. When he was describing the roaches in the cellar it was as if I could feel them crawling on me. I absolutely adore this book!
