https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6512154-zeitoun
Or for being too pomo for his own good (an argument that really only applies to A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius, which was his first book, and which I maintain was actually a meditation on self-consciousness, and a pretty insightful one)!
So Dave Eggers stumbled into this way to actually do some good in the world: he writes these novelly, semi-first-person not-really-journalistic nonfiction books about fucked up shit that happens in the world, and then uses his specific kind of fame to go on NPR and talk about them, and to get his built in NPR-listenin audience to learn about them.
Abdul - the hero of this story - as most now know, was arrested for attempted first degree murder - for beating his wife Kathy with a tire iron and for soliciting her murder for $20K...he is in jail at present for felony stalking charges.
I could tell you how horribly the Zeitouns treated the hard working African American crew who sanded, scraped, and caulked my house (and were never paid), but the best story is about a lone worker named Rene that they brought in to replace the four black gents.
Did you know that the hero of the story is a convicted felon, and that he tried to pay someone to kill his wife Kathy?
I enjoyed the book and hadn't realized how many horrible things happened in New Orleans besides the actual impact of the hurricane.
Based on some reality, the story helps a non-Louisiana native understand the true impacts of the hurricane, not only on the land but on the people.The imagery and language were strong, and the characterizations were very intricate.
Since reading the books, I've spent time in Louisiana (both rural and New Orleans) and hear so many different stories of what actually happened.I may re-read this one in preparation for the next American Crime Story TV anthology.
And this book will help me prepare and remember as much as I can before diving in.
What strikes me as I read several of the Goodreads reviews that follow is the degree of dissatisfaction expressed by readers for Eggers's approach to this book and his style.
Perhaps I am the last registered Democrat who has not read any Eggers until Zeitoun, but at the very least I went into this book with zero expectations of the story I would find or of the writer who assembled it.
Now that the reading is over, I have little sense of Eggers's voice, which is one precise reason why I rate this so highly- the story is not his, it is that of the Zeitoun's.
This review has been revised and extended. It can now be seen at Expendable Mudge Muses Aloud.
While I got an idea of who the Zeitouns were, I never really felt drawn into the book itself.
Which, the storm itself isn't where the drama comes from here.
The storm simply happens, and the aftermath propels the story forward.
Which isn't a criticism, just a summary.
And then this isn't even what drives the real drama.
To avoid spoilers, I'll just say something happens to Zeitoun, and it reveals what a mess Katrina was from a governmental/bureaucratic standpoint; that's, I think, the point of the book, and it does hit pretty hard.
I think I just wanted stronger writing throughout.
What it is: a work of great investigative journalism, told through the eyes of a family that lived it, confirmed with secondary sources.This is the Eggers we all want, I think: one who can weave real-world events and the social injustices they expose into compelling personal narrative that motivates others (readers) to action.
Still, it's few and far between the books that keep me up all night, and leave me shaking with anger, sad and mobilized at the same time.
I know it was a horrible, deplorable event but felt that Brian Williams stayed on that story a bit too long, or too often, for its own good.
What I didn't know, what I don't think Brian Williams told us, was the whole story of what the government was doing to some survivors.So it was finally time for me to relive Katrina through the eyes of Abdul Zeitoun and his wife.
When his wife and children evacuated, he stayed to keep his eye on their house, business, and properties.
Così il progetto di realizzarne uno, che raccontasse delle vicissitudini della famiglia durante l’uragano Katrina, naufragano a causa dell’arresto di Abdulrahman Zeitoun nel 2012, accusato di aver progettato l’omicidio della moglie Kathy, dalla quale, nel frattempo, si era separato.Quell'uomo era vero, dice la moglie.
“What is building, and rebuilding and rebuilding again, but an act of faith?” ― Dave Eggers, ZeitounThere is something bold and yet quiet about 'Zeitoun' the book and Zeitoun the man.
There is also something bold about Dave Eggers.
But after reading 'A Hologram for the King' I've started recognizing it for what it is -- David Eggers is simply enthusiastic, ebullient about ideas and people.
He wants Zeitoun's story written across the sky.
The brilliance (or genius) of David Eggers is his ability to follow up on these quirky little ideas.
And, 'Zeitoun' the book was brilliant.
"The artist doesn't matter." So say I in my GoodReads profile.
And, as with all books I love, I searched for online reviews and varying opinions, and stumbled upon the real-life murder charges brought against Zeitoun this past fall:http://www.salon.com/2012/12/09/did_d...Does it matter?
If the recent charges against Zeitoun are true, I am furious for having been so drawn to someone capable of such cruelty.
So politically, the horrors he endured remain horrors despite whatever crimes he may have committed.But artistically?
Can Zeitoun the storybook character ever serve the same purpose, or is he too close to home?
Rave review in the New York Times.I'm on Amtrak today, on the first of a three-day trip to New Orleans.
I checked five books out of the library just before leaving, then pondered and left two of them at home.
Maybe I should have brought more than three books?
(I also listened to many hours of podcasts when I decided the scenery was nice enough that I didn't want to be reading — it turns out train trips are a great way of catching up on media backlogs).The book was a powerful reminder of how screwed up the U.S. legal system can be when checks and balances are removed.Incredible story.­
However, - perhaps it is the cynic or skeptic in me - the image that Eggers paints of Zeitoun and his family is very idyllic; it's even close to hagiographic.Finally, a bit of a wry remark: during his misery, Zeitoun has to think several times about his home country of Syria, where a large part of his family has remained, and Eggers paints a picture of the poor, yet happy existence there.
Seen from the perspective of today, 2018, after 5 years of Syrian civil war, shouldn’t we nuance the misery in New Orleans and the criticism on American society a bit?
In the chaos that is post-Katrina New Orleans, he's held in a make-shift jail for weeks, never being told why he was arrested, never allowed a phone call, and never given access to a lawyer.
On the news we heard plenty about the lawless, roving gangs terrorizing the city after the storm.
What we didn't hear is that some of those gangs were under the authority of our own government.This book should be required reading for anyone interested how a lack of leadership can have far-reaching consequences.

The couple was divorced earlier this year.Mr. Eggers’s book chronicles Mr. Zeitoun’s wrongful arrest following Hurricane Katrina, when he was allegedly mistaken for a terrorist and detained at Elayn Hunt Correctional Center for over 20 days without ever standing trial.We have reached out to McSweeney’s, the publisher of Zeitoun, for comment and as of writing this have not heard back.Original review (posted June 15, 2011):This book is a combination hagiography of Abdulrahman Zeitoun and heavy handed agenda against President George W.
The great tragedy of Zeitoun is that he suffered for doing what all of us would hope to do in similar circumstances--the best we can in times of crisis to help our neighbors.
The sheer hell that Zeitoun, his family, and the countless, nameless people who suffered during the aftermath of Katrina went through is a modern parable we should all heed.
Despite the subsequent governmental neglect and abuse of the city and its citizens, human decency somehow still prevails despite horrific circumstances.
And hopefully it will remind people that the tragedy of the Katrina aftermath continues to this day.
Aaaaaaaarghhh!! I just can't take Dave Eggers. He has authorial ADD. Stay focused already, dude! Beats me why he's considered such a great writer. Oh well, no accounting for individual tastes, I guess.
Zeitoun's project - the notion that broad insight can be extracted via narratives drawn from samples with an N of 1 - is pretty much exactly the opposite of what I think you'd want to do if the goal was to introduce new college fresh-persons to a University intellectual community and the life of the mind.Have them read the Times reporting on the Katrina hospitals and Pro Publica's coverage of the Danziger bridge shootings.
But as recent events in the Zeitoun universe illustrate in almost absurd fashion, don't presume that the essence of a story as complicated as Katrina can be encapsulated in any one person's experience.
He's been arrested multiple times since the book's publication for choking his now ex-wife and beating her with a tire iron, for ordering a hit on her and his stepson, and for continuous violations of restraining orders that have lead to a felony stalking charge.
I thought this as well, until reading that his wife testified in court that he'd been beating her for their entire marriage, a decade before Katrina ever happened.
When there were scenes of Zeitoun caring for abandoned dogs, all I could think of was him beating his wife in public with a tire iron.
Or any other points, for that matter: the Penguin was the only thing that existed in the world at that point in time.
Helped by the fact that, although I knew it was non-fiction, I didn’t know the story at all, and so the electrifying suspense of Zeitoun’s odyssey, which could very well have ended with a trip up to the Pearly Gates, had me spellbound.More so than his personal ordeal, though, which was truly horrific, I was gobsmacked at what can only be described as the ‘failed state’ tactics of the various US government agencies in dealing with the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans.
As a writer, Dave Eggers has the ability to find the small story within the larger one, as exemplified by his "Voice of Witness" series, out of which arose this book.
But no one else could have written this book -- his extraordinary skill as a writer coupled with his deep seated humanity and puckish humor have woven a story of courage and loyalty and love far beyond any other I've read, save for his own "What is the What," my favorite book of 2006.
I don't say this often, but everyone should read this book.Dave Eggers is unique.
In August 2005 as Hurricane Katrina heads for New Orleans, Kathy flees the city with their four young children, eventually winding up with friends in Phoenix.
After the storm he paddles around the city in his canoe, helping numerous elderly neighbors escape, checking on the properties of various friends and clients, and caring for neighborhood pets that have been left behind.
There is a working phone in one of the properties he owns, and Zeitoun faithfully calls Kathy each day at noon.
The city has completely shut down; Kathy cannot call the police or fire department or FEMA or the National Guard for help.
A long time ago I had decided not to ever read anything by Dave Eggers.
I don't remember them.Anyway, about a month ago, a friend was reading Zeitoun and finished it in about a day, then lent it to another friend who finished it in about the same time.
I put it in a pile of books to be read later.That 'later' was yesterday.
it's better that you just read the book.
The book as a whole--its before, during, and after of events described--perfectly encapsulates my love/hate relationship with this country.I urge you to read this (and especially if you would never normally read Dave Eggers).
Meeting the Zeitoun family, sharing in their daily activities, caring about them as individuals and as symbols for struggling Muslims in post-9/11 America, made me re-evaluate my misgivings about Eggers and I fell hook, line and sinker for this harrowing and heroic tale of courage, community and kinship.I felt as though I was drowing myself as the family reluctantly separated on the day before the hurricane hit.
I felt reassured that Zeitoun and his family had survived the worst and were once again thriving in a rebuilt New Orleans with their strong kindred bonds to sustain them.
Zeitoun is a moving and eye-opening journalistic account of a much-loved and respected Syrian-born small business owner and resident of New Orleans in the days before, during, and after Hurricane Katrina.
Eggers worked closely with Abdulrahman Zeitoun (known simply as "Zeitoun") and his American wife Kathy to faithfully represent Zeitoun's experiences when he remained in New Orleans to supervise his residential properties and business sites following the hurricane.
The opening passage describing the custom of night-time fishing for sardines in Jableh, a small Syrian coastal fishing town, is stunning.
This is the eye-opening part of the account that was seldomly portrayed in the media.
Character-driven narrative non-fiction.
How character's revealed under pressure.
Extreme Bush-Era breakdown of rights we take for granted in the U.S -- there was some disbelief reading this, thinking it's like Camus's The Plague or Saramago's Blindness or Cormac's The Road, but it happpened in 2005, in the good ol' U.S.A, just a few years ago, in a city I visited in 2004 sometime .
The writing seemed at first restrained, kept to a lower gear, aiming for maximum accessibility, but it really worked when the winds pick up.
It's effortlessly spare and transparent, lets you see through the text to scenes so you can read in "real-time" as actions unfold.
The second disaster is the US Security State of Paranoid Repression.b) That second disaster makes the True Story Behind The Story irrelevant.
Because the US Security State of Paranoid Repression is illegitimate.
Not even the worst rapist murderer terrorist younameit.c) I thought it was about the Katrina disaster so I was going to write about my own experience with natural disaster (a tornado when I was 12) and the kind of community that responded.
But,d) It is actually about the same Security State which right now we (but not me, I mean many folks) think is going to save us from Rump.
Not by the story - the characters, primarly the eponymous name character, Abdulrahman Zeitoun, are nuanced, courageous individuals who captura the at once deeply personal and universal nature of Katrina and its aftermath.
In the NY Times review of this book, Timothy Egan praised the author's "most restratined of voices;" for me, this is the very element that does not work in such an emotional tale where empathy should flow so naturally.
On balance, Eggers achieves the restraint that he seems to have aimed for but at too great a cost to the emotional impact of the book.
I like reading them.The others were Heartbreaking Work and What is the What, and all of them have been about things that are true.Zeitoun is fuckin' horrifying.
It's as powerful an attack on what can go wrong in a country you thought had its shit together as I've seen, and - I want to really emphasize this - it's absolutely true.
Eggers checked his sources; there aren't any events in this book that didn't take place.But Zeitoun the character turns out not to be Zeitoun now.
Zeitoun's experience post-Katrina may have been so traumatic that it tilted him.
