https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99395.The_Nazi_Seizure_of_Power
It strikes me, although Allen didn't mention this, that the Nazis had prepared for these activities by a decade of political campaigning, identifying and reaching out to target voters who they later ruthlessly subjugated, all the while building an organization that covered every part of every city and town in Germany.
*** a great number of Nazis in Northeim had become dependent on Ernst Girmann and still more were afraid of him***INITIAL COMMENTS ...This is a one-of-a-kind detailed look at how the Nazis sought to accomplish their goals across every part of Germany, dealing with questions like ...
For those who have read the panoramic accounts of how the Third Reich came about yet remain non-plussed as to how the mechanics of tyranny actually operate, William Sheridan Allen forensically deconstructs the day-by-day quasi-legal and carefully orchestrated encroachment on every aspect of society that manouevred the Nazis into power. The very repetitiveness of his amassed details provide an inkling of how the combined onslaught of propaganda and fear worked to overwhelm all opposition.
The analysis involves consideration of political activities, rallies, newspapers and government documents from the period, and demonstrates the tactics attempted by the NSDAP and their enemies.What probably makes the book so popular, however, is the level of detail Allen is able to use, giving us portraits of colorful characters within this small town and the roles they played during the Machtergreifung.
This has not really happened, however, and Allen's book remains a fairly unique document, nevertheless very interesting and useful on its own.
Prima di chi?Il testo, a parere di Gallino, indica che in ogni passo che una società compie deve essere chiara la doppia direzione in cui può essere condotta la civiltà quando si fanno delle scelte piuttosto che altre: limitazione dei diritti civili di alcuni in nome della sicurezza di tutti fino alla scoperta di un nuovo nemico a cui limitare le libertà.[Si deve tenere presente la capacità camaleontica dei fascismi del XX secolo che non hanno mai avuto forme "pure" di discorso, sempre aperti a rappresentare le trasformazioni.
Since Ango-European powers had for so long dominated the globe, I also enrolled in a course on modern European history taught by Terry Parsinnen, who had been a classmate of my last European history teacher in high school, Timothy Little.Terry was very nice to me during what happened to be his last year at Grinnell.
He employed Palmer and Coulsen as his primary text, but had us read a substantial amount about the second world war, including Allen's The Nazi Seizure of Power.Allen's book is good, basic historical research, specifically about Northeim, Germany and how the Socialists and Communists there failed in preventing the Nazi takeover.
He concludes that Northeim Nazis “knew exactly what needed to be done to effect the transfer of power to themselves in the spring of 1933, and they did it without more than generalized directives from above.” (295) Exercising considerable organizational acumen, Nazis appeared purposeful and vigourous to the town’s middle classes, the “burghers,” who believed that the Nazi platform offered tangible and intangible solutions to the economic and social problems which disrupted town life during the Weimar years.
The Social Democratic Party (SPD) (non-Marxist & non revolutionary) exercised considerable influence over the town’s labourers, while the middle classes were governed by an ethos of nationalism, militarism, and, not surprisingly, commitment to economic security.
This is all about the Nazi takeover from the local level. National politics, Hitler, and the military only play into the narrative (and it IS a great narrative) only so much as they impacted Thalburg (or Nordheim depending on your version of the book).That makes it rather identifiable and eerie. For instance, one of the first things the Nazis in this town took over was the school board. You can imagine this sort of thing happening in your town, with your local newspapers, and your local street names. It's an uncommon look at Nazi Germany.
Un dettagliatissimo saggio su come una piccola citta' della Bassa Sassonia si trasforma, lentamente ed in maniera indolore (per il momento), in una cittadina completamete in mano alla follia nazista.Il libro e' scritto in maniera molto chiara e si basa ovviamenti su giornali e documenti dell'epoca, ho dato solo tre stelle perche' e', secondo me, poco approfondita la parte "umana", e cioe' sentimenti, simpatie e antipatie sono trattate in maniera abbastanza distaccata.Ma nel complesso, un ottimo saggio "tecnico".
It is, to be clear, an easier read now that I'm not trying to constantly figure out where this is.It's still worth reading, to see how a sane, moral nation can go insane with hatred.ORIGINAL:This is an engaging, lively book that would nearly stand alone as a novel, as it is the fascinating story of how a town in central Germany changed from a somewhat amiable, slightly shabby and squabbly old-timey village to a Nazi stronghold.
The town is somewhat fictionalized, as the author published this book back in the 60s, and wanted to protect the names and livelihoods of the peopled he interviewed for the book.
This book was one of the first that looked beyond the simplistic argument that Germans were pathologically evil and instead described a process that many people could understand.
When people ask: "Why should anyone care about humanities?" this book serves as a good answer.
By looking at the history of a small German town and its process of Nazification, we can learn volumes about human interaction and group dynamics.
As in Browning's book "Ordinary Men", this book explains something horrid in ways we can understand.
As much as I hate to admit it, I can see myself in the people in the book.
A closely-reasoned and deeply-researched piece that uses the experience of a single small Saxon town to ask the Big German Question of the mid-20th century: How Did It Happen? The answer of course is...not all at once, but slowly, barely perceptibly, and in ways far more ordinary and legalistic than we'd like to think possible. Contra Mr. Burke, it's not that good men do nothing and so evil wins, it's that the good men can't find a clear place to take a stand until it's too late. A book well worth reading and considering.
Analyze the greater through examination of the lesser. Tough times in interwar Weimar Germany -- hyperinflation, unemployment, lack of goods and foodstuffs, boredom. How did the Nazis come to power? Allen relates the political and social history of a small town in an attempt to find out.
I read this for a college class back in the day. I have read it now three times, and I find myself frequently going back to it for source material. It really make you think about the way mankind can be influenced and moved to do and support things that are nothing less than barbaric.
"L'estremismo di massa, l'intolleranza, il desiderio disperato di un cambiamento radicale - tutti fattori che rendono impossibile una stabile democrazia - sono difficili da suscitare. Quando nella comunità c'è sicurezza, gli agitatori politici si ritrovano a declamare in sale quasi vuote: è necessaria una paura ossessiva, l'improvvisa coscienza di pericoli fino a quel momento non sospettati, per riempire le sale di ascoltatori che vedano nell'agitatore colui che li salverà. " (p. 24)
Dati, dati, dati e ancora dati elettorali per la prima metà.Fortunatamente nella seconda metà ci sono un po più di fatti, mi aspettavo sinceramente di meglio.
Un libro necessario.Tutto qui.
More microhistory, please! This sort of work is just exceptionally helpful in getting at the underlying causes of broad historical phenomena. It can be dry, but you can develop a level of expertise in covering a single place that far exceeds what you can do in looking at larger geographic scopes.
I was probably one of the rare students who actually read this whole book (okay, I admit I skipped a few paragraphs but omg its long) in my Europe of the World Wars class last semester.
In essence, this book details one town to demonstrate the overall strategy Hitler and the Nazis used to gain power of Germany after WWI.
After you read this you will know, understand, and be able to woo a group of friends about how a party like the Nazis were able to rise to power and control its citizens in a time of desperation.
I read "The Nazi Seizure of Power" for a university history course this semester.
The last two pages of each chapter really wrapped up each chapter -- and that brief summary was, in some cases, more enlightening than the bulk of the chapter itself.Still -- I'm a history major and I've read some TRULY DRY WORK -- this isn't nearly as bad as it could be.
We don't see the violent anti-Semitism that went hand in hand with the Nazi rise to power, but Allen DOES show the lack of resistance to Nazism in Germany.
this was a wholly fascinating read and chilling in how possible and explicable the rise of the nazis in northeim was.
this book is a thorough account of one specific town in germany so it should not really be read as an overall view of the macro politics of the rise of the nazis.
it's a fantastic account of the socio-economic underpinnings of nazi ideology and the macro picture of their rise to power.
if you are familiar with the specifics of the rise of the nazis then go ahead and read this book.
I visited the town he talks about - Northeim - and walked through the cemetery. I thought about all the people there with birthdates in the 1890s and early 1900s. They were veterans of the great war. Democracy collapsed and totalitarianism came in on their watch. The next generation - born in the 1910s and 20s - did the killing and dying. Allen concludes that the middle class lost hope in democracy and feared the socialists more than they loved liberty. He tells the story well, skipping over the last ten
Becomes a bit of a slog as it goes on - lots of step-by-step "this person did this, and then this, and then this, and then this" that gets a bit monotonous. But overall, a really thought-provoking and up-close look at the conditions that led to and followed from the Nazi rise to power.
A enlightening look at how the Nazi machine was able to slowly indocrinate itself among the people in slow, insidious steps.
Incredibly insightful, although at times I wish Allen had broadened his scope to allow the reader some perspective of larger trends. Highly recommended though.
The book is timely in light of the events of the last decade.

Recensione che si riferisce all'edizione Einaudi 1994.Ammetto di aver letto solo l'introduzione. Anzi, per essere precisi, mi son fermata a pagina VIII perché.... perché il font è troppo piccolo!!! Il testo sembra essere un 8 o un 9. Ma l'introduzione è ancora più piccola.Non son orba, ma non si può leggere in queste condizioni.
A great micro-history about how a single German town experienced the Nazi takeover.
If you aren't metalhead, maybe not...THey are an Industrial band from Germany...some time ago I've read something about them:"In Guadalajara a guy came in with a T-shirt with a swastika.
He probably thought it was a symbol of Germany folklore.
This guy was about 25 years, and could not seem more Indians: blacks long hair, a large aquiline nose, and was wearing a T-shirt with a swastika.
They were just people far away from Germany and who had thought that this had something to do with German history and that the group would have appreciated as a sign of respect!
While the book is supposed to emphasise the "seizure of power", I would have liked to see more pages on the actual Nazi occupation of the town, rather than the larger portion of the book which was devoted to the time leading up to the take over.Certainly, the book does explain that Germans were not fanatical anti-Semites, who were all out to get their Jewish compatriots.
In this regard, Allen does do a good job of clarifying this Hollywood misconception, which seems to be so prevalent in American society.Nevertheless, while some others claim not to have noticed, I personally did see some hinting of Allen's socialist sympathies, which have no place in a supposedly unbiased history book.
If you can tolerate hints of his socialist tendencies, give this book a try!
