https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1105093.Braveheart
Braveheart is a 1995 American epic war film directed by Mel Gibson, who stars as William Wallace, a late 13th-century Scottish warrior who led the Scots in the First War of Scottish Independence against King Edward I of England.
Once he loses another of his loved ones, William Wallace begins his long quest to make Scotland free once and for all, along with the assistance of Robert the Bruce...عنوانها: دلاور؛ قهرمان دلیر؛ نویسنده: رندال والاس؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه نوامبر سال 2001 میلادیعنوان: دلاور؛ نویسنده: رندال والاس؛ مترجم: کامران بهمنی؛ تهران، واژه، 1383؛ در 70 ص، مصور، چاپ دوم 1386؛، دوزبانه، فارسی و انگلیسی؛ شابک: 9789645607164؛ موضوع: داستانهای و فیلمنامه های نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 ماین داستان با عنوان: قهرمان دلیر، با ترجمه بانو: پروانه موسوی، نیز چاپ شده استشجاع‌ دل یا دلاور «بریوهارت»: فیلم حماسی درام آمریکایی، به کارگردانی، و بازیگری: مل گیبسون، محصول سال 1995 میلادی، از کمپانیهای آمریکایی: «پارامونت پیکچرز»، و «فاکس قرن بیستم» است.
Not every man really lives" Braveheart  is about the myth of a man named William Wallace, who fights for Scotland's freedom against England in the late 1200s.
No, I blame the movie that would play in my head while reading this 277 page novel.
(view spoiler)[So legend goes-based off Scotland A Concise History- William Wallace gets into a fight against the English in Lanark.
If I read this book first I don't think I would scream my battle cry, with my face painted blue and wearing my kilt.
I thought the movie and book were very similar.
The best we people can understand at all what was going on and what England did to a people who just wanted to live their lives and raise their children...That is so sad ..England never took responsibility for the carnage they put upon the people of Scotland..A shame that England can never come out from!! England can only feel shame!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
I very much liked the movie Braveheart. The same man who wrote the movie also wrote this book and they are almost identical, with a few relatively minor exceptions. Just as I liked the movie, I liked the book a lot. I've heard that the history is not terribly accurate here and there are clearly some speculative things. But as a heroic tale it certainly worked. At least for me.
I've loved the movie ever since I saw it for the first time.
That time I also had my first crush on actor, and since that I've been a huge Mel Gibson -fan.
So it's really no wonder, that I wanted to read this book at some point of my life.I liked the story very much.
I could see it clearly in front of me; every moment of William Wallace's epic story.
Yeah right.But the story was so strong and full of life, that you'd almost believe that all this really happened.
This book is one of my favorites from now on.
EXCELLENT--BUY IT!!**
They fought like Scotsmen."I love the story and legend of William Wallace.
It was just like the movie, with some added facts and events, which was amazing.
If I hadn't watched the movie dozens of times before I read this book, then I probably would have loved it.
Overall, the story was great, but I would have preferred to watch the movie.
I knew exactly what was going to be said and how people would respond to it.
However, if you had never seen the movie and are interested in the story of William Wallace, then you definitely should pick up this book.
Lo so che è da "femminucce", ma tutte le volte che leggo il libro o mi capita di rivedere il film, mi metto a singhiozzare. Mi commuove tantissimo questa storia.
It had it's merits as a fun bit of fiction but............Ever watch a movie or read a book and keep hearing a voice that says,"that's not the way it happened?" You have? Good. 'Nuff said.
I read this when I was 13 as a strategy for getting my parents to let me watch the movie. I figured I could argue that since I'd read the book, then I knew all gruesome details that would be onscreen and thus not be "warped". That argument worked, and I did get to watch it. I don't remember a whole lot about this book other than I did love reading it despite my ulterior motives. It's grossly historically inaccurate (as is the film), but definitely an invigorating read.
Not a bad read about an extremely inspiring man. The story of the Scottish fight for freedom and the picture we get here of a patriot is a wonderful story. The history is a little shaky, but remember what the newspaper man in The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence said: "When the legend becomes fact, print the legend."
If you pick up this book, don't plan on doing anything else until you've finished it. I think it's all time, the best book i've ever read. Oh and also plan on making a trip to the local video rental to get a copy of the movie. Even if you've already seen it.
The story forms her storyline from here.The first five chapters are written incredibly catchy.
Randall Wallace knows exactly dose the humor, so the story begins realistic.
That leaves the reader sympathize with the early life of William Wallace.The book then moves on to the wedding of new King of England.
I felt that I sympathized with the main characters, who also unwise be pleasant and described in detail.This book is one of my favorites, because everything comes together.
This book is good, because it makes even a war story incredibly strong.
It takes insane courage to be able to gain freedom and fight so hard because of that.
If I was in that same boat I would not be able to do that, I mean I would try, but it probably wouldn't turn out that great I would direct this book to anybody that likes or enjoys to read old history war books, because in my very opinion this is probably the best one ever made.
Easy to read. Not too long. I would recommend this generally to anyone who enjoys reading.According to my research, and contradictory to popular opinion, this is pretty accurate. The author took some liberaties with the plot and filled in some holes that, honestly, can never be factually filled, but I think he did a good job. There is nothing fantastical about it, he kept it realistic, and tried his best to stick to the legends and stories that we do have.
I was disappointed. In short, the movie is far better than the book. I never thought I'd say that.Of course, that's probably because this book came AFTER the movie.There is a book the movie is based on, called The Scottish Chiefs. It's on my to-read list.
در صورت تمایل، جهت مشخصات فیلمی که بر اساس این کتاب ساخته شده است؛ میتوانید از لینک زیر استفاده بفرماییدhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0112573
در صورت تمایل، جهت مشخصات فیلمی که بر اساس این کتاب ساخته شده‌ است؛ می‌توانید از لینک زیر استفاده بفرماییدhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0112573
In retribution, Wallace leads his clan to slaughter the English garrison in his hometown and send the occupying garrison at Lanark back to England.Longshanks orders his son Prince Edward to stop Wallace by any means necessary.
Wallace leads his army to victory at the Battle of Stirling Bridge and then destroys the city of York, killing Longshanks' nephew and sending his severed head to the king.
Moments before being decapitated, Wallace sees a vision of Murron in the crowd, smiling at him.In 1314, Robert, now Scotland's king, leads a Scottish army before a ceremonial line of English troops on the fields of Bannockburn, where he is to formally accept English rule.
I read this book long before the movie came out, and glad for it. Mel Gibson did okay portraying the main character, but Mel isn't the man I envisioned. I saw a man much scruffier, larger in build and with hands tougher than a cast-iron skillet. However, Randall Wallace brings this story to life in your mind while reading, much like a movie, you see, smell, hear, fear, and run with these warriors. A great read, and one that remains on my bookshelves as a classic timepiece.
Read in 1996
4.5 I really loved the story. Read it!! It is a story everyone should read and know.
Had a couple good sections, but it became a little too strident, preachy, and religious for me. If you are religious you may enjoy this.
it was cool
I wish that I had read the book first because I think that I would have enjoyed the movie a LOT more.
It's not very long, the dialogue isn't heavily accented and hard to read (like Outlander), and the romance between William and Murron and William and the Princess of Wales is a little bit more in depth.
The screenplay writers must have had an easy time writing the script for the movie, because the dialogue is pretty much word for word from book to the movie.
As far as movie adaptations go this was pretty good.
Great movie Braveheart and just as good as a book.
My guess over this adaptation is that it was based on a early draft of Randall Wallace's script.
Little quirks such as Hamish punching William as a form of affection, the rearrangement of scenes, additional scenes that were probably never filmed or remain on the deleted scenes of a DVD/Blu-Ray release.The story itself is based on historical fact although is grossly inaccurate but I recall from the making of Braveheart from Randall Wallace that the stories of William Wallace were exaggerated even in his time, the tales of Blind Harry which include the 7ft tall, lightning-bolts from his arse bit.
Overlook these details and you get a pretty good story of Romance and Heroism and that is not fiction.Wonderful!
Man-Scottish-Blitish- family-fight-free-princessDiscussion question.1.This main character fight to free his country from British, and finally he died.
Because I don't have brave heart like him, I don't want to die because of fight.2.Scottish fought with using only sword.
Because to use clever idea is important to win!This story is very good!!
The main character keep fighting for his country!
He lost his family and lover which are his important people because of fight.
He is very brave and clever, very good person but he was  poor person.
He died because of fight, but his blood keep alive as new prince because of good and clever princess!
This book was written by a direct descendant of William Wallace.
In the forward, Wallace tells us that not much is known about the Scottish hero and basically tells us that he filled in the blanks with his own imagination.The reason I gave this book any stars at all, is because I am intrigued with that time period in history.
The reason I deducted four stars was due to the ridiculous amount of typos in my e-book.
In some instances, the mistakes were so bad that the author's meaning was completely obliterated!I can't believe I kept reading this book!Don't bother!
Probably the only movie that is exactly the same as the book. While it's an awesome love story and stale of courage, heroics and freedom it is totally unnecessary to read if you've seen the movie 15-20 times like I have. The worst part about it was I couldn't get Mel Gibson out of my mind the whole time. That and the fact that all I can think about when I envision the year of our Lord 1300 is the dank smells of dirty arm pits and naughty parts.
I read this before I saw the movie. I loved it mostly because it speaks of patriotic heroism. The action was so intense at times that I felt my heart pounding. The romance side of it balanced the grueling violence enough to bring tears in my eyes amid the battles and suffering. Although true Scots don't like its inaccurate historical content, I very much enjoyed it as it gave me a glimpse into the past days of Scottish highlanders.
I loved the movie and so when I saw this book I had to buy it. Not the greatest writing, but the story was just like the movie. I could picture Mel Gibson in my head as I read. Not sure that either the book or the movie is historically accurate, but the story is spellbinding. English oppressors, Scottish rebels with a charismatic leader beating back the more numerous English in most every battle, fighting for freedom.I think I'll watch the movie again.
