https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10775.The_Garden_of_Eden
So that's what he writes about and honestly, I don't need to know what kind of drink you had, because buddy, you drink inconsequentially ALL the time.The posthumously released The Garden of Eden reads like a repeat.
He worked on it about 20 years later, but it feels so very much like The Sun Also Rises that one wonders why Hemingway would write the same novel over again and try to pass it off as something new.
At one point the character talks about writing "in dad's style." It's like Gregory giving the reader a cheeky wink-wink.
this is one of hemingway's most fascinating character studies, and like all his heroines in all of his books, i sort of fell in love with her.
how i feel about this book is complicated and not for the faint of heart -- i love it, yes.
i had this idea in my head of this summer on the mediterranean when i was like, 14, and then to read this book ...
i like the previous reviewer's (didn't catch your name, sorry!) idea of reading it once a summer.hemingway is much more delicate than he gets credit for, and sometimes i think he understands women better than most "sensitive" men ...
I like to see you in the morning all new and strange. If lines like that one were sprinkled throughout this novel, this could have been poetry. Sometimes after reading books heavy in subject or content, I turn to books with a seemingly facile flow. Hemingway always manages to gift the kind of terseness one expects from his stylistic ease. Even then, I'm often perplexed after reading because although some pages leave me in awe, I still find some chunks wanting. Yet I've been convinced enough to
They settle in a house on the gorgeous French Riviera, where David writes in the mornings while Catherine tries to figure out herself - like, does she want to become "a boy?" She heads to town while he writes and each time she returns, her hair is cropped shorter.
As she undergoes metamorphosis, their sexual interactions get more peculiar, but Hemingway, the genius of literary subtlety, is graceful with this, excluding certain words yet still giving just the right hints so one imagines what Catherine is doing to David.
His latest novel. Despite its unfinished form, probably one of its best. The sensuality and the languor that emerges as well as the ambiguity of the characters in this triangular relationship are remarkable. And as always the dialogues and the silences of Hemingway. A masterpiece without question.
I can understand why many readers, especially Hemingway fans, would find this book (as well as Islands in the Stream, for that matter) to be a pointless slog through the author's psyche.
I know this is the cheeziest line of all time (but here goes): this book transports me, and when I read it, I feel like I am a participant in a world that Hemingway has created.
Hemingway has me completely convinced that happiness is a beach and plenty of alcohol.
But flaws outweigh brilliance here: the thing feels like it was written through a mist of fear and anger (towards women, fathers, homosexuality, any sexuality that is complicated at all), cobwebs that never got the chance to be swept away.
That is exactly how it feels to read this book.
And just like I can’t stop loving my racist little grandmother, the very fact that Garden of Eden is terrible makes me sort of dig it.
But, of course, do not read Garden of Eden.
Published after Hemingway's death, The Garden of Eden stands as his last novel, and it shows his growth and struggle as a writer well.
It includes topics that indicate Hemingway's willingness to write about eschewing society's norms: homosexual relationships, polygamy, androgyny, and more.
While he plays around with gender and sexuality in The Garden of Eden, his writing still has an unshakable undercurrent of misogyny and homophobia.
I despise how Hemingway makes Catherine crazy in the face of her desires - it shows his sexism - but I appreciate that he at least tried to grapple with his complex feelings toward empowered women, gay relationships, etc.
Catherine is trying to become like David.
If he's stood up at some point to Catherine's wishes, would the story have changed?
David and Catherine are newlyweds (in Paradise).
They bring another woman into the marriage whom Catherine experiences first, taking a metaphorical bite of an apple.
Then, at the insistence of Catherine, David also experiences the new woman, thereby taking his metaphorical bite of the apple.
Only in the story of David & Catharine, it's Catharine who brings the new woman in; not David.
In real life it would most likely have been Hemingway; not his current wife.That's just scratching the surface of this little book.
I read this book for a college course and was dreading it.
I thought - here we go - another book with manly hunter Hemingway about war and bullfighting and all things manly.
This book turned me around on Hemingway and made me see the genius that he is.
The story is of five months in the lives of David Bourne, an American writer, and his wife, Catherine.
The story is basically about how they balance the triangle - and how the triangle falls apart.
On a side note, there is a sex scene in the beginning of this book where Catherine uses a bottle on David.

I'm guessing that I came at Hemingway in a completely different way from most readers in that this posthumously published book was one of the first things that I ever read by him. And it was sort of an "a-ha" moment; so *this* is what they mean by the clean and lean Hemingway style... I fell into this book effortlessly, read it quickly, and was very affected (and impressed)by it. I know it's considered one of his inferior works, but who cares. I loved it.
In this novel Hemingway plays the simple triangle of two bi-sexual women and a straight man for all it's worth.
In the last published novel of Hemingway's the lean, muscular dialogue still rings clear and honest and true.
Hemingway's last work ends on a note of powerful optimism -- luminous and hopeful that in the end paradise, once lost, can be re-gained on earth.
Hemingway wrote better short works but he ended his career as a novelist with a grace note, which seems to say that the "garden" is still there through grace, if one only possesses the will to reclaim it.
I love this book.
I know a lot of people tend to bash it because it was released posthumously, in edited form, but I think it's brilliant as-is.
The beginning of the book in particular, I like.
Hemingway's simple description of eating eggs for breakfast makes me feel as if I'm at the table as well.
It really paints a picture for me.
To me, it seems that Hemingway probably never released this book more because of the subject matter than because of any writing flaws.
In short, a tale of innocence lost, and the complexities a relationship goes through.
In an interview with The New York Times last December, a Scribners editor admitted to taking out a subplot in rough draft that he felt had not been integrated into the ''main body'' of the text, but this cut reduced the book's length by two-thirds.The amount of editing is a significant issue for it is at the heart of any critical evaluation of the work and of its place in the Hemingway canon.
Typically editors work in conjunction with their authors but in the case of The Garden of Eden Hemingway was long dead before the Scribner publishing house edited the surviving text.
This is a story about a writer, David Bourne, who is the typical Hemingway hero: sensitive but self-sacrificing, creative, satisfied by simple pleasures, and stoic.
David is honeymooning in the French Riviera at a secluded hotel outside of Cannes and spends his mornings writing.If this were all the book had to offer, the story would still be good, but knowing about Hemingway’s life makes this book extraordinary.
I saw the critical parts of David Bourne as Hemingway, which served to humanize the story.
And I loved the parts of the plot that chronicle Hemingway’s writing process.
It is difficult not to relate the words of the writer-protagonist of The Garden of Eden to the novel itself: This was the first writing he had finished since they were married.
(108)Hemingway worked on The Garden of Eden for fifteen years, starting in 1946, but never finished it.
After Hemingway shot himself with his favorite shotgun, his widow Mary carried the manuscript of The Garden of Eden in a shopping bag to the publishers at Scribner.
Either publish the man's work as he left it, or don't.
Had Hemingway managed to finish The Garden of Eden, it undoubtedly would have been a better book.
Não me recordo de alguma vez me ter deparado com uma personagem tão tresloucada quanto esta Catherine Bourne, mimada, arrogante e manipuladora, cujo nome do meio não pode ser outro que não desumana.
(Alright, alright, vou respirar fundo e contar até dez.)Esta é uma obra mais experimentalista e na qual Hemingway se propôs a explorar temáticas de carácter controverso (inclusive para os dias de hoje), tendo suscitado por isso opiniões divergentes entre os fãs do escritor e até dúvidas quanto à sua autenticidade, o que é natural e até certo ponto compreensível.
I'm going to try not to spoil my enjoyment of this book by writing an insightful kind of review. If you like it when Hemingway goes swimming, eats caviar and drinks whiskey and perrier, as opposed to the huntin', fightin', bull fightin' Hem, then this is just perfection. It is also a new, more interesting Hemingway. I loved the whole getting their hair cut bits, and the playful, surprising gender fluidity. When Hemingway is good, i just want to talk like Hemingway, walk like Hemingway, schmalk like Hem..
Not my favorite Hemingway, though I understand why it was recommended to me: there is a lot of drinking in it.
The couple gets up every morning, goes for a swim, wanders the countryside, and drinks in the cafes.
I did really enjoy the way Hemingway creates a sense of atmosphere.
David (the main male character) is a writer (and stand in for Hemingway) and I never really understood why he puts up with Catherine, let alone marries her.
I also enjoyed Hemingway's writing on the nature of an artist creating, but was frustrated by the David/Catherine relationship.
There are numerous book descriptions here at GR.
This says what you need to know: "A sensational bestseller when it appeared in 1986, The Garden of Eden is the last uncompleted novel of Ernest Hemingway, which he worked on intermittently from 1946 until his death in 1961.
It needs to be tightened up.
Hemingway usually delivers a strong clear novel without numerous sidetracks, but not here.There is subdued eroticism which is tantalizing in sections, but then this gets sidetracked into the power struggle in a couple's relationship, and on a higher level between men and women in general.
I could read this over and over and never get tired of it. It has been at the top of my favorite books list for a very long time. It's simple andIt's sparse and yet it speaks volumes about love and sex and men and women and our humanity and our imperfection. It's posthumous and even though it's different from everything else he wrote, it's still Papa.

Leading man David is successfully paring down his writing to its perfect, whole centre, while fracturing his already perfect marriage by adding another person to it.Great lines: "He had not known just how greatly he had been divided and separated because once he started to work he wrote from an inner core which could not be split nor even marked nor scratched.
He knew about this and it was his strength since all the rest of him could be riven."David makes constant reference to his father, a man who "ran his life disastrously," and he seems to look up to him for that.
I don't give many novels five star ratings but here it is deserved. This is a very heavy dose and caused an emotional reaction in myself that few books have. I was stunned while reading because of the issues and topics it deals with. Though written a long time ago, it's somehow modern and relevant. I know this story is loosely based on Hemingway's life and readers of a "A Moveable Feast" will quickly recognize and understand.
Before reading this novel, I always thought of Hemingway in a way a lot people probably do, enjoying his prose but not seeing beyond his macho persona.
This book motivated me to read more of Hemingway when I thought I had read quite enough, but I will return to that later.This novel follows a glamourous lifestyle of a writer David and his wife Catherine.
Supposedly, Hemingway criticized Tender Is the Night, so perhaps The Garden of Eden can be seen as an attempt to write his own version of that novel and best Fitzgerald?
Very soon into Hemingway’s Garden of Eden, I began getting this “sudden empty feeling in [my] gut”—precisely what David Bourne, the novel’s lead character, experiences when he encounters the reality of his dysfunctional marriage.
I pushed through the empty-gut feelings, let myself be carried by the interesting and vivid adjectives (ha!), and slugged on through to the novel’s final words.In the end, I can’t say that I put the book down wonderfully aware of what meaning I should extract from the Bournes’ troubled marriage.
I really wanted to see how Papa would have ended David, Catherine, and Marita's story.
A troubled marriage because Catherine Bourne is selfish, and jealous of her husband's writing - it take time away from her.
She wants to change David and she does even before she introduces and inserts Marita into their world."When you start to live outside yourself," Catherine said, "it's all dangerous.
Neither Catherine nor David truly understand the other and their world is shattered.
Would their world still crumble around themselves had Marita not entered  "into our world, your and my world that I made up; we made up I mean." Yes Catherine, most likely.
No, actually, I actively *stopped* reading it, only a few chapters in.I picked the book up thinking to read one of the classic masters of literature.
Kate, "The Girl" really seemed eager to explore the role reversal, and Hemingway didn't seem too shy about filling the reader in on how she planned to go about doing that.I'm sure the book makes some very interesting social commentary on gender roles, but I guess I'll never know.
Perhaps my judgment is hasty, because I only got three or four chapters into the book?

This book is complicated.
No, the book is fairly straight forward, in most ways.
How I feel about this book is complicated.
The story and characters were fascinating.
I only now thought that, as the story needed to marinate in my brain a little more than is usually required.I want to pick the book apart, talk about the (crazy) characters, but I am incapable of doing so without mentioing unforgivable spoilers.
I had issues with the characters.
I did not find them believable, I did not like a single one, and I found it difficult to care about their issues.
