https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/162570.Aesthetics_and_Politics
Hence, the Brecht / Lukacs debate was, in fact, a lens through which artists and intellectuals like Jameson made sense of their present historical moment.For that reason, in terms of a revolutionary aesthetics, the high-low culture debates of the 1950s and early '60s (in which Adorno figured prominently) seemed increasingly old hat and irrelevant.
In reviewing the different positions between Brecht and his critics in Adorno and Lukacs, Jameson makes the salient point that it is the former who has a far more clear idea of the role of aesthetics within politics.
lukacs has some points but he is very easy to misunderstand. lots of bs from adorno. the interludes were awesome. brecht was painfully clear-headed and sharp. benjamin knows how to ignore adorno. jameson's summary was awesome.
The chapters here are mostly essays or letters by the people mentioned on the title page, and you'll get more value out of this book if you've read their longer texts first, but it's not necessary; you can always read them afterwards if you want to better understand the context.My favourite things about this book: the peeks into Benjamin and Brecht's relationship as provided by Benjamin's wonderful diary entries; the absolutely savage but no less cultured way these men attack each other's theories (I wish MY critics addressed me the way Adorno does his friends--it's like getting stabbed with a stunningly elegant knife, which of course still hurts but at least you can admire its beauty); the remarkable ease with which aesthetic concepts are merged with political ones in their arguments.
If you think Marxism and art have nothing in common save propaganda posters, you're probably not going to want to read this book anyway. It's dense, and pitched as a battle amongst those modern Marxist aesthetes who shaped the debates on art as a political medium. Don't expect to find anything like consensus here - although Adorno seems to be the last word, it really is Benjamin whose thoughts seem most beautiful, lucid and free of intellectualism - in other words, most like an artist himself.
Compact introduction to the Frankfurt School on the relation of art to politics. If one must take a side, always choose the side of the artist creator over that of the critic interpreter.
Still surprisingly apt, even with so much time that has passed.
This is a well-constructed collection of letter and papers on the role of art and its interaction with political thought/action.
If you think art matters, but sometimes have a hard time articulating how or why, this book provides some nice theoretical exploration of just those issues.Special appreciation must be given to the written introductions to each exchange, establishing the stakes and particular points of disagreement.
Fredric Jameson's Afterword is an excellent summary, and also explains clearly why these discussions still matter.It's a forbidding title, but the books contents make it almost a page-turner.
Riiiight.Great, well you know if you're going to come up with theories about artistic engagement with the political sphere, how we can enact positive changes in the body politic through the mass accessibility of our art, well then maybe the insights of the ACTUAL ARTIST in the bunch might be a little more pressing than those of partisans or theoreticians.
If politics comes back out of the other side, so much the better, but let's not put the theoretical cart before the horse by condemming things people do who are in an entirely different arena.
شاید زیباترین و لذیذترین بخش آن -برایم- نامههای آدورنو به بنیامین و نقدهایش به لوکاچ و سارتر باشد. جزماندیشیی لوکاچ متاخر را میکوبد و سادهانگاریی روایت سارتر از تعهد ادبیات را آشکار میکند. اصرارش بر هنری خودمختار است و خلاقانه. از مقالات مصالحه تحت اجبار و تعهد او که در این کتاب آمده است.«_قطعههای شعرگونه، تصویر دیالکتیکیی حقیقت یک آرمانشهر است تا واقعیتی بیواسطه از آدمهایی سرگردان که در خیابان آواز میخوانند.»و البته آنچه بلوخ، لوکاچ، برشت و -علیالخصوص- بنیامین نوشتهاند نیز.و جمعبندیی مناسب و مب
شاید زیباترین و لذیذترین بخش آن -برایم- نامه‌های آدورنو به بنیامین و نقدهایش به لوکاچ و سارتر باشد. جزم‌اندیشی‌ی لوکاچ متاخر را می‌کوبد و ساده‌انگاری‌ی روایت سارتر از تعهد ادبیات را آشکار می‌کند. اصرارش بر هنری خودمختار است و خلاقانه. از مقالات مصالحه تحت اجبار و تعهد او که در این کتاب آمده است.«_قطعه‌های شعرگونه، تصویر دیالکتیکی‌ی حقیقت یک آرمان‌شهر است تا واقعیتی بی‌واسطه از آدم‌هایی سرگردان که در خیابان آواز می‌خوانند.»و البته آنچه بلوخ، لوکاچ، برشت و -علی‌الخصوص- بنیامین نوشته‌اند نیز.و جمع‌بندی‌ی مناسب و مبسوط جیمسون و ترجمه‌ی مطلوب حسن مرتضوی.
It is really interesting reading such opposing views about the role of communism in the arts.
However some of them are such extreme views that seem to be very limited and not open to other interpretations of art or communism.
It is also quite a hard book to understand if one does not have any background in art and artistic movements.
Mainly focused on the debate between the legitimacy of realism vs abstract art in connection to the communist ideal.
Depending on the views of the reader, certain chapters/ philosophers, might appeal more than others, but in general one will find interesting perspectives throughout the whole book.
3.5
Bloch and Lukacs argue about the nature of Expressionism, where Lukacs thinks that Expressionism's logical end is a fascist turn.
His critique of Lukacs' realist rigidity is incisive and maintains a more robust advocacy of a popular realism that Brecht tried to realize in his plays and poems.The Benjamin and Adorno pieces were surprisingly less interesting in my view, besides Adorno's last section against Sartre on 'commitment'.
His remarks on Lukacs' conception of 'decadence' (and reification) as well as Brecht's scientific Marxism provide the needed link between these 1930s pieces and today's Marxist discussions on aesthetics.
This volume could easily be subtitled "dispatches from a lost world." The writings here are generally far less interesting in their subject matter than what they have to say about the context they were written in, the authors' relationship to each other, and the shattered/shattering Mitteleuropa culture of the day. Bloch the optimist, Brecht the wit, Lukacs the failure, Benjamin and Adorno the transcendent geniuses. I could do without the conclusion by noted bloviator Fredric Jameson, though.
Adorno's parts were entirely insufferable, especially because you had to be familiar with a dozen or so references on any given page, but the rest was oddly comforting.
It's helped me understand why aesthetics remain important, or even gain in importance, when the whole world is going to shit.
That being said, Benjamin's story was pretty heartbreaking, especially when he's frank with Adorno about his anxiety and loneliness and desperation.
30'lu yılların önemli ekspresyonizm tartışmalarını gündeme alan derlemeyi yıllar sonra bir kere daha okudum. Bloch'tan Lukacs'a, Brecht'ten Adorno ve Benjamin'e kadar iki dünya savaşı arasındaki en önemli siyaset ve sanat ilişkisi tartışmasına Jameson'ın yazdığı sonsöz derleyici nitelikte. Ünsal Oskay hocanın çevirisi ne yazık ki çok iyi değil, çeviri dilinde çok fazla tutarsızlık, yabancı sözcük ve akış sorunu var. Buna rağmen "Das Wort" dergisinde başlayan tartışmanın hâlâ aşılmadığını, tüketilmediğini savunan biri olarak çubuğu fazlasıyla Lukacs'a bükmeden Brecht'e de kulak veren bir pozisyonun önemli olduğunu düşünüyorum. Adorno'nun "liberalizmi" Bloch'un "ütopyacılığını" ne yazık ki bastırıyor, görünmez kılıyor. Daha çok okunmalı, daha çok tartışılmalı...
A great book on theories of aesthetics, art, and the role of politics in the literary and the visual. The reader is easy enough to read, with great translations and background information provided in the introductions to the sections. I loved how the text was presented as a "dialogue," as the selections chosen were those of authors responding to each other's works critically and insightfully. A great read for anyone interested in the Frankfurt School of theory.
I, again, had to read this for my critical theory class, but this was much less accessible than the other Adorno text we read. Since this is full of other authors, they have very different writing styles that are difficult to understand. They are also basing their arguments on writings that I am not familiar with.
An interesting collection of essays although highly specific. They required a lot of previous knowledge so they were quite hard to understand in various occasions. Nevertheless, I learnt a lot by reading it.
The Brecht/Lukacs quarrel is legendary. Adorno's and Benjamin's letters to each other are adorable!
To be honest, I don't have an academic background and this is the first time I've read a book like this.
I like Walter Benjamin and dislike Adorno.
Everyone but Benjamin and Bloch is aiming for him, but as in the afterword was argued, they mostly missed.
Adorno turns out to be an interesting writer who alternates between very dense conglomerations of big almost illegible words and strong even very enjoyable polemics with his times.
I gues that's a problem when you don't reason from the basics, like biology or culture, but always approach everything from the head and words.
There is no real politics left anymore.
I keep going back to what you said about how, "Lukac's argument that there may never have been such a thing as an Expressionist writer but only Expressionist theory" and I feel that he does acknowledge that literary history recognizes this notion of an expressionist writer and says, "since our dispute is concerned with the evaluation of individual writers, it is not of paramount importance that for us to resolve this problem (29)." He continues by not necessarily challenging their existence, but wants to prove Brecht wrong by illustrating their failed attempt at a movement bound for a demise.It is interesting because even later in Lukacs' essay he admits to the "dethroning" of Expressionism as a "product of the maturity of the revolutionary masses (40)." He makes it clear that the lives and careers of these Soviet poets needed to be examined in order to grasp the demise of Expressionism.
Also interesting to read the criticism at the start of each chapter -- by Jameson?
-- tho it makes me feel a bit ambivalent; like, I'd kind of like it if I just thought Adorno was the perfect thing and could not be made better in any way, but there are some very valid criticisms of him here I think mainly in the chapter with Benjamin than elsewhere; also his idea of jazz is (from what's mentioned of it here -- I haven't read it first hand which is very intellectually suspect of me!) so way off the mark as to be embarrassing.
Mostly I don't know what the hell they are talking about.
Bertolt Brecht agreed with Lukacs, but want to formulate different kind of realism.
Basically, Lukacs wanted work of art to be timeless.
But, Brecht wanted work of art to adapt with each generation.
Lukacs is like the old conservative realist.
However, Brecht is like, "No, We can't, dude.
Not every realist work of art have to be like that.".
And Brecht accused Lukacs for being formalist.
Actually, I don't really know what Adorno is talking about.
But, he didn't really like Brecht.
He didn't like Uncle Benjamin hanging around with Brecht (WTF Teddie!
if i ran a creative writing grad school, i'd make every first-year read this book.
i felt better about america for a second when i found not one but two copies at the barnes and noble in the leafy, sun-dappled arboretum.this book collects definitive essays by german-speaking literary critics of the mid-twentieth century.
furthermore, many of these essays were also written at a point when something was going clearly wrong in the supposed anti-fascist utopia next door, and the socialist dream to which many of these writers had committed themselves seemed like a trap door to totalitarianism, either through reactionary triumph (Hitler) or through co-opting (Stalin.) is it barbaric to write poetry after auschwitz?
Some of the exchanges made fairly opaque allusions to outside work.
This occasionally got in the way of a full understanding but generally some strategic reading did the trick.Useful not just as a record of leftist politics in dire times, or a primer on modernism, but also a guide to how and why left wing thinking began to move away from "exaltation" of a single class.
Also more than a little drama, with Jameson trying to salvage Lukacs from a reputation as a Stalinist sellout, at the same time as he reminds readers of Adorno's questionable commitments to repressive elements in the Cold War era West.
Not a key text outside of an art history/literature type context, but still very informative and lively.
To quote Jameson's Conclusion to this volume: "It is not only political history which those who ignore are condemned to repeat. ... Nowhere has this 'return of the repressed' been more dramatic than in the aesthetic conflict between 'Realism' and 'Modernism,' whose navigation and renegotiation is still unavoidable for us today, even though we may feel that each position is in some sense right and yet that neither is any longer wholly acceptable."
a really neat format - two critical essays/reviews are paired in dialogue with each other, with each dialogue framed by a general intro to put things in context. teases out resonances and nuances you might not necessarily get when reading each essay in isolation. i wish people would do this more often!
I'm auditing a class on Modernism, and have been incredibly intimidated by the isms and the ations, but this book has been a balm--it's extremely well laid out.
excellent, but ONLY if you know a little about marxist theory. otherwise you're going to be completely lost. as it is, the book reminds one of the stuff that one HASN'T read.
amazing that this book is in print again. buy it NOW if you want academic street cred.
This has been one of the most influential books I've read on material culture, literature and the effect of art on society.I cannot recommend this book highly enough.
