https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127232.On_Revolution
Furthermore, the American is a success because it achieved its goals (liberty for those who revolted), and the French a failure not only in its original case, but from the turbulent actions of the next two centuries in order to establish a stable republic (See also French History until the establishment of the Fifth Republic in 1956).The American-type of revolution was based from an Aristotlean 'elite' conception of political actors in human nature.
Introduction--On RevolutionNotesBibliographyIndex

Arendt claimed that the French Revolution was a struggle over scarcity and inequality, while the American Revolution was quest to secure political freedom.
The Americans, living in a land of plenty and having a tradition of freedom, were trying to create a unique state, making their revolution far more civic.
Arendt’s contribution was that she saw this material motive as the true basis for the French Revolution, and therefore the reason why it turned towards terror and tyranny.
When she does this, the book becomes much more interesting, although any enjoyment is still hampered by the almost unbearably long sentences, each filled with as many as five different ideas punctuated by hyphens, colons, commas and parentheses.
America got lucky, starting from scratch, and the success of their and any revolution was dependent upon a foundation -- in the American case, the foundation of a constitution and new form of government, which is something the French and most subsequent revolutions failed to do.
But this one is important nonetheless, especially for anyone interested in political theory or the concept of freedom.Not Bad Reviews@blakerosser1
اضطرت إلى ترك ماربورغ، لأن هايدغر الذي اعتبرته ملكاً خاصا في مملكة التفكير، كان متزوجاً في محيط كاثوليكي محافظ، لتكمل دراستها عند الفيلسوف كارل ياسبرز في جامعة هايدلبرغ، التي قدمت فيها أطروحة الدكتوراه عام 1928.
في كتاب في الثورة تحليل ذكي جداً للظاهرة السياسية الحديثة نسبياً، وفيه تنظر أرندت في المبادئ التي تشكل أساس الثورات جميعها، بدءاً من الأمثلة الأولى في أميركا وفرنسا، مروراً بكيفية تطوّر نظرية الثورة وممارستها، وصولاً إلى توقعات التغيير في العلاقة بين الحرب والثورة، وما ينتج من هذا التغيير على صعيد العلاقات الدولية.كل ظهور جديد للناس, كل فكرة جديدة تحدث تأثيراً مدوياً تحتاج إلى كلمة جديدة, سواءً جرى صياغة كلمة جديدة للتعبير عن التجربة الجديدة, أو تم استخدام كلمة قديمة وجرى إعطاؤها معنى جديداً تماماً.
Arendt argues that the American revolution should have been the model for the 20th century revolutions in, e.g., South America and Africa, but instead the revolutionaries took the French revolution as their model.
Because it was not concerned with the 'social question.' The U.S. revolution, on Arendt's understanding, was entirely concerned with *creating* a strong state, which could hold together the various colonies, and provide an enduring space of political action.
Poor people don't care about 'politics,' so the space for discussion the founders set up was allowed to atrophy.
The unique success of the American revolution was due, first, to the "natural abundance" of America, which allowed the revolution here to complete its political course.
The question is whether the sort of active, self-determined political life that is possible during a revolution can be maintained without constant new revolutions as Jefferson (and Mao, tho Arendt doesn't go there) believed.
Local councils have self-organized in every revolutionary setting from France in 1789 o Hungary in 1956, emphatically including Russia 1917 -- taht's after all what the Soviet in Soviet Union referred to.
Local councils allow everyone to experience self-government directly, and by delegating power upward can constitute regional and national governments.
2.5/5 The Greeks held that no one can be free except among [their] peers, that therefore neither the tyrant nor the despot nor the master of a household—even though [they were] full liberated and [were] not forced by others—was free.As no [one] shall show me a Commonwealth born straight that ever became crooked, so no [one] shall show me a Commonwealth born crooked that ever became straight. –James Harrington Contrary to appearances, I don't regret reading this. True, it took forever, but that's
I don't know how it would work, but considering the existence of the Internet, modern technology, the We the People website, and how much money Big Brother already spends stamping out today's "little republics", it would be possible if all the whiny brats still clinging to their capitalism would grow up and start paying it forward till the point that this necessary political work could be done.
(Li em português - Hannah Arendt - Sobre a Revolução) O livro não é exatamente o que eu esperava (talvez eu esperasse uma abordagem mais "romântica" da revolução...), ele aborda o tema da revolução principalmente a partir da Revolução Francesa e da Revolução Americana, mas achei bem legal. Recomendo muito o último capítulo, que é a parte que achei mais interessante no livro, com uma diferenciação legal sobre o sistema de conselhos e o sistema de partidos e como o cidadão é representado (ou não é) em cada um.
Her analysis is subtle and nuanced; it gave me a great deal to think about.I’d previously read commentary somewhere on how the American revolution began from a situation of relative plenty, as this New World was empty and full of natural resources.
Arendt explores the consequences:Since [the Enlightenment], the passion of compassion has haunted and driven the best men of all revolutions, and the only revolution in which compassion played no role in the motivation of the actors was the American Revolution.
Indeed, reading Arendt’s detailed, often admiring analysis of how the American political system employs checks and balances is deeply depressing today.
a lot of people told me this book is very bad. turns out, they're correct
"En radikal devrimci bile devrimin ertesi günü muhafazakar olacak."“Devrimler daima, başlangıç aşamalarında hayret verici bir kolaylıkla başarılı olurlar; çünkü devrimleri başlatanların yaptığı, düpedüz dağılma içindeki bir rejimin iktidarını toplamaktan ibarettir. Devrimler, asla siyasal otoritenin çöküşünün sebepleri değil, aksine sonuçlarıdır.”“Kendini kandırma ve iktidar dürtüsü, profesyonel devrimcileri halkın devrimci organlarına düşman eden nihai unsurlar değildi; devrimci partilerin diğer partilerle paylaştığı şeyler, daha ziyade temel inançlardı. Yönetimin amacının halkın refahı olduğu noktasında ve siyasetin özünün de eylem değil idare olduğu konusunda anlaşmışlardı. Bu bağlamda, sağdan sola bütün partilerin birbirleriyle olan ortak noktaları, devrimci grupların konseylerle bugüne dek kurabilmiş oldukları ortaklıktan daha fazladır."
she's a bit of an anomaly as far as theorists come; she somehow fuses a profound appreciation for the anarcho-communist (although she would never use this term) movements of the 19th and 20th century with a strange devotion to the american revolution and its founding fathers.
also, for what it's worth, arendt – like most other theorists of the global north – seems only capable of offering revolutionary examples and models from euroamerica.
The French Revolution lost its purpose, and its way, when it attempted “the transformation of the Rights of Man into the rights of Sans-Culottes.” (Failure to appreciate this doomed the Russian Revolution as well, she says.) Arendt doesn’t think that poverty is good, but rather that only focusing on relieving poverty is inadequate, because that’s not all that people need, nor is it even what they want.
The Americans avoided the pitfall of excessive focus on material improvement, because poverty was far less common; or, viewed another way, the political life, true freedom, was closer and more reachable for Americans, and it was also, or therefore, the goal on which the Founders focused.The book is basically an expansion on these topics, with very many branching thoughts.
رائع حد الدهشة

This book is about the American and French Revolutions of the XVIIIth century , always with an eye on the Ancient Greeks and the Roman Republic .
The main characters are : John Adams , Thomas Jefferson , Montesquieu , Rousseau , Robespierre , and fellows .
The book is full of quotes and notes , and the quotes of John Adams are the best ones .
I don't know his writings , but looking at the quotes in this book , they must be remarkable .Do you want to know more ?
Read the book .
But be prepared , this book is an overdose of intelligence .
I really enjoy Arendt's writing - accessible, thorough, and incredibly in-depth. My only complaint about this book is that it focuses specifically on the US and French revolutions to the point of exclusivity, and I think that many of the points that she makes in comparing the two could have been well-served by exploring other revolutions like Russia, China, and Cuba. In this sense it's a bit unnecessarily Cartesian in tone, which saddens me as Arendt is certainly capable of comparing and contrasting the richer subtleties of a number of revolutionary contexts.
"The momentous role that hypocrisy and the passion for its unmasking came to play in the later stages of the French Revolution, though it may never cease to astound the historian, is a matter of historical record. The revolution, before it proceeded to devour its own children, had unmasked them, and French historiography, in more than a hundred and fifty years, has reproduced and documented all these exposures until no one is left among the chief actors who does not stand accused, or at least suspected, of corruption, duplicity, and mendacity."
The style makes it a bit of a slog tbh. As to the ideas, they're interesting. I've never known much about the American revolution and my knowledge of the French revolution from my obsession with it in highschool has faded but I feel that a lot of the broad strokes that she makes aren't quite right, and that it would be a better book if it the comparisons between French and American revolutions were less abstract.
It is a must read for all Leftist, and especially Anarchists. I am so happy I read this. I need to read more by her. It gives so much more depth to thoughts I've already thought. Way more depth. It also sheds light on organizations and I found it interesting to apply the ideas to the establishing of authority and community ethics at Apro. It is making me think politically in a new way, and I'm grateful to have read this in South Africa right around election time 15 years post-liberation.
Arendt argues that the American revolution is not sufficiently understood, and that contemporary events are all too often styled after the french revolution which was a failure. Arendt believes the American revolution was a success because it established political, rather than social, equality in America.
For one thing, if you're going to spend so much time praising the genius of America, it would certainly behoove you to make more than passing discussion of the sources of its early prosperity (enslaved labor, stolen land, violence against humans defined to be nonhuman).
I mean, please.) And of course she will also blithely assume, tossing it out the side of her mouth without even a hint of argument or support, that obviously the state can do nothing to help increase human happiness.So, as I said, a mixed bag.
Oh wow I do not have the attention span for this.
Arendt does have profound things to say about hypocrisy as a political sin and a human psychological necessity and the nature and origin of revolution in the modern sense of the word but I felt she went more off base with her praise of the American political system versus the more multi-party systems of continental European countries.
I think it's interesting to apply what she wrote to the Arab Spring where the spontaneous political uprisings quickly gave way to either a new authoritarian rule or sectarian violence with no clear objective from any party.
The French Revolution, Arendt argues, failed because its leaders had set themselves the impossible task of ridding these problems by political means, resulting in anger, terror, and, ironically, a return to despotism due to their inability to replace the deposed authority with a suitable alternative.The American Revolution, on the other hand, succeeded because it was concerned with securing political freedom rather than a cure for the misery of the impoverished masses.
La idea central de la Revolución Americana, sostuvo, es el establecimiento de la libertad, o, en verdad, la fundación de un cuerpo político que garantice el espacio donde pueda operar la libertad.
Imperio Pág.125Hannah Arendt proclamó que la Revolución Americana era superior a la Francesa porque era una búsqueda ilimitada de libertad política, mientras que la Francesa era una lucha limitada sobre la escasez y la desigualdad, no sólo celebró un ideal de libertad que los europeos desconocían desde mucho tiempo atrás, sino que también lo reterritorializó en los Estados Unidos.
It is also Arendt further working out her political philosophy, begun in The Human Condition, in a more concrete context.I think she's probably right in her general assessment of the French and American Revolutions.
It's difficult to imagine "the people" settling for a form of politics which sees itself as a public performance and stops short of addressing economic issues.There was also a very tendentious reading of Marx's changing attitude to the French commune which rested on an incorrectly dated quote.All in all this was a wonderful book.
It deals with two major political events of modern time and tries to put them in modern perspective.
Every political issue of our time can be traced back to those as Arendt diligently describes.
Naturally, she backs her claims with quotations from works and correspondence of major figures of both american and french revolutions, so readers can make better picture of their thoughts and motives.Arendt's major theme, authority and its origins is in full display here and we can see how it was revolutionized in 18th and 19th century.
Readers are left to ponder what it means for our society ...
