https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16893.The_Crack_Up
C'è un altro genere di colpi che arriva dall'interno, che avverti solo quando è troppo tardi per correre ai ripari, quando prendi coscienza senza appello che per certi aspetti non sarai più quello di un tempo.
Il primo tipo di incrinatura sembra prodursi in fretta; il secondo si produce quasi a tua insaputa ma, d'un tratto, ne hai piena coscienza."È interessante vedere come Fitzgerald parli dei suoi quarant'anni come l'età del crollo, dove cade pure "la certezza di avere un cuore".
Lo scrittore non riesce più ad avere contatti umani o quasi, si ritrova isolato dalla società e anche dal suo comportamento che ora rinnega.
This shows just how far Fitzgerald descended...his is a story of wasted talent...BUT (and this is what I like to focus on) it is also a story of how he began a slow, painstaking ascent...He realized how far he had fallen, and he decided to make the long, hard climb back up...Too bad his heart simply gave out on him...Had he lived longer, it would have been interesting to see what he produced...
There's some beautiful writing here, especially in the first portion of the book, which is comprised of several essays by FSF.
(Also, there's a wonderful poem by Edmund Wilson (I didn't know he wrote poetry) at the front of the book.) In the essays, FSF, while admitting that more distance was needed, shows a remarkable grasp of the Jazz age and what it meant -- and didn't mean.
FSF & Zelda were the Keith and Anita of their day, literary rock stars boozing it up and travelling hard.
Truth be told, I think I enjoyed some of the other essays more, especially the ones coauthored with Zelda.
Del tipo: sentirsi come "un piatto crepato" e dopo aver scartato la soluzione di scappare nei mari del sud o in un altro Altrove ("La famosa «fuga», ovvero «piantare tutto in asso», è una gita in una trappola"), pensare di venirne fuori appendendo alla porta il cartello "cave canem".Un lettore pignolo al contrario potrebbe esercitarsi a lungo.
Per esempio sulla frase con cui l'autore ci dice che sta vivendo "una deflazione di tutti i miei valori".
Passeremo l'altra mezza a lamentarci della deflazione, cioè della sparizione - peraltro con una contemporaneità sospetta - di denaro e idee?).Alla fine della giostra, "Un critico maldisposto potrebbe liquidare il tutto come il piagnisteo di un bambino viziato".
I couldn't agree more with the reviewer who observed she had not expected to care so much for the author. I started reading this volume as a long time but only luke-warm reader of Fitzgerald. This painful memoir of his depression and recovery was initially intellectually engaging but to my amazement became intimate and absorbing in ways Fitgerald's novels are not. In this book of short stories, letters, and misc. prose Fitzgerald turned his considerable talents towards examining, as Philip Lopate suggests, the character of the "I," and the reader is much the better for his efforts.
As someone who enjoyed immense fame and success at an early age but then lived to see a day when all his books were out of print he has a very topsy turvy personal experience of the losing of illusions to draw on.
Much of what he writes in these essays has been quoted, the most famous of which is probably this - Before I go on with this short history, let me make a general observation -- the test of a first-rate intelligence is the ability to hold two opposed ideas in the mind at the same time, and still retain the ability to function.
This is a collection of autobiographical writings of Fitzgerald -- essays, letters, excerpts from his notebooks -- and it shows a man's downfall, a crisis with which I had not been expecting to care about as much as I ended up caring about it, and to my surprise, Fitzgerald pulling himself up out of the darkness and making a fresh start.
It's so strange -- you expect him to be this tragic hero, but in the end he was trying to get back to normalcy and he had just a normal, run of the mill heart attack.
I did not expect to like my hero.
His essays on "cracking up" were amazing. Far more reflective, pensive, and bitter than his earlier pride and exuberance. The letters were a highlight. I don't know how or why Edmund Wilson put up with him for so long, but the letter from Thomas Wolfe was absolutely sublime.
Tre articoli pubblicati su Esquire tra il febbraio e l'aprile del 1936, in cui FSF "confessa" ai lettori il crollo che ha subito la sua vita a partire dall'anno precedente.
[...] Nondimeno mi adopererò per essere un animale corretto e, se mi getterete un osso con un po’ di carne da azzannare, potrei anche leccarvi la mano.».PS: in fondo, a mo' di postfazione, c'è un saggio di Ottavio Fatica (il traduttore) che avrei tanto voluto apprezzare ma che ho trovato illeggibile.
4+
Per quanto riguarda le note al testo: potevano essere messe in modo tradizionale, con dei numerini che dal brano alla relativa nota perchè scritte così in fondo tutte insieme sono piuttosto inutili (specialmente se si sta usando un e-reader).La critica finale è scritta in maniera criptica, infarcita di termini arcaici con frasi dalla struttura bizzarra che bisogna rileggere più volte per capire qual è il soggetto, quale il complemento oggetto, se ce ne sono...
Insomma sembra scritta per NON farsi capire.
Quindi poteva tenersela sul suo comodino, che una "roba" incomprensibile ai lettori non serve.
I love how perfectly Fitzgerald crafts and imparts an imaginative moment or character.
His creative well seemed to be bottomless and the incredible number of notes made me think that there actually could be value in carrying around a moleskine notebook to record otherwise-fleeting thoughts.
I'm certainly no Fitzgerald, and never attempt at anything remotely creative in the fictional literary sense (I suck, trust me on this), but this collection demonstrates the value of little, passing thoughts.
The notes reveal his creative imagination in its rawest form as well as snippets of his emotional and intellectual life and development.
And in the Crack Up he later reached out to pen an afterward to the Great Gatsby from the momentum of his own life in dissarray.
Though common knowledge that Fitzgerald is an estimable American author, The Crack Up, lets his audiences see his interior world in a more wretched state.
Along the way he also teaches about the Fitzgeraldian technique of perception where we see how the author wrestles with his own perceptual process and creative impulses.
At points he wrangles eloquently with that wooly mammoth of American life - time-honored obscene wealth and its virtuous twin, creative abundance.

He was the hipster of his generation, maybe the first of the many annoying youth movements to piss off 20th century old people, and he got criticized for it since the publication of his bestselling THIS SIDE OF PARADISE to damning opinion pieces printed before the ink dried on his obituary.
That seems more fitting to me after reading THE CRACK-UP, a collection of later essays, notebooks, letters, articles, reminiscences and poems by or about Fitzgerald.The book is edited by Fitzgerald’s old friend Edmund Wilson, who deserves much credit too for kind of inventing a new form of literature that took Fitzgerald’s first-person literary confessional (itself ahead of its time) and created a collage portrait of the man, almost cubist in its varying perspectives.
Scott Fitzgerald, along with a variety of essays by contemporaries in the 1945 collection entitled The Crack-Up. The piece contains previously unpublished work creative nonfiction musings on events and philosophical reflections from his life as well as over a hundred and fifty fragments of stories and creative musings that were meticulously rewritten, organized, and curated by Fitzgerald before his death.
The imagery collected in these fragmented narratives and stark reflective exploded moments used in this larger chunk of the volume bears the most impact on craft, exploring theme with clause-level obsessiveness.
Fitzgerald's life was one lived hard, leading to his early death less than four years after writing this essay.
"Nel giro di un mese eccomi insofferente al suono della radio, alla pubblicità sulle riviste, allo stridio dei binari, al silenzio di tomba della campagna: sprezzante verso la mollezza umana, sempre pronto a inalberarmi ( senza espormi però ) di fronte alla durezza: odiavo la notte, che m'impediva di dormire, e odiavo il Giorno, perché andava incontro alla notte. Dormivo dalla parte del cuore, ora, sbrigandomi sia pur di poco a fiaccarlo."
Un magnifique recueil de nouvelles semi autobiographiques sur la dépression, le sentiment du déclin post WWI, la mélancolie (regard tourné vers le passé), l’insomnie, la génération perdue et le métier d’écrivain.
There are various overlapping books by this title; mine (which doesn't have that cover) collects the rueful autobiographical essays along with various tales on overlapping themes (I nearly described the stories as autobiographical too but Hell, with Fitzgerald you can pretty much take that as read, can't you?).
Although of course I do have ten months to go.If the essays are all winners (and let's face it, even the title 'Echoes of the Jazz Age' is better than many writers' entire oeuvre), the same can't necessarily be said of the stories.
As the forward to this sections states: "Certain of them were evidently intended to be used in the short stories of his later years; but, actually he seems rarely so to have used them; and this was perhaps because they belonged to a plane of the activity of his mind and his craft...." I enjoyed this section because I loved feeling as though I was reading Fitzgerald's personal thoughts, and discovering the little observations that made him tick.
Marry me Scott
Fitzgerald had it all, lost it, got it back and lost it again, struggling forever to bring back what he once had, but like the Jazz Age, the past was gone forever, and try though he might, happiness is hard to bring back when one is stuck, sinking in the mire of despair: “In a real dark night of the soul it is always three o’clock in the morning, day after day.” Despite his inner struggles, his lapses in creativity and his personal demons, Fitzgerald’s place in the literary world is now well-established, and in addition to a wonderful collection of novels and short stories (mixed in with several not-so-good ones), The Crack Up is yet another testament to the immense talent of F.
There is quite a bit of deception in the description of this book.
The article “The Crack-Up” is published here with a series of letters to and from Fitzgerald.
Fitzgerald’s writing notebooks ( literary scraps mostly of a line or two) don’t read very well in one setting and feel like filler.
They are a large part of the book.
There is also some literary criticism from his contemporaries and articles about his death and body of work.
I you have a great interest in Fitzgerald this book is for you.
If you’re more interested in his writing for pleasure don’t bother with it.
Tre articoli di Fitzgerald, relativi ad un suo periodo di depressione.Scrittura elegante e piacevole, anche qualche riflessione interessante, ma... manca completamente di "forza" (a mio parere).Su un argomento del genere, mi aspettavo un po' più di coinvolgimento, soprattutto perché da come lo descrive la quarta di copertina, doveva essere una sincera confessione da parte dell'autore. A me sembra, al contrario, che Fitzgerald mantenga un certo distacco, e sia ben lontano da mostrare davvero il proprio crollo. Questa, almeno, è l'impressione che mi ha dato.
Ormai sono una seguace fedele di Fitzgerald e leggere questo libro breve e vederlo così disilluso e stanco mi ha fatto sentire triste. Deve essere stato difficile per lui essere così sincero.
F. Scott really dragged me to pieces with this one y’all wow
Penna amaraSono così poche le pagine di questo libro - o piuttosto di questi tre articoletti strappati alla penna amara di Fitzgerald - che si leggono in poco più di mezz'oretta.
Ma ciò non toglie nulla all'eleganza di questo autore che descrive qui il proprio crollo con fredda poesia.
Lui è il "piatto crepato" del secondo articolo, il fragile, l'uomo colpito che più non si rialza ma si accinge a capire la sua caduta, ed a spiegarcela."Io avevo solo bisogno di pace assoluta per arrivare a capire come mai avessi maturato un atteggiamento triste nei confronti della tristezza, un atteggiamento malinconico nei confronti della malinconia, e un atteggiamento tragico nei confronti della tragedia."
Y de eso va este libro, las reflexiones de un hombre que se derrumba sin poder hacer nada para remediarlo excepto lanzar unos últimos destellos de lo que pudo haber sido pero que nunca logró ser por una letal combinación de circunstancias que se sumaron a malas decisiones y vicios muy arraigados en su personalidad.
Pero la vida y la literatura son así de crueles y severas, con paralelismos escalofriantes como el que bien podría establecerse entre Fitzgerald y sus personajes, como aquel Gatsby que, a pesar de ofrecer tanta luminosidad, terminó en el abandono, en el olvido, con unos pocos fieles pero con cierto encanto en la derrota.
There is another sort of blow that comes from within-that you don't feel until it's too late to do anything about it, until you realize with finality that in some regard you will never be as good a man again.
The first sort of breakage seems to happen quick-the second kind happens almost without your knowing it but is realized suddenly indeed.”
If you read this book, it is much better to have a context of what was going on his life during the time of his letters, so below is a short timeline of events which are not described in the book but give good context:By 1924: Zelda had cheated on Scott for the first time then unsuccessfully tried killing herself out of shame.
Tom wins Daisy back from his affair just as Scott did in real life.1930: Zelda has her first mental breakdown and indicates homosexual desires.
"Va bene che la vita è tutta un processo di disgregamento, ma i colpi di portata micidiale - i colpacci improvvisi che arrivano, o sembrano arrivare, dall'esterno e che restano impressi, da addurre poi a discolpa, o che confesserai agli amici nei momenti di debolezza - quelli lasciano sempre qualche strascico.
C'è un altro genere di colpi che arriva dall'interno, che avverti solo quando è troppo tardi per correre ai ripari, quando prendi coscienza senza appello che per certi aspetti non sarai più quello di un tempo.
I didn't actually finish this book; I really only came to it to read "The Crack Up" and I was only reading it because it's discussed in Deleuze and Guattari's A Thousand Plateaus, which I'm reading as part of a reading group.But damn it's good.
I have a friend who loves stories written by depressed and self-loathing alcoholics who are undergoing some sort of break, and "The Crack Up" takes the type and gives it a good thrashing.
"Instead of being so sorry for yourself, listen --" she said.
Suppose this wasn't a crack in you -- suppose it was a crack in the Grand Canyon.""The crack's in me," I said heroically."Listen!
The world only exists in your eyes -- your conception of it.
By God, if I ever cracked, I'd try to make the world crack with me.
Listen!
The world only exists through your apprehension of it, and it's much better to say that it's not you that's cracked -- it's the Grand Canyon.""Baby et up all her Spinoza?" "I don't know anything about Spinoza.
From the opening terrible bathetic poem by Bunny (e.g. describing, apparently, FSF's eyes: "The cornea tough, the aqueous chamber cold, / Those glassy optic bulbs that globe and hold") to the stilted manly prose of Fitzgerald himself, through whose lines nonetheless so much may be read—I don't know.
Mostly, above all, for two reasons: the web of writerly relationships it reveals (the letter from Wharton, about Gatsby!) and mostly the strange middle section, "The Note-books," which I want to read every day for the rest of my life.
Want to own this one, and write weird poems off of all his uncollected anecdotes and aphorisms and unused titles.
To follow the progression of your favorite person's breakdown through essays, letters, notes...
In an essay about Scott that was written in 1925, before Gatsby was published, Paul Rosenfeld writes:He has seen his material from its own point of view, and he has seen it completely from without.
But he has never done what the artist does: seen it simultaneously from within and without; and loved it and judged it, too.And then there is this, my favorite line in all The Great Gatsby:I was within and without, simultaneously enchanted and repelled by the inexhaustible variety of life.
Of the sixteen short stories in this book, the first few are probably reflecting young Fitzgerald's experiences in first loves, all very pleasant reading. Then comes the Travel period, which reminds me a lot of Hemingway's "A movable feast", in which the Fitzgerald couple where partly involved.With "The crack up" comes the explanation of the authors tragic and sad ending.
FSF speaks the truth in "The Crack-Up," in probably the most cogent piece of writing on despair since Kierkegaard's The Sickness Unto Death. But FSF tops Kierkegaard. He speaks in plain American English of the fate that befalls many Americans. It's almost like he's writing about my life. But I've felt this way about other books of his, especially his masterpiece, Tender Is the Night. FSF is a giant - and this essay allows one to read Gatsby and Night in the same way as one reads Rimbaud, Céline, Miller...a direct revelation of consciousness. Sheer brilliance and truth.
Well done, Scott, you old anti-Semitic booze hound, who defined the rage of a generation of self-entitled nitwits! It was all over for my lantzman from Twin Cities, Minnesota, and the title essays were written as hack pieces for Esquire to keep him bloated in gin and Zelda bleary in the bughouse. And it's brilliant. Why is he so much more likable, readable, and meaningful in thinking when he's broken down and cracked up? Hooray, in his case and in this book, where he describes that time of the soul when it's always the middle of the night.
"Una volta, quando la linfa scorreva nelle vene come merce esente da dogana, il tentativo di spartirla con altri era andato regolarmente incontro allo smacco; per mischiare ulteriormente le metafore, la vitalità non << si attacca >> mai.
Uno ce l'ha o non ce l'ha, come la salute o gli occhi castani o l'onore o una voce baritonale." ...
"Sto imparando a mettere nella voce quella causticità compita che fa sentire alla gente come, lungi dall'essere benvenuta, sia non dico a malapena tollerata ma tenuta senza tregua sotto torchio."
Collectively they are only 15 pages long, but they spurred responses from critics and other authors, many which are included in this book.
We learn that Fitzgerald was constantly writing, writing and writing—and not just short stories, novels and essays.
Throughout his life, starting as a teenager, he was constantly writing phrases, sentences and paragraphs that he might use later in his published works.
The final pages of the book consist of letters and tributes by Thomas Wolfe, John Dos Passos and noted critics of his day.One can read about what Fitzgerald was reading, what he liked and didn't like, and what he thought about other writers.
This central point lends an ominous, suicidal note to everything in this volume, but Fitzgerald fights that option off by, it seems, writing, and having hope in finding the right thing, the right way.
And I don't know if that's a good thing.
Attributing his decline to personal negligence--"there was to be no more giving of myself--all giving was to be outlawed henceforth under a new name, and that name was waste"--he will, to recover, be "a writer only" and not "an entire man." And in the selections from his notebooks, we see Fitzgerald's skill at observing and capturing, along with his limits when it comes to straining toward philosophy or generalizations.
I don't think any great writer can live that way, live and be great.
I love this man, I think we would have made the best of friends, or the best of therapists. He would have been the greatest blogger! That's sort of what this is. His descent into and back out of madness is so eloquent and insightful (if not completely self-indulgent). Too bad he had too much booze, too much time, too much fame, too much money sunk into a stash of potted meat and crackers to take a step back and look at the big picture. He was his own worst enemy.
A collection of essays, many of which are off-topic, but they had to be-a person cannot look so directly and honestly on their own broken soul without turning away at times. Fitzgerald's crack-up has always been illustrative to me and it's something I've thought a lot about. I call it the Second Act Fallacy, and you pity and feel for a man with so much talent and wisdom who was unable to apply it to himself.
Winner take nothing (cit.) Poche paginette (con note e un'articolo a postfazione inquadrante non a cardatura per fortuna) da tre articoletti che FSF invi� sollecitato da Esquire che, rivista allora di desueta squisitezza, ricordava lui che avrebbe pubblicato anche la sua lista della lavanderia.
Fegato di classe comunque, le paginette sono quelle che riprendono il detto di San Giovanni della Croce "In a real dark night of the soul..." e rilanciano "...it is always three o'clock in the morning" Perfetto per chi, incerto fra credente e credulone, si mantenga correndo sul filo lucido del rasoio, la dissipata decadenza degenerata e debosciata ha di questi rischi.
Love, love LOVE this book of Fitzgerald's.
Mainly because his writing is just so beautiful, lyrical, poetic, evocative...
but also because you really get to know him as a man, to a small degree obviously, but still, you do.
What a fascinating and lovely man, in all his imperfections and quirks.
When he died he had only a couple of debts.
He was a compulsive bill payer and he had provided and made arrangements for his daughter Scottie.
When you learn those kinds of things, along with his sad and cynical outlook on life, you love the man even more.
Rabbia.C'è livore nella scelta di non esistere di Fitzgerald. Non abbandono, ma rabbia. Una partita che non è stata chiusa del tutto. Una decisione consapevole eppure non completamente accettata.
