https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5672133-boston-blackie
I picked-up this book because I really enjoy the radio show from the 40s of the same name.
This book picks-up where the radio show ends (before the TV series, which I had no idea existed until a friend told me).
This is a collection of short stories that are intertwined making me think they were released as a serial in a monthly magazine.
Good writing and stories; makes me wish there was more from Jock Boyle, but I haven't been able to find anything else written by him except for this title.
Gave up. Too 19th century ... in writing, plot, attitudes. Boring and semi-offensive. Not that some 19th century authors aren't very readable.
This is a good book in the crime/mystery genre that is also a throwback to the mid to early 20th century.
Boston Blackie is a reformed safe-cracker, and jewel thief, who has a strict code of honor.
He will not snitch on anyone, even if it means it goes poorly for himself.This is a very enjoyable read, and it made me look up some of the old movie and TV series from long ago about the famous Boston Blackie.
I would recommend this to anyone who has a nostalgia for crime stories the way they used to be, before vulgarity and porn took over.
Boyle is similar to Rosewater's description of Kilgore Trout, "My God, if the man could only write!" That said, he certainly created an intriguing and original character in Blackie, who has a strong sense of morality, even if that morality is out of sync with society.
I've found that I remember more about the details of some of the stories in this book than I do about the book I read last week, particularly those of Blackie's stretch in prison and the boat heist.
While Boyle will never be confused with Dickens or Flaubert, he certainly achieved something when he created the fascinating persona of Boston Blackie.
Boston Blackie is a book, a radio show,movie, and tv show. This book gives you a hint of why they all state that this crook who live by a code " is a enamy to thouse who make him an enamy, and a friend who has no friend." this story written around 1919 is a great example of the values and speech of the time along with being a great read.
interesting look at the book that led to movies, books and classic radio shows. People who lived inthefirst half of the Twentieth century will find this book from 1919 interesting reading.
Excellent read! Keep in mind vintage 1919 and it will be most enjoyable!
The radio and movies that were using these short stories as basis for a character seem to sell the character of Blackie as a Robin Hood who was turning his life around, a modern day heroes who helped the down trodden.
It just went and showed me that yet again what Hollywood gets their hands on a popular character they totally rearrange that character to help sell the movie, tv or radio version.
This is really for a fan of pulp detective or action stories and those that know what sort of hack like or even trope like writing they are getting into.
Because of naustalia, I tried this book as I remember seeing a movie of Boston Blackie when I was young. The book, however, is not for me. It's almost like Robin Hood paying retribution upon those breaking the criminal code of ethics. He is a thief no less. The book is like short stories of different instances involving crooks or when Blackie is successful on a heist.
I listened to the Livrovox recording of this book by Winston Tharp. He did a fabulous rendition which harkened back to the old radio shows. I highly recommend both the book and the recording.
Enjoyable potboiler. I listened to the Librevox version, well read by Winston Tharp.
Boston Blackie in this book is certainly different than the movie character. But, still a good read where you keep wondering how Blackie is going to get out of each predicament.
Glad I read it. I remember Boston Blackie from when I was very young. Good to catch up to him.
loved this tale of post WWI cops and robbers..
Wrong or rightHonor among thieves. Is it morally right to break the law for good reasons? That's what I kept thinking throughout this book. Yes I routed for the hero, but wondered why he chose this life. Dystopia readers will see many parallels with this story.
Boston Blackie by Jack Boyle (New York: H.K. Fly Co., 1919)Jack Boyle was an ex-convict who wrote about a master thief.This book collects seven stories published in magazines from 1914 on.
Because it’s obsolete, BOSTON BLACKIE is worth a look.
Boyle’s Blackie hasn’t reformed.
But Boyle’s idea of human behavior is one lie after another—it’s inept  sentimentality, tone deaf melodrama.
No, you isn't Santy 'cause that on your face is a hanky, not beards.” The boy can’t sleep unless someone watches over him.
It's a bit dated, having been originally published in 1919; but it is a good read nonetheless.
Boston Blackie is a gentleman crook who lives by a straight code of life, which is good and honorable (but not necessarily lawful).
Even in the midst of the most difficult circumstances, Blackie is true to his code.
I would especially recommend it to Old Time Radio Mystery fans and those who enjoyed the Boston Blackie TV series back in the day.Originally published in 1919, it has recently been republished by MysteriousPress.com as an ebook.
Boston Blackie is presented as a larger-than-life criminal mastermind with a conscience, a modern era Robin Hood only without the giving to the poor part.
Blackie has a personal code of conduct that he follows to the letter, but in one of the stories he tricks a woman who is about to leave her husband into a reconciliation with same, but he suffers not a bit of remorse for lifting from her the heirloom jewels in her possession.
That being said, the stories are well written and entertaining.
It is a relatively short book and a quick read, and I feel is worth the time and effort.
Fanciful But Fun to Read Criminal Code of Honor NovelIn a world where imagination becomes reality, where a criminal code of honor exits, & where even black hearts beat with a measure of good stands the safe-cracker Boston Blackie a cut above Everyman, a genuine man's man. Crime story author Jack Boyle uses some sappy cops & robbers lingo in the narration to impart a sense of time & place—Frisco shortly the Great San Francisco Earthquake. Overall I found Boston Blackie a nice surprise. I enjoyed reading the book.
Picked up the book because I found the old radio show as a podcast on iTunes a year or so back and really enjoy it. Curious to see where the characters came from, I decided to read this. Unfortunately, the book is no where as good as it's descendents. Whereas the radio show features some good witty dialogue, the book is loaded with some almost painfully flowery dialogue. The book is a product of it's time, and unfortunately doesn't translate well into readability by today's standards.
It was okay.. A lot different from the old time radio program which followed this book. I liked the radio show more. This book jumps between story subplots continually; which can get confusing and annoying.I would recommend this to my sister as she is also a Boston Blackie fan, but to anyone else, you would need an appreciation for the Pulp genre of books.
What a find. Everything I love in my pulp crime fiction reading. Interesting characters, storytelling that keeps me turning the pages, and just plain fun.Boston Blakie has joined my "Rogue's Gallery" of lovable characters who operate outside the law, but I still love.
Originally published in 1919. A generally enjoyable read with a few unexpected twists in the plot. I chose to read this book as I remember seeing the Boston Blackie movie on TV sometime in the 50's or 60's. By the way Boston Blackie takes place in the San Francisco area. :)
He's A Swell GuyIn my teens I used to watch reruns of the 1950s series Boston Blackie a crook who helped people while trying to stay out of trouble with the police. This novel is the source for that tv series as well as movies and a radio drama in the 30s and 40s.
Kind of a fun read. It's cool to see a nice twist of a character avoiding both cops and crooks.
robin hood theme...hard boiled detective is former criminal helping poor folks with their problems. dated as was written nearly 100 years ago.
Very enjoyable book. A lot of old-fashioned terms and situations.
Had no idea what to expect. I enjoyed this journey of a professional criminal, the code of conduct so important to where that journey leads. It's not a book I would re-read, but I liked it.
This is an interesting historical mystery with engaging characters!
A series of interwoven stories. The best is probably the last line with Blackie in prison. I liked Blackie in these stories but I prefer the Blackie of the movies and radio.
