https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1858013.The_Reason_for_God
So I'll stick to one chapter.THE USUAL PROBLEM OF EVILFor me this is always the big one.TK says, in essence, If you can't figure out why there is evil and suffering, please don't conclude there is no reason.
But then he says that actuallyevil and suffering may be (if anything) evidence for GodI think it goes like this: the atheists believe in evolution and natural selection, a process which is amoral (lots of suffering and death involved).
Keller appears to think that if I accept evolution in all its implications then I accept human beings are part of that and are subject to its laws which are the bloody and merciless laws of natural selection.
Every objection I had is addressed by this book for my background AND it's done by showing God in Jesus, and Jesus crucified.When I became a Christian, 3 other books: the New Testament, The Case for Christ, and Desiring God were primary in my conversion.
The Case for Christ proves the Resurrection as a historical event.
The New Testament self-authenticates itself as God's Word and shines Jesus Christ out to the reader.
I imagine that Christians reading this book might find their own faith bolstered and deepened and so would recommend it to them, too.
Keller challenges non-Christians to doubt their doubts and recognize the unprove-able beliefs (faith) upon which their own relativist/humanist/etcist values rest.
It is this challenge that I value most from the book, as well as a stronger understanding of how a Christian might respond to some of my own doubts.
I am not interested right now in an intellectual debate about faith (like all of us, I've had those conversations) because right now I am just seeking understanding and connection.
The first half of his book, written for skeptics, is very soft on logical/rational arguments.
His response to evolution (a whopping two and a half pages), for example, is to say that if you pin him down, he believes in the process of evolution by natural selection, but that Christians must accept their faith first, and then move to evaluating foundation-shaking science only after they have positioned themselves beyond doubt.
Fine for believers, but he won't win converts from among rationalists with arguments like that.
Throughout the book, Mr. Keller applies a thick coat of scholar-like varnish, yet his logic is far from solid oak.
The introduction was great and I thought it was going to be a good read.
It's about 10 pages or so and I thought it was really well written.Then starts the doubts and questions he has received and his reasoning against them.
Another good point.
To me a lot of these made sense, and I was starting to like the organization of the book, I could see how it could almost be used as flowchart to convince a skeptic.
But then I started seeing repetitiveness, and then some outright flawed logic, and then even MORE flawed logic.
i read it because i would like to hear an intelligent plausible argument for the existence of God. I am sure there is one, but you won't find it in this book.
Well, if your neighbor accidentally ran into your wall and it wasn't covered by insurance, someone would have to pay for the damages.
So even if you forgave your neighbor, he'd still have to pay for the repairs.
Thus, God sent his son to pay for the damages of our sins, even though he forgave us.
The answer is for Him to know and for us to find out.
A Freshman in college taking a basic logic of philosophy class can see through all of the arguments from ignorance, appeals to authority, straw men, and slippery slopes.
If you are looking for more self satisfaction that the religion forced upon you by your parents known as Christianity is perfect, this book is for you.
Or if you are a Muslim, Jew, Buddhist, Atheist, Confucian, Native American or Central American looking for confirmation that Christians are simply myopic crusaders, then this book may be for you as well.
If you are a professor of philosophy and need illustrations of bad arguments for class, this book is for you.
To the unbeliever, Keller asks them to look into, and then treat with "doubt," the (what he calls) "faith assumptions" which under gird their objections, or doubts, to Christianity.
The strategy here is to point out that all the doubts rested upon claims that the unbeliever had not thought out thoroughly, or were dubious assumptions, or were self-refuting, or they required an argument otherwise lest deck of cards collapse.
For example, he has his unbeliever denying his argument (again, nothing like a robust argument was presented here, but that's not his purpose) from the uniformity of nature by saying, "We don't know why things are the way they are." But, non-Christians have given much more cogent reasons for their belief in the Uniformity of Nature than that!
Which is completely different than arguing for the existence of the Christian God. The second half of the book gives reasons to believe in God. This would be better addressed to evangelicals as Keller's "this is why I believe in God." A couple are somewhat compelling, and might have value to strengthen the faith of someone who is already a believer, but as any sort of proof or evidence, they are a poor apologetic.
Either way I shall stop this rambling on and cut to the conclusion of my review.This is a book written not just for those who don't believe or for Christians who want to challenge other people's beliefs like so many other books around.
It is a book for those who have doubts about what they believe in regards to the Church and God as well as those who are interested in knowing what Christianity true claims are.
In an age where few people want to have honest discussions about belief, preferring to forcefully express what is a correct opinion, this is a book that I respect for its honesty.
While this was the book that made Keller famous (or famouser), it was distinctly different from his other books all of which I love. It is much more an apologetic and reasoned argument than it is sermonic. Keller is a great thinker and follows in the footsteps of Christian intellectuals like C.S. Lewis. I appreciated his calm, measured, and reasonable tone and arguments throughout the book. He makes it easy for readers to process his ideas without being attacked or bombarded. A very good book.
xviii-xix:]While Keller admirably “rose to the level of disagreement” rather than simply denouncing, he failed to represent the other’s argument “in its strongest and most positive form.” As I read on, his comments reveal a misunderstanding about the non-religious/non-theistic which is every bit as unjust and misinformed as the misunderstandings about Christianity he is seeking to correct!This is the unjust representation that frustrates me most: He says that if you don't believe in God, you have no reason to do good.
His skillful speaking abilities and knowledge come from years of pastoral experience at a large Presbyterian Church in Manhattan.
His method of persuasion is gentle, pastoral, and a very "Socratic" approach.
What I liked about Keller's way of handling the questions of skeptics, is he is highly respectful in his treatment of people who do not have faith, but have questions.
The book deals with all the common questions skeptics ask like : "There can't just be one true religion, How could a good God allow suffering...," and more.I especially enjoyed the later part of the book and his beautiful explanation of the Trinity, titled appropriately, "The Dance of God."
Every time I tried to find something good in his arguments, some point that I hadn’t ever thought of before, more angry grey scrawls would grow across the pages.I initially thought he failed to understand the Atheist position clearly (given his choice of mostly straw men skeptical positions in the first half of the book), but I was mildly surpised that, when reaching the end of the book, he quite clearly understood the textual criticism of the gospel story.
Though, in counter point to that last bit, Keller apparently never really worked hard to understand the stronger arguments against religion.In an attempt to be brief, I’ll attempt to pick (more or less at random) the 3 largest problems with the book:#1.
The book is filled with anecdotes that draw out compassion and empathy from the reader, all the while equipping him to defend the faith, by formulating a solid theological and philosophical basis for the existence for God - our Beautiful Savior!In conclusion, this is a book that everyone should read - from the layperson, to the seeker; from the new Christian to the aged pastor; from the atheist to the Methodist.
"There can't just be one true religion." "How could a good God allow suffering?" "How can a loving God send people to hell?" "Science has disproved Christianity." "You can't take the Bible literally." If you have these sorts of questions, please please pick up this book.
I found this book resonated well with the New York City/urban audience it was written for, in the easy-to-read style of a conversation, and with ample research to use as a springboard to keep reading into.
It also gets to the heart of the matter behind the questions and statements above.
الكتاب شيق جدا ومفيد جدا فى الرد على افكار الملحدينخلاصة الكتاب ان اثبات وجود الله بالدليل القاطع غير ممكنالا ان مفاتيح ودلالات وجوده اكثر منطقية من دلائل النفىالعالم فى وجود اله اكثر منطقية وثبات منه فى حالة عدم وجودهالكتاب جمع اكثر الاسئلة المحيرة التى قد تدور فى اذهانالناس وحاول الاجابة عليها بالمنطق وليس بالايات او حتى الاثباتات العلمةكتاب مفيد جدا فى التحرك نحو وجه معينة ويكفى كبداية انصح الجميع بقرائته
Other writers might just stop with a basic, "Apostles Creed" faith, but it can best be said that Keller argues for an "Apostles Creed" plus faith, or fleshing out a more fuller faith; for example, he presents a great argument for what is known as the doctrine of penal substitution and the necessity of growing in an individual faith within a community of other believers (something sorely needed to be taught to believer and skeptic alike).The book is divided into two sections, the Leap of Doubt and the Reasons for Faith, with an intermediary chapter between.
The first section is an examination of what quite a few skeptics in this age presuppose, the second is a fresh appeal to traditional Christian faith.
While Keller does make some good points, flaws abound within his arguments, and he doesn’t dive anywhere nearly deep enough into apologetics to give adequate answers to these hard questions.
And he doesn’t even cite specific verses from Genesis 1 and 2 and contrast them with evolutionary theories.Basically Keller blatantly chooses to ignore the deep, foundational conflict between Creationism and Evolution, sweeping their very apparent irreconcilable differences under the rug.
Several thoughts.Keller's logical progression reminds me of a philosophy class.
The hard part is the same as always-the acceptance of Christ as the Messiah who rose from the dead.
I like the quote from U2's Bono which pretty much said Christ cannot be accepted as simply another prophet or a teacher, because He claimed to be the Messiah.
Since he made that claim, he is either the Messiah or he is a nutcase.
What makes it doubly difficult is that if one does accept it, you MUST change your life.
He produces evidence and corroboration of what the Bible says today as legitimate to what is presupposed to be the Word of God. More than this, Keller appeals to that center in all of us that we call a conscience.
Logic and reasoning dictates that if we accept a triune God then such a separation is impossible since the Creator is intimate with His creation.
For us believers practice of our faith becomes harder but not impossible in today's environment.
This way of thinking comes from those who won't accept the Bible as His Word.
A profound idea comes out of this book about judgment.
A fabulous work of apologetics.
I felt I owed it to my friend to read through the entire book but once I got to Chp 9, The Knowledge of God, where Keller, after his long discussion on morality and human rights, condescendingly proclaims: "If you insist on a secular view of the world and yet you continue to pronounce some things right and some things wrong, then I hope you see the deep disharmony between the world your intellect has devised and the real wold (and God) that your heart knows exist" I knew it was time to throw in the towel.
So I'll say this, if you are someone who has questions about Christianity, was raised Christian but have trouble coming to terms with the religion of your childhood, or have trouble coming to terms with the way the Christian church is represented by society (and people who claim to be delivering a Christian message), or if you are Christian but want to deepen the intellectual side of your faith, or are Christian and want to understand the questions and objections of non-Christian friends--then this book could be the one for you.
And even better, Keller can show you a list of other books and people to read when you're done.
This is the first book I've read in a long time, possibly even the first book ever, that is a well-reasoned, intellectually satisfying argument for the existence of God and his divinity in Jesus Christ.One of the things I like most about Keller's writing is that he comes across as a down-to-earth person who obviously has great respect and patience for people's questions.
Not having grown up a Christian, I have often had great difficulty relating to people who speak "Christianese" and justify faith using only the Bible, but Keller's arguments put God and Jesus in a rational, scientific, and historical context.
This is an excellent book that addresses many of the common objections to Christianity today.
First of all, Keller points out how common doubt is to the Christian faith and how so many people allow doubt to push them away from Christ.
He addresses tough objections such as “Jesus can’t be the only way to God.” The objection that “Christianity is too exclusive.” Or, “Christianity does not match up with modern science.” As well as many, many other common objections to Christianity.
A compelling apology for Christianity. Personal note: towards the end he had back to back quotes that gave me chills: from the beginning of Revelation 21 ("He will wipe away every tear from their eyes...") and from C.S. Lewis' The Last Battle ("I have come home at last! This is my real country! I belong here. This is the land I have been looking for all my life..."). That portion of Revelation was printed on the bulletin of my sister's funeral; and I included the Lewis quote in my eulogy.
Absolutely fantastic book! I am a big Keller fan, but this one is by far my favorite. When responding to cultural questions and concerns about God, Keller presents logical arguments, but he does so humbly and with love.
It doesn't make everyone conform to the same culture, but rather tries to restore everyone's relationship with God. He also points out that arguments for increased freedom fail because all positive human experiences (like love) require that we give up freedom in order to experience them.
He addresses many aspects of historical events, but it can be summed up by understanding that the church is "Not a museum for saints, but a hospital for sinners." He also points out that violence and bloodshed occurs with or without Christianity.*** His next chapter is on the issue of God sending people to hell.
First he points out the fact that our idea of a God of love accepting everyone regardless of behavior is culturally bound.
Kindle edition is $1.99 https://amzn.to/2qT6X9tApril 22, 2018
