https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/267243.Ironweed
Thanks to my father dumping them back on me, I now spend my spare time unearthing lost treasures from their plastic depths.Francis Phelan is living the romantic life of a hobo during the Great Depression.
He’s also trying to look out for his hobo girlfriend Helen and his buddy Rudy.
He’s got a kind of cheerful pragmatism despite the regrets he has.The story of Francis makes this worth checking out, and it’s certainly well written, but I’m a little shocked that it won a Pulitzer.
Pero todos sabemos que no es suficiente que el libro sea bueno, incluso muy bueno, para quedar le otorguemos 5 estrellas, tiene que tener algo más.Buscando información sobre el autor, encontré unas declaraciones atribuidas a García Márquez en las que este enumeraba los ingredientes imprescindibles para cocinar una buena novela: amor, humor, política, nostalgia, tristeza, vida, muerte.
No solo he gozado y me he emocionado con todos y cada uno de los ingredientes citados por el autor colombiano, sino que ha conseguido responder a cualesquiera de esas misteriosas e imprescindibles interrogaciones que culminan mi particular lista.
“Correre da una base all’altra dopo il colpo secco della mazza, scappar via dalle accuse, fuggire dalla calunnia degli uomini e delle donne, sottrarsi alla famiglia, ai legami, all’impoverimento dello spirito attraverso rafforzamenti rituali, e infine scappare alla ricerca di un’evasione fine a se stessa, portando a compimento un manierismo dello spirito”  Questo libro mi è piaciuto molto non perché abbia vinto il Pulitzer o perché ne sia stato tratto un film con Jack Nicholson e Meryl Streep (1987).
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “Katie bar the door. Too wet to plow.”  Okay, since I’m a robot that’s a bit of a fabrication. I did, however, get a little choked up and that’s pretty much as good as it gets when it comes to me bawling.Francis has spent his entire life running . . .  “Running bases after the crack of the bat, running from accusation, running from the calumny of men and women, running from family, from bondage, from destitution of spirit through ritu
I did, however, get a little choked up and that’s pretty much as good as it gets when it comes to me bawling.Francis has spent his entire life running .
The writing is some of the most beautiful I’ve ever seen (and when you’re dealing with nothing but horrifying and revolting situations, that’s a major feat to accomplish), but the middle killed it.
I felt the book went a little off the rails having a featured segment of Helen’s history (along with padding Francis’ tale even further).
This is a book that is filled with elaborate description and imagery that really made me feel like I was experiencing everything along with Francis .
He left his family.The novel is set in the late 1930’s and covers approximately two or three days of Francis’ return to his hometown of Albany where he finally attempts to reconcile with those living, all the while hounded by those who left this life either by his hand or in spite of it.
It is the pursuit by Francis’ past, and the beautiful prose Kennedy uses to describe the filthy things of transient life, that compel me to give it four stars rather than three or two.
But William Kennedy’s Pulitzer Prize-winning novel about a down-and-out ex-baseball player, Francis, who sees dead people and is dedicated to his own pain and a life spent running from it, and his cadre of drunks, including his girl Helen, a former musician, is so finely and freely well-written, sometimes funny, and authentic that I read it slowly with pleasure as well as pain.
. this drunk was not dead, not dying, but living an epilogue to a notable life.
The man was singing a song that had grown old not from time but from wear.
As she yielded her fresh body to her new husband out of obligation, Francis felt the iron maiden of induced chastity piercing her everywhere, tightening with the years until all sensuality was strangulated and her body was a bloodless and cold as a granite angel.” Wow, and that’s just part of one sentence!Once upon a time (1983 or 1984) when I lived in Louisville, KY I saw this book made into film with the popular Jack Nicholson and Meryl Streep.
So it was with fresh pleasure that I got to the point in this book where Francis actually gets up the nerve to visit the family he abandoned 22 years ago.
In fact, one of the major themes is summed up by Kennedy in the first extraordinarily beautiful paragraph of the book: “Riding up the winding road of Saint Agnes Cemetery in the back of the rattling old truck, Francis Phelan became aware that the dead, even more than the living, settled down in neighborhoods.
In fact, some of the major characters in the novel are dead.James Atlas has said that “his [Kennedy’s] cycle of Albany novels is one of the great resurrections of place in our literature.” I can’t help but agree.

Francis Phelan, a bum day laboring in an Albany cemetery, inadvertently stumbles upon his baby son's grave.
The same son who slipped through Francis' fingers years ago.
Six feet below, the child stirs and decides that Francis' path to redemption and self forgiveness is about to begin.
This begins the brilliantly written tale of Francis and his hobo girlfriend Helen.
They spend most of their time trying to find shelter, money, and drink.
But Francis' past is always calling.
Evocative imagery, poetic language, and a charming main character are the highlights of this Pulitzer winner.
Ironweed, William Kennedy عنوان: گل آفتابگردان؛ ویلیام کندی؛ مترجم: غلامحسین سالمی؛ تهران، نگاه، 1383؛ در 319 ص؛ شابک: 9789643511715؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی قرن 20 م
Some time ago, a man in our area took his little boy deer hunting on a cold winter morning.
How could you resume your life as a responsible, contributing adult after something like that?That is the feeling tone of “Ironweed.” It is a dark, dirty, sordid and sad story.
Still, Fran shows some hope for a more normal life in the face of acceptance and love from the family he abandoned 22 years earlier.
Nevertheless, the book ends with us having reason to hope that Francis at last finds a modicum of peace within the shelter of his family’s love.
I made a decision a few weeks ago that I would read all the Pulitzer Prize winners for fiction, beginning in the year I was born (1984) and continuing through the present.
Ironweed, as you may have figured out, was the 1984 winner.In it, Kennedy tells the story of a bum who was once a well liked ball-player and family man but lost everything as a result of a series of accidents and poor decisions.
This novel is tragic, humorous, gritty and hopeful at turns, but accomodates all of these contradictions gracefully, because Kennedy is incredibly adept at giving the reader a lens through which to understand each and every perspective he offers.
This Pulitzer Prize winning novel is just like a Tom Waits song. The prose is lovely and the characters are down and out. It is the story of Francis Phelan, an alcoholic bum who returns to his hometown, Albany, in 1938. There he meets up with his companion of many years, Helen, another alcoholic drifter. In Albany, Francis ends up confronting the ghosts of his past, his guilt, remorse, and sorrow. Kennedy gives Francis and Helen's brokenness a warmth and beauty completely free of judgement and sentimentality.
Finished: 27.04.2018Genre: novelRating: BTheme: Redemption: The ghost of Francis’ infant son tells his father that hemust perform acts (of kindness) to exorcise his demons.#ClassicPulitzer Prize Fiction 1984 Review
I first read Ironweed over 30 years ago; I'm glad I read it again with more years under my belt--because age has allowed me to understand and possibly empathize with Francis, the damaged protagonist of this gritty novel. The Depression-era setting is bleak and squalid. Francis lives violently. He sees ghosts from his past. He goes home. He takes care of Helen. But does he forgive himself for the accident that killed his infant son? The ethereal brutality of Kennedy's novel is striking--a precursor to Lincoln in the Bardo, perhaps.
That's what's missing.I got all excited in the first few pages when ghosts of the bum's victims show up; I thought maybe the author was going to do something different, a little unexpected magical realism to liven up a bleak depression story.
But the bum just argues with the ghosts about why he was justified in killing them, he does a little self-examination, a bit of introspection, admits he's a loser and guilt is all he has left, but it rings too hollow, like he's really just excusing his horrible life.
Was the author trying to humanize the bum with this obvious revelation?
Sometimes, I think that people in the English profession actually hate books, or at least love to hate them.
I'm so tired of that with books, so many people act like they are dissecting a frog when the review these books, there is no passion and I find that disheartening.
It feels great to love a book!
It just gets me excited, not only to read again, but to write again, and to breath again, the dissections have been stifling me.
If you are reading this review, read that line again, isn’t it wonderful???
Hope y’all find the time to read this and thanks Ryan, you are a great friend.
I think i must be somewhat of a snob however, I just dont enjoy reading about down and outs and people at the end of the road, with no light at the end of the tunnel.
It will make me think twice about the homeless people I come across in the city.
If you want a book that makes you think, tick off another prize winner, with some great writing and learn about the seedier side of life, you could well enjoy this, I notice many people have and its highly rated.
entonces debe enfrentarse a los fantasmas de su pasado.¿Cómo piensan, sienten y viven los que viven en los subsuelos de la pirámide social?
Narrada en tercera persona, Tallo de Hierro invita al lector a dar un paseo con Francis Phelan y sus amigos vagabundos por las alcantarillas de la América de entre guerras, a compartir sus recuerdos y alucinaciones, y a asomarnos un rato a esas muertes que parecen no importar demasiado.
Una gran novela, bien escrita, poética y, sobre todo, alejada del golpe bajo efectista que podría esperarse dada su temática.
Traducción muy aceptable, como todo lo que traduce "Libros del Asteroide".
When I was a kid, I used to see the ironweed blooming along the creeks and edges of fields.
Many years later, I saw a novel by the same name had won the Pulitzer Prize.
Francis dropped his baby boy Gerald on his head and killed him twenty-two years ago, and left home in great sorrow and regret.
While not the happiest novel to read, Ironweed's prose has a blue-collar lyricism to it I liked.
Plus, Francis seems to be a good-hearted soul, and I rooted for him to overcome his grief.
Ironweed is a short, often humorous book that clips right along.
The novel is almost picaresque.
There were some really beautiful lines here and there.
I loved the juxtaposition of those words with the world of "the bum": anything but beautiful.
There is a lot of juxtaposition in this novel and that's probably why I enjoyed it so much.
It's hard to pull off a novel that can be funny, depressing, hopeful, horrifying, bittersweet, poetic, and realistic without ending up a mess.
Ultimately, it is a "sad" novel--we are talking about the life of an alcoholic "bum" after all--but if you look deeper than the sum of its parts, there are some really lovely examinations of the human condition, bum or not.
Ironweed ReviewIronweed is the story of Francis Phelan, a homeless man trying to survive on the streets of the American city of Albany during the Great Depression.
Memories of three other men Francis killed during his life take on a physical reality.
A lot of the book consists of rambling conversations between Francis and other people around him, whether they are visions of dead men, or the people with whom he shares the street.
At the end of the book, Francis finally talks about that crucial episode in his life when he dropped his son.
"Finally we sold our blood and drank the money."Jesus. Katie bar the door. Reading this was like chain smoking three packs of Camels, passing out drunk and waking up to nightmare memories and cold coffee spiked with dead dandelions and pea gravel. Pretty. Fucking. Gritty.
Stunning. Absorbing. Heartbreaking. Easily the best novel I've read in years. Each book in Kennedy's Albany Trilogy is worth your attention but the final novel, Ironweed, is the tour de force that will leave you at once thoughtful, enriched, and somber. Guess them Pulitzer Prize folks know their game, alright.
A clock doesn't tick faster or slower, even when the most unusual person is wearing it, and Kennedy knows and supports this notion throughout the book.
At first glance this epiphany-free book might alienate readers.
Because he has nothing much to lose, Francis Phelan's soul-searching is especially powerful.
Kennedy is a cliché killer, his language is unusual and nearly poetic, and I recommend this book to anyone searching for a tale of short-cut free redemption.
Or just looking for a very good book.
It is a powerful book with a powerful message, kind of a "live and let live" philosophy in that I, Francis Phelan, have fucked up my life royally and all I have is my grief, so don't take that away from me.
It is a very sad story as well, with portions of poignancy that make you want to grab Francis and tell him that his family is forgiving him.
Francis, listen to them, they want you back.
John Steinbeck said that "No man really knows about other human beings.
But you dear reader, would probably do the same things that Francis did.
He's spent his life running from his problems, but remains likable.
He's taken lives, including his son's through an accident, he's shirked his responsibilities with his family by abandoning them, and he's ran away from his problems instead of facing them head on.
He's exchanged all of that for a life of poverty, cold, hunger, and loneliness.
We also see that he has no illusions as to his guilt and his place in how his life has turned out.
This is a short but powerful look into a life damaged by guilt and remorse and the consequences of our actions and the desire to return home.
And that isn't helped by Kennedy, who is a very gifted prose stylist, but just can't seem to settle on what style or perspective he's going to tackle these people's misery from.
That kind of bouncing around isn't necessarily a bad thing (hell, Malcolm Lowry makes it work great), but it seems like he's just trying to attack everything from every direction at once, which is too bad because when he does linger long enough on a single point of view he creates some really beautiful passages.
If you're desperate to find out what it feels like to be a destitute Irish American living in depression-era Albany, go for it.
Damn I loved the dialogue in this book.
The prose was overstated for a bum book, but I grew to love it too.
In fact, sometimes when reading this the mental, physical, and spiritual suffering of the characters was unbearable, it really hurt - but then it is completely compensated by joy a few pages later when an insight is made or an emotion is described perfectly.
At one point, near the end, the main character comes to the realizaton that his guilt is his life's greatest accomplishment, or more so his duty.
That sounds depressing, but I felt a lift in my spirit the way it was described.
