https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52184.The_Marx_Engels_Reader
Recently had a conversation with this older woman in Berkeley. I told her Marx was making a comeback among people my age and younger. She was frankly incredulous, that just couldn't be right, she thought. Marx? the youngs these days are reading Marx?Yes, lady, believe it. We're reading Marx. Why wouldn't we be?
Marx' political thought is sometimes difficult (think the "Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts of 1844") and sometimes transparent (e.g., "The Manifesto of the Communist Party," more popularly referred to as the "Communist Manifesto").
The volume begins with the early Marx, which includes the "Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts of 1844," excerpts from "The Holy Family" (in which he attacks some of the other socialists of the era), "Theses on Feuerbach," and the first of the truly classic works that Marx and Engels co-authored, "The German Ideology." It is interesting to note that "The German Ideology" covers much the same territory as "The Holy Family," with the major exception that Marx now addresses the intriguing and offbeat work by Max Stirner, "The Ego and His Own." In the process of addressing Stirner, Marx and Engels take the philosophical edifice to a more powerful level, creating a new perspective with a move away from idealism and toward materialism.
This reader is the perfect introduction to Marxism, thoroughly presenting the backdrop and progression of Marxist thought throughout the years, ranging from Marx's thoughts on Hegel and Feuerbach to his lectures, letters and refutations. The last third of the book is rightfully dedicated to Engels' contributions, including his groundbreaking thoughts on the origins of family.It is as great an achievement in intellectual thought as it is an achievement in editing.
Especially for a historian, Marx's materialist conception of history is so influential, so pervasive, so inescapable, that there is really no excuse for never reading the man's work.
This is me, reading Marx.
Where is the nearest cookie to me)...for a year, Feuerbach would not only find an enormous change in the natural world, but would very soon find...(do snickerdoodles have almond in them?
I'll bet if I had one right now, I would be able to detect subtle notes of almond.
In the summer of 2001, I took a socialist history class. Summer school classes are unrelenting in the amount of reading needing to be done. I have clear memories of coming straight home after class, swimming through the thick humidity of North Carolina, and proceeding to spend the afternoon, evening, and night reading Marx. Class struggle. Dialect materialism. Proletarian revolution.
Blah blah blah blah Marx blah commodity blah
A satisfactory selection from Marx-Engels literature. This book definitely does give you an overall understanding of Marxist views, which has a longstanding repercussions even today, 150 or so years after. I can't give it 5-stars only because this book is merely a selection of original scripts and does contain little commentary from its author.
Couldn't recommend this more. Was so engrossed in Marx and Engels that I neglected to reply to emails etc., so when I got to the end, my girlfriend abandoned me. Hope she returns.
The range of writings included in here is great, spanning form early Marx to later Engels and hitting upon social, economic, and revolutionary theory.
I find it irritating that some of Marx and Engel's most important works are abridged, as if an additional 20 pages here and here would be too much for an 850 page book.
Perhaps this is just a general problem I have with anthologies and readers...It's humorous that in one of Engel's letters included in here, written near the end of the 19th century, he criticizes those who see his and Marx's works as only focusing on economic issues, due to not reading into the nuance.
An indispensable guide to the absolute bois. This was published back in the 70s when many texts written by Marx and Engels were yet to be published or read in the US. It combines what Tucker thinks are the most important texts of the authors, in mostly chronological order/the order of Marx discovering what he was on about. It includes the full texts of several of his manuscripts and the Communist Manifesto, as well as portions of others, and collects portions of the vols. of Capital. It also, of course, includes some of Engels' seminal writings. A great reader.
I've found that Fredrick Engels has been lost under the tidal wave cast by Marx, even though the former helped keep Marx on his feet and was more a collaborator than some second fiddle. This is a bit more clear in this collection, where tone and tints of the ideas behind Marxist theory are different than in works written exclusively by Marx. Some of the pieces are repetitive.
Religion is the sigh of the oppressed creature, the heart of a heartless world, and the soul of soulless conditions. It is the opium of the people.marxmarx were wrong.Unfortunately,in today's opium are nationalism,football and popular culture.
Important. Boring. Watch this instead. (Animation makes everything better.)
Marx changed the way I think. I'm less enamored of him as I grow older (anyone claiming to have the key to history should be locked in a padded cell), but still amazing stuff.
The one complaint, then, that I do have with the form of the book is that Engels is given so little space, when he is truly the better writer in regards to clarity and understandability of Marx's own ideas.And while I'm not about to delineate all my qualms with Marxism, I will say that I fundamentally disagree with many of the conclusions Marx draws from his important findings.
Taken as a complete ideology and political movement, however, I find Marxism to be irrevocably flawed in its analysis of the necessary transition from capitalism to socialism and ultimately communism, its 'discovery' of 'historical laws,' it's view of 'human nature,' and various other dogmas.If a person really wants the clearest picture of Marxism, I would suggest reading Engels' work rather than Marx's own.
Provide a broad overview of Marxian philosophy and context?
Then there are long sections where one can feel lost.
I found the entire last half of the book devoted to communist revolution especially unhelpful in understanding Marxian principles and philosophy.
Wolff's 8 hour lecture series on the introduction to Marxian economics than I got out of this book.
Marxian economics soon.
It's called the Marx-Engels Reader which implies that it is broad and condensed.
This book is presented as something that is accessible to someone who is just developing an interest in what Marx and Engels have to say.
It's that simple, because Marx, a German living in England at the height of the Industrial Revolution saw the consequences of unbridled capitalism on helpless workers first hand.
Much has happened in government and economic philosophy since then, but it was Marx that laid the foundation for all political discourse to follow.
Marx believed the workers should own the means of production, and, seeing no way for that to happen in 19th century England, he advocated violent overthrow of the capitalist system.
Look at the headlines of the recent election cycle and you'll see Karl Marx in nearly every one.
This is one of two collections of the Red Beard's work I have used, the other being David McLellan's Karl Marx: Selected Writings.
Furthermore, unlike the other collection, this volume contains a number of valuable selections from Engels' work including "The Origins of the Family" and "Socialism: Utopian and Scientific", as well as a generous offering of Marx's later texts including some of his interventions in the First International.One remark on the content.
Obviously it is impossible to intelligently review all of the essential works of Marx and Engels on Goodreads.
Tucker restates plainly but effectively that given the division of labor between capitalist and worker, exploitative behavior by the capitalist is logical and not at all 'unjust' by virtue of applying some outside moral criteria to condemn it.
Tucker simply reiterates Marx's contention that when a capitalist has purchased a worker's labor he also has purchased and gets use of his 'surplus' as well.
At the going rate this is as inevitable, natural and logical as could be, given the rewards built into selling human labor on the market like any other commodity.
Modes of Production, alienated labor, surplus value... I loved reading this book. It really demonstrated the intelligence of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels. I would go on to say that I don't agree with every single thing in the book... but I feel that has already been overstated about the man and his intelligence. This is an incredible read for anyone with an open mind and a dictionary. Disclaimer: do not just read the Communist Manifesto! It is oversimplified and will mislead you into thinking that you understand Marx.
I do not sympathize with the communist political ideology, but I was fascinated by the arguments Marx/Engels made for the dialectic development of history. It certainly gave me a lot to think about and I think that it was a fair assessment. This compilation of their works is excellent, and I recommend it to anyone who wants to know more about Marxist thought. Everything you need to read is in this book.
It's packed and the editor gives a bit of historical context for each of the selections, many of which constitute the complete text of the work from which they're taken. It includes a big chunk of Capital, vol. 1, for example. You also get the German Ideology and the Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts for 1844, so that you can see how M's analysis of political economy grows more nuanced as he learned more history and economics.
Really nice comprehensive text for someone wanting to understand Marx. Will teach you that you do not like Engels (at least it did me).I appreciated it laid out the context of the pieces, and included background work in some places for ideas that would spring up later. Much easier to follow Marx's line of thinking than just relying on the Manifesto.
I think Robert C. Tucker passed recently. Not in any way the best anthology but it's one that's on the most syllabi across the country's universities. Nevertheless, the feeling of reading Marx for the first time is indescribable. Can't help but to yell, "YES!" at the page incessantly. Too bad "Marx" is a four-letter word in this country.
If you are seriously interested in history or economics, but you don't have time to take university classes or read all of Capital, this is a fabulous work. Having read large sections of Capital in my twenties, i feel that Tucker's editing and notes make Marx's study and insight comprehensible without diluting or fluffing it up.
I am so glad to be done with this book. It was a monster to read not just because the language and ideas were convoluted and difficult but because they're just plain wrong! In addition, I am horrified, every day, to see how influential his insane thinking is in our country. He is full of anger, envy, vengeance and recommends violence. An evil man.
Read, read, read and read again. I suggest picking this book up and giving it another look every four years as each Presidential campaign comes and goes. Especially when it comes to the topic of the economy??? Huuummmm ??? Is there really a true democracy?
Really,  really  not an advocate of communism in theory or practice, but was an interesting read. I did appreciate Engels's thought processes about industrialization forcing people into beyond horrible slum conditions and trying to bring about change so that didn't happen anymore.
A classic compilation of Marx's writing. Tucker can get a bit wordy at times, something that doesn't help the already mystic and often vague english that has been created from translating Marx from german. However, his commentary is sometimes very helpful.
Good to know what the opposition thinks. Can't agree with the idea of individual agency being cast aside. Also the idea that all of history is class struggle is too simplistic for me. People are occasionally motivated by things other than money.
