https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17836100-the-carpet-people
If Terry Pratchett's writing could be said to have an over-arching message, it is this:1. There are better ways to do things than hitting people over the head.2. Other people are still people, no matter how different their culture; we should respect them.His agenda of peaceful toleration is more explicit in this early novel than in most (the first point above is almost a literal quotation from The Carpet People), but has formed the serious content of almost everything he has written.
I've loved since I first read it 15 years ago.
I love it for the way it tickled my imagination with the wonderful idea of entire civilisations living in the carpet.
I love it for the standard fantasy adventure story that it is at its core but told in such a way and such a world that even I didn't yawn at the constant walking from one place to another of it all.
I love the introduction from the master storyteller slightly embarrassed by his early efforts yet not too big to realise the mistakes he made and fix some of them.
The Carpet People is one of those novels that would read like imitation Terry Pratchett if it were not, in fact, written by Terry Pratchett.
The carpet metaphor is cute, and the descriptions of threads and what lies below the floor and, especially, the use of fray as a negative force in the world is appealing enough, but there's no compelling reason to have used it.In short, it's a cute story, but unless you're a Pratchett completionist, you could easily skip this short novel without feeling badly about it.
This is the book which started me on the steady path to reading science fiction.
This is the original version of the book written by the then 17 year old Terry Pratchett and not the edition re-written by him when he was 43.
This is the one I found in the children’s section of the Couper Institute Library and then had to get a copy of my own in 1979 when it was then out of print.
I still have the treasured hardback copy in my library and re-read only 2 years ago.
The imagination of creating a tiny race of people that live in the deepest, darkest parts of a carpet is wonderful, but as with a lot of fantasy I had trouble with getting behind the mix of Real-World terms and Made-Up-World terms.
Most fantasy places have some form of cow or horse and a lot of fantasy books will make up a new word for this animal, even though it's obviously a cow or a horse, because what you're actually reading is a (use your imagination) translation of this story from it's original language (the Made-Up-World language) in to English.
http://bookslifewine.com/r-the-carpet...This one was pretty adorable. I decided to buy a copy of The Carpet People after completing  Dragons at Crumbling Castle  and the passing of Sir Pratchett (they happened at roughly the same time). Dragons at Crumbling Castle was simply adorable (recommended for young readers!) and I was very interested to see what changes were made when Sir Pratchett revised, fleshed out and (re) published The Carpet People which was initially written when he was 17 years
http://bookslifewine.com/r-the-carpet...This one was pretty adorable.
Dragons at Crumbling Castle was simply adorable (recommended for young readers!) and I was very interested to see what changes were made when Sir Pratchett revised, fleshed out and (re) published The Carpet People which was initially written when he was 17 years old.The Carpet People tells the story of the Munrong tribe as they try to locate a new home after their home was destroyed by Fray.
As Sir Pratchett was barely out of childhood when this was originally written, I would love to see where the changes were made (from originally published manuscript to the final re-publish).
Read the rest here: http://bookslifewine.com/r-the-carpet...
this book reminded me why I read, fundamentally.
I read for fun, not to analyse or to be critical for goodreads.
And this is one of those books that I can't find anything to complain about, because...
I would have missed the humour and been like this reading itRather than being like this But suffice to say this book was HILARIOUS!
the characters were brilliantly fun, and larger than life and made me roll on the floor laughing MORE than a couple of times.
I tore through this book in a flash, and was begging for more hilarity even after the final page.
It's not supposed to have an elaborate plot full of twists, it's not perfect, but that's it's charm.It has many funny moments in it and quite frankly, if you find it confusing you're either skim reading and so not doing justice or you missed an import stage of your development in reading.There are two reasons why I think this book is fantastic and neither of them is that it was written by my favourite author of all time.The first is, like many, it was an important book in my life.
I was a young teenager when I first read The Carpet People.
It’s a fantastically imaginative, funny tale, and it has some characters in it that are cherished by me to this day.
I’ve heard people complain that the book isn’t up to Terry Prachett’s Discworld standards.
There might be a few little problems with the flow of the narrative, (occasionally you are told things, important things, before they've even been shown), but on the whole I have to disagree with the critics of the book.
Maybe I’m being sentimental and nostalgic, but it’s one of my favourite stories.
Не била оригинална, била прототип, била не знам какво си...Самия факт, че Пратчет е измислил цяла една приказка за един проклет килим още на 17 е...
Разбира се, не знам какъв е бил оригиналния текст, но поне преработеното издание е една чудесна история.Да, вярно е - много от героите са пресъздадени в Света на Диска.
И идеята за плоския свят и прочие - да, и това го има.
Но въпреки това идеята е просто адски добра.И добре, че аз се отказах от моя килим...
щеше да ми е много трудно да го гледам по този нов начин след тази книга xD
Ok, as you can tell this book was a little disappointing. I was told that this book should start me off and make it easier when I get to start the Discworld series. I found that, with this book at least that Terry Pratchett's plot didn't make much sense. The simplicity of the writing makes sense, as it is a children's book. Though as a whole I found this book and Terry Pratchett so far to be disappointing. I wanted to love the book, but unfortunately I didn't. I can only give this a 2 star review.
I was a bit trepidatious about this book, mostly because I read the Carpet People short stories in 'Crumbling Castle' and wasn't that wowed.
a sort of collaborative effort, as Sir Terry puts it, between his 17 year-old self and his 43 year-old self.All that said - it was much better than the short stories, and has glimmers of Pratchett as we know and love him, complete with his poignant penny-drops and biting satire delivered as only he can.As you might guess from the rating, it's not my favorite Pratchett work ever, but it's a decent read and a good addition to his rather large compendium.
And it's also a fun read.It's interesting, having read the short stories beforehand, to see the sparks of those in this novel...
I'll give it 4.999 for philosophical reasons. Wise people insist that there's always room for improvement.Heh. Well. Maybe. This book's pretty much perfect.This your average swords and horses and kingdoms under siege story and yet it  isn't  your average swords and horses and kingdoms under siege story.It's all in the delivery. Just like a great actor can bring a staid piece, a done-to-death act alive, Terry Pratchett charms not just with his plot but the characters running around in it, giving
I'll give it 4.999 for philosophical reasons.
Wise people insist that there's always room for improvement.Heh. Well.
Maybe.
This book's pretty much perfect.This your average swords and horses and kingdoms under siege story and yet it 
isn't
your average swords and horses and kingdoms under siege story.It's all in the delivery.
Just like a great actor can bring a staid piece, a done-to-death act alive, Terry Pratchett charms not just with his plot but the characters running around in it, giving evidence of his immense genius.
He makes it simple and he makes it beautiful.It's your average swords and horses and kingdoms under siege story, and it's perfect.
Sir Pterry's first published novel, as revised when he was in his forties.The cutesy worldbuilding of a world among the Carpet does have its problems when you are telling a tale of conquest and empire -- even as revised.But we have the tribes and Counting, the notion of money, pones that hang out when things look interesting, wights that remember everything that has happened and will happen to them, an under-Carpet passageway, a whiney emperor, and much more.
The Carpet People is the first story Terry Pratchett published, and he was only seventeen years old.
Some years ago, after he had written a lot more books, he took another look at this book and revised it.
I read the revised edition.The Carpet People is the story of a group of tiny people live in the carpet and who have had their village destroyed by the mysterious natural force of Fray (also known as sweeping).
Along the way, in classic Terry Pratchett style, the people have clever and silly philosophical discussions.
I liked Terry Pratchett’s first book way more than I expected. The idea of people living in the carpet is simply delightful. I loved the colorful hairs and dust, the snargs, the pones, the adventures. There are clearly two Pratchett’s at work, and often I can see who wrote what. The story is all over the place but the imagination and the witty observations are vintage Pratchett. And Sir Terry’s own illustrations are a special treat!
I enjoyed this early (and revised) story from Pratchett, it was a fun adventure, with some of his trademark observations on life and wit worked in throughout. I also enjoyed the story included at the end as he first wrote it in serial form at 17 for the local paper. It’s great to see his early work and developing voice, that we know grows into such a great writer in years to come.
I wasn't massivally looking forward to this. I acquired it before I'd actually read any Pratchett, a time when I figured I would really like him. Turns out I was completely wrong about that and only find his books okay.  The Carpet People was a surprise though as found myself enjoying it, although it's nothing outstanding. Pretty quick read.
Some are large, some are diminutive, some have glowing eyes, some are unseen, some may be monsters, some can see the future and the past, and some may simply be “the true human beings”, if there are such things.I think a reluctant reader might need adult guidance with the printed word and the cartoon like drawings, since even I had some issues with parts of the tale that seemed confusing, with too many strange names and places coupled with some pretty odd explanations, but all readers will learn about behavior, without even realizing they are doing so.
I can't remember when I first picked up a Discworld book but I was in love immediately and have eagerly awaited every single one.
Simply plots and themes but there are signs and glimpses of the genius to come.
It was a fun, quick, enjoyable read and I can't believe I took so long to get around to it, although while incredibly sad there will only be one more book coming out at least there are still some more I have yet to read.
Thanks to reading Terry Pratchett's first novel, I'll never look at vacuuming the rug the same way again. You also have to love a story that contains a character named "Pismire". That's what my grandmother called her grandchildren when she was vexed with them. I carry on that tradition. So the carpet is large, frayed, has underlament and now I know little people live there. You have to laugh at the possibility.
A funny first novel! You can tell Terry was still cutting teeth with this one though, even with the rewrite. However you can see little glimmers of his blossoming wit coming through. Also this book would have worked without Chapters just like his discworld books, but he was probably restricted by the publishers just like he was with the Tiffany Aching series.
Le stelle sarebbero 3 e mezzo, ma solo il nome "Terry Pratchett" ne vale una, quindi..."Il Popolo del Tappeto", una storia scritta da due autori, uno 17enne e l'altro 43enne.
Ebbene sì, ci troviamo davanti al primo libro scritto da uno dei miei autori preferiti, dato alle stampe negli anni '70, e poi aggiustato e riproposto negli anni '90, quando tutti chiedevano a gran voce la prima opera dell'autore del Mondo Disco.In Italia ovviamente questo libro non si trova più, in lingua originale si trova addirittura l'edizione con i disegni originali dell'autore.
I soldati sì, ma non sono la cosa che salta più all'occhio nella copertina.Ma torniamo alla storia: il titolo non è una metafora, tutto accade all'interno...
It’s about different forms of society, their pros and cons and a lot of advice for our own lived could be plucked from the pages.The characters were all wonderfully quirky and mostly lovable and following their journey through the carpet was interesting and captivating at all times.I can only say that this book was a surprise favourite for me, since I really did not expect to find so much depth in a little fantasy story with an absurd sounding premise, that was originally thought up by a 17 year old boy.
"And growing on the apple-green fluff that draped itself in thick festoons high above were flowers, fluff flowers, bigger than a man, with petals that glittered in a thousand shades of green from deep olive to cool yellow, that gave out a scent that filled the glades and tasted like the colour of green." p150One town mines a copper penny, another tops a speck of grit, four races run ahead of squashing disaster Fay and the evil mouls who attack after.
"Every time someone hands over or accepts one of these coins, it's a little soldier defending the empire." p190 We grow from village hunters to Empire warriors.
Terry Pratchett's first novel, written when he was very young indeed and then revised somewhat for a new edition after he had achieved writing fame.
I read this book with my 9-year old who got hooked on the Carpet People in a short story from the collection Dragons at Crumbling Castle: And Other Stories.
(Our favourite story from that collection of what can only be called Pratchett's Juvenalia, as he was only 17 at the time of writing.) We both thoroughly enjoyed the full length book as well.
reviews.metaphorosis.com 2.5 starsThe Munrung tribe, forced out of their village by the devastation of Fray, followed by a wave of snarg attacks, try to make their way through the Carpet to the capital.
It also has quite a few very funny bits as Snibril and crew bumble around trying to escape Fray, snargs, and other evils.The book is amusing on its own, but mostly of interest to Pratchett aficionados.
The novel is much more interesting to read, but it's worth reading both to see not only the evolution of Pratchett's story, but the seeds of the later, more accomplished writer.I got my copy for a couple of dollars, and that's what I recommend you spend.
S. edition of this published in 2013.The story centers on a tribe of very tiny people who live in a carpet in which the carpet hairs seem to them to be giant trees.They call themselves the Munrungs which means The People, or The True Human Beings.
The Munrungs are pretty primitive by our standards, though there are cities and even an empire in the carpet.In an author's note Pratchett says he is inclined to think that the real concerns of fantasy ought to be about not having battles, and doing without kings, though there are battles and kings in this novel.
This book is a great read for Terry Pratchett completionists, or for people who have enjoyed some of his writing and want a look at the place where it all began. 40-something-year-old Pratchett's editing is visible, and leaves the raw sections written by his younger self standing out in the cold. On the plus side, this book did a lot to encourage me to write a novel myself. If the seventeen-year-old who piled this crap together became Terry Pratchett, the sky's the limit.
This story was fun. The fantasy setting was a little forced and often confusing, and the commentary on wars and governments was a little heavy-handed, but it was still an enjoyable read. It had the expected Pratchett silliness and characters with ridiculous and fabulous philosophies.
