https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6604209-mistborn-trilogy-boxed-set
Series Review: Mistborn: The Final Empire:   5/5 stars  The Well of Ascension:   4.5/5 stars  The Hero of Ages:   5/5 stars  Mistborn trilogy:  14.5/15 stars You can find this and the rest of my reviews at Novel Notions
I don't think that I can write a full review of this right now considering that it took me about 8 months to read this series.
I can tell you that this is now at the top of my favorite books list.
The ending of the whole series which included the last 100 pages was AMAZING.
You connected all of the dots that had been brought up throughout the series and there was an unlikely hero and outcome of the book which you'll have to read to find out.
I will definitely have to re-read this wonderful series.
While the magic system in the Kingkiller Chronicle was so natural as to be totally believable, that of the Mistborn books seemed more like a clever contrivance.
So he takes care to first build up enough momentum and reader interest with setting and character before embarking on an exposition on how the magic works.Book 1 (The Final Empire) was still fairly tightly strung together, but in Book 2 (The Well of Ascension), we start to see the different threads of the story venturing out on their seemingly disparate ways.
But these subplots are opportunities for creating twists in the story, and Sanderson certainly uses them in unexpected but convincing ways.
the entire third book was exposition (like, i get that world building is a skill and that when you build a world you want to talk about it, but there was just way too much of, "well i know we're in the NOW but here is how GOT THERE HAHA" without there actually being anything happening in the now aside from people being sad and everyone fighting more or less identical battles all the time) and literally ends with "haha everyone is a god!
I actually read Way of Kings first, so coming back to Sanderson's earlier titles (although he supposedly writes them in different order as to how they were published), I found this series to be remarkably complex.
The trilogy is very dense in plot as Sanderson's cast of renegade heroes take on immortals, multiple armies and G-ds, but he manages to successfully avoid contrivances and cliches that would normally doom a story with such lofty goals.
What's really special about this series (and remarkable to me) is the way the author layers in so many threads of the individual characters into the ultimate reveal.
There are really no words that can do this trilogy Justice. I absolutely loved it!!! ♡
Have I ever mentioned that Brandon Sanderson is my favorite Fantasy writer?Remarkably this is currently $5.75 for the entire trilogy today 12/18/14. If you haven't picked up this series yet now is a great time.http://www.amazon.com/Mistborn-Trilog...
This series is simply one of the best fantasy books, if not the best ever!! It has everything:*Interesting magic system*Fantastic world building*Amazing character development*Brilliant plot*Attention grabbing romance*One hell of a unforgettable heroine.*A genius author who knows how to tie up loose ends, answer all questions and give the reader a satisfying conclusion.I've read it in 2011, so i think it is about time for a re-read. But this time on dramatic audiobook, where everything is brought to life like a movie!
It took me months to finish the first book; I really could not be interested enough in the totally 'cliched' scenario and plot!
The second book was a bit better, and the third book was the best, twisting and re-twisting the plot, so that it surprised me to the very end.Clearly though, the author aimed too high.
It either should have been one book only, or nine; the author touches on many interesting issues but explores none in depth.The overall feeling was of reading 'teenage' fantasy, e.g. Eragon and the like.I wouldn't recommend one spends the, necessarily long, time to read it; there's so many, much better, books available.
The Hero Of Ages. Now, this is why I read.-I did not like the outcome with Vin. But, I love when I find true treasures inside my big pile of books to be read.  5 Fantastic Fantasy Stars Reading this edition was hard, because the three books began to blur the lines, making this a mega read. That was the intent. And that is what this volume book delivered. 2448 pages later...I have no regrets.*melts in a puddle*
But, as an entire series, here are some of the highlights:1) The unique world that, from the very beginning, has a reason for what it is like that is gradually explained and expanded, but starts subtly enough that it simply seems like the world has always been this way.2) The chapter headings, which are revealing without giving away anything.3) The magic, which can do a lot and has many aspects, but never breaks the rules and is explained better and better over time.4) The characters.
I have never read a series quite like this, where, from the very beginning, the littlest details might be the bearers of the plot.
This is quite possibly the most well written "action fantasy" series I've ever read.
And that brings up the crowning glory of this series, the action.
Sanderson's magic system translate into action sequences that are unique, breath-taking, and resemble something of a combination of kung-fu highwire leaps and anime beat'em ups.
And because Sanderson takes the time to develop his characters you actually end up caring what happens to them during the action, lending a gravity to the scenes that doesn't normally happen in "action" books.
And finally, Sanderson has the equivalent of a "director's commentary" for each chapter of the entire series on his website (http://brandonsanderson.com/).
First book--really good!
Second book--well, not as good.
Uses "maladroit" way too many times (or was that book 1?) Apparently badass heroine from book 1 got together with the underdeveloped nobleman love interest from book 1.
But why do you keep telling me "Oh he's so good, he's a good person, he's the best" instead of, you know, showing that.
Also stupid was the love plot, wherein both Vin and Elend were convinced that they weren't good enough for the other.
YAWN.Third book--Did I say stupid?
It was AWESOME that the badass heroine could do something that the hero couldn't do.
Finally finished The second book of this three part trilogy and was a bit disappointed.
The characters have yet to attract me and the story line is a bit too predictable.
While there are some interesting parts to this second book most of the time I found myself skimming parts.What really kinda bothered me most was how many times Sanderson repeated the same thing over and over very often in this book.
About how the main character does or knows this how this works because of so and so.
before the end."Today, men, I ask you your lives.""I ask of you your lives and your courage.
But I will say this........."Each moment you fight is a gift to those in this cavern.
Each second we fight is a second longer that thousands of people can draw breath.
It is a person protected for a moment longer, a life extended, an enemy frusturated!" There was a brief pause.
"In the end they shall kill us.
But first they shall fear us!” ― Brandon Sanderson, The Hero of AgesThis is the god forsaken gloriouness at the end the series awaiting you the reader.
My all time new favorite fantasy series.
And I’ve got to say, one of the really great things about this series is that, each book – although following a storyline that evolves with each new installment – stands on its own, and has its own story that wraps up at the end.
At first, I was a little confused with the descriptions of the metals system and all the pushing and pulling, but eventually it clicked and I could get really involved with the story, and I thought it was a really unique, masterful system.And finally, the characters are just beautiful and they will all steal your heart.
There is a beautiful love story in there, and there is heartbreak too, and it’s all depicted so vividly that you really get attached to these characters.
I figured I'd give Sanderson a try, but his main fantasy didn't appeal and the concept of Mistborn seemed interesting.I'm glad I bought it as the full trilogy, because if I'd only purchased the first, I would have been so annoyed at the end that I wouldn't have bought the second...and if I'd bought the first two I would've been too bored at the end to buy the third.
However, everything was resolved in a really interesting way by the end of the trilogy.
I'm reading the Mistborn trilogy as a set, and I'll review each book.Final EmpirePlot SummaryThe Lord Ruler continues his centuries long reign over a feudal-like society.
I think I don't have a good idea of what the city of Luthadel actually looks and feels like through descriptions?My Thoughts on the EndingThe destruction of the battle and Vin's choice seemed fitting for the ending of a middle book of a trilogy.
Take this whole series, cut the pages down by 60%, tighten the plot, leave some of the world-building as a mystery, and I would have enjoyed this more.My Thoughts on the Ending(view spoiler)[I didn't care much about the characters at the end.
Read the review on my blog here: https://arknovel.blogspot.com/2017/12...********The Skinny: At the end of the day, there are better fantasy stories out there than Mistborn—probably from Sanderson himself.Full Review********Where Mistborn Succeeds: WorldbuildingMistborn’s greatest asset is its worldbuilding.
Not only is this fact implied because of Marsh’s abilities themselves, but the same comparison is made earlier in the same book from the perspective of another character.Sanderson’s reasoning for this is likely well-intended: his worldbuilding concepts are big and well-developed.
With more compelling characters and better prose, Mistborn could have been a powerhouse series that capitalized on Brandon Sanderson’s dense, imaginative mythopoeia.
I've heard lots of good about Brandon Sanderson's fantasy novels.
Having read his books that completed Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time series, and liking how he wrapped it up, I thought I'd check out his original works.
This series did not disappoint.
If anything, it exceeded expectations.
His stories are definitely page-turners with interesting characters.
I appreciate the way he weaves discussions of religion into his world - people tend to be religious so this sharpens his world.
He also consistently overturns the readers expectations, offering surprises along the way.
Overall, a fun series and I look forward to reading more of his stuff.
Didn't finish. If I'd read this when I was younger, I probably would have loved Vin enough to power through, because she's great and I can tell the world-building is FASCINATING, but now that I'm an adult, the glaring lack of any other women became too much of a hurdle.
Unfortunately we're given a very unoriginal character development path that the author can't stop talking about:1) Start weak and helpless2) Her insecurities will remain with her through most of the series3) She will gradually grow stronger until...4) She'll triumph!Again, that's great and all, but you cannot repeatedly write out step 2 and expect me not to want to punch someone in the face!
He churns out books like a mad man so it's fair he doesn't hit them all out of the park.The magic system's quite nifty, but again the writing about the magic system got in the way of telling an actual story.
I read this book as part of a deeper look into fantasy novels which have taken on the typically science-fiction task of enumerating and exploring their systems of magic.
Additionally, Sanderson brings in a weak fictional adaptation of America's Founding Fathers story in the second book, only to abandon the political science aspect in the third.I find Sanderson's great ideas lie in the underlying mythology and study of religions through the Sazed character.
Sanderson has a lot of thought provoking and inspiring ideas about the role of religion and spirituality that aren't typical in Fantasy.Overall I enjoyed the series and would recommend it for Fantasy lovers.
By the end of this series, I have a great amount of respect for the level of thought and detail the author put into these books.
There are so many levels, so much going on in the plots.
Especially in the second book, as one chapter left off following the events of one character or group, and picked up with other characters, I found myself thinking, "Oh, that's right, that is going on, too!" There are so many sub plots rolling around.
Yet they all come together for a satisfying ending.
If you begin this series, don't leave off until you've reached the end.

I absolutely love this series.
Love love love.
Vin is heroic and so enjoyable as with all of the crew.
This story has some amazing magic systems that make sense and follow rules, be they magical rules.
The world is imaginative and difficult than earth where the mists are always out at night, and the leaves are brown.
I have read almost everything that Brandon Sanderson has written, though there are other stories that are bigger in scale this trilogy has an amazing balance between epic scale and focus of main characters.
This is a must read for fantasy readers and Sanderson fans.
WOW...easily one of the best series I have ever read. I won't even bother reviewing them individually because they were each amazing on their own. THAT ENDING! wow...I was trying to figure out the ending since book one. I had quite a few theories, and some of them I got right, but some of them I wasn't even close on! These books really kept me on my toes, kept me guessing, but best of all...kept surprising me!! MUST READ!!
This was one of the best series I've ever read. I found the first book a bit slow to start and only persevered because of the high rating on goodreads and I'm oh so happy I did. Brilliant! Each book had an unexpected twist that added massively to my enjoyment of the series. I loved the characters and the writing and I highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys fantasy.
One of the best series I've read in a long time! A must read!! This book is full of twist, turns and unexpected events. No dull spots in these books :)
