https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11765.Americana
He’s like Nabokov in the delight he takes in crafting individual sentences.
I don’t think any living writer is better at individual sentence writing.
I can think of at least four of his novels that begin with stunningly beautiful prose but eventually peter out as if he runs out of that magic elixir, inspiration.
DeLillo doesn’t do plots.
The alternative to plotting a novel is to theme it.
Zero K was probably better unified in terms of theme than some of his earlier novels but the inspired writing was missing.
The Names has the inspired writing but the theme becomes ever more oblique and elusive.
I'm taking a road trip with my brother (a writer), his friend (a documentary filmaker and former CIA agent), and another freind (a literary American writer of both fiction and nonfiction) later this summer.
Perhaps, I need to switch books and eat 'Americana'.
Our road trip is starting and ending in Dallas.
I feel like my Summer of 2017 started and will eventually end with the taste of 'Americana' in my mouth.ding in Dallas.
I feel like my Summer of 2017 started and will eventually end with the taste of 'Americana' in my mouth.
Americana is a story of existential emptiness…The war was on television every night but we all went to the movies.
Soon most of the movies began to look alike and we went into dim rooms and turned on or off, or watched others turn on or off, or burned joss sticks and listened to tapes of near silence.Emptiness is universal, it is all around and there are all modifications of it: spiritual, cultural, intellectual, societal… So one has nothing to do but to obey one’s basic instincts……the girls were hammering at their little oval keys.
A Polished Set of PietiesMy first experience of the DeLillo-Rama was  "The Names"  and until now I had only read one of the earlier novels - "Great Jones Street" - though I was trying to keep up with the later novels.Little did I realise what a gem was waiting for me in "Americana", DeLillo's first novel.It's 377 pages long, divided into four parts and 12 chapters, but it reads as fluently as a novel two-thirds its size.Its relative brevity doesn't detract from its ability to explore or dramatis
DeLillo totally nails the speech patterns of this subculture.Part Two returns to Bell's childhood, and his relationship with his legendary advertising exec father, his socialite mother, and his two sisters, Mary and Jane.In Part Three David absconds from work to make a semi-documentary, semi-autobiographical film in the Mid-West, which causes him to miss his engagement on a documentary project about the Navaho people in Arizona for his network.Part Four sees David continue his road trip westward to California, after which much later (possibly 1999) he is living in isolation on an island (rather than the continent of North America) where he finishes an autobiographical novel (possibly this novel?).Part Dream, Part Fiction, Part MoviesThe film script gives David an opportunity to write about himself in dialogue form.
We have the stories of the founding fathers that people like Glen Beck cry over, we're white-washers of what Manifest Destiny entailed a la Rush Limbaugh on his day before Thanksgiving show of his past year, we're glorifiers of larger than life figures like Big Bill Haywood and Alexander Berkman (I don't want to leave the radicals out of my theory here).
Miscreants, dreamers, those unhappy with their lot in life, failures, the oppressed, people who have lives that are so awful that a big gamble on something new is better than what they are living in, rubes fooled by silly stories of streets paved with gold these are our forefathers.
It seems that this has only entered the pop culture discourse as a sort of proto-American Psycho, based around the idea that its first segment is about the shallow nature of corporate America and the personality-free drones that make their fortunes within the confines of that system.
For one, the "office politics" segment only lasts about a hundred pages, before David Bell (who most would hold as this novel's Bateman) hits the road.
Bell wants more than Bateman, wants more than to be a shallow, personality-free drone, and I think that makes him a more complex and therefore interesting character than Bateman.
Just really unbelievable that he can get away with so blatant and heavy a freudian plot point. Along with the iron-fisted relationships drawn between flashback and present action. All of it. The disastrous last act, the disastrous bookend premise of the narrator's presence. And still, STILL, a book everyone should read, especially everyone who wants to write a novel, because here is a masterful author's uniquely unmasterful first stab, since esteemed as a masterpiece for its sheer unmasterfulness. It's. Wonderful. An opening sentence up there with Barth's "Funhouse" opening. I steal from this book almost every day of my life.
Mai più! Ho provato la stessa sensazione di insofferenza e claustrofobia di quando si è obbligati ad ascoltare qualcuno che vomita parole per te senza importanza
Ein Roman sollte doch eine Aussage vermitteln!Ach ja - was auf fast 500 Seiten passiert, ist in ein paar Sätzen erzählt: Typen in einer Fernsehanstalt spielen blöde Machtspielchen und tun die meiste Zeit nur so, als ob sie arbeiten würden.
Mann fährt herum filmt ein bisschen und brät mit Vorliebe Frauen mit Freund an, um sein kleines Ego etwas mit Selbstbewußtsein aufzuwerten.
Wenn Ihr noch irgendwo ein bisschen mehr Substanz aus diesem grauenvollen Machwerk herauszuzeln könnt, seid bitte so lieb schreibt und erklärt es mir, denn ich habe wirklich nicht mehr gefunden.
Americana is DeLillo's first novel, but i cant say that it seems to be the first he wrote. it's as if he never really advanced in his writing. It's as if he chose a way of writing and stuck to it until now. Americana deals with a man, David Bell, who leaves his job in order to 'live,' but he goes on an advanture from which he never recoveres...
This novel initiates a number of standard DeLillo ideas insofar as it involves: A) A producer of hyperreal fictions laments the “disturbingly elapsed quality” inherent in existing “only on videotape” (23); dude likes to review “schizograms from girls” such as “Hello from the scenic coast of Nebraska” (22); he’ll refer to someone as a “living schizogram” later (51); the term is defined as “an exercise in diametrics which attempts to unmake meaning” (347).
I picked up Americana (1971) when I stumbled on it at the library because I have just bought a copy of award-winning Nigerian Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s Americanah from the Africa Book Club - and I wanted to see if she drew at all on DeLillo’s novel with a similar sounding name…DeLillo’s Americana is his first novel, and it’s one of those subversion of the ‘American dream’ novels.
DeLillo says himself that it’s a ‘shaggy’ novel - and it is, but it’s still interesting to read.It begins with a portrait of office life which presents the intensely competitive male employees endlessly trying to analyse office politics to identify the real hierarchy which lies beneath the veneer of equality.
I once saw this book referenced (I no longer recall by who) as an example of the First Novels Are Most Quintessential principle.
Not necessarily best, but just the most like the body of work they open.
The idea has some merit, especially in this case: DeLillo has always grappled with the meaning of modernity in American life, through any number of lenses, but only in this first and aptly named version did he just plunge in head-on, laying out thematic territory we would return to again and again.
DeLillo's debut contains the seeds of his better future novels and the remnants of typical American fiction that he would forever leave behind.
The first section is an absurdist office comedy that's eerily close to "Mad Men." The second section reads like a remix of Updike or Cheever.
The third is an examination of stasis and begins DeLillo's ongoing fascination with artists, representations of reality, and extreme works of art.
The final section reads like "Two Lane Blacktop" scripted by Robert Stone - i.e., a last hard look at the '60s.
The story doesn't really hold together, but the finely tuned sentences and observations are already here in abundance.
Inizia come se il protagonista fosse uscito direttamente da "American Psycho", poi arrivi a un terzo del libro e, a ricordarti che chi scrive non è Easton Ellis, interviene il DeLillo delle opere più mature."Americana", che è il primissimo romanzo scritto dall'autore di "Underworld", non ha certo il peso né le pretese dei suoi grandi lavori successivi, a volte si perde anzi in una trama che sembra non avere una direzione precisa.
È così che, approfittando di un impegno di lavoro, David Bell si troverà a girare in camper per l'America registrando il suo personale film, un lungometraggio autobiografico in cui riprese amatoriali e attori improvvisati rappresentano il "sogno americano" del giovane ventottenne, interpretandone, spesso accentuandone i comportamenti, ciò che nei suoi primi 28 anni di vita è stato.
Delillo writes about image and death and it seems that most of his characters are fascinated by war and terrorism, whether it’s David Bell from Americana or Gary Harkness of End Zone.
At times it’s as if Delillo is writing thru a video camera and there’s a sense of excellent cinematography in all of Delillo’s work.
I liked the nine mile race track in the end of Americana and when David Bell is in his NYC high rise office in the beginning looking out the window at the Mohawk skyscraper workers working on a skeleton of a high-rise building going up, it’s at this point, a scene only Delillo can write, that you feel David Bell's need to escape.
DeLillo's debut novel is all about the real (hyperreal) stuff of America and Americana: its image(s).
The major themes of this novel were revisited, in various different ways, in many (most?) of DeLillo's later work, but this novel really tears into Americana.
It's like Two-Lane Blacktop and David Lynch collided head-on with, well, Don DeLillo.
a quick note: parts of this really hammered home the parallels and similarities I'd already noticed between Don DeLillo's work and Mad Men. Perhaps a coincidence, but I wouldn't be surprised if Matthew Weiner has read many a DeLillo book.
White Noise is one of my favorites. This didn't do it for me. It's dated and was almost painful to read; all the characters are self-absorbed and one-sided. It's written almost as stream of consciousness, but grates because it's trying too hard to prove something.I am planning to read Libra soon because the concept is just too interesting. I wish I'd passed on this one though.
"Tutti al mondo desiderano rassicurazione. E' la monetina che infilano nel distributore di realtà. Non importa se dal distributore esce qualcosa o meno, purché la monetina venga restituita.""L'America può essere salvata solo da ciò che cerca di distruggere""Diosalvi i poveri stronzi che stanno dalla nostra parte solo per finire ubiquizzati in frattaglie onnipervasive dalle buone intenzioni delle nostre bombe""L'inattività è il preludio a quel genere di consapevolezza che sfocia nella presa di coscienza finale dell'inutilità di qualsiasi azione"
(Let me put it this way, an American would have felt the same had he read a novel in which the prologue is about India's 83 world cup final match and winning it.
At the end of the first part, David finally loses wakes up from his ennui goes on a road trip with a video camera, officially to work on his job, but on a personal quest in reality.
The novel runs all over the place (much like the protagonist) and ends with David going off to Dallas to the place of Kennedy's assassination.
перший роман, великий, але не величний, власне, надто багатослівний і без стрімкої фабули, якісь невиразні едіпальні ретроспекції + багато розмислів про кіно- і телеобрази+але вже є все, що він потім вдосконалить у подальших романах: філософія, скепсис, екфрасис, секс (у Делілло чоловік завжди спочатку "притискає" жінку), історія тощо. книзі бракує глибини, це ніби пласкі образи на екрані (особливо, сцена фінальної п'яної оргії), але вона підбиває підсумки певного американського етапу, кінець бітників і зародження (чи розквіт?) консьюмеризму з переважанням зображень над текстами.
Mi sono stufata. E molto anche. Questo era il mio primo approccio a DeLillo. Ed è andato decisamente male. Ci riproverò in futuro, con un altro libro. Sperando che, col tempo, come scrittore sia migliorato. Perché qui, in questo suo primo romanzo, fa veramente venire il latte alle ginocchia.
I have no idea how to rate this book. I hated it. I loved it. I hated it more. I loved it again. I threw it across the room. There is so much to hate, but then you find lines like, "We are what we remember," or "If you let yourself be what you want to be, physically and spiritually, you can kill a lot of the death inside you," so you keep reading because there's more like them, shining and beautiful among the muck.
I read this years ago, and quite liked it - though it is not really his best book. There a wonderful part in it where the writer is making a film and has written the script on the walks of the motel room he is in and gets the actor to read the script as he uses the camera to either film the actor or pan the text on the walls. His books are filled with incredibly strong images that stay with your for years and years.
A great poke at Madison Avenue! From the beginning of DeLillo's career and a must read for his fans.
Hmm, I thought, the title is eye-catching, and the blurb sounds intriguing, so why not give it a whirl?While Americana was downloading to my trusty Kindle, I did some quick research on DeLillo and learned that he is most often labeled as employing Modernist as well as Postmodernist literary styles while exploring largely Postmodern themes.
And although it was not as painful to listen to as part 1 was, and Bell is not yet as revolting as he later becomes, there are a couple of stock Postmodern diatribes against the absurdity of modern life that served only to make me tune out.
It tries to be Heller and Kerouac. It fails at both.
I remember when I read DeLillo's book "Libra" that I had been completely enamored with his prose.
And the prose in Americana is good, but I just didn't like it as much.
It seems an early example of the kind of work that would inspire the likes of Bret Easton Ellis, with his literature of the grotesque, and it is clear that the novel investigates many postmodern elements.All said, while Americana wasn't all that good itself, I would recommend it to any DeLillo fan in order to gain a wider understanding of his work.
It is experimental satire of high order; a book written in a more blessed time when a major publisher would risk printing a first novel that follows none of the predictable maxims of storytelling.
It is a novel without villain unless that villain is at times the narrator, David Bell, himself.
The long imagery laden paragraphs that often stretch for pages and read more like free form poetry than action driven narrative are stunningly revelatory in capturing the changing moral landscape of America in the late 60's.
It is one that I allowed myself time to read slowly and contemplate; and one I will likely read again.
It's been ages since I read any DeLillo and so going back and reading his first book was an odd experience.
Clearly I wasn't going to get something on the scale of Underworld which, at least in memory, is an amazing book but I was hoping for something as good as White Noise.
Then again maybe that's the point of the book and I'd missed it as I got embroiled in it.
