https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51370.Leading_Change
Kotter proceeds to explain his eight-stage process of creating major change that consists in (1) establishing a sense of urgency (2) creating the guiding coalition (3) developing a vision and strategy (4) communicating the change vision (5) empowering broad-based action by getting rid of obstacles and changing systems or structures that undermine the change vision (6) generating short-term wins (7) consolidating gains and producing more change (8) anchoring new approaches in the culture. I don’t think the book actually adds anything more than his article ‘Leading Change’ published on the Harvard Business Review a year before.
This book is a stalwart when it comes to managing change in organizations.
Management versus Leadership•	Planning and budgeting	•	Establishing direction•	Organizing and staffing	•	Aligning people•	Controlling and problem solving	•	Motivating and inspiringProduces a degree of predictability and order and has the potential to consistently produce the short-term results expected by various stakeholders (on time for customers (public / stakeholders), on budget for stockholders (or Congress / taxpayers))	Produces change, often to a dramatic degree, and has potential to produce extremely useful change (new products that customers want, new labor relation approaches, more competitive)As I read this book, I reflected on the Project Management Business Process (PMBP) and how that was a major change for the Corps.
Read in a book club with my boss. This book was fantastic- straightforward, with real techniques and lots of ideas threaded throughout the concepts. This book empowers any level employee to suggest and make changes. Highly recommend to anyone involved in change efforts (small or large) in their workplace.
DNF.Got about 25% in.Seems to be focused on very large organizations.Found the way the information is presented made it almost impossible to logically follow or learn from. And the information was of such, that I didn't really care for anything they said.The only thing they said that made sense was that there is a big difference between management and leadership. And where the one falls short and the other should take over.
In fact, he explains that entrenched arrogant management corporate cultures squash leadership abilities.
Sure there are more and more examples of adaptive corporate cultures, but when Kotter wrote this in 1996, he probably thought we might be a bit further ahead than we are today in 2012.
He is talking about the 21st century organization - so I guess we still have 88 years to adapt.
In particular I think the ability to communicate your vision more broadly and to encourage broad-based empowerment might be supported by the changes we are experiencing in today's socially networked organization.
This book is a little depressing but highly informative. It focuses on changing organizations culture/behavior etc. The big message could be summed up as "lasting change is super hard." Some of the smaller ideas that make that up, you must have people behind the change that have power to enforce, there must be buy in at all levels, create urgency, once the change is taking place and success ensues - you must not stop but make sure to have prolonged oversight to see it all the way done and ingrained in the organization.
"A good rule of thumb: Whenever you hear of a major restructuring, reengineering, or strategic redirection in which step 1 is 'changing the culture,' you should be concerned that it might be going down the wrong path."
this book was recommended by bashir
Interesting read - but not widely surprising. Goes into an 8 step process for leading change. Very high level and theory based. Key for leaders is creating and communicating vision then pulling together a team to make it happen. The 8 steps are helpful - but also unclear.
I would recommend this reading to the leaders who are launching themselves in the work related to the change management.
The book depicts a clear path from creating the urgency to sustaining the change in the culture while using very visual examples & proven practices.
Please note that even if an author focuses on the large organizations, there are a lot of what can be applied for any change program - big or small.PS: while reading this book I had a background feeling that it's extremely complex to make the change and literally everything may cause the failure.
I'm wondering was it an explicit intention of the author to highlight that leading/doing change is not that simple as it may feel at start?
Fantastic book on the process, pitfalls and promise of organizational change. Addresses the environmental factors that are driving more rapid and constant changes to be necessary and how the right combination of leadership and management can keep your organization ahead of the curve.
It is a Harvard Business School Press publication.Leading Change is very thorough and simple to understand.
I recommend the book over the audio presentation, as it is a bit deep for the audio presentation and contains a lot of lists which are better understood and retained through visual reading.Kotter lays out a solid plan complete with examples and anecdotes.
A manager can manage processes and procedures, but it takes the vision of a leader to make change happen.I recommend this book to leaders in any organization as a solid foundation for change.
Leading Change is a somewhat dated, but still valuable and timely book that explores John Kotter’s views on the essentials of leading organizational change, as informed by his experiences with numerous companies.
His eight stage process of change leadership has been referenced in numerous textbooks, and has become a source of insight for many managers and companies desiring to change the way they meet their environment and competition.
Establish a sense of urgency to gain the necessary cooperation in the change effort.2.
Empower employees for broad-based action to involve more people, in more powerful ways, in the change effort.6.
Then, the book identify 8 stages that an orgnization must go through when going through a transformation: 1) Establish a sense of urgency, 2) Creating the guiding coalition, 3) Creating a vision and strategy, 4) Communicating the vision, 5) Empowering the people, 6) Ensure having short term wins, 7) Consolidating gains and delivering more change, and 8) Instilling the change in the org culture.
It must be communicated well by the transformation team (named guiding coalition in the book).
- Creating a high sense of urgency among the people is important.
Change need people to engage efficiently in the transformation process.
We had just gotten a new CEO and they sent a copy of this out for the store managers.
I was filling in as store manager at the time, while my boss was on maternity leave, so I though I'd give it a try.
Plus it was a weird pick for store managers in a corporate setting, when the book seemed to be telling us how to lead a corporation if we have years or a decade to build on.
Reminds me why I only minored in business management: teaching what should be common sense puts me to sleep.
This is a good business/ organization behavior trade book.
The problem area is a real one -- how does one get a large organization to significantly change what it is doing without chaos breaking out and lots of time, energy, and resources being wasted?
The writing is good, the organization of the book is effective, the perspective is skeptical and realistic.
The tone is not pompous and quite down to earth - odd from the HBS.These books are an acquired taste at best, but this is a good example of the genre.
One of those books that makes much of the business world make a lot more sense when you're done. A lightbulb about successful and failed change efforts at workplaces throughout my career went off probably every two or three pages throughout the book. It has some good insights too, I think, for anyone wondering why we are doing such a crap job of transforming on a larger, societal scale to deal wtih environmental threats like climate change.
This book answer the question why change in organizations fail or not achieve the ultimate goal ? to understand why , Kotter explain the eight stages required to have a successful transformation based on a long experience in consulting. The book identifies the key elements which have to be considered in order to get the desired result, Change is not easy and can't be done in short period of time.
Helpful tips in leading an organization through change. I wish I had come across this book prior to some of my failed efforts at institutional change. An easy read - Kotter encourages leaders to consider the challenge of implementing change and gives practical, helpful advice in the nuts and bolts of the process. This book is written for the corporate world but can be applied to any organization.
Great book!Leading Change summarizes clearly the main steps to keep in mind when leading change in an organization. It includes a lot of practical examples and good reasoning for each specific step. Recommended.
Great advice on what it will take to achieve change in large, slow-moving organizations. All of the obstacles and anti-patterns were painfully familiar, and the advice seems straightforward in retrospect, but isn't obvious when you're in the middle of the problem.
Awesome book to use as a guide post for leading change within an organization. Practical tools for leaders to use to create successful change initiatives in an ever changing environment. Another book that I will refer back to again and again!
Great read. Really makes you reflect on the company you work for and your role there. Read it!
In a successful transformation, managers actively look for ways to obtain clear performance improvements, establish goals in the yearly planning system, achieve these objectives, and reward the people involved with recognition, promotions, or money.”“The first four steps in the transformation process help defrost a hardened status quo.”“Have you ever tried to write down the vision and strategies in summary form on a few pages of paper?”“Truth is, when you neglect any of the warm-up or defrosting activities (steps 1 to 4), you rarely establish a solid enough base on which to proceed.
The purpose of this paper is to provide a critical analysis Mr. Kotter's 8 stages of leading change in the context of organizational behavior and leadership theory.Establishing a Sense of UrgencyOf interest in this first stage is the lack of discussion concerning when change is needed.
Kotter proposes that a short term win is essential to prove to critics that a fundamental change is good for the organization and to encourage coalition members.
If this perception of personal gain for short term wins is evident, trust further breaks down among the leader's coalition and the workforce.
A description of a structure process of implementing changes in organization. Every step is backed up by real world examples and tips.The process is as follows:1. Create the sense of urgency Help others see the need for change through a bold, aspirational opportunity statement that communicates the importance of acting immediately.2. Build a guiding coalition A volunteer army needs a coalition of effective people – born of its own ranks – to guide it, coordinate it, and communicate its activitie
A description of a structure process of implementing changes in organization.
Create the sense of urgency	Help others see the need for change through a bold, aspirational opportunity statement that communicates the importance of acting immediately.2.
Build a guiding coalition	A volunteer army needs a coalition of effective people – born of its own ranks – to guide it, coordinate it, and communicate its activities.3.
Enlist a volunteer army	Large-scale change can only occur when massive numbers of people rally around a common opportunity.
Enable action by removing barriers	Removing barriers such as inefficient processes and hierarchies provides the freedom necessary to work across silos and generate real impact.6.
Here's a quick read on an important topic: The leadership and management of change efforts.Dr. John Kotter is a Professor of Leadership at Harvard Business School and this book was written out of his experiences observing and consulting with businesses that were attempting to make significant organizational changes of various types.
If a leader (or leadership group) doesn't understand what drives change and chooses not to acknowledge the eight steps, the change effort is likely to stall at some point - probably at whatever stage of the process they ignored.The book is written in short chapters without a lot of jargon and thus is easy to digest.
If you work in business administration, you should probably read this book.
If you don't, you should still probably read this book.
Change processes are part of every human organization as they adapt to new internal and external dynamics.
The eight-step process of leading organizational change offered by Kotter has become a standard way over the past 22 years.
Although the later steps kind of get into the weeds, Kotter saves the end of his book by giving some inspirational examples of individuals who have determined to continue to learn, adapt, and grow instead of become set in their ways.
Kotter also details the 8-stages needed to cause a transformation within an organization.
Incidentally, I prefer the word "transformation" to the word "change" - a bigger, fatter caterpillar is technically "changed" but only the butterfly can truly be considered the result of a transformation, i.e. a radical shift in the structure.
I'm really only interested in transformation, i.e. non-linear, unprecedented results.
Kotter also discusses the difference between leader and managers."Living in an over-managed and under-led company for most of their careers just reinforced this blind spot because culture and vision tend to be more the province of leadership just as structure and systems is more of a management tool."
