https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/165548.Parent_Effectiveness_Training
Three main techniques:Active ListeningWhen a child presents a problem/concern/expresses something at all, echo back to them what you hear they are FEELING (not just parrot back what they say), no judgement, evaluation, lecture, etc.
Just LISTEN and echo back what they say, allowing them to own the problem and come to their own solution.
Can we talk about ______ and how we could figure this out?" Do not judge,, allow all possible solutions to be presented and agree on one together.
Absolutely the best parenting book I've read.
It's already had the biggest impact on our lives of any parenting book I've read.
Actually if you want to learn specific techniques for parenting and are open to why the traditional model isn't working, you'll love this book.
I've read a lot of parenting books.
I mean ask yourself this: do you want growing resentment to build between you and your child until they check out from you as teens and can't wait to get away and disregard everything you've said as adults?
I think the main methods outlined: Active Listening, using I-messages,and finding solutions together with your children instead of imposing them from above, are good in theory, and I've been using all three.
Sure, I-messages are all well and good, but my two-year-old doesn't care that it makes me feel frustrated when he smears his sticky hands on my clothes or that it makes his sister cry when he throws his truck at her.
I do think that it makes our 6 year old feel empowered and more likely to stick with a solution when she helped to find it.
The premise of the book is that some parents use their power to control their children, while other parents, in order to be liked by their kids or to keep the peace, allow their children to do whatever they want at the expense of their own needs.
I'd love to go to a workshop, but for the time being, I have gotten sufficient guidance from this book to improve my relationships with my children.
The author believes that children are not given nearly enough opportunities to be responsible.
He is widely recognized as a pioneer in teaching communication skills and conflict resolution methods to parents, teachers, leaders, women, youth and salespeople.
As an alternative, he taught people skills for communicating and resolving conflicts that they can use to establish or improve good relationships at home, school and at work.
These skills, which include active listening, I-messages and No-Lose Conflict Resolution, are now widely known and used by people around the world.In recognition of his contributions to the betterment of humanity, Dr. Gordon was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize in 1997, 1998 and 1999.
but then I realized I couldn't implement it effectively, lovingly and in a way where I felt I was being respectful of my children as individuals.
recently, after implementing PET, I have watched fascinated as they solved a problem on their own after all I said was simply, "Just talk to each other and work it out, please."Whether or not you struggle with your temper or your kids behaving appropriately, this is a wonderful book on communication that will help you in your relationship with your children, and adults as well.
I found active listening, I-messages, and no-lose conflict resolution to be very useful concepts and I think I'll get a lot from this book on that front, but I felt like the book itself was about twice (or more) as long as it needed to be, very repetitive, and very...I don't know, borderline-infomercialish in terms of the way Gordon promoted his perspective.
And all of the proclamation about the tendencies "today's youths" just made me roll my eyes, because it's the kind of overgeneralized writing I see a lot of in the freshman-level college writing class I teach - my students learn to write better by the end of the class :)
This book has one very important idea that really works. Once you get the concept, it seems like the author drones on and on about it. TLDR; this could be a three chapter book. I highly recommend reading the first couple of chapters and skimming until you find parts you want to read. The examples throughout are very worthy.The P.E.T. technique has really revolutionized the relationship between me and my child. Warning, the intro makes it sound like this book promote permissive parenting. Don't be put off by that! ESSENTIAL reading if you find yourself nagging your children often. ;)
I am not a parent myself but this was an excellent book, that made me improve my communication not only with children but with any other human beeing.There are three things that are really well explained:1. reacting to conflict and to child's problem by active listening2. reacting to conflict and misbehavior with "I feel statement"3. cooperative conflict solutionIt is such a good book that I summarized it here:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1E...
De citit.
De catre parinti, de catre profesori.
De citit periodic, din cand in cand, anual, trimestrial, cum vreti voi.
Luati din ea ce rezoneaza cu voi si cu familia voastra.
A fi parinte e o meserie.
Unii parinti nu o invata de la nimeni, altii o invata gresit.
De aici incepi sa fii un parinte bun: sa recunosti ca si asta se invata.
Nu le stim pe toate si mai ales nu avem dreptate intotdeauna.
Iar daca avem dreptate, s-ar putea ca punctul nostru de vedere sa nu fie si solutia acceptata de copii.
Apare un citat din Profetul lui Gibran. Tratează cu respect copilul, ascultă, nu folosi forța și autoritatea, spune ce simți onest, discută fără să jignești, să predici, să judeci, să critici, să lauzi, să psihanalizezi, lasă-l să găsească singur soluții la problemele lui, caută soluții împreună când e un conflict. Puterea corupe.
The outdated examples made it difficult to pay attention to the content, because I was too busy rolling my eyes at the book.The basic principles are sound.
This isn't the only book in which the sample dialogues have children speaking in artificial, stilted ways, and being able to reason their way to a solution (by themselves!) within three or four sentences, even when they're three years old.
I'm not an expert, but I've never met a child who speaks the way these children do, not even the really precocious children I've met.
This was a life-changing book for me.
I read it in conjunction with a class on Parent Effectiveness Training that I took through Luke's elementary school.
The course and instructor were excellent - I wish everyone who read the book could have had the same class that I did.
However, by just reading the book I think it's possible to improve your relationship with your children and help them to grow up to be the thinking, responsible people that you want them to be.
And the relationship concepts Dr. Gordon teaches can be applied to all relationships, not just those between the parent and child.
This book isn't just for helping communication between you and your children, this book also helped me communicate and compromise better with my husband, stopped a lot of arguments in their tracks. Can't speak highly enough of it.
I can highly recommend this book for anyone with kids... it gives a third way instead of the authoritarian or permissive parenting.. takes the win lose feeling out of parenting. Already I feel and see a difference in my parenting and behavior of my son and resolving interactions with other kids!
If you're going to read one parenting book, probably the best one is How to Talk So Kids Will Listen & Listen So Kids Will Talk, which contains a lot of the same basic ideas, but packaged in a way that doesn't communicate that you're too stupid to parent correctly without intensive intervention, and if you would only listen to these experts, your kids would always think you were great.
The behavior window is a way of thinking about whether the parent, the child, or both has the responsibility for a problem.
This book is an invaluable guide to communicating with your children, giving clear and practical tips and advice on listening to them, giving them the space and respect to deal with their own problems in their own way, effectively communicating that you want them to do something in your interest, and reaching compromise without anyone feeling the loser in the exchange.In our daily reality, whenever we think to apply what we've learned, the change in attitude on the part of our kids is almost magical, and conflicts and fights, if they arise, don't last as long and aren't as intense as before.It's not a perfect book: the countless testimonies from parents who benefited from the Gordon Method feel like overkill after a few dozen pages, and frankly, a lot of them don't quite ring true.
Has some really useful information about the communication methods you can use with your child and few practical tips you can follow.
I would consider this book more useful for parenting older children where verbal communication is already established.
Though it also has some tips for toddlers and younger children.
Content is mostly experiential but it also gives some references to studies.
Considering it has been written almost 40 years ago it is quite a good parenting book.
I have even seen reflections of some content in actual books.
Therefore 4 star rating is well deserved based on the year of the book.
I've read quite a few books about the upbringing of children written by acknowledged domestic or international specialists in this scientific field and I say this is the bible of parenting!
It talks about a theory and practice of parenting that, in the end, looks so right and sensible that makes you think why couldn't you see it before.
Well, most of us are largely influenced by the parenting of our parents and first of all we have to get rid of the prejudices and stereotypes of the past in order to become effective parents of our own.Love is fundamental for children but is not enough at all.
As the saying roughly goes, "the road to hell is paved with good intentions"...
good follow up to "how to talk so kids will listen and listen so kids will talk" though I do feel like some of the examples were a bit more convoluted then "how to talk", sometimes even bordering on total overkill. That being said PET is a fantastic companion book for people who need a little more help with more effective communication. Broken down into its most basic form: *expanding bank of acceptable behaviors*identifying problem ownership*focusing on active listening and "I" statements*defines steps to find mutually agreeable solutions-id conflict-generate solutions-evaluate possible solutions-decide-implement -follow up
For a child’s problem: “You ... “ message, active listening. Don’t send msg of your own, but just acknowledge and accept child’s feeling. Helps child express herself and solve problem herself. For a parent’s problem: “I ...” message. tell child how you feel, why is her behavior unacceptable. Encourages her to figure out how to change her behavior or solve the conflict.Use of parental power results in resentment, rebellion, obedience, or hiding and lying.
This book is very helpful not only for parenting and child rearing, but also for improving interpersonal relations in general. Engaging in active listening, avoiding blaming others with "you" messages and focusing on "I" messages, and participating in "no-lose" conflict resolution will make one a happier and more cooperative individual. The techniques illustrated in P.E.T. helped me become a better person after I first read the book when I was in my twenties.
Very quick read with lots of very useful ideas and information.It's really just an introduction, though. The book is full of examples on how to apply the techniques in different situations, but they don't really cover each technique for each age group. I think some additional conversation around edge cases would also be useful.Even so, this seems to me to be a very solid introductory text for non-punitive parenting approaches.
Being a fresh father, i bought this book. One of my friends needed help with his teenage boy and i gave him the book. Before i read this book he read and said it was very helpful and felt he was a little late to read. After that i started to read it. I sort of knew what not to do; this book helped me about some methods and what to do. I don't want to be too optimistic because it is no magic book, but i can say it might solve some problems. Won't hurt if you read
I very much liked the basic principles presented by the book but was frustrated by the number of references to the PET training courses. That space could have been better filled with more examples of putting the new techniques into practice. While I will definitely implement the general ideas, the book itself left me feeling like I'd watched an extended infomercial.
Çok başarılı bir kitap gerçekten. Hemen hepsi farklı kitaplarda da okuduğum şeyler aslında, etkili dinleme, çocukla konuşurken ben dili ile duyguları iletmek, çatışmaları kazan/kazan yöntemi ile çözmek, bazı konularda kendimizi değiştirmeyi başarmak vs. hepsi tanıdık ama kitap akışı, anlatımı, dili ve örnekleri ile konuyla ilgili az öz okuyacağım ne okusam diyenlere önerebileceğim bir kitap oldu.
"Nonviolent Communication" but focused on parent-child relationships. That's how I've described this to everyone I've talked to about this book. Which is almost everyone I've talked to in the last few weeks. I loved this book, and it's already changed my relationship with my older son for the better.
I'm convinced. Method III is my preferred parenting style. It's the same as propsed in 'How to Talk so Kids will Listen...', 'Kids are Worth It', and 'Children are People Too'. Resonates strongly with me. I found the appendix at the end with specific examples of types of communication and problem solving to be helpful.
A must read for all parents, people becoming parents and even grand parents. Truly a wonderful book and very fun to read. I’ve implemented the parenting style and have a great success and reducing the need for punishment, built up relationships with my children and have created a much more harmonious home.
oldukça işlevsel bilgiler veren şahane bir eğitim kitabı olduğunu düşünüyorum. kendi çalışmalarımda kullanıp bibliyografi olarak da çalıştığım anne-babalara okutmuşluğum var. Alandışı ebeveynler de alandaki meslektaşlarım da keyifle okuyabilir
