https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35889205-the-storyteller-s-secret
If you know nothing about India or Indian culture and you don't mind a very predictable book with few twists or turns, then I'm sure it's an acceptable novel.
By the time Jaya arrives, her grandfather has gone and she's left with her grandmother's friend and servant, Ravi, to tell her about the past.Nothing about this book rings true.
I think this is set in the late 1980s or 1990s because nobody has a mobile phone - yet Jaya is supposed to be writing a blog.
I read a LOT of books by Indian writers and books set in India and this is third-rate.
Absolutely awesome book. I started reading and did not stop until the very last page. Great story, beautifully told. The culture, the setting, the pace, and the emotions were perfectly on target. 5+ Stars for me.
I love reading books about India and thought this would be a winner but unfortunately it was too predictable and I figured out early on how it was going to end.Thank you Lake Union Publishing and Netgalley for an ARC in exchange for an honest review.
This is the book of the summer for me. I felt like i was right there in India with Jaya. I had to read this book in one day. Now i have to find a book that comes up to its excellence. Wonderful story, written sooooo well.
Not only did it keep me gripped from beginning to end it left me feeling lighthearted after reading it.The Storyteller’s Secret tells the tale of two women, grandmother and granddaughter, one set back in India when the British were ruling and one set in modern day time.Jaya, the granddaughter, is in India trying to learn about her past and where she came from after suffering her third miscarriage and not knowing how to survive life at this point.Amisha, the grandmother, is in the midst of India’s ruling under the British during WWII and is desperate to escape the world she lives in.
I'll explain: WARNING - SPOILERS AHEADWhat I loved about the book:* The details about India, the caste system and the place of women, the beauty of Amisha and Stephen's love story* The writing was good, though there were typos throughout that makes me feel it could have used a better, more thorough editor* The morals of the story, of strength and weakness and different kinds of love, choices, regrets...* I did like that there was at least a happy ending for Jaya and Patrick.
I would have given this 1 star if that were not the caseWhat I REALLY didn't love:* Stephen got a raw deal!!!
I think I must have read a different book to everyone else, looking at the ratings and reviews.
If you can totally suspend your disbelief about the period of history in which it was written, the shoehorning of the feminist message into a character from the 1920s and the dialogue which just didn't ring true (a British public school educated officer talking about his 'mates' and his 'mum' for example), then I'm sure you'll love it.
This one came up as an August Prime First Reads. I recognized the author, I loved her first book, Trail of Broken Wings so I jumped on it immediately. Read it over just a couple days and loved this one too. A story of 3 women, grandmother, daughter and granddaughter, all facing different obstacles. It drew me in and I could hardly put it down.
Rarely do we ever know the stories of our parents lives and understand what events made them who they became.
I guessed a key event long before it happened.About a third of the way through the novel, I made the mistake of reading a few of the reviews.
Having never been there, I could not judge for myself, but the review colored my reading of the book.
I began to question if the author had ever been there.Even if the details are not accurate, the emotional power of the story makes it worth reading.
There is something about India that seems so beautiful and exotic and I just loved that this book was going to incorporate that rich culture.The summary sounded interesting but it was really the promise of something new and different culturally, that drew me into this story.Straight out of the gate, this book was impressive.
So reading books about women who are suddenly coming to terms with struggles or choices in their lives really stand out to me.While this was an excellent book with a stunning cultural aspect and setting, I felt the ending was a little rushed and a bit of a reach in terms of reality.
When her mother receives a letter from India that her father, Jaya's grandfather, is very ill.
Her mother tells Jaya that she won't go because her father forbade her to return to India after she married her husband.
When she arrives, she meets Ravi, an untouchable and her grandmother's servant and friend who informs her that her grandfather has died.
While in India, Ravi tells Jaya the story of Amisha, her grandmother.
Through the telling of her grandmother's story, can Jaya find healing?Although I purchased the audiobook for my daughter, she recommended that I also listen to it.
The narrator, Siiri Scott, brought the characters: Jaya, Amisha and Ravi to life.
Loved this book cried so many times, totally awesome.
3.5 starsI really enjoyed this book up until the last 10%, when it just got too cheesy and predictable and happy-endingy for me.
I have never written a Goodreads review before, but I am astounded this book got 4.47 stars.
It was totally predictable, trite, cheesy, melodramatic, and basically read like a cheap romance novel set in India.
The writing style was hard to stomach.
I normally read 6 books a month and this took me 3 weeks because I couldn’t bring myself to pick it up and finish it.
Spent endless hours playing FreeCell on my phone rather than pick up my Kindle.
Not sure why I even finished it but if I make it halfway I usually try to finish.
I know I am in the minority here, but I found this book boring and most of the characters unlikable especially Jaya. The story was predictable and it read like a cheesy, badly written romance novel. I also had nagging suspicions about the author's description of India that were later confirmed. When writing about other cultures more care needs to be taken, otherwise it ends up being a sloppy novel.
This book was another lovely Indian culture, which I am kinda stuck on now, and loving it. the story was very predictable for me, but I still gave it 4 🌟🌟🌟🌟, because of the lovely storytelling and culture.
I didn’t want this book to end! I was totally transported to India in both the present & the past!
Modern literature at its finest!I could not put this novel down! I absolutely loved the characters and the story. My tears were real and my joy was real. Please read this!
This book is clearly targeted at women, just not intelligent women. The text is plodding and pedestrian. The plot has a few twists but is overall predictable. If I had a nickel for every time a female character "teared up", "held back tears" or "stifled a sob", I'd be rich. Happy endings abound. Can't recommend.
I love reading novels set in India and this novel ticked all my boxes and then some. This awesome novel reads like a true-to-life story, and I read that the author based the story on her grandmother's life in British India. When you can read the plight of someone raised in a society with vastly different customs, and the strict adherence by most to those customs, and still feel empathy for them, then I feel that the story-line has soul. A solid 4 star.
Disappointing. Trite. Predictable. The only slightly redeeming factor is her servant who becomes her friend.
The author vividly describes the colorful cast of characters and the landscapes with great detail.Jaya, a journalist is devastated after her third miscarriage, and feels that her marriage is falling apart.
Jaya’s mother has never wanted to go back to India, and doesn’t discuss what happened.Jaya is determined as a journalist that she will write about her trip to India.
Why hasn’t Jaya’s mother ever told her about her grandmother?
Jaya visits the orphanage, and sees the discrimination among the different classes.I enjoyed the descriptions of the customs, holidays, foods, and people in India.
he told me once that people will forget many things, but they will never forget a person who shows them kindness. for some reason, maybe it has something to do with the books i've read so far, i always tend to associate books about india with, how do i say this, a hypocritical search for enlightenment. i associate the journey with a self-centered desire to feel better, by helping others in india where you're the exotic generous stranger (while obviously documenting just how generous you are) an
i associate the journey with a self-centered desire to feel better, by helping others in india where you're the exotic generous stranger (while obviously documenting just how generous you are) and then going back to wherever you came from and still not doing anything to help the people back home.while i don't believe this book broke that - the main character has unexplored roots in india, she still kind of falls into that category for me - this book brought me so much more.this is a story about love, family, sacrifice, friendship, trust and stories.
Jaya is a young American born journalist of Indian descent.
When her mother receives word that Jaya's grandfather is dying in India, Jaya decides to go to India to meet a grandfather she has never met.
Jaya's mother has always been emotionally distant and unavailable, so Jaya goes to India in part to learn more about her mother's childhood.
Her grandfather has passed, but she meets an elderly faithful family servant ("the storyteller" a/k/a Ravi) who knew her mother.
Ravi slowly tells the story of Jaya's mother and grandmother.
This is a fascinating book about Indian culture, family relationships, love and loss.
Due to trouble in her marriage from the pain of multiple miscarriages, as well news from India about her mom’s estranged family, Jaya decides to go to India to escape/learn about her mom’s past.
She finds Ravi, her grandmother’s servant, who tells Jaya about Amisha’s complicated married life and tragic death.
This visit helps Jaya push through her personal struggles as she connects her family history to her current life.
However, there were many factual/timeline inconsistencies, and I found the writing exceedingly ordinary and predictable, and had to push myself to finish the book.
If you’re given to tears, you will cry, if you’ve been through miscarriage, it may be a bit of a trigger so beware, but overall it’s a beautiful story of love and hope and self realization.I rate this somewhere in between 3 and 4 stars because even though the story is beautiful, the plot is engaging and well-paced and the writing is stellar, I just couldn’t get past some of the suspensions of belief required for this book.
First of all, I question Ravi’s ability to narrate some of the happenings of the past and to know the intimacies of Amisha’s love story.
This novel is a well-written train wreck. While the modern part of the novel is relatable, the British Raj part is barely researched in terms of societal set-up and even amenities available at the time. The basic writing is good, but the utter lack of research, even the basic kind, was a complete let down.
Overall just average for me. I would have given it a 4 until about halfway through but then it just got too mushy. The conversations and relationships seemed unrealistic and phony to me. I guess I'm not with the in crowd on this one.
It blends a bittersweet love story with impressive information about India, past and present.
Through the eyes of a young woman visiting, we learn about the country's history, its unusual traditions and customs, and the joyful celebrations.The difficult life of women and the deplorable caste system are part of an engrossing story.
There is love, unity and joy as the people come together for sacred events.In this background two ill-fated lovers realize the impossibility of ever being together.
It is a tale that goes way beyond the story teller and her secret.
It touches on matters in India which truly exist in many countries and need to be addressed.
Manipulative and unrealistic, but very absorbing if you are willing to suspend belief.
In India she meets Ravi, the devoted servant of her dead grandmother Anisha, who unravels her family's hidden history.
Anisha's story is well told, if unbelievable, in particular the close friendship she develops with the "untouchable" Ravi whom she hires as a servant.
However, Anisha's story, an arranged marriage, her need to tell (and write) her stories and her desire to learn is the best part of the book.
It is easy reading, and if you can suspend belief and ignore some of the silliness, it may be worth your time.
