https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6342491-the-demon-king
Hanalea's blood and bones, I just found a new obsession!!Wow. It's been a while since the last time I read YA fantasy, and I'd almost forgotten why I love this genre so much! The Demon King certainly had its flaws, but it was so riveting and bewitching that I lost the X-Factor final last night in order to finish it and I suspect I'm going to spend the following days lost in this series, with coffee and ice-cream as my sole companions! Burn you social life!And by fun, I mean books.  “Han always s
I won't pretend I didn't notice the similarities between The Demon King and Falling Kingdoms, especially regarding the characters of Raisa and Cleo and their love interests, but Cinda Williams Chima's writing style is original and her storytelling skills mark her as a great YA fantasy author!
I loved the way she entwined Han and Raisa's stories, adding interesting and important secondary characters and the events that happened hundreds of years ago, with the war between the wizards and the Demon King and the part queen Hanalea and the clans played.
We want to know why Halt seems to have an interest in him, and what his fate might be after being denied every profession he hoped for.In Brian Jacques' Redwall by chapter 4 (which, by the way is only ten pages into the book) You've been introduced to the villain, the protagonist, the love interest and the mentor.
TEN PAGES and Redwall is already a more compelling, and better set up story than The Demon King, and it is a book about MICE!!!By the time that you get four chapters into a young adult book you should know the setting, the characters, and have a pretty good idea about what is in store for them.
I wasn't sure what to expect from The Demon King but my expectations were pretty high considering how I went into this book comparing it to the Falling Kingdoms series.
Although this book did have similarities to Falling Kingdoms, it's definitely its own separate story.One of the things I didn't like about The Demon King was the slow pacing.
It starts off a bit slow but once the story picks up, you won't be able to put this book down!
This book lays a good foundation for the rest of the series, but it definitely drags at times and the story doesn't really get started until the end. I love the protagonists. They have a ton of room for growth. My biggest complaint was the abundance of love interests, but at least it wasn't the main theme of the story. Just a pet peeve of mine. I plan to continue with the series and I'm excited to see where it goes.
Probably even more like 4.5/5 starsI was not expecting to like this book as much as I did - I just got it on a whim and thought this will be fun!
And it was fun, and hecka addicting.
I loved the world building and the story, but mostly I just loved getting lost in a fantasy book without a lot of complicated magic systems and things to keep track of.
It was so fun to just lose myself in it.It took a bit for me to get into at first but once I was in I WAS IN TOO DEEP.Definitely loved this and will be continuing on ASAP!
I'm thinking that, perhaps, the reason I enjoyed this so much more the second time around was because I knew where everything was headed.And make NO mistake.
<---just my opinion.Original 2012 review:3 starsIt's not exactly a fast-paced read, but I enjoyed it enough to grab the second book in the series.
It wasn't as bad as adult fantasy tends to be, so that may be why I enjoyed the book.It read more like a book that's setting up the next book, if that makes any sense.I'm rambling, aren't I?Yes.Ok. I really liked The Demon King, and I'm going to read the next one.The End.
But since I know how this series ends the slow burn of it makes everything way more believable and real and I totally love that.However at the moment I'm totally #team Amon because *rawr* (a little secret though....Han will steal my heart in the end) but this is totally Amon's book to shine.Original Bad Review (this is one of my very first) May 2013We follow two separate characters of Raisa the princess and heir to the throne and Han Alister a street wise boy with a pair of magical cuffs on his wrists that he has had since infancy.
I love this book specfically its POVs: We have the village idiot and the spoiled princess. Except thats just the surface. There is so much more to them and i think i loved how their sterotypes were used against them. The village idiot with mysterious cuffs on his arm that have symbols that literally no ome gets.  “Maybe if you knew how to use them, you could— I don’t know—shoot flames from the palms of your hands.'Han was thinking he was just as likely to shoot flames from his rear end” Both hav
I love this book specfically its POVs: We have the village idiot and the spoiled princess.
“Right, Raisa thought.
If there ever comes a day that I can’t get into more mischief than Mellony, I’ll cut my own throat.”
She fears that the wizards are becoming too powerful and when a certain high lord begins to controls the queen's thoughts or perspectives, she decides to take action on her own.
Han kidnaps Raisa.
(Have i mentioned how much I love Raisa??)It was a mysterious world of clans, high lords, and several conflicting stories about the old powerful Demon King....*highly recommend!!!
Despite my reading slump that drove me to DNF more books that I'm comfortable with yesterday, despite today being my last day of vacations and as usual busy as hell, despite the objective flaws of The Demon King, I couldn't stop reading for the life of me, and closed my reader at 6am pretty exhausted.Worst is, I'm fighting the urge to start The Exiled Queen right now, and I can count on the finger of one hand the number of times it happened with a YA Fantasy series.
Even better the second time around. How’s it possible that I still want to go back and start all over again?
It has everything I want and love in an epic fantasy.
OMG?!?!?"Epic Things This Book Has That Makes My Small Heart Pleased:• It has a Matriarchy and a Queendom.
I've only read detailed magic systems in Brandon Sanderson's books so it was mega pleasing to have that here too.• THIEVES.
But it didn't because everything else was so so glorious.)Oh and I feel like one of the people groups of the book were influenced by Native American culture!
Plus I loved how there were so many cultures and groups of people in here.
Uhh... WELL. I don't really know what went wrong with me and this book.I was supposed to enjoy it.I was supposed to really enjoy it. I was totally expecting to really enjoy it. But sadly, I didn't.I have heard so much praise for author Cinda Williams Chima, but for now I'm left wishing I could see what so many others have seen in her books.I actually had a weird experience where I was under the impression that this series was a completely different story than it turned out to be. I'm sure that's
I should've just reread the damn synopsis like a regular person would.Anyway, we follow two main protagonists:Han, former leader of a thieving street gang, primary caretaker of his younger sister & mother, curious type willing to take possession of any ol' amulet even though might potentially kill him.Rasia, princess heir to the Fells, cares about making the lives of her citizens better, has too many love interests.
It's not cute, it's gross.Even when individual situations between characters are meant to be dramatic or interesting, I just could not force myself to engage.This was my face while I trekked my way through this book:The only thing I truly liked here was the political elements (surprise, surprise).
Especially a kick-butt high fantasy like this one.Chima has masterfully created an intriguing world, with a cast full of memorable characters.The chapters somewhat alternate between Han and Raisa.
Divulging the depth of each character and the world around them, presented in their own P.O.V. I love when authors do this.
I didn't even begin to try to figure out where this story was going to take me, I had some inclinations (and they happened to be right) but it was nice just to go with the flow and let the story lead me where it wanted me to go.The writing...
Guys, I'm literally screaming, THAT WAS SUCH AN AMAZING READ???? I feel so satisfied akdjskdj RTC!!!!
The worldbuilding really took the time to establish the history of the queendom's bloodline, the wizards, and the clans, so the whole series is set up really well now.The story is mainly told through the POVs of Princess Raisa and an ex-streetlord kid named Han. I wasn't a huge fan of him at the beginning because his story dragged a bit, but then he turned out to be straight up adorable.
He was raised by the clans and meets up with the other main characters at various points, but still kind of has his own thing going until the direction of everyone's storylines ties together at the end.
I like all of the characters at this point!
Initial thoughts....This is going to be a quick review because really I just want to read book #2 after all the raving reviews from friends...
(though I'll probably come back and update this review later.
street gangs...
yeah baby.
Love it.
I think most of this book was a nice set up for things to come.
There are several characters just brimming with possibilities.
but I'll take what I can get...), and another character is basically a mix between Day (from Legend) and Liam (from Darkest Minds).
(hide spoiler)]OOOOK gonna go read book 2 because I don't want to wait.
Court intrigue, captivating characters, intricate plotting, enticing romances, and brilliant world building coalesce to deliver the best high fantasy story EVER.
Because this is the first of a trilogy, Han and Raisa do not quite get to ah, know each other's true identity yet, but this only adds to the thrill of the story and to my keen anticipation for book 2.
It is reminiscent of Tamora Pierce's works in several ways, and because personally I am a huge fan of Pierce, this could only add to my love of the story.
This is mostly in Raisa's portion of the story, but in Han's end there is romance as well.
WOW. Definitely adding this to my favorites list. I'm mad at myself for waiting so long to read this... If you love fantasy... READ THIS.Full Book Discussion on YouTube: https://youtu.be/H8PNsCSn3Zk
She tries her best to warn Queen Marianna, her mother, about forthcoming threats on the kingdom but her mother turns a blind eye towards it.Initially, the book felt it was dragging every ounce of patience and tolerance within me but I kept reading because I didn't want to leave it unread and lose a chance for getting to know what exactly made some of my friends like this book.
The climax of the story created internal conflict of emotions within me because at first I was definitely going to give a negative review but I couldn't after reading everything.The characters had depth and intriguing spark with their own charisma which kept building up.
DNF - No rating. I am just in the mood for something more robust. After 25% nothing had really grabbed me yet.
4.5 stars
SPOILER-FREE REVIEW! I really enjoyed this book. It wasn't what I expected but nonetheless, it was good. This book is so slow at the beginning. It picks up roughly after chapter 12/13, or page 200 or so. It's definitely a build up book. There's so much world building in this book it's crazy, and I have to say, it was one of my favorite parts about this book. I listened to most of this book on audiobook because I was struggling to get into it, so if you seem to have the same problem, I recommend
Even if you might feel like a boy who thinks himself a little handsome might sway her in anything involving her Queendom, you're wrong.
I didn't find myself bored whatsoever reading the parts that involved world building.
The PlotThis book is just a build up for the main plot.
An evident plot doesn't appear in this book till the very last end.
There are, of course, parts where I found to useless to the plot, but they were good for character introduction.
I feel like I truly, now, know both world and characters well enough to get to the butter of this series.
Reviewed at The Honest Bookclub.4.5Han Alister:• a drifter and a grifter• a life of perpetual uncertainty• a home he can't visit and a foster camp he can't call home.Raisa ana'Marianna:• a princess• a life planned for her before she was even born• a home she can't leave, far from a camp she calls her real home.Han and Raisa are about to meet - in a world brought down by wizards but where wizards rule from the shadows, and in queendom run by a queen who circumvents conflict. They'll meet in stree
And though Han and Raisa's worlds are about to collide, their stories will unveil separately.Needless to say, The Demon King is a wonderful mass of contradictions.
A fantasy book/series can go wrong, of course.
Even in camps which adhere to very few rules of the queendom, the matriarchs are in charge, and women are beyond respected.•	The story touches on some themes explored in The Giver - the curse of one who sees the world for what it is clearly, and who knows it for what it was.•	NO ONE writes teenagers like Cinda Williams Chima.
Creepy implications here.Raisa also kisses Amon a couple times but he makes it clear that anything more than friendship with her would compromise his ability to do his job.(view spoiler)[Han takes the disguised Raisa captive and holds her in a basement overnight.
(view spoiler)[They turn out to be not demons, but wizards (hide spoiler)].ConclusionsI read this book for the first time two or three years ago and didn’t enjoy it at all.
Those of you who count Eugenides (Queen’s Thief series), George Cooper (Song of the Lioness), and Vidanric of Shevraeth (Crown Duel) among your book boyfriends will probably take to Hanson Alister.
Han and Raisa?This was a very enjoyable, well-structured book with a great world and delightful characters.
Caitlin really enjoyed the book and told me I'd have to push through the first 10 chapters because they are slow and confusing and then the book would get really good.
I get that first books in series are usually slow because of all the world-building and that, but it's not okay for me when the entirety of the book is boring as all hell.
His chapters were the most confusing and I didn't understand where his plot was going.
I didn't expect to enjoy this book so much but I ended up loving it!
The world building, setting, and characters were everything I look for in a fantasy book!
I guess you can say this first book in the series was pretty much 500 pages of introducing and setting up the plot.
And all the trouble and adventure kicks off when Han, one of the two main characters, takes home a magical amulet that turns out might be connected to the legend of the Demon King (the wizard that almost ended their world a thousand years before).
I loved Raisa as the heroine of the story.
HOLY YES. THIS BOOK. THIS FREAKING BOOK.My slump is officially over. The only problem now is: do I carry on with the Pokémon Readathon, do I finish my towering TBR or do I carry on with this series?I need more Han. And Raisa. And Amon. I NEED MORE. *flails*
However, I instantly formed a connection to Raisa and I adored her throughout the entire book - she's definitely my favourite character.
I think this was definitely because of the fact that her story seemed to be easier to follow and even though there were lots of characters in her plot, you could still easily understand the dynamic.
I really struggled with his chapters for about maybe half of the book but it definitely got easier when you understood who was who and what the hell was happening in his life.
I want to see way more of their interactions and, from the blurb of the next book, there will be lots of them together.
He called her Briar Rose, he said, because of her beauty. And her many thorns.   It's not often that I find a YA fantasy series that enraptures me the way this one did. It's no secret that I am very picky when it comes to reading these, as well. Needless to say, I've been side-eyeing this series for FOREVER, yet I have never taken the plunge. I've mentioned it to a couple of my closest friends and have felt there was something special about it for a long while. So why not leap right in then? I
Because I waited, though, here I am getting to post a more coherent review than any of my poor Nevermore books did, and that breaks my heart, because there will never be enough time in my life to go back and re-write all those mini-reviews.
All I really wanted to portray in this review for my great friends is this: This story was addicting beyond words, creative beyond measure, and Han will steal your heart before you even realize the little thief has weaseled his way into your soul-He has an uncanny knack for such things.
Maybe because so much is constantly going on, it leaves me a bit stumped as to how to summarize everything in an eloquent fashion.Fans of traditional fantasy, whether it be adult or YA, will most likely appreciate this series.
The Demon King read very much like a slightly scaled down version of a good adult epic fantasy - not much was held back for the sake of a younger audience.From the good to the evil characters, I found most, if not all, of them interesting.
This doesn't happen often for me in books, which makes me look forward to reading the next installment.
