https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/187020.Empire_Falls
Not realizing the full story of how events fit together, even as an adult, the main character does not understand that the widow runs people as well as the town and that she is wreaking vengeance on him in subtle but vicious ways.Along the way we get glimpses of modern American life in such a has-been place.
Miles is a good and decent man who did not always dream of flipping burgers and taking care of the grill, in fact at one time he had promising opportunities slated for his future.
The vast majority of  the real estate and by extension the job opportunities in Empire Falls are owned  and controlled by the Whiting family or to be more precise, Francine Whiting.
The real bounty here lay in the character development of the residents of Empire Falls that we largely come to know through Miles Roby.
People speak of selfishness, but that’s another folly, because of course there’s no such thing."I’ve been pondering this quote for some time now after having finished Richard Russo’s Pulitzer Prize winning novel, Empire Falls.
Empire Falls centers on the lives of those characters that live in this small town of Maine.
And yet, I found myself nearly holding my breath towards the end of the book; I was that entangled with the lives of the characters.
What I came to realize in the end is that we should each grab hold of our dreams, take control of our circumstances, and in fact change the direction of that river.
I haven’t read any other novel by Richard Russo, but starting on  Empire Falls  felt like going to a party where you don’t know anybody, starting up a conversation with a stranger, and finding that you are kindred souls, ending up on the balcony talking and talking and talking about life, the universe and everything until the sun comes up.Empire Falls is about a small factory town in Maine (paper and textile mills), after the industry has packed its bags and left for a third world country.
This was my first taste of Richard Russo's wonderful prose and lifelike characters.
The book follows the lives of Miles Roby and his family in the dying industrial town of Empire Falls, Maine.
The town itself is beautifully described throughout as the book transpires over a school year - Miles' daughter Tick's senior year at Empire High.
I really loved how Russo writes dialog (both exterior and interior) and his sense of humor and irony.
The way that Russo uses "beats" in dialogs greatly added to the realism.
Both the Prologue and Epilogue are wonderful bookends to the main story.
So much of the beauty of the book comes from Russo’s ability to build an entire town piece by piece, with POVs from characters that range in social standing and disposition, each serving to highlight another aspect of Empire Falls.
Russo also makes profound and poignant statements in the novel that make for some of the most personally genuine writing I’ve ever read.
I loved the characters, the setting, and the overlapping pursuits, desires, and interactions of the township make for a novel that never once bored me through the entire read.
Miles Robey was on the verge of earning his college degree and escaping Empire Falls forever when he returned home to care for his dying mother and ended up working for Mrs. Whiting as the manager of the Empire Grill.Two decades later and Miles is a middle aged punching bag still slinging burgers who probably bursts into tears every time he hears Pearl Jam’s Elderly Woman Behind the Counter in a Small Town.
We meet Miles' younger brother David, a chief cook and former alcoholic; as well as their difficult father Max and their late mother Grace through a number of flashbacks; we meet Janine's arrogant fiancé Walt Comeau, police officer Jimmy Minty who holds a grudge against Miles, his son Zack who has once been involved with Tick; and of course Francine Whiting, the widow of the wealthiest man of Empire Falls who now owns half of the town - and particularly Miles.Richard Russo introduces us to a huge amount of other characters as well, making it appear that it is rather easy to lose track of who is actually who and which character has which characteristics.
Bittersweet story about everyday life in a small town, or so it seems. I have to admit that I was a little bored at the beginning of it (the prologue was a little dry, in my opinion), but once I got into the present-day scenario, Russo gradually brought the storyline to a powerful culmination and held my interest to the end.
Character-driven novels are a gamble because if they are not handled correctly, they can crash and burn before they’ve taken off.
Plot-driven novels are a safer bet, but then you’d miss out on an opportunity to really provoke your reader.
I liked Empire Falls primarily because of how real Miles and Max and Mrs. Whiting, etc.
Somehow Miles inspires hope in the reader, and Max’s frustrating personality actually serves to make a point (in addition to providing comic relief), which is that you don’t actually have to take life so seriously.
She has struggled more than any other character in the novel and yet she presents herself stoically.
Winner of the 2002 Pultizer Prize, this novel has been reviewed many, many times in the last decade.
One of those rare times when all the hype is actually true.
To that end, I quote:“[Russo] is one of the best novelists around....As the pace quickens and the disparate threads of the narrative draw tighter, you find yourself torn between the desire to rush ahead and the impulse to slow down” The New York Times Book Review“Immensely satisfying...[Russo is] an unpretentious master of fictional technique whose deeper wisdom expresses itself in the distinctive fallibility, decency, humour and grace of the indisputably, irresistibly real people he puts on the page.” The Boston Globe“Russo writes with a warm, vibrant humanity....A stirring mix of poignancy, drama and comedy” The Washington Post“The history of American literature may show that Richard Russo wrote the last great novel of the 20th century” The Christian Science MonitorThis rates as one of the best novels I have read in the last decade.
And, inertia in this story is true to its nature – it takes an out-of-the-ordinary event to knock loose inertia and set things back in motion.Which is all beginning to sound like a fairly gloomy book, as I look over what I’ve written.
Although there needed to be a turning point event to knock Miles Roby out of his inertia, I think the author went a bit over the top.
The town is in decline and the novel presents numerous characters and plots and overtells most of them, rather than let everyone speak for himself or circumstances to reveal meaning, the author piles on the evidence and looks in on character’s thinking without revealing their complexity.
Too much of the storytelling is pedestrian, though Russo can handle both description and characterization ably when he wants to, he often settles for a speedwritten, colloquial prose that doesn’t come to life.And there is a meanness embedded in his descriptions of some characters (the Whitings, the Mintys, Janine Roby and her new husband) that borders on hypocrisy when balanced with the forbearance he presents some characters, whose behaviors, or at least motives seem not too far different from the less favored.
This is a great American novel, following the intertwined lives of the residents of Empire Falls, Maine.
Empire Falls is a declining mill town, lorded over by the baronial Whiting clan.
It covers several generations, focusing mostly on the present day and recalling the past.
Like all small towns, this is one with secrets, good guys and bad, but all the characters are drawn richly, with respect.
It is a masterpiece.Some of the characters make moral decisions and take the consequences of their actions.
Decisions are made for moral reasons and characters pay willingly for their sins.
I had actually seen the HBO miniseries based on this a few years back and enjoyed it but didn't think about reading the book until someone told me it's everything Twilight isn't: well-written, complicated, fully-developed characters, good story, strong dialogue, etc, etc.Sold!
It's like Russo has dropped the reader into this world to grab a seat at the diner and watch small town life unfold.
Sure, he's creating these characters so he should know their dearest secrets and every emotion, but they're so realistically written that it feels like he's reading the mind of an actual person.I could go on, but really, just read it.
This time the setting is a small town in New England, once dominated by a shirt factory established by the Whiting family.
We are to learn a good deal more about C.B. Whiting and Miles Roby as this story plays out.For me the charm in Russo’s stories are in the small interactions between characters we become familiar with – typically, it seems, through gatherings and discussions at the local bar or café.
Russo once again drew me into a gentle tale of small town folk, but this time one with more of a punch.
But Russo is a great writer and there were passages of sheer brilliance, humor, and heartbreak depicting working class people in a dying town.Empire Falls is controlled by a rich black widow who owns it all and has the townspeople, especially Miles, spun up in cocoons to feed on when she needs to express her venom.
As is often the case, a great writer can have his way with the reader and the destination often justifies the journey getting there.
Guessing he won't be reading the book either.https://www.amazon.com/Empire-Falls-P...
It follows the every day lives of the residents of Empire Falls, a small town in Maine, that has seen better days.
I loved the ‘setting the scenes’ chapter at the beginning of the book, showing the town in a more prosperous time when the mill and shirt factory were open and employment was high.Now Miles manages the Empire Grill restaurant.
Miles is a great character and seeing the town and it’s residents through his eyes is amusing and touching.
I half-way expected to find it sligthly boring for that same reason, simpy because I tend to like books with a fair amount of action.
And "Empire Falls" has very little action.But man, this book is so well written, I had to stop and curse out loud several times, being a writer myself.
It felt almost like reading a soap opera, but with great actors and a huge budget.
When I did put this novel down, it was often during one of these chapters.But all in all, Empire Falls is a great American novel in its original sense.
2.5 Stars Empire Falls by Richard Russo is a story about relationships and life in a small town called Empire Falls in Maine.The stroy is extremely well written and the characters are very well developed. I felt at times I was looking in the windows of the characters homes and watching them live life on a daily basis. The relationship between the characters was so well portrayed and a wonderful sense of time and place comes across in the novel. Having said that I still just found the Novel  OK
2.5 Stars Empire Falls by Richard Russo is a story about relationships and life in a small town called Empire Falls in Maine.The stroy is extremely well written and the characters are very well developed.
The relationship between the characters was so well portrayed and a wonderful sense of time and place comes across in the novel.
What started out as an interesting and entertaining read became tedious and I looked forward to finishing the story.
To sum up I found the writing and the character development excellent and I enjoyed how he portrayed relationships in this small town.
A serious novel about small towns where everyone knows everyone else - and has for generations. I loved this book, as melancholy as it was. I loved the history of the characters and the town itself - although you really could not separate the two. Russo is one of my new favorite authors. He has such compassion for his characters.
Empire Falls  is not something I would have picked up on my own, but it came to me highly recommended, so I put a hold on the audiobook at my library and it finally came in. This was a wonderful book and Ron McLarty is an excellent narrator. I can't really add to what hundreds of people have already said, so I'll just say I enjoyed the hell out of this tale, where nothing much really happens, but I feel like I know everyone in this town intimately. Highly recommended!
It's nevertheless an excellent book, and one I don't feel much need to review at length; my friend Jennifer, who both recommended the book to me and lent me her copy, has already written a brilliant assessment.
(The novel feels, at times, like a book-length meditation on the poem "This Be The Verse," by Philip Larkin: "They fuck you up, your mum and dad.
There's no way we should want to spend time with Russo's Max Roby, yet Russo is such a talented writer that we not only suffer him but develop as much begrudging affection for him as his sons Miles and David have.I've already written more about "Empire Falls" than I intended to.
For if the untamable river of life makes empires, like Mrs. Whiting, fall.
They hear you talk and maybe they’re thinking the same thing you are, except they can’t say it like you do and they know they won’t ever get credit.
“And there comes a time in your life when you realize that if you don't take the opportunity to be happy, you may never get another chance again.” The thing is unfulfilled dreams, as with Miles, will always stay with you.
With your experience, you know that not every dream comes to pass.
Russo delicately weaves together the stories of the residents of a small town in Maine struggling through economic downtimes. Russo's characters are complex, his prose is warm and his plot is intriguing without being too convoluted or self-important. One of the best books I have ever read, I couldn't pick up anything else for two days after finishing this one.
At first, I thought oh well, seems like a nice book to get into, let yourself be carried in that little town through the story and the characters.
Action, well, we know what happened through the talking to each other of the characters, or (worse) through the memories (written in italics, and that for pages and pages).
Still, this book could have last forever, until the characters die of too much talking to each other.
I read a lot of reviews, talking about the "atmosphere of that town" - you cannot write a book to try to create atmosphere over more than 500 pages.
EMPIRE FALLS is one of my favorite novels. The audio book version is superb, as it is narrated by Ron McLarty. HBO also did a fine job with the film production.
wonderful book and movie!
Awesome storytelling. Juicy, funny, sad subplots and characters, and some just plain crazy good writing. Took me a while to get into the story, then had to finish the whole book in a weekend once it got good. Rust belt blues.
It is sarcastic, mean humor where you are supposed to laugh at the stupidity or crude behavior of people.
Let me point out that I never shy away from gruesome events in history, but what is the point here in reading about how people behave so cruelly to one another?
Would somebody who loves this book explain to me why I should continue reading.
Perfect sitcom dialogs.In desperation I went and read spoiler reviews......
I will be reading no more books by Richard Russo.
So if you want to read this book don't hesitate to choose the audio format and this narrator.
