https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6968312-the-bront-s-went-to-woolworths
Sorry, Ms Ferguson, I am not your fan. This particular book was quite complicated for me. Almost everything flew over my head -- the story, the humour, the characters, the dialogues (especially those in French), etc, etc. It was a traumatised experience.
I first ran across this in Lucasta Miller's The Bronte Myth.
Virago reprinted it a few years back, but it's currently out of print again; I was pleased when Powell's emailed me that they had a copy.
The three Carne girls live with their mother and the youngest girl's governess, in a London house inhabited by the people of their imagination, real people whom the family have made up stories about and turned into imaginary friends.
When Deirdre, the eldest, meets one of these imaginary friends in real life, and the Brontes appear during a séance, the Carnes have to figure out how to reconcile their fantasy life with reality.
That said, there are a lot of interesting things explored in what is essentially a slender volume -- about identity ("Toddy" begins to take on the characteristics of his imagined counterpart because he has never imagined himself in such detail), "good" and "bad" imagination (the governess who is generally treated as quite commonplace writes letters to herself "from" the man she hopes will propose to her), and class (the Carnes prove themselves to be snobs, rejecting in real life characters they "love" in the game).And anyway, there really isn't another book quite like this.
The family has invented a whole passel of imaginary friends (often based on real life people) and guests who have become a part of their daily lives.
But one day Deirdre is sent to cover a charity bazaar at which she meets the real Lady Toddington and is invited to her home for tea.Comments: This really is quite some book!
It all seemed rather strange to have twenty year olds living an imaginary life and I wondered what I had got myself into reading!
The governess, recently hired, is a drop of reason for the reader as she writes to her sister of the "weird" family and "weird" goings on.
This mix of fantasy and reality is utterly mad, and very charming.The Carne sisters, and their mother live a fantasy life in the midst of their real existence - Katrine is an aspiring actress, Diedre a journalist, their eleven year old sister Sheil is in the rather pitiful control of troubled governess, Miss Martin - who is driven rather mad herself by the stories and make believe.
When Diedre meets the real life "Lady Mildred" and "Toddy" the objects of the Carne's "Saga" reality and make believe begin to merge.
The Carne family lives a blurry line between reality and fantasy.
It's blurry to the beginning reader, anyway.
Ferguson gave me lots to think about re: imagination and what makes something real.
I got this from the library, but I think I'm going to need my own copy so that I can re-visit the sharp comments and dialogue.
This is not a Persephone book, but Ferguson is a Persephone author.
Brocket may very well like it, but I think I got her confused with another blogger.) I'm now considering buying the Persephone copy of Ferguson's ALAS, POOR LADY, because it deals with governesses from a different perspective.
And while I didn't actually dislike the book (and I certainly applaud Bloomsbury for bringing back these early 20th century works), finishing it was a struggle at times.The story is, in part, narrated by Deirdre Carne, one of three sisters living with their widowed mother in 1930s London: Deirdre is a journalist working on her first novel, Katrine is an aspiring actress, and the youngest, Sheil, is still at home being looked after by her governess Miss Agatha Martin (my favorite character).
I believe the reader's enjoyment of the book is probably completely tied up with whether or not you succumb to the (supposed) charm of the narrator and her seemingly deranged family.
And aren't some of those the best conversations?The fun really starts when some of their imaginary friends impinge on their real lives; but I must say the "paranormal" Bronte thread doesn't really fit.
I felt that there was a little backstory missing there, though of course as we know "table turning" (ie ouija), seances and all forms of occultic messing about were very popular in those days.That said, it is refreshing to read a novel set in the 20s and 30s that was actually written then.
Since I enjoy all of those in fiction, I found it a delight, albeit a difficult to describe one.The Brontes Went to Woolworths throws you, from the very first page, right into the rich fantasy life of the Carne family, a trio of sisters and their widowed mother.
She also throws in an occasional letter from a governess to her family, so we get glimpses of how the family is perceived by outsiders.About midway through the book, Deirdre, the oldest sister and primary teller of their story, meets an object of their fantasy lives: Lord Doddington, an elderly judge with whom the family became infatuated when their mother had jury duty.
For the first half I had difficulty even figuring out which characters were real, imaginary, real but personally unknown to the other real characters, or ghosts.
By the second half of the book I had that figured out...for the most park.
But this all gets super complicated when the oldest sister is actually introduced to one of the most prominent characters in their fantasies, a court judge and his wife.
We the reader find out this is all in one persons head who actually IS in an alysum and the normal people in her live (doctors, nurses, other patients) are these other characters in her massive delusion.
Three sisters and their widowed mother (and their succession of stuffy governesses) entertain themselves by learning all they can about, for example, the judge presiding over the trial on which the mother is a reserve juror.Judge Toddington and his wife, in the imaginations of the girls, come to tea and invite them to dinner.
The careless reader, like the confused governess, may not recognize at first that these activities are entirely in the minds of the characters.Until the day when one of the girls meets the judge's wife in real life and begins a friendship with her and Toddy that soon includes the entire family.
In some ways, I would compare this to Muriel Spark's wry and complex little novels--except that Ferguson's characters are, in fact, likable.Hint for readers who find this book challenging: I read the first few chapters and then started over from the beginning, which helped a lot.
Ferguson just drops you into the weirdness with no force-feeding of exposition, so the book takes a fair amount of concentration to "master," but it's very much worth the effort.
We find out the two older sisters, Katrine and Deidre, have a deep abiding love for the theater with the Katrine trying to make her way into that world.
The poor governess who teaches Sheil cannot tell where fantasy begins and reality leaves off with this odd family.
fantasy is where the book's dilemma lies.The day comes when Deidre gets to meet the wife of a judge that her family's become obsessed with.
At first, the pretend world Deidre leads us into seems so refreshing and crazy and delightful but as we watch Sheil unable to cope with the real judge rather than the fantasy version of the judge her family made, we see the possible cost of this enchanting world.
An adorable little book. As an only child who actively imagined social lives with toys and tv show characters, this book gained a special place for being about a family that collectively imagined such things. And written in a beautiful style. A lovely book, written about nothing in particular, to make you forget how troubling the world can be today.
A brilliant and neglected out of print classic. A family of three sisters and their mother live a slightly eccentric and bohemian life. They make imaginary friends of strangers and build wonderful stories around them perplexing a string of governesses. But things change when they really meet some of their friends and have a ghostly visitation from some other sisters -the Brontes.
So thanks again, Chris, because I think I just found my new favourite book.It is 1930s England and the Carne sisters - Deirdre, a journalist and hopeful author; Katrine, a drama student; and Sheil, their much younger sister - are deep in a make-believe world of their own creation.
He and his wife, Lady Mildred, become familiar figures in the Crane household, complete with in-jokes (Toddy and Katrine sometimes argue, and Toddy's refrain is to ask to be introduced to this young lady, again), a court assistant who takes pride in choosing Toddy's lunch every day, and help with Deirdre's first novel.At a summer holiday in Yorkshire - which none of them enjoyed - they had a go at table-turning, in which they communicated with the Brontë sisters and agreed to have them visit the Carnes at home.
Fortunately, it was short and I rattled through to the end, finishing at what felt like a sprint and then reached gasping for something less cloying (A God In Ruins here we come!) This novel features the Carne family; the mother and then the three sisters, Deirdre, Katrine and then little Sheil.
There is a muffled tragedy to what is going on here as Deirdre repeatedly has her novel rejected and Katrine's acting career flounders, then in the background there is the stoically miserably governess but the over-arching silliness of it all made me lose all patience.
I felt as though I finished the book with a real scowl on my face.
This book is not suited to an audio format; moreover, the narration makes the situation worse.We're dropped "in media res" as it were, and expected to keep track of all the many names bandied about; the closest I could manage was to distinguish new ones, from those previously introduced.
At first I had thought the action was set in the 1930's, but by the end it seemed much earlier; I never got an idea of the ages of the kids either, assuming roughly that the oldest was university age, the middle (through whose voice we hear the story) a high school student, and the youngest in later grade school?
Instead, it's incredibly confusing hearing an American voice blithely quoting prices in "bobs" etc.
I didn't want it to end, but as is the case with a large number of outstanding books, this one ended far too soon, after a mere 188 pages.
As soon as I became engrossed in it I loved it for its quirky, true-to-life and unconventional characters, the author's remarkably light-hearted style – which is no less unconventional – and the recurring motives of love of literature, theatre, the festive season, allusions to Yorkshire & the Brontës … And last but not least the bonds of sisterhood.
But thanks to the narrator's sarcasm and wit even those awkward passages in the subplot are given a lively twist.Oh, and this is one of the few books where I loved both the content and the design/type/paper etc.
In this charming book, albeit inconsequential in the way that fun novels about the upper class usually are, the Carne family draws us in and confuses us with their vivid imaginary world in which they know celebrities they've never actually met...until they do. I can't say that this story was fantastic in any way, but it worked its way into my daily life all the same.Mostly, I adored the spunky and spot-on commentary of the protag, Deirdre Carne, and especially her perspectives on:a. Romance: "Th
In this charming book, albeit inconsequential in the way that fun novels about the upper class usually are, the Carne family draws us in and confuses us with their vivid imaginary world in which they know celebrities they've never actually met...until they do.
I can't say that this story was fantastic in any way, but it worked its way into my daily life all the same.Mostly, I adored the spunky and spot-on commentary of the protag, Deirdre Carne, and especially her perspectives on:a.
For Holmes and his personality and brain I had a force of feeling which, for the time, converted living men to shadows."b.
I couldn't accept the man, much as I liked him, because I was in love with Sherlock Holmes."Only a book lover, a sort of book-addict, could write those sentences, and they made feel connected to the author in a way that it's difficult for many other readers (but not addicts) to understand.
And seeing someone put those feelings into one laugh-out-loud sentence earned my admiration without reserve.The book became a sort of treasure hunt looking for more of these diamonds and trying to figure it all out.
Now that I have, however, I expect the next read will earn the 4 stars I gave the book in this review.
The Carne sisters, Deirdre (the narrator), Katrine, and little Sheil, have a lighthearted habit of pretending to close friendships with people they have met only briefly or perhaps not at all; they tell each other stories of their imagined intimacies, and it becomes hard for the reader at times (for me, at least) to differentiate the real from the imagined.
I found the book hard going at first - a little bit dull, really - until the girls actually have a real-life encounter with the wife of one of their most beloved imagined friends, Judge Toddinton ("Toddy", who, according to the girls, pops in often when he is bored and "wholly adores" lamb cutlets.) That part is great fun.I wasn't so keen on the way the girls treated Sheil's confused governess, whose bewilderment with their fantasies is mocked rather mercilessly.
I couldn't accept the man, much as I liked him, because I was in love with Sherlock Holmes.
For Holmes and his personality and brain I had a force of feeling which, for the time, converted living men to shadows".Oooh there is so much to love about this strange little book!
Deirdre lives with her two younger sisters and mothers in 1930s London, much like any other family.
However, the sisters and their mother are prone to creating complete worlds and personalities about real people they've never met.
The sisters meet in real life one of their fantasies and shenanigans follow.
This book I think would benefit from a re-read now that I have a better idea of what goes on.
It’s a fun look at what happens when reality meets fantasy though I wonder if that benefits from the time period.
I do know I probably wouldn’t have finished it if it hadn’t been a First Read win, but I’m glad I did, it’s worth pushing through to the end and might be a fun book club book just to hear other people’s opinions on what was real, and what was fantasy for these characters.
This somewhat quirky novel is about 3 sisters, Deidre (journalist), Katrine (aspiring actress), and Sheil (a young girl who has gone through a series of governesses) who live with their mother in 1930's Britain.
The family has an active imagination and has created storylines for the doll Ironface, the pierrot Dion Saffyn, and their most recent obsession, Judge Toddington and his wife Lady Mildred.
The real world meets their imaginings when Deidre meets Lady Toddington at a charity bazaar.
While the Toddingtons are a bit baffled with this eccentric family, they are charmed by them and are delighted by their imaginings about them.
I picked this up in the library because I vaguely remembered seeing people talking about it somewhere, possibly on Girlsown.
It turned out to be...odd.
The main character and her family have what I believe is technically described as "a rich imaginative life", which makes the first portion of the book extremely bewildering as it's impossible to tell which characters are real and which imaginary.
Then they get to know the actual real-life people that they have been busy making up stories about for the last three years, and that's a bit bumpy, but it fairly much works out.
A short novel about a family of girls who, though beyond the usual age for make-believe, happily live in a world populated by their collective imaginings.
1931.Full review (and other recommendations!) at Another look bookI read this for a quick, one-day break from a big saga book.
I loved the relationships among the three sisters and the stand-in father-figure they created entirely from their imagination.
This book celebrates creativity, in young and old alike, just as it should be!
Can't wait to re-read it.
One of the weirdest books I have ever read.
For the first 60 pages or so, I thought I wasn't going to make it.
It was so slippery, and so private, that I couldn't follow it.
(Starting it last night, D said it was like reading Clockwork Orange.) And then it just locked into place and I got it, and it was wonderful.
It's not really about the Brontes, only metaphorical Brontes, except, of course, when they actually show up.
And women, of course, and income, and what life might be if you had to take it only at face value.
Fans of I Capture the Castle and Cold Comfort Farm rejoice!
This is the story of a family of three sisters, two young adults and the third eleven, and their widowed mother in London.
They are somewhat well-off, but both elder sisters hope for professions, one as a writer, the other as an actress.
The story focuses on their elaborate and imaginative family games, where they fasten onto someone, and build an imaginary friendship with them.
All of them, especially the youngest, take this game quite seriously.
Then they actually start getting to know the subject of one of their imaginary friendships.
I was intrigued by this book on page 1; by page 2 I was totally smitten.
Since I've been immersing myself in the world of Barbara Pym this last year, I've also been reading things she liked.
This book is an extreme version of the behaviour she delighted in (though it could be considered a bit stalkerish now), where a random person takes your fancy and you invent an imaginary world around them.
Often a bit of sleuthing is involved.
I might even read it again before it goes back to the library!
