https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96647.Scar_Tissue
DNF @ 55 pagesI just can't do this. I can't listen to this egotistical asshat talk about himself and how his awesome dipshit of a father hand fed him pot and quaaludes at age 11 and "introduced" him to sex at age 12 by letting him bang his (Dad's) 18 year old girlfriend. Because better than everyone else. And because rockstar. Here is a quote to show you what reading this is like: "But on the whole, I wouldn't have traded my lifestyle for anything else, especially some of the mundane realities o
I can't listen to this egotistical asshat talk about himself and how his awesome dipshit of a father hand fed him pot and quaaludes at age 11 and "introduced" him to sex at age 12 by letting him bang his (Dad's) 18 year old girlfriend.
Trying to get some sleep so I'd be rested for school the next day while people were having sex on the couch and shooting cocaine and cranking the stereo was definitely not a mundane reality.
But don't worry, he leaves him bus money to get school and a skateboard to get home - the skateboard making him a better more awesome skater than the famed Lords of Dogtown, by the way.
Whew... had to put it down for a bit because I was having nightmares where Anthony Kiedis was chasing me because he thought I had his drugs.
DNF.I give up. Anthony Kiedis, go put a dollar in the douche jar.  I recommend you stop being such a self-absorbed narcissist. P.S. I still like your music. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Another music bio. These rock stars have taught me so much.
So sue me...I'm a sucker for a celebrity biography, especially one packed with lurid details of drug use and ill-advised sexual escapades. And, I love the Chili Peppers, so this book was irresistible to me. I learned a little about Anthony Kiedis' song-writing process, which was nice. Unfortunately, I also learned that he is a selfish prick with a stunning lack of self-awareness. But, hey, it's only rock-n-roll, right?
LOVED LOVED LOVED!!!!Great book about a great man/band
I am pretty sure Anthony Kiedis had a relationship with Flea which he does not describe and he had plenty of pages on which he could have, too many pages.
My college age son raves about them, calling them the new Doors which makes their lead singer Anthony Kiedis the equivalent of a modern Jim Morrison.
Both were self-destructive semi-insane nihilists whose appetite for excess drove them to the edge (Morrison slipped over while Kiedis crawled back to write this engaging, moving testimonial).Having read at least 50 rock bios over the course of my life (the lifestyle, decadence and the road are can do you in..
probably because the testimony of Anthony Kiedis in Scar Tissue proclaimed that there is a lot of pain and bitter experience behind the music.
This is the most self indulgent, poorly written pap I have ever had the misfortune to purchase at an airport bookshop.
Despite the millions of copies sold, as proclaimed on the cover, it failed to impress.Anthony Keidis happily retells how he wasted his life on drugs, screwed and screwed over countless women, friends and collegaues and ended up alone - not even his closest friend Flea talks to him any more.
He has done nothing for the betterment of humanity despite millions of dollars, instead he wasted it away and has seemingly no regrets.If I can stop a single person reading this book my job is done.
Let's say right now that I loved this book and I can't understand why so many people dogged on it so badly.
However, everyone has a different take on their own recovery and this one is the one that resonated the most with me.After I read Dave Navarro's book a few years back, the whole 'recovery-memoir' thing left a really bad taste in my mouth, because in his book he suddenly jumps from rock-bottom to perfect life with his supermodel girlfriend and had a whole preachy vibe about the whole thing.
That's why I've loved for so many years and keep re-reading Marilyn Manson's book over and over and over.
When I first started reading this book I thought to myself what a self involved asshole!
In fact I had to have a little pep talk with myself so I could carry on reading.
It went something along the lines of- "You don’t have to like the person to enjoy the book and find some worth in it." And that little talk stood me in good sted because I think I found the book even more fascinating after having accepted that Kiedis is not a very good person and seems startlingly oblivious to the fact.
But most amazing to me was that a man who clearly sees himself as a modern day poet wrote a 500 page book about himself and didn't include one introspective or self analytically thought!
But let's start from the beginning...So, it doesn't matter how cool, high or sexy you think you are, you will never reach the level of Anthony Kiedis, in a bad meaning mostly.
The tasty piece: While showing himself as a selfish, unkind and destructive person in the past, Anthony Kiedis still managed to turn into a kind, generous and lovable character (I don't say "man", 'cause there's a possibility that this book can be just too good to be true ).
All in all, it is an interesting story about a great band and its leader, but Anthony Kiedis didn't suit me as the best choice to present it.But anyway
The writing isn't very difficult to follow, as this book reads like someone telling you their life story.
I personally felt bad for the guy and couldn't help but feel horrible for the guy when he struggled to get his life back together.The book isn't all horrid descriptions of drug addiction, however.
The book is about friendship and how the ups and downs over the years shaped the band and how they inspired the amazing songs they produced.My only real concern is that Antony Kiedis 'quit' doing drugs 'for the last time' fairly late into the book.
Someone shares his life with you in a very candid and open way, how can you not love that?And of course, what I love even more as a Chili Peppers fan is obviously getting to know Anthony Kiedis better.
Still, the funny thing is that what I liked the most is that the book made me listen to the music with new ears, so to speak.
And the best thing of all is that some of the Chili Peppers songs that I love the most are among those that Kiedis gives you more inside information on.
"One of the better definitions of insanity - doing the exact same thing over and over and expecting the result to be different" In a very weird way, this book was motivating.Okay, RHCP is my favorite band. Still, I picked up this book only for John Frusicante(It took 200 pages something to get there though).Now that I’ve read this, I seriously need the rest of his life story. This book doesn’t feel complete. As a group they’ve changed over years and they’re still funking-rocking. I need a book
Still, I picked up this book only for John Frusicante(It took 200 pages something to get there though).Now that I’ve read this, I seriously need the rest of his life story.
(Once again, he said it).Almost half of the book was about how he got high, how he messed up things, how he just got lucky with everything.But does that stop me loving their music?
I know, So fucking what?If you love them/him, you should seriously read this book.
this book pretty much ended that.
i felt a little dirty after some of the sections.
THAT kind of dirty...
like i needed to go scrub the images from my mind each time i put the book down!
the stories were intriguing, i had no idea of some of the horrible things this guy has done.
(or if i did have an idea, i was always able to brush it off!) i'm really surprised at how far he's been able to go in life with all the craziness that is described in the book.
The audiobook quality was pure crap.
I was also upset that Kiedis didn't narrate his own autobiography.
And I was not a fan of the narrator they used.
It seemed every other sexual encounter Kiedis had was "the most amazing, the most profound, etc" he ever had.
That shit got old fast.
The way this was written was very matter of fact.
This is what happened, then this, then this.
There was no real feeling of remorse or regret for all the drug use and fucked up behavior and infidelity.
BUT with all that being said, I could not put this book down.
Perhaps some of it happened to other people and Mr. Keidis thought it would be cool to incorporate it into his life story.
I wasn't a Chili Peppers fan before I read this book.
It's not like he is Flea or Frusciante for fux sake ;-) If you like Anthony and you want to hear tall tales of his drug abuse, and you want to hear exaggerated stories of his sex life (which even his bragging couldn't make sound exciting), and you think the front man is the end all be all of a Rock band, then by all means read this book.
Regardless, Scar Tissue is a damn good read, if you’re interested in rock bands of any kind.
It takes Anthony yeeears – dozens of rehab stays, hundreds of promises to stay clean – before he finally kicks his drug habit.The book also contains a fair share of car crash moments.
Anthony lived in Hollywood through some exciting times and has some strange encounters with celebrities that are likely to delight even reluctant starfuckers.I finished Scar Tissue a few days ago, but I keep wanting to pick it up and find there are still a few more chapters for me to read.
I really think Anthony Kiedis is a sweetheart. Every single girl he sleeps with & writes about in this book is called some variation of a magical-pixie-angel-sex goddess-special unicorn-rainbow-fairie, and it gets to be a bit endearing. He's like this big loaf, a dumb jock, who just happens to write catchy, stupid (stupid catchy?) songs. It's amazing he's still alive & looks so great, all things considered. The more interesting story in this autobio is that of John Frusciante - when is HE gonna write his memoirs?
A pretty fascinating, no-holds-barred look into the life of the vocalist of one of my favourite bands.
Anthony seems to have become totally at peace, self aware and completely grown up while retaining a wonderful child-like innocence which is pretty amazing considering how wild his life has been.There were a few negatives for me.
I think I've mentioned this before but writing about sex should never come across as dull unless that is completely 100% the intended effect, which I'm pretty sure is the opposite of what's being described here.
Sounds like Flea was pretty pissed off about that ending up in the book.
The only problem I found while reading this book was the fact that Kiedis is such a lucky pretentious fuck.
The Red Hots are definitely not known for his voice, try the funky band, and by that I mean Flea.
It's Flea.
So basically Kiedis' memoirs are pretty much by the books for a 90's Rock Star--plenty of drugs, and plenty of women.
The main complaint with the book overall is Kiedis' constant, almost boastful, commentary.
It's as if he tries to invoke jealousy in the reader simple because he lived it, you read it.
What I don’t understand is why some people feel they don’t have to abide by the simple rules of society that say drugs are a bad idea, and sleeping with a ton of women is a bad idea.•	I found the way you said things with girlfriends “wasn’t working out” and then broke up with them only added to my feeling that you think a lot of yourself.
Maybe she owes them to you.Well, I guess all I have to say (haha, I’ve already said a lot) is this: I was not a fan of yours when I picked up the book, not even knowing you.
he (anthony kiedis) makes drug abuse seem almost glorified.
i dont imagine that most drug abuser's experience are similar to tony's.
he gets caught in a very vicious cycle of women, drugs, music, death, and trips to exotic places.
lets shoot $5,000 worth of dope, and fly to bali to detox, and unwind!!"if it werent for his seemingly accidental fall in stardom, i'm not sure he'd have led the same amazing lifestyle.
dont get me wrong, he is an amazing artist, but i lost a little respect for the man towards the end of his book.
Then the narcissist becomes a pretty, loud, cocaine/heroin/speedball influenced character vacuum.
The resulting shamelessness, when accompanied by a modicum of ability and talent, can work wonders on a stage and make "rock-stars" out of the average.Artistry aside, as much as I appreciate the body of work of Red Hot Chili Peppers, Anthony Keidis is just not an interesting person.
I file this book in a long list of narcissistic, fake-ass, non-storyteller, 'autobiographers' which include Gene Simmons, Nikki Sixx, Don Felder, Tommy Lee, Bobby Blotzer and Scott Weiland, all of whose autobiographies suspiciously seem like attempts to dig their respective authors out of various financial holes.
It takes serious dedication and effort for an artist to make people think books are shit.
I’ve made a decision to read other people’s reviews of biographies and autobiographies in future, even all non-fiction really.
It is grating to hear someone get opinionated about something they know nothing about and autobiographies can often be gratuitous attempts to resurrect dying careers.Yes, yes, I’m still smarting from James “Britney’s Biographer” Blandfords attempts to chronicle a goddess and pretend he even knew what Doc Martens and Chelsea boots were.Moving on.The point is, had I actually adopted this credo before picking up Scar Tissue by Anthony Kiedis, I’d have seen all the warnings.
At all costs.Tongue-in-cheek aside, this book is awesome and hopefully I’ll finish it in a day or so.
I say almost, because I can’t die until I’ve finished this book.
DNF @ 8%.The writing in this is terrible.
The more interesting incidents are not really covered in much detail, their meaning is never explained or delved into but anything involving drugs gets the full treatment to the detriment of all else.Anthony Kiedis comes across as a self-centered idiot whose drug-abuse from such an early age has almost certainly damaged his brain in some way.
As a child he was a disrespectful bully and petty criminal, as an adult he was a drug-addicted jerk and by the way he had so much sex!
Compared to Nikki Sixx, Anthony Kiedis is freaking Shakespeare. Written in a simple yet honest voice, this book is not only completely entertaining in a voyeuristic way, but actually surprisingly moving at times....and shocking in others. (The section about his childhood was difficult to read, because he was basically robbed of one, which I suppose led to his troubles later on). One of the more interesting and candid addiction memoirs I've read so far- and I've read a lot!
Another way this book fascinated me was the facility with which he made it plain what it was like to be a rock star while at the same time really still feeling like an ordinary person.
(What is it like to invite a girl to a party and then have to deal with Jack Nicholson AND Joaquin Phoenix hitting on her?) On its most visceral level, Scar Tissue is, as its title implies, the story of lifelong addiction.
The book includes a photo of him getting high for the first time at age eleven, (the photo and the drugs supplied by dad.) What follows is over two decades of drug-mania and sexual debauchery.
I laughed out loud when I read the part about Tony going to meet the Dali Lama, he was told that the Dali was booked for 3 years so it would not be possible!
I also got a kick out the time he was in his car infront of a seedy Motel trying to score heroin when he sees a family "down on their luck" pull into the Motel, they had a Red hot chili pepper bumper sticker and the young kids were all wearing RHCP t-shirts (this made Tony Baloney feel sad) WHATEVER, liar, liar pants on fire.I was never a RHCP fan to begin with, I guess I am not into verbal diarrhea, I did find it interesting that Tony was constantly praised by his English teacher for being such a creative writer and was told he had very special talents, I guess his lyric's "hey-o, listen what I say-o" or rhyming Mississippi with Hippie is proof of his genius!
