https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/299961.Who_Moved_the_Stone_
Christianity stands or falls, however, on the claim of one central miracle: that the crucified Jesus of Nazareth literally rose from the dead by the act of God, attesting to the truth of his message and the meaning of his death as a sacrifice for human sin, and inaugurating an ultimate redemption of the world from sin and death.
Morison's intellectually honest research --not starting from the assumption that the Gospel accounts are inerrant Divine revelation, but rather treating them as human documents subject to historical analysis and verification-- forced him to the conclusion that the literal resurrection of Jesus from the dead is a fact, which the Gospel writers correctly report and interpret.
" اول قرنتیان باب 15 آیه 14 کتاب "چه کسی سنگ را جابجا کرده است؟"در سال 1953 توسط انتشارات نور جهان برای اولین (و آخرین) بار به زبان فارسی ترجمه و منتشر شده است.نویسنده در این کتاب به صورت کاملا تاریخی و به دور از هرگونه تحلیل و نگاه اگزیستانسیال به بررسی وقایع چند روز پایانی زندگی مسیح،دستگیری،محاکمه،مرگ و قیام مسیح می پردازد.
Discovering the evidence supporting the resurrection8 October 2010 The original idea behind this book was to demonstrate that the stories of Jesus Christ in the Bible (and in fact the whole Bible) were unreliable and that Christ's resurrection never happened. However the agnostic author, Frank Morison, discovered that it was not possible to actually write that book because he discovered, after a lot of pain staking research, that his original premise simply wasn't true. So, into the draw went hi
Discovering the evidence supporting the resurrection8 October 2010	The original idea behind this book was to demonstrate that the stories of Jesus Christ in the Bible (and in fact the whole Bible) were unreliable and that Christ's resurrection never happened.
However the agnostic author, Frank Morison, discovered that it was not possible to actually write that book because he discovered, after a lot of pain staking research, that his original premise simply wasn't true.
In the end, though, his main question (which is not answered in the book) is, who moved the stone?
Those two things shed much light on the events surrounding the resurrection, giving me access to an insight I would never be able to have on my own without several history and cultural lessons!The only reason I gave the book one star short from a perfect score, is that it could be a little difficult to read at times (the author lived almost 100 years ago and uses some pretty BIG words) and I never could figure out conclusively who the author thought "moved the stone." I could be wrong, but I gathered from the concluding chapter that the author insinuates that Christ opened the tomb himself, but he never directly affirms that insinuation.
What did his accusers say and bring against him?" If, as in the present instance, several charges appear to have been preferred, they would ask what was the real case against the prisoner.Strongly influenced by late 19th century skeptics, Frank Morison decided to discover Jesus' true nature by looking critically at the facts surrounding his death and resurrection.
Morison evaluates things that I never thought to question such as why Judas chose that particular night to turn Jesus over to the Pharisees, whether the Pharisees and Pontius Pilate worked hand in hand in Jesus' case, and where the apostles hid out (and why) during the trial and subsequent events.
This is one of my favorite Christian books. Since discovering it five decades ago, I have read it through several times. It is non-fiction and is the personal story of newsman who sets out to disprove the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Instead of achiving his goal, he finds the overwhelming weight of evidence supporting the historicity of the resurrection. Eventually, he becomes a follower of Christ.This is good reading and a great story. Christ's resurrection is the key to Christianity. If it did not happen, our faith is meaningless. If it did happen, it validates everything else about Christianity.
Ok. Morison does not believe in the historicity of all the gospels, nor in the preservation of scripture. His attempt to explain the resurrection therefore treats the texts as historical documents and not God's Word (as they claim to be). In fact, Morison ends up sounding a little like "The Moon Pool," by attempting to explain everything materialistically, barring of course the actual resurrection. Needless to say, such a take is not particularly convincing to Christians, although it might be a useful introduction to a casual skeptic.
This isn't a new book, so I'd love to read something on the same topic which takes account of the latest Biblical scholarship.
I'll try to reduce the argument - but you need to read the book for the subtle reasoning.
Basically 1: Jesus was a historical figure who died as told in the Gospels.
2: something changed His disciples from 'scattered sheep' to men who preached His conquering of death, from the earliest period (again, generally agreed) and were willing to die for that belief (historical record) 3: that preaching began in Jerusalem, where Jesus' tomb was, within weeks of his death (generally agreed) - therefore 4: that tomb must have been known to be empty to everyone in Jerusalem, backing up the belief in Jesus risen in the body.Too simplistic - I recommend reading this one for yourselves.
Page 129: "Personally, I am convinced that no body of men or women could persistently and successfully have preached in Jerusalem a doctrine involving the vacancy of that tomb, without the grave itself being physically vacant. The facts were too recent; the tomb too close to that seething center of oriental life. Not all the make-believe in the world. could have purchased the utter silence of antiquity or given to the records their impressive unanimity. Only the truth itself, in all its unavoidable simplicity,could have achieved that."
The accounts are "admittedly brief." (For that reason, the sermons that mean most to me are those that dig into a passage, bring it to life, and clarify its significance.)Who Moved the Stone is a classic attempt to get behind the scenes of the Crucifixion story, beginning with evidence of what must have been happening among the people who decided late Thursday evening that Jesus would have to be arrested and executed before sundown the next day, and continuing in the same manner through all the subsequent events, with special emphasis on the arrival at the tomb of the women on Sunday morning.
The evidence for the empty tomb IS overwhelming, and any explanations besides a literal resurrection are historically very difficult to sustain.The way Morison treats the gospels as historical documents can be a bit disconcerting for an evangelical like me; he seems to have been strongly influenced by the historical/literary criticism of his day.
Still, there is much good logic and helpful review of the chronology of the trial, death, resurrection, and later events.
But the book did have the power to convince both J.W. Montgomery and Josh McDowell that Jesus truly rose from the dead on the third day.
As utterly compelling an investigation as it was when I first read it, 35 yrs ago.
You can never "prove" anything in history (in as much as, unlike science, it's not something you can repeat and obtain the same answer), but my approach to ultimately faith (that final leap of believing) was intellectual, not experiential and this book was a part of it.
(If I hadn't temporarily mislaid it, I'd now be on that other literary pillar that bridged my approach, C S Lewis - Mere Christianity, but it'll have to wait until I've enjoyed an Iberian adventure story, in Spanish.)
Although occasionally you realise that this book was written in the 30s - generally when the author takes care to debunk theories which are not commonly held today - it remains an excellent summary of the evidence for the physical resurrection of Christ. The author does not start with the position that the Bible is infallible, which may put some Christians off; however, I am not sure how you could write this kind of book if you did start with that position, or at the least it would be a very short book!
Great bookHighly readable and very compelling. A good book to add to any person interested in apologetics' library. Highly recommended without reservation.
3.5 stars
The author used logic to prove that something out of the ordanary happened between Christ's arrest and the discovery of the empty tomb.
Using the gospels and other sources from the 1st century to destroy the theory's that ranged from Christ's body being stolen, to passing out on the cross only to revive later.
This book points to the only possible explanination that Christ was reserctied and appeared to His followers.
Dispite how extrodanary this claim is, it is the only one that can account for the change of the apostles from cowards who ran away and denighed Christ; to boldly proclaiming the Word even when it lead to their own grizzly deaths.
An attorney investigates the gospel accounts of Jesus Christ's resurrection from the dead. This is a 1930 precursor to such modern-day authors as attorney and investigative journalist Lee Strobel.
I try to read this book every Easter. I love it. My Kindle version has more than a few typos, even after an update pushed out to supposedly correct them. Still, I love Morison's logic as he details his research into the circumstances surrounding Christ's arrest, death, the empty tomb, and the beginnings of Christianity. Wish the book had detailed footnoting and a bibliography, but unsure if that's a factor of my apparently poorly edited Kindle version. Highly recommend despite these flaws.
(From a Christian perspective, it was very disappointing to see him give so much credence to the gospels of Matthew and Luke as authoritative documents only to later say that they were wrong and that Mark alone has the true record.)The book brings out some wonderful insights into the events surrounding the passion of Christ, and the author is very fun to read as he uses the principle of induction to put things into perspective.
Overall, this book serves as giving the reader a better appreciation of what went on the last couple of days before Christ's death, but I would not recommend it as a good apologetic for the faith.
It took me awhile to work through Frank Morrison's book, although I found it immensely interesting.
However, after doing his research, he reached the conclusion that the gospel accounts were entirely true.As he wrote about the different people involved in the events, the final days of Christ's life before his crucifixion took on deeper layers of meaning for me.
Morrison reached the same conclusion as I did about whether the resurrection really happened - which is that there were credible eyewitnesses who in fact, did see Christ after he rose from the grave.
An in-depth, thoughtful, and imaginative analysis of the four Gospels and various apocrypha, piecing together what really happened (and why) on the night Jesus was betrayed by Judas, through the crucifixion, on the first Easter Sunday, and in the weeks that followed.
And why did Mary (wife of Clopas), Mary Magdalene, and Salome watch the crucifixion, but only the two Marys watched the burial?
The reader is left to insinuate that Jesus moved the stone from inside the tomb, which is certainly more logical than some of the suppositions I've read — but it's not simply stated by the author.
Four stars for one of the best analyses I've read.
He writes about his take on the week leading up to Jesus's crucifixion and ends a week after.Morison dissects the psychological ramifications of the events, the way stories tend to be told and develop, and the historical facts of how the religions and governmental bodies of the day worked and where this story deviated from they way they were supposed to operate.Morison moves through these points with remarkable depth and clarity.
He went into such remarkable depth in his study that I'm not sure it could be said that anyone else's study compares.If you have ever pondered these events and wonder what actually happened during the week before and after Jesus's death, you owe it to yourself to read this book.
I read this book several years ago but keep it on my bookshelf and refer to it at times when challenged about the evidence for the resurrection of Christ. The author had set out to disprove this reality and gathered much evidence in his attempt to do so but was compellingly convinced that Jesus is all He claimed to be and that His resurrection is a fact. This fact changed the author's life. If you have doubts about Jesus I would encourage you to read it with an open mind and decide for yourself.
I have wanted to read this book for a long time. I am glad that I have now done so. It was a bit wordy and a bit of a challenge to take on board all that was written but overall it was worth it. Not sure I'd go along with every conclusion he makes but he certainly raises some good points to back up the fact that Jesus rose from the dead. Would recommend it but would also encourage folk to look around for other books on the subject too.
I thoroughly enjoyed the book, but I found a conflict between the rationalistic approach of the early 20th Century and my post-modern, relativistic mindset of the 21st Century. In some ways I wish I could turn off that influence but I don't think one can really escape the worldview of one's age. He makes some assertions which I can only say are highly speculative, but he seems convinced. Either way, a really fascinating book and very well written.
Morison's book is one of those rare books that is the opposite of what the author set out to write. He set out to disprove the resurrection of Christ and point by point, fact by fact was led irresistably to conclude it happened! Jesus rose bodily from the grave! Indispensable reading for skeptics and all those on the fringes of the Christian faith or those with shaky faith.
A speculative look at some of the possibilities surrounding the events of the Resurrection. Very thought provoking. Morison ties a number of verses together quite well, this is certainly an excellent study, if inconclusive in nature. A great book to pair with a bible study.
This book was written by a man who setout to prove the resurrection of Jesus was a hoax. In the end, he convinced himself that it had to be true. This book details the few days of events following the death and burial of Jesus.
You have to be very much in the right mood to read this book. The topic and the points are interesting. The book was written around 90 years ago and it reads as such. This book is probably not the best place to begin with this topic.
Ultimately, this author offered no proof that wouldn't convince anybody who didn't want to be convinced. What do they say ? - preaching to the converted.
