https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/147746.Swim_with_the_Sharks_Without_Being_Eaten_Alive
It’s an outstanding guide for anybody in a sales career or leadership position, and especially useful for new managers.
The book is broken up into a bunch of mini-chapters what the author calls Lessons and Quickies.
Each lesson gives a little bit of advice or wisdom and are often simple parables versus specific advice.
These simple lessons have titles such as, "If You Don't Have a Destination, You'll Never Get There," or "Make Decisions with Your Heart and What You'll End Up with Is Heart Disease" or "It isn't the people you fire who make your life miserable, it's the people you don't".
Perhaps what drives it home so much is that the lessons are timeless.Ideas like really taking the time to know your customer and having true customer service.
But as we all know, even though core business practices like that SHOULD be obvious, they aren't really practiced.
MacKay drives home their importance through some clear stories of his success.
Some are just as important but aren't as obvious in the real world - we need reminding.
For instance: being willing and able to say "no" and walk away.Particularly based on how short of a read it is, I'd highly recommend it to anyone in business.
Книгу для деловых людей «Как уцелеть среди акул» считаю, стоило бы назвать «Как плавать среди китов». Мне кажется, что так было бы ближе к её содержанию.Именно её название настроило меня встретится в книге с чем то сравни того «как выжить в подковёрных склоках и интригах». Но очень обрадовался, когда мои ожидания разрушились об очень высококачественные советы опытного, умного и весьма ловкого человека. Такие книги довольно редкие. И эту можно смело внести в списки лучших деловых книг в мире.
It's a refreshing approach to jumpstart your firm, something no Harvard book can teach. If you can stomach his "punk-American" style, the book has some practical wisdom to offer. Most important though, this 20th century tactics should be treated as a foundation on which the 21st century guidances are built, that too if you are in manufacturing/production side of business.
First of all this book is a bit different from what I was expecting after reading of annotation.
My expectation was "one more book about negotiations and surviving in complex situations".Actually "Swim with the Sharks" is rather brief handbook about everything (negotiations, management, decisions etc) rather then detailed paper about particular topic.
I would recommend it to read for those people who has no idea how to be successful and not going to spend time to read many books.For those who already read more deep explanations of negotiations, presentations, strategies, management etc there would be nothing new.
If you dont know baseball or a few America's who is who, you feel disconnected sometimes.
The 66 questions to know your customer and the other questionnaire to know your competitor are handy if you are looking for a direction in these areas, yet quite exhaustive and ideal.
Probably the message that the author wants to convey is that no information about the customer or competitor is not useful.
It has been a nice read but I think "What They Dont Teach You at HBS" and "What Got You Here Wont Get You There" are more interesting.
The book is a simple manual for entrepreneurial enthusiasts. It's smart, exciting and easy to read. Above all, the book gives some cunning tips on how one can succeed while doing work that is supposed to be not a job, but actually something that is to be loved by the doer. Everything genius is simple, sir Mackay is another living proof of this Golden Rule of success, all it really takes is a creative approach and lots of patience.
I really don't know why I picked up this book. It was there, I needed something to read. I had a high-power job interview coming up and I thought this book would put me in a go-getter frame of mind. I can't say it taught me anything. It is basically a big disorganized assortment of platitudes and self-aggrandizing anecdotes with very little useful insight.
A must read book when I was starting out in business (1980's) and the lessons are probably just as relevant today as they ever were.
Not sure I want to swim with sharks or feel the need to outsell, outmanage, outmotivate or outnegotiate anybody these days, especially with as much fervour as Harvey seems to.
Well worth reading though, if only to know the sort of tactics sharks like Harvey like to use on people they meet.
Harvey Mackay's list of '66 questions you want to keep tabs on' must be an inspiration to the algorithmic data-miners of todays cloud computing world.

Swim with the Sharks is an EXCELLENT book for salespeople! Harvey Mack really knows how to sell products and his advice is very practical. The only thing that bothered me about this book is that some of his advice is borderline unethical to me. For example, he advises sending in a decoy buyer to make a lowball offer to the seller of a business and then using the info that the decoy discovered about the deal to make an effective offer on the business. I'm sure that tactic is effective, but my conscience would not allow me to do that.
Книга Харви Маккея - классика американского менеджмента. Сегодня очень мало книг, в которых важных идей больше одной. В этой - больше, намного больше.Порой простые, но очень значимые вещи, которые мы забываем и которые важны каждый бизнес-день.Такие книги растаскивают на цитаты и задачи в календарь.#капитализмпожираетсвоихдетей
I recently heard a quote that "a" Fact is not "a" Truth unless it's full realisation brings a general insight that greatly exceeds it's individual relevance. This book has a summary of useful facts , following the guidelines in this book will bring you no harm - that said if you have the kind of competition that can still be outcompeted with these insight..you are a luck, lucky individual
I didn't realize Harvey Mackay is a Minnesota boy! Hearing hometown examples make this book more interesting than it already is. It's a generalist book, but it seems his expertise is primarily sales. Overall, the book is very good.
This was quite possibly one of the best books about business that I have ever read. It's an entertaining and relatively quick read with helpful suggestions and anecdotes. I especially enjoyed the tales - and there were many - about Minnesotan historical figures. Lots of food for thought.
Great read---mixed with real stories---
Really simple, but interesting guide in sales, management, negotiations and general tips for a successful business.
Outdated, but the most important function of sales is being relatable with other human beings. Harvey does a great job of breaking down the basics.
Love this guy! One of the first Self-help books I read! Inspiring. A must read!
Good general purpose business book
Good book for little tips that one can use in every day life whether it comes to business or even other relationships.
Folksy business wisdom from an envelope manufacturer.
This is probably the one book I most recommend to people. Even though it’s probably 30 years old, it is the one true business relationship and networking bible out there. The simple lessons learned from Harvey’s insight and experience are priceless... Go out and do a few of the things he recommends and your life and success will multiply greatly. If there is one book you must read about sales, networking, and building relationships, this is the one... Buy it and read it over and over again!!!
Mackay also reminds readers of the importance of writing small yet important things down on paper and/or notepads.But even with all the perfections which were present and applicable during the 80's - the book falls short by today's standards.Let me state them with examples.1.
He does understand the art of the schmooze in talking with celebrities such as O.J. and world figures such as Castro about things that they do, and interest them in their free time and not about what they do for work.
However, with time people evolved, information was easily available, techniques improved and the world became a more smarter and better place - which made books like these sound out-dated and silly.
Книга, очень похожа на книгу Игоря Манна «Маркетинг на 100%», а также на более успешные книги Джефри Фокса.Первый минус, который бросается сразу в глаза, это предельная американизированность книги.
Российским читателям мало того что мало известно про сам американский футбол, так они совершенно ничего не знают про их внутренние разборки и правила поведения.В остальном советы, которые даёт Маккейн довольно банальные и скорее напоминают советы Капитана Очевидности.
Если Вы поклонник книг по типу «книги-советы», к которым можно причислить Игоря Манна и его книгу «Маркетинг на все 100%», серию книг Джефри Фокса («Как стать суперзвездой маркетинга», «Как стать генеральным директором», «Не торопитесь посылать резюме» и т.д.), то это книга для Вас.
I kept waiting for the other shoe to drop - the "and here's how to trick them out of their money" bit - but it never appeared.The book is a collection of tiny, often 1-2 page chapters that for the most part talk about how to be a good person in the context of the business world, and how to do good things for others so they think of you when they need the product you sell, and how to be in the right places, and how to not get taken advantage of.
It's not a book of cheap tricks, but of methods for becoming the kind of person and company that people seek out, and feel thankful to know and privileged to work with.
Each chapter is a different story, some insights may fit for you, some may not - but regardless it is a good way to get a feel for how he thinks and values opportunities and situations, and all of it is applicable in business today.
I especially like the formula for evaluation of competition and other forms that he used in his business, that are printed in the book in their entirety for your use.
Typically policies and procedures are the "special sauce" of a company and you will not see an asset like that being given freely, but there it is in this book.
This book is a quick and easy read ...
but overall it is an interesting read.Some of the ideas that he presents are very interesting and even easy, if you're a "big fish" but may be "way out there" for the normal "little fish in the pond".
They are courtesy things, such as thank you cards, birthday acknowledgments and the like.
They are things that we should be doing anyway.All-in-all it's a good book that offers you some interesting ideas to help you get ahead in the world.
I definitely would not like to go up against Mr. MacKay ...
The strongest point against this book is its misleading title: this is more a self-help book than a book on management and the "lessons" found here have more to do with psychological tricks than with business strategies.
Maybe some of you already knew that but I was given this to read for a class on Organizational Development and my main beef with this book has more to do with my current teacher's dubious choice of mandatory reading than with the book itself (though the book is not by any stretch of the imagination a highly revelatory read, either).

