https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7726892-the-island
A typical beach read with a lot of drama in women's lives. I did not like the characters at all. I even didn't like their names-Birdie, India, Chess, Tate. These were rich spoiled women who didn't deserve the men in their lives. But, ofcourse everything works out perfectly for them and everyone lives happily ever after. Bleh!!
I'm reading this book and I really don't know why.
Hilderbrand has a unique (and mildly annoying) habit of not having chapters in her books.
There are long stretches of disjointed prose separated with a heading for a different character.All of Hilderbrand's books that I've read seem geared for commercial success- written according to her recipe for success.
If I hate, then I'll return to the library as soon as possible.
....And, I didn't "hate" the book, but it was absolutely not my favorite.
For me the book was like literary cotton candy.
I don't think I'll be reading any more of Hilderbrand's novels.

Relationships, especially family relationships are fraught with potholes.Hell, let's be honest here, minefields!
Especially complicated is the mother/daughter relationship.Throw in some sisterly sibling rivalry with a trip to an isolated island for some togetherness and you have the premise for this book.
There are no easy answers to the troubles that plague the four women of this family.
Through all the mess that makes up their lives, they are family.
They each were given voices and the story was told as they lived it.
Sometimes they were speaking over one another, but don't we all do that sometimes in our own families?
Here’s a sample: They had officially been “together” for only nine days, but every day on Tuckernuck was a lifetime, and so it felt like forever.
They had made love sixteen times, they had shared eleven meals, they had watched three movies, gone to two restaurants, taken five boat rides, caught two fish.
I don’t know a single high-powered, computer genius professional woman who thinks like this!The sibling rivalry arguments are even worse.
Not only do the two young women carry on like toddlers who can’t share a toy, their 50-something mother and aunt also dig up their own sibling rivalries.
The four of them head to the family beach house, which is accessible only by boat and thus the perfect place to get away from the world.What I liked about this book is the realistic way everyone's emotions were mixed.
It was very true to life.One thing that struck me about the tale is the very dramatic, high-strung, crashing feelings of being in love, not just for Tate (this is her first love, so not surprising there), but also for Chess and, most surprisingly, Birdie.
Well-crafted characters but a slow story. The island of Tuckernuck sounds heavenly. I was really hoping for more of a happy beach read with these four women instead of lots of drama. However, real life is messy, so it was aptly written.
As the story flowed, I enjoyed getting to 'know' these characters even better.
I found poignant moments within the book and as I read, I found myself more and more invested in these characters.All four women recall several events from the past and the one who intrigued me most was Chess.
I was eager to learn her secrets and when the big one was revealed, I gasped.Tate annoyed me a bit, mostly because she would act childish more often than not.I enjoyed the romance within the story, some of it was subtle, some of it more intense and I was eager to see how everyone's story would turn out.
I could hardly put this book down. It was that good. I really love this author and she outdid herself with this novel. It had mother-daughter relationships, sister relationships, marriage, divorce, death, new love.... hurt, anger, excitement, hope..... what a book! Loved it!
The author makes you love and hate each of the characters.
She still wasn't my favorite in the book but she was a little more manageable.I had a complete love/hate relationship with Chess.
I got so tired of her self-pity (yes, those who have read this book will probably think I am heartless) and depression.
At the end of the book, I loved her!
However, at the end of the book, I loved her again!Barrett and India were by far my favorite characters throughout the book.
I loved how the book went from all four women's point of views.
I really liked this story of four women, two sets of sisters a generation apart, spending a month together on an island off the coast of Nantucket.
The setting is one of the things that brought the novel alive.
Elin Hilderbrand knows this tiny island.
She knows these two pairs of sisters, too, and the particularly layered and mysterious corners and secret nooks and crannies that exist between sisters.
There's a secret, well, really more than one, but there's one huge secret at the center of the story.
Sort of like gouging out a splinter.
The strength of this novel for me lies in the dialogue, especially between Chess and Tate.
Easy and fun beach book.The women were a little over the top with their issues but I loved how they enjoyedtheir cocktail hour every evening.....very funny! The thing I got out of this book is I want to try the wine they drank....Sancerre....heard itwas delicious.Fun read that is forgetable when you leave the beach!
In the beginning of the book, she was the most compelling character for me, growing up in her sister Chess's shadow, having people make assumptions about her because she rarely had a relationship and trying to define success for herself.
I wavered between rating The Island three stars (rating it on a scale with all of my other books, against my personal taste as a whole) or four stars (rating it on a scale against all other "chick lit" that I've read, because it definitely stands out in that world).
I read a little bit of this book each day but it took awhile to finish.
Birdie and her sister India, grew up spending summers on Tuckernuck.
When things do not work out, and Chess' life is falling apart it becomes a four woman getaway with India and Birdie's younger daughter Tate joining them for a month instead, to help Chess deal with her depression and issues.
This group of woman have so many issues in their life that I am surprised they did not kill each other before the month was over.
Elin Hilderbrand's latest novel, The Island, tells the story of 4 women over one month on Tuckernuck Island.
To celebrate and try to reconnect with Chess, Birdie invites her to spend a week in the old family vacation home on Tuckernuck Island.
When Chess calls off the engagement and shortly after the ex fiancee dies in a freak climbing, the accident, the week turns into a month and Birdie invites her other daughter Tate and her own sister India to try and help Chess find her way out of the deep depression she has fallen in.
I loved how the author spoke from the perspective of the four women this book centers around - Birdie, the matriarch; India, her sister; Chess, her oldest daughter; and Tate, her youngest daughter.
We watch these four women as their lives completely change and how each of them react to it.
I found myself reading for hours and unable to put it down.
I love her writing - this is the third book I have read by her - and can't wait to read another.
This book reminded me of why I love to read so much.
For full review - The Limit of Books Does Not ExistI first read an Elin Hilderbrand novel earlier this year and I’m addicted!
They are great escape reads that are perfect for reading on a beach or just curled up on the couch!
The Island is no exception and it was perfect for a fall couch read!The Island focuses on 4 women – 2 daughters, their mother and their aunt.
Most of it was predictable, but I still enjoyed the journey getting to the end.I would definitely recommend Elin Hilderbrand, but The Island isn’t her best novel.
There was the mother, Birdie, who blamed her ex-husband for 'ruining' her life by suggesting she not work but instead, stay home to raise their family while he worked for a living, earning multi-millions per year.
When India, Birdie's sister, isn't spending her time smoking, drinking and directing sexual comments and wolf-whistles toward a man decades younger than herself, not to mention he's also the love object of one, if not both of her nieces, she spends most of her time on the island brooding about her late husband who committed suicide years before and thinking about an art student who is trying to pursue a scandalous affair with her.
Birdie was thrilled when Chess accepted her invitation and for the first time in years called their caretaker on the Island.
There was quite a bit of work to be done if they were going to be able to stay in the long neglected house.Nothing could have prepared Birdie for the late night call she received from Chess.
If there ever was a time that Chess needed her family, this was it.Not only did Birdie invite her eldest daughter Tate, but she also invited her own sister India to join the group.
The premise was good.
Here are my notes to the annoying women characters to save them high therapy bills in life:Birdie - you chose to become a certain type of wife, then you later resented your husband for it.
Good for you.Tate - Really?
If you are going to be a substitute mother for young children, you really MUST act more maturely than they do.
I am tired of hearing about Birdie's favorite wine, Chess' shorn head, etc.To the audiobook reader.....stick to children's literature if you are going to speak in a silly, sing songy voice.
I wish I had read the reviews prior to reading this book, I grabbed it because I have enjoyed other Elin Hilderbrand books in the past.
I agree with the others who have said the women were spoiled and not at all realistic.
The mother, repeated calls her current boyfriend like a deranged high school girl in love, and when he doesn't answer calls her ex-husband at 2:00 a.m. to complain "Grant doesn't love me!" Seriously?With the millions of books out there to read, do yourself a favor and don't waste time on this one.
Yeah, it's embarrassing, but it's become part of my summer ritual: every July or August I read Hilde
In all honesty, I probably would have skipped this book if it hadn't been the only book I was stuck on a plane with. The storyline? Cutesie, I guess. But I didn't love the language and some of the rather foul interludes. Luckily, I flew to Georgia where I purchased a copy of "Gone with the Wind" about 5 feet from where Margaret Mitchell actually wrote it and cleansed my palette on the plane ride home.
Ms. Hilderbrand lives on Nantucket and writes stories set on Nantucket.
I cared about these people and I turned those pages fast, and I got another two of these gems from the library.The only thing that bothered me: Every time the author portrays a specific ethnic group, it's either negative or a cliche, or both.
All of these characters have minor roles in the stories, except for the poor kid turned rich kid from New Bedford.
The stories more than made up for these negligible distractions, for me, anyway.Bottom line: if you like entertaining stories about interesting, smart women and skillful, humorous writing, Elin Hilderbrand books are a treat and a half.
This is a solid three-star chick lit book.
Four women, each going through her own struggle, end up spending lots of time together and fighting/bonding as each works out her own particular issues and plotline.
Birdie, her mother, takes Chess to the family summer home on Tuckernuck Island for some bonding/R&R, together with Chess's sister Tate and Birdie's sister India.
And as with much chick lit, I felt that the men were cardboard characters.
This is the second of her novels I've read, and she seems to specialize in character-based contemporary tales set on Nantucket, a place I now crave to visit.
Rallying the troops, her mother, Birdie, who has recently divorced her husband of thirty some-odd years, takes her sister and Chess's to their long-abandoned island home off Nantucket for a month of escape from the world, in the hopes of mending Chess's mental state.Each woman has her own story to tell, and each of those stories centers on love.
Chess is reeling after she breaks her engagement, Birdie, her mom has finally met someone that she cares about after her 30 year marriage has ended, Aunt India has experienced major problems with her most promising art student who has decided to withdraw and attend Parsons Art Institute instead, and Tate, is just Pollyanna but has never been in love and spends all her days fixing computer systems and her nights in a minimalist apartment, which is describing it nicely.
With Chess hurting so much, Birdie has decided that they should return to their summer home together for a month of relaxation.

Definitely a beach read.
I love every single book that Elin Hilderbrand has written. Great Book.
