https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574102.Head_of_the_House
Another charming Grace book ...originally published in 1940 ... but just a timeless story.Wonderful family sage of Jennifer Graeme and her six brothers and sisters who run away after their parents' sudden deaths to escape grasping relatives who want to take over their lives. Jennifer knows in a few months she will reach her majority and be able to be the head of the house.... so off the little family bravely goes into adventure and change. Loved this one.
In "Head of the House," Grace Livingston Hill showcases one of her trademarks -- the ability to follow the trials and adventures of a family, while making the reader feel that they're part of the group.
~~First published in 1940, "Head of the House" is a wonderful time capsule of customs and place; but the story at the heart of the novel is timeless.There are *eight* main characters; and to handle that task, Grace uses kind of a total omniscient narrative.
We follow the story mostly through the eyes of Jennifer, the "Head of the House;" but at other times we see life from the perspective of her brothers and sisters.
Grace Livingston Hill is the queen of Christian fiction!
I have read nearly 25 of her books at least over the course of my life.
The story was so sweet and the romance so pure and almost non existent (which is how I like it) that it was just a sweet clean read!
This one was the story of Jennifer Graeme and her family as they did there best to escape the clutches of their manipulating relatives, stay together and eventually find Jesus.
I would highly recommend this book as well as many others by Miss Hill.
Fabulous reading!
This is one of my favorite Grace Livingston Hill's ever!
As is often the case with Grace Livingston Hill, although the cover and even the cover blurb make it sound like a romance, in actual fact the hero shows up in maybe three chapters, and it's much more a story about a girl's relationship with her family.
Not that this bothered me, I've just always found it interesting that GLH books are invariably presented as romances, when a fair percentage of them have very little romance in the actual plot.As with most of GLH's books that lack much romance, I liked this one just fine.
I re-read this book for my 2015 Reading Challenge in the category "Read a book your mother loves." It was really the only book I could think of--as a young girl (maybe 10 or 12 years old) my mom and I went through some boxes of books that had been left in the attic of our farmhouse and were there when they moved in many years before.
I had run out of reading material, and my mom remembered those boxes, so we dug through them, only to find most were in Swedish, but a few we could read.
This is one of my favorite books by Grace Livingston Hill, as it was the very first book I read of hers when I was about ten years old. At the age of ten, my favorite thing about the book was that the main character's name was Jennifer. I've read it probably about a dozen times since then, and now I have come to appreciate the excellent writing and GLH's practice of inserting the Gospel into her novels.
My mom introduced me to Grace Livingston Hill as a young teen, main to get me away from Sweet Valley High books. Head of the House is by far one of my favorite GLH books. It's heartbreaking and funny in different turns. This is a definite must read book. I go back as often as possible and re-read her works.
Not really a romance, (that part is saved for the last two chapters only,) this was a book of children surviving on their own with the help of the Lord. I like stories where dependence on God is learned. Frustrating though, is the prejudice mentality of the early 20th century, which is why I only gave this book three stars.
i love all of Grace Livingston Hills books and this is one of my favorites
I liked it.
Always loved this one.
A cheesy story...but sweet all the same. Not one of her best.
Wonderful story for any age.Warm story full of family love. Endurance and humor. As with all books by GLH, the discovery of Christ our Father. Wonderful explanation of hell.
I love Grace Livingston Hill's books, mainly because she writes from a different era.
Though the publishers tried to update her books by putting a 70's picture on the front, her stories are still set in the classic Grace Livingston Hill time period, the 30's and 40's.
This was a time in our history where life had rules, there was a distinct right and wrong, and classes of people were defined differently than today.
Grace Livingston Hill's books always have a beautiful and exciting love story, one where Christians and non-Christians lives collide.
I read her books to my 97 year old mother-in-law, Anna, and she relates in a different way than me.
The day after the funeral, Jennifer overhears her ‘family’ (aunts and uncles) plotting to separate the children and divide up the family goods.
After the family leaves, with quick work she dispenses with the servants and packs her siblings up and heads out of town.
The plan is to stay away until she is of age and can have a say in what happens with her family, and step into her role as head of the house.
Through one such trial they are brought into contact with two beloved friends from their past, and introduced to the saving grace of Jesus Christ, the true Head of the House.
Amazing stories that stand the test of timeWonderful books even though the author died over 70 years ago. What I also find interesting is reading about the way of life in the time periods these books were written. I have enjoyed lots of her stories written in different decades.
Great StoryI chose this rating because I enjoy reading this author. She writes interesting stories with good moral values and a Christian base. I will seE more of this author.
