https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79378.Roses_are_Red

HOLY COW...My mouth literally dropped open when I read the last sentence in this book! To be completely honest, I read that same sentence like 5 times! Holy chit, batman! I am off to start the next book, Violets are Blue to see where this goes! Holy cow!
This installment of the Alex Cross series has some pretty interesting crime plot and developments in Alex’s personal life.
I feel like his personal life is going to be as interesting as the crime plots in the books of this series.
Guy just can’t seem to get his love life under control and something is always popping up in his family life.
Thought he may have found a good companion.
I read the description of the next book and am looking forward to that one right away!
My quick and simple overall: quick read and good for an afternoon of entertainment.
I want to read them all and then when I get to the last book I will somehow try to pick my favorite child.Now back to this book and yes this review will have spoilers.(view spoiler)[Roses are Red sort of gives you a murdering duo.
Christine is going through a post-traumatic stress situation with the whole kidnapping thing that happened a year ago.
Now I didn't really like Christine in the beginning, then I foolishly started to like her in the last book, and now I hate her again.
Ugh. I've read a handful of Patterson's books and none of them would qualify as good literature, but this one was particularly awful.
The writing is cliched and one-dimensional, the characters are uninteresting, and the story tries to be so shocking that it actually ends up being predictable.
I really don't understand why these books are so popular other than that the majority of people are practically illiterate.
I have nothing against violence and murder and shocking stories, but at least make them interesting.
Alex and his new, good looking, of course, female FBI sidekick are collectively pulling their hair out trying to catch the sadistic "mastermind".
As if this wasn't enough for Alex to be going on with he is also having his heart broken, romanticly as well as health issues.
Everything you would expect in a Alex Cross book is here, page turning, death, blood and the biggest, meanest monster this side of Mars.The end was a real jaw dropper.Things that I have issue with.
All he seems to do is go around calling Alex "sugar".
Wow what a crazy ending!Alex Cross is fighting a villain called The Mastermind.
The Mastermind sets up a number of bank robberies and takes the bank employee's families as hostages.
If everyone does what they are told then they are safe.
Maybe they will in the next novel?I hate reading about Alex Cross's personal life.
Some situations were unrealistic (view spoiler)[investigating a large crime while your daughter is fighting for her life in the hospital (hide spoiler)] and don't get me started on his love life.Excited to read the next novel and see what the Mastermind has in store!
I know this makes it possible for a same theme sequel, but it leaves an unsatisfactory aftertaste.I purposely purchased 'Violets are Blue' to see Alex catch the mastermind, but in looking up the novel, I discovered that he once again eludes capture.
Alex nails the current bad guys, but the really bad guys, the ones who torment him, never get caught.I'm not sure I'm going to pick up the sequel to "Violets are Blue'.
It's way past time for Patterson to let Alex finally nail the Weasel and the Mastermind and move on.
I can not begin to describe how much I hated this book. Uninteresting, the main character wasn't particularly appealing, and the writing is terrible. The end is a cliffhanger, and I could care less about getting the next book to find out the end of the story. This is the first James Patterson book I read, and the last.
James Patterson doesn't disappoint. I like when he makes the reader keep on guessing. Guessing, guessing, guessing...
In this heart-pounding but touchingly romantic thriller, Detective Alex Cross pursues the most complex and brilliant killer he's ever confronted--mysterious criminal who calls himself the Mastermind.
Alex Cross takes on a case, certain that this is no ordinary bank robber at work--the pathological need for control and perfection is too great.
Cross is in the midst of a personal crises at home, but the case becomes all-consuming as he learns that the Mastermind is plotting one huge, last, perfect crime.
This isn't my favorite of Patterson's books.
My library rarely has the books in order .....
These stories have a beginning, middle and end and when I read the last page my mind evaluates or digests what I have read and I can then form an opinion.
Roses are Red by James Patterson isn’t like his average stories.
Most of Patterson’s novels begin by corralling the reader into his world and leading them down corridors with short chapters and never ending action.
When the story comes to an end a feeling of wellbeing fills your mind and the world is once again a good and safe place.
Roses are Red is different.
Well holy crap! This is one of the few times that this series has left me with a cliffhanger at the end of a book. I guess I'll have to start the next one really soon - normally by the end of the book you get the sense of how it's going to end. Not this one. Not this one AT ALL. Ughhh why must I work in an office where I can't READ all day?!
Detective Alex Cross is a magnificent person. This book is well written. It shows family dynamics, friendships, love, and the suspense of never knowing whom the killer truly is until the end. Days later you still can’t believe who the killer truly is. The unanswered question is will Detective Cross ever figure it out. Must read for anyone who likes suspense.
did thaT JUST...............
Roses are Red by James Patterson is an exciting mystery that is led by D.C’s top detective Alex Cross.
This book is not only a great read but it also shows the importance of family life and how quickly someone can be on the edge of dieing.
James Patterson is an exciting author who makes reading become more of a movie in your head.
It doesn’t matter whether you’re fourteen or fifty, Patterson writes in a way so that anyone can enjoy it as long as you love a good mystery.
I think that there just comes a point where you realize you have outgrow certain authors and I haven't particularly cared for the last three Patterson novels I have read.
The romance between Alex and Betsey was sweet, and maybe I would have been more emotionally vested in the Christine/baby Alex situation if I had read Pop Goes the Weasel, but that set aside (the fact that these Cross books should be read in order), this book just didn't rely a lot on evidence to follow the Mastermind (I guess because there wasn't much), the crimes all seemed to be the same with no real MO or pattern or differentiation, and really?
The end didn't shock me one bit...again, another curse of reading this book out of the series order.
Whew!!! I'm ready to start on book 7 ... Violets Are Blue
I enjoyed this shocker thriller, but I have to be honest; the police/FBI work seems naive and not if the standard I expect.
Εύχομαι πραγματικά να υπάρχει μια σωστή αιτιολογία, γιατί πρόκειται για μια ανατροπή που βάζει ολόκληρη τη σειρά των βιβλίων με τον Άλεξ Κρος σε εντελώς άλλο επίπεδο!Το βιβλίο επομένως μου φάνηκε ανισοβαρές, μιας και στα πρώτα κεφάλαια έχουμε το συναρπαστικό ανθρωποκυνηγητό των ληστών, τις διαφορετικές περιπτώσεις ληστειών σε πολλά υποκαταστήματα τραπεζών, μέχρι και μια απαγωγή και κατάθεση λύτρων και ξαφνικά λες και δίνεται μια αόρατη διαταγή η υπόθεση επικεντρώνεται στην έρευνα του Κρος και της Καβαλιέρε, με ψάξιμο, εξέταση μαρτύρων και πληροφοριοδοτών και μια βήμα προς βήμα διαλεύκανση της υπόθεσης, οπότε οι τόνοι έπεσαν σχεδόν κατακόρυφα.
Better than the last one but I still am not loving this series as much as some of his others. I will definitely continue on the series because I am hoping I like the future stories a bit more. Decent Read!
This book was sloppy. It was never explained why the Mastermind became the Mastermind. Solving the crimes was a series of unbelievable, unrealistic, and predictable lucky guesses by Alex Cross? In fact, the robberies and the hostage situations became predictable as well. The characters caught as the "Mastermind" came out of no where and were gone almost as soon as they were introduced providing no depth to the story. A lot of chapters with very poor development in the plot.
Better than the previous 2 books.The story didn't get too crazy - even though it was centred on a series of bank robberies which appear to have been carried out by different crews but the same person appears to be behind all of them - a man they call The Mastermind.
The Mastermind has a varied criminal career - which includes kidnapping and rape as well as murder.
Alex's love life seems cursed.The story was clever, but I had spoiled things a bit for myself by reading the backs of some of the later books in the series - so I knew who the Mastermind was already.
Excellent plot and a real page-turner - what a villain !!
I wish I could rate this more than 5 STARS, Definitely onto the next book Violets are Blue... INCREDIBLE!!!
Oh. My. God. I can't believe what I've just read. 'Roses Are Red' - book 6 in the Alex Cross series - has given me goosebumps. Action packed throughout, but perhaps not as gripping as previous books in the series, I was convinced this book would end up with a 4 star rating. Until I got to the last page. The very last page. What a spectacular cliffhanger of an ending. So now I'm left with very little choice except to get straight to book 7.
I feel like every time I read an Alex Cross book I am less impressed than before. The bank robbing is fun, but overall there just isn't much to this book.
This book is about a man named Alex Cross, who is a homicide detective, who recently saved his beloved, from a mass murderer named, Weasel.
In the book, Alex Cross comes across a new case, where a so called, "Mastermind," robs banks and kills all the hostages.
One of his internal conflicts, is him trying to find a new beloved.I came across a connection in the book.
When Alex Cross learns aboutthe Mastermind, this reminds me of how everday in the world, people are getting robbed, killed and all other kinds of stuff.
I would reccomend this book to anyone, who loves books, about homicide detectives.
So I was a little annoyed when the story states that Hayfield, Virginia was 80 miles southwest of Washington, DC, almost to West Virginia.
Nope, Hayfield is 80 miles NORTHwest of DC.
Getting off soapbox now.Quotes to remember:I suspect that waiting in hospitals is as close as we get to being in hell before our time, or at least in purgatory.Here's a nice image for a life in balance...You're juggling these four balls that you've named work, family, friends, spirit.
Now, work is a rubber ball.
The other balls - they're made of glass.
Patterson writes in short, punchy chapters and vivid detail, and i flew through the book, pulled forward by the pace.
check.Turning the last page, confronted with the twist and cliffhanger ending, I found I had absolutely no interest in the characters or how things turned out, so both books went right back to the charity shop.Perhaps this isn't representative of Patterson's work but, given the rate he churns them out, I suspect it is, and this left me with no interest in investigating his books further.
