https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153425.Near_to_the_Wild_Heart
On their own, they are two people sharing the love of one man, Otávio, who is floating between the stable, motherly safety of Lídia, and the wild, independent Joana, who can’t be owned by anyone:“Either I light up and am wonderful, fleetingly wonderful, or I am obscure, wrapped in curtains.
Joana’s conception of marriage shows her understanding of the human dilemma, and explains her unwillingness to blindly submit to a “happiness” that restricts her freedom:“And being a married woman, that is, a person with her destiny all mapped out.
To know that you can be and feel both is to be human: a free, thinking, living human.Fleetingly wonderful!
And disarmed she would answer: May they make a harp out of my nerves when I die.A quest for measuring the eternity and finding some sense in defining the immortality while the object of all desires remains nothing but one’s own life.
Maybe women’s divinity wasn’t specific, but merely resided in the fact of their existence.
She possibly saved her life through writing but she has definitely given me a new lifeline of her magical thoughts.
(I'm clearly besotted!) I don’t feel madness in my wish to bite stars, but the earth still exists.
Clarice Lispector by Giorgio de Chirico, 1945The title of this book is a phrase from James Joyce’s A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man: he was alone, he was unheeded, happy, and near to the wild heart of life.
When did she sleep, never mind make decisions about her book?While I was reading this book, I wondered what title Lispector would have picked for the work she described as a 
Joana, the main voice of this story, seems to live in a penumbral space between day and night.
The more we read about Joana, the more we realize that like day and night, and brightness and darkness, she is full of contradictions and oppositions: 
It is the delicate abyss of disorder carefully arranged with the abrasive and highly inquisitive stream of thought that marks her out, indeed, puts her above so many half measures, among the crowd of established fictionists, just with her one-book stride, accomplished at the youthful age of 23, when most people are happy to indulge in breathtaking romantic fantasies or truculent defiance of the status quo (whatever that might be) as a credible explanation of the existential puzzle....now she was sadly a happy woman.Clarice shook me out of my somnolent contentment and pulled me into a mirror house of transcendental imagery, leaving me trapped among reflections of illusion of the contorted self, standing at the elusive frontier between reality and imagination, between the physical and the mental, among a shadow cast of flickering thoughts like the flame of a candle, dully luminous and coldly pale, yet with the power to burn the complacent moth into nonexistence.
He was unheeded, happy, and near to the wild heart of life , it is Joycean Stephen Dedalus in quest of his own identity.Then the cover, intriguing and unsettling, as from some futuristic dreamscape, where some woman is lying as if she was sleeping or waiting .
Or maybe she prefers dreaming than living ?And so Joana is.
Joana examining her life, her soul.
Prose is elliptical and hypnotic, reminds Virginia Woolf in  Waves ; plot almost doesn't exist , and if - it's secondary, because what really matters here is Joana's inner life.
Lying awake in the dark, unable to sleep, thoughts running faster and wilder through your head, elegant arguments about life being chased by flights of fancy through phantasmagoric landscapes.
Yet for me she is consistent over the years in her enthusiasm for life in all its aspects, physical and metaphysical, and in her despair at the vastness and indifference of the universe.Any quotations taken out of context from this type of long, introspective novel is bound to be misleading and insufficient to capture the whole essence of the arguments, but for me they are still useful examples of the powerful personality and intimate confessions of the author.
Tutte le attenzioni dell'autrice sembrano essere qui irrimediabilmente calamitate da quel particolare momento della giornata (e dunque della vita) che occorre per ognuno di noi al risveglio, con modalità credo molto simili per tutti: la luce è debole e soffusa, l'intera stanza si compone di diverse sfumature di grigi, tra le lenzuola indugiano ancora gli echi e i sentori dei sogni, la mente non è più del tutto addormentata ma non è ancora del tutto sveglia e cosciente, e in tale stato può accadere di essere iper-ricettivi nei confronti di una qualche riflessione o sentimento particolare, e allo stesso modo può accadere di ripromettersi e figurarsi magnifiche sorti e progressive, epici cambiamenti che poi verranno regolarmente sgonfiati e smontati dall'inizio vero e proprio della giornata e dalla sua inevitabile routine.
Estava abandonado, feliz, perto do selvagem coração da vida."— James Joyce(Epígrafe de Perto do Coração Selvagem)Este é o primeiro romance de Clarice Lispector, escrito quando tinha vinte anos, e o oitavo que leio.
Comparando com as obras posteriores (para mim, anteriores), achei exageradamente palavroso, repetitivo, confuso, aborrecido...A história é normal (?).
(view spoiler)[A mãe de Joana morre e ela fica sozinha com o pai.
O pai morre e Joana vai viver com os tios.
Conhece Octávio, um professor, com quem casa.
Octávio abandona Joana e vai viver com Lídia, que tinha abandonado para casar com Joana.
Joana conhece outro homem que a abandona.
I was just reminded by my GR friend Glenn Russell of all the great Brazilian authors that I have neglected and not rated nor reviewed. What a shame, being a Brazilian myself! I will try to correct this lack in the near future, starting with Clarice Lispector. I read almost all her work years ago, including Near to the Wild Heart, but they are always with me. 5-stars and highly recommended.
Speaking of Lispector, and especially this book, the sensation that runs through the veins after reading is a dive so deep in itself, deep enough not to return to the surface as before.The narrative of the novel is broken, made of flashbacks of the memory of the main character, that fuse with his day-to-day, with the dialogues with the other personages.
Dialogues that do not appear much during the reading, but that always leave the feeling of being monologues, due to the fact that Clarice never leaves the perception of the mind of the character in front of words and external means.The novel walks in strenuous steps, in white silence.The book is hard to read, as it has been said, it does not come back to the surface as before.
Death as a metaphor loomed large in little Joana’s world: The listening ear is dead; the hens didn’t know they were going to die; her doll is run over by a car.
In one of her ‘now, now, now’ moments when Joana kept on pestering her father on what to do to fill her time, he had exploded, “Go bang your head against the wall!” It seemed that Joana spent the rest of her life doing just that.Near to the Wild Heart has some strong beautiful writing and Lispector is a wordsmith worth her salt.
What an intense and intelligent debut novel!I'll be reading more of Lispector for sure.I'd like to write a review for this down the track.4.5 stars.March 1, 2016
There aren't enough superlatives to describe Lispector's writings. Whereas The Hour of the Star reminded me of a Virginia Woolf novel narrated by a prick, this seems much more like a Nathalie Sarraute book. One that is tricky in seeming a bit predictable or pat, but then transforming into so much more. You win, Lispector, I'm now going to read all of your books.
Per parlare di questo libro indefinibile e infinito forse la celebre canzone di Guccini cantata dai Nomadi può servire: la Lispector mi ricorda la bambina portoghese (anzi, brasiliana) di queste righe - ricolma di sensazioni, pulsioni prerazionali che la spingono verso l'immensità della natura in uno slancio quasi panteista e vitale.E la sfida che questa 23enne raccoglie è epica, quasi proustiana: dare una forma a quel coacervo di forza vitale, fantasie ineffabili, intuizioni pre-razionali che agita la donna protagonista del romanzo, quella Joana che è evidentemente un perfetto alter ego dell'autrice.
Did you know that if you carry books around long enough, moving them from house to house, country to country, they become part of you.
You don't even have to open them.
I read this eons ago (I was in my 20's!) while living in Mexico City.
Yeah I read it in Spanish though it was written in Portuguese.
It would've been difficult I think to find it in English at the time.I liked it a lot...but remember little.
But hey, I DID read it!
I know I did.
But yeah.
I should read it again.
Maybe in English this time...
Near to the Wild Heart is a beautifully crafted novel of the interior, of betrayal, of feminine agency.
Joana, a precocious and surprisingly fatalistic, existential adolescent, grows up to be a distant if not "cold" lover to her husband Otavio, who goes on to philander on Joana with a former lover of his.Lispector's prose and style is wondrous and mesmeric, or at least as its rendered here by Alison Entrekin, fully embracing an elevated, poetic manner that slips effortlessly into a stream-of-consciousness style that does as much work expressing Joana's interior as the actual thoughts and interactions she had.
Selvaggerie e altre infinità.Il libro in questione è leggibile solo da chi non si attenda un romanzo e ami attraversare ponti di vetro, solido e trasparente, su dirupi. (Ponti di vetro, solido MA trasparente, su dirupi).
“È curioso che non sappia dire chi sono.
Traumatica per lei è stata soprattutto l'insopportabile morte del padre che le impedisce di costruire rapporti con altri e le impone una solitudine dolce ma anche opprimente.La trama del romanzo (peraltro inesistente) gira intorno a questo viaggio interiore che sembra non condurre da nessuna parte e invece (per me) porta proprio lì: da nessuna parte."Il vento, adesso, la lambiva duramente.
Il mare brillava laggiù, fra le onde stagnanti, si distendeva profondo, spesso, sereno.
Chissà, forse l'estetica delle parole era il vero obiettivo della scrittrice.Un esercizio di stile che purtroppo non sono riuscito ad apprezzare a fondo.
I stumbled upon an article from the New Yorker, about a collection of stories that was recently published, in which Lispector's work was compared to Nabokov's.
I found an interview with the translator, Alison Entrekin which I highly recommend: http://bombmagazine.org/article/6721/The writing style is quite poetic, although definitely not as flowery as Nabokov's (which isn't necessarily a bad thing, I just don't really see the connection to Nabkov that was made in the article I read)The novel is told in a stream of consciousness style, and you get to learn a lot about Joana's thoughts and feelings.
I also look forward to reading more of Lispector's work.
a 19 anni clarice lispector scrive così, affannosa e impetuosa come se non riuscisse a tenere dietro ai propri pensieri e tuttavia scegliendo con una spietatezza e un rigore adamantini i termini più appropriati per descriverli.
chapeau.alcune pagine le ho lette colma di ammirazione ma, strigni strigni, siamo alle solite: io col flusso di coscienza non ce la posso fare, mi rompo i coglioni, mi incazzo, mi metto in modalità mucca che guarda passare i treni, o tutte e tre le cose insieme come in questo caso.
e l'ammirazione non è stata sufficiente a farmi amare questo libro e questa scrittrice.due stelle e mezzo.
Libro fatto di guizzi di parole tra immaginazione stupefacente e realtà. Libro che coinvolge, a tratti, e allo stesso tempo non si lascia avvicinare. Si apprezza ma non a tutti è congeniale, a me perlomeno non del tutto.
An incredible book that everyone who loves Virginia Woolf should read!Highly recommended!
Cerca del corazón salvaje : ¡5 estrellas!Nada de objetividad. Todos mis elogios y admiración para Clarice. Cerca del corazón salvaje cuenta la historia de Joana, primero una niña y luego una mujer, incomprendida por todos, rara y diferente, que debe aprender a vivir y a convivir con el resto de la gente. Sumergida en esa confusión de su propio ser, sin necesidad ni interés más que en sí misma, en constante conflicto ante tal incertidumbre, se casa con Otávio, y él trae a Lidia consigo. Allí com
Cerca del corazón salvaje cuenta la historia de Joana, primero una niña y luego una mujer, incomprendida por todos, rara y diferente, que debe aprender a vivir y a convivir con el resto de la gente.
La narración está a cargo de una tercera persona, externa, que en todo momento se confunde con las manifestaciones de los personajes, y se debe estar algo atento para no perder quién es el portador de la palabra en cada caso.
It’s witchcraft.”… Sí.Cerca del corazón salvaje es una novela aguda e intensa, tanto en su contenido como en su desarrollo.
I think I went through it but I didn't know or understand what it was and I sure didn't talk about it to anyone, except maybe a little with a friend of my parents who was nothing like my parents.Reading this, I found it true that one person's introspection is not interesting to others.
However, though many people on Goodreads disliked Sheila Heti's How Should A Person Be, most of them thought this book was beyond great.
Near to the Wild Heart is esoteric novel about a married young woman, Joana, who not unlike the author herself, is consumed by her own hyper-awareness.
This is not a big thick Pynchon-like novel - each page filled with as many words that can fit.
Near To The Wild Heart is like a white dwarf star - it's not big in mass (it's only 186 pages) but is super-dense with thoughtful and spiritual introspection.
It's her struggle to use words to nail down nameless thoughts and ideas that makes this novel and the other writing great.
[Abandonado en la página 103].Not my cup of tea.Sencillamente no conecto con este tipo de narrativa deshilvanada. Seguro que hablamos de una obra capital y repleta de significado, pero a mí me ha aburrido soberanamente y no he encontrado en las reflexiones de Joana sobre la muerte, el deseo, la feminidad y el lenguaje ni un ápice de sentido, quizá algunos destellos dispersos.«Sobre todo tengo miedo de decirlo, porque en el momento en que intento hablar, no solo no expreso lo que siento, sino que lo que siento se transforma lentamente en lo que digo».
A wonderful first trip into the Lispector interior. Amazing work for such a young woman. Lyrical and beautifully written. Easy to see the Hermann Hesse influences. I am not sure at all how she pulled this book off, but the sophistication was remarkable. It was a very slow read for me as I really was not interested in much of what was going on in it, but it was interesting for me to behold this Lispector power, unleashed and untamed.
I give it 3 stars even though I have to honestly admit that I don't think I understood it full and I have the intention to reread it someday this year again.
51)Furthermore, I think reading her was like being in a dream and interchangeably wondered between reality and illusion, as noticed from strange words used in that context, as we can see from these three exemplary excerpts, only a few from innumerable queer expressions:A shiver had run down Joana's spine with the sorry cup of coffee in front of her.
67)From such amusing and insensible sentences impossible to use in daily life, we couldn't help but query on each sentence regarding the surreal underlined words are: (1) How was the cup of coffee sorry?
It is her first work...There ARE traces of what Lispector will become later in her career—philosophical poetry, fragmented narrative, and existential concerns—but to me, after reading 4 other novels by her, this is my least favorite, and probably the most boring.
Though the book didn't get underlined everywhere, there were moments and passages, of course, that were fresh and luminescent, but nowhere close to what she'd go on to write later on.On the whole, I'd skip this and read her later works.
