https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/949699.The_Great_Impersonation

4.5 *Excellent espionage suspense novel set in the time leading up to WW1. Two men who look amazingly alike, one German and one English, meet in German East Africa. Which one is it that returns to England as Everard Dominey?? Added to that is the mystery surrounding Dominey's wife and the circumstances which led him to leave England in the first place.I listened to the LibriVox recording by Tim Weiss which was fine though a tad slow in its pace for my taste.
I read about this book somewhere, so thought it was worth trying. Very dated tosh, especially when it comes to the women who fawn over the central character. All right if you read it as an example of the sorts of books people thought were thrilling back in about 1920, but not otherwise.
A most exciting novel a German intends to murder an Englishman with rather similar features to his, assume his identity and spy on the English high society. This tale is full of murder, crime, confused identity, blackmail, war, romance, politics, and theres even a 'ghost'... All the elements of an exciting adventure!!!
An amazing and breathtaking adventure, so incredibly well written that the reader stays until quite the end without being sure if the impostor is really one... A first book that I read by this Author, E. Phillips Oppenheim completely conquered me as a reader... The plot is interesting, the characters are subtly drawn by their Author and some become so endearing that it is almost sad to end the book!I really loved it!Maria Carmo,Lisbon, 7 December 2017.
E. Phillips Oppenheim became one of the most popular writers of mysteries and spy thrillers, in the UK and the US, producing more than 100 novels between 1887 and 1943.
I am currently reading Oppenheim's 1941 memoirs in which he describes how, on his first trans-Atlantic trip, he became so disgusted with the books and stories he had published to date, that he threw his copy of his first novel and all of his in-progress writing over the side into the ocean, and considered dropping .his writing career  The memoirs are written in novelistic style and so the pages turn very easily and rapidly.
Master Piece. Great!!A must read. I started this book on 7 PM and was so absorbed by it that finished it in the first reading on 1 AM. :)Just great, the plot events keeps you immersed in the book. I love how the author made such real characters and how he turn the pace of events.Everyone should read it.5/5
A slim novel with a great surprise at the end, I would love to see the movie, but couldn't find it.
I’ll admit, I did not expect the twist at the end, but it comes so late that it doesn’t really redeem the endless chapters of boredom.If the book was so boring, why did I read it then?
Because I’m producing the book for standardebooks.org!
I’ll hopefully have it published on there in the next week or two.
Also fair warning: there’s some racial slurs in the first few chapters while they’re in Africa.
I actually didn’t know Brits used the n-word; I thought that was an American slur.
The book was written in 1920; I’m curious if their use even raised an eyebrow back then.
At any rate, 90% of the book is conversations between the principal spy and his--not to spoil it, but--German masters, up to and including a meeting with Kaiser Wilhelm, who thanks him for his service.
At any rate, in the climax the hero finds a half-man, half-beast who has been howling outside his wife's window for ten years, (hence her delicate health), and turns the spies over to the Secret Service, thus revealing that he wasn't really who people thought he was but the other guy all along.
I thought Victorian/Edwardian gentlemen, like the author, were disdainful of "sentiment." My only complaint is that as a modern reader I seem to be less able to suspend disbelief, and I found some of the plot, particularly the parts that dealt with the "insane" Lady Dominey, a little far-fetched.
Also, I figured out a great deal of the mystery early on, which made the big revelation not as surprising but still satisfying.An entertaining read, similar in feel to the Gothic romances that were written in the 70's and 80's by authors like Victoria Holt.
I'm reading books recommended by this one:Thrillers: 100 Must-Reads by David Morrellhttps://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7...It received a glowing review therein. However, what I discovered was a very tedious, repetitious novel. We are told again and again each characters motivations. "Remember, sir, that conversation we had about your motivations? Well, I'll remind you of it now. It went like this..." Lather, rinse, repeat.The ending is a cheat and creates more questions than it answers. An author cannot have every character declare time and again that X is True, then at the end declare that they were mistaken after all.
Entertaining but kind of forgettableI quite enjoyed The Great Impersonation...
Despite it feeling somewhat dated in language, the story and characters were well developed and I didn't really see the twist at the end.
In fact, and I'm sure this won't be a popular position, but I didn't quite buy the end.
Dominey had been built up to be such a drunken loser that for him to have the nerve, cunning and ability to completely transform himself and take on the role as a duping Von Ragastein seems a bit impossible to me.Other than that, it is a fun, easy book to read, if being somewhat, in my opinion, a bit forgettable.
Wow. This adventure/mystery book was read by my mother when she was a high school student, and she suggested this to me. It is a intriguing story of two men, one who is German and one who is English, who look exactly the same. One is a spy for their country, taking the place of the other in society. Which one?
First published in 1920, The Great Impersonation is a classic spy novel. While it often reads like a farce (the author even put this in the mouth of one of the characters, the plot is clever if a bit far-fetched. Nonetheless, an entertaining read that every spy fiction fan should read. Now available for free as a Kindle edition, it was out of print for years.
Scary tale of duplicity and murder. Well read (Librivox) by Tom Weiss Recommended.
E. Phillips Oppenheim was very prolific.
A lot of his work can be classed as "alternative history", although this book does not fit that category.
The Great Impersonation has been described as his best work.
Based on the dozen or so of his books that I have read, I would agree.
The story basically concerns a German nobleman who is to become a spy in England before the First World War. To do this he is to assume the identity of an English aristocrat, who was called his double at Oxford.
The characters are representative of their time.
This is another book that I have read countless times, even though I know a lot of it by heart.
Great fun! Highly entertaining yarn of a plan for a German agent to impersonate an English gentleman (Everard Dominey) in the run up to the outbreak of war in 1913/14. So we've got the tension/danger of the espionage, the European political background, the upper-class English society at Dominey Hall, plus the side-story of Everard's mentally unbalanced wife and a pre-existing murder-mystery. EPO is such a good writer that he handles/interweaves all these elements in a seamlessly satisfying way, along with plenty of top-notch dialogue - truly the "Prince Of Storytellers" as he was known!
For one who is interested in lives lived under a false identity or image, this psychological thriller written in 1930 is both impressive and highly entertaining. The story, set in pre-World War I Africa and England,is fascinating as a period piece. The identity of the protagonist remains uncertain to other characters in the book and to the reader until late in the tale. The deceptions are convincingly done.
Bravo, E. Phillips Oppenheim! A great book from beginning to end, so interesting I finished a book of more than 300 pages in just two days. Interesting plot, great dialogue, and a surprise ending! I definitely recommend this book!
A WWI spy adventure, mystery, drama and love storyReminded me somewhat of Sherlock Holmes and Bulldog Drummond with a hint of Downtown Abbey. The Great Impersonation is a great read.
"The Great Impersonation" by E. Phillips Oppenheim is a classic spy story - that I had never heard of and wished that I had. Basically, it's a double-mole story set in time to that period just before the start of the Great War. A good story.
This took me a while to get through and I only stuck with it to learn the twist at the end, which didn’t turn out to be worth the trouble.
It wasn’t that surprising and happened right in that last few pages so there was no attempt to explain away any inconsistencies that arose from the reveal.
The writing is fine but the plot is very repetitive on both the political and romance fronts: not a lot happens.
For a spy novel, it’s surprisingly action- and tension-free.
(And note that it’s a product of its time with regards to some racial slurs and the way women are portrayed.)
Synopsis: in 1913 an English aristocrat is murdered by a look-alike double. The dead man's wife says nothing. Then the twist!
Não é um policial, é um thriller de espionagem que não se percebe muito bem porque o encaixaram nesta colecção.Mas é um excelente livro, que mantém o suspense até ao fim.
A great story - I loved this book.
WowInteresting reading. I'm pretty perceptive about how a book will turn out, but this one shocked me. Truly a joy to read.
Nicely written, good characters. I thought I had the plot figured out and was wrong.
The book is extremely dated and even racist in parts, but the concept and execution of that concept is absolutely brilliant.
A splendid taleA wonderful story. Beautifully written. Gripping and engaging from start to finish. Many thumbs up. I would recommend this book without hesitation.
