https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/988950.Dark_of_the_Moon
Most of Virgil's cases take place in the state's smaller towns and Virgil is assigned to assist the local sheriff's office which is often overwhelmed by a criminal problem more serious than the locals usually see.
Before Virgil can deduce a solution, other Bluestem residents will fall victim to an especially clever killer and it will take all of Virgil's physical and mental agility if he's going to save the day.This is a fun read and an excellent beginning to what has turned out to be a very entertaining series.
As in the case of Sandford's Prey novels, featuring Lucas Davenport, there's also a fair amount of wry humor that does not seem at all inappropriate, despite the serious nature of the crimes that Virgil is investigating.
Even a super cop like Lucas Davenport can’t solve every murder in Minnesota so John Sandford helped him out by doing this spin-off to the Prey series.Virgil Flowers is not your typical law enforcement officer with a thriving side career as an outdoor writer for hunting and fishing magazines.
Here at the beginning of the Virgil Flowers books, Sandford mostly pulls this off with the kind of story that should appeal to most Prey fans, but making Virgil different enough from Davenport not to just feel like a clone.Both characters are deft manipulators of people, but Virgil’s form is slyer than the Davenport’s.
Incredible. Virgil Flowers is so real I feel like I know him. Sandford is truly a craftsman from whom all writers can learn. Loved the book. Love Sandford. Love Virgil. Back to writing...
He’s just a good hearted guy from a small town who is so talented at problem solving and drawing people out that he was tapped by Lucas Davenport to handle tough cases by the statewide Bureau of Criminal Apprehension.
The murders of a retired doctor and retired sheriff has Virgil looking for either some transgression in the distant past that links the victims or for the threat of exposure of a current criminal conspiracy, such a meth production scheme.
Typically, John Sanford is one of my favorite authors. With this story, it helps to be familiar with Virgil Flowers as I found more palatable after getting to know the character. Fortunately, there are better Flowers stories ahead. 4 of 10 starsThis re-read from 10 years ago of the Virgil Flowers character. 1st read was 2-stars, the re-read, 3-stars and as previously stated, "there are better Flowers stories ahead." 6 of 10 stars
I admit I was worried that no man could compete with Lucas Davenport and I was right but Virgil is close and also different enough that I didn’t have any issues with confusing the characters.
Virgil had figured the case out and even we readers knew who it was but the author took us on a side trip for no reason that just dragged the story out way beyond where it needed to be.
Granted it helps him with the case but still even with those he seems semi-close to he is manipulative.
If the main character isn't having sex he's talking about sex or thinking about sex.
His adolescent obsession with carnality is obnoxious and exhausting and it usurps any potential quality from portions of the story that may have been admirable attempts at suspense in any other setting.Sandford needs to decide if he wants to write novels or forum letters and concentrate on one or the other.
Splitting his 'talent' is a shameful injustice to both novels and forum letters.http://bibliofilesbookrating.blogspot...
Finding myself in need of a lazy pleasure read, I remembered the couple of Virgil Flowers books by John Sandford that I had read before.
So, I decided to give this one, the first of the Flowers books, a try.
After finishing this, I'm closer to reading through the whole list.Virgil, an investigator with the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension -- a real life agency -- is sent to fictional, small-town-in-every-sense Bluestem, Minnesota, where murders of prominent citizens are way more frequent than they ought to be.
He very quickly gets involved with a woman who, it develops, may be a suspect.
More involvement.
Flowers is an excellent character.
I really appreciated the hard-nosed realism that he displays in a tough situation.
A very tough job & he handled it admirably.
None of the super long range shooting done with a gun that's been battered about.
The characters knew their weapons & treated them properly.
Wonderful!I've really got to read the Prey series now.
Flowers works for Davenport, the MC of the Prey series, who makes a few cameo appearances.
This is the second book in a row for Sandford & I'm impressed.
I was also impressed by his SF novel.
i am not a sandford fan but read a good review of this title introducing a new series based on detective Virgil Flowers..couldn't get into it...when Virgil sees a pretty woman and comments to someone about her ass and "cupcakes" I had to quit.
I mean really ...'cupcakes'?
What kind of grown up talks like that?
I am not interested in a character that hasn't grown up past the age of 13....
But then, maybe that's how the author talks about women as well - so who knows.
There are lots of good mysteries with adult characters ..I don't need to waste my time on this one.
Set in the back woods of small town Bluestem in the Minnesota hills, Flowers meets with the Sheriff to solve a string of murders so complex that even he himself has a hard time connecting the dots.
I really had a terrible time getting into the characters involved.
The writing style seemed so stilted, wooden somehow and it muddled my thinking enough to make me put it down after just a few pages at a time.
I've heard that after the first 2-3 books the Virgil Flowers series gets better but I'm not sure how soon I'll pick up the next, if at all.
The first Virgil Flowers book - great introduction to Virgil, also known as "that f___ing flowers". In this story, Flowers heads for the high prairie near the North Dakota border to investigate a murder that turns into a series of murders and some complicated family issues. Good read.
I don't think this stood a snowballs chance of getting a favorable review.Problem #1: EVERY woman, and I mean every single one of them, in this book was described by body parts (some a little more obvious than others).
I mean really.Problem #2: The way women were portrayed was laden with 'wishful thinking'.
Virgil, would talk for several long sentences, and the other person would say something like, "Wow." Then he would talk for several more long sentences, where then the other person would say, "Really?" Then we would add a few more long sentences and the 2nd party, who now strayed a tiny bit from their one word line, graduated to saying, "Oh my gosh." Problem #5: There was so much discussion about the facts; all tell and no show.
Audio narrated by Eric CongerConger speaks with the clarity that I know of that region.Although previously introduced in the 'Prey' series, we get the first solo Virgil Flowers.I like him and so do most people he comes in contact with.
While Davenport avoided marriage until his late thirties, it was said about Flowers "that boy was hitched so often that his face got rice burns".
***I hadn't heard that one before.Sandford's writing entertains me and I am glad to have another series to intersperse the reading.I ripped this story years ago, but waited for the proper order.
I'm glad that I did to experience the proper evolution of Sandford's characters.
I will be re-reading at some time.
And, oh by the way, he's one of the top investigators in the fictional Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension (BCA) known far and wide in the bureau as "that f***ing Flowers." In Dark of the Moon, John Sandford presents Virgil in a starring role in the first entry in his own series, a spinoff from his wildly popular "Prey" novels featuring Lucas Davenport.
The victims are a couple in their eighties, contemporaries of Bill Judd Sr. Sheriff Jim Stryker, a friend of Virgil's, is at a standstill in his investigation in both cases, so he calls in the state's equivalent of the FBI, the BCA in the person of Virgil Flowers, to help him with what appears to be the work of a ritual killer.
You will get quickly immersed in this book! I picked it up without knowing in the was the first book in the series; so I am glad I still have many more Virgil Flowers cases to follow him up on.Virgil Flowers is an BCA agent who falls upon a small town by the name of Bluestem where mysterious murders have occurred. Virgil gets more than he bargained for in trying to figure out who committed these heinous acts. Every town has it's own dark secrets that some townspeople want hidden forever & Bluestem is no different.
Never have I thrown a book across the room on its completion!!
I really really didn't enjoy this particular novel.The story was bitty for me, the writing was brilliant (don't get me wrong), I just didn't connect or care about any if the characters at all.
I didn't care who killed who or why, I skim read the last few chapters just so I could finish the thing.Why didn't I put it down when I wasn't into it in the beginning?
I have to give a book a chance but this one just wasn't for me!!
I love the Prey series by Sandford, so was looking forward to this book, and it didn't disappoint. Virgil is a fun hero, that seems like a guy that you know. It was interesting watching him slowly peel away the layers of the story, and face up to the fact that his friends were involved. I also loved the intereaction between Virgil and Lucas, those were some of the funnest scenes. Great new series!!
I just love Detective Virgil Flowers!! What a great lead character! He's got a great and likeable personality. It's very refreshing after the somewhat dark & hard-edged Prey series to find the same quality of writing but with a new (more upbeat) lead detective. I enjoyed reading this book because it remained suspenseful & entertaining.I can't wait to read the Virgil Flowers books nr 2 & 3.
Just about when I said enough of Sandford-- he is probably done-- and up jumps his Virgil flowers series that I just found.
Well I finished all of the "Prey" series and found book number 1.
in the Flowers series.I oved it..
Sandford created this character or introduced him in the prey series but now we get to know him from book one.
This series is narrated just as if you were on the scene as Flowers moves and thinks his way through solving the murder..
He leaves nothing out in the way of details...
Author John Sandford's newest detective series beginning with 2007's, "Dark Of The Moon", features a new protagonist who works for Minnesota's BCA named Virgil Flowers.
Most of all it's important to remember that Virgil Flowers works for the head of Minnesota's BCA who is author Sandford's iconic detective Lucas Davenport.
Davenport sends Flowers to the tiny town of Bluestem to investigate the double murder of local town Dr. Russell Gleason and his wife.
It seemed likely that whoever had murdered the Gleasons also killed Judd Sr. While getting to know the suspects in this town Virgil begins to cultivate an intimate relationship with the town sheriff's sister Joan.
As a fan of mystery/thriller novels, I am always looking for great new series to read.
Despite numerous recommendations, I have never read a novel by John Sandford.
In Virgil Flowers, Sandford has imagined an oddball protagonist that you can't help but root for.
I look forward to encountering this character in the other four novels in this series.
After reading this, I have to agree that John Sandford produces strong thrillers.
I reserved, inadvertently, the large-print version of this book.
I never read large-print versions of books.
I return them to the library and re-reserve the normal-print version of books.
Although I could read them without my reading glasses, I find large print books esthetically unappealing.
I usually would prefer to wait for the normal-print version.
I didn't notice it was the large-print version until I checked it out.
I read this book mostly because the main character, Virgil Flowers, is one of Davenport's state crime bureau investigators--scruffy, with an affinity for old rocker T-shirts, idiosyncratic, and prone to depression.

I didn't care too much for this book.
The sex dialog was awkward, unnecessary and some of it was just weird (like the sister getting completely turned on by spying on her brother having sex).
I get that Virgil Flowers is a really laid back and a really not "by the book" kind of cop, but getting personally involved with persons of interest in an active serial murder case sounds like a very bad idea.
I see from other's reviews that he is well regarded, so I might try another John Sanford book, but, if I do, not one with Virgil Flowers.
This book was a very good detective novle. It concerns a roge detective Virgil Flowers who does his own investigation his own way and overturns a meth lab which had been operating in high volume right under the noses of the police for upwords of twenty. There was also a small matter of five murders of elderly people in Blue Steam MN for him to contend with. I recommend this book to all. Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
Haven't read a John Sandford book in a while, mainly because all the Lucas Davenport books were starting to run together for me. But this book, with Virgil Flowers as the main character, was great! Total page turner, great action, vivid characters and some cool twists. I'll definitely be waiting for the next one of these.
i started reading this, it's the first in a new series, but i didn't like anyone in it. the main characters are so good ol boy ish, the way they talk and everything, ew. i couldn't. this may be good for some people but not me. I didn't even get a quarter way through. sorry.
Awful.I read about 50 pages of this book before giving up on it.Wikipedia says Sandford has written 35 books. How they ever got published is beyond me.
