https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48796.The_Secret_of_the_Golden_Pavilion
This was one Nancy Drew book that was pretty above par.
Yet another fun and exciting mystery featuring the famed teenage sleuth.
By this point, reading a Nancy Drew novel is like a visit with an old friend.
She was one of my biggest role models and one of the literary figures who impacted me the most growing up.Now that I am nearly sixteen, going back to read these books is different.
For example, I have a deep appreciation for all of Nancy's friends now, Bess and George, and even Burt, Dave, and Ned. Bess especially makes me smile as I read her character because characters with her traits aren't often created anymore.
Ned is Nancy's "special friend", but they fit perfectly together.It also struck me upon reading this book again how truly young they are.
A ghostly hula dancer, a black lei, a slippery slope.
Many more strange things happen as Nancy tackles this intriguing mystery.
However, at Kaluakua, she is surrounded by strange happenings.
Slowly, the mystery unfolds as Nancy not only solves the mystery, but learns some Hawaiian cultures and symbols.One of the many reasons I love this book is that it is always pulling you (or at least me) in to read it.
Another reason I love this book is that even though it’s not the scariest mystery, there are some scary elements.
For example, Nancy receives a black lei with poisonous tacks in it!
Another great addition to the Nancy Drew mystery book series.
I started this book with my granddaughter Jane when she was visiting over the holidays. Just had to finish it this morning. I will read it with her again during her next visit. Carolyn Keen is a master at ending each chapter with a cliff-hanger! Jane loved this aspect always pleading, "Read the next chapter! We can't stop here!."
This is my new favorite Nancy Drew book! It’s nice to see Nancy fly somewhere else than river heights! It’s a perfect mix with haunted parts, action scenes, and all you can wish for in a mystery book!
Not as good as I remembered although I am reading some of these books as a 46 year old compared to before when I was a teen. I just didn’t enjoy this one as much as The Clue of the Broken Locket.
I want to buy this book and walk through Hawaii with this is as a guide. It also highlights Nancy as a human being. She makes errors just like the rest of us. LOL.
I came across this in the library catalogue when I was trying to remember the name of Island Boy.
(Fiction set in Hawaii being my search term.) And I used to love reading Nancy Drew books, so I figured, why not.And now I wonder ...
where they always this, well, terrible?
Was the characterization always so thin?
Nancy is smart, George is a tomboy, Bess likes to eat?
(Seriously.
Here that was about it.)If I were wishing to introduce a young person to Nancy Drew, I would definitely not start with this book.
In fact I would probably skip it altogether.
Debating whether to rate it four or five stars... I loved it! This Nancy Drew book was just amazing! I loved picturing Hawaii, and I loved that Ned, Burt, and Dave were in it! I love it when the boys join Nancy and her friends on the case. I really would like to read more Nancy Drew books with the boys in it! It's really fun reading about them. I just loved it! Except I'm still not sure whether to give it a four or five... :/
This was enjoyable, as all Nancy Drew re-reads are, but there were just way too many coincidences in this one for me to buy the story.
I can suspend my belief a little with these books, but the fact that Ned and the boys were also randomly flying to Hawaii made me roll my eyes - and that was just the first of many "coincidences"!
Nancy is always getting threatened and kidnapped and even has her dog stolen in this book, but even with all that she somehow still lives a pretty enviable life.
Yikes! Nancy's adventures are always convoluted and chock-full of handy coincidences...but this one was a little over the top even for the most forgiving Nancy fan.Ah, well - there has to be an off-flavor in every box of chocolates! 2 Stars
I believe I have read this before as a child but recently purchased it to add to my Nancy Drew collection. It was nice to re-read it as I drank a nice cup of tea. Still lovely to read the mysteries of Nancy and friends even if I now lol at the writing style.
A welcome relief from many of the previous books in which the girls are only saved by the boys and Mr. Drew.
This is a fun mystery of a classic Nancy Drew style with amazing Hawaii base. All the fun and adventure of the best Nancy Drew books.
I love the Nancy Drew books but this one was my favorite.
Awesome book!I really enjoyed this mystery. I was on the edge of my seat for the whole book. I would definitely recommend the series to everyone.
The Secret of the Golden Pavilion  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 36th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. Attempts are made against Nancy's life when she accepts a case in Honolulu. She must decipher strange symbols written on a piece of paper in order to learn the mystery behind an estate inherited by her client. Why won't Mr. Sakamaki's grandfather allow him to sell the beautiful Kaluakua estate until the mystery is solved? Furthermore, who are these mysterious peopl
Why won't Mr. Sakamaki's grandfather allow him to sell the beautiful Kaluakua estate until the mystery is solved?
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
Nancy and her friends land in Hawaii to solve a mystery.
Nancy refers to it as the newest state and George gives the readers a lot of facts about the state.
Today we would never refer to it as our newest state.
What makes it dated is the culture - they eat dolphinfish which today is called mahi-mahi but the author spells it differently.
The lack of real violence in these books is unrealistic in today's world.
Nancy and her friends would be facing terrifying dangers that they never would have thought possible.
A grand treasure is tied to a sprawling Hawaiian estate, but the true heir is unable to figure out the first clue.
He hires Mr. Drew to help prove the others are impostors and Nancy to find the treasure.The girls with chaperon, Hannah, head off to Hawaii; the guys are headed there with college.
Meanwhile the bad guys do everything they can think of to thwart the young sleuths' efforts.Everything you expect from a Nancy Drew mystery, plus the wonderful Hawaiian hospitality and setting.
This is book 36 in the Nancy Drew series.
The story centers on a pavilion on an estate in Hawaii.
It opens with Nancy in a helicopter watching someone break into their house.
There are poisoned tacks on a lei, a hidden room under a pavilion, a series of strange clues, a fake ghost, more time in a helicopter, and a treasure hidden right in plain sight, if you happen to be a giant.It's a good story and, again, with some places where the reader is given a chance to learn about the culture of the area.
I remember this was the very first Nancy Drew book I've ever read and it got me started on the Keene mysteries, a big part of my childhood reading.
I must have liked it, it caused me to read all the Nancy Drew titles I could get my hands on, initially from our school library, and later elsewhere.
(It's all a blur to me now however.
I remember liking the stories as a kid, Nancy's titian blonde hair, -- the description stayed with me "titian blonde hair" -- plump Bess, tomboyish George, Hannah Gruen, Ned...I almost forgot Ned...
Carson Drew and Chief McGinnis...
This one opens with Nancy and her dog in a helicopter.
They fly over her house just in time to see a burglar sneaking into her attic, and the pilot radios the tower who dispatches police, but they don't catch him.
Of course.This is part of the travelogue series, and Nancy goes to Hawaii in this one!
And finds a crappy treasure.
Hannah and B&G and the three boys all go too.
The bad guy has a distinctive habit of drumming his fingers and touching the tips of his forefingers together.
Nancy's dog is kidnapped but escapes.
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew.
It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain.
Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy.
No brains.
To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation.
Carolyn Keene wrote just for me!
That is how I felt.
When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ...
I also loved the Hardy Boys.
No wonder I loved these series.Great for girls aged 8 and up.
Another typical Nancy Drew mystery. In many books I enjoy the fact that I learn something about a new area while Nancy is solving the mystery. In this book I felt like it was mostly about the area of Hawaii, and less about the mystery, though that was certainly there, too. A quick and easy read ...
In this story, Nancy and the gang (including Hannah!) travel to Hawaii to help a man keep control of his inheritance. They have to solve Hawaiian codes, the mystery of a ghostly luau dancer, and learn about native vegetation.
Nancy's your recovers the inheritance stated in an old Hawaiian gentleman's will and brings the dangerous Double Scorps Gang to justice, as her father, all lawyer, helps to set all the old man's estate. An interesting and enjoyable read.
This was my first Nancy Drew and I bought it as a tribute to my beloved Gram who had just come back from a trip to Hawaii. In those days, a huge undertaking and a very exotic destination even though it had become a state.One volume made me hungry for all the rest of them.
Ah, the beloved Miss Drew of River Heights, up to something, somewhere. They're like Nacho Cheese Flavor Doritos. Although they differ from one another, we perceive them as being the same. Which explains the successful formula of Pringles: now, with more more homogeneity.
