https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/836937.Synchronicity
We might think of great successes like Kepler or Newton, who changed our conception of the world with radical notions--but both men also had passionate ideas which they worked on their whole lives, and which turned out to be baseless--for Kepler, the notion that the orbits of the planets were based on the platonic solids, and for Newton the study of alchemy.While reading, I had my own moment of synchronous coincidence, when Jung quoted Kepler's notion of 'Geometric Unity' as an example of a philosophy of synchronicity--despite the fact that it turned out to be incorrect.
Part 1 is engaging but a little dull. Part 2, which is the so-called simple astrological experiment Jung conducted to test his theory, is all statistical math and thus incomprehensible to me. But the Parts 3 and 4 addressing similarities between Synchronicity and certain aspects of the world as explained in Lao-tzu’s  Tao Teh Ching, not to mention parallels with Virgil, Agrippa, Synesius, Kepler, Hippocrates and Schopenhauer, is alone worth the price of the book.
Jung's concept of synchronicity (i.e. acausal nonlocal meaningful coincidence) is presented with a beautiful calm and eloquence.
My reading of the book was motivated by a recent strikingly synchronistic experience of my own.
And it seems to me that my actual reading of the book is somehow, in turn, entangled with both this earlier synchronistic experience and also with subsequent events and experiences...
I purposefully use the word "entangled" because I'm quite open to the possibility that a connection may one day be revealed between Jung's synchronicity and the acausal & nonlocal features of quantum mechanics.
I must say that thought the famous psychiatrist and writer of the soul and this topic are truly compelling, reading Jung himself is difficult in that his language is awkward and not written for a general lay audience.
For those interested in Carl Jung and this topic I have heard from several people that it is best to read books about him than by him to truly understand his work.
In this book Jung was attempting to show how synchronicity works with the psyche, to prove its existence.
I could not understand it as the language was too awkward and hard to follow.
He begins the book with the following statements:1) Natural laws are statistical truths, which means that they are completely valid only when we are dealing with macrophysical quantities.2) The philosophical principle that underlies our conception of natural law is causality.3) Their [Acausal events] existence - or at least their possibility - follows logically from the premise of statistical truth.4) But if the causal principle is only relatively valid, then it follows that even though in the vast majority of cases an apparently chance series can be causally explained, there must still remain a number of cases which do not show any causal connection.5) Chance groupings or series seem, at least to our present way of thinking, to be meaningless, and to fall as a general rule within the limits of probability.6) Should this proof (of acausal events exceeding the limits of probability) be forthcoming, however, it would prove at the same time that there are genuinely non-causal combinations of events for whose explanation we should have to postulate a factor incommensurable with causality.7) Because of this quality of simultaneity, I have picked the term "synchronicity" to designate a hypothetical factor equal in rank to causality as a principle of explanation.
I personally would add two thoughts to Jung's discussion: 1) Rather than a globe which has longitudinal lines which begin at the same source (which, it could be said, is God) and latitudinal lines which illustrate events which connect individuals as they go along their individual paths, I think the diagram should be more a bunch of lines starting at one source which all have erratic shapes and whose coincidental "collisions" are represented as specific intersections between the actual lines.
For example, I feel that in Asian societies where people collectively believe more in their interconnectedness, one might actually experience more strange coincidences than they would experience in a society that did not think that way.
Sting identified this “missing” principle as that of synchronicity; defined as connections of meaning (rather than physical cause and effect) deriving from an original or pre-existing unity of nature.
Whereas Einstein unified space and time, commonly thought of as separate factors, into the composite of space-time, Sting thought a similar meta-concept was needed to articulate the essential unity of causality and synchronicity, the two connective principles.
The book is far from being easy to read, some preexisting knowledge on brain anatomy, Jungian psyche concepts (unconsciousness, anima, animus, the Self, the Ego, etc...) and eastern philosophy (Tao and I Ching) would come handy.
But if one is willing to let go of that and embrace the idea of Tao, which posits that the whole is included into each part, and that each part carries the whole within it, much like a multi dimensional fractal, where not just properties of space and matter are distributed in such way, but also time itself (try to imagine a multi dimensional space-time-matter Mandelbrot set), then the Synchronicity phenomenon becomes much more trivial and actually inevitable.
I am always looking for these events in my life. When they come around it is abundantly clear and is always amazing!This is a book that I refer back to when I believe a synchronistic event is taking place in my life.
It doesn't make for light reading but a must read for those who like myself intuitively know to be there a direct open line of communication between the world of the psyche and the quantum reality that in ways completely invisible and entirely counter-intuitive to Newtonian physics supports our everyday, observable macro-cosmic reality.
Clearly not the strongest work by Jung but maybe one of the bravest ideas in the 20-th century.
Synchronicity, or the idea that two or more events can be connected meaningfully but acausally (that is, one does not cause the other) is an intriguing concept.
However, I actually found myself less persuaded about the concept after reading Jung's book than before.The first problem is that the book is not well organized.
I happen to agree with that assumption, but you can hardly discount that possibility when your whole point is to develop a theory of an acausal relationship.In sum, synchronicity is an interesting concept, but I don't think one needs to read this book to gain an understanding of it.
A fascinating read. It's so interesting to see such a great mind wrestle with what appears - then and now - to be easily looked down upon as mysticism or just plain chance. Would have loved to have dinner with Jung. So learned and yet so open to possibilities he didn't fully understand.
Probably would have given this a higher rating if I had understood it better. Made my brain tired but opened up new vistas of thinking about things.
Fun. Science and Spirit merge in Jung’s thorough discussion of various ancient to modern approaches to attempting to understand synchronicity.
I wish I could say I understood the statistical analysis of his experimental method… I recommend https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5...
as great parallel discussions.
They have never been entirely robbed of their numinous aura.”“It is generally believed that numbers were invented or thought out by man, and are therefore nothing but concepts of quantities, containing nothing that was not previously put into them by the human intellect.
Under these conditions they might easily be endowed with qualities that have still to be discovered.
Jung proposes the possibility of an acausal relationship between events.
There are some moments in which he is a little confusing, especially when referring to statistics, to the point the Editors had to add a note explaining what was going on.
The Astrology bit was a little annoying especially until I realized that his concept of "tradition" is very different from our own due to historical contingencies.
Other than that the examples are amazing, the review of parapsychological literature very interesting and the final step of the Astrological experiment very revealing.
It was a great way for me to start reading Jung.
Una obra, de poca extensión, que sin duda puede despertar a mentalidades anquilosadas en el racionalismo reduccionista imperante hoy día.
Em outros, "coincidência" (ou sincronicidades) inexplicáveis chamaram a atenção do Mestre, o que o levou a tecer considerações interessantes sobre o assunto.Além da astrologia, que Jung obviamente estudou bastante, há considerações sobre o Tao Te Ching, I-Ching e outros assuntos relacionados.Para os não iniciados nas bases da astrologia, algumas partes do livro podem ser difíceis de entender, principalmente no que diz respeito aos símbolos gráficos utilizados e os aspectos.
Para o estudante ou curioso, basta uma rápida pesquisa em websites dedicados à astrologia para entender pelo menos o que significam os símbolos e os aspectos, já que foram pouquíssimos os apresentados no livro.O trabalho é uma boa fonte de informação sobre o que Jung tentou explicar com suas pesquisas.
Since the notion of causality cannot explain the occurrence of meaningful, connected experiences, Jung hopes to find a separate principle of explanation -- an "acausal orderedness." Although Jung does respect empirical thinking, he leans on the discontinuities of modern physics and the relativity of time and space as ways to dismiss skepticism about certain types of pseudoscience.
Overall though, he brings up a wide range of ideas to support his argument for synchronicity, which he defines as, "the simultaneous occurrence of a certain psychic state with one or more external events which appear as meaningful parallels to the momentary subjective state -- and, in certain cases, vice versa" (25).
His critiques should be taken seriously by the scientific community so as to eliminate premature conclusions which consequently breed certainty in the mind of the researcher, and provide ammunition for mass media outlets to serve the desires of corporate America.It is in this way that I encourage any Jung fan, or "mystically" (absent of any negative connotation) inclined individual to take part in this brief, intriguing read.
Little did I know, starting to read this book on the winter solstice, how synchronicitious my life would become while reading.
The most surprising event happened shortly after New Year's Day and covering a teacher's grade seven class: Mesopotamian math, Andy Goldsworthy's nature art, the Fibonacci spiral and fourth state of water all seemed to have an underlying connection that would best be described as acasual but nevertheless made an impression on my consciousness.
Reading this book at any other time, it would have been just a weird coincidence, but I wasn't reading this book at another moment of spacetime.
Carl Jung define la sincronicidad como «una coincidencia significativa de dos o más sucesos en la que está implicada algo más que la probabilidad aleatoria».La sincronicidad se compone de dos factores:a) Una imagen inconsciente entra dentro de la consciencia, ya sea de forma directa o indirecta (simbólica o sugerida) a modo de sueño, idea o premonición.b) Una situación objetiva coincide con este contenido.El ejemplo clásico es pensar en un amigo y que este justo nos llame o nos visite.Las sincronicidades suelen suceder con mayor profusión en periodos de transformación: nacimientos, muertes, enamoramiento, psicoterapia, obra creadora intensa, cambio de profesión, etc.
Back in the 1980s when I was in High School there was a band called the Police.
I was going through a British phase and I purchased all of their albums.
One of them was called Synchronicity.
I loved the album so much I read the book the album was named after.Synchronicity is the experience of two or more events that are apparently causally unrelated or unlikely to occur together by chance, yet are experienced as occurring together in a meaningful manner.
Unrelated?
But definitely synchronicity.The book just explains the theory.
The album was too good!
This lecture is indeed one of the more curious of Jung's writings.
Yet it is an idea that I believe is needed in light of 21st Century Perception of the World as a world that participants with Consciousness and is not separated from it.
The experimental chapter I found to be a bit confusing, but since I am not the best at math that might explain why.
But the Philosophy and Historical Background to the notions of Synchronistic Events I found to be most interesting, knowing also that our own Emotional State can have a larger influence on our Awareness then previously thought is another rather liberating point as well.
The works of Jung, I think are highly imaginative. He really delves into our inner minds and sees what other scientists may not consider to be whole truth. This book was based off Jung's attempt to prove things that are basically unprovable, for example, that our dreams may contain some hidden inner knowing of what is to happen sometime in the near future, and that it can, for the most part, be proved by chance or synchronicity.
Synchronicity as meaningful coincidences is real and further research into psychic phenomena is warranted. It may lead us to an Individuated awareness where the Self has been acknowledged. The key to our spiritual freedom.
Jung's writing is dense with references to other work, and it made it difficult to get very immersed in this. I have been fascinated by synchronicity for years now and wanted to go back to the source itself, but wasn't as satisfied by it as I would have liked.
Jung inadvertently proves that there is a mental process that we can call 'beautiful thinking'...
A must read "Synchronicity" a bible for a stimulating mind also inspired my affection for the peyote. A book you must return to several times.
Excellent. Challenging, insightful, groundbreaking and very bold exploration of a most interesting field!
