https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1853673.Alberta_and_Jacob
One moment she was crushed to the ground by life's misery, the next, new strength coursed exulting through her - it was like madness.It was easier to love the younger Jacob.
Jacob tells Alberta that she should at least try the impossible of pleasing their mother, reminds her that their parents are pitiful.
There isn't a crime Mrs. Selmer is guilty of that Alberta, Jacob and the Magistrate don't inflict themselves.
Alberta isn't religious herself, will do anything to avoid church, but wishes her father was sitting in the front row with the correct people of town.
Maybe if it were possible to be Alberta's Jacob, and you had yourself.
One encounters Alberte struggling with the immense cold stealing coal and kindling and occasionally sneaking into the kitchen to drink enormous quantities of scolding coffee to stay warm.
I loved how Sandel described Alberte waking up in the cold winter morning.
Cora Sandel is a wonderful writer and certainly very focused on Alberte's inner world.
The novel is semi-biographical describing the inner and outer world of a woman coming to terms with life.
It slowly builds one's own impressions allowing one to process and to know Alberte in a very different way compared to most other novels.
There is much that is familiar here - the sensitive and artistic young girl at odds with her provincial, bourgeois surroundings - but three things in particular make it stand out.
Firstly the subtlety and richness of Alberta's inner life is powerfully done, and far in advance of much being written at the time.
Secondly its critique of the patriarchy is similarly well done - no hectoring or long lectures, but done with clarity and suggestions of repressed rage.
Finally the prose itself is just lovely - filled with some magnificent lyrical descriptions of landscape and with a great ear for dialogue.
This is a brilliant, bleak, beautiful piece of writing. The prose is raw yet refined. Cora Sandel certainly knows how to capture the essence of loneliness. This book resonated deeply with me; it placed its finger roughly on sore places.
“The truth was Alberta only knew what she did not want.
She had no idea what she did want.
And not knowing brought unrest and a giddy sensation under her heart.
She existed like a negative of herself, and this flaw was added to all the others.To get away, out into the world!
Beyond this all details were blurred.
She imagined somewhere open, free, bathed in sunshine.
Read this if you like Colette's fantastic The Complete Claudine quartet.
4+ eller 5-. Jag vet inte. Men detta är ett djupt, sorgligt, starkt och vackert familjedrama.
Beautifully written, beautifully translated.
A literary friend here in Oslo loaned me this book, one of a trilogy by Cora Sandel based on her own experiences as a young woman in Norway at the turn of the twentieth century.
This first volume is set is a grim little town in the far north, and the story is about as bleak as they get.
Sandel's alter-ego, the young woman Alberta, is plain, shy, tremulous, and almost mute with anxiety both at home and abroad in the community.
I'm thinking that this volume reveals Alberta in the chrysalis stage, and I wonder how she'll develop.
Excellent first in a trilogy , a young woman trying to find her voice in a small village in northern Norway. Semi-autobiographiclal
The "Alberta" series is all great.....
When you're young and you're frustrated by your emotions, your inability to make the world work the way you think it should, life can seem unbearably unjust.
You may even think of taking your life to end all this hurting, and even succeed at it, as did my own poor sister.
But you may get a glimpse of the drabber, infinitely more hopeless lives of older, saddened and resigned people who despite all that, go "back to it" day after day, step by step, until it's ended, and realize that there it is, life, to be met full on and made the best of.
Poetic style with a emphasis on personification, making feelings seem more like affects than emotions, and also leads to a sense of alienation. Also an interesting portrait of a small town in the Northern part of Norway, and how that town is viewed by the capital (Kristiania - now called Oslo). A sympathetic and well written heroine.
This is one of those books where you as a reader just drop into people's lives and get an idea of what's going on in their world (and their heads) as events unfold.And in this case it's really engaging as we go through a year or so, which makes for huge differences when you're that far north up the Norwegian coast in a very small port town.Recommended.
Bleak, but great.
"To get away, out into the world!", 9 June 2016This review is from: Alberta and Jacob (The Alberta Trilogy) (Paperback)Read during a trip to N Norway, which undoubtedly brings the dark, bleak world of the teenage 'heroine' to life.I absolutely loved this book and the descriptions of Alberta's feelings as she struggles to survive in a middle class home under the eagle eye of disapproving, disappointed Mama.
And a throng of people, none of them her relatives, none of whom could criticize her appearance and character, and to whom she was not responsible for being other than herself."But life goes on - the darkness, the intense cold, the poverty, the disapproval, whether she hangs back shyly or consorts with "the wrong sort." I adored it and am reading the second in the trilogy.
The story is set in a small town in Norway, above the arctic circle.
In the novel, part one of three, Alberta must deal with the harshness of the location and with the repression and narrow values of the community in which she lives.
She reflects on the turmoil associated with that (as you might describe the feelings of an adolescent of today.) Sandel is able to capture thoughts and conversations that ring true for her characters.
In all, it is a very believable story.Sandel excels in her descriptions of nature.
NORTANA has a nice set of discussion questions for the book at: http://nortana.org/reading/alberta-an...
Det som grep meg mest med boka var Albertes reaksjoner i de sosiale situasjonene hun ofte havnet i.
Det var enkelte scener i boka hvor jeg mista litt interesse, særlig ved pasasjer av gjengitt sladder (som nok er viktige for bokas realisme, men likevel ganske kjedelig).
Jeg vet ikke om denne boka var tiltenkt som starten på en trilogi (som det etterhvert ble), men slutten av denne boka var ikke særlig tilfredstillende, selv om den fungerer som en (foreløpig) avslutning på Albertes selvrealisering.
Cora Sandel really managed to capture the pain of loneliness and the longing for just a little more room, a little more freedom, while being trapped by borders of impossibility drawn around you by others. Alberte's possibilities in life are controlled by societal conventions, and her life becomes encased in a narrow tunnel because of it. Yet she has an incredibly rich inner life, so many feelings, thoughts. Her mind is incredibly rich, and one of the things that made it worthwhile to read this book.
min kopi af bogen fra ca 1930 er udgivet i 1970. bagsiden citerer anmelder, der kalder bogen en bedrift i kvindelitteraturen. forfatteren er en stoe kunstner og bogen er lødig. ingen af de 3 ord ville man bruge på den måde i dag.fantastisk beskrivelse af det indestængte liv. Det ser ud til, at der skete noget med borgerlige kvinders opfattelse af deres liv og roller omkring 1925erne. Dette er den 3. bog fra perioden, hvor kvinderne er meget utilfredse med de muligheder de får som mor og gift.9
* 1000 novels everyone must read: the definitive list: Family and SelfSelected by the Guardian's Review team and a panel of expert judges, this list includes only novels – no memoirs, no short stories, no long poems – from any decade and in any language. Originally published in thematic supplements – love, crime, comedy, family and self, state of the nation, science fiction and fantasy, war and travel – they appear here for the first time.
What a depressing book! Everybody's unhappy, they're always cold, and anybody decent has the good sense to leave town. A classic!We came across this author while in Tromso, she lived there for some years. One of the local museums had some of her paintings and a description of her books. They sounded so interesting we had to read them.
4,5 Stars.En av de nydeligste romanene i norsk litteraturhistorie. Vakkert og skjørt om livet i nord.
"But she had not mobilized all her courage, not summoned up her strength over the past two weeks, for nothing. Those who are not bold by nature can be rash, once they have unleashed themselves."
