https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/880.Pompeii
This is the story of a latter day Super Mario, an Italian plumber who overcomes very difficult challenges to fix the water supply to Napoli and surrounding areas before the local volcano erupts to ruin everything for everybody.
OK, I admit that I am grossly trivialising a tremendous story, which is really about Marcus Attilius Primus, the aquarius, or chief water engineer, who is sent to the Bay of Naples to manage the water supply to all of the towns in the area.
His predecessor disappeared mysteriously, and neither his team of engineers and slaves nor those masters who govern Naples and the surrounding area, are inclined to trust the new aquarius.
I have been a bit fascinated with the idea of Pompeii since I was a girl and the National Geographic ran photos of the people frozen in mid-flight trying to escape the horrors of the eruption of Vesuvius.
Robert Harris has visited Pompeii through the story of Attilius, the engineer in charge of the aqueduct that served the area.
Attilius seeks to repair the breach in the aqueduct and this leads him to be in Pompeii at exactly the wrong time.I did enjoy reading the story.
I can imagine that much of what people felt and the reactions that came too late were exactly as Harris depicted.
Many authors try to be story tellers, but they over write or have not the skill and under write, or get caught up in too many tangents, thinking that everything they do has to be with the single intent of delivering the next great International Epic Bestseller.
Very well done, in my opinion, but no epic.I do not know if the geological and volcanological elements would put others off, whether others may prefer a story about people only, but I happened to find them extraordinarily fascinating.
It should be a Two-For-One: A suspense novel to take to the beach; and some insight into life in the Roman Empire and the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius.
He falls in love and is stalked by bad guys who want to shut him off permanently.
The hero is REALLY, REALLY NOBLE, the villain is AWFULLY, AWFULLY EVIL, and the love interest is darned good looking.
Life in the Empire is similarly exaggerated with lingering attention to the grotesque and decadent but almost nothing about how most people lived.I was relieved when Vesuvius erupted.

The water engineer heads out amid widespread corruption in Pompeii, thwarts a murder plot, finds out what happened to his predecessor, falls in love, and investigates the ominous rumbling from the nearby Vesuvius.
The whole reason for the engineer to rush back to Pompeii after escaping it is because of this love interest and as such everything feels very contrived.
It's this lack of convincing that stops the reader in their tracks because there's no real reason, once the eruptions start, to care what the engineer's motivations are.
Harris does a great job of setting the scene but once Vesuvius erupts he somehow manages to make it boring.
This book was just okay for me. I liked the historical side of this. I have always found this story kind of 'sadly fascinating'. I just didn't find 'that' in this book. This wasn't particularly character driven. There was a problem with the water plaguing the area and it focused mainly on that without giving depth to the characters. There was a lot time and detail that went into this problem, but I needed that same attention to detail regarding the people. The historical part felt well done; the fiction part just didn't grab me.
Attilius's occupation is an aquarius in the Roman Empire, a job description that nowadays would be "director of waterworks operations and maintenance for the southern district of Italy." As the earth beings to swell and shake in ominous warning in advance of the tragedy that is to come, the main aqueduct cracks and fails and Attilius is sent out to repair it.
So this is a historical novel and we learn of life in the Roman Empire around AD 79 at the time of the eruption of Vesuvius.
Πάντα θαύμαζα τα ρωμαϊκά υδραγωγεία,αυτό το θαύμα της μηχανικής,και πάντα με γοήτευε η ιστορία της έ
It’s rather challenging to craft a gripping novel based on a catastrophic historical and geological event – the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius in 79 A.D., – but amazingly Robert Harris does just that.
Harris has created a vibrant political, cultural and social setting against which the story is set paving the way for a rich historical fiction that literally runs alongside the geological events, which Attilius starts assessing two days before the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius.
To successfully write an historical fiction about the eruption of a volcano a couple of thousand years ago and make it interesting, exciting and educational, well, that’s quite a feat!
After a day in Pompeii -- my mother claims I walked through every single house: not true, some are inaccessible -- I heard people on the platform of the Circumvesuviana local train talking about this book.
Obviously, it invents things, and I don't know nearly enough detail to know exactly what, but what I do know, for example the appearance of the explosion and the details about Pliny, seemed accurate.Obviously, as other people have observed, there can be no suspense about whether Vesuvius will erupt or not -- spoiler: it did, and Pompeii was destroyed; that's just historical fact, like the sinking of the Titanic.
The young engineer is now the Aquarius, in charge of the immense aqueduct serving the entire bay of Naples.
Of course, he does have a very beautiful daughter who appeals to Attilius for help.There’s trouble bubbling up for our hero, and it’s not just political corruption, bribes, missing persons, and bad plumbing.
There’s something very strange about the high, flat-topped mountain close to the aqueduct.
Will the hero be able to save the heroine, or will she need to save him, or is everyone going to end up toast in the explosive conclusion?
I decided to read this book because my husband and I will be visiting Pompeii and Herculaneum later this year and it seemed like a good idea in preparation for the trip.
I was not disappointed.
The reader knows going into the story that things will not turn out well for Pompeii and yet despite that I was drawn in and hoped for survival for at least some of the characters.
I really wanted to keep reading until I was done.
I would definitely recommend this book to others.
خيبت توقعاتي هذه الرواية.. كنت أتوقع أن تكون أجمل بكثير ، مملة ومكثفة جداً بالكاد أنهيتها..
This novel by Robert Harris is in many ways a nice complement to that, especially since it is narrated by a Roman engineer responsible for the aqueduct that supplied water to the coastal towns on the Bay of Naples, Pompeii among them.
Marcus Atillius sets out from Miseneum, the terminus of the great Aqua Augusta, to find out what has caused the water to become sulfurous, then to stop flowing altogether, in the towns that rely on the aqueduct.
My favorite character is the historical figure, Pliny, the great ancient Roman naturalist and scholar.
Explosive!!!In a little over seven hours, one thousand, nine hundred and thirty-six years ago Mt. Vesuvius will have finished the eruption that created the tourist attractions that we know today as Pompeii and Herculaneum.
Hellen in 1980, and know first hand what the ash fall was like, as a resident in Portland, Oregon, the time sequence and statistics of the volcanic events were fascinating!
The story of the Aquarius, Attilius and the Roman water system called the Aqua Augusta was well written and a poignant human interest addition to the character at the center of the action.
3  starsI have wanted to read this book for a decadeI’ve loved science, and particularly geology, from a very early age, and chose a science class in 5th grade that focused on volcanoes, so my interest is long standing. I think a non-fiction book about this eruption, if it contained all the known information and conjectures, might have been an even better choice for me.I got used the fictional story and it did provide a fairly good backdrop for the setting and happenings in that time and place.
3 ½ starsI have wanted to read this book for a decadeI’ve loved science, and particularly geology, from a very early age, and chose a science class in 5th grade that focused on volcanoes, so my interest is long standing.
I think a non-fiction book about this eruption, if it contained all the known information and conjectures, might have been an even better choice for me.I got used the fictional story and it did provide a fairly good backdrop for the setting and happenings in that time and place.
Particularly at the end there were things I both loved and hated in the historical fiction story.
Not 5 because there were one or two frankly cheesy bits!Robert Harris brings the eruption of Vesuvius to life in this account which starts 3 days beforehand when the signs were there for anyone with sufficient knowledge to recognise.
This is a fascinating account of the build up to the eruption, with each chapter headed by a quote from a scientific journal explaining what was happening inside the mountain.
It then took half a minute or less for those who had survived the rock showers to be choked by a cloud of gas and ash that came rolling off the mountain which is why their bodies were entombed in positions of flight and fear.
Absolutely fantastic, and entirely unputdownable. At first you're unsure what kind of route Harris is going to take on Vesuvius' eruption as it opens with talk of aqueducts and engineers, but in the space of a few hundred pages, he recreates the bay of Naples vividly and realistically, so you really do feel get an idea of the timescale and the emotions, all built in to this great read.
Nope. Not for me. I almost DNF this book. When I willed myself to read it, I just skimming it without understanding the story.
Audiobook #188
It tells the story of Pompeii via character of am Aquarius (water engineer maintaining the incredibly advanced roman aqueducts” – Attilius.
He is concerned that water is failing (and contaminated with sulphur) also his predecessor has mysteriously disappeared – all of it seems to lead to Pompeii and a ruthless ex-slave who made his dishonest fortune rebuilding the town after an earthquake (and who seems to have diverted water with the connivance of Attillus’s predecessor).
Mystery then leads to Vesuvius itself – where he finds his predecessor’s body.
Good but not brilliant book – was hard to really understand descriptions either of engineering or of the eruption.
Harris has given us a wonderful version of what it would have been like to go through the eruption of Vesuvius.
The engineer is an unassuming character dedicated to his work.
As I read the novel I was taken back to the city of Pompeii that I saw as a tourist.
But it is now a city that is much more alive for me than ever before.I would definitely recommend this book to those who love historical fiction and also to those who love a good story.
ينطلق أتيليوس ويتمكن من إصلاح القناة بمساعدة تابعيه والعبيد الذين قدمهم له إمبلياتوس، ولأن موقع العطل كان قريبا ً من جبل فيزوف يكونون شهودا ً على بداية ثورة البركان، حيث يهرع العبيد عائدين إلى بومبي ترافقهم كوريليا ابنة إمبلياتوس والتي كانت قد فرت من منزل والدها الذي يحاول إجبارها على الزواج من ابن مالكه السابق وعضو مجلس المدينة، وجاءت إلى أتيليوس لتنذره مما يضمره والدها له، ولكن أتيليوس يقنعها بالعودة إلى المنزل وقبول حياتها رغم مشاعره تجاهها، يتعرض أتيليوس بعد هذا لمحاولة قتل ينجو منها، فيعود إلى مدينة ميسينوم حيث قائد الأسطول الروماني والمؤرخ العجوز المهتم بالطبيعيات بليني والذي يقود حملة إنقاذ، مصطحبا ً معه كاتبه، مقدما ً وصفا ً شاملا ً للحادثة، جعلت ذلكم الشكل من الانفجار البركاني يسمى الآن في علم البراكين بالثوران البليني، حملة بليني تفشل سريعا ً، وتجنح السفن التي جاء بها إلى مدينة ستابيي وتكون نهاية بليني هناك، ولكن وصفه والأوراق التي كتبها عبده خلال الرحلة تصل إلى يد ابن أخت بليني والمعروف تاريخيا ً باسم بليني الأصغر.
I was curious how Robert Harris would write a novel about the day Mt. Vesuvius erupted and buried the city of Pompeii.
I discovered within the first few pages that Harris used a couple of tried a true methods that are used in those movies.
First, we all know what's going to happen, so he starts with a countdown, beginning two days before the eruption.
Next, each chapter is prefaced with an interesting fact about volcanoes and the havoc they wreak.
You'll have to read the book to find out.
I gave this book 4 stars because the protagonist (Marcus Attilius Primus) and I share the same profession - that of being a civil engineer.
I was fascinated by the Aqua Augusta, the aqueduct that brought fresh water to people in nine towns around the Bay of Naples including Pompeii.True, we all at least know what happened in Pompeii due to the eruption of Mount Vesuvius.
So at first I was a bit unsure about reading this fictionalized account of one of the most infamous cataclysms in human history.
And yes, the novel was a bit of an underwhelming experience save for the Aqua Augusta but almost half of the plot revolves around it, so, 4 stars.
There's a lot of potential in this story but it falls flat. I'm a big time enthusiast of Ancient Rome but after some 80 pages or so I found myself being challenged to continue. The main problem seems to be that the suspense level isn't cracked up enough and most of the characters aren't compelling enough. Pliny was the most compelling character. CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: B minus; STORY/PACING: C; HISTORICAL CONTENT: B ; OVERALL GRADE: C plus to B minus; WHEN READ: December to January 2011.
I fell in love with how he fell in love with her. How he went back for her, despite everything was ending, despite all the endings.
"Men mistook measurement for understanding.
And they always had to put themselves at the center of everything.
That was their greatest conceit.
The earth is becoming warmer - it must be our fault!
The mountain is destroying us - we have not propitiated the gods!
It rains too much, it rains too little - a comfort to think that these things are somehow connected to our behavior, that if only we lived a little better, a little more frugally, our virtue would be rewarded.
But here was nature, sweeping toward him - unknowable, all-conquering, indifferent - and he saw in her fires the futility of human pretensions."- Robert Harris, Pompeii
Diesmal konnte mich die Geschichte nicht packen.
