https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/185293.Skybowl
The final book in the Sunnerrunner's world.
At least Meiglan redeems herself and isn't quite as stupid or insipid as she was when she first was introduced and Pol grows up some as well.I like that the end of the book, the end of the war, is also a new beginning which the readers are left to imagine for themselves.I always feel a little sad when I get to the end of this book, closing the pages on a whole world and a whole set of characters, but that just goes to show how great the books and the writing are.(edited for grammar)
Some shit did go down, but the final battle did not strike the right chords for me.As was my complaint with the last two books, there are too many characters with too many similar names.
I also could not keep track of which minor characters were Sunrunners, though again, some of those were obvious and I had no problem (such as Rohannon or Meig).In general the series has a tendency to tell us about an event that could happen, build up to it, and then fizzle.
This happened multiple times with things about Andry and the trickle of information the reader gets about why the Vellanti’m are even there.
nothing to add - see review of The Dragon PrinceI seriously cried when this series ended.
A final end to the world of Sunrunners that Melanie Rawn has painted.
An end...
and a new beginning.
I loved this one as much as the original trilogy.The pacing of the story is fast, and there's no let up as events unfold towards a final conclusion.
The author certainly holds back nothing in trying to paint the sometimes pointlessness of the nature of war.As usual, you can see the characters grow up, reconcile with themselves and others, and almost all of them come to redeem themselves at the end.The final concluding chapters were both bittersweet and very touching.
Both a reminder of earlier happier times and the makings of a new beginning.
Where do I start? Maarken... Rohannon... Sethric... Chayla... Meiglan... Rislyn... Kazander... Sioned... Audry... Meath... Chay... Tobin... Alasen... Sionell... Beth... Tilal...It was a stunning ending with the final battle leaving me feeling wrung out and yet oddly satisfied. All of these characters just made the book for me. Rawn's talent for making the reader feel so immersed in the world is astounding.
This book is the third in the Dragon Star Trilogy, taking place after the Dragon Prince Trilogy again it starts out to be a very politically oriented story line but turns into a great saga. The story keep your attention and takes you into a world of High Princes, Sunrunner magick and evil sorcery. It is a good read for any dragon and fantacy lover.
Epic ending to an epic series. It's been so long since I last read these, I've really enjoyed my extended reread! I must have been of a more spry mind when I was a teenager because each time I read them again I find it harder to keep all the family and political connections straight! I didn't even really try this time 🤷🏻♀ Gettin old! Mel's writing has its flaws (oy, the fat shaming!), but the good massively outweighs the bad. The magic system is so unique, well-defined and downright cool. The dr
Epic ending to an epic series.
It's been so long since I last read these, I've really enjoyed my extended reread!
I must have been of a more spry mind when I was a teenager because each time I read them again I find it harder to keep all the family and political connections straight!
I didn't even really try this time 🤷🏻‍♀️ Gettin old!
Mel's writing has its flaws (oy, the fat shaming!), but the good massively outweighs the bad.
The magic system is so unique, well-defined and downright cool.
I could go on, but honestly you should just read them.
This is me right now: The wonderful thing about Melanie is her ability to yank the tears right out of me, even for characters I either barely know or don't like all that much.
The only thing that bugs me every time I read this is that although the mirror is amazing, we don't get nearly enough detail about it!
It bothers me to death, because that mirror is fascinating to me and I want to know as much about it as possible.
Basically this book is amazing and I want to live there.

a magnificent book, the war is on and though many favourite people lose their lives its a great ending to an epic series. Andry and pol work together but then the need for power is too much!! love the way melanie rawn ties up all the loose ends at the end of the book, a great ending to a great series. am going to miss these books!!
You'd think Hamlet, but get the Winter's Tale. Don't mistake, there are bodies everywhere in just about every state possible. Also, really wish Melanie hadn't burnt out. Slearly thee is something brewing with Chayla and Mieg and Jihan and all of that generation. Speculation is good, but Melanie would've gone even further. But what we got is damn good.
A wonderful ending to my favorite series as a teenager. The plot line moved quickly, the plot twists were surprising, and the ending brought closure to the series.Another reviewer reminded me of the fact that I cried at the end of the first reading... and the second reading, and the third reading, and every time I have finished the series.
The Achilles heel of the Stereotypically Irrational Invaders is found and exploited, the invasion is thwarted, the killings stop, we feast, brief return to excessive description of dresses, huzzah! It's a nice little plot. Makes me feel strangely better about my marriage, as my wife is a nearly dead ringer for one character who helps save the land.
I believe this is the third or fourth Time I have read through this series. Along with Dragon Prince series before it. I love this series. Melanie Rawn is a inspiration to me. I hope I can be as good as she is, at storytelling.
I lost it with Sioned's choice....I... I don't really know what to do now. I want to know more--Pol and Sionell; Meig; Rislyn; the next generation--but I know there won't be more, and it's both infuriating and heartbreaking.Also, in the Andry vs. Pol debate--I can't stand either of them. :P
I loved this series. I laughed. I cried. I LOVED theser characters. This series is awesome!
The very first fantasy/sci fi story I ever read. Unforgettable, addicting and amazing.
Rarely does a series affect me as much as this one did. Well written, with an amazing world that kind of reminded me of Dune, I literally hung on every word. Fantastic!
I read the two trilogies that go together years ago and was enthralled by them.
I'm saddened to see this series come to an end. Very well told, and intriguing every step of the way. I laughed, I cried and I worried. I couldn't wait to finish, yet dreaded finishing it.
Still good...but I hope you wern't attched to all the characters...
Great book and series. Should still hold up well today for new readers who want to be engrossed in great character development and good story telling.
It is a toss up for me on the best epic fantasy series. I think my favorites would be Rawn, Tolkien, Williams & Eddings but had to follow my heart and say this series was the best for me.
It introduces many characters over the span of dozens of years, and explores both close, loving, familial bonds as well as the motivations of ancient hatreds and long-standing feuds.In this final story, High Prince Pol tries to rescue his beloved wife from the mysterious, overwhelming, and indefatigable enemy, the Vellanti'm, before she becomes a human sacrifice in a misguided ritual.
However, in this book I was conflicted at times by the author's use of rambling summaries of the many characters previously deceased as she tries to enlist our sympathies of the motivations of Pol and his allies.
Great Last Book! I love the political intrigue of the various princedoms. This was a strong chapter in the ending of a great series. I wish the author would return to this world one day. I think she would have a ready audience. I'm not a big fan of her most current work but I would simply devour another Sunrunner book!
While waiting for something new from the usual reads, I found these Melanie Rawn books. I read books pretty quickly, but this final book in this series took me over a year to finish. I wanted to find out how it ended, but it was just a chore to pick up. I kept at it, but was terribly disappointed by all of it.
I would love a short story on Jihan.
Aside from the story line, I enjoyed the humour and strong characters (particularly the strong women) described within.
Everyone has their distinct personalities, which remains consistent throughout, and with depths discovered along the way.
I did, however, personally find the length a bit of hard work, especially having read the entire series through in one hit (and possibly due to circumstances requiring me to read the book in fits and starts.
Still, I enjoyed reading the series, and they remain on my "to read again" shelf.
These books are all very good, in general.
There are no real break through or any thing I would call out as being particularly good or inventive on the authors side, but the writing is done in a way that allows you to be pulled into the world.One weakness of this author, is the frequent sex scenes, it seems for this author a recurring theme in her books is sex, sexual tension and sexuality in general are only a tool for manipulation and control.
I found this to be very foul and it sours my mouth in general on the first three.
I had this feeling towards the end like Melanie was running out of pages!
And had to condense a lot of the wrap-up into a short, vague mess.
Pol goes from "I must have Sionell!!" to "being resigned not to have Sionell" within only a few pages, without much in between, and there is not much of a feeling of resolution there.
Unlike in the other books.
And considering we read for six books already...
it would have been nice to have more wrap-up in general.I also agree with another reviewer that we don't get to see into the Enemy enough.
