https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/734529.Freedom_Train
Started teaching this book on my last sub job. Decided to finish it. It was good but I think the hard parts of escaping from slavery were kind of glossed over. They just made it sound like she walked right up to the Pennsylvania line and hopped over. I do get, however, that it was a kids book so probably too much detail was not a good thing. It was a good story and I think the kids are going to really enjoy it.
Harriet Tubman is indeed the type of hero that America should always hold up in a great light, for she was one who cared deeply for freedom, deeply for people, and was willing to do whatever she could to set free those who were in bondage.
It covers everything from how she was treated as a slave, how closely knit her family was, about her head injury, how she escaped, why and how she returned countless other times to free more slaves, how she helped at hospitals and in the army during the Civil War, what life was like for her in Auburn, NY, and all about the singing she did.My sons really loved learning more in depth about this courageous woman as I read this to them.
Her master hires her out to other farmers, on a job Harriet ends up meeting another slaved named Jim who ends up telling her that he has run away many times and tells her about the Underground Railroad that helps slaves escape to free territory.
The book continues to tell her story throughout being married and how she successfully helped more than three hundred slaves escape to free territory.
As she gets older she continues to fight to end slavery which she finally gets to see in 1863.I chose to read this book because I wanted to find a historical fiction book for students to read that wasn't boring and had them interested in the material.
what i learned from this book so far is that harriet is a brave harted young girl,and by the way she can take a licking and keep on ticking.even though she had to literary eat scarps of food to live not just to stay healyhy but just to stay alive because she was a slave &because she was a african-american,i think this is a book that our generation will love to read over and over again.book of the century!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
A great read for 5th graders learning about American history (specifically Harriet Tubman, the Underground Railroad, and the Civil War).
She single-handedly brought over 300 slaves to freedom through the Underground Railroad.
It is astonishing that she eluded detection with 19 trips across slave territory.
We laughed at the mention of Harriet sleeping on a bench beneath a “wanted” poster for her capture.
I firmly believe that she had divine intervention helping her along the way."I was conductor of the Underground Railroad for eight years, and I can say what most conductors can't say – I never ran my train off the track and I never lost a passenger."Sterling’s account of Harriet Tubman’s life was fascinating, and my kids and I loved it!
I read this in the sixties when I was a kid.
Back then the rural school I attended didn't teach anything about Black American history.
So, reading this book, I got the impression that Black people didn't have much to do with American history, except for rare instances like Harriet Tubman.
It's a shame because I missed out on learning about a whole lot of interesting people.
Now, of course, as an adult I've caught up on all that I missed then, and I'm glad to see that this book is still in print to continue to fascinate children with this brave woman's story.
literature is meant to reveal the hidden truth , to unveil the secret pain and to highlight the sorrow of those who suffered for their light of freedom ... The freedom train is a book about the human pain and strength ... about south and north , about freedom and slavery ... about the journey ofHarriet Tubman ... can't wait to read it for my own children ♡ ♡ ♡ "تي حتى تعرسي بنيتي قلو متشوقة تقريهولهم" thank you Omi for bringing me back to reality -_-
I thought this book was very interesting and made me appreciate the freedom that I have in my life. I think Harriet is a true hero and has more love towards other people than anyone I know. At some points in the novel I found myself wandering and a little bored. Overall I would read this book again.
I have read this book annually since I was introduced to it while in elementary school. I would recommend that all children should read this book for a glorious interpretation of what Harriet Tubman did for slaves during her time. Very insightful, very educational!
When I was little, I loved this biography about Harriet Tubman, and to this day I enjoy reading it and letting her bravery inspire me.
I read this book during the reading time while I was tutoring...I learned more about Tubman and her incredible bravery...
i like it
Unknown
The story of Harriet Tubman. This also makes a great reference book which includes great facts and events by date and year at the end of the book.
found on my bookshelf
It's not boring like other history books. I really think that all the slaves are really brave.
I thought it was a great book on Harriet Tubmens life.
I learnded that Harriet Tubman is a hero to black people.
where i learned the always useful fact that harriet tubman had narcolepsy from being hit on the head with an iron
In the book “Freedom Train” by Dorothy Sterling, Harriet Tubman was a slave in 1827.
At only the age of eight, Harriet was going to be trouble for her master.
“Some day,” she said, “I’m going to be free!”That day was coming closer as Harriet grew older.
Harriet was tired of working as a slave.
One day, Harriet,s master died, leaving her and the other slaves on the plantation in the care of the mean mistress.
Harriet overheard the mistress talking about how they were going to sell everyone on the plantation to the cotton mills down south.
RL: 6.2Lexile: 915Fountas & Pinnell: UThis is a well written account of Harriet Tubman's life.
A feature in this book is the last chapter entitled, A Matter Of Fact, that includes letter the author received from those that knew Harriet.
The author includes very vivid descriptions of the setting.Organization: The chapter headings beg you to keep reading.Sentence-Fluency: The frequent use of commas help to drive the sentence flow.
The text is well written and would be a challenge for most elementary students.Word-Choice: The author uses descriptive phrases: Always promised herself; She told him fiercely; The more vigorously she sang.
This is truly the only book I can remember disliking so much in childhood that I did not finish it, so I read it as part of Book Riot’s 2018 challenge, task #24.
To be honest, I don’t remember if it was assigned or not, but it’s commonly assigned to students and was a fifth grade book where I used to teach.
I suspect these parts were a bit over my head as a child, and that this is why I didn’t finish the book.
Not an easy feat, and one that a lot of children’s books about this time period don’t even truly attempt.
For younger audiences, but this is such a wonderful introduction to Harriet Tubman, her determination, drive, strength, and persistence in bringing slaves from the south into Pennsylvania, New York, and--after the Fugitive Slave Act--Canada.
She led hundreds of men, women, and children to freedom, crossing back into slave territory time and time again to bring people to safety.
During the Civil War she served as an army nurse, hospital administrator, scout, and front line general in South Carolina.
Called both "Moses" and "The General" she is one of the true hero's of the 1800's and the fight for the abolition of slavery.
Wow! I knew Harriet Tubman was a conductor on the Underground Railroad, but I had no idea just how amazing her life was. This book chronicles her life from a slave with no last name to a free woman. Along the way she becomes a soldier and a nurse. She works with suffragettes and is friends with some very influential people. Books like this make me thankful I get a second education homeschooling my children.
Inspiring true story of a brave black woman that crossed racial and gender boundaries to accomplish her calling to lead slaves to freedom. She was a poor woman who could neither read nor write but came along side of white generals in the Civil War because of her wisdom. Harriet also took on many worthy causes and impacted the world with her impossible feats. Her story is one to learn from and be admired. I was moved to tears and felt I had lost a dear friend by the end of her life's story.
A great introduction to the heroine Harriet Tubman. A good amount of details are quoted directly from letters, but the story is not bogged down with details. The style recounts many amusing stories, such as the time she used a couple of chickens as a distraction, and the pigs that were named after Confederate leaders. While the story can't be told without religious allusions, the author does not give any attention to the religious views of any person in the book.
Read with kids for school. What an amazing story. I actually do not remember learning that much about Harriet Tubman as a child in school, this book was awesome for me to read as an adult and learn what a truly inspiring human she was. The kids both loved it and were amazed at her tenacity and willingness to help even at her own risks.
I am still not done reading this book, but so far this book is very good! It talks about the struggles of Harriet Tubman's life and her journey as a slave and her struggles. It also talks about how she fled a life of slavery for freedom up north. She married John Tubman, who was a free man, in 1844. She is an inspiration to many people. She also served as a nurse in the Civil War.
This is the true story of Harriet Tubman's life. It's sooooo much more than the Underground Railrod. I had no idea she served in the Union Army and was active in the Womens' Rights movement! A quick, entertaining read. This would be a great read aloud to your kids. Harriet Tubman is a great role model!
