https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1535134.The_Snail_on_the_Slope
One part of the book is spend on Pepper POV who is the guy working in the research institute right outside of the forest with another POV by Kandid who used to be an employee of the same institute, but ended up in the middle of the forest as a result of a plane crash.
Unfortunately, the modern First World countries are rapidly approaching this kind of absurd and the majority of the Third World countries already have it, so the book did not age at all - and I really wish it did so we can only read about high bureaucracy and not witness it firsthand.Kandid.
That is the ONLY type of book (intended to criticize Soviet Russia/USSR regime) they COULD write at that time without jeopardizing their own privileged professional positions in the Soviet Russia society of that time ...The whole idea was to make the real social content of the books be understandable just by the elite audience(to which the majority of Russian people did not belong ...)They (Strugatsky brothers) were of course thrilled by the challenge they were facing - to manage to "sneak" that inner hidden sense into the book without doing harm to themselves.The authors should be truly praised that they masterfully and even I must say brilliantly accomplished their above described goal.In general it was "fashionable" way in the latest stages of USSR, which started in 1960th and lasted until the "Perestroika" period, in all areas of the "intellectual art" to hide the critical view against the Soviet regime by bringing other "unrelated ;-) " topics ...For example the play (see below link) http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/An_Enemy...
Stvarno pažljivo čitam i mislim za sebe da imam nešto u glavi, ali ja ovo nisam kurca, ponavljam, kurca razumio!
Onda sam dobio od tate onaj komplet od Narodne knjige i ponovno pročitao Puža i skužio da je knjiga duplo veća i da ima jedan sasvim novi dio unutra...majko mila(Kentaur, palac gore!).
MIslim, shvatio sam da je šuma koliko-toliko živa, da su stanovnici šume ogrezli u atavizam i poistovjetili se s prirodom (čak su neki govorili da je Avatar pokupio neke ideje iz ove knjige, ali su onda pročitali Noon universe serijal i skontali da ima više veze s tim nego ovim...) Uglavnom, probat ću ponovno za koju godinu, možda sam previše očekivao, ali ova knjiga me, nakon pročitane zadnje stranice, ostavila 45 minuta da zurim u strop i opasno razmišljam o svojoj inteligenciji.
Absurd mulle üldiselt meeldib ja selle teose lugemisel oli iga järgneva peatükiga üha rohkem tunne, et jälgin kellegi (õudus)unenägu.
Nii et see pani pidevalt raamatu järele haarama, et taas uus peatükk või paar läbi lugeda.
Samuti sai iga peatükiga üha selgemaks, et samas vaimus lasevad Strugatskid lõpuni välja ja ilmselt tuleb ka lõpplahendus veidi ebtavaline ja mitte just must-valge.
Nii ka läks ja tervikule pani see sobivama punkti, kui ükski "ja nad elasid elu lõpuni päikesepaistes ja sõid lilli" või "deemon nülgis nad ära ja kasutas nende nahka WC-paberina" tüüpi lõpp.
Czy to rozmowy Piereca z Książkami?
Czy z Lasem?
Czy niezwykłość tego ostatniego?
Czy niemożność porozumienia?
Czy wrażliwość Piereca?
Czy różnorodność motywów przewijających się na kartkach książki?
A może to, co wszystkie te motywy łączy, czyli poczucie uwięzienia, determinacji własnego losu, na który wpływ ma się niewielki, a może i żaden?
Wszystko naraz zapewne.
Być może moje skojarzenie poszło po narodowości autorów, ale czułam delikatne podobieństwo stylu.I to, że wszystko tam może znaczyć coś więcej niż tylko to, co widać na wierzchu.
Dla mnie książka magiczna i zdecydowanie polecam.
Warto bardzo choćby dla sceny kąpieli Piereca.
See oli tõesti tore üllatus, et Tigu täismahus maakeelsena ilmus. Olin kogu aeg kahelnud, et kas keegi võtab selle väljaandmise ette, kui pool raamatut on meil juba olemas. Huvitav oli kõrvutada vana ja uut tõlget Valitsuse osale, minu meelest väga head tõlked mõlemad.Valitsuse ja Metsa põimik moodustas tõesti täiesti uue sünergia, mida poolikut Tigu lugedes ei tekkinud. Lausa ekstraklassi lugemisvara...mis oli aktuaaalne N.Liidus, on aktuaalne meie E.Liidus ning kindlasti saab olema aktuaalne ka kauges tulevikus kuskil Gal.Liidus või Keskpäeva Maailmas.
Макар и, както казваш, сюжетът да е по-скоро фон тук - ефати сюжета!
Такива фонови сюжети само да има!
Бих направил незибежния паралел с Вонегът, но дори и той да е неоспорим факт по това направление, двата подхода за изтласкване на сюжета на задна линия са коренно различни и уникални сами за себе си, затова ще оставя тази част само като задължителна вметка.
Приятно се изненадах и от наличието на свеж хумор тук-там, макар като цяло той да не подхождаше на атмосферата.
Изграждането на образите и света, който обитават пък изглежда като детска игра, въпреки не особено големия обем.
I don't know what to really say about this one.I get that it's trying to make an analogy of insane bureaucracy in soviet Russia, but I just don't find the story or writing that compelling.The two main characters, Pepper and Kandid, are on the two sides of this eternal struggle - one in the insanely bureaucratic Forest Directorate which seems to have something to do with the nearby alien forest (clearing, studying, destroying, keeping guard of, invading, all of the above?) and the other one of the human inhabitants of the alien forest, and it's mysterious fungus, swamp and deadings.In both cases they are outsiders, not really familiar with what is going on, and struggling to little effect against the nightmarish and illogical rules of their environments.
это талант — написать героя, который на поверхности кажется невероятно симпатичным и вроде преподносится как думающий, но при этом на голубом глазу мечтает «встретить бы хоть одного человека, просто человека, неидеального, но способного принять» прямо рядом с солидным списком требований, которые этот самый Перец к людям выдвигает и без соответствия которым ему не приходит в голову принимать их.
он вызывал у меня много гнева при чтении даже и до последней главы (там-то как раз всё органично).
но это, разумеется, не минус книги, а, наоборот, плюс.часть Кандида показалась мне скучнее, но вот эти самые заговаривающиеся крестьяне и мучения от неспособности думать описаны здорово.
Кафка в лесу. Замок, Процесс и Америка в постапокалиптическом антураже. Две истории двух устремлений, стремящихся в одну сторону из разных точек, но (парадоксальным образом) постоянно удаляющихся друг от друга. Абсурдистский ответ на вопрос: кто мы, откуда, куда мы идём? Несуществующая история цивилизаций, которым не суждено развиться. Регресс и беспорядок. Улитки на полотнище вечности.
After finishing the book it becomes clear why authors considered this story their most perfect and accomplished on.
Despite that the book catches you and brings you in the world of the Forest right from the first pages and you greedily read page by page just to figure out what is going on, and when the main question is answered some dozen of other questions are left to be answered by you.
So was this allegory for communism and idiotic bureaucracy?
The first half reminds me of absurd drama (I don't like absurd drama).
And even though the criticism is still on point in many countries (doing paperwork for the sake of doing paperwork) that doesn't make it a good story.
The whole premise of the book is sort of boring if you think about it.
One of the heroes wants to just leave the station and is being blocked by stupid regulations.TL;DR Story with potential in it's ideas, but I think it could have been made more enjoyable to read.
I shelved this one as "science-fiction" for no other reason than that I intend to do so with all books of the Strugatzky-bros. Only it reads more like a Kafka-Novel. A bit lengthy too. I must confess I was a little bit proud of having made it through the whole story (many years ago)fter finishing - hence only 3 stars.
Речь аборигенов очень напоминает дискуссии на научных конференциях.
Though its two parts, the story of Pepper and the tale of Kandid, were published separately and in two different magazines, their impact was still strong enough to earn the Strugatskys the disfavor of the Soviet government.
As that symbol, the forest is never completely described or understood, nor is its relationship to the city or the rural village completely defined.The Snail on the Slope is a tale of the search for self, an understanding of the world in which one lives and how the two are related.
For Kandid, it seems to symbolize a government like that of the Soviet Union trying to spread as far as possible.
Ilmselt võisid paljud ette aimata, mis postile Perets lõppeks maandub ja kui poleks olnud vahelduvate peatükkidena “Metsa” lugu, oleks kogu rapsimine sootuks segaseks jäänud.
Ma pole küll teab mis kaua tolles “õndsas” ühiskonnas elanud, kuid mingi mekk on siiski külge jäänud (kasvõi hilisemate raamatute lugemise või lähedaste meenutuste läbi).
Vaikija) nimi oli ilmselt autorite poolt tahtlikult tuntud pärmseente perekonna nime (Candida) järgi valitud, mis nii inimestele kui loodusele palju peavalu valmistavad.
See lugu oli mu meelest kuidagi terviklikum ja paremini teostatud ning ka seletused – kes ja miks – on siin mingil määral välja toodud ja aitavad lugejal üldist pilti kuidagi kokku traageldada.
The story alternates between the viewpoints of two characters: Pepper, who is obsessed with entering the forest, and Kandid, who is trying to get out of it.The Directorate is a dystopian organization that gets darker and more surreal as Pepper becomes more and more tangled in its bureaucracy, but never ceases to be absurdly humorous.
Just as Pepper is helpless against the bureaucracy of the Directorate even when unexplained events place him at its head, Kandid comes face-to-face with the masters of the forest only to end up back where he started.It's a very dense and engaging read that poses a multitude of philosophical questions, definitely not your run-of-the-mill sci-fi.
I have not read many books by the Strugatsky brothers, so it was a bit difficult for me to kickstart this one. But once all disbelief was suspended, what I found was a clever, profound and interesting view on the world, on people and progress, on society and on different ways to interact with it. It is, for me, a very actual book and a true jewel everyone needs to read. Give it a shot, even though the first pages are a bit tough for you.
zašto, o, zašto ste štedili papir gospodo iz kentaura? gdje druga polovina ovog romana koji je slutio na dobro?! ljuta sam.

Because this book is epically full of nonsense, though evidently on purpose.
In that sense, it's a more realistic estimate of first contact than your "humans in alien clothing" type encounters you get with most sci-fi, though I had to mentally distance myself a few billion light years from this book before risking to use the word "realistic" in its direction.
Then you're at the end, and you don't feel at all bad about the words skipped because all you want to do is make the nonsense stop.
Oh yes, I promise you, this book does end.
Recunosc ca datorez o parte din elucidarea misterului cartii si lui Liviu Radu, care face o excelenta analiza a tuturor operelor A&B Strugatki in postfata de la finalul acestui roman.Romanul prezinta doua povesti paralele dar complementare.
Cei doi protagonisti incearca fiecare, pe cont propriu pentru ca cei doi nu se intalnesc niciodata, sa razabata dintr-o parte in alta, padure->oras/oras->padure, cautandu-si conditia umana ce depaseste viata cotidiana care se rezuma la sex, mancare si bautura.Cu toate ca multe dintre romanele lor par sa aiba un mesaj trist, fatalist, acesta se termina totusi intr-o nota pozitiva in care triumfa ideea de rezistenta la ideile care impiedica progresul (ideea de progres apare in toate operele Strugatki sub forma invadatorilor sau a progresorilor, cei care ajuta civilizatiile inferioare).
Personally I enjoyed book a lot.
Despite really hard understanding of what's going on in the beginning, after you've managed to get through some part of it, you start caring more about the form of storytelling and about some really philosophical thoughts instead of trying to put together the bigger picture.
A lot of parts of book went to quotes and notes, there was just so much truth in them!
I don't think it would be that deeply understandable by non-CIS resident.
Strugatsky is just exceptional in native!The main question for me after reading the book is - are we really moving forward on the slope?

This is an English translation of a classic by Russian sci-fi writers Arkady and Boris Strugatsky. Now I need to read more of their stuff, because this one is brilliant. The writers were raised in the Soviet Union, and the story is a serious, thorough critique of that era, hidden cleverly in science fiction metaphor. It's about the Administration, an overwhelming bureaucracy, and one poor dude who longs to escape it into The Forest. It's thoughtful, and leaves the reader with good stuff to chew over, like the most classic of classic sci-fi.
This is an English translation of a classic by Russian sci-fi writers Arkady and Boris Strugatsky. Now I need to read more of their stuff, because this one is brilliant. The writers were raised in the Soviet Union, and the story is a serious, thorough critique of that era, hidden cleverly in science fiction metaphor. It's about the Administration, an overwhelming bureaucracy, and one poor dude who longs to escape it into The Forest. It's thoughtful, and leaves the reader with good stuff to chew over, like the most classic of classic sci-fi.
Two main characters with weird names, Perets and Candid, are fascinated by the Forest. The Forest is drawing them like a magnet, they are desperately trying to reach it and reveal it's secrets. What makes their desire for change so strong? Maybe their failed attempts to find common sense in people around them and willingness to see life from another angle.The plot partly reminds "The Castle" by Franz Kafka: as well as K., Perets faces bureaucracy and absurdity all around, which he attempts, without any success, to defeat.
Една изключително абсурдна научна фантастика - такава не бях чела.
Първият ми сблъсък с Братя Стругацки със сигурност няма да е последен.
Не мога да си представя какво е било за авторите да живеят в Съветския съюз, но това е бил техният бунт.
Започнах книгата без конкретна настройка - не знаех за какво се разказва, не бях чела нито едно ревю.
Има върху какво да се разсъждава, а това е важно.
Бях в главите на героите и се радвам, че първият ми опит с Братя Стругацки беше успешен.
Konfuzno, apsurdno i vrlo teško za pratiti. Iako su alegorije (o birokraciji, o komunizmu, o suprotstavljenim stranama prirode i ljudi) relativno jasne, kompletan dojam je pokvaren izostankom objašnjenja, apsurdom i onirističkim dijelovima radi kojih je roman praktički nemoguće uhvatiti ni za glavu ni za rep.
I think I need to read this one again sometime when B. Calling's series isn't so fresh in my mind. The superficial similarities between that and this has me constantly trying to superimpose the Vorrh onto this Forest, which totally didn't work. My rating will likely increase...
