https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59843.The_Ring
Lovely read! delightful mystery..interesting storyline also...(paperback!)
This was the last bookm I read. It was historical, sad, interesting and touching. The things Ariana went through, she is tough. U learn a lot by the way. I love World War II stories especially from German. It tells the tells of what people went through to be great today. From Kassandra and Walmar, to Ariana, Manfred, Ariana reaching the states, meeting the Leibmans, being mistreated and surviving, her Noel and Tamara. U just put yourself in her shoes and u see that for to fit, u need to be strong. One learns a lot
This was recommended by a work colleague back in 1982 and turned me off to Danielle Steele novels ever since.
Wonderful read! interesting and engaging storyline.. (paperback!)

I didn't think I would enjoy this book as I am not so keen on books set in the 2nd world war. I was incredibly pleasantly surprised. Very enjoyable.
I've received many DS books as gifts over the years but this is the first one I've tried to read. I struggled manfully. A google search will render many articles on why DS books are rubbish so I won't go into it too much but, essentially, I found the characters vapid and unsympathetic. There was only one who held some interest and when he was killed off I didn't feel compelled to continue.
I had read this off my grandmother's shelf when I was in high school, and I fell in love with the story.
I definitely look at the book a little bit differently now, almost 20 years later.
I've read A LOT more WWII fiction, but this is probably one of the books that made me fall in love with the historical genre to begin with.
The books is relatively short, especially considering it spans over 40 years, but with each character and each generation I feel like they are fully fleshed out and we knew each one personally.
I used to read this author's books many years ago.
last year I was given 3 boxes full of her books which I have been slowly working my way through!
I find its very easy to recognise a Danielle steel book and I have to say she always delivers.
I thought I had read this book years ago but once I started the book I obviously had forgotten the storyline as it was all new to me.
I enjoyed the storyline and it was very easy it to read.
the outcome way before the end of the Book.recommended!
The Ring, Danielle Steelعنوان: انگشتر؛ نویسنده: دانیل استیل؛ مترجم: فریده تیموری؛ تهران، کوشش، 1372، در 543 ص؛ انتشارات رفعت در سال 1376 و سمیر در 1382 نیز از همین مترجم کتاب را منتشر کرده اند
Una historia conmovedora, o es mejor decir dos historias conmovedoras, la de Kasandra y la de Ariana, una trama que atrapa, que emociona y que lo lleva al suspenso. Me encantó, tanto, que empiezo a extrañarlo.
libro tan fascinante como dramático.
me ha gustado porque tiene un trasfondo histórico muy interesante, se ambienta durante la época en la que inicia la segunda guerra mundial en Alemania, dividida en dos arcos interesantes: por un lado tenemos en la primera parte la historia de cassandra, su matrimonio con Walmar y...
el libro termina hasta la décadad de entre los 80 y 90.
Ariana tiene que sufrir los estragos de este terrible momento mientras buscan una manera de escapar y sobrevivir.
es completamente recomendable, nunca antes había visto una novela contemporánea romántica como sólo danielle Steel sabe hacerlo.
This was the first Danielle Steel book I ever read and changed my reading habits forever. This book is very moving and heart-breaking whilst also showing you that being strong isn't always easy. Could not put this book down
this novel very good
Read it years ago, and i remember weeping my heart out ! Steel does that to you.. her universality lies in writing about issues which are humanistic and real.
Steel does it again! Set in 1940s occupied Germany, Steel weaves a story around a signet diamond ring. Given to Kassandra Von Gotthard by her mother, it falls into the hands of her daughter Ariana just as the war in Berlin goes into its final days. From there, the ring travels with Ariana on her journey to escape the horror after the fall of Berlin. Spanning three generation Steel weaves a moving tale of opulence and poverty, innocence and loss, love and sorrow. definately one of Steel's better books
1:32 a.m. Only 5 days with this book.... what a magnificent story!! Honestly, I have never read a book like this one before, I always read YA books, but this book is completely different from YA... I honestly, truly, could not put this book down. My eyes were literally glued to it. It's tragic, yet, so beautiful. I'm in awe.
This book is full of sorrows! I wanted to quit reading it after Book 1. However, I kept reading in hopes it would get better. Unfortunately, there were a lot of unanswered endings throughout. Not my cup of tea. One of my least favorite D.S. books.
I read this when it first came out in 1980 (incidentally the year I met the man I would marry) and it still has the same impact today. I have continued reading her books through the decades, and still find her stories to be as engaging as ever.
Excellent book, excellent story! I loved it from the beginning to the end. (Except the storyline where Ariana arrived in the US. But I don't wish to discuss about it right now.) I cried so hard for the von Gotthard family and their lost lives. I want more stories like this book to read. :)
This book was recommended to me by my mom. This book was good and it was a lot lighter than what I read in WWII Historical Fiction. This was the only Danielle Steele book I have read in full and enjoyed it! I can see why she is a great writer.
Amazing The history has always been important to me. What people went through during war times was incredible. I love Danielle Steele
Classic DS at her best!Wonderful character development. Excellent use of historical references. Plus all of the traits Danielle Steel fans love -- romance and suspense.
4 stars, this made a big impression on 13 year old me.
This was my first Danielle Steel book and although I don't read her books anymore (they became formulaic), this one is still a favorite and I still own this paperback, 30+ years after I read it.
One of my favorites. Read this back in 1987, twice during a trip to Austria with my husband and daughter.
The first Danielle Steele book I read as a teen. I loved this book and have never forgotten it.
A great read! One of her best books and a haunting read!
It was good but while i was reading girl in blue coat, i felt jews pains waaaay better than this book.anyway i guess these books are really good to read and feel
I remember finishing this in 4 hours but I don't remember what it was about
