https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31580.In_Search_of_Duende
Τι είναι το ντουέντε; Δεν είναι η μούσα που επικαλούνταν οι αρχαίοι δραματουργοί και όλοι οι καλλιτέχνες…Δεν είναι ο άγγελος που κρύβεται μέσα σε όλες τις δημιουργίες…Είναι η ένωση της τέχνης με το μονοπάτι του θανάτου, είναι το τραγούδι που βγαίνει σαν σιντριβάνι αίματος μέσα από τους τραγουδιστές του φλαμένκο την ώρα που οι συχνότητες τους συντονίζονται με αυτές των χορδών της κιθάρας…Το ντουέντε του δημιουργού περνάει στον εκτελεστή.
Είναι Ανδαλουσιανός και αντιλαμβάνεται όπως κανένας άλλος την ένωση της τέχνης με τον θάνατο.
This collection of public speeches and essays speaks to an aspect of Spanish art (indeed, all art) which is both the motivation for and expression of a primal oneness with one’s art—best witnessed in music and/or dance, poetry, and bullfighting.
GL saw the duende, that force or supreme expression, as a dying, regional characteristic of Spanish art, particularly Andalusian art.
GL treats the duende with a religious respect, citing numerous historical composers, dancers, singers, and eventually poets and bullfighters who embodied the force before succumbing to it, as one must.
Lisbon Book-Fair 2016.
Reading the beautifully clear essays in this book gave me a better understanding of what Lorca was aiming to achieve in his poetry; moreover, the three poems at the end of this collection are true masterpieces that demonstrate exactly how mystery, in the hands of a talented poet, can be an asset rather than a liability to a poem.
It's all about the essay "Play and Theory of the Duende," which you can probably find in any collection of his writings. The "duende": that dark power, impossible to articulate, that the greatest performers hold. And also: the inner devil an artist wrestles with to create. Angels are too removed, muses too fickle. It's the duende who leads you to your work. (This book also contains some of Lorca's poetry and other essays/lectures on Spanish art and artists.)
A must read for all artist of all type. Dig deep down into your bowels, be courageous and honest even if you feel exposed.
With idea, sound, or gesture, the duende enjoys fighting the creator on the very rim of the well." Lorca talks about the differences between the muse, the angel, and the duende, with regard to certain types of creative expression: poetry spoken out loud, a primitive dance with ancient roots performed by spanish gypsy's and music, called "deep song." He says there are at least four elements that can be isolated in duende: "irrationality, earthiness, a heightened awareness of death, and a dash of the diabolical.
The duende is a demonic earth spirit who helps the artist see the limitations of intelligence ..." Through lectures and poetry Lorca conveys this intense and deeply emotional place that few artists reach.
Leí esto, como todo lo de García Lorca, en español, pero no tienen el título ni la fotito del libro cDm. And it's García Lorca, not just "Lorca", btw.
Lovely to read in Seville, the day after a fantastic flamenco performance, with lots of things I underlined. But also a bit like a boy you dated in college, and holy Orientalism! Makes me want to read more/more about Lorca, though.
XVII) (cita).* Balada "Si tú eres mi linda amiga...", anónima (España, ?) (cita).* Poema "Dentro del vergel...", anónimo (España, ?) (cita).* Cántico espiritual de Juan de la Cruz (España, 1578) (cita).* Mención al episodio del mono parlante en Don Quijote de la Mancha de Miguel de Cervantes (España, 1615).* Mención al demonio o genio maligno de Descartes postulado en sus Meditaciones metafísicas (Francia, 1641).* Mención a Gerión, el gigante monstruoso de tres cuerpos de la mitología griega, a quien Heracles robó y mató como parte de sus doce trabajos, cuya primera mención de que se tiene registro está en la Gerioneida de Estesícoro (Grecia, s.
in search of duende is a slim collection of expository essays in which garcía lorca considers the inspiring force of the duende, and its effects upon three differing art forms.
"deep song" and "play and theory of the duende" are the highlights of this work.
interspersed throughout are some of garcía lorca's poems, including the stunning "lament for ignacio sánchez mejías." though less than 100 pages, in search of duende is a powerful and sweeping insight into the roots of artistic creation.the duende, then, is a power, not a work.
it is a struggle, not a thought.
Lorca's take on duende is endlessly fascinating, which is great because his take is the only take I've taken--other than some blog-browsing that I vaguely remember. I'm pretty much going to pass out from all there is to mull over in this little number. I really love the idea of having a concept to position between the muse and the angel. Both seem so Spicerian (in the superficial way), but probably this third is what's really at the core of Jack's oeuvre, especially considering his relationship to Freddy.
Not really what I was expecting from this book. The poems were all excellent, I can definitely say that. But the prose pieces were hit-and-miss. I understand why this was important to Lorca and his aesthetics, but I can only read so much about gypsy folk songs. The bullfighting pieces were more up my alley. Honestly, this is the first book I've ever read from New Directions that didn't meet or exceed my expectations. The poetry is highly recommended.
Trough the metaphore of Spain and the figures of the angel, the muse and the duende, Lorca tries to analyse what in his opinion makes the diference between a good art piece and and this specific and magical moment when creation can simply shake your body and soul. If you see this text as something more then just the first plain level of reading, it becomes real poetry. Duende is what I tried to get to all these years without being able to name it properly.
Its been years since I discovered and this book on the shelves of the DePaul Library and devoured it and tucked it into my soul as a raison d'arte, young and silly as I was. But duende is a term we all should be familiar with in art...I was reminded of my experience of this book by a recent article about Nick Cave in the Guardian. I need to read this little tract again.
If you’re in search of this mysterious “it factor” called duende, don’t expect to figure out where to find it from Lorca. He’ll gladly tell you all about this magical quality that every artist longs for that he’s lucky enough to possess, but he’ll never tell you where to find it. If you don’t have duende, well, too bad, so sad for you.
A bit more of a cri de coeur than a pedantic poetic apologia (Tom Eliot, looking discreetly in your direction, gub'na!) which is a-ok by me, especially when one is searching for what you call 'the dark root of the scream'...
The essay "Play and Theory of the Duende" in this book is one of the more important pieces on creativity that I've ever read. It's got the juice that's so often missing from conversations about "process" and it effortlessly combines the arts of dance and writing in a way I thought I was crazy for.
i wish that duende would appear in these book reviews of mine!
I will never be done reading this book.
this book brings together theory, lectures and poems about duende - but in a way that feels like real life. a must read for a poet. you'll be looking for Duende under every rock. Where is it?
Essays on deep song, duende, and Lorca's poetry interpreted by the likes of WS Merwin and Langston Hughes. Excellent and thought provoking. And really, really good poetry.
beautiful
darn good pocket-edition
lovely...
Lovely, lovely prose. "The duende does not repeat himself, anymore than do the forms of the sea during a squall..." etc. etc.It's always nice to hear from the perspective of a genius.
Really interesting weave of mystical essays and poetry. The tiny book felt like a search and, in the end, lands upon some kind of conclusion. A lot to learn from.
todas las mañanas voya preguntarle al romero si el mal de amor tiene curaporque yo estoy muriendo
not really what i expected. i thought it would be more surreal and inspirational.
(view spoiler)[ ***Мануел Торес, големият андалуски художник, веднъж каза на един певец: „Вие имате глас, имате и стил, но никога няма да успеете, защото ви липсва дуенде.”***А Мануел Торес, човекът, който носеше в кръвта си повeче култура от всички, които съм срещал, слушайки де Файя да свири своето собствено Ноктюрно дел Хенералифе”, направи следната блестяща забележка: „Всичко, в което има тъмни звуци, има и дуенде.” И наистина нищо не е по-вярно от това.***И така, дуендето е сила, а не поведение, то е борба, а не понятие.
