https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112895.Inspector_Imanishi_Investigates
A Japanese crime fiction with a lot of locations for setting.
Reading this novel made me want to imagine the sceneries.
But the mystery is good, and I believe in 1960s the plot twist would be unimaginable.Imanishi and other characters were written as round characters, and that made this novel more enjoyable than as crime fictions.
I highly recommend it for how the novel picturing the Japanese culture and social life of 1960s.
Even the Japanese culture in police force is apparent if you compared it with USA or UK police force fictions.
Well, I was nudged out of that happy place by several: a murder victim happened to live round the corner from our hero, and then another victim happened to have moved into his sister's apartment; a key clue happened to be written on a scrap of paper discovered a few days later on a street by a bus stop, then our hero happened to read a fictional story in the paper which happened to be about one of the murder victims.
C'mon...Download my starter library for free here - http://eepurl.com/bFkt0X - and receive my monthly newsletter with book recommendations galore for the Japanophile, crime-fiction-loving English teacher in all of us.
Would the police be able to catch up with the murderer before the witnesses were all silent?The Castle of Sand is not one of those Godlike Detective v.s Superman Murderer 'game of wit' mystery novels (although I enjoy game of wit mystery novels just as fine), the mystery part of this novel is decent enough but there are not many fancy twists and turns; still the author, Seicho Matsumoto masterfully breathed life into his characters (especially Inspector Imanishi and his peers) and he also drew a fine picture of the 1960s Japanese society, which enable us to understand why the murder would take place and also to understand the complicated reasons of why a good-natured man would end up being brutally killed.I am impressed by how Mr. Matsumoto wrote the two police officers and described how they interacted with their families and coworkers.
Excellent, smart, intricately constructed, seamlessly translated, police procedural, by the dean of postwar Japanese mystery writers.
If given a chance to give a star rating at the 1/2 way point, I would be hard pressed to mount a 3.
It was especially good in approximation of the details to how all the history had gone down, and also sublime to the mood of Imanishi as he finally turned the corner to some correct answers after all the months and months of inquiry and travel.
And he is always moving to NE or W Japan for inquiries and then yet AGAIN, comes three or 6 more locations all starting with the letter K and four more individuals' names all starting with the letter T.
Inspector Imanishi Investigates?
in order to investigate.
He spends his wife's savings on investigating.
It reminds me of a scene from the best TV comedy ever written, 'Spaced':"Come up with any exciting literary characters lately?""Yeah, actually, yes.
'Dizzy Steinway'.""I like it.
I like it!
What is she, some sort of crimebusting jazz singer?""No, actually it's the name I'm using to sign on.""Mr Sekjigawa Shigeo will leave for Paris on an Air France flight on December 25th ..." I was at departures in Narita on 25th December one year!
The Air France flight to Paris was called and almost everyone boarded.
The original title of this novel should be 'The Vessel of Sand', I didn't know that it was renamed 'Inspector Imanishi Investigates' when the book was translated into English.Updated@02/01/2017:The English version of this story is much difficult to read because the text contents so many names for locations, towns and train lines. But I'm still deeply impressed by how Mr. Matsumoto managed to capture the outlook of the Japanese society in the 1960s and the details of these characters' lives.
„Пясъчният замък“ (Суна но утсува) – оригиналното заглавие, подхождащо много повече на романа от комерсиалния превод „Инспектор Иманаши разследва“ – е смятан за един от върховете в писателската му кариера.Пълнокръвните герои от различни възрасти и социални прослойки и многообразните локации в които се развива действието (от Окаяма на запад, до Акита на североизток и от модерно Токио, до затънтен будистки храм в планината Иса) почти успяват да изкарат романа от жанровата и да го вкарат във високата литература.
Инспекторът с бавни и методични действия, напомнящи много повече разследване на частен детектив, от колкото на полицейски инспектор, и в продължение на месеци успява да го разплете, ловейки нишки буквално от въздуха и самофинансирайки действията си(нали казах за парите на жена му, направо героиня).
I'm not sure this Inspector Imanishi has a series, or if many books are translated, but I wish I could read more.
I especially enjoy the insight of Imanishi's relationship with his wife and his sister, the little rituals of his eating, his smoking on his stomach, his going to the public baths.
Etc. I think this is one two main reasons why I read any mystery series, to be invited to how a character thinks- his/ her logic and mental process when encountering a puzzle (the mystery) and the day to day habits that build up a character.
There are many little Japanese characteristics revealed, I found it fascinating.
I liked Inspector Imanishi very much. He is a hardworking, self-giving and family-loving commoner police detective, who persists to tackle a difficult murder case everybody else has given up to solve. He is a kind of a guy people want to exist and work for the community's peace and order. The 1960s was Japan's good old time, and it is seen and felt fully in this good natured book. The capture at the airport was meaningful, and should be like this. The emerging young people in the cultural vanguard group weren't so important to the establishments.
Inspector Imanishi leaves his beloved bonsai and his haiku and goes off by train with his young colleague, Yoshimura, to investigate—and runs up against a blank wall.
What can a group of avant garde young artists, architects, critics, composers, etc possibly have to do with the murder of a quiet and ‘saintly’ provincial old ex-policemen?
Besides the fact that it’s an excellent police procedural, the other thing I really liked about Inspector Imanishi Investigates was the insight into the Japan of the 50s: an interesting combination of modern and old, of east and west.
This was written in 1961.
Plotwise, it's very complicated and tightly-woven, replete with subtle clues and red herrings.
But stylistically, it's plodding.
Probably due to the translation, the writing is choppy and repetitive.
And perhaps because of the culture, perhaps because of the period, the process of investigation is laughable at times.
In short, some of the investigating is carried out as if a mentally challenged and exceptionally naive five-year-old is at the helm.
But overall, it comes through with an intricate murder scheme and some subtle police work.
And it's also intriguing as a diary of Japanese thought and cultural activity of the time.
Inspector Imanishi Investigates is a serious crime novel which starts out with a murdered victim discovered under the tracks of a train in a station.
The victim has not been killed by the train; his face was bashed in and he was strangled.
The only clues the police have are that he spoke with a northern dialect, and the word "Kameda" was overheard in a conversation between the murderer and his victim in a bar.
So from these two clues as a starting point, Inspector Imanishi of Tokyo must track down a killer.
This is the task of the Inspector.I absolutely loved this story.
Old fashioned police procedural with a side of sushi. This is one of Soho Press's fine series of international crime fiction. "Inspector Imaninishi" was published in Japan in the late 50's and has a nifty post-war noirish sensibility. The protagonist is an aging police detective who writes haiku for relaxation. The plot is engaging and Matsumoto is more gifted at portraying relationships and character than many of his better known contemporaries. Plenty of red herrings and and blind alleys to contend with, so the wrap up is actually suspenseful.
This book was picked up because I didn't have a book to read and it ended up sucking me in completely. From the depth of the characters, the twists and turns of the plot, and the stunning descriptions of Japanese landscapes and culture made this book a joy to read. Intriguing to the last, if you like noir type murder mysteries with a fantastic cast of characters, then READ IT. It opened my eyes to Japanese crime novels and I fear I may be hooked.
A carefully-plotted mystery, one solitary and thoughtful male detective (makes me think of a more melancholy Martin Beck), and detailed descriptions of the contradictions of postwar Japanese society ... turns out when these things are combined, it makes for a very interesting book. A slow-moving mystery that takes its time to build up the case.
Also the expressions the characters use while talking about themselves seem very Japanese.With the introduction of the nouveau group, the gaps became more noticeable.
In that respect, it's a lot like a Conan Doyle or an Agatha Christie thriller; amazingly out there plotting with a solution you'd never see coming.
Unlike Christie or Conan Doyle, Matsumoto balances this surrealism with a realism that is amazingly detailed and believable.
Some of the Japanese expressions used, the ones that make the book seem so authentic to me, sound really odd when put into English.
Rather than provide any form of dating for the book, it simply placed it formally in another culture - a culture considerably different from ours.
Movement around the country is done by train, some inquiries are hampered by the destruction of records at the end of the Second World War. Sure there are some technological aspects - maybe these were glimpses forward to the technological giant that Japan has since become - but in some ways the mystery, while central to the plot, was less interesting than the characterisations, the Inspector, the food (I was consistently craving food throughout this book) and the tremendous sense of place.
This is a well-written, interesting, and truly puzzling police procedural that reminds me of the early Dragnet, but set in early 1960s Japan.
The body of an older man is found on railroad tracks.
The only clues are from a cheap bar where the victim and a mysterious younger man were seen.
The victim spoke with an accent from northeastern Japan, and made the comment, "Kameda must the same even now." Who or what is Kameda?
Is there a link between Nouveau and the murder of the man found on the railroad tracks?
I was thinking of "The Tattoo Murder Case" by Akimitsu Takagi, which was published in 1948.
To be a good translator of novels requires not just an expert mastery of the languages and cultures but also that the translator is both a writer and an artist in their own right.
This book, while structurally fairly sound as a police procedural novel, suffers under the weight of awkward writing due to the translation.
From the first page where the trains brakeman uses an interesting local colloquialism but couched in an awkward and unnatural sentence.If you can look past the language the book is enjoyable enough and does offer some glimpses into the Japan of that time.
08/26/05 #151TITLE/AUTHOR: INSPECTOR IMANISHI INVESTIGATES by Seicho MatsumotoRATING: 4.5/B+GENRE/PUB DATE/# OF PGS: Mystery, 1961, 313TIME/PLACE: 1950's TokyoCHARACTERS: Inspector ImanishiCOMMENTS: Very good police procedural. A disfigured bodyis found in the railyard. Inspector Imanishi has to discover who the victim is as well as the murderer. When the victim is identified as a retired policeman and one who everyone loved, the case becomes very important and many off-hours and personal travel time is spent on the investigation. This murder seems to have connections to a series of deaths in the nouveau group -- an up & coming group of artists, musicians, writers.
Written in the 1960's.
Seicho Matsumoto does a fine job conveying Inspector Imanishi's systematic murder investigation within the rigid social structure of post war Japan.
Japan is a country where any stranger is an oddity, detectives investigate in their free time out of duty, wives shine the shoes of their men before sending them off to work, families bathe in public baths, darker skin is seen as low class and where family history is everything.
One criticism, two suspects live conveniently and unbelievably close to the inspector for no reason other than plotting.
Starts slow but it became a decent page turner.
This is an enjoyable mystery authentically set in 1960's Japan. The plotting is intricate and the reader is drawn into the chase along with the diligent Inspector. The Inspector painstakingly pieces the story together through many trips to different locales in Japan, as he tightens the web gradually to trap the murderer. Must have been even more enjoyable in the original language but the translated version is great in itself!
This was a lot of fun to read because of the locations and the apologetic and humble Japanese way of speaking. Being able to speak Japanese made this an especially enjoyable book for me for nostalgic purposes. The story was also refreshing and not very linear .. overall, very good.
This is one of the bargain mystery novels I acquired from the symphony book sale this year.
Japan was still recovering from WWII and transitioning from traditional Japanese culture to a younger more avant-garde generation influenced by Western ideas.
Deeply sad story since there are several senseless murders but everything is not black & white.
This book was made into a movie called Castle in the Sand.
Worthwhile for experiencing the Japanese Society’s transition.
A very nice read. I appreciate the cool, sober and matter-of-fact narration, and yet have the intensity of a crime novel.
An avant garde art group consisting of a painter, a dramatist, an architect, a composer and a critic weaves into and out of the story in the beginning, and we get tantalizing snippets of various characters and sub narratives.
Again, a quiet, but portentious interlude from the main story, but giving depth and color to it.In the end, there is a quickening of the narrative, perhaps a little too quick, focusing on one of the avant garde group's members, but I finished the book feeling it was oddly successful in its conveying a visceral sense of Japanese culture/aesthetics, the attention to detail, the quietness, the persistence.
Along the twisting and turning path taken by the story as it unfolds, we get an introduction to the dispersal of Japanese regional dialects on Honshu, a glimpse of the Cold War paranoia that assigned the possibility of all sorts of nefarious purposes to emerging technology, a picture of the dichotomy between rural and urban standards of living in post-war Japan, and a snapshot of the still-patriarchal, still formally traditional society of the early "economic miracle" period.
I read this to get a different perspective and some insight into Japanese life. There were bits here and there that were useful in that regard. Some of the details of the Inspector's persistence were interesting but a lot of this was tedious detailed information about train schedules. Inspector Imanishi Investigates was clearly a mixed bag.
This novel is unlike any other detective novel I have ever read.
Instead of unnecessary and unrealistic action sequences there are added details about the lives of the people involved in the case and the fascinating artistic set that they belong to.
The details of life in Japan at that time are also interesting.
This was a great vacation read in that it leads you on the kind of trip you'd actually enjoy: exploring another country and observing its culture at a leisurely pace.
I'd recommend it to anyone interested in 1960s Japanese culture or a different take on police procedurals.
Inspector Imanishi Investigates by Seicho Matsumoto.
