https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1123897.All_These_Things_Shall_Give_Thee_Experience
He shares so many important insights about God, the importance and reason for suffering and trials, the importance of service, love, communication, honesty, correction, prayer, following our leaders and basically becoming a true disciple of Christ.
Elder Maxwell teaches so clearly how we must know who God is - He is omniscient, omnipotent and omni-loving.
There are so many wonderful and important reminders in these pages.
29)!""In keeping the second great commandment, the most significant and basic service we can regularly render unto others will emerge from our most basic roles--as brothers and sisters, as parents, as neighbors, as disciples.
I feel it's a tender mercy that I was able to download a free copy of this book right as I was going through a miscarriage.
I opened it up to read to distract myself as it was all going down, and there could not have been anything more comforting and grounding.
The first part of it is all about how God is omniscient, how everything is known to him, and how he makes everything work together for our good.
It is profound, and definitely one to ponder, mark up, and read again.As with anything by Elder Neal A.
In this insightful and beautifully written book, Neal A.
Maxwell (served as an apostle in the LDS church) shares his thoughts on the omniscience of God, His love for us, prayer, service and many other gospel principles.
I loved it.
My favorite quote (though I think I could fill up every wall of my house with fabulous quotes from this book)..."Prayer is a marvelous process that pierces the veil, and, therefore, requires much faith and persistence on our part; this is so precisely because prayer is that point where the agency of man meets the omniscience of God...where time melts as it touches eternity."
We don't hesitate to feed someone when they are hungry or clothe them when they are naked, but Elder Maxwell makes the point that more often than not, what people really need is simply to feel that they belong.
He states "So often what people need so much is to be sheltered from the storms of life in the sanctuary of belonging." Thinking back on my own life, I can remember people bringing me food or giving me blessings at different times, but the people who helped me and strengthened me the most, are the ones who made me feel like I belonged.
Full of amazing and beautiful insights about the pressing issues of our time.
This book is not about societal issues, however.
It's about personal righteousness and discipleship.
Elder Maxwell's insights about the veil, sustaining the General Authorities, prayer, and trials are wise and timeless.
Elder Maxwell had a unique and rare intelligence that informed his thoughts on discipleship.Listening to this as an audiobook was an added bonus; hearing these inspired words in his calming and thoughtful voice makes them resonate more.
He's been gone for thirteen years now, but much of what he said is even more is even more relevant today than when he wrote these things.
Maxwell, as always, has a rapid-fire delivery and salts his works well with quotations. Working through the linguistic style of delivery was sometimes show, but the experience and thoughts provoked were worth the effort.
“It has only been in recent times, since people started saying they loved all mankind, that neighbors have suffered so much neglect.
“In keeping the second great commandment, the most significant and basic service we can regularly render unto others will emerge from our most basic roles – as brothers and sisters, as parents, as neighbors, as disciples.”
“Yet keeping the second commandment – to love our neighbor as ourselves – requires, more than we know, the development of healthy self-regard.
“When we come to be genuinely concerned with pleasing God—more than with pleasing any in the world, even ourselves—then our behavior improves and His blessings can engulf us.” — All These Things Shall Give Thee Experience
(I loved the 9 important rules of giving and receiving such weighty communications)2.
"If your lips can keep from slips, 5 things observe with care: To whom you speak, of whom you speak, and how and when and where." William Edward Norris3.We must learn to follow the brethren in the small things so we can follow them in the large things.
Sometimes however the little things are the big things.4.Every form of control except self control seems to be increasing and yet obedience rests on self control.And the 6 typical things that get in the way of following the brethren.
Elder Maxwell's words were incredibly important to me while he was still with us, and it finally dawned on me a few months ago to start reading his written contributions.The other day, I had a conversation with my father-in-law about books that you never finish despite having read them many times. The ideas are so complex, the insights too profound to be understood in a tight little package. This is one of those books--a prime synthesis of key aspects of discipleship as understood by Mormon theology.
Maxwell offers deep gems for Christian audiences on each page, and I savor it best with little bites at a time.I read this insightful book thoughtfully over the course of many months.
I love the perspective he offers about life, God, and His plans for us.
It's a broad look at the eternal scheme of things and how our experiences during mortality affect us.
I like this quote on the last page: "...when we are safely beyond the narrowness of this mortal passage, we will come upon a scene of such expansiveness that solar systems will seem like backyards and galaxies like neighborhoods!"
This was the abridged book, read by the author. I love listening to Elder Maxwell! This book had a lot of insights into our eternal lives beyond day-to-day happenings. It helps in dealing with challenges. I plan to listen to it multiple times.
This gave me LOTS to think about with a new perspective. I had to listen to the same parts over and over again to let some things sink in. Maxwell uses words like "Parenthetically" which make me feel smarter just by listening to it!
Loved the chapter on the omniscience of God. Listened to the audiobook and would love to now purchase a hard copy to study and reflect more deeply.
He really is an artist with words!I enjoyed this abridged audiobook.
I would have liked better chapter titles that described in a few words the content of the chapter.
On the audio book all chapter headings were just the title of the book.
Because of this it’s almost impossible to remember where you were in the book that you heard something you want to remember or refer back to again.
If the chapter headings would have been there it may have helped the book flow better.
Because of that I give the book at 3.5.
What a wonderful book!
There were so many little nuggets that I want to remember.
I felt like I was highlighting something on almost every page.
Beautifully written and so many things to ponder on.
One of my favorite quotes in the chapter on prayer;”We sometimes find ourselves praying for others when we should be doing things for them.
Prayers are not to be a substitute for service, but a spur thereto.” One more from the same chapter “The task is to draw close enough to the Lord That we progress to the point where we petition Him according to His will, not ours.”
This is a book that I come back to again and again.
It may be my 5th or 6th reading of it.
This time through I read a chapter and then spent several days thinking and reflecting on what I had read.
Asking and answering my own questions in regards to the topic at hand.
(Yes, talking to myself already!) I first read this book in 1979, and as my understanding has grown, and my life evolved, the words written have only come to mean more to me as I try and find purpose and understanding in the challenges of life.
"Indeed, while God's great plan of redemption was made feasible by His omniscience and His omnipotence, it was made inevitable because of His perfect love for us!"- Neal A. Maxwell, All These Things Shall Give Thee ExperienceThis book was published almost 40 years ago but the "hard doctrines" covered by Elder Maxwell are still relevant today, especially today.
I feel like this book is an inspiring read for a lifelong member of the Latter-Day Saint Church. It's full of great quotes and encouragement to expand our mind and service. It does make me wonder what his later books on discipleship contain because this so fully explored what a consecrated life looks like.
So many gems in this book! I’m floored by the foresight and prophetic vision of the latter-days and how much has changed in the few short years since Elder Maxwell’s passing. I’ve received answers to my prayers and questions and will be reading it again soon!
Wonderful insights into a broad array of gospel topics, as noted by others it sometimes lacks a sense of internal continuity and really feels like more of a collection of essays than a cohesive whole. Definitely worth reading if you are a fan of Maxwell or LDS doctrine.
I read this book at the perfect time. It reminded me of some important things and helped me greater learn why we struggle and how our experiences shape our discipleship. I learned more about God’s omniscience and omnilovingness.
This was purely an accident. I was looking for a book that talked about grief (as cited in another text) and picked this up thinking it was the one that contained that quote. It did not, but it contained many other gems... such as the chapter on correction and prophetic counsel.
This was my first real doctrinal experience with Neal A. Maxwell since I was pretty young when he was alive. This is both doctrinally intricate and completely accessible. It's a comforting and well paced book that is perfect for anyone because it is about something we all experience.
This was okay. I've always really liked Neal A. Maxwell's thoughts, upon review, I think I might prefer them when focused on Jesus Christ rather than other topics. I just didn't love it.
So profound, so many interesting ideas. Want to buy so I can highlight parts!
Such a deep and inspiring book by someone who knows what suffering is and understands what it means to be a Christian. One read was not enough to understand the wisdom in the pages of this book.
Wow. This is not just another church book. It far exceeded expectations and I can't wait to read it again.
He was a man like no other. That goes for whether you're religious or not. You get a good sense of his wisdom in these writings.
Neal A. Maxwell's language is poetic and beautiful. Discussing hard doctrine in that way is calming to the soul.
