https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/395534.A_Daughter_of_the_Samurai
She navigates Japanese and American cultures with sympathy and affection for both.She in some ways seems unaware of her own privilege, for example in both countries she seems to take servants for granted (that was the time I realise), there is a gentle sort of feminist leaning in the book.
At times we are tantalised with details that are not properly explained but mostly the book shines with a casual sort of intimacy, an unpretentious clarity and the ability to find the exceptional in family interactions.It helps me both understand and to some degree criticise the whiteness of other novels which attempt to portray samurais.
There had been political agitation for years, in which the world of Japan was divided into two factions—those who believed that the imperial power should include both sacred and secular duties, and those who believed the shogun, as military ruler, should take all national burdens from the shoulders of the sacred Emperor.”—page 88Etsu Sugimoto’s memoir, A DAUGHTER OF THE SAMURAI, first published in 1925, offers an up close and personal look at daily life in Meiji Era Japan—especially of those born into the former Samurai class.
I had to Google Mrs. Sugimoto, and read some of her background, to try to figure out just what years (approx.
I have read this book in Japanese　after death of grandmother and mother.I remembered the old happy days and their discipline and behave.I did not know the writer at that time. I choose the topic about this book for my thesis.Her book , A Daughter of the Samurai, was translated in many languages.I am good at Japanese onlyIf you can read other language , please give me your message.Thank you.http://vddb.library.lt/fedora/get/LT-...
I loved this book for the taste of life in another era, of a different class of people, in another country. Very well written and, for the most part, clear. I was sometimes confused as to who the author referred to towards the end when talking to her daughters about her ancestors. Still, I can't wait to share this with my nieces.
A beautiful, endearing story that captures the mistique of remote areas of Japan and the turmoil of the end of feudalism. The tale of Sugimoto-san is the tale of Japan as it approaches the end of an era and is confronted with the western world as it enters the XXth century.
It is a really lovely book.
I would like to know about the circumstances surrounding the death of her husband, and I'd like to read more about her children's integration into Japanese culture and reintegration into American culture.I understand some of the criticisms leveled at the book – particularly the accusation of classism – but overall this strikes me as such a kind and careful book, so much about learning and growing and understanding, that I'm inclined to forgive her, especially since her treatment of everyone, class aside, seems to come from such a place of real love.
It is the story of (minor spoiler alert) the life of a woman raised in a samurai family in Japan, and the profound insights that she has from daily events as she travels to the United States and back to her homeland.
Second, it is written in a style that I can only recall in one other book - The Last Fine Time by Verlyn Klinkenborg - that has a cadence that carried me like a gentle poem.
It's a book that slowed my pulse and focused me on every event, almost like a meditation on each vignette that was described by the author.
It recalls the life of Etsu who grew up with the old customs in a small town in the mountains.
She joins him there, is married and raises a family.The old customs of Japan make the gist of the story...the ways to dress, the keeping of history, the celebrations, the respect for the "Grandmother".
There are so many more.Etsu instilled the love of her country in her daughters.
Upon moving back, they learned and learned more about the culture.Anyone who is planning to read a novel centered in Japan or has read one should read this account.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book. A wonderful way to learn about japan. Originally published in 1926, it was then republished in 1966. In the introduction, it says "What a lovely book it is, and how much it has to teach us. I have a secret notion that it will go on for years and years, making friends for itself and for the brave woman who wrote it." I couldn't have said it better myself!
A little slow at times, but many memoirs can be that way. This was a fascinating glimpse into a time of immense change, and I loved being invited into Etsu-bo's internal world. She had a lot of great little insights that are good to consider for anyone.
This book was beautiful and insightful. I loved learning more about Japanese culture and seeing American culture through a different point of view.
a slightly smarmy posh girl goes off on the mores, customs, culture, and world-view of the sword-bearing feudal class of old Japan.
tellingly put out by an academic publisher in the UK, the work is at most didactic reaffirmation of old-fashioned values of duty and honor, but suffers from the same narrow-viewpoints of social conservatives.
Sugimoto apparently doesn't have a revolutionary bone in her body, but although there are moments of charm, on the whole the work is forgettable.
but otherwise, of little outside interest or staying power.Sugimoto was apparently a figure of local/regional repute, but compared against the entirety of world literature, she falls a little short.
I found this book absolutely fascinating and highly informative.
Through the well chosen words of the author who was born into it, I got a glimpse of life and traditions of nineteenth century Japan.
While many of the customs mentioned are now outdated, they clearly show the foundation that influenced the Japanese people of today.
The author's later move to America and how she viewed our culture was equally interesting.
Two parts that were especially memorable to me were her first experience with meat and with gum, both told in good detail and both highly entertaining.
This should make for a very interesting book club discussion!
Her childhood is written very matter-of-factly with a slant towards the charming nostalgia - which she addresses at the very end when she revisits her old hometown. The reality of her hometown, much changed, is a striking and startling contrast to her memories. From memories of her childhood, she creates a foundation that tries to express her worldview: that all people, though different, still have the same fire and energy as each other. Also, I'm super into Japanese-transplant stories!!!
Fascinating true story with a local connection: one of the girls went to Bryn Mawr College. I enjoyed reading about 1900 American attitudes toward these girls, that they crossed the country on the newly completed railroad, and the kindness of the people who took them into their homes. I couldn't have sent my very young daughter across the ocean in early 1900's for ten years, though I understand it was an honor for these mothers to do this for their emperor. I skimmed the beginning and the end. I wanted it to end before it did.
A daughter of the samurai: how a daughter of feudal Japan, living hundreds of years in one generation, became a modern American. The most striking thing is that she is describing her childhood from the inside, as the Samurai daughter being brought up into the traditional woman's role and ALSO having the education almost of a son (both roles stiff with honor and hedged with tradition)--but from the perspective of the American acculturated woman that she became--and that this is the _same person_.
a wonderful look at Japanese culture at a critical point (after the Shogun was overthrown in 1869) from the inside and an even more wonderful look at American culture at the same time from the outside by an intelligent woman fluent in both Japanese and English. Well written, some minor transcription errors in the Kindle Edition are irritating but the book doesn't lose its charm.
I loved this book. it was very honest and portrayed the difficulty for women in japan in this era and all the previous ones as well, but also showed such humanity in the person of Etsu - she was so real and you couldn't help feeling what she was going through and the courage she showed. great insight into a disappearing culture as well - very moving.
An interesting auto-biographical book chronicling the life of a Japanese woman who has an arranged marriage to a Japanese-American man. If you like historical fiction on this topic - such as "Memoirs of a Geisha" or "Honolulu" - I would recommend this book (although it may tarnish your enjoyment of some of the fictional reads).
OK
a sweet book starts out a little slow but gets more interesting as she grows up
FALSE
Great book, but I thought otherwise in the beginning.
I found this at a book store in Denver. It was interesting to read how the author adjusted to U.S. life. You'll like this if you liked "Memoirs of a Geisha."
Very charming and interesting. A view of a way of life very foreign to me.
A treasure. Whenever you start rationing pages after 3 chapters, something is speaking to your heart.
unexpectedly readable. and lots of little tidbits and stories intertwined into the greater narrative. i liked her comparisons of america and japan, even if they are a bit superlative.
loved it---I took a long time to read this a) because I had so much else going on and b) it was a book to savor even for a person who usually doesn't slowly savor the best of books.
This is a treasure and hard to find. Etsu was welcomed to America by Amanda Landrum Wilson, my first cousin 3 generations removed. A wonderful story.
An intriguing autobiography of a Japanese woman who comes to America. She successfully paints both early 20th century Japan and California and her own role and troubles.
