https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/618034.Sane_Occultism
You know how in "Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince" Harry finds a used potions textbook that has linear notes that help him understand the subject? I found a used copy of this book that was owned by a college professor where the linear notes are just as interesting as the text itself.
A very straightforward and grounding treatise on the aspects of sound occultism. Will surely assist any serious practitioner in how to approach the plethora of New Age nonsense that is rampant in today's world.
What a wonderful view into the history of the occult, I'm obsessed with her books.
This book was written in the 20's, and it was originally a VERY critical series of articles that were published in a magazine about occultism.
Fortune was a genius, there's no doubt about that, and while many of her articles are still valid today, there are a few that make you go "hmm" since they were a product of the science and social assumptions of their day.
And - for people who think occultism is anti-Christian - Fortune was a very devout Christian, and one of the most dedicated occultists of modern times, and her organization is still around.
Same thing we see today and probably will always see as long as humans exist.
This book is excellent for pagans and others who practice energy work, magic and so on.
I'm close to being finished so I think I can review it.
I've always liked Dion Fortune because she's very well read, well researched and she's done a lot of work to dispel much of the myth, hype and b.s. in the pagan world.
This book will definitely help you keep your feet on the ground.
This is a good book to read before one makes the journey to venture off into paganism, wicca and magic work.
Hm. A fascinating read, if hampered by language of the Era and her view on former colleagues. Unfortunately, her views of the Left-Hand Path is the same as the modern-day view, which I thought disappointing. Despite that stale view, her book, which is a collection of essays on various subject concerning the study of the Occult is still a worthwhile book to have.
one of *few* authors on the occult that I feel was truly sane. She seemed to have retained her balance until the end of her life.
It was an interesting read. It talked about the pitfalls and the types of personalities that should not engage in magic or occultism. It talked about psychic self-defense. A good read.
