https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16951.When_the_Lion_Feeds
It brings an era of African history to life both richly and with plenty of verve.
I thought figures were boring, but there's the same level of breakneck excitement here as there was in the card games of Fleming's CASINO ROYALE.The final section explores life in the wilderness, and elephant hunting features a lot.
Each to their own, but the African flora and fauna comes to life in the author's expert hands as he explores scenery that he would revisit time and again in his career.The book ends rather abruptly and afterwards I learned a sequel, THE SOUND OF THUNDER, carries on the same story.
When it comes to historical fiction, Wilbur Smith writes some of the best stories I have read.
I have been reading the Courtney series out of sequence.
When the Lion Feeds  is the first book in the series.Sean Courtney is a character who is larger than life in the story.
A good portion is dedicated to Sean's adventures in the Witwatersrand region of South Africa.
This region was one world's most lucrative gold mining area which lead to the founding of Johannesburg.There are portions of the story I found predictable.
On to the next book in the series!
I picked this book to fulfill my challenge requirement. I did not expect to enjoy it. It is not what I typically read. I was pleasantly surprised. Set in South Africa on the mid to late 1800s, the reader follows the vicissitudes of the rambunctious Sean, who grows from cattlehand on the family ranch to gold miner and ivory hunter. He finds lovers, enemies, comrades. He hunts, kills, invests, and somehow always prevails. This is book one in a series of about fourteen. It definitely sparks interest in the next novel. 2017 Reading Challenge:takes place in the wilderness
Wilbur Smith vividly recreates the excitement of the war for the young men-their hope of winning their own cattle, the horror of the massacre at Isandhlwana, the heroism of the defence at Rorkes Drift.'Witwatersrand' is the name of the second part of this book and it tells the story of Sean's fabulous success in the gold rush and his rich life with Duff Charleywood and the beautiful Candy in the new town of Johannesburg, where huge fortunes were made and lost in a morning's dealing on the Exchange.The atmosphere of this feverish, violent time is brilliantly drawn: the heavy drinking, the elaborate houses, the ruthless abandonment of the failure.
Read 100 pages and decided it wasn't for me. I kept having flashbacks to Rich Man, Poor Man and who wants to be reminded of that crappy potboiler?
The fact that the only books I've read by these fellas have been their first may be the reason this is so.When the Lion Feeds is something I needed at the time (and what do you know, this is exactly how I started my review for Archer's Kane and Abel), and that is simply a good story.
You know, just a good story as if someone were to stop you on the street and tell you what happened.
I HATE reading battle scenes!).Smith did pleasantly surprise me a few times with his characters, though.
But no matter how bad things get for Sean, and they get pretty bad, he still manages to pull his boots up and go forward to his next adventure.The world has become a lot more politically correct over the last 53 years and whilst you may not want to be influenced by it , like or not, you are.Whilst reading I had to keep reminding myself that this all takes place 150 years ago and not be too judgemental.The wholesale slaughter of herds of Elephants for their Ivory.
But for all that, if you like family sagas you can't go wrong with this.
When the Courtney brothers accompany their father into a battle with one of the African tribes, Garrick and Sean fight for their country, the former the only one to return.
Garrick disappears into the bottle and is left out of the narrative, permitting Sean to tackle new and exciting challenges on which Smith takes the reader.
The curious reader may wonder what happens to Garrick, who will hopefully appear in future novels to flesh out his role and the reason Smith used him in the early chapters of the book.
Kudos, Mr. Smith for this wonderful beginning to an exciting series I will surely devour over the next few months.
Reading this Wilbur Smith novel, three decades after I read the last one, The Dark of the Sun, I quickly realized how far I have strayed from reading popular fiction: like hero Sean Courtney, once you leave home, you can never come back.This book is still a page turner despite its age.
Part three of the book is the best section as it portrays a deeper character investment, as if Smith is maturing in his craft just as Sean is maturing with his many losses.This is a good adventure story and a great debut novel for Smith at the time.
Having read all of his Egypt books (and LOVING them) I decided to tackle his Courtney series set in S.
The story is broken in 3 parts.In the first part I had a hard time at first with the main character (Sean...he was a real turd lol) but once the story got going and other characters were introduced I forgot all about the first part of the book and really enjoyed the adventure.There were some serious ups and downs...I even cried at one point.
I really enjoyed this book but don't know if it was enough to read the rest of the series.
Wow. The end of this book just stunned me.
This was quite an amazing story and given the length of this series (13 books in total from the looks of it) and the mass-market paperback-edness of it, I was expecting a lot of heroism, action, some tragedy and just an overall feeling of fluff.
I could not have been more wrong.
This was utterly fantastic and riveting.
Adventure, coming-of-age, drama and historical fiction full of brutal realism and humanity.
For the most part, the characters aren't heroes or people to look up to.
I'm totally sold and am eager to see how the story develops.

Excellent old fashioned African adventure complete with buxom babes and Zulu warriors. Wilbur Smith is interesting. Will check out more in this series.
When it comes to action packed stories, full if excitement, charming hero's and of course the rotten to the. core bad guy, Wilbur Smith is the go to writer.  Wilbur's books are not aimed at just aimed at men, far from it, they are for anyone, who like me, loves to travel to Africa, from the comfort of my chair' ,  He also writes about Egypt, (Historical) So go on, pick up a Wilbur Smith, you will be hooked...
This is the first volume in the two volume of When the Lion Feeds by Wilbur Smith from the Courteney series.
This may obviously be the same ISBN for both the first volume paper back issue and the hard book of its entire two volumes in one book.
I read the first volume and rushed back to get the second volume in vein of reading most of the Courteney series.
The story starts first with the background as life being important to two young boys growing.
Life during well known gold rushes going into years that becomes an area of great tinkering and knowledge.
"Francois, how many men up at the face?" "Cave in" "Francois voice was now hysterically shrill.
"Cave in".
He broke Sean's grip and raced away towards the lift station, the mud flying from his gumboots.
His terror infected Sean and he ran a dozen paces after francois before he stopped himself.
For precious seconds he wavered with fear slithering round like a reptile in his stomach: go back to call the others and perhaps die with them or follow francois and live.Into the wilds of Natla in the 1870's are born Sean and Garrick Courtney, the twin brothers who could not be more different.
This book starts the Courtney series and takes place in South Africa just before the Boer War. Sean and his twin brother Garrick borrow their father's shotgun and go hunting while their parents are out.
Sean trips and accidentally shoots his brother.
Garrick loses his leg, and thus starts the saga of the Courtney brothers.
Sean eventually leaves the family farm and strikes out with his ever faithful companion and servant Mbejane.
There he finds wealth, power, adventure and eventually love.
But is that love really meant to last...
A well written, fast paced, historically accurate adventure that will hold you to the very last word.

An exhillerating adventure, the excitement and pace are breathtaking. The way in which action and passion are mixed leads me to want to be able to write with such a style. The world the book describes never really existed, the characters and morals are more fantastical than real life drama, but that is part of the story's beauty. Hat's off to a Master story teller! Not that I am the first to say so, nor the foremost...
"First published: 1964" - one can tell.
Why do authors have to have sex scenes; I am thankful for the fast forward button.
Where is vidangel for books.This book is about two twin brothers in Johannesburg, Africa who experience life early, death of a loved one, competing affection for a girl, war, and disagreement over a woman.
One brother heads off to find his fortune and meets a man and a lady in the Gold fields (Duff and Candy).
I loved the character of Duff.
This book has language - I'm not sure if I'm going to follow this author anymore.
My full review is at: http://elleisforliterature.blogspot.c... Twin boys, Sean and Garrick, grow up in 1800's Natal, Africa. It covers their childhood and then follows Sean's life during the gold rush times in Johannesburg. Amazing writing that flows. This is the first in the 13 part Courtney series. The audio was stellar. Definitely 'best of' for 2017 for me.
I have to say that Wilbur Smith's books are all very good. There is "A Sparrow Falls" and "The Angels Weep". And the best "When the Lion Feeds"
If the rest of this series is as strong as the start I have stumbled on to something wonderful.
A historical fiction novel. I felt it was dragging at times, not a book for me
Wow, just wow.
Miserable ending.The ending of this book will make you feel about as miserable as the main character. First and last book I have ever read by Wilbur Smith!!!!!
This was an engaging enough read, touching on those things South African - the Zulu wars, the Dutch influence, gold and diamond mining, cattle ranching, the wholesale slaughter of elephants for their tusks, and the heartache that comes with it all. But after a while it was rather like reading about waves: good things are going to happen, and then bad things are going to happen, but then good things happen, and more bad things happen... it's all unfolding much like a map. The first two parts were
﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿This was an engaging enough read, touching on those things South African - the Zulu wars, the Dutch influence, gold and diamond mining, cattle ranching, the wholesale slaughter of elephants for their tusks, and the heartache that comes with it all.
But after a while it was rather like reading about waves: good things are going to happen, and then bad things are going to happen, but then good things happen, and more bad things happen...
By the time I finished, I was at a point where, honestly, I almost didn't care any more - the waves are still going to come, and still going to go.
Nie wszystkim książkom udaje się ta sztuka, ale ta wywołała u mnie różne emocje - od radości, poprzez obawę do ogromnego smutku (aż w końcu uroniłem łzę).
Zawsze sprowadza się to do zagarniania ziemi, podporządkowania sobie lokalnej ludności i eksploatowania złóż naturalnych, a afrykańskie farmy i miasteczka są podobne do tych założonych przez amerykańskich kolonistów.Językowo jest bardzo dobrze, czytanie takiego tekstu sprawia przyjemność samo w sobie - mam wrażenie, że Wilbur Smith to jeden z tych pisarzy, którzy mogliby pisać o lepieniu garnków z gliny przez kilka stron, a ja i tak byłbym zachwycony konstrukcją zdań i mistrzostwem w operowaniu piórem.
The first part of the book focuses on Sean and his brother Garry growing up on a farm together.
The two have to learn to live with their new dynamic and get on with their lives.The second part of the book focuses on Sean leaving the nest and getting out into the world to make his fortune in the goldmines.
The main character is an alpha male and because of that the style of writing was interesting and so different to what I am used to.
