https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37875.The_Art_of_the_Start
Make meaning: create a product or service that makes the world better.2.
Hmm... Pretty boring for a book that is suppose to light a fire. The real art of starting is starting, which I did, I just couldn't finish it.
The Art of the Start by Guy Kawasaki is subtitled "The Time-Tested, Battle-Hardened Guide for Anyone Starting Anything." Unfortunately, that isn't entirely true, unless you consider reading only the chapters that pertain to you.
The book does have a very specific audience in mind, and the subtitle should have been "How to take your start-up-business-idea and use venture capital to become the next Apple/Nike/Coke/Microsoft." Like I said, pretty niche, and not for "Anyone Starting Anything." There is no-nonsense advice on partnerships, bootstrapping, seeking venture capital, marketing, etc.
While much of the advice is applicable to other industries, the book will hit the bullseye specifically with those starting technology businesses.Another thing about this book: parts of it contain advice for those seeking funding from angel and VC investors.
However, even if you choose never to seek investment funding, I still recommend the book.
The kind of thinking you need to do to satisfy investors, is actually the kind of rigorous thinking more entrepreneurs should do for themselves.
No, "Art of the Start" is more like a kick in the pants.
But sometimes a kick in the pants is exactly what a startup entrepreneur needs.
A book by Guy Kawasaki is always a fun read.
Kawasaki has a great sense of humor and is not afraid to speak his truth.
Both authors speak their truth.Kawasaki has an innate sense of how much information the brain can absorb at any one time.
Kawasaki's use of language is loose and informal, and makes you feel like he is having a relaxed conversation with you.
This book is easy to read and well organized.Kawasaki was one of my role models for Great from the Start.
His playful sense of humor makes his writer's voice comfortable to follow.
"The Time-Tested, Battle-Hardened Guide for Anyone Starting Anything." I was initially intrigued by the idea of starting my life over again, so I sat down on the floor in the bookstore aisle to see what this book had to offer.I was immediately impressed by Kawasaki's tone and style.
Now after reading books to formulate my own career plan and feeling energized about the prospect of being my own boss, I was ready.And Kawasaki did not disappoint.
His practical style revealed a no-nonsense approach to business, and he uses real-life examples from both his experience and the experience of the common person to expound and further clarify his concepts.And he starts right from the start by discussing the importance of meaning in what we do.
Accessible with great, practical advice, especially regarding the forming of a team and bootstrapping versus VC funding. Much of what he's written is consistent with what I'm learning on the Meetup/networking circuit here in Boston.You can skim through the social media chapters (it's dated - particular emphasis on Google+).I recommend to anyone considering taking the plunge or actually plunging.

So I did, and he wrote back to thank me.I've read a lot of "how-to" books on a lot of topics, from woodworking to business development, and this is one of the best ever written.
It is clear that Guy took away wheelbarrows of experience and war stories from his stint at Apple and that he has turned that into gold at his current venture, http://www.garages.com – who, incidentally, helps find venture capital for startups in SillyValley.
I don’t think I am ready yet for a startup but, if I was going in that direction, I’d certainly start here and probably pitch my idea to Guy and garage.com because he (and they) seem to know all the ins and outs.
The section about Lowering Barriers to Adoption has immediate meaning for me in my current job.
Fun, informative read from someone who knows what he's talking about. He includes interesting and memorable stories to illustrate his points. He also provides enough examples and details that you feel that you have a chance of actually implementing what he suggests without belaboring it or overgeneralizing to the point of uselessness.Particularly liked the chapters on "being a mensch" and rainmaking. He advocates a boot-strapping, "get it done" business mentality with a solid core of integrity.Certainly a different approach than I got in most of my B-school classes. :)For more book reviews, visit my blog, Build Enough Bookshelves.
it is hard to do when driving 65 miles per hour down the highway!But it is my hope to re-listen to this book soon so that ideas can percolate in my head and turn into action.This breaks the project into many points.
If you are starting a business or a church group or a new hobby; you need a plan.
The dream needs to be made manifest in pieces -- sometimes starting is the most difficult thing so break it into manageable chunks and slowly move forward.
This book is a great resource if you are starting to formulate a new dream or business.
I later learned that he had evangelized the original Macintosh while at Apple, which made his book on startups a no-brainer read for me.The Art of the Start is a quick read, and is written in Kawasaki's entertaining and informative style.
I agreed with much of his high-level content--for example, the best way to build a brand is to build a good product--but this book has such good tactical information that I'm going to return this copy to the library and buy one to use as a reference.It's highly recommended, but you don't have to trust me on that.
They asked students to watch a video oftwo teams of players throwing basketballs to one another.
The students'task was to count how many passes one team made to theirteammates.Thirty-five seconds into the video, an actor dressed as a gorillaentered the room the players were in, thumped his chest, and remainedin the video for another nine seconds.
When asked, fifty percentof the students did not notice the gorilla!"" Apparently, they wereattending to the assigned task of counting passes and were perceptuallyblind to extraneous events.The same phenomenon occurs in organizations: Everyone is focusedon the intended customers and intended uses, and they fail tosee flowers blossoming in unexpected ways."You should read this book as soon as possible ,cause it's a wonderful & inspiring book

This book was funny and inspiring. It gives you tips and advices on how to launch your company or project. A very quick read that cuts to the chase and provides insight that every Entrepreneur with or without a plan should read. The book written in a style that is very entertaining, yet contains so much wisdom that it feels like you have Guy sitting beside you as mentor. It's the book you should select if you want to read one book about start ups.
There's a reason this book is recommended reading for anyone thinking of starting a business! It has great ideas that even an existing company could use to help make their business better. The book is primarily focused on tech start-ups, which makes sense, but even if you're planning on starting a brick and mortar store you can adapt the ideas to fit your business.Definitely read whether you're planning on selling cupcakes or software.
I was quite disappointed with this book and found it empty. It's a good introduction without any particular ideas. I mean they are many challenging startups books with great ideas, from Eric Reis, Peter Thiel, Ben Horovitz.This book is nothing but a summary of facts. The worst thing is that most of these facts are obvious or not true anymore. I mean who does a 30 pages business plan nowadays ?In short only read this book if you want a new conversation topic at the dinner table.
One of four books I recommend for taking ideas from mind to market. Kawasaki breaks things down into simple steps. This is the "How-To" outline to start any project; as well as how-to present the project to prospective partners, investors, or customers. Combined with the right philosophy, this book should help any project get off the ground without all the useless rhetoric. You can see this book in action as I move projects forward at http://SelfEnterpriser.com
'Art of the Start' is a decent, quick business book. I completely agree with his revenue first and structure second approach to startups. Refreshing advice as it seems some startups can grab funding before they even have a revenue game plan. Also, a bonus point for overusing the elegant word 'bozo'.
There are very few books that I've read in one day. This is one of them. Simple, practical and incredibly valuable, this book is a straight forward guide to starting a company, non-profit or church – though the latter group will have to drawn some conclusions of their own, as the book is definitely targeted to those looking to create a new product or service.I strongly recommend this book.
To start your business first of all you need the idea that will change the world. If you have it, this book will help you to represent it in the right way. The advises are simple and obvious but nonetheless are still brilliant. This is a desk book for all beginners
I'd heard good things about this book, but ultimately found it disappointing. Might be ideal for someone just entering the business world, but as the owner of a small design studio I found much of the advice to be useless or outdated.
I found this difficult to sit through. A lot of common sense advice such as "bounce ideas off of many people as you'll get more feedback".
Awe+some=Cool.
WEAVE A MAT (MILESTONES, ASSUMPTIONS, AND TASKS)."3- "THE ART OF INTERNAL ENTREPRENEURING: PUT THE COMPANY FIRST...KILL THE CASH COWS...STAY UNDER THE RADAR...FIND A GODFATHER...GET A SEPARATE BUILDING...GIVE HOPE TO THE HOPEFUL...ANTICIPATE, THEN JUMP ON, TECTONIC SHIFTS...BUILD ON WHAT EXISTS...COLLECT AND SHARE DATA...LET THE VICE PRESIDENTS COME TO YOU...DISMANTLE WHEN DONE...REBOOT YOUR BRAIN."4- "SEIZE THE HIGH GROUND Unless you are a rabbit about to be devoured by a coyote, good positioning is inspiring and energizing.
Thus, good positioning also embodies these qualities: SELF-EXPLANATORY...SPECIFIC...CORE...RELEVANT...LONG-LASTING...DIFFERENTIATED."5- "Many entrepreneurs try to perfect their business plan and then pull PowerPoint slides out of it.
"7- "If you do take this path, however, understand that starting as a service business is a good initial path but isn't always the right long-term strategy.
The GIST of this book is that it’s about the PURPOSE of everything an entrepreneur experiences in building a successful startup.
One main reason for success of this book has been the precision in identifying and sequencing phases of a startup.
Tactics for building a brand and identifying opportunities for rainmaking are discussed comprehensively while making connections to interesting concepts through other sources.The above reasons are only a minor contribution to the success of Kawasaki’s book.
However, following are the main reasons readers and entrepreneurs alike are drawn to this book making it a phenomenal success.
While some reviewers praised Guy Kawasaki for providing a great nuts-and-bolts approach to starting "anything", as he claims as the premise for his book, others were critical of its simplicity.
Yet, he easily speaks in a manner befitting one who knows his audience--the intelligent though not-so-experienced self-starter looking for some tips as she/he makes headway into some new venture.Guy Kawasaki is very direct in refuting a lot of time-honored traditions in the business world: the importance of developing a mission statement, say, or of writing out a business plan.
The chapters on venture capital and angel investors clearly are intended for entrepreneurs looking for funding to start their businesses.
One of the best startup book I've ever read. It's short but concise and get to the point really quick.

