https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10989.The_Outlandish_Companion
Thankfully, I am a lover.It has been quite a few years since I have read the first four books: Outlander, Dragonfly in Amber, Voyager, and Drums of Autumn.
This section is just perfect for when you are reading Drums of Autumn and don't quite remember how Jared Munro Fraser fits into Jamie's family tree.
Also, if you've ever considered writing historical fiction this section gives you a good idea about what you're in for...a second home, the library.Part Seven was also a quick interesting read, Where Titles Come From and The Gabaldon Theory of Time Travel.
After reading J.R. Ward's Blackdagger Brotherhood Insiders Guide, I kinda expected this companion to be similar with inside insight into the characters and little tidbits of information not presented in the books.
The chapter on characters was rather interesting but again no new information except the horoscope charts for Jamie and Claire which were impressive but irrelevant IMHO.
Sections on Family Trees, glossary/pronunciation guides and websites/online venues, I found pointless and a waste of space (I did not read but quickly skimmed).
The chapter on Lallybroch was interesting but again nothing new just bits and pieces pulled from each of the four novels.
So excited that my secret Santa gave me an Amazon.co.uk gift voucher and I could purchase this!! Merci beaucoup, mon amie. Je t'aime. xxxx
There were parts of the book we really liked and parts that weren't really something we wanted to know about, but probably interesting for others (things about the herbs and medicine Claire gets into).
We loved hearing the author plans to write a prequel about Jamie's parents!
And most of all we loved that she intends for there to be a happy ending to this massive tale...If you're an Outlander fan I do recommend this volume.
It's like having your own chance to ask the author all the questions you've ever had about the books.
Besides coming in handy to readers who’ve paused mid-series for a lengthy period of time and want to remember the events of the previous books, before picking up where they left off,  The Outlandish Companion  is a captivating insight into the writer’s creative process. How the first book came about, plus the research that went into further developing the story of Claire Randall Fraser. I was pleasantly surprised by her down-to-earth vision on the craft and all the little (self)ironies regarding
Besides coming in handy to readers who’ve paused mid-series for a lengthy period of time and want to remember the events of the previous books, before picking up where they left off, 
How the first book came about, plus the research that went into further developing the story of Claire Randall Fraser.
I loved the tiny illustrations scattered across each chapter and, simply by flipping through the book, you can recognize the amount of work that went into the production of this companion.
I love love LOVE the Outlander series, so of course had to have this book.
I thought it had many interesting bits, but also a bunch that I didn't care to read (and that's ok!
I liked FINALLY knowing how to pronounce those Gailic words but WHY oh WHY didn't she have the Foreign Language Glossary in alphabetical order?
What a PITA to look up anything.I did like reading her email exchanges with her computer group as she was hashing out ideas -- that was interesting.
And I loved her footnotes -- funny.
This would be a good gift for someone who loves the series, but not a must-read.
This was an enjoyable extra to the Outlander series, though I did skip some sections, such as the list of characters, horological interpretations, Gaelic glossary, etc.
It was amusing to see her write about being an author in the early days of the internet, and about her plans for the series when there were only a few books published, and to see how those plans have changed.
One section listed The Fiery Cross as the 2nd to last book, another section mentioned Written in My Own Heart’s Blood.
It definitely made me want get a hurry on with the rest of the series so I can discuss it fully with my mom.
This book was written as a "companion" to the Outlander series - a book full of fun facts, background details, and stories about "the making of" the series written by Diana Gabaldon.
The fact that I would actually read this big, heavy hardback "reference" book cover-to-cover probably says it all.
While I am a big fan of the series, I wouldn't say I'm "obsessed".
There is definitely something special, something rare about how readers connect with the characters.
I've skimmed a few other similar "companion" books, but found that they were much better used as a tool to refer back to - not something to curl up with and read just for pleasure.

I'm kicking myself for not reading this sooner. Until now, I have used the companions as reference books-which they are wonderful for-but I didna realize how much I would love reading all they contain from cover to cover. If you are an Obsessenach like me, I highly recommend you READ these. It was simply delightful from page one. Can't wait to dive into Volume 2.
This might be OK if you're keeping the glossary open while reading the books and referencing it every time a foreign term pops up, but if you're wanting to look up a specific word or phrase, this doesn't seem to be the friendliest way to find it.*Part Five – Outlandish Web Sites and Online Venues –I'm sorry to say that this section is almost entirely outdated, which is the unfortunate nature of printed materials regarding the World Wide Web. The only two sites that appear to still be operational (or at least that I could still find) were Ms. Gabaldon's own site (which of course has a new URL with her own name as the domain), and the Ladies of Lallybroch.
I discovered this book when I was in the middle of the series and found it useful, but I think it could be improved (and hope it will be when Diana completes the series and another such volume might be required).1) It would have been easier to find negotiate the glossaries if the terms had been listed in alphabetical order rather than the order in which they appeared in the book.
2) What was the point of horoscopes for the two main characters?
I thought this was a terrible waste of space.3) The info on Scottish clans, herbal medicine, family tree of the main characters, etc.
were nice side notes to the Gabaldon books.
But did we really need Gabaldon's reprinting of reviews and fan mail?
I really enjoy Gabaldon's books. I treasure her characters. I admire her imagery. Her fiction speaks to me.But I can't stand her voice! I stopped in the middle of this book because it was ruining the magic for me. I don't want to know how unspectacular her inspiration was. I don't want to know her secrets. Let me remain blissfully uninformed!
Like the title says, this is a companion to the series and should be read after reading the first four books. Since it contains whole book summaries and a full character index... spoilers abound. Obviously.Recommended for: those who have finished the first four books and need an Outlander crash course
El culmen perfecto para toda seguidora de la saga Outlander. Información extra historica, de idiomas, lugares, etc, que aparecen durante la historia de Claire & Jamie. Muy entretenido y útil.
Excellent a great way to catch up on the series without reading 4K pages.
It gives a synopsis of the first several books, and then delves into some of the "why" questions for character development.
If you have already read the books, and wondered how to pronounce all the Gaelic words, this book tells you the phonetic rules for Gaelic, and how the words are used.
There were sections that i didn't bother to read, such as the astrological charting of the main characters.
I -did- enjoy the sections that discussed how Diana developed her characters early in books so that she could use the details in later stories.
The Outlandish Companion is a reference based on the first four books of the Outlander series.
Ms. Gabaldon describes how she began writing novels, her research approach (fascinating), synopses of books one to four, questions she gets from fans, etc.This audiobook is narrated by Davina Porter, as well as author Diana Gabaldon.
Ms. Porter narrates most of the Outlander audiobooks (I believe the novellas have a different narrator) and is wonderfully talented.
listening to her comments felt like listening to a friend and made me like the Outlander series even more.
Highly recommended for Outlander fans -- the kindle version is very good but the unabridged audiobook is amazing!
The introduction to this book chronicles Gabaldon's journey to becoming a ficion writer (quite a leap, considering her backround in zoology and comic books...yes, you read that right.) It is one of the funniest things I've ever read.
You've got to love a girl who writes: "What was the easiest kind of book for me to write?
I didn't see the point in making things difficult for myself.
After considerable thought, it seemed to me a historical novel was best...if I couldn't make things up, I could look them up." I love her.
I love this book! I find that her books are so involved and intricate that when a new one comes out I need a little refresher on what has come before. In the past I re-read the first books, but now that we are at this point in the series that takes some TIME. With the companion I'm able to read the synopsis of each book and remember where we left each character when last we met. Wonderful!! I do, however, wish that she could update it since 2 or is it 3 now?, books have come out since. *HINT*
I enjoyed this book (especially the glossory and pronunciation guide). It was wonderful to get some more background information about the series, what inspired it, why some things happened the way they did, etc. However, I felt that the book was much too long winded and redundant in some places. Overall, a good resource, though.
The author's wry, witty humor in full evidence...particularly enjoyed Part Five: Research (online penicillin text convos) and Part Six: Where Titles Come From.A must-have for any Outlander fan library.
Review to come
This book helped me a lot while reading the Outlander books. The most important part was without doubt the part where all the characters were specified. But yes, if you are a reader like me, reading this books over a long stretch of time and having problems remembering who is who, then you definitely need this to piece together this immense story.
Excellent, and a must-have companion for the series.
A skim re-read because my interest in genealogy etc is pretty limited. The now-quite-outdated sections on the internet are a little time capsule.
Interesting enough in parts, but mostly for reference. It contains a section at the end about the production of the TV series from the sale of the option for the story several times throughout the years to the start of filming in 2014. The part that I enjoyed the most was a collection of letters the author received from readers, some with questions, some with complaints, a lot of them outrageous, and her own responses to these letters. Quaint and picturesque enough to satisfy the incipient obsession I am developing with all things Outlander-ish.
But for a book in this format, I decided to make an exception.
Some die-hard fans of the Outlander series have probably read every bit of this, and there really is a lot of interesting information in here, but not all of the content is worth taking the time to read (e.g. horoscopes).
I enjoyed the "Characters" section, the FAQ's, and the "Controversy" section the most.
Overall, it was great seeing the author's perspective on her characters and their actions.
Warning: this does contain spoilers for the first 4 books in the series, so don't pick this up until you've read at least that far.
Update review for my 2016 audiobook listen, for the revised/updated 2015 edition of The Outlandish Companion, Volume I: Basically, this is a must-have for Outlander fans, and belongs on your shelf right next to the equally outstanding OCII.
I wrote up a reading and listening guide for this volume -- you can view it here at Bookshelf Fantasies.My review of the original edition of The Outlandish Companion (read approx.
2012): For fans of the Outlander series, "The Outlandish Companion" is a must-have.
TOC includes detailed synopses on the first four books, an alphabetical guide to all characters, Gaelic phrases and pronunciation key, sections on historical accuracy and background, and some very intriguing responses to frequently asked questions.
Overall, an interesting book.
I enjoyed Gabaldon's tone, and her anecdotes throughout.
I learned some interesting tidbits in regards to the Outlander series, the creation and thought that went into it, as well as her process.
Even got a bit of a history lesson, which is always appreciated.My only (personal) complaint is the book took on a professor/researcher tone at times, and that there were a section that was basically the art of research.
Truthfully, I understand why this is included, so can't really fault anyone.
I just skipped along to the next section.I am very much looking forward to a second companion.
