https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59969.Sin_City_Vol_2
Sexual deviance and twisted characters.
Deception and corruption.
While the second volume is supposed to be the same story as was depicted in the second movie, I have not seen it yet.
The stories and the art are unique.
The characters are very enthralling.
Also, since there is a lot of bad stuff going on here, you almost feel like you are getting away with something when you are reading it.
This is not for the feint of heart, but if you like murder, sex, corruption, really bad bad guys, and suspense, be sure to check this series out.
I can understand now why Eva Green was chosen for the role, she has a similar problem in a lot of her movies).The level of explicit violence, strong language and exposed breasts is no longer a surprise for a Sin City album.
It's always night time in Sin City, an urban jungle controlled by outcasts, criminals, ladies of pleasure and drug dealers.
Marv will play a sidekick role for photographer Dwight, making the two albums overlap in time.
(all images here from the recent movie Sin City 2, a version that comes very close to the original comic)
I thought it would be fun in anticipation for the new Sin City movie A Dame to kill for to read the comic that the movie is based upon.
I loved the first movie (Actually bought it today and will try to re-watch it again soon) and I hope that the sequel will be just as good.Anyway the story in Sin City: A Dame to kill for is quite simple: Dwight is working as a photographer taking pictures of men having affairs with women.
And of course, he enlists Marv to help him.
The black and white is worked here to the extreme and offers an absolutely haunting dark atmosphere that hampers the reader from the first boards.
The details are neat, the work on the fabulous light, the game of contrasts of the most interesting.
One comes to wonder about what to look at each vignette: black is the drawing or is it white?The characters stand out, between shadows and light.
Even the feminine bodies, though pulpy, seem sharp, as if they were ready to fight that deaf over the pages.
One gets involved in this torturous entanglement, alongside tortured characters, to get out only once the last page turned.
It's hard to give a summary of the story without making it sound cheesy and stereotypical with far too much macho action, because the book, and series even, is all of those things but manages to be so much better than all of that.
This is Frank Miller: The Glory Years, when he was writing amazing Batman books, Daredevil stories, and creating his own comic masterpiece with Sin City.
He writes and draws these books providing a master-class to all artists who read it: this is how you write a noir comic and make it both high art and bad-ass to boot.The book is in black and white, and Miller uses light and shadows to full effect in all of the panels.
I love you."(She kisses him.)DWIGHT: "You do that again and I swear to hell I'll kill you." Charming.
It's ridiculous, and frankly, insulting to men.Marv and Dwight team up to bring down Ava's allegedly abusive husband.
I'm even happier when Ava lays it on thick to the huge cop (she and Miller both seem to like huge men) and he is just formal with her.
I'm just not buying this.Anyway, of course, because all men are morons according to Miller, the cop is immediately willing to risk his life and his job doing whatever Ava asks him to do and hunt down Dwight and kill him.
4.5 starsNot quite as good as the first one, but still damn good.
Man I think more woman in this series are portrayed as prostitutes than not lol.
So this is about a new guy in the sin city universe called Dwight and he, just like Marv, aren't very good people.
However, when a old lover comes to visit Dwight telling him terrible things are happening to her he decides to help her despite knowing better.
Good: I enjoyed Dwight as a character, foolish but not completely dumb.
Bad: The woman in this series seem either placed for plot points or just always slutty or downright shitty.
I've been enjoying them as a good "gritty" style fun.
I really like Sin City: A Dame To Kill For the comic with its killer artwork, the gloomy smokey crime-noir atmosphere, the style, the character design, the no-nonsense dialogues.
So I checked out the movie trailer for the movie adaptation: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WvAvE...But......damn...what the hell had I just watched!?
The soundtrack is TERRIBLE, the visual is quite DULL comparing with Sin City 1, even with Eva Green as the beautiful, seductive femme fatale, this movie still looks kind of SUCKY!Still...the scene with Gail and Dwight are still worth watching.
دومین کمیک از سری "شهر گناه" از فرانک میلر افسانه ای!ساختار همه ی کمیک های این مجموعه، کمابیش ساختار فیلم های نوآره: ژانر کارآگاهی، با فضایی تیره، قهرمانی تنها با اصول اخلاقی خاکستری و عنصر بسیار مهم: زن زیبای اغواگر یا فِم فَتَل.femme fataleاین کمیک، نسبت به کمیک قبلی (خداحافظی سخت) خیلی افت داشت.
شخصیت قهرمان به اندازه ی قهرمان کمیک قبلی جذاب نبود، هر چند ضد قهرمان به نظرم از ضد قهرمان کمیک قبلی بهتر و هیجان انگیزتر بود.مشکل بزرگ کمیک، این بود که بیشتر صحنه ها، به جای این که ضمن نقاشی ها نشون داده بشن، توسط راوی روایت شده بودن.
یعنی بیشتر کمیک، باید نوشته ها رو میخوندی تا تصاویر رو نگاه کنی و این توی کمیک خیلی اشکال بزرگیه.
Sin City, Vol. 2: A Dame to Kill For: The ultimate femme fataleOriginally posted at Fantasy LiteratureFrank Miller’s SIN CITY series is famous for its hard-boiled crime noir stories, characters and black-and-white artwork. In the second volume,  A Dame To Kill For , Miller gleefully tackles that most classic of noir tropes, the seductive and deadly femme fatale. Ava is her name, and when she beckons, men cannot resist. Our lead this time is Dwight McCarthy, a photographer who is trying to live a
Sin City, Vol. 2: A Dame to Kill For: The ultimate femme fataleOriginally posted at Fantasy LiteratureFrank Miller’s SIN CITY series is famous for its hard-boiled crime noir stories, characters and black-and-white artwork.
. So having just watched the film, I can say that the main story "A Dame to Kill For" featuring Dwight, Marv, and Ava is very faithfully portrayed.
Despite having a special reason for playing with fire again, it’s still mystifying why such a clever gambler would have such a suicidal urge.The second new story, “Nancy’s Last Dance”, takes place after “That Yellow Bastard” in the first film.
If you have seen the Sin City movie, then you have a pretty good idea of what A Dame to Kill For is all about. It's based very closely on the story told here. The Sin City books are known for their stark black and white illustrations, the well-developed plot-lines, and the swagger of noir. This one explores the idea of a femme fatale, Ava.
4.5*
Another amazing piece of art!To be honest, I almost don't care about the story. I just LOVE the artwork!Stunning and haunting!!!
It seems that Sin City is populated by noir stereotypes.
The story in this book is complex enough to be interesting, but more from just wanting to see it play out, rather than trying to figure out what's going to happen.
There are even frequent snippets of story-cross-over from the first book, which manages to place this tale within the broader context of Sin City.
Sure it's a little bit predictable and the melodrama of brutes and broads tends to hit a single note, but it's done well enough not to matter.Sin City is a dark and deviant place, which is growing and deepening with this second volume...
The Sin City movie is literally the only film in the huge mass of comic book movies that have been made lately that is an improvement on the graphic novels. I enjoy Frank Miller's signature art style, all the black drips and angles, but his writing is just terrible. Lines that were charmingly campy and over-the-top in the movie, are juvenile and awkward in print.
Dwight has an interesting story. I like how Miller overlaps this with Marv. Little scenes here and there that show the back story of the big guy. Miller's noir storytelling is amazing.
Con respecto a la historia, me gusto mucho más éste que el anterior: no obstante, fue bastante más lento que el vol 1.
Esta cidade é mais uma vez o panorama que não dá tréguas e paz aos seus cidadãos.
Mais uma dose muito bem conseguida de desespero, vingança, violência e, claro, uma boa dose de amor que serve de mote para a narrativa.
É assim a vida em Sin City, não se escolhe: ou se morre assassinado ou vive-se assassinando.
É a cidade em que o amor à própria vida arrasta consigo o sabor do crime e da morte.
Nesta cidade as regras continuam a ser legitimadas no dia-a-dia, numa atitude de “no limits” quando não “fuck limits”.
149) – não existe outro mundo para quem está em Sin City!
قرات الاول من فترة طوووووويلة جداً و الأن قررت العودة لاكمال السلسلة علي كل حال ، الرسم بديع و فريد من نوعه اظنه السبب الرئيسي لمتابعتي للقصةخصوصا التضليل و الاضاءاتو ايضا اللغة جميـلة لابعد الحدودبعض السطور تبدو كانها بيوت شعريه من سلالة و جمال اللغة الانجلزية فيهااعجبتني فكرة لم انتبه لها من خلال مشاهدتي للفيلمان بطل الكتاب الاول مات ف نهاية القصة و ان بطل الكتاب التاني مات ف نهاية القصةو البطل التاني كان موجود ف خلفية القصة الاولاو البطل الاول كان موجود ف خلفيه القصة التانيةبداءت اشعر بالحماس للبقية*_*
История, стара като света - красива фатална жена и влюбени до оглупяване мъже... Илюстрациите на Франк Милър са все така брутално добри - познатата черно-бяла визия, игра със светлосенки и едва загатнати силуети, оставящи доста на въображението, скрити образи в привидно хаотично наложени щрихи... Мярна се и любимият грубиян Марв от първия епизод, колкото да направи връзка между двете сюжетни линии, какво повече може да иска човек!
This was just like the movie....so beautiful, so intense and so good. Frank Miller is the man.https://youtu.be/6ICtvJiwsWc
If a woman wants something, she will manipulate men to get what she wants. Love corrupts men! This sequel is definitely better than the original, not to mention, reminiscent of my late teenage years of going back to a strip club. Fresh air is the cure! Wu Xia
The end of my review for Volume 1 was "It's great stuff, I hope the rest is even close to being this good." Fortunately, I was not a bit disappointed.This time around, we follow Dwight, a man who had a great fall and has tried to live a better life, albeit one that still deals in the smut and dirty-dealing of life in Sin City and its environs.
As Dwight's life gets worse, Miller adds a nice touch--Marv shows up.
There's even a bit of that in here, too, showing that Miller has put together an entire world, not just a set of isolated stories.
When she tells him she's in danger, his control starts to slip.What I liked:- There were some nice twists in the story that I didn't see coming- The art sometimes has a kind of cut-out quality that looks pretty awesome; though everything is done in black and white there is still plenty of detailing- A Dame to Kill For happens during the happenings of The Hard Goodbye.
This means we get some more glimpses of Marv, my favourite Sin City character- Many boobs, but rather clean sex scenes- Although they only get a small role, the hookers of Old Town are cool ladiesWhat I didn't like:- I feel like we've seen this story before.
es posible notar una mayor elaboración del argumento --ava es mejor personaje que wendy, por ejemplo, con más dimensiones, aunque en general las mujeres de sin city no gozan de construcciones muy complejas--, además de un avance y un refinamiento en el dibujo, que es más detallado, con aún más dominio de los blancos y los negros.
al final, el segundo tomo de sin city no es mucho mejor que el primero, sino que continúa con firmeza y apego sus lineamientos estéticos, estilísticos y argumentales.
This chapter was a glorious manifesto of manipulation, sacrifice, sex and violence.
Eva is pure evil - I dont think she even has a soul.
Like a siren she draws men in and then controls them like toys.
The contrast between the purity the name "Eva" symbolizes and the malice of her as a character was brilliant.
I loved watching the main character struggle with him self in his quest for inner freedom.
He loves and hates himself.
He loves and hates himself.
Hes trying to stay sober but his inner demons wont stop knocking on his door.
The story is convoluted and ridiculous, and all of the female characters are prostitutes or otherwise loose women. Can Frank Miller give us one fully clothed woman? How about one woman who isn't a nymphomaniac? Or one woman who isn't evil? I think Frank Miller hates women. Hate may be too strong a word here; he has issues with women. I can't relate to any of the characters - male or female - in his work.
Frank Miller may be the ultimate storyboard artist. His comics are stark black and white sketches with little dialogue involved. The plot is laid out like a basic outline and there’s nothing wrong with that, but by no means does he deserve the genius tag some people give him.  “A Dame To Kill For” is a pretty cool drink of noir erotica, but it’s pretty stark stuff and not too deep. Not bad, but nothing that’ll frighten the horses..
Revenge is revealing, painful and thoroughly satisfying.
