https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6355989-proserpine-and-midas
This is a short collection of 2 dramas written by Mary Shelley along classical lines.
The first (which I enjoyed the most) relates the history of Proserpine and how after disregarding the advice of her mother, and separating from her attendants, she is kidnapped by the King of Hell.
I particularly liked the emphasis on the relationship between Ceres (mother) and Proserpine.
Their relationship could definitely be described as adoring and given that Shelley had lost her own daughter just a very short while before the writing of this drama, I think that this portrayal of the relationship could be read as autobiographically significant to the author.
Free on Kindle, there's not much not to like about this short collection.
Minor works, probably written more as a technical exercise than with the intention of producing great art. They are well done, though, with vivid imagery and some subtlety of characterisation, particularly in Proserpine, where a mother's overwhelming terror for the safety of her child is powerfully depicted.
Midas is far far better of the two books and really enjoyable to read. Prserpine, not particularly interesting and not one of Mary Shelley's best works.
Much preferred Proserpine to Midas, but still an interesting look into Shelley's dip into the dramatic.
Beautiful poetry. Both are wonderful myths and her writing brings them to life.
Read on kindle (can't tell if this is the exact same edition), and it was passable. Midas was more entertaining than Proserpine.
Proserpine's song is one of the worst Percy Shelley poems I've ever read--it sounds very forced, almost deliberately bad, while Pan's song has a deliberately-bad feel to it that Proserpine's song lacks.
I read Proserpine in a volume of the complete works of Mary Shelley I had out from the Indiana University Library when I did my graduate school interview eleven years ago.
I had to return that volume before I could read Midas.
Unlike the introducer, I liked Midas slightly better because more of the action occurs on stage, while Proserpine mostly includes a lot of summary of things happening off-stage.
When people described it as a "feminist re-telling", I assumed that it would be like the revisionist school of thought regarding the myth: namely, that Persephone either chooses to go with Hades of her own volition or that she accepts her abduction and eventually becomes a badass Queen of the Underworld that doesn't take shit from anyone and has a 3-headed hellhound for a pet.
This instead focused on the relationship between Demeter and Persephone, which I always thought was a bit nuts.
You are just embarrassing yourself.Midas is the story of the king with the golden touch, who eventually when he has lost it decides that gold is the basest thing and that flowers, earth and sky are the true valuables.***Honestly is there a more tragic story than Mary Shelley’s own?
And Mr Koszul, who wrote the introduction, says he only published it for Shelley’s short poetic contributions to her dramas.
Nice… but I can understand why she might be interested in a story where a mother gets back her child for half the year after thinking her lost forever.
Minor fragments, sure, but their music is true and unforced.Perhaps because of their abrupt, elliptical nature, both of these short dramas lend their mythic subjects a sense of internalised panic that overpowers any moral or seasonal readings - first the world is bearable, then it isn't, then it might be again.Hey, I can relate!
Prosperine And Midas, written by Mary Shelley and Percy, was overall okay. I still have yet to read "Frankenstein" from her yet, so hopefully it'll be pretty good....Other than that, this story was okay....
This was Mary’s attempt at writing a play, but it just screamed Percy all over it.
Beautiful language. Delightful stories.
