https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/871835.Highland_Velvet
4 stars!!I enjoyed book 2 in the Velvet saga a lot more than the first one – likable English alpha male hero, feisty yet vulnerable Scottish heroine, and an engaging, attention-grabbing story set in the beautiful Highlands.
This book picks up where we last saw Stephen in book 1 – after making sure his sister-in-law Judith is okay he’s now three days late to his wedding to Bronwyn, a proud and stubborn Scottish lass who’s the head of her clan.
In historical times, men were always considered superior to women so it really humbled me to see Stephen making efforts to understand and know Bronwyn and her Scottish ways.
In a brilliant bid to improve cross-border relations, King Henry of England has kidnapped the heroine and is forcing her to marry one of his subjects.
When she reveals that he should take her clan name once they're married because this demonstrates the necessary respect for her people and is good diplomacy, he refuses unequivocally.
In self defence, our heroine orders her dog to defend her self.
Not content with sexually assaulting our heroine, our hero physically assaults her dog.
But our hero feels no remorse for animal abuse because once again he's transfixed by the magnificence of our heroine's stupendous breasts.
Sure, I didn't meet a lot of English men who became Scottish and wore a kilt, but I wanted a man to love me fiercely.
Stephen loved Bronwyn...and she didn't even deserve it.Bronwyn is fierce and determined.
Bronwyn is sickened to learn that the English king wants an English man (of his choosing) by her side as a husband.
She must marry her enemy, so it's no surprise she's hardly jumping for joy at meeting her husband to be...and...he's three days late.Historical romances have changed a lot over the years.
My acceptance of accuracy over romantic fairytales has changed my expectations.
Forced into marriage to the English nobleman Stephen Montgomery, Scotswoman Brenna MacArran, the leader of her clan, vows to make his life miserable.While many of Deveraux's heroes in the Velvet Series had their bad moments, particularly Gavin, and to a lesser extent Miles and Raine, in "Highland Velvet" Stephen Montgomery was the stuff girlish dreams are made of.
Stephen was kind and loving to his sister-in-law, Judith, always taking her side whenever Gavin preferred his evil mistress.
He was a real nice guy, the kind of man any woman would be happy to have in real life.
I didn't really like this one since it was so long and the heroine got on my nerve so much.
I just wanted to slap her all through the novel.
She complained a lot and wanted Stephan to become something he was not even though the poor man tried she still didn't like him and always insulted him which made me wonder how a guy like Stephan can love such an annoying and selfish women.
I just hated this novel it just got me mad at her stupidness and stuborness.
God I just hate her character so much :(
There were times, particularly in the 1st half of the book where I would have liked to have slapped Bronwyn.
I'll have to admit to finding it a bit squicky when you have an older hero and someone younger than the modern 'age of consent' in a historical, even though I know it was common practice for women to be wed much younger than that.
She does grow up quite a bit over the course of the story though - thank heavens.Stephen was a very loveable hero and a great guy.
dosta lijepih opisa Škotske i njenog naroda i njihovih osobina, ali pored toga ništa posebno....ovaj put Jude me nije uspjela potpuno oduševiti kao u prvom dijelu Baršunasto obećanje.
I liked the story but i hated Bronwy..she was a real pain in the a..... ,and for me she's the one who ruins all the fun.
If I were Bronwyn I'd react the same way and because Stephen's jealousy blinded him, he refused to see the other side of the coin – talk about conflicts.I've noticed Jude Deveraux really writes extremely unreasonable heroines whenever their resisting the heroes of the story, but lust comes easily.
I gave this a four because I liked the story, the characters had a chance to redeem themselves, but I hated the minimal amount of love scenes – they're always hurried and have little detail.
Her heroes are usually just edgy enough to be considered medieval a**holes, but they more than likely redeem themselves, and her heroines have spunk, even when they sometimes can go either way: too submissive or too OTT.In this story, Bronwyn, the heroine, was kind of OTT and TSTL.
Plus, I liked the hero most of the time.
Though her husband added insult to injury in his first impression, Bronwyn irritatingly beat her chest about her clan, hertitle as The McArrin, and her hatred of the English.
Plus, the narrator wasn't bad.It was an entertaining story until you get to the part when Bronwyn does something stupid again and Stephen is like MIA for way-too-long.
She's irritating as fuck.The hero is just as bad - this book was written in the 1980s and you can definitely tell even though it's a historical setting.
The hero doesn't initially listen to heroine's attempts to enlighten him on her concerns about her clan because he's too busy trying to get her to have premarital sex even though he just met her and they are getting married in a matter of days.
Then on their wedding night she resists his advances and when that doesn't work she scratches him in her attempts to stab him with a knife.
This book is really a 3 but I am giving the extra star to Stephen.
I liked him as a hero and he's less annoying than his brother, Gavin.
She started out as an annoying Gavin who easily believed someone else and then she was just angry and dramatic and just stupid at times.
I really disliked her for 3/4s of the book.
At the ends, she started redeeming herself.
I thought the ending was a bit odd since I could not understand how useless the brothers could be.
In any case, in the last 10 pages, I got over my strong dislike of Browyn.
Read this years ago.
Bronwyn annoyed me with her immaturity and unfair treatment of Stephen.
It wouldn't have been so bad if Bronwyn had actually grown by the novel's end, but I don't remember that happening.On the other hand, I had a crush on the delicious Stephen.
Be my book boyfriend, please?
I loved how he could be brave and kind, yet also a be a fierce warrior.
What's more, his love for and patience with Bronwyn never seemed to waver despite her antics.
The best Montgomery brother in the series by far!
4 stars for Stephen1 star for Bronwyn3 stars for the romance
note to self: avoid due to heroine
I disliked the h.
1 star for Stephen I loved him. But I'm very disappointed this is by far the most annoying and least mature heroine I have ever read. I really wwanted to finish the book but I couldn't.

i am sorry, but I must say : It is completely and utterly CRAP.
It's a very readable romance novel, set in Scotland, a bit earlier than the other romance books I've read on my latest, on-going spree (in the time of Henry VII, if I'm not wrong).
I didn't like how she makes Stephen change so thoroughly (although he needed a reality slap for sure), whereas she herself doesn't change a bit.In the last 50 pages or so, the story veers into a direction I wouldn't associate with a romance novel.
It becomes pretty brutal and although I felt conflicted about it, I decided it worked well in the context and I would like to read more of the Velvet series.
At the first, the book was going well and then the second half seemed way too rushed. Also seems like the heroine and hero never learn to communicate with each other - but yet by the end they trust one another.
Even though I hate main character, it was interesting and enjoyable
The story started out great, I love how Stephen and Bronwyn met.
I also love their banter, but somehow along the way, it was starting to piss me off, especially the heroine.After reading book 1, my opinion of Stephen is somewhat like Gavin since he is a warrior.
I was expecting something would happen to him and that's when she's realize her love for him but nope, it wasn't tackled anymore.
(hide spoiler)]I actually enjoyed reading more about Morag and how she communicates with Bronwyn because she only says what is the truth.
But she did accurately reflect the historical type of women far more than Brownwyn.If you want something light, that is far removed from what historically Britain was like during this era then this romantic read has all the best ingredients.
If you're a stickler for accurate-ish historical content, articulate writing style and dialogue that actually resembles how UK (both scots and english people spoke during that era) then do not read any historical romances (particularly those written by Americans).
But a good book if you want dashing, passionate sparkling historical romance with big characters and a dramatic love story.
Another great book in the Montgomery series with many twist and turns, ups and downs and great make up sex since the H/h were always fighting.
I really didn't like the heroine at the beginning of the book, she was filled with too much animosity towards Stephen- almost too strong and noble.
I loved Stephen though, he was always trying to win her over even by sacrificing all of his beliefs and loyalties; dressing, fighting, and talking like the Scots, but still keeping all of his chivalrous/alpha qualities.
Very similar in style to the previous books in the series.
My first-ever romance novel.Truly enjoyed this one when I was young, early 20's.My tastes have changed so much through the years--who knows what I'd think if I read this series now. Another consideration is that, at the time, I hadn't much experience in reading any contemporary novels at all, of any genre, so I didn't really have a good basis for comparison in assigning value to them. But, that all said, I do remember absolutely  loving  Highland Velvet back then, so much so that I re-read it a
My first-ever romance novel.Truly enjoyed this one when I was young, early 20's.My tastes have changed so much through the years--who knows what I'd think if I read this series now.
Another consideration is that, at the time, I hadn't much experience in reading any contemporary novels at all, of any genre, so I didn't really have a good basis for comparison in assigning value to them.
Highland Velvet back then, so much so that I re-read it a few years later (and still loved it).Highland Velvet was my favorite of the series, with Velvet Song coming in as runner-up.
I usually love her books but I found myself irritated with the characters in this novel.
I also didn't like how eventually she relieved how selfish she was (which I assumed was Steven's point) she apologized to him and he told her she was silly, and not selfish at all.
Like what?!?
Then what was the point you were trying to drive home for the entire first half of the novel dude!?!
Anywho, I will probably skip over the remaining books in this series until I calm down and perhaps return back to it at a later date.
Although I didn't like this one as much as Velvet Promis, I did enjoy Stephen and Bronwyn's story: she kind of grated on my nerves, never believing him, and at the end, I was pissed off with Stephen, who acted like an utter ass... I didn't really see the point in her captivity at the end, but it might have been to build a storyline for the next two books..All in all, it was diverting, and I loved the fact that she wasn't some meek apathetic heroine:-)
Epic BR with my girl Feifei
I usually avoid romance novels, but the characters and setting of this one caught my attention and it does have some good chapters about loyalty and trust.
