https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35924499-our-house
Our female protagonist, forty-two-year-old, Fiona Lawson is heading down her street and sees what looks like someone carrying items into her house.
But she’s not…two moving men are clearly walking down HER path, taking things into HER house.She sees a woman who she thinks must be a friend of her estranged husband, Bram.
The house is empty…well except for the stranger’s things being moved in.
Prior to this, Fiona and her soon to be ex-husband, Bram have been sharing custody of their boys, as well as their house at 91 Trinity Avenue.
It’s a fairly new and unique way of doing things.
Well actually no it isn't a mistake, and she desperately needs to contact her estranged husband Bram - problem is, Bram is nowhere to be found, and not only that, but their two boys Harry and Leo aren't where they should be either!Well goodness me, what a roller coaster ride of a story this is, and what avenues it takes us down as deceit becomes the major player.
The characters speak to us through various mediums, ( Bram via Word document ) and in that respect we get to know much more about Bram's part in all this than Fi does.
We begin our story with Fiona (Fi) Lawson arriving home earlier than expected to see strangers seemingly moving furniture in and out of her home without understanding why.
We are given alternating POVs between Fi and the husband she is currently separating from, Bram.
Not just are we given alternating POVs but the formatting of those views changes as well.
I really enjoyed the alternating points of view but I will say the commentary from the viewers and their tweets grew tiresome and felt unneeded.
I absolutely LOVED "our house" by Louise Candlish - I couldn't put it down, couldn't stop thinking about it - it was truly addictive, compelling and hypnotic.
What has Bram hidden from her – and what has she hidden from him?I enjoyed reading Fiona's recollection of the story through a podcast and Bram's through a letter/word document interspersed with the events as they happened.
I will definitely be reading more by this brilliant author again, as far as I'm concerned Louise has reached the dizzy heights of exceptional psychological suspense with professionalism, creative imagination and tremendous storytelling.
I recently joined a Twitter discussion where a very outspoken literary agent was asserting that reviewers should NEVER tag an author with a bad review because it’s “rude” and because these authors have already had countless people critiquing them and “professional editors” editing them.
Literally, my mind started wandering by page 60 as I started calculating how many paragraphs of text I’d just written that really could have been removed from my life altogether.All in all, the premise of Louise Candlish’s Our House is phenomenal, the execution is mediocre if not terrible in parts, and the aside bits nearly drove me mad.
This wasn't a bad read; the cover is inviting, the premise is brilliant, and there was even a nice twist thrown in, so I did enjoy this overall.
It could just be that I was in a funk when I picked this up and needed something a little more fast paced for the moment, but I felt the narrative was repetitive and that we were reading the same scenes again and again, which caused me to struggle for a bit.
Overall, the majority has raved about this one and I think it's worth picking up to decide if you enjoy it for yourself.
It’s the perfect arrangement—the boys get a stable environment, and Fi and Bram get to keep their perfect, just-out-of-reach home.And then one day, Fi arrives home to see another family moving into her house.
As the details unfold, Fi realizes that she has become the victim of a crime most can only imagine, and the only way to hope to find justice means she’ll tell her story to the world…ReflectionI loved the story-telling mechanisms that Candlish uses in this book to keep the pace moving and the story fresh.
The book begins the day Fi arrives home to see another family moving into her house.
4.5 Stars Filled With Madness 🌟🌟🌟🌟.5🎵Father wears his Sunday bestMother's tired she needs a restThe kids are playing up downstairsSister's sighing in her sleepBrother's got a date to keepHe can't hang aroundOur house, in the middle of our streetOur house, in the middle of ourOur house it has a crowdThere's always something happeningAnd it's usually quite loudOur mum she's so house-proudNothing ever slows her downAnd a mess is not allowed....🎵 -Madness-Our House 1982Fiona was certainly house proud, but whether or not she liked a mess she certainly found herself in the middle of one...
Going out of her way to be fair in regards to her cheating husband, aware of his love for his sons, she had agreed to share custody, and to retain the family home.
So how and why could this happen?Secrets, intirgue, and a format using a television show and Twitter to tell the story.
We sleep hear from the husband in alternating chapters.
Plus, hearing the story from both viewpoints created much unwelcome repetition.
Never felt any affiinity to the characters either, so I ended up thinking this was good, okay, but not more.This was a sisters read, one in which we had various responses.
No spoilers here.This is at least the second book that I’ve read where parts were written as though they are on a podcast, the other being “Are You Sleeping” by Kathleen Barber and did end up enjoying that book.
I got irritated with the book at times.The main characters Fi and Bram Lawson are quite unlikable.
Their actions didn’t display that love and concern.There is another very sad, very important story going on at the same time.
Many of you may be younger, or just enjoy reading a book with a more up to date vibe to it and this might be just perfect for you!I received an ARC of this novel from the publisher through Netgalley.
3.75 Stars (rounded up)Imagine walking down your street to find someone else moving into your home.
Fiona’s terrifying discovery gets even worse when she tries and fails to get a hold of her estranged husband, Bram, only to find that his phone has been shut off and that he’s MIA.
Getting to the bottom of it will make your head spin, it did mine!
A buddy read with Kaceey, so happy we read this together!Thank you to Edelweiss, Penguin Publishing Group and Louise Candlish for an ARC of this novel in exchange for an honest review.
Published on Edelweiss and Goodreads on 7.8.18.
Sorry, kilometers.Fiona and Abraham Lawson have it all: well-paying jobs, a beautiful house in a posh London neighborhood, and two lovely kids.
Supposedly.Louise Candlish formatted this novel in an intriguing way: Fiona's narrative unfolds via her participation in a podcast that highlights the stories of victims.
Either way, Fiona didn't know the house would be sold, and he's going to tell us why.
Our House might not have flipped me on my head as much as I'd like, but it definitely challenged my thinking on persecution, redemption, and what constitutes a crime in the first place.Thanks to NetGalley and Berkley for this ARC.
I was hooked after the first chapter, and I could feel the tension jumping off the page.I thought it was a brilliant premise.
Just the thought of that is enough to make my heart race.
Fiona will tell her story through a crime podcast and her husband, Bram tells his side through a typed word document.
I really did enjoy both characters.A wonderful, detailed plot and a good twist was not enough to keep the story from drowning in a repetitive narrative and somewhat tedious pace.
I did figure out the twist, but I enjoyed being shocked as soon as I figured it out (if that makes any sense)!
Though Bram and Fiona are separated they have been maintaining a custody arrangement that allows one of them to stay with the children in the house on different days through out the week while the other stays at an apartment.
Fiona begins to realize what a mistake she has made in suggesting this arrangement as the day progresses and she is unable to reach Bram or locate their children.
Now the one thing that peeved me, the fact that it gets revealed that Merle is the one Bram slept with because it didn't feel foreshadowed.
She madly calls her husband, Bram, but his cellphone is no longer in service.
And from here on out, Fi's life will no longer be in service as well.Louise Candlish creates a mindboggling storyline that follows the lives of Fi and Bram Lawson who have separated after his infidelity.
They have strategized a temporary custody module for their two young sons called "bird's nest" in which each parent takes turns living in an outside apartment and rotating residence in the family home so the boys will have stability.
I would like to thank them and Louise Candlish for the opportunity.
TWO STARSI would never (in a million years) call this book a thriller.
If you enjoy a light read with a little mystery OUR HOUSE is the book for you.
I love layered characters with personality disorders.
I love mood.
So, I don't like this book.
Louise Candlish is a gifted writer and she did draw me into the book immediately.
BORING.
BORING.
BORING.Ugh. Sorry to report this.
I realize my opinions are on the jaded side and I accept this book is not for me.
The book hits 🇺🇸 shelves on August 7, 2018.
3.75⭐This book started out with a bang! Grabbed me right away. I only wish it could have held this intensity throughout. Midway I found it becoming repetitive and I just wanted the story to move on. Bram and Fiona are estranged, though they continue to share their home for the sake of their children. Only... they don’t actually coexist in the home. With a completely different take on parenting, they take turns staying in the home with the kids. Strange... but ok!?🤷🏻♀Only when Fi comes home early
Midway I found it becoming repetitive and I just wanted the story to move on.
Bram and Fiona are estranged, though they continue to share their home for the sake of their children.
they don’t actually coexist in the home.
How could another couple be staking claim to her home?One bad decision (after another) and the desperation that follows.The premise hooked me.
The first third had me glued to the pages as the story unfolded from both Bram and Fi’s POV, delivered in the most unique formats.
After somewhat of a stall midway you’re dragged back to an ending that...
This is done by Fi telling her side as a podcast complete with comments from the peanut gallery as I liked to refer to them or better known as the random internet viewers and then Bram's side is told through a letter he had written.
What couple have possibly led to such a huge mistake being made with these people thinking they had a right to be in her personal space??So then readers are taken back to be given a better look into Fi and Bram's marriage or separation really.
Then imagine walking home one day to see a moving truck parked out front.
Our House is told both Fi and Bram's point of view but in different formats.
She tells her side of the story and the reader quickly learns why the couple are getting divorced and the events occurring from Fi's POV.
I think this would be a good book for books club as there are some interesting things to discuss - birds nest parenting/divorce/home-sharing, deceit, lies, the old "what would you do if this happened in your life" or "what would you do differently" questions, the ending, the twists, etc.*Traveling Sisters readThank you to Berkley Publishing Group and NetGalley who provided me with a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
I REALLY wanted to love this one because let's just talk about THAT cover.
in love with it!What a fantastic premise to this story...
talk about anxiety attack 101 lol.So, unfortunately this thriller fell extremely flat for me.
I was pretty bored and the story just lost me.
I was hoping and praying SOMETHING would grab me back into the story...
The story was well written but it just didn't have enough juice to the smoothie.
I can definitely see why readers may enjoy this one but I really like my dark, mysterious, on edge kind of thrillers with disturbing guts and characters.
OUR HOUSE is a creative domestic thriller, about a wife, a husband, and their obsession with their fabulous and expensive home.
When their marriage crumbles, they decide on "bird's nest custody" of their children, where the parents take turns living in the house so their sons' lives are minimally disrupted.
Yeah, but wasn't it really about their love of the house?Anyway, Fiona comes home one day and is shocked to discover another family moving into their house.
I guess that's up to the reader to decide.Disclosure: I received a copy of this book from the publisher through NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
Louise Candlish does a great job here creating a different angle to a domestic suspense with a plot that revolves around a house.
At times the house becomes the center of the story and we start to see just how connected our main character Fiona is to her home.
The house itself starts to become a character I started to connect with Louise Candlish adds just the right amount of drama to leave us questioning Fiona’s actions and creating a little ourselves for her in our discussion.
We appreciated that she kept the drama down while still creating enough tension and suspense to keep the story moving forward for some of us.
There is nothing that I love more than a good noir read and Our House, by Louise Candlish, is domestic noir at its finest.Fiona “Fi,” arrives home from a trip to find her house is being occupied by a new couple and her kids are missing!
In the end, there is a twist – not one for the sake of twisting – but something we, as readers, should have figured out from the clues but I suspect most, like me, do not and will not see this coming.
Our House is one fabulous book for readers of noir fiction, especially if you like a darker domestic tale.
Fiona (Fi) Lawson thought the worst thing to happen to her was her husband Bram's infidelity and their subsequent separation.
Now Bram has disappeared and Fi is unable to find him just when she needs him t help unravel this mystery.Fiona's story told through a popular podcast called 'The Victim', is interspersed with notes from a document written by Bram filling in the gaps of how this nightmare came about.
The story is tense and gripping and overshadowed with menace resulting in an excellent psychological suspense that draws the reader in.
It takes getting to the very end of Our House to understand its cleverness, but it is clever.
Our House tells the alternating stories of Bram and Fiona.
Until Fiona comes home one day when it is her turn to live in the house, and new owners are moving in.
There are a couple of good twists, especially the one at the very end.
You have to be prepared for a fairly long read but I thought Candlish did a good job of pulling me along and surprising me.
When fortyish Londoner Fiona Lawson catches her handsome husband Bram with another woman, in the children's playhouse no less, that's it!
The shared custody of the house (and boys) seems to be working well until Fiona returns from a brief getaway with her new boyfriend and observes a shocking sight.
Fiona was away for only a short time, so Bram had to empty the entire house in a single day - to allow the Vaughans to take ownership before Fiona returned.
And my house wasn't nearly as grand as the Lawson place.)The story is related in dual narratives, by Fiona and Bram.
The story goes back and forth between the wife who has no idea what is going on and her estranged husband who might be keeping a secret or two.While I liked the idea of the book it was not an "edge of my seat, stay up until 2 am to finish" type of read.
After finishing the book it still feels like the character of Bram, the husband, was not fully developed.
The ending was the best part of the book although I might be in the minority with that opinion.
I was under no obligation to post a review and all views expressed are my honest opinion.
Imagine arriving at your home and finding other people moving in.
After the initial shock you decide to talk to these people, clearly, they must be confused, after all, this is your house, where you've lived for years with your family.This is how the novel begins and what follows is a chilling story of deception, secrets, and lies.The story is told in alternating points of view and takes place in an affluent London neighborhood.
Our discussions made my experience more enriching and interesting*
Surely your soon to be ex husband with whom you share the house and co-parent your two children using a 'birds-nest' arrangement might know what is going on, if only you could get a hold of him!
Where is he and where has he taken your children?This is the predicament Fiona finds herself in, as we get to read from her perspective via a podcast for The Victim, where women share their stories of being hurt and betrayed and listeners get to comment.
Fiona Lawson arrives in South London to find moving trucks and strangers moving into her house.
She immediately tries to contact her estranged husband, Bram, but his phone has been disconnected.
Fi decided to end her marriage after repeated indiscretions by her husband.
Their split was amicable and they decided to co-parent their two boys while maintaining their house.
Given their past, Fiona lacks a clear motive for Bram’s actions.
She decides to dig deeper into his past to unlock clues about his disappearance.This was a twisty novel by Louise Candlish which is presented with alternating points of view from each spouse.
Our House kept me engaged well past my bedtime!
