https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33600.Shantaram
Like Marmite, or Vegemite - another Australian export - you either loved this book or hated it.
He was an escaped convict from an Australian prison and I bet his fellow prisoners and warders must have sighed with relief to no longer be victims of this self-righteous man's endless burble of cod-philosophy, 'deep' insights into other people, and general, overweening self-love.
Of course, if you are in the majority of the raters of this book, you wouldn't agree with this review at all.
I kept thinking all those readers, those bright and entertaining reviewers out there, must be able to see something I can't.
My god. What an incredible load of drivel this is. Though there is room in the world for large stories largely told, Gregory David Roberts' self-aggrandazing pseudo-autobiography teems with ludicrously bad prose, characters so flat I'd like to use them to keep water off my bathroom floor, dimwitted philosophy, and self-love. I quite literally had to stop reading from embarassment at the sex scenes ("my body was her chariot and she rode me into the sun"? ye gods), and repeatedly found myself saying, "No, actually", at Roberts' increasingly idiotic turns of simile and metaphor even outside that context.Absolute drek.
Poorly-written nonsense which is gathering critical acclaim from people who probably read one book a year.
At one point - during a scene when the narrator is looking at a river - he ACTUALLY writes: 'I was thinking of another river.
The river of the heart.'I do not have time in my life for this sub-Danielle Steel horseshit.EDIT: About ten years on I still keep getting activity on this review.
I didn't like the book but that's no reason to be such a pompous tool.
I'll leave it up here as both historical record and a warning: stuff you write when you're younger may make you cringe a decade on.
I love this book, and yes it's massive but I think I've read it 3 times.
"The world keeps trying to win me back," she said, "but it doesn't work.
When we get older - when the steel door slams shut, in one way or another - we know that suffering is measured by what's taken away from us.""Guilt is the hilt of the knife that we use on ourselves, and love is often the blade; but it's worry that keeps the knife sharp, and worry that gets most of us, in the end." "At first, when we truly love someone, our greatest fear is that the loved one will stop loving us.
Then I had to fish it out and clean the deluge of toilet water all over the place created by this tremendously large and heavy piece of crap book.
This sacrifices any possibility of creating an intersting, dynamic or realistic main character.
Maybe all that is true, but hey there main character, weren't you a little frustrated and embarrassed when everyone in town lined up to watch you take a crap every morning?
There are so many amazing books about India.
I loved it and couldn't put it down.There are a few notable things about this book.
One is that it's billed as a novel but I'm 90% certain that these things all actually happened to the author.
Perhaps because he is such a great writer, all of the characters are well developed and you find yourself wanting to know what happens with each of them--and there are a lot.
I honestly couldn't name all the characters he describes in detail--more than probably any other book I've read.
It's amazing and it will be one of the best books you've ever read.
Lin's adventures in Bombay are apparently based on humble author Gregory David Roberts's exploits playing savior and mafiosi there while in hiding after a daring escape from an Australian prison (thanks for a fellow goodreader for correcting me ---I had previously written New Zealand).
Along with the wisdom, most of the novel consists of the protagonist vacillating between moral extremes as either a savior of street and slum or a thug loyal to a Bombay mafia don.
Lin insists upon showing readers that he has connections in all of Bombay's divergent milieus --- from Bollywood, to the slums, to the mafia, to the expats and the heroin dens, LinBaba knows all.
It made him sound like a racist Disney character or like the golum from LOTR) to the cool and smooth Iranian gangster (if you like ridiculous Bollywood movies, this is the book for you!) In typical fashion, the white guy is the hero of nearly every scene, a la Patrick Swayze in City of Joy, as if people who lived in slums sit around waiting for a white hero to come and save them.BUT there were things I liked about the book (aside from the sweet friend who lent it to me).
Have you ever been in a relationship that you were just done with but you were hoping they would end it and so you suffer through, day after day, rolling your eyes every time that person does that THING that you HATE and, yah, it was kind of fun at first but if they keep doing that THING that you HATE, you are going to end up saying something really mean and you really don't want to do that because they mean well and are nice but they just drive you up the wall?You know what you need to do?
A nightmare is when the wish and fear are the same exact thing.""Poverty and pride are devoted blood brothers until one, always and inevitably, kills the other.""Fear and guilt are the dark angels that haunt rich men.""There's no meanness too spiteful or too cruel when we hate someone for all the wrong reasons.""There is no act of faith more beautiful than the generosity of the very poor.""Justice is a judgment that is both fair and forgiving...
As the novel opens, the reader is introduced to Lin, a man who has escaped his Australian jail and arrives in Bombay, hoping to hide in India's vast populace.
His living in the slums of Bombay prove not only eye opening, but life changing in ways that the reader can only understand by being enveloped in the larger narrative.
A must read by any and all who want to offer up all they feel they know, only to finish the book and question everything.Set in the early to mid-1980s, the story weaves together a collection of vignettes within Lin's Indian life, while also telling an overarching story of change and progress.
And it was; until he gets so wrapped up in the history of goats/camels/horses and the kalishnekov rifle, that you feel like he's holding one to your head daring you abandon the 700 pages you've already read.I had been told that it was a great way for expat citizens in India to reflect on their place in the diverse culture of the land.
It actually was a great way, as an expat citizen in India, to reflect on my place in the diverse culture of the land.
The New York Times nailed Shantaram when they said that it is "nothing if not entertaining." The problem is trying to find what else it is.
The characters lack fullness and complexity, the narrator is absurd, and the language suffers the burden of passages so heavily cliched and saturated with bite-sized pseudo-philosophical tidbits as to reduce the novel to little more than a self-help book.
If the value of a book is to be judged by entertainment alone, Shantaram may be deemed by some to be worth the investment; just be prepared to knuckle down through some of the most excruciatingly horrid abuse of language I've seen in print for some time.
This book bugs.Of course, I knew that I could have defeated the stoned, terrifying swordsman with just my fists.
. Fortunately, my friends had given me a gigantic first-aid kit before I left, so I had enough medicine to cure the scores of burn victims.
.I was lonely and terrified in the huge crowd.
So I went up to the scariest person in the place and made friends with him .
This book would be a lot easier to take if it weren't for the bogus bio the author offers, which is clearly supposed to make gullible readers believe that this fantasy is somehow autobiographical.
I normally don't even think about this rule when I'm reading, but I started to realize about a third of the way through the book that almost everything I knew about the characters and the type of people they are I knew because I'd been told that is the way they were by the narrator.
I think my own feelings towards the book are sort of like the enigmatic character Karla's feelings towards other people in the novel, I like it but you can't get me to say I love it.
I just have the feeling Gregory David Roberts is pretty far up his own ass and I'm not sure I'm buying what he's selling.What's making it hard to just sit back and enjoy this book is Robert's description of specific experiences - usually ones outside the usual North American experience (staying in a remote village, the Standing Babas, living in a slum, etc.) seem a bit far fetched to me.
- He escaped and skipped Australia, leaving a wife and daughter behind, intending to make his way to Europe but after a stopover in Bombay (Mumbai) he decided to settle in the island city.- After being befriended by some of the locals he lived in the Navy Nagar slum for a period and also spent some time living with a family in a remote village.All of the above feature in the book, and a good deal more too.
2017 Recipient of my Poison Apple --- Looks juicy on the surface, but reading just 100 of more than 900 pages of the blech, gaudy, flowery-to-the-nth prose is poisonous (see below) "Her eyes pale with moonlight. Her eyes the green of water lilies after the rain. Her long hair black as forest river stones. Her hair that was like holding the night itself in the wrap of my fingers. Her lips starred with incandescent light, lips of camellia petal softness, warmed with secret whispers."****"grieving
What seems a fascinating story to be told in around 400 pages becomes a perfect illustration of both the reason for the writing maxim "show don't tell," and what happens when a first-time writer publishes a novel without the benefit of a decent editor.For example, instead of showing through actions and dialogue how he developed feelings for his main love interest, a Swedish/American named Karla, and what she did to make him love her (umm, seems to me nothing but being beautiful), he must describe in cringing, gushing prose how much he loves her: over the moon and larger than any star in our universe--every friggin' time he sees her.

I realised that I'd already 'reviewed' this work by way of a reply I'd made to a recommendation (by Andy S). So I've simply copy/pasted that same reply here: I can understand the 'Marmite' love-it-or-hate-it axiom; the book has literary mood swings.I read Shantaram a while back. A sprawling novel favoured by backpackers the world over. It polarises opinion; readers either love or hate it. It's overly self-righteous and puts you in mind of Walter Mitty, but the author has certainly suffered for his art, creating a novel that is difficult to ignore.
On the bottom of page 229: "And it was quiet, in those dark, thinking moments: quiet enough to hear sweat droplets from my sorrowed face fall upon the page, one after another, each wet circle weeping outward into the words fair...forgiving...punish...and save..."I give Shantaram 4.5 stars.
(forgiveness comes into thought): Good people have done wrong things....These same people have done GREAT things....An interesting life this man had!He needed to write a book...I needed to read it...Ask me if I cried?
However: for my friends who read this book...Come back and ask me....I'll tell you later!
I'm about 3/4 of the way through and this book needs to end now.Thought I'd hit the wall sooner, but the story pulls you along quite well for the most part.But my limit has been reached.
Yes, yes, you are fit and you know how to punch people.
It's the perfect fit for rusty's ego.This is a good story, told well for the most part.
10,000 unnecessary words?Maybe 'Linbaba' set upon them with a karate stance and plunged his poweful weapon-like fists into them while starring into their blazing crystal blue eyes filled with terror untill they relented and let him publish whatever he damn well wanted...?
I haven't enjoyed reading a book this much in a long time.
First he sets up a clinic in the slums and then he works for the Bombay mafia and in the meantime, he just has a way of describing people and life that is brilliant and endearing.
In the way of criticism, I think there are parts of the book that could have been edited and taken out and there are other parts that read more as a mystery novel or an adventure than a memoir.
Internationally, I think the book is gaining some steam.
And having finally turned the last page, I've figured out why this book is both highly recommended as well as painfully difficult to finish.The problem very simply is this - the first and last parts of the book are agonizingly sluggish, intentionally sentimental and overindulgent.
This is a book which should have been shortened by at least a hundred pages to keep to its 'gripping thriller' selling point.
However, it is the difficult-to-get-to middle of the book that makes it worthwhile.
On the surface, it is a story that is borderline trite - fugitive foreigner come to India and finds himself.
Everything about the book seems almost real.
Hideous purple prose, every plot twist signposted with clunking obviousness, padded out with pseudo-mystic 'philosophy', riddled with obscene poverty-licking and Orientalism. It's only use is as a barometer: view anyone who enjoyed this with suspicion.
I still have trouble imagining that a convict could write like this. The real question is posed to us by the fact of the book than the contents of the book. The contents are spectacular of course, but the fact of its existence and of the nature of the author for me is an indictment on society par compare.
The recurring themes of forgiving, choosing love over hate, recognizing each person's ability to change his fate, and "doing the wrong thing for the right reasons" can make this book read like a self-help book or confessional visit at times.
And you are not a good man until you earn the love, truly and freely, of a child in return."p.372 "And the love that opened in my heart seemed to drag the rest of my life behind it."p.584 "In my first knife fight I learned that there are two kinds of people who enter a deadly conflict: those who kill to live, and those who live to kill.
This is why!I started this book 10 years ago while on a trip to Mumbai.
Well, I did like it but I did not love it.For the good part, it is a ambitious adventure book with interesting facts about the Indian culture and it was mostly entertaining.
To me Shantaram was a pompous, self-absorbed prick who tried more than half of the book to look like such a wonderful person, some sort of “messiah” for the residents of Mumbai.
Also, for half of the book all the characters were wonderful, with no apparent defects.
I mean, even the criminals were loving, heartwarming philosophers which felt odd.
While I might have enjoyed the time the narrator spent navel-gazing(and the resulting philoso-fuckle--sorry students--one-liners he was so proud of)and smoking hash with the other expats in a cafe when I was a few years younger, those brief pages were well worth the trip through the slums and prisons of India, a country he paints to be so exotically enchanting and filled with people so beautiful and loving, despite the crime-filled underbelly he also depicts, that I can't imagine a more magical and exciting place on earth.
I was mesmerized by every page of the semi-autobiographical journey, from the escape from an Australian prison to the leper colony to the cholera-ravaged slum to the illegal passport headquarters to the Bollywood production sets to the frozen, war-torn Afghan mountains.
Когато четеш автобиографичен роман, няма как да избягаш от живота на автора му, да се абстрахираш и може би четенето на романа трябва да започне именно от неговия автор.Грегъри Дейвид Робъртс е наркоман и престъпник, който извършва 24 банкови обира с пистолет-играчка, преди да бъде заловен и да получи 19-годишна присъда в затвор с максимална степен на сигурност.
Разбирам защо много читатели са запленени от образа на главния герой – той предлага мотива за изкуплението, за това, че колкото и лош човек да си, винаги можеш да отидеш в Индия и да преживееш катарзис и просветление.Избягвам да пиша лошо за книгите, дори за тези, които не харесвам.
