https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/277190.The_Wrath_of_Mulgarath
تنتقل السيدة جريس لمنزل الخالة لوسيندا بعد انفصالها عن زوجها لتبدأ حياة جديدة ، فيكون السكن في هذا المنزل هو أفضل حل بالنسبة لها ولأبنائها، ولكن تحدث أمور كثيرة لا تصدق خصوصاً بعد عثور جارد على كتاب مُخبأ في مَخبأ سري.ربما يعتبر ما لخصته قليل جداً بالنسبة لخمسة أجزاء ولكن حقاً لا أريد افساد جمال السلسلة بذكر أحداثها. حسناً ستستمتعون بها جداً سلسلة خيالية رائعة لن تشعروا بالملل أبداً وأنتم تقرأونها، كما ستعيشون الكثير من المغامرات المشوقة مع جارد سايمون ومالوري.
ตัวรายตายงายมากจนนาตกใจ ฮาๆ (view spoiler)[แปลงรางเปนนกแลวโดนกินเฉยเลย (hide spoiler)] เรานีนังขำอยูนานกวาจะอานตอได สำหรับเลมนีเราชอบตอนจบ ลูซินดากับสไปเดอรวิก เราวาเปนตอนจบทีดูมีอะไรดี หลังจากหาเลมทีผานมาเราใหนำหนักหนังสือชุดนีพอๆกับนิทานกอนนอน เพราะทังปม ตัวละครและกอะไรอีกหลายๆอยาง มันไมหนักพอทีจะทำใหเราเรียกหนังสือชุดนีวาเปนนิยายไดเตมปากเตมคำเลย แตกถือวาเอามาอานตอนวางๆแกเบือไดดีจริงๆแหละ(view spoiler)[เมือแมของพีนองเกรซถูกจับตัวไป จาเรด ไซมอนและมัลลอรีจึงตองออกเดินทางมุงหนาสูอันตรายเพือตามหาแ
ตัวร้ายตายง่ายมากจนน่าตกใจ ฮ่าๆ (view spoiler)[แปลงร่างเป็นนกแล้วโดนกินเฉยเลย (hide spoiler)] เรานี่นั่งขำอยู่นานกว่าจะอ่านต่อได้ สำหรับเล่มนี้เราชอบตอนจบ ลูซินด้ากับสไปเดอร์วิก เราว่าเป็นตอนจบที่ดูมีอะไรดี หลังจากห้าเล่มที่ผ่านมาเราให้น้ำหนักหนังสือชุดนี้พอๆกับนิทานก่อนนอน เพราะทั้งปม ตัวละครและก็อะไรอีกหลายๆอย่าง มันไม่หนักพอที่จะทำให้เราเรียกหนังสือชุดนี้ว่าเป็นนิยายได้เต็มปากเต็มคำเลย แต่ก็ถือว่าเอามาอ่านตอนว่างๆแก้เบื่อได้ดีจริงๆแหละ(view spoiler)[เมื่อแม่ของพี่น้องเกรซถูกจับตัวไป จาเร็ด ไซม่อนและมัลลอรี่จึงต้องออกเดินทางมุ่งหน้าสู่อันตรายเพื่อตามหาแม่ของพวกเขาให้ทันเวลา ระหว่างทางสามพี่น้องได้พบกับก็อบลินและเมื่อมาถึงที่อยู่ของมุลการาธ เด็กๆก็ได้พบกับแม่และพ่อตัวปลอมของพวกเขาที่กลายร่างเป็นมุลการาธ เมื่อสามพี่น้องปราบมุลการาธลงได้แล้ว จาเร็ดก็ทำตามสัญญาที่ได้ให้ไว้กับพวกเอลฟ์ว่าเขาจะเอาหนังสือภาคสนามไปมอบให้ แต่พวกเอลฟ์ไว้ใจจาเร็ดให้เก็บหนังสือนั้นไว้กับตัว ส่วนป้าลูซินก้าก็คือพบกับพ่อของตัวเอง อาร์เธอร์ สไปเดอร์วิกในที่สุด เขาตัดสินใจที่จะกลายเป็นเถ้าถ่านเมื่อเขาเยื้องย่างออกมาจากดินแดนแห่งเอลฟ์เพื่อที่จะพบหน้าลูกสาวของเขาเป็นครั้งสุดท้าย (hide spoiler)]
About 30 minutes ago I finished the last book of The Spiderwick Chronicles.
He sees Lucinda hugs her, but he can't touch the ground or else he will turn to ash.
He says his time is over touches the ground, turns to ash, and whirls up to heaven.
I gave this book five stars because it has made me want to read it all the time and can't wait to read whenever I can.
Over all this series has been my favorite books of all time and can't wait to read Beyond The Spiderwick Chronicles.
Sin dudas, el mejor de la saga.Este libro tiene toda la acción y aventura que necesitaba.
A pesar de que no me convenció mucho como terminó esa "batalla final", entiendo y acepto que es por estilo y el público a quien esta dirigido.Sigo pensando que todos los libros pudieron formar un solo libro completo, en lugar de varios libritos cortos que parecían capítulos, pero claro está, fue decisión de los autores.
No niego que me arrepiento de no haber leído estos libros mas joven, se que los habría disfrutado mas.
De igual forma me gustó mucho esta saga, perfecta para quienes buscan una lectura ligera y entretenida.
So, I finished all the books and watched the movie yesterday.
The movie used books 1-3 and 5.
As always the books are always better than the movie.
With that said...
I have to admit I enjoyed the movie as well.
It rarely happens that I can like both, but this was one of those occasions.
The movie...
without giving away too much, allows you to see more of the faeries than the book touched upon.
It also changes a few things here and there as well.
In the end you have a good book series as well as a good movie.
I know someone who's an inveterate non-reader, you can count the number of books they've ever read on your fingers (and not even using all of them); 5 of said books are these books. For that alone this whole series would deserve 5 stars.In this conclusive instalment we have the final confrontation with the orc and the story of the Grace family gets satisfactorily wrapped up. It was especially nice meeting again many characters introduced in the previous books.I wish I had read it as a child, but not because it wasn't perfectly enjoyable even as an adult :)
وانتهت المغامرة الرائعة وكم كنت سعيدة بحصولي على هذه السلسلة.. ليتهما يصدران المزيد من الجمال كهذا ^_^
3.5 stars
This was the final installment in the Spiderwick Chronicles and overall I was very pleased.
Jared faces some of the inner struggles that we have seen in the previous novels and finally faces down some of his demons.
The sibling relationship between Jared, Simon, and Mallory continues to be a highlight of the series.
We get a lot of both Thimbletack and Hogsqueal in this final installment, which I appreciated.
Sure, it could have gone deeper and become lengthy middlegrade or young adult novels, but I think they are perfect as they are.
If you haven't tried this series I highly recommend them.
I can honestly say that this series is one that was really let down by the film adaptation.
If you’re someone who enjoyed the film then I really do suggest that you read the books to find out just how great they actually are rather than taking the film standpoint on it.The final book in the series is yet another fast mover, bringing the series to an end through the characters dealing with the creatures in a way that I will not be sharing with you (honestly, there is no point in saying too much and ruining it for you).
Supuestamente estas son historias para niños, pero he de decir que ha habido algún tema serio que sería difícil de explicar (no diré cuales, obviamente. No quiero spoilear). Pero dejando esto aparte, ha sido una bonita historia de hadas y ogros, que de vez en cuando se agradecen. Me ha gustado mucho como han unido el mundo "real" con la magia, y las ilustraciones en todos los libros han sido preciosas, y además ayudan a meterte en situación. En resumen ha sido, en general, una buena experiencia. Bastante recomendados si tienes un rato libre y quieres leer algo ligero.
What a great conclusion to the series! I really enjoyed this series. The fantasy angle was well developed and the story was fast paced but not rushed. The ending was perfect and bittersweet but I loved it. So good!! So glad I let my son read them!
A nice end to the series.
Akhirnya, bisa menamatkan kisah spiderwick. Makhluk-makhluknya aneh-aneh, sejak pertama si buat bingung dengan kebiasaan dari para makhluk anehnya.
Muy buena conclusión de saga, sigo opinando que todo pudo ser un libro solo se 500 páginas pero entiendo que fue así porque iba dirigido a un público joven que estaba haciendo sus primeros acercamientos a la lectura.De hecho estos seguramente van a ser los primeros libros que lean mis hijos(si es que tengo).Me gusta las diferencias con la película pero admito que también me gusta mucho el final que da la adaptación, son bastante parecidas así que lo van a disfrutar. ❤️
Not a bad conclusion to the series at all. I just wish the world could have been more fully explored and not limited to a backyard.
Ok, so, twelve-year-old me must have had the absolute WORST reading comprehension, because I remembered about 99.9% of these books WRONG in every way imaginable...except for the part with the pixies in the honey, which I guess goes to show what kind of child I was.Honestly I don't see why these couldn't have been one book?
Because I've seen books with an episodic nature like this, and I think it would have worked.
:PThat aside, these books were pretty cute and creepy (and shockingly dark at times!), so even though they aren't the BEST thing ever, they get my seal of approval.
"That would be overly kind to a goblin in a bind.
No, we'll set rats to nibble off your toes, pike out your eyes, and put them up your nose.
Your fingers we'll remove with dull scissors, and we'll wait until your confidence withers."(- Thimbletack) I really liked the whole series.
It's kinda funny as the first book I was like "Hmm..
I'm not sure.
I like the setting and I love faeries but just not sure." And ta-da!
I really enjoyed all of it.
The sibling bonding, the creatures (Thimbletack, Hogsqueal, Mulgarath) and characters.
I would love to watch the movie now.
muy bonita saga, se lee muy rápido y los seres fantásticos que aparecen son muy interesantes. Lo único malo es que todo va demasiado de prisa y se podría haber sacado mucho más, supongo que al ser un libro para niños era mejor de esta forma, pero me falto ese algo extra.
سلسلة خفيفة ومسلية، وتلفت الإنتباه من أول جزء إلى هذا الكتاب .. إستمتعت بها ❤
If I could rate the whole series altogether.
I would give it a total of 3.5.
The artworks though?
This is the final book in the Spiderwick Chronicles and was I impressed?
The world-building was great, the characters (humans and fey alike) are all fleshed out really well and each has a unique quality about them.I guess I wanted more.
I wanted the books to be longer.
I wanted the villain to be more menancing.
The whole  'take over the human realm'  thing is getting real old.
In conclusion, this is a good series if not above average.
I’ve mentioned this before but this is a really short series. Each of the books took me about 45 minutes to an hour to read. I thought this was a really good and creative story but with that being the case I would have liked to have seen the authors do more with it. In other words, make it longer. Granted, these books are aimed at people about  my age so I guess I can’t expect it to be too long. Overall, I really liked these books.
I’ve mentioned this before but this is a really short series. Each of the books took me about 45 minutes to an hour to read. I thought this was a really good and creative story but with that being the case I would have liked to have seen the authors do more with it. In other words, make it longer. Granted, these books are aimed at people about ¼ my age so I guess I can’t expect it to be too long. Overall, I really liked these books.
This was a fun quick series. It was captivating and although I would've liked more, I realise that it's a series for children, and not when the authors wrote it they never took into account that adults will also read and love this.This is a very good series to give to your child to read, or even to read to your child, because you will be enchanted!
It's a fun, quick series and I'm glad I finished it. I mostly read this one for a challenge, but it was funny and nice to read. I guess I'd recommend the series if you like fantasy and/or children's.
Read as part of #ReadKidsLitSolid ending, with room for far more adventures. Great job, kids! (and Thimbletack & Hogsqueal & Byron!) The ending was a teensy bit sad for certain reasons, but otherwise celebratory and full of contentment.
Good, brief little series. Geared towards younger readers. It was a pretty fun set of books. The only thing I didn't care for was the hobgoblin character...super annoying! What a pumpkin head that guy was.
I LOVEEE ITTT SO MUUUUUCH. IT WAS SO CUTE.
I'm thankful they finally got to the heart of the matter and put a stop to things. Bless them!
Ama Lucinda’yı tekrar görebildiği o sahne varya, beni bitirdi.
Ailemi bir daha görmemek üzere, elflerin tuzağına hiç düşer miydim?”Başından beri her cevabın Arthur’da olduğunu düşünmüşlerdi ama yanılıyorlardı.
Jared’tan bile daha çok sevdim onu.
Bazen Mallory ve Simon Jared’a hiç inanmadı, bazen ise çok desteklediler.
O yüzden bu sahne hoşuma gitti.
Helen’ın çocukları başka okula yazdırması da Lucinda’yı evlerine alması da çok hoşuma gitti.
Elflerin kitabı Jared’da bırakması hoşuma gitti.
Gerçi Jared yeni bir kitap yazabilirdi de ama neyse.
Yutanhoyrat’a gelince iyi bir kötü karakter değildi.
Kolay öldü bence ama baya komik öldü.
Sonuçta bir çocuk kitabı.
Çok ağlardım babasını arayan Lucinda’yı okusam.
Sin embargo, amé los juegos de palabras, las ilustraciones son preciosas, y los personajes están muy bien definidos.Me encantó también como las personalidades de los hermanos Grace son tan distintas pero a la vez complementarias para poder afrontar toda esta aventura.
Mi escena favorita fue ver a Jared por fin sentirse comprendido, y es que he sentido cierta pena por él toda la saga pues en él recae siempre la culpa de todo.Creo que esta historia es perfecta para todo aquel que ha soñado con el mundo de las hadas, quien sabe… tal vez, algún día encuentren un libro antiguo que hable de ellas…
