https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87425.Tintin_in_Tibet
Convinced that Chang has survived, Tintin leads his companions across the Himalayas to the plateau of Tibet, along the way encountering the mysterious Yeti.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1975 میلادیعنوان: تن تن در تبت جلد 20؛ نویسنده: هرژه؛ مترجم: خسرو سمیعی؛ تهران، یونیورسال، 1354، در 62 ص؛تن‌ تن در تبت بیستمین کتاب کمیک از مجموعه ی کتابهای مصور ماجراهای تن‌ تن و میلو است.
گفته شده که کتاب «تن‌ تن در تبت» محبوبترین داستان از سری ماجراهای تن‌ تن و میلو برای هرژه بوده است.
در این کتاب، تن‌ تن برای نخستین و آخرین بار از سری ماجراهای تن‌ تن و میلو با آدمهای بدذات مبارزه نمی‌کند.
I've been a Tintin reader -- and Hergé fan -- since I can remember; for many years, The Adventures of Tintin were the only comics I read.
Hergé's artistic innovations are well-documented: beautiful "clear line" artwork and blueprint-perfect backgrounds; complex, carefully plotted stories; hilarious characters and deft comedic timing.
In this story, Tintin, his faithful dog Snowy and loyal companion Captain Haddock search the remote mountains of Tibet for Tintin's good friend Chang.
One of the few Tintin adventures that really provides insight into the main character's emotions, this story mixes incredible visuals and riveting suspense with a rare tug at the heartstrings.
I had always tended to believe that it was the bumbling detectives, the Duponts, who were the clumsy and uncoordinated clowns and jesters of the Tintin series, but really, while they are most definitely and truly clown-like and inept to an extent and even to a large extent, Captain Haddock really is for all intents and purposes still miles and miles "above" the Duponts with his ever-present tendency towards buffoonery, not only physically, but verbally (especially considering that the Captain is also and generally much more consistently present in the Tintin series than the Duponts).
Βαθμολογία: 9/10Το 2016 διάβασα ένα κόμικ της σειράς ("Το σπασμένο αυτί") και το 2017 τρία ("Το μαύρο νησί", "Το σκήπτρο του Όττοκαρ" και "Το μυστικό του Μονόκερου"), αλλά για κάποιο λόγο δεν μπήκα στον κόπο να γράψω σχόλια για τις πολύ ωραίες και άκρως ψυχαγωγικές αυτές περιπέτειες του Τεντέν.
Τώρα, όμως, λέω να γράψω το κατιτίς μου για το "Ο Τεντέν στο Θιβέτ", γιατί πιθανότατα είναι το καλύτερο από τα οχτώ που έχω διαβάσει μέχρι στιγμής (ίσως μαζί με το "Ο κάβουρας με τις χρυσές δαγκάνες", που όμως διάβασα προ αμνημονεύτων ετών).
Firmly convinced that his friend Chang, has survived the plane crash in Nepal, Tintin, accompanied b
The early frames - capturing true-to-life shots of Nepal, for instance - are equally well done, but the cap must surely be Haddock's surreal dream sequence of playing chess with a nappy-wearing Calculus!One of the tropes that defines Herge's later work is his willingness to be realistic about the consequences of the adventures.
This hasn't always been the case, as in many stories he functions as light comic relief, so it is nice to see the dog being used as a plot point but without losing his sprightly characterisation.Other successes include the well-balanced portrayals of the Tibetan monks - humorous and yet earnest in turn; the hilarious shots of Haddock gradually falling behind the explorer's party; - and the frames with Tintin and Chang together at the end.
I was a devoted reader of Children’s Digest, which brought all kinds of interesting topics to me out on our small Canadian farm and serialized in the centre of each issue was The Adventures of Tintin.
I remember my excitement when I saw the advertisement for Tintin in Tibet and I learned a bit about the yeti.
But I had also received a renewal form, warning that my subscription was going to lapse before this new adventure got underway.
I was getting a little bit old for it anyway, but I did bitterly regret that I wouldn’t be able to read about Tintin and the yeti.
Arguably the best Tintin book, Herge reportedly wrote it when he was going through a deep, personal crisis with his wife.This time, the story does not involve an intricate and complex conspiracy, but a personal struggle, as Tintin and Captain Haddock go on an odyssey to Tibet to save a friend who was in a plane crash in the Himalayas.
The book has great artwork and plot: the Himalayas are almost realistically drawn, as well as the buildings, statues and monks of Tibet.
Herge is also said to have identified with the Yeti, the creature in the story.
Es la aventura de Tintín favorita del autor y probablemente la de la gran mayoría de seguidores.
En esta historia Tintín busca a su amigo Chang Chong-Chen, que según las autoridades, ha muerto en un accidente aéreo en el Himalaya.
Convencido de que Chang no ha fallecido, Tintín conduce a sus compañeros a través de la cordillera asiática hasta la meseta del Tíbet, mientras en el camino tienen un encuentro con el misterioso Yeti.En esta aventura explora los peligros de la escalada en los Himalayas, los monasterios budistas tibetanos y la verdad sobre el Yeti, comúnmente conocido como el "hombre de nieve abominable".
Adventure on the Roof of the World26 February 2012 A lot of people seem to like this one but I felt that it was a little lacking compared to Herge's previous two albums: The Calculus Affair and the Red Sea Sharks. This album sees Tintin and Captain Haddock travel to the remote country of Tibet in search of a friend of Tintin's who was on a plane that had crashed in the Himalayas. Now, I found it a little interesting that the plane Chang caught when he was travelling to Europe from China seemed t
Adventure on the Roof of the World26 February 2012	A lot of people seem to like this one but I felt that it was a little lacking compared to Herge's previous two albums: The Calculus Affair and the Red Sea Sharks.
This album sees Tintin and Captain Haddock travel to the remote country of Tibet in search of a friend of Tintin's who was on a plane that had crashed in the Himalayas.
Herge seems to have moved away from some of the styles in the older albums, particularly since the Thompson Twins were major characters in the early ones.
This is my dearest Tintin book, as I brought this all the way to my trip to China, Nepal and India! This would be a good traveling companion to Tibet, Nepal (Kathmandu and Bhaktapur) and India (New Delhi). Don't forget to pose with a Tibetanchorten, Tibetan prayer flags, Boudhanath stupa (with the eye!), old temple of Bhaktapur, and the one I have yet to visit: Everest Base Camp and Potala Place of Tibet.
Tintti saa kuulla, että hänen vanhaa ystäväänsä Tsangia kuljettanut lentokone on pudonnut Himalajan vuoristoon. Kaikkien matkustajien uskotaan kuolleen. Tintti näkee kuitenkin unen, jossa kiinalaispoika anoo apua "puoliksi hautautuneena lumeen, loukkaantuneena ja haavoittuneena".Niinpä sankarimme päättää lähteä kaukaiseen Tiibetiin etsimään ystäväänsä yhdessä uskollisen Milou-koiran ja vastahakoisen kapteeni Haddockin kanssa. Seikkailu on vaaroja täynnä, ja kaiken lisäksi vuorilla kerrotaan tarinaa hirveästä lumimiehestä...Vuonna 1960 ilmestynyt "Tintti Tiibetissä" (Otava, 2008) on kestänyt hyvin ajan hammasta. Seikkailu on jännittävä ja hauska tarina ystävyydestä, joka voittaa suurimmatkin esteet. Ei siis ihme, että monet pitävät albumia yhtenä kaikkien aikojan parhaista Tintti-tarinoista.
This is absolutely an adventure story, where Tintin sets out to save his friend Chang. I am under the impression that the world was busy about Tibet when he wrote this piece of art!
I will never get tired of Tintin stories, specially this great BBC dramatizations.
This is my favourite tintin book. It's so deep and enjoyable. A must read.
I once again let my brother convince me into reading another Tintin book!
In this comic, Tintin experiences emotions for the first time (at least for the first time I've read, haha)!
(Luckily, I didn't cry, because I never cry when I read novels-- except for one book, The Last Ever After, of all books).But this book takes you on an emotional journey of friendship, loss, and humour, specifically with Captain Haddock adding a bit of comic relief now and then (basically on every page-- I especially loved the scene when he zipped his beard up in his sleeping bag.
(hide spoiler)]All-in-all, it was a wonderful book that I'd recommend to anyone.Thanks to Bub for recommending this book-- I hope to read more Tintin books in the future!
Straightforward kids' adventure story, with plenty of action, humour and slapstick (provided by the accident-prone Captain Haddock!). All Himalaya-related elements make an appearance: sherpas, monks, blizzards, avalanches, mountain-climbing, echoes, yaks, the Yeti etc. I particularly liked the bit where Snowy got drunk on whisky and fell off the mountainside! Lovely artwork. Great to just reel off one of these as light relief between more serious books.
It was a refreshing change! Tintin was not solving crime or after some smuggler but he was saving a friend from a Yeti! Cool Tintin! Though the telepathic idea of communication was a bit "rolling-my-eyes" kind! :P But I loved the poor Yeti Sad that they did not say bye to him in a more romantic way. :D
Likeable alcoholics don't cease to exist because you edit them out of children's history.Tintin in Tibet is the acknowleded classic among classics, missing only the Thompson Twins as characters that include Haddock, Snowy the dog and, of course, the intrepid man-child Tintin himself.What is remarkable, in view of the dominance of fantasy in most contemporary graphic design, is the lack of the fantastic.
The world was small enough in 1960 that Tibet could be, in itself, an exoticism - last frontiers such as the Amazon, Space and the Pacific Islands still existed for kids at that time.

This is, most probably, my favourite book of Tintin's adventures!
In it, Tintin'sgrowing intuition leads him to follow the clues of his missing friend Chang, who had a plane crash in Tibet...
The whole book is a hymn to friendship and endurance, because not only Tintin risks his life to try and find a friend whom everyone thinks is dead, but also Captain Haddock, even though grumbling all the way, in the end always decides to accompany Tintin, even though there is danger to their lives in the exploration of these snowy peaks...
Lovely story, lovely characters, lovely drawings...Maria Carmo,Lisbon, 21 January 2015.
Blistering Barnacles!
This is the issue that made me want to buy the whole box set.
It's lighthearted, quirky and a smartly composed comic where the reader journeys in a mini-escape into the world of Tin Tin where adventures abound.
It's definitely written for a younger audience as a lot of things just happen to happen and some things are left unexplained.
None-the-less, I say it's smartly written because of how Herge captures the cultural idiosyncrasies of Tibet so well within so few pages.
I've been to Tibet and I felt like I was walking through its mountain paths all over again.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
In this book, Tintin goes back to China(Tibet) and looks for his friend, Chang, whom he had heard was in a plane crush that occurred right at where he was in Tibet.
Herge devised to draw a book of Tintin going to Shanghai, China, in 1940s(the era in which they were living in), and Chang taught him fine traditional Chinese art, supervised him in Chinese history and modern political background.
After completing the fourth Tintin book, Chang went back to his home land.
When WWII was over, Herge stepped into many Chinese restaurants to look for Chang Chong-ren but could find non.

من هم با اون پول یکی از سری کتاب های تن تن را خریدم.
یادم نیست کدامش بود اما یادمه که روزها طول کشید تا خواندمش.
پول تو چیبی ها و تشویقی هام رو جمع می کردم و هر دفعه یکی دیگه از سری کتاب های تن تن رو می خریدم و می خوندم.
دوست ندارم کتابی را دو بار بخونم (البته منظورم فقط کتاب داستانه) چون معتقدم قرار نیست نوشته های کتاب رو مثل درس حفظ کنیم و یا یاد بگیریم و به قدری کتاب خوب زیاده و وقت ما محدود که نمی شه وقت بیش از حدی را صرف هر کتابی کرد.
Baca buku komik ini dulu itu deg-degan banget~Karena bacanya diem-2, 'nyolong' dari lemari si Kuching (^ ^;)>Aku suka! Selain gambar yang b(^0^)d dan cerita yang seru, juga pesan Tintin nge-jleeb banget~Pesan bahwa Yeti juga manusiaa.., punya rasa punya hatiii!! ヾ(〇｀)ﾉ♪♪♪ *dengan suara serak-serak garing*Becanda...(garing juga)Maksudku, pesan kalo manusia yang wajahnya seseram Yeti pun belum tentu hatinya gak seram...//lahYa pokoknya jangan menilai seseorang (manusia/makhluk lainnya) dari 'pe
Baca buku komik ini dulu itu deg-degan banget~Karena bacanya diem-2, 'nyolong' dari lemari si Kuching (^ ^;)>Aku suka! Selain gambar yang b(^0^)d dan cerita yang seru, juga pesan Tintin nge-jleeb banget~Pesan bahwa Yeti juga manusiaa.., punya rasa punya hatiii!! ヾ(´〇｀)ﾉ♪♪♪ *dengan suara serak-serak garing*Becanda...(garing juga)Maksudku, pesan kalo manusia yang wajahnya seseram Yeti pun belum tentu hatinya gak seram...//lahYa pokoknya jangan menilai seseorang (manusia/makhluk lainnya) dari 'penampakan' luarnya, tapi dari bukti perbuatannya ⁽⁽◝( • ω • )◜⁾⁾Buktinya: kucing tetanggaku itu imut banget~ tapi hobinya ngoprek-2 sampah anak se-kosan ""( _ _) *curcol*
It is my favourite book in this classic book series. It hasn't lots of action but this journey was awesome. Nothing is better than reading how Tintin wants to help his friend and sets of a journey with full of adventures. No one believes that Tintin's friend is alive but the journalist doesn't believe in that. So Tintin fights with a Jeti, he is covered in snow, he climbs into a steep mountain and risks his life for his friend that can be already dead.
A good read, set in the mysterious Himalayas. Great, as usual, with lots of cultural insight and beautiful artwork with an exciting and adventurous story line. Hergé is a genius with this kind of thing. My favorite panel is one in which there is a vista of snow covered mountains on every side, with a wrecked plane and the rescuers set in the middle. You really get a sense of the cold, and the loneliness and how small the humans are compared with the cruel mountains around them.
Great Adventure again by tin tin and co!! Few of the earlier installments were a kind of mind games, but this is an out and out adventurous stuff!! Tin-Tin has shown the value of friendship!! Snowy is as cute as ever!! Captain haddock was hilarious!! Enjoyed it fully!! Narration was great and I still remember the animation part I saw years ago!!
