https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/632164.Company_K
Company K,William March's "non-fiction" Novel of World War IWhen Truman Capote claimed to have created a new literary form, the non-fiction novel,In Cold Blood in 1966, he was about thirty three years behind the times.
His personal experience of encountering a young German Soldier whom he bayonted through the throat continued to haunt him long after the incident occurred.In New York, March finished his first extraordinary novel, Company K.
It is the only War-book I have read which has found a new form to fit the novelty of the protest.
Gli uomini della Compagnia K, soldati semplici, caporali, sergenti, tenenti, sono i protagonisti di questo romanzo corale, definito da Graham Green come “il romanzo più importante che sia mai stato scritto sulla Prima Guerra Mondiale”: ognuno di loro prende parola e ci racconta, in capitoli brevissimi, la sua testimonianza.
C’è chi partecipa alla fucilazione di nemici inermi, chi butta via la gavetta di riso perché ha fame di ciò che mangiava prima di arruolarsi, chi dopo aver ucciso un tedesco ne ruba il pane inzuppato di sangue perché di fame non ne può più, chi scrive poesie, chi riceve medaglie d’onore, chi, preso forse da un raptus, uccide il proprio comandante, chi uccide in maniera gratuita e poi, a guerra finita, verrà perseguitato per sempre dagli incubi.
William Edward Campbell served with the Marine Corps during WWI in Company K of the 3rd Battalion, 5th Regiment, 4th Brigade, within the 2nd Division. Drawing from his personal experiences he wrote this powerful fictitious novel using the pen name William March. From the beginning of the war to the return home the author portrays how one mans life was dramatically changed under the philosophy of “you don’t come out the way you went in”.
Although the entries are often brief, March effectively submerses the reader into the world each soldier lived in, describing with such detail the experiences of each soldier that one can almost feel the uniform on himself and hear the marching of boots on either side.
However, what makes this novel so important as a reflection of history is the realistic description of the war down to every chilling detail.
March's artistic portrayal of the war through his concise entries make this a must read for anyone who seeks a novel describing one of the most important events in the world's history.
Sería más sencillo, sin lugar a dudas, escribir sobre algo así.
Compañía K es una obra poliédrica sobre la guerra.
Cada cara una voz.
Cada voz una historia.
¿Acaso la guerra está compuesta por una sola voz?
El muerto no compartirá la visión del vivo.Todo cabe en Compañía K, porque William March no se limita a contar una historia.
Entre los muchos atributos de Compañía K está la de contar una historia sin fecha de caducidad.
Una historia que si sabemos mirarla sin uniformes es válida para todos los ejércitos, para todos los derrotados.
It's Remembrance Day here in Canada, a day set aside each year to show respect for veterans who served in the great wars.
Politicians stand in front of war memorials and yap about young men making the ultimate sacrifice against the forces of evil.
But what was the Great War, anyhow?
How, in these empty, symbolic gestures, has the real war been lost?WWI was a stupid, pointless war fought by a dying aristocracy.
A soldier is haunted by the ghost of a German he killed.
Forces of evil?
War is the evil, and so is forgetting.

One of the best books I have ever read. A revelatory and soul jarring comment on the folly of war as we know it. The writing is exceptional and the style is totally fresh (to me at least). Read this book. 5 stars.
Really good WWI book. A series of 113 very short (two or three pages) stories that interconnect. Surprised I'd never heard of this one before... its definitely up there with the other classic WWI books.
In high school, the book that got me labeled a communist by my friend's dad. Should be read with Slaughterhouse-Five to ward off ignorance, arrogance, and tendencies of warmongering.
Uno alla volta, "sfilano" davanti a noi il soldato semplice Edward Romano, il tenente Edward Bartelstone, il soldato semplice William Anderson, il soldato semplice Benjamin Hunzinger, il sergente Julius Pelton, il soldato semplice Richard Mundy, e tanti altri (sono in tutto 115, cioè l'intera compagnia), ciascuno per raccontare il proprio pezzetto di storia, chi è stremato per i turni di guardia in trincea di ore e ore e ore, chi ha dovuto sparare su dei prigionieri inermi, chi si è ritrovato in mezzo a un attacco col gas, chi è morto in mezzo alla terra di nessuno.L'espediente di dare a ciascuno un nome e un cognome li rende più veri e "reali", eppure, allo stesso tempo, non impedisce che la loro testimonianza diventi per così dire "universale" (specialmente perché, come detto, anche i defunti partecipano a questo "rito" collettivo).
While I really enjoyed "All Quiet" and "Farewell", "Company K" was a bit too abstract for me."Company K" is the story of an American Marine infantry company on during the First World War. It traces the experiences of the members of the unit from training in the States, to the crossing of the Atlantic, through the war in the trenches in France, to the return to the States and the lives of the veterans of the company after the war.
The realities described by the author undoubtedly were real problems experienced by recruits, soldiers and veterans of the First World War. If you are interested in reading a great novel about the realities of the Great War in the trenches, I would highly recommend "All Quiet on the Western Front" or "A Farewell to Arms".
But even though that makes the story less coherent, it didn’t make the reading experience as a whole any less intense.Despite being a highly decorated WW1-veteran himself, author William March regarded war as pure evil, so most of the stories are mean, coldblooded chapters of madness without any hope or comfort.
“Company K” serves as an anti-war protest; and at the time, March was breaking barriers by using the pain of his PTSD in order to create this work of literature.One of the characters at the beginning of the book, who has penned down his experiences as a soldier, hopes his words will not only be understood by American combatants, but by those all across the world where men are plunged into war.
William March's Company K is a series of vignettes (113 in all) of the various members of this fictional (but no doubt autobiographical) WW1 US Marine company in France in 1918.When I first read this as a teenager, I found it entertaining, sad, and in parts disturbing.
The horrifically disfigured young soldier who insists on his pre-war fiancé honouring her promise to marry him - and the vividly painted scene of spending his wedding night at opposite ends of the room from his young bride, who is repulsed by his grotesque appearance and is sobbing hysterically at her predicament of being married to a "monster" left a crushing emotional impact on me when I first read it as a teenager.This book covers every range of emotions, from the funny boot camp episodes to the description of watching comrades walk straight into an artillery bombardment that wipes them out.
Vuonna 1933 ilmestynyt teos on melkeinpä pikemmin kertomuskokoelma kuin romaani.
Tuloksena on rakenteeltaan kiinnostava ja modernilla tavalla yhtenäinen teos, joka pohjautuu kirjailijan omiin kokemuksiin.
Muutama yksittäinen katkelma jäi kummittelemaan mieleen, kuten ”Tuntemattoman sotilaan” riipaiseva oivalluksen hetki keskellä taistelukenttää.Joissain arvioissa on ehdotettu, että tämän parina voisi lukea Erich Maria Remarquen Länsirintamalta ei mitään uutta, jossa puolestaan näkökulma on saksalaisten.
Hesarin arvion mukaan myös Ville Kivimäen Murtuneet mielet sopii teemansa puolesta yksiin tämän kanssa.
Yhtä kaikki vasta viime vuonna suomennettu Komppania K on vaikuttava sodanvastainen puheenvuoro.
Kriitikko Tuukka Hämäläisen mukaan myös ”sotakirja niille, jotka eivät yleensä lue sotakirjoja” (ES 17.9.14), mistä ainakin omasta puolestani olen samaa mieltä.
A “Band of Brothers” for the First World War, and a relatively rare glimpse into the experience of American Marines in the trenches, “Company K” is a vital and intense novel.
That's the thing with this singular and remarkable work, it is not so much a novel of war, but war itself rendered through the mouths of these men.
For me, March has achieved the purest form of war novel imaginable.
All most of us know of war is through the movies we have watched.
They knew the truth of what war was like and that it was nothing like what he had portrayed on screen.
This book is a story of a company in WWI.
This book stands as a stark contrast to the broader narratives you will read of battles and strategies being executed.
It is told man by man, by each member of the company.
Even if you have no interest in military history, this is an excellent book to read.

If the fate of todays veterans concerns you the last 100 pages of Co. K are a must read.
March has the credentials to talk about what really happens to people involved in a war.
Those of us who have served can see those we served with in these pages.
The post war part is truly moving and I see some of myself in those last 100 pages.
AS this nation continues to fight in Afghanistan the questions we ask today are the same ones March asked 100 years ago.
All our politicians need to read CO.
Company K is made up of over a hundred short narratives and vignettes, most of them two to three pages long, told in no particular order, about what happened to the soldiers of that company over the course of a year in the first World War, and in some cases about how the war follows them even back in the States.
It's not an easy read, and many of the stories are ones that make you put down the book for a moment to marvel at the cruelty of mankind, and the hopelessness of an individual soldier during wartime.
I was afraid the book might be too gruesome for me, but it wasn’t.
I have a much better understanding of the war experience now that I’ve read this novel.
It consists of a bunch of very short chapters.
Each one describes one particular incident, told from the point of view of a particular soldier.
Each chapter is narrated by a different soldier.
Sometimes, they are telling about the same incident, but from a different point of view.
The novel tells the complete story in that the incidents described happen before, during & after the war.
I highly recommend this book!
À travers de courts témoignages imaginaires mais documentés des soldats américains de la Compagnie K l'auteur donne une vision polyphonique de la guerre. Des tranchées, des tirs de barrages, de la violence subie, des refus, des traumatismes, on suit la compagnie jusqu'en Argonne puis vers la paix. L'après aux États Unis est rempli de fantômes, de spectres, de blessures et de quelques retrouvailles. Un roman qui confine au travail d'orfèvre.
A little known semi-fictional account of an American soldier (from Mobile) in WWI. A. Ed unique story structure with 50or more individual vignettes that wheel around in time and intersect in fascinating ways. But most of all a brutal indictment of war. Amazing how many anti-war works came out of Americans who went to France to fight the "war to end all wars". Probably why the book is so little known
Take a wood, now, or a ravine: In a year's time you could never guess the things which had taken place there.I repeated my thoughts to my wife, but she said it was not difficult to understand about battlefields: The blood of the men killed on the field, and the bodies buried there, fertilize the ground and stimulate the growth of vegetation.
That was all quite natural she said.But I could not agree with this, too-simple, explanation: To me it has always seemed that God is so sickened with men, and their unending cruelty to each other, that he covers the places where they have been as quickly as possible."
The stories take a dramatic turn for darker narrative about 20 chapters in - telling intermittent stories of loss, death, and grievance.
There are over 46 different characters amongst these 100 pages, each telling a short story from their own perspective.
By utilizing about 50 different characters, each with their own point of view, March is able to tell powerful stories in an incredibly concise manner.
Setting up these darker, more dense stories by beginning with lighthearted stories from bases and liberty serves to paint a sense of linear narrative, although one is not necessarily present.
Un texto plano, con historias cortas, todas en primera persona, sobre la estancia en la Gran Guerra de un grupo de soldados americanos. La premisa es simple. La guerra también. En el combate no tiene porque haber grandes oradores ni hombres de gran intelecto ni habilidades especiales. En la guerra hay hombres contra hombres que son manejados cómo marionetas en el juego de la política. La guerra es horrible, es traumática y, a veces, mortal. Eso es lo que cuenta este libro y no deja títere con cabeza. Me ha gustado mucho. Recomendable.
I had to read this book for my college honors history class, and let's just be clear, I did not enjoy this book. I'm not gonna lie in saying that I did like a few entries here and there, but the majority of it, like a good 80% of it, was just weird, and pointless. I don't recommend it if you aren't into the whole diary written type of book. I would give it a try if you are a history geek, since it was based off of WWI soldiers. RATING: TWO STARS; it was okish.
This book is about the World War 1, pictured through the short stories told by 113 men belonging to the Company K. The stories give a grass-level look of the war in many places, at the same time building a bigger picture about the company itself, about the war and things that will follow the men back home after the war is finished. Very powerful book, which lingers in your mind long after reading and makes you wonder if war really is as necessary as it's said to be. 4 stars.
amazing, simple character sketches, i think this book should be made mandatory for high school students to read.i will buy this book and read and study it, and make or remake a film about this book as it has alot of power.i think william march is a very under promoted writer.the bad seed was a powerful film from his book, but this one i think is even more powerful and timeless.
World War I, most interesting war, very melancholic and cruel book, told many stories of many different men in WWI, left me feeling a bit empty, but totally worth reading. I've been always curious about what war does to people, and WWI especially being the first-of-its-kind, the shell-shocked people who came back alive from the war were not sane at all, who would be?
