https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95395.Preacher_Volume_4
A "Most Interesting" review:He once read Ulysses by James Joyce… He composed a dirty limerick in Cuneiform… He once… He is… ... “I don’t always read graphic novels, but when I do, I prefer  Preacher by Garth Ennis.”  ...Nuff said...I mean when the coolest suds spokesman since Billy Dee was telling America that, "It works every time" spills that he enjoys Garth Ennis’s Preacher series, I’m not sure what more my rambling comments can add to the endorsement, so let me just give a brief rundown of t
PLOT SUMMARY:Taking a break from the ongoing storyline, this installment provides some overdue back story on several important supporting characters, most notably and most awesomely, the immortal, badass extraordinaire, Saint of Killers.
While main character Jesse Custer is clearly the voice of the series, Ennis has described the Saint of Killers as its "soul," making his story an essential aspect of the narrative.
While I did not enjoy this quite as much as the Saint of Killers storyline, it was well done and Ennis does an excellent job evoking empathy for the child that became this monster of a man.
I wasn't sure how I felt about that, but once I started reading, I loved it!
Because he lived and now looks like this:But he has a new outlook on life, and even though no one can understand a word he says, he still talks a lot as though he was a motivational speaker.
I wasn't sure if I was going to give this four or five stars, but the fact that I read it so quickly and stayed up late to finish it, put me from the 4-4.5 stars range to just giving it all the stars.
Garth Ennis wrote an introduction to this volume of Preacher where he says that part of his inspiration for the story came from his love of western movies.
For a character that’s been portrayed as disgusting comic relief to this point, it’s a surprisingly moving story.There’s a hilarious satire of action hero movies starring a couple of old acquaintances of Jesses’s.
Watching Jody and TC’s violent redneck antics as they deal with a handsome male cop and a beautiful female lawyer being pursued through a swamp by a deranged terrorist is disgusting, and completely hilarious.But the pivotal story in this the origin of the Saint of Killers.

Im rating this 5 stars only for Preacher Special: Saint of Killers #1-4 and not the other two stories in this collection which isnt as powerful.
The first 3 volumes of Preacher issues was good but not as great as the story of Saint of Killers and his old west days.
Garth Ennis is a great comics writer and his writing of the Revisionist Western story is one of the best westerns i have read in comics form.
A dark Western that deals frankly with the uglier aspects of violence and the myth of the Old West.
Holy crap! The Saint's story was even better than I imagined!I mean, we're getting into some great ghost story stuff, but add a mountain of steroids and a man that both the Angel of Death and Satan, himself, is scared shitless of, and we've got Keyser Söze, or um, I mean, the Saint of Slaughter. :) Hell of a good story. Someone in Supernatural has been cribbing from this comic. :)And now that I know so much more about this guy, I can't believe that everyone got off so light, before. :)
"Ancient History" is sort of a sidenote to the main story of Custer and Co. as this book (the fourth in the series) contains back story for the Saint of Killers, Arseface, and Jody and T.C. The best of the bunch is the Saint of Killers' story.
The story takes up a full half of the book and is perfect reading for upcoming Hallowe'en celebrations.
It's a great addition to the brilliant story of "Preacher", fleshing out the supporting players for the reader and providing some excellent reading for a couple of hours.
Review in Volume 9.
Ah yes, what I've come to learn is a signature move on the part of Ennis (and others like Aaron in Scalped or Wood in DMZ): the volume of "side character stories".Related tangent: I was obsessed with Preacher when I first read it, and tracked down everything in print.
Least exciting story: the lame parody of 20th-century action films, even if there were a few fun puerile moments.
Much better one off stories than the Cassidy origin. The saint of killers story was phenomenal. The Arseface and The Jodi, T.C. stories were ok.
This is a collection of three stories that provide background information for different characters.
In this collection, we find out how the Saint of Killers comes to be, how the accident occurred to Arseface, and a side story to Jodi and T.C. who were characters in Jesse's teenage years.I absolutely loved the stories about the Saint of Killers and Arseface.
It was just a little too much on the nose for my liking as it was blatant what it was trying to spoof.I enjoy the background information aspect of universes as we get to see the motivations of characters.
DISCLAIMER: I wasn't able to find the physical trade of this one and when I went out to get the single issues I could only find The Saint of Killers storyline.
So I will only review that portion of this trade and not the other two stories.
So the story of this tells us the origin of The Saint of Killers; the unstoppable, completely OP cowboy who hunts Jessie in the main Preacher series.
Overall it's a bit of a break away from the main story in Preacher, but its a pretty solid volume!
This volume consists of three different Preacher tie in stories.
Saint of Killers: This is the origin of the unstoppable gunslinger who has Jesse Custer in his sights.
I enjoyed this one the most of the three as I'm a huge fan of Weird Westerns, and that's exactly what this is.
5 StarsStory of you-know-who: This is the origin of Arseface, and this was surprisingly deep.
5 stars.The Good Ol' Boys: This one was the weakest of the bunch.
A story of Jody and TC from before we see them in Preacher.
3 stars.Overall not a bad volume at all, and a nice aside from the main storyline.
Ancient History features 3 spinoff stories about The Saint of Killers, Arseface, and the Jody and T.C. tandem.
I believe that these standalone chapters are not vital to the whole Preacher story as a whole, though they offer a deeper character development that the main series didn't show.All three stories are entertaining, though it's only with the origin of The Saint of Killers and Arseface I am invested in.
It may not be at par with the main comics, but these spinoff chapters are definitely must-reads for Preacher readers and fans.
Ancient History covers the background of some of Jesse's adversaries: the Saint of Killers, Arseface, and Jody & T.C.Saint of Killers struck me as the most interesting.
I even found myself sympathizing with the man he was and the situation that brought him to what he is now.Arseface is a story of a quiet teen from an abusive home.
Though I don't care all that much for the character, it was sad to see Sheriff Root's treatment, the mother's depression, and the uncertainty that led "Arseface" to destruction.
He inspires a lot of pity.Jody & T.C. What to say about these two.
There are three parts to this volume, featuring some of the main supporting characters.It begins with the action-packed backstory of The Saint of Killers.
I really enjoyed this!The second story was about the much talked about Arseface.
This was okay, but definitely my least favorite out of the three!Even though this takes away from the main storyline with Jesse, Cassidy & Tulip, it was nice to have a more fleshed out view of some of the important supporting characters.
Now that I am back into reading them, I really cannot wait to see where the story goes next!
The first, chronicling how the Saint of Killers became who he is, is the highlight of the three, but the Arseface story is also revealing and worth reading.
The story of Jesse's redneck cousins was the only one that I really didn't love, as it was a little too farcical and over the top.I also didn't like the fill-in artist, Carlos Ezquerra, as much as Steve Dillon, the regular artist for the series.
I enjoyed how over the top the Jody/T.C. story was with the typical over the top action star, and the female with the over-complicated backstory. I also enjoyed reading how the Saint of Killers took up his enchanted pistols and began his reign of terror. Saying that, though...i didn't like the artwork and I felt that even though the stories were good, most of the book was a waste of time. An unwelcome break to the normal Preacher story arc.
The first story (Saint of killers) is good, but i can't say the same for the other two and that's why i gave 2 stars.
i literally don't even think i read this 'volume' the first time i read through the series because NONE of this seems familiar in the slightest.
anyway this is a volume comprised entirely of specials that have little to do with the main plot line.
you can honestly skip it and not miss out on anything important.the saint of killers stuff was probably the best out of the three but still leaves me rolling my eyes, mostly because i have literally zero patience for 'murdered wife and child' origin stories and also just because i don't caaare.
plus we pretty much knew all of his stuff already from the main series.
This is a collection of three spin-off stories.The first tells the much-needed backstory of The Saint of Killers.
It was well-done, creative, and interesting; it's also the reason that I didn't give this volume a more negative review.The second tells the little-needed backstory of Arseface, who is...
We learn how he became deformed, in a very dated and cliched plotline that adds virtually nothing to the story except satisfy one's curiosity as to how someone can survive a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head.The third is an even less-needed story of two people (an intentionally cliche hero and his intentionally cliche naive female companion) who run into Jesse's family's enforcers, Jody and T.C. While the male "protagonist" is supposed to be foolish and annoying, I actually felt bad for him because of the cruelty of Jody and T.C.
What doesn’t kill them will leave a scar.The level of violence in these stories is maximum tier, maybe even beyond that if it’s humanly possible.
While the animal deaths are a true representation of how screwed up life can be, it doesn’t make them easier to read about, much less physically see on the pages of a graphic novel.
His only escape in life is through his punk rocker best friend Pube, who happened to be the one to shoot the yappy dog with a shotgun.
The story is 4* and could have been 5* had it gone back to the Civil War days for more than a splash page to explain a little more about this man before he became the Saint.
His time in hell was beautifully drawn and written, and his revenge on earth as the newly ordained Saint was brutal and bloody.The Story of You-Know-Who gives the back story of Arseface and is a solid 5* story.
Remember, I'm a supermodel-turned-lawyer with a dangerous secret!" Page 4 is filled with even more horribly-written exposition and these characters and their whole story just stunk.
Three sections cover the origin stories of the Saint of Killers, Arseface, and Jody & T.C.
His artwork overall seemed very scratchy.Arseface's origin was a bit of a coming of age story, to some degree, though it just showed a bit of his downward spiral.
The main arc of Arseface's character is that he learns to take responsibility for his actions, though he is a pretty stupid guy in general.The last section with Jody and T.C. reads like a cheezy 80s action movie, particularly the side characters.
The story shows just how nasty, but badass Jody is, particularly in a bloody bashing of a gorilla.
The first details the origin of the Saint of Killers, a tragic and monstrous character driven into his profession as the angel of (particularly) bloody death by the machinations of the Lord ...
The Saint of Killers represents humanity at its most tragic, dragged down into sin and despair by a deceptive God, seeking to pull ourselves out, only to not only fall but be pushed.This book is powerfully written, marred only by some truly ugly art by Steve Pugh; to a degree, that ugliness is part and parcel of the story, but too often distracts from it.The second tale is the origin of Arseface, the disfigured failed suicide and object of mockery in the Preacher saga.
Preacher Volume 4: Ancient History leaves our trio of heroes and their quest to confront God and instead focuses on the backstories of some of the minor characters we've met so far: the frighteningly unstoppable Saint of Killers, the comic foil Arseface and the backwater hicks who made Jesse's childhood hell, Jody and T.C. Ancient History places these stories within the recognizable contexts of popular genres, reworking the genres while maintaining the series' trademark humour, bloody violence and, for the most part, adding to our understanding of the overall story.
Usually they do a good job balancing the background and the foreground, but not this time.Two issues truly began to bother me in this issue.
First, Genesis as the "new" idea of Good and Evil together.
I just never thought that was all that new or even unexplored.
With Genesis comes the whole issue of Christianity as the one true religion.
I know the series is called Preacher, but given that it's supposedly exploring a new idea, I sort anticipated more exploration.The second issue I have is the treatment of women.
All the women are wives/lovers.
Saint of Killers segment - excellent, although I really, really wish it had all been drawn by Carlos Ezquerra!
Never mind, eh, his segment is gorgeous and brilliant but the other parts are still quite wonderful and moody and nasty in their own right.
Just not as wonderful to look at (although I've seen lots of reviews arguing the contrary!
As for the other parts...
well, Arseface's origin story was genuinely touching, which I hadn't expected - started out thinking oh God why are we revisiting this, but I was glad of it in the end.
As for the third story, the standalone Jody & TCfest...
Pra começar, a ausência de Steve Dillon nas artes é um retrocesso imenso para a HQ.
A única que se salva é "A História de Você-Sabe-Quem", e ainda assim sofre com uma arte "qualquer coisa".
É difícil engolir, nesta hq, qualquer outro traço que não seja o de Dillon.Nem mesmo a saga do Santo dos Assassinos foi tão boa quanto prometia.Minha nota para todas as história é 2, com exceção da citada acima, que fica com a nota 4 pela carga dramática que possui.O encadernado consegue ficar com um 3, sendo bem generoso.
This book confirms my theory that most origin stories just aren't worth it, that some mystery is a good thing.
There are a few of Ennis's darkly humorous bits, but by and large I was bored with the three stories here.**SPOILERS**The Saint of Killers origin wasn't too bad if a little underwhelming.
Arseface's story was funny in parts, but it revealed nothing that wasn't inferred from previous comics.
The story of Jody and T.C. was just...dumb.
While reading about both in previous issues I never once had a pressing desire to read about any of their exploits.
This story did nothing to change my mind.
