https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22522808-trigger-warning
As far as typical short story collections go, this doesn’t quite work.
I’m of course thinking about the writing of Alice Munro and James Joyce here, and other greats of the short story form.
The Bradbury story, though in itself a fantastic piece of writing, does not have one.
I can only conclude that such a thing was used as an attempt to bring unrelated stories together and market them as a collection of writing.
Most of the short stories in here are really good pieces of writing, Gaiman at his best, though they don’t all fit the model the book is trying to prescribe.
Once the dust has settled and adoring Gaiman fans are finished slobbering over this truly uninspired collection of "short fictions and disturbances"...{read: cast-off ideas and random vanity-noodling}, I think that 3.94 cume might come crashing down).
But, no, I really liked  American Gods, I adored  The Ocean at the End of the Lane, ditto  Coraline and  Neverwhere.
hyperbolize much, blurb writers?}) All I can say is, of this previously-published collection of 24 entries (including 4 lackluster poems),  maybe three of them seemed remotely worthwhile.
Most everything here (except the last story, and, perhaps, "Nothing O'Clock" {an episode of "Doctor Who" Gaiman penned}) needs to be returned to the idea box, and either expanded upon, or scrapped.
I have opined before that Neil Gaiman is the literary heir to Ray Bradbury’s rich legacy, being of mind to celebrate imagination whilst acting as a guide to the shadowy places in the calliope we call life.Trigger Warning is Gailman’s 2015 collection of shorter work and much of it is in the spirit of Bradbury but with Gailman’s special voice.
Twenty-three separate pieces are presented to delight those readers accustomed to visiting that country between dusk and shadow frequented by Gailman and Bradbury.
Something that can never happen.
The monsters in our cupboards and our minds are always there in the darkness, like mold beneath the floorboards and behind the wallpaper, and there is so much darkness, an inexhaustible supply of darkness. The universe is amply supplied with night. There is a diversity of material in Neil Gaiman’s third and latest collection of short fiction, Trigger Warning. It is a potpourri of twenty four pieces, if we take as a single piece the entry called A Calendar of Tales, which, itself, holds a dozen
There is a diversity of material in Neil Gaiman’s third and latest collection of short fiction, Trigger Warning.
He brings in some familiar names, David Bowie, Sherlock Holmes, Doctor Who, Maleficent, Snow White, a traveler from other Gaiman writings, Shadow Moon, twists endings into satisfactory curls for the most part, wanders far afield in setting and content, well, within the UK anyway, tosses in a few poems for good measure, and even offers up a few chuckles.
I added a link at bottom to a more-than-text offering re the Calendar of Tales, for one.Overall I found Trigger Warning is a pretty good survey of Gaiman’s impressive range.
There were some other spooky stories (i.e. The Truth about Cassandra or Feminine Endings) that I enjoyed but (as usual) I didn't like most of them AND only one of them was actually new.
Sigh.Without further ado:Introduction - Felt like he was trying to justify these short stories to get people to read them.
The landlady makes short work of her renters and despite being gone they still linger...Adventure Story - An older woman refers to the most mundane aspects as an adventure and the craziest moments ad normal reality.
I prefer Gaiman's novel-length work, but you do get something in this collection you don't get in longform: his huge range and vast depths of creativity. Most readers will probably only connect with a few pieces here, but it's worth it to read the ones you don't dig as much because they're just so different and so inventive and it's hard to believe they all came from one brain.
I pulled it up: a fish made of books - green covered vintage Penguin detective stories.
I wandered the ice floes of books.I saw someone who looked like my wife out there on the ice.
I honestly liked this more than any of Gaiman's novels I've read so far, but then, I'm a huge fan of short stories.
Handsome Princes are boring and not nearly as good in bed as they think they are!) I also liked 
I never stopped to think that when you have Alzheimer's, you not only forget everyone you love, but your favorite books as well.*from 
Trigger Warning by Neil Gaiman (narrated by Neil Gaiman) "The Man Who Remembered Ray Bradbury"was an outstanding story!
If it weren't for the Ray Bradbury story I would probably have given this a one star, instead.
I've listened to audiobooks of short stories before and have liked them, so I'm not sure why this one didn't work.
In any case, I'm glad to be done with this audio book, since I found myself dreading it every time I went to resume listening.
But if you see it in the library or bookstore, pick it up and quickly read "The Man Who Remembered Ray Bradbury" and then put it back down and leave.
Trigger Warning is a collection of short stories and some poems by Neil Gaiman.
The "bad" thing with collections like this is they are sometimes hard to put down because it so easy to just say to yourself "just one more story" they are short.
One of the best Sherlock Holmes short stories I have ever read and I have a feeling I like it even better than the first time I read it.Jerusalem, what I enjoyed with this story was that I had no idea that Jerusalem Syndrome was a thing and I really enjoyed the wonderful twist in the story.
I have enjoyed this collection of stories.
I think this winter has been a perfect time to read them too.
Or I am in my dark room with the reading light on under a mound of covers in the cold winter night.
I feel like Neil is always opening new doors in my head to unknown destinations in the universe I never went to.
Its strange; I usually only read creepy horror writers for short stories.
I like Stephen King, Edgar Allen Poe and Neil Gaiman short stories.
Otherwise I don't read much of it.
A fantastic collection of short stories and poems by my favorite living author.
While I didn't love every story in this collection there were ones that were just perfect.
A story that addressed some of my personal biggest fears.Click-Clack the Rattlebag was just the kind of creeping, and atmospheric horror story I like.
It might give you a little more context, and it might be helpful to know (view spoiler)[that Shadow isn't precisely all human (hide spoiler)] and that (view spoiler)[his father is Odin (hide spoiler)], but I don't think it's vital to understanding the story either.
In short my favorite kind of horror.
'I don’t understand parents. Honestly, I don’t think anybody ever does.' Trigger Warning is a short story and poem collection by Neil Gaiman intent on finding those little pressure points that cause the most unease and arouse reflection, maybe even disturb you a mite.There's some little gems here but first I'll explain why I like Gaimans wondrous prose and fascinating stories. He thoughtfully exploits the story twist and role reversal better than anyone but it's the little things that stick wit
This perfectly shows the way Neil Gaiman thinks and writes, exploration of a mute fancy that no-one else would even consider wasting a second on, all in a sentence and that's why I love it.Gaiman travels far and wide in this collection, from the last of the Time Lords to Sherlock Holmes and honey bees, from the fancifully dark fairy tale to Shadow from American Gods traveling through my home region of the Peak District encountering ghosts and murder.The Truth is a Cave in the Black Mountains is a haunting tale of travel and treasure, family and murder, darkness, revenge and regret, desire of the soul.
The images that it evoked in my mind while reading were more interesting than actually finishing this story."The Thing About Cassandra" (1 star)-Nope.
I honestly cannot even remember if this made it into the series or not since I have stopped watching that show (sorry it got ridiculous and boring and if it makes you dislike me, have at it) so it was nice to read a story starring Eleven (The Doctor) and Amy Pond.
And not in a good way."The Return of the Thin White Duke" (1 star)-I feel like I am missing out on some big idea that Gaiman was going for in most of his stories.
As usual with short story anthologies - some I was not interested in, some I loved.
What I wish was less often - how many of these stories I'd read already, published in other compilations.
I know it's an author's prerogative how they bundle and republish their work, but I'd prefer to be given new stories.Don't skip the introductions.
Gaiman opens his book of short stories with why he decided on the book’s name, and then states, “What we read as adults should be read, I think, with no warnings or alerts beyond, perhaps: enter at your own risk”.To me, that’s a challenge.
That’s all I will say, except to mention that the story will suck you in and spit you out.The Truth is a Cave in the Black Mountains - A man’s daughter has been missing for a decade before he seeks the cave that holds treasures of gold.
This one comes with some evil and magic.I recommend Trigger Warning to Gaiman fans.
It gave you a wide variety of stories that you are bound to fall in love with at least one of them.I liked a lot of them, like: The Case of Death and Honey mostly because I just love Sherlock Holmes.
Sometimes you need a good scary story in your life.
I mean who doesn't love a good fairy tale cross over kind of book.
Well, because you people need to go get this book and read it for yourselves!
You'll breeze through it and hopefully you'll love it and thank me for it.Seriously, go read it.

https://guninactone.wordpress.com/201...I’ll be honest and say that Neil Gaiman could publish his grocery list and I’d read it.
“Click-Clack the Rattlebag” was deliciously creepy.My issue often times with short story anthologies is the tie-ins to other books or series that I might not have read.
Two stories in Trigger Warning reflect two of Gaiman’s own books, American Gods and The Ocean at the End of the Lane.
Though that series is still on my lengthy to be read list, I still found that story to be one of my favorites.
Actual rating 3.5 stars.Gaiman is undoubtedly a master of the art of writing: his prose his sublime, his imagery evocative and his characters raw and real.
As the title describes, each story deals with themes that could be deemed as triggers, or unsuitable for those of a sensitive nature, and this both excited and charmed my morbid curiosity and I.My only problem with this is that it features short fiction.
It seems unfair to rate a short story collection lowly precisely because it is what it says it is!
Gaiman's bizarre and beautiful prose is, in my belief, better suited to longer fiction.
Neil Gaiman is a writer of fantastic fiction, and 'Trigger Warning' is fantastic.Some of the fragments in here bids me welcome from the past.
Things I did not expect to find within a collection of Neil Gaiman-stories.
It didn't matter that I didn't have a firm grip on the structures within the Whovian-world, what mattered was Gaiman's words, and they told me everything that I needed to know.Neither did I expect to read a crime-story by Neil Gaiman.
"Trigger Warning" is a wonderful story collection, filled with monsters, things and words that will creep under your skin and stay there.
Right from the start I got the chills and I hadn't even reached the stories, this was just the introduction.
I know I'm loving a book, a song, a film, any piece of work because it short circuits my logical brain and sneaks in.
When Neil describes his love for short stories, his journey to writing this compilation, it hit like a whirlpool: strong and unexpected.
I can't say I loved every story, that would be a lie and this book deserves Truth.
I don't feel like it and I don't know why. I read only the prologue and not even one of the stories, that's why I am not shelving it as DNF. I'll just pick it up again when it calls to me a little more.
It was an interesting read, largely entertaining, and even if there was a long, deep stretch of works in the middle that just didn't grab my attention, there were more than enough strong entries to book-end that gap.Rather than review every tale in the collection, I thought I'd just offer my observations on those that worked best for me:The Thing About Cassandra was most definitely an early highlight, and even if I saw the twist coming a few pages early, it was still a great story.Down to a Sunless Sea was one of the shorter tales here, but powerful in the depths of its sorrow.
I discovered Neil Gaiman as a teen, thanks to the Science Fiction Book Club.
The next thing I read was SMOKE & MIRRORS, and there my growing love for Neil Gaiman ran into a bit of a hitch.
And I like to think, having read this, that Neil Gaiman would actually agree with me.So the title of this collection is TRIGGER WARNING.
Now that my digression about emotional maturity and books is done, I can tell you: I loved this collection.
I think this was overall his strongest collection of stories.
If you're looking to discover Neil Gaiman, you could do worse than read this.
Si bien reconozco que siete relatos me resultan memorables y solo por ellos merece la pena la lectura de la antología, el resto de los veinticuatro relatos paso sin pena ni gloria por mis garras lectoras.
No sé si mejora la experiencia lectora o no, pero me ha parecido interesante ir leyendo la breve introducción que hace Gaiman hacía cada relato tras leerlo, me ha resultado curioso en más de una ocasión y a veces he comprendido mejor que quería desarrollar con dicha producción.Dentro de la colección hay tengo que destacar cuatro grandiosas obras, y las cuales además son las tres de los relatos que más paginas ocupan.
O Gejmanu ionako treba znati dve stvari: on je kralj šarmera; on je car pastiša/fanfikšna.
I u dužim knjigama me nekako dovoljno šarmira i hipnotiše da ne primetim kako je to uglavnom smuti pa prospi (dobro, izuzimam dve ili tri knjige, pre svega Koralinu) i osim toga je vrlo pametan čovek koji bira talentovane saradnike (Sendmen!) ali na kraće staze mu to nekako ne ide.
A naročito ne ide kad imitira nekog/nešto ko to mnogo bolje radi (pseudoškotska mračna bajka ne može da se potura nekome ko je čitao i škotske balade i Džordža Mekdonalda, mislim ono, žalim slučaj) (a isto važi i za Džeka Vansa) i sve u svemu, samo za fanove.
Jezovite, maštovite, duhovite i tako gejmenovske u onom čudnom, gotovo bizarnom stilu.Smatram da nije neophodno da svaku priču ponaosob ocenjujem, ali istaćiću par omiljenih:* " Lunar Labyrinth"* "Click-Clack the Rattlebag" * "The Sleeper and the Spindle"* "Down to a Sunless Sea"* "Nothing o'clock""FINAL WARNING There are monsters in these pages, but as Ogden Nash pointed out in my first short-story collection, Smoke and Mirrors, where there’s a monster, there’s also a miracle.
(In my second short-story collection, Fragile Things, I tried to explain that the poems come free.
Trigger Warning is an anthology of 24 short stories written by Neil Gaiman.
Otherwise, the creepiness doesn’t show up until the very end of the story and, by then, the story is over and you’re moving on to something else.
I thought “Feminine Endings” was also a bit creepy.There was one very pleasant surprise in this anthology.
I hadn’t realized there was another American Gods story out there, and I enjoyed this one.I enjoyed nearly all of the stories while I was reading them, but I often felt disappointed by the endings.
This was a very good book. A full rview will be coming tomorrow.Be Blessed.
I mean, it was the right way to start.- A Lunar Labyrinth: 3.5 starsA bit raw and unpolished imo, but good.- The thing about Cassandra: 3 starsGio confused.- Down to a sunless sea: 3 stars- 'The truth is a cave in the Black Mountains...': 4 starsI decided to comment only the short stories I really liked.
The only short story that creeped me out a bit.- Observing the formalities: 2.75 stars- The Sleeper and the Spindle: 4.25 starsAgain, a retelling of a classic fairy tale and a pretty good one.
