https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76660.With_a_Tangled_Skein
Reading Piers Anthony can be a bit of a bumpy ride.  His books usually feature some minor detours into ploddyville and at least one horrible sightseeing escapade through skeevytown that leaves you feeling soiled and very uncomfortable. So I grant you that there is definitely potential for some boring and the genuine risk of UGH in a Piers Anthony tale.However, for all the literary potholes and ICKness he pours into his stories, this pervy old man is also a creative GENIUS who can occasionally sp
So I grant you that there is definitely potential for some boring and the genuine risk of UGH in a Piers Anthony tale.However, for all the literary potholes and ICKness he pours into his stories, this pervy old man is also a creative GENIUS who can occasionally spin threads of pure awesome that make the overall journey worth taking.Speaking of pure, creative genius, can you say rocket-powered barcalounger...
The concept of the universe being run/ordered by seven “Incarnations” of Reality (i.e. Death, Time, Fate, War, Nature, Evil and Good) is cleverly done and Anthony's descriptions are excellent.
MAJOR GENIUS MOMENT:Voice #3 (kind of a gusher) was blown away by one particular idea in the story and thinks a 5 star rating is deserved based on it alone.
Piers Anthony apparently thinks that all men are helpless in the face of their lusts and sexual urges, an argument which he has also used to justify some sickening rape apologism.All female characters whiney, one-dimensional and atrociously stereotyped - overly emotional, irrational creatures who need the grounding presence of a strong male figure in their lives to function properly.Particularly facepalm-inducing is the Japanese Clotho, who runs away from her strict family to avoid an arranged marriage; her notoriously fiery temper then leads her into a feud with a horrible caricature of an Asian martial artist (called, would you believe it, Samurai) who assumes upon meeting her that she's a geisha.
A Pale Horse (Death) will probably always have a soft spot in my love of this series simply because it was my introduction to it, but With a Tangled Skein will climb on top with my favourite read so far.
The connections between A Pale Horse and With a Tangled Skein are very familial with the Magician and Luna being woven into son and granddaughter of Niobe, who took her turns with BOTH Clotho and Lachesis.
It seems like you would want to read With a Tangled Skein before A Pale Horse given the background introduction of the family, but I recommend reading them in the correct order for purposes of intrigue and connection.
It was okay.I keep reading these 'cause I'm fascinated by the plot and I keep hoping that the characters will get better.
I know the incredibly cliche female fantasy character should make me angry, but she's so pathetic I just can't work up a good rage about her.
I doubt I'll read the next on in this series, but I was really looking forward to For Love of Evil.
Oh, well, knowing this series, he's just a nice guy who has a job to do in a boring, hero-y sort of way.
But in this novel I came across a scene that was so offensive to me I closed the book at that very moment and couldn't read further - and this was at a time where I finished anything I started reading, in fact, I felt obligated to.
The scene is where one of the goddesses comes across a very backward town of people who were ready to stone a young woman for polluting their water supply.
I was already bristling inside as I read this scene, but as the goddess had observed, these were a backward people, and she would indulge them by "purifying" the water for them and thus sparing the young girl's life in the process.
Re-read 2018The first of the books about the female Incarnations, this one deals with Fate in all of her aspects. I can't say much about it because there are spoilers for both the earlier books and future books in the series. My only issue is that the main character sees herself as a delicate female even after assuming part of the aspect of fate. She just can't see just how tough and capable she is even when doing some bad a** things.
Probably more of a 4.5 star title, since I do not consider it quite as good as On a Pale Horse.
This is about the Incarnation of Fate, Niobe.
It is an important book in the series since it begins to draw together how one family is peculiarly important to the Incarnations.
Music is beginning to assume an importance in the series that can be explained by the introspective author's note at the end of the story itself.
I highly enjoyed this title, but I'm not saying more because 1) I don't want to give anything more away and 2) I am really busy today and shouldn't have taken time to write this!
The series deals with the personages of death, time, fate, nature, evil, etc.
There are also tons of logic problems, typical of Piers Anthony novels.The plot is mostly how Niobe's life takes its course and how she and her family are destined to cause trouble for Satan's plans in politics 20 years hence.I was really surprised by the number of rape scenes in the book.
I think there were three scenes where rape of a character almost happened.
I'm reviewing all of the books after I finished re-reading the entire series, which I don't normally do & didn't do deliberately this time, either...So I always liked this one in the series.
She's written as a character that is supposed to be a little dumb, but I don't find her really that dumb (though she does have a few moments where she's a bit slow, but we all have those moments).
Every time I read the book, I'm a bit fascinated by the whole three people/souls in one body bit, and how the whole thing works.
This is book #3 in Piers Anthony's Incarnations of Immortality series.
If you've read my reviews of books 1 and 2, you know I'm not particularly impressed by them.
The only reason I even attempted this book was that my completely mindless job allowed me to listen to audiobooks on my ipod while I worked and I had run out of other books.
By this point in the series, it's screamingly obvious that Anthony couldn't come up with an original plot to save his life.
My recommendation: if you read this series at all, read On a Pale Horse and leave it at that.
I read On a Pale Horse and loved it, so I decided to try the rest of the series. However, the skewed way women are portrayed in this book completely killed any interest I had in it. Not that On A Pale Horse didn't portray women a little strangely, but it wasn't at all a big part of the book because that book was written from the point of view of a man. This book is sex obsessed and a bit creepy.
Rereading this wonderful series. This was the series that got me interested in Fantasy. Before Harry Potter and GOT there was the Incarnations. Such a wonderful series!This audio version was terrific. Wonderful narration.
The youngest aspect of Fate shares minds with Lachesis and old Atropos until their turn to take over as the physical body.
(view spoiler)[Learning the role every time is a maze; she makes mistakes the other Incarnations point out or save if they can.
Every Incarnation has to learn not to trust the Father of Lies, another maze.
Chronos "knows the future, but if he said, it would change" p 215.Mortal again, she marries Pace and births Orb at the same time as her grand-daughter Luna.
Luna obeys her father to dye her hair, without knowing why.
What a tangled plot is woven10 January 2012 Once again this series seems to be more intriguing that many of Anthony's other books and does show that he has the ability to weave a good story. I may sound corne using the term weave in this context (as I will explain) but while I would hesitate to read it again, I guess my friend was right when he suggested that Anthony had dumped some good series to focus on the Xanth series, which, in my friend's opinion, had become much more depressing after Ant
Luna is also the subject of this book, and once again Satan is attempting to thwart her rise to power.
Satan is also back with his devious plans, and this time he attempts to undermine the Fates by placing inexperienced mortals into the role.
However Niobe had been a Fate before, so when she is invited she ends up being a thorn in the side of Satan's plans.
However Satan is once again attempting to thwart that goal and is making his promises to the powers that be to step down (with an offer of youth) so that his minions can take their place.
It is her granddaughter who is slated to save the world from Satan’s plan and her daughter who is to become another Incarnation.
After leaving her office as Clotho and returning to birth her daughter and help raise both girls, Niobe is once again asked to take a position with Fate, this time as Lachesis, the maker of the tapestry.
After reading two books where the incarnation is male, I enjoyed the female point of view.
Luckily, I can still enjoy the books by taking what they give me at face values.
Decades ago, I abandoned Piers Anthony as a writer, having outgrown fantasy in general, and his books in particular.
In Incarnations, Anthony imagines what it would be like to actually be Death, Time, and here, the three faces of Fate, doing their work, but also facing off against Satan's schemes.
Most damning is his portrayal of sexual politics, only slightly alleviated by the time frame the characters come from.
Strangely, I would have read more about the characters as they were before Fate intervened, so I thought we were off to a good start.
Not only was it difficult to follow book 1 and then subsequently book 2, but this book had so much misogyny in it, I almost couldn't stomach it!
Fate's role in the overall worldview of this book was awesome.
Her power is amazing, but the entire story left a bitter taste in my mouth for being a woman.
I loved hearing about the background of The Magician, and I would consider this book pivotal to anyone following the greater story of this series.
A really great book, except that reading it as a woman left me feeling offended page after page.
In this story, a young woman marries during World War One and loses her husband due to an elaborate plot of Satan.
She discovers that she is destined to become Clotho, and Aspect of the Incarnation of Fate, in in the process to foil the Devil’s plans.
Because the story begins in Earth’s past, Anthony has the chance to develop an alternative history for his combined technological-magical Universe, and the reader gets to expand his or her understanding of that world correspondingly.
In this one, Anthony reveals much about his troubled childhood to the reader, and how important books and fantasy became for him as escapes from misery.
Then she falls in love with him.Yeah.None of this is framed in a way that implies that there's anything wrong with it -- it's one thing to explore the traumatic effects of sexual assault in a work of fiction; it's another to merely use rape attempts as plot devices, showcase objectified women and children in skeevy attempts at titillation, and glorify incidents of non-consent (as the woman forced to sacrifice her own virginity was nothing but non-consensual; in fact I'm having trouble remembering ANY relationships in the series by this point that weren't arranged or forced).
I do, however, recommend reading them in order, because some of this story was a bit confusing until I back tracked and read the previous books.
I really got into them but never got to finish the series, and hope to pick it up again.
Not a great chore since I liked them so much in the first place.
I'm not going to tripe on other people's opinions of the book.
Some like it and some don't.
Sort of like a car.
Some people love that year, make and model, and some just prefer something a little different.
But I do recommend at least trying out the series.
Thus begins the Renaissance of the Incarnations novels!
In this story, the three women share one body and their souls "force" it to assume the shapes they once held in life.In this book, we are taken on the journey of the life of Niobe, and it is a somewhat long and convoluted journey.
She's a bit of a cougar, though at a young age, but when her husband dies unexpectedly is when her story really begins!
There are a lot of twists and turns in this novel, stuff that I really didn't see coming and don't want to spoil for you here.
Book three in a series.
Here we follow the Incarnation of Fate, well, one of the three Aspects of Fate.
Unlike the first two Incarnations books we follow Fate (Niobe) through a longer portion of her life, and more interactions with those other than Satan, and that is exactly why I liked this book more than the previous one.
I'm re-reading these as it's been 17+ years since I first read the books and I didn't remember anything about them, but I do think I need to take a break before completing the series before the religion, racism, and misogyny drive me crazy.
Probably the one I liked the most in the whole series, although I'm sure if I reread it now, all my Issues with Piers Anthony's views on women and sexuality would rise right back up again. I enjoyed the older woman/younger man dichotomy, and that their marriage wasn't consummated until there was feeling on both sides. I love badass middle-aged Niobe, I love Asian kickass Clotho (although the cliches about Asian women I can live without...), and I love even the memory of Satan not even recognizing Niobe as Lachesis because he can't be bothered to actually *look* at her.
This book is very obvious in the author's exploration of good versus evil. You are hit over the head with his ideas (and in the author's note at the end it happens again, just in case you didn't get it during the fiction portion!) It's pretty obvious that a man is writing--the women are very stereotypical (crying about everything, not nearly as intelligent as the male characters, consumed with housework & child care). At least the male characters are also stereotyped as being all about violence & sex.
It’s definitely a step-up from Bearing an Hourglass, but the third book in the series still struggles to match the first. Sort of a prequel, the plot starts a couple generations earlier in the Kaftan family. Fate, meanwhile, weaves and shapeshifts through Satan’s ploys.Writing the book through the eyes of Niobe won’t win Piers Anthony any gender or cultural sensitivity awards. Even I cringe at the stereotypes he freely uses.
In Niobe, I encountered an interesting woman who has to come to grips with challenges and tragedies. By the end of the book, I found that I liked her. While it isn't necessary to like the protagonist to enjoy a book, my engagement with Niobe was a measure of how well rounded and interesting the character was that Piers Anthony created. Also, it was nice to read about a strong and intelligent female incarnation.
As always, George Guidall puts an interesting "spin" on this story with his amazing narration skills!! Really liked this third installment in the incarnations of immortality series, but got a bit long near the end, with too much logic involved. Kind of takes the pleasure out of a fantasy novel when you have to start thinking about what you are listening to. Good overall--8 out of 10 for me.
No serious review here. I'm just stopping by to say how validating it is to read the reviews that state how creepy and sexist this book was. I read this when I was a teen, and thought maybe I was just a prude then, and should maybe re-read it. But nah, I'm good. Thanks, Goodreaders! (I loved the first book of the series, btw. He should have just stopped there.)
This is the story of the incarnation of fate. Having all three Greek goddesses of fate -- Clotho, Lachesis, and Atropos -- share a single body was an interesting twist. Unfortunately, the women in this book were stereotypical, flighty, and not very bright.
I remember absolutely nothing about reading this book or my feelings about it, except that it happened.
