https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84022.Welcome_to_the_World_Baby_Girl_

When I first began reading this book, I didn't think much of it. I kept wondering to myself: Where is this going? How is everything connected? I started to worry that maybe I was wasting my time, but then all the pieces started to fit together and I started to really enjoy reading it. There were many pieces of the puzzle that, at first, were so disjointed and didn't really go anywhere, but then they all came together and made a beautiful picture, which is what I look for in the end of a great story such as this!
For years my mother has been suggesting that I read Fannie Flagg's writing and I just never got around to it.
So this is when I decided to pick up the copy of "Welcome to the World, Baby Girl" that my mom had lent me several years ago.
...And Mom was right, I LOVED IT!This is the story of Dena Nordstrom ("Baby Girl"), a young and upcoming 1970s TV interviewer whose failing health leads her to seek answers about her mysterious family history.
Sometimes I think I might be too generous with my fives. Found myself liking this better and better until I did not want it to end. She made me laugh and she made me cry.Again I have to say that the number of stars represent how much I enjoy a book and not what great literature I believe it to be.
This book really surprised me. It was a truly heartwarming and enjoyable story.
I would've been happier if Dena's mom was actually a Nazi.
It would've made the book a lot more interesting to find out that she was actually a bad guy.
And her accidental suicide at the end was just ridiculous.
That Dena ends up married to her previous psychologist who had an undying love for her and would put up with everything and anything and living in her "hometown" was just boring.
I did actually like the structure of the book- the play between the radio show, the present and the past.
Another great book by Fannie Flagg. My dad actually suggested I read this since he had enjoyed it and one of the main characters is involved in the broadcasting industry...but really, that's only a small part of what it's all about! A good read for those who like fiction about small town America set earlier in the 20th century. If you enjoy this book, don't miss Fannie Flagg's Standing in the Rainbow, which is set in the same town and gives a lot of background on some of the characters.
The clichs in this novel are deep-fat fried: not particularly nutritious, but entirely delicious.Wandering back and forth through 40 years of history as though it were backyard gossip, Flagg tells the life story of Dena Nordstrom, America's most popular female newscaster.Though she tries hard to forget it, Dena's roots are deeply planted in the small town of Elmwood Springs, Mo. Her mysterious mother took her away when she was only 4, but the good folks of Elmwood still follow her stellar career with complete devotion.
The novel tells a story of a high flying gorgeous tv interviewer, Dena Nordstrom, and how she struggles to leave behind her cancerous lifestyle/job- she loves it because its fast pace enables her not focus on her problems (mysterious mom disappearing, lack of family, inability of love, etc.) and to not form real attachments/ commitments/ relationships to people.
It's a bit jumpy, but that's in part what keeps us on our toes and helps give us a nice rounded perspective of what's actually happening in the characters' lives.I fell in love with the novel's heroine, Dena Nordstrom.
I don't know if I have ever disliked a protagonist as much as I disliked Dena. But I am kind of your anti-careerism/workaholic person so I'm sure that was the reason. I found the big secret of Dena's past really anti-climactic. Maybe because I didn't grow up during that time period? Just really a dull book and not right for me.
The business is cutthroat and to rise, she learns to blindside the people she interviews, doing whatever it takes to get the story.
But she never learns to like it, and comes to a point where she just can't bring herself to destroy a good person, just for a story.
She is haunted by her childhood, when her mother mysteriously left her, and decides it's time to learn what happened.
Some of the characters felt like caricatures and the first half felt disjointed to me, not sure where the story was going, or even at times whose story it was.

At the start of the book the description of Elmwood Springs and Neighbor Dorothy's house immediately made me nostalgic for a romanticized version of small town life, and made me want my own farmhouse with a front porch and swing.
The story of Dena is fun (although I realized I resent like people like her in real life, with looks and personality that draw people to her without any effort)...
My main qualm with the book is the stereotyped characters of small town life.
While the author makes the people in Elmwood Springs and Dena's best friend Sookie very likeable, she also makes them seem unintelligent and silly.
Yuck.
I hated everything about this book.
I made the mistake of taking this as my only reading material on a 12 hour flight to Japan and regretted it!
I should have known that Fannie Flagg's writing style would not jibe well with me.
It contains characters that are unappealing and a predictable romantic element.
Yawn.
I've learned my lesson.
No more Fannie Flagg!
I'm marking this as "read" even though I couldn't force myself to finish it.
I even skipped to the end because I was marginally curious about the outcome and it was every bit as boring as the beginning.
Если вам надо книга, которая отвлечет от реальности и увлечет сюжетом - то это отличный выбор
To me that conjures up someone who is writing fairly lightweight fiction, perhaps a comic writer, someone who perhaps writes romance or gentle tales of simple folk.And up to a point that’s exactly what Fannie Flagg does.
Her books are certainly gentle, her characters are sometimes simple folk, and there is often an old-time whimsy to her writing.
But she is a far more incisive and penetrating writer than that and this book shows Flagg at her best.
We are exposed to all the of the details of the story with no subtlety to speak of; characters' motives and issues are broadcast loud and clear and nothing is left to the imagination.Everyone falls in lvoe with Dena though I could not tell you why, and the worst victim of this, Gerry, proceeds to be a seriously boring twerp who will patiently wait and woo as need be because Dena is so ..
This book was a bit disappointing to me considering the title and the homespun appeal of it's author.
I enjoyed the characters in the small town in Missouri, as well as the sorority sister in Alabama- even thought they were such stereotypes.
I found it unrealistic that her psychiatrist falls in love with her but the new psychiatrist broke all kinds of stereotypes and was a mother figure to Dena.
At the risk of spoiling it for you all, the story would have included Vienna, Nazis, the world of music and medicine, Southern attitudes towards blacks, Black society, conflict between light skinned and dark skinned blacks,conflicts between parent and child.
I joined a bookclub at my place of work in order to force myself to read books outside of my favorite genres.
After reading this book, I realized I'm much better suited sitting with a beer and a collection of Richard Matheson's short stories than poking about in this sort of soapy (as in opera) novel.I must admit I was surprised how much I wanted to find out what would happen to the successful, but troubled Dena Nordstrom.
Yet, I was so deeply moved by the story of Dena's mother that my eyes were actually opened to subjects that though am certainly aware of, I didn't really understand the depth and complexity of.I also learned a lot about the transition that the news media was undergoing in the 1970's from an institution that merely reported the news to an institution that destroyed lives by the vicious, immoral and unethical reporting of people's personal lives whether the information was correct or not.Anyway, I can't wait to read the next two books in the Elmwood Springs series!
"Eventually, success comes to mean different things to different people.
She was such a conflicted, fascinating protagonist, and I was impressed with the many layers to her character.
It was such a great start to the southern charm I have come to love/expect from Fannie Flagg.
All of the characters were fabulous (Sookie especially), and I loved getting to know them.
The shifting from past to present and place and character worked really well.
Although there were times that the southern dialogue got a little long-winded, I still kept turning the pages.
LOVED this book!
Fannie Flagg has such wonderful stories and tells them so well.
At first I thought it would be so predictable, but she takes twists and turns and it makes for a delightful (light) read.
Baby Girl is what folks in Elmwood Springs, MO call Dena Nordstrom.
This is a story of Dena's life in the newscast business, and then her learning about her roots.
It was very interesting and disgusting to imagine the decline and fall of honest news, as the reader will learn the truth about paparazzi news, or pop culture as we know it today.
Great book though, nice light reading.

I just re-read this for a book group discussion this coming week.
Fannie Flagg is such a fabulous writer.
I like to believe she truly captures the heart of Americana and human nature.
Dena, the main character of the book is on the verge of success as a television celebrity, but for some reason she finds herself undergoing dramatic change.
The characters are all quirky, yet likable (although Norma Warren is a little annoying!)and Dena discovers the truth about her past and what really matters most in life.I really like this book; it is just a feel-good sweet and easy read.
This is my kind of book. She wrote Fried Green Tomstoes which caught My eye. I love the movie even though I had not read the book. This book jumps around frequent way between the past and the present which I happen to like flash back books. It is also the kind of ending I like which leaves you happy and adds a little bit of Count of Monte Christo feel to it which I also like. I would recommend this book. I will be reading more of her books
Beautifully narrated, Welcome to the World, Baby Girl is the first of Flagg's Elmwood Springs, Missouri novels, the wonderfully old-fashioned world Flagg created to remind us that it's possible to walk down the street in a place where you know your neighbors, feel safe and secure, and take pleasure in simple things.
They're all just different stories from different times in the lives of the people of Elmwood Springs).
Only when her stress turns into stomach issues does she start to explore the possibility that her stress doesn't come only from her job, and maybe she'd best get to know that family of hers.
A nice-to-read simple written book with a story which is neither thriller nor romantic but just a story of a girl and her journey to discover her past and future. This book will take you emotionally to places and is a good read especially for women who want to lighten up their evenings by a simple yet a glued story. I particularly loved the climax, where it seemed like the author completed a circle. It ended to where it started from. Well written and a happy-to-read book.
My favorite book by Fannie Flagg. This work of fiction attacks tabloid journalism, the dog-eat-dog office politics, workaholics, and racism, while introducing us to the small town of Elmwood Springs. The characters are great, but also believable, as is the plot and happy ending.
I just love reading Fannie Flagg’s stories!! Her characters are sweet, adorable, and hilarious!! I find myself laughing out loud multiple times while reading her books. Makes me want to pack up and move to Elmwood Springs, MO! Simpler times, community, and good people!
warm, vivid, inspiring book about a self made woman, about cosiness of American south and craziness of a modern corporate life and beautiful healing power of love
