https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/245344.Structures
Nothing has fallen on me since I read this book.

At least one child’s skeleton has been discovered immured in the foundations of a bridge."Along the way, Gordon's casual and accessible manner of discussing how structures work--which happens to apply to pretty much everything, including the human body and its tiniest parts, e.g. blood vessels (an observation that, to me at least, wasn't already so obvious)--made for unexpectedly compelling and effective reading on a variety of topics that may sound somewhat specialized to those of us without engineering backgrounds.
Overall, I liked but did not love this book.The author's purpose is to introduce the basic principles of structural engineering in a way that leaves the reader with good intuitions about how structures work, an appreciation for how the field has evolved (and, in turn, how we've evolved with it), and optimism for what the future holds.
More so, you're going to have a humility for all that you don't know.One of my biggest takeaways, personally, was how little we understand of why structures work and how much of our recent experience with airplanes and bridges has been only after structures failed catastrophically.I detested the author's tone.
Consistently illuminating - I read this book with the intention of seeing how learning about physical/engineering structures would translate/resonate for Organisational Development.And it does. Gordon doesn't see a 'clear distinction between material and structure', for example - which I think is a really interesting insight.It's fun, there's lots of interestingly powerful new words to learn, and, although it's very engineer-ish, I managed to grok most of it.
Good introduction to civil engineering and mechanical engineering. How objects respond to stress and strains and how to put materials together to make sturdy usable structures, buildings and machines. Very good book for the amateur engineer in all of us. don't not have to go beyond high school math to understand the principles invoved.
I have instruction in basic mechanics -I am an engineer- and i love all that stuff of stress and strain in structures and objects, but when you start saying that a lot of strain on veins tissue can provoke an Aneurism...
Of course all of this things are true, at least the behavior of this structures knowing their composition is predictable to some degree, the book is honest, but mixing what i know of engineering with tissues and the heart, and the tendons, and the arteries, well i don't want to lose my mind, no thank you.
Structures is, in terms of classes at the University of Florida, Mechanics of Materials and its lab, as well as Mechanical Design 1 and 2.
"Look on this wreckage, ye mighty, and despair-- please don't do this or our college gets a bad rap." Structures has tons of these examples, and as the book goes from the basic principles of factors of safety and critical crack lengths up to arches, we get more and more of them.The last few chapters are calls to action: Failures in structures are almost always due to lazy designers or lazy manufacturing and these are critical moral failures of Biblical proportions.
Parallel to this is failures in aesthetics: an engineer is mostly likely designing something that many people will use.
A really interesting look at how engineers look at structures and materials, how the properties of different building materials influence the design, the practical considerations of various architectural styles, why things break and fall down. Author is an old British chap, writing in the 70s, who apparently really likes ships and greek mythology.
Read this on recommendation of Elon MuskCircumferential stress is twice that of longitudinal stress so that's why the sausage bursts along the length of the sausage it gets dry about 3/5 of the way through and then he starts telling stories. it's a casual textbook. learn a couple things. i wonder what will stick
Physics from a different point of view. Interesting, although the social commentary in this day and age made me cringe.
yet to explore..
The book ranks near to Colinvaux's "Why Big Fierce Animals Are Rare" (not only in the relentlessly precise title) in how much I learned per chapter, although the other book is a bit leaner, in a good way.The other commonality with Colinvaux's book is that they both stress the qualitative unity of many different concepts: why a house and a sailboat and a human body are structurally similar, for example, even though the construction is very different.The book falls flat in two places that, ironically, I usually appreciate.
But Gordon is (by his own admission!) out of his depth here, and rarely achieves anything beyond "old man yelling at cloud" rhetoric.

It finds a nice balance between keeping it light for the casual reader but not shying away from the underlying math.
In fact, you can get a perfectly good intuition for the subject from this book even if you ignored the math altogether; all the major points are illustrated very well by examples and illustrations.
But the math is there for those who find it helps.The only parts I did not enjoy were the last two chapters, in which he first devolves into his own philosophy of who should be blamed for structural failures and then preaches his personal views of aesthetics.
Sometimes I feel strange about giving a book a very high or very low rating when that evaluation seems very particular to me and my circumstances.
I'm sure Young's modulus was mentioned at some point, but I probably forgot it all after I didn't need it anymore.I think this book does a great job of presenting difficult structural properties in an intuitive way where possible, and in simple analytical models where necessary.
The author explores many topics which are unconventional for an introductory mechanics course.I'm still not sure where I stand on the aesthetics of skeuomorphism, but it's definitely worth talking about
Having almost finished training as a physicist, it was a great pleasure to read this conceptual book on structures - a topic which has been missing in my education except for some basic mechanics in the first year.
Hence, while the mathematics in the book have been relatively easy to grasp, the concepts of material science and the historical facts have been of great interest to me.
It gives me great satisfaction to know some basic principles about these quintessential structures and how they came into being.
It's definitely a topic I will further investigate.
A witty and extremely readable review of elasticity, tension, compression and shear physics and the applications of these in various everyday structures (or conversely, structural failure when they are not applied). If only I had read this book in high school, maybe I wouldn't have viewed Hooke's law and stress-strain curves as being as impractical as I did - then again, sweltering afternoons in the laboratory spent hanging weights to a flimsy spring made it somewhat difficult to imagine anything but. Would highly recommend for anyone who has an interest in structural mechanics.
Good book on why things work the way they do. Basic physics / mechanics and quite accessible. I quite like the humorous writing style, and have learned something each read. Well worth your time. Not damning with faint praise, but this is just right for me trying to sleep - interesting enough to engage, not so gripping that I haven't had the kindle fall on my face halfway into my second chapter of the night. Luckily it's light, otherwise I'd be wearing bruises.
What a great layman introduction into the science of materials!The book contains a lot of interesting insights into why certain materials behave in a certain manner under different circumstances. Why does the sausage burst lenghtwise when overcooked? What type of bow is the most efficient?I appreciated the last few pages dedicated to design and its importance in today's increasingly more technical and perhaps dry/dreary world.
"Naturally there is no sharp line between painting and drawing and technological design, and almost everything that gets made is likely to carry with it something of the personality of the maker." A light overview of structures: their design, history, and aesthetics. Clarity of technical explanations often left much to be desired. The book is divided into four sections, with a final section neatly tying up all the concepts & exploring the future and philosophy of engineering.
This is a really great book on structures. One who has almost zero knowledge of the topic (like me) may easily deep dive into this book and understand almost everything. But it will take time... The are some very interesting concepts from the author to remember and reuse in any other aspect of live and work. I would recommend this book to people who wants to widen their outlook, to have a deeper understanding of things and to start learning structures.
Such a full on book, very dense.After reading this book my appreciation for structures in our everyday life has been greatly increased.Looking at the ever growing human crafted world this book feels like putting on glasses that could be the equivalent of thermal glasses compared to normal ones. You see the world in a whole new spectrum."It's not what you do that matters, it's how you do it."
Everyone should read this book, if just for the 'shear' fact of things we take for granted our entire life. Any fellow VA Tech BC grads that might read this, it's a nostalgic walk through History of Architecture I and Mechanics of Deformable Bodies, plus some cool integrations of biomechanics and an intriguing philosophical chapter on aesthetics that brought me back to the volunteer design lectures I used to sit in on.
Highly recommended. The initial chapters give an impression that it is a book for civil engineers and people dealing with strength of materials and designs. This proves to be false as you go along. I am amazed at how comfortably the author touched diverse topics ranging from architecture to biomechanics to shipbuilding.
Really great, and finishes strong on some fun pontificating about design in relation to structure. Best word learned, "skiamorph," which is a vestige of some older design element that was necessary in the past, incorporated into the new version of the thing. A clipper sailing ship's prow on a "modern" steamship, or faux wood graining on vinyl siding.
Absolutely brilliant book.On the surface it might look like a physics (which I love) book but it is so much more. From why boys and girls have different voice pitch to how wings of birds and bats differ everything is there and so much more. Also, one of Elon Musk's favourite book.
I learned a lot from this but it was a slow read. It is somewhere between a text book amd an overview for lay people. It brought back happy memories of a Statics course from long ago and vector arithmetic. Some of the British-isms were a bit hard to follow. I liked it but it was a challenge.
Here's some light reading about structural engineering. Well, there is some math, but not too much. Lots of really interesting insights in to what makes structures stay up or fall down, why planes or ships come apart, etc. I wold recommend this for anyone interested in general engineering.
A little difficult to read because the author often strays from the main topic and introduces concepts which are difficult for a beginner to grasp and relate to. But overall, it is highly informative - you will scratch the surface on a variety of topics.
