https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/253799.The_Aims_of_Education
His idea of a mathematics education grounded in practice, eschewing esoteric theorems in favor of applications in carpentry/surveying, is much more well-thought-out.Finally, the last three chapters were totally out of left field.
They relate to epistemology, but not education, and admittedly I could not follow parts of the argument.
is that the source?) rather than trying to ground science in experience whilst constantly referring to a duality we never experience: when have you ever experienced something purely spatial or purely temporal and not both at once?
Như Whitehead đã viết, "Tầm quan trọng của tri thức nằm trong việc sử dụng nó, trong việc sử dụng thành thạo chủ động của ta đối với nó - nghĩa là, nó nằm trong sự hiền minh." Whitehead cật lực lên án hành vi nhồi nhét những kiến thức tiêu chuẩn và tư tưởng thực hành vào đầu học sinh mà không thông qua quá trình khơi gợi hứng thú nơi bọn trẻ để cho chúng tìm đến "tri thức đích thực".
(I went through this in a political theory class back in my own university days.)While I feel I understood what Whitehead was trying to express, I found it extremely dry reading and in the end (after several weeks of having the book on my bedside table), I had to force myself to read the last 30-40 odd pages.
Primarily because of the nature of the subject matter, but also because of the way it’s expressed (extremely erudite language), this is not a book (I believe) many will force themselves to wade through.

One of the better education books that I've come across, that actually deal with many of the philosophical concerns underneath, instead of presenting certain dogmas and uncritical thoughts.
My favorite passages of the work was found in Chapter 5, On the Place of Classics in Education.
In public schools, at least in the U.S., it's clear to me that a classical education, with a focus on philosophical issues, thinking, or training, is clearly lacking.
mere increases in output and productivity, as education is most commonly assessed, organized, and designed to produce.
For me, the most interesting and valuable section of this work was section 7: "Universities and Their Function." Should be yearly required reading for all those working in higher ed.
I wish someone would write an update outlining how we might integrate this approach into the realities of 21st century teaching.He also makes the best case for technical dedication I've ever read, and every piece of evidence he provides is still valid almost a century later.A few noteworthy passages:"You cannot put life into any schedule of general education unless you succeed in exhibiting its relation to some essential characteristic of all intelligent or emotional perception.
His name came up in a course on the history of higher education and I was intrigued by the thought of a foil to Dewey.
Numerous courses taken at both the undergraduate and graduate level required reading/interpretation/application of Dewey, but not Whitehead.
Particularly interesting was his discussion on "Universities and their Function." The ideas posited in this section of the book I thought would be good for application in the high schools of the 21st century, if only we could get administrators, business leaders, and politicians to look at education in the light of Whitehead's intellect.
This is a brief look at Alfred North Whitehead's philosophies on education and criticisms of the educational system (which are many). It's something I subjectively identified with having gone to a parochial schools with uniforms or a dress code. His criticism of the American educational system is harsh, but true. If you're fed up with the educational system then this is the book for you.
Whitehead's reference to Hegel is valuable yet forgotten: on thesis, antithesis, and synthesis as a paradigm for reaching into kid's minds. He gets across the purpose of a liberal education and the role of Classics, math, and science in general education (K-12). All of the material is written before 1927, so his ideas on science are dated.
My undergraduate degree in philosophy focused on Whitehead. This was prior to my own conversion. While I now am quite critical of Whitehead, I acknowledge him as an import modern thinker.
Some odd opinions on RE and leaving certificates, but a lot of good ideas on creativity and individuality in the curriculum. Still incredibly relevant today.
Only got part-way through. Starting losing it's impact.
Thoroughly enjoyed the essays on education. The scientific essays, not so much.
my review
Read Whitehead's main essay for Philosophy and Education.
Parts read: The Rhythm of Education, The Aims of Education - A Plea for Reform, Technical Education and Its Relationship to Science and Literature
