https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1026412.The_Empire_of_the_Steppes
This is a great synthesis work on the history of Central Asia that may never be superseded because of the challenges in learning all the necessary languages. It must be understood that this is purely a political history. There is no effort to touch social, economic or demographic, literary or architectural history. The other GoodsRead reviewers who complained of the lack of maps, pictures and other illustrations are highly justified. With very little trouble, this excellent political history could have been transformed into a more informative book for the amateur reader.
That's from the forward to the 1970 edition in English, and I might just end my comments there.It is a sweep of steppe history, and captured my imagination: his descriptions of steppe art; his portrait of Jenghiz Khan, and the latter's similarity to Attila.
But for that 'majestic sweep' and steppe history seen as a follow-on whole, for his brave attempts to characterize such as Attila and Jenghiz, and not least for his open mind and sympathy with nomad peoples - I'm so glad that by mere accident, I started here.
For example, early in the book Grousset talks about the Hsiung-Nu, a Central Asian nomadic people who attacked the Chinese empire in the first century A.D. According to Chinese sources, the Chinese fought the Hsiung-Nu off, and they exited Chinese history after being driven into Central Asia to the West of China.
Grousset claimed they are the same people, having traveled across Asia during those three hundred years, passing through an area where no one was recording history.
But the questionable Hsiung-Nu-Huns claim made me wonder what else in the book might not have held up.Grousset is also very conscious of which groups are Persian, Mongol, Turkic or Chinese.
His biases are showing, and I would really love to see someone re-translate with a knowledge of all the material released form Mongolia since the fall of the USSR, however I still give it four stars for its thoroughness on covering the topic.Note: I skimmed this for a research paper, focusing on the late 13th century and early 14th century.
Osmanlı İmparatorluğu Tarihi Ek Okuması #2ÖSYM ile ringe çıkacakmış gibi hissediyorum kendimi.İstekleri kadar tarih sorabilirler.
Halil İnalcık'ın tercüme edip Türk Tarih Kurumu'nun "Stepler İmparatorluğu: Attila, Cengiz Han, Timur" adıyla yayınladığı kitap, Asya steplerinin göçebe halklarının tarihi açısından bir başyapıt niteliğinde.
Bu çerçevede Cengiz ve Timur'un, keza kurdukları imparatorlukların tüm yönleriyle karşılaştırması kaydadeğer.Grousset ayrıca, step göçebelerinin yerleşik medeniyetler karşısındaki hayranlık ve nefret duygularını, ele geçirdikleri mamurelerde bir süre sonra eski hakim medeniyetlerin tesirine girerek "erimeleri ve kaybolmalarını" başarılı bir şekilde tasvir etmiş.
Velhasıl, içerisindeki fazlasıyla ayrıntılı tafsilatla tam bir başvuru kaynağı olmasının yanısıra, erken dönem Türk tarihi ve bilhassa Çin, Orta Asya ve İran Türk tarihi açısından da mutlaka okunması gereken kıymetli bir eser.
Interesting and very helpful, as it covers a lot of history, and tends to relate events simply; however, the book is full of biases, particularly an orientalist bias.
The first two chapters of the book are hard to get through, especially for someone like me who didn’t know anything about the region before reading the book.
I’d actually recommend skipping the first two chapters and start with Genghis Khan as that is when Groussett’s writing shines the brightest.This book is considered to be a must read for anyone who is interested in Central Asia and I think that’s true for two reasons.
Rene provides a surprisingly insightful look at Batu’s achievements and his place within Genghis Khan’s kingdom.
I would recommend skipping to the chapters that discuss Genghis Khan as that is the heart of the book.
It's showing its age, but Grousset's work used to be the definitive work on the topic and it still stands as an essential read.
For a translation and for an older volume written by a well-known scholar of his time as an academic history of this under-researched portion of the world, this book is fairly readable and interesting.
In places, to be sure, it will come across to the modern reader as dry or overly academic, however, it remains perhaps the very best one-volume work on its topic and despite more recent research in Central Asian studies, no one can match the overall depth and scope of Grousset's efforts.
That said, this book helps the reader formulate a strong basis for further study of Central Asian history.
This is a very ambitious and impressive book.
I knew little about Central Asian history when I began reading, and I learned a lot in the process.
The first section of the book is a pretty slow read.
It contains a wealth of information about many different tribes and cultures, so it's very hard to absorb it all.
The second and third sections of the book form a more coherent narrative because they focus on the Mongol Empire.
This makes them somewhat less difficult to read, but I still wouldn't call them easy.
Except two kinds of problems it is an impressive book.First, some problems are on knowledge related.For example, Zhu Huang, the Chinese king in 907 was not Kok Turk authors gave. Maybe the reason is he want to improve the continuity.Second, Huns as recent opinion are supposed to be unrelated to Hunnu. This kind of problem is lead by time, as this book is wrote in 80 years ago.Anyway, the problems never block it to be a great book that have ability to draw a picture of Steppes.
Sweeping political history of Central Asia. Must have bought it 15 years ago and through starts and stops, I finally just started over and read it cover to cover. At times the minutiae leaves one wading into small bits of history one never really cared about. His work on Jenghiz Khan and the Yuan dyansty - alone - make the work worth the read. But be prepared for some lost chapters as your eyes glaze over court revolutions in secondary dynasties.
A book I almost finished some years ago when I was living in Nukus, Karakalpakstan. This heavy brick of a book (ca 550 pages) by one of the great authorities on Central Asian history was first published in 1939. It is very thorough, but maybe not the ideal first introduction to the topic. I hope to read also the remaining ca 70 pages sometime in the future.
This is the first book I read about Central Asia, and I like it so much that I read it a second time to take notes. It has a tremendous amount of information, but the writing is vivid and kept me turning the pages. It's easy to find the cities and maps of the areas online. This book made me want to read more, and it has been a good base for subsequent books I've read.
As others have said, this is a thorough account of Central Asian history to the eighteenth century. Some of the concepts are a little outdated, but there really hasn't been anything of this calibre to replace it.
Well written, but a bit like trying to take a drink of water from a fire hose in the sheer amount of information presented, particularly when one has little or no background in the history of the region.
Huge in scope, it took me 4 years to read this book. I was working regularly in Central Asia at that time.
This is an excellent, but very comprehensive history. It will be permanently on my shelves because it is so detailed.
A classic work on the history of Central Asia. Very well researched. The best work on the topic.
A useful, if dated, look at the Central Asian steppe cultures.
Incredibly detailed, this book covers even the most obscure Central Asia empire
Страхотна книга, която освен очевидно подразбиращото се от заглавието дава и интересна чужда гледна точка за древните българи и връзката им с някои съвременни народи.
Interested by asian history
Currently reading
