https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/201145.A_Kiss_for_Little_Bear
99.9% I read this book as a small boy - how nice to find an old friend.
I hadn't read any of the Little Bear books in ages (maybe since I was a kid?) but now I want to read the entire series.
I just loved the fun, the humor, the easy flow of the story and the beautiful illustrations that are at once so accurate in portraying animals looking like real animals yet also with the most telling expressions.
I think children will enjoy seeing how the "traveling kiss" unfolds, and parents will have an extra knowing nod to other aspects, like the speedy romance, and the interesting illustration Bear draws for his grandmother ;-) No wonder the Little Bear series is a classic.
My favorite of the "Little Bear" series, it's actually the least sentimental despite the title. Follow the kiss's journey from Little Bear's grandmother back to Little Bear, as the animals are ultimately too lazy or distracted to do it themselves. Hen is downright hilarious: "Too much kissing!" The drawings are surprisingly straightforward (yet still marvelously detailed) for Maurice Sendak. Youngsters will love the realistic animals, possibly even kissing them when appropriate. (My son LOVES kissing.)
This was the first book I ever read aloud, age two, in the bookshop. I still have that very copy. I just reread it today and it's still so adorable and sweet. Highly recommended for any human regardless of age. :)
Little Bear is just unbearably sweet and I can now truly appreciate Mother Bear as well who demonstrates patience and ironic detachment when it comes to the antics of her Little Bear.
The illustrations by Maurice Sendak are beautiful and truly make the stories come to life.
I've read a whole bunch of these stories to my son, and he enjoys them, but not as much as I do I think.
My son seems to like them well enough, but it could be that they'll be better for slightly older children.
I liked that when Little Bear told Hen to give the painting to his Granny, and the Granny gave a kiss to Hen to give to Little Bear, but the Hen did not do it, he was too lazy to do it. At the end, Hen came back and said, "Hey you are not suppose to give that kiss to that guy." And then Hen learned his lesson not to be lazy.
Baby bear made a picture for his grandmother and the skunks married each other because they loved each other so much and the boy skunk was supposed to be giving the picture to Little Bear's grandmother. There were really nice pictures in the book.
Reading with my nephew again. Of course he loved it!
Loved reading this aloud page by page as our 7 yr old translated by reading his English copy. 🐾
My son seems to have fallen in love with the Little Bear Books.
My son loves that the kiss keeps getting passed back and forth until it gets from Grandma to Little Bear.
But the kiss does lead to a wedding and Little Bear and all his friends get dressed up for the occasion.Any book that my children like to read over and over again is a winner in my books, especially since we are now at the point where my son can read this whole book to be.
My son seems to have fallen in love with the Little Bear Books.
My son loves that the kiss keeps getting passed back and forth until it gets from Grandma to Little Bear.
But the kiss does lead to a wedding and Little Bear and all his friends get dressed up for the occasion.Any book that my children like to read over and over again is a winner in my books, especially since we are now at the point where my son can read this whole book to be.
The skunks was a little much for a children's book but they ended the story nicely by allowing them to get married.
I think this book allowed new readers multiple points for reentry and supporting details to fill in gaps.
I understood that a kiss was being delivered even if I happened to miss the skunk section.
I think that this book helps children understand in a playful way what kisses are.
I do not think this book is too much.
I think the author did a great job of putting a game of telephone in a creative way.
Little Bear’s circular story begins in the illustrations on the title page, drawing a Wild Things-styled picture that his friend Hen takes to Little Bear’s grandmother.
In return laughing Grandmother asks Hen to take a kiss back to Little Bear and the fun really begins.
In the end, two skunks get caught up in a kiss exchange until the exasperated Hen gets the kiss back for final delivery to Little Bear and a marriage for the happy skunk couple.The first Little Bear book was published in 1957 and marks the beginning of the popular I Can Read series of books from HarperCollins Publishers.
It is a delightful circular story, meaning it ends where it begins.Little Bear paints a picture and sends it with Hen to give to his grandmother.
Grandmother enjoys it so much that she gives Hen a kiss to take to Little Bear.
The kiss goes back and forth between two skunks several times until Hen comes along and reminds them the kiss is from Grandmother and belongs to Little Bear.
She captures the kiss and takes it right to Little Bear.
Little Bear is happy with the kiss and wishes to send one back to Grandmother but this time Hen declines.
This book begins with Little Bear deciding to create a wonderful painting for his grandmother and wants to ask his friend, Hen, to deliver it to her.
When Hen drops off the painting to the grandmother, she asks Hen to give Little Bear and kiss from her.
While Hen is returning back, she ends up giving the kiss to frog that then passes the kiss to can and all the friends are passing on the kiss from grandmother.
The kiss finally reaches Little Bear and the reader finds out that during the passing of kisses, two skunks fall in love and get married.
A Kiss For Little Bear tells a fun story about giving.
The book begins with Little Bear creating a painting for his grandmother and asking his friend Hen to deliver it for him.
His grandmother asks the hen to give Little Bear a kiss for him.
The chain of events results in many of Little Bear's friends interacting passing on his grandmother's kiss.
The skunks invite all of the friends to the wedding and Little Bear gets to be the Best Man. The illustrations are great!
This book would be fun to use in a classroom to have students work on recalling the series of events.
This is by far my favorite book in the entire Little Bear series.
From the inside joke of Where the Wild Things Are art to the hen scolding the skunks for kissing too much while Little Bear looks on, the book was simply a delight.
I enjoyed the skillful ink renderings, the (once again) creative use of a limited palette of spot colors, and the writing.
Else Holmelund Minarik &  Maurice Sendak were at their best for their final bow.
Even the stage call at the end of the book didn't feel overly sentimental like the previous book did.
I just loved it and highly recommend the entire series.
(My library is lacking in a few areas.) Now that I know I'll have to order the first 4 books since this is apparently the 5th.We both really liked this little story and I loved the fact that 90% of the words are words Julia already knows how to read and spell.Enough people have gone over the description of the book so I won't venture there.
I will say it's a great book for younger kids learning to read - there are a lot of easy words like 'it', 'is', 'am', 'him', etc.
No words that I would say are actually hard for a beginner.The story itself is super cute and got some giggles throughout us reading.
This book is from 1968, and it is a little odd. The pictures are quite odd, too. Little bear draws a frightening monster picture for grandmother and has hen take it to her. From there grandmother gives hen a kiss to send back to little bear, but he finds many different animals on his way who keep transferring the kiss to one another. Just the whole thing is a bit odd. Not one of my faves.
This is one of my favourite books. Grandmother's kiss for Little Bear has quite an adventure as it is passed around the animals. Little Skunk has the best time with it, and it leads to an abrupt and adorable change of pace at the story's finish.
Prose: Modern Fantasy
LOVE LOVE LOVE Little Bear, and this story is so sweet! The little skunk wedding at the end made our day <3
So cute!
I remember these books from when I was a child, and it takes me a bit down memory lane to hear them again.
Basically a story of friendship and little bears determination to make something for his friends.
One of the best books I ever read, dear Else Minarik. It always makes me think of my Nana whom I miss. May God have mercy on you and Nana and grant us happiness and mercy in the Hereafter. Ameen.
Shorter than the other Little Bear books, just one story instead of several, but it's a cute story.
Great!
Do with puppets.“This picture makes me happy”, said Little Bear.“Hello, Hen. This picture is for Grandmother.
“This kiss is for Little Bear”, she said.“Will you take it to him, Hen?”“I will be glad to,” said Hen.Then Hen saw her friend Frog.
Will you take it to him, Frog?”“Sure” said FrogHere’s the kiss, said Hen.Frog hopped off to Little Bear’s house, but when Frog saw a pond he stopped to swim.
Take it to him, will you, please”“Sure,” said Cat.“Here’s the kiss”, said Frog.Cat walked on toward little Bear’s house when she saw her friend Rabbit.
After the young bear finishes drawing his picture, he asks hen to deliver it to his grandmother.
The grandmother was happy to receive the picture and wanted to send young bear a kiss.
This book is classified as an easy read due to its design elements and storyline.
The book is designed with individual pages that include a border with hand-drawn illustration on the top with text on the bottom.
The design, text and illustrations work together to capture and maintain the attention of a young reader so they stay engaged in the story to the end.
These elements also contribute to the understanding of the storyline for the young reader.
