https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23308087-flame-in-the-mist
“Never forget, Sanada Takeo: in this forest, there is no place to hide.” *shivers*This book was just pure enjoyment from start to finish. Japanese mythology, samurai, crossdressing female warriors, secrets, lies AND just the right amount of sexiness. Sure, it's not a perfect book, but somewhere along the way I forgot to care.Flame in the Mist is set in feudal Japan. I keep seeing "Mulan retelling" floating around, but even if you ignore the fact that this is set in Japan, not China, it's a bit
Sure, it's not a perfect book, but somewhere along the way I forgot to care.Flame in the Mist is set in feudal Japan.
Meanwhile, Mariko's brother and badass samurai soldier, Kenshin, is determined to prove his sister is still alive, and find the criminals responsible for the attack.There's some bloodsucking Jubokko trees and forest spirits, plenty of action and bloodshed, even more secrets and betrayals.
I like multifaceted characters; it keeps things interesting.
Things like this:
For at least the first half of the book, I felt like Mariko's intelligence was all tell, no show.
4.5 stars. This book too me a bit to get into, but by the end I was totally fangirling and cannot wait for the sequel!! (Very minor general spoilers here... nothing too serious). "Be as swift as the wind. As silent as the forest. As fierce as the fire. As unshakable as the mountain." The story starts with a young boy watching his father's execution, which provides some background on the emperor's sketchy decisions and the boy's future motivations. This all gets wonderfully complex, but I also do
The main character Mariko has been raised in a sheltered, very privileged life so she could someday marry well and elevate her father's social standing.
She wants to "keep her family's honor intact and prove her worth beyond the marriage market."Her brother Kenshin is a samurai known as The Dragon of Kai. His POV tracks Mariko and shows his hardened resolve to get revenge on the Black Clan for a mounting list of reasons.
At one point the Black Clan goes to a tea house, where Mariko asks a geiko if she's angry to have been born a woman:
Renée has such an incredible knack for immersing me in her worlds--and Flame in the Mist is no exception. The world is lush, the characters absorbing, the atmosphere tense and romantic and awesome. Mariko! Mariko, my girl!!!! I loved her. I need more. Immediately.Pre-order this asap.
But to be honest, no one can live up to smart, badass Shazi, right?
Mariko is a smart, brave, careful, flawed and incredibly original.
I wanted to take her out of the book and get her to teach me alchemy.
But Mariko isn't the only incredible character.
As in Renee's other books, you can expect incredible descriptions of food and clothing and people and scenery--all the lush writing that makes you feel like you are living the story.
I genuinely felt like I had been dropped into Mariko's world.
Renee, you can give me book 2 now, please.
2.5ish*This is a hard one to review for a few reasons.
Namely, I have such mixed feelings.
A lot of people were disappointed by this book because it was advertised as a Mulan retelling but it wasn't really a Mulan retelling, and while I see that complaint you can definitely see how it was Mulan inspired, which is what the author said it was.
Truth is I was bored most of the time, I found it really hard to motivate myself to actually finish.
I thought it was just me being too busy, but it took me 3 tries to actually get through it.
Like many others, I went into this—gorgeous, gorgeous, gorgeous—novel thinking I’d be reading a retelling of Mulan, which suited me just fine.
Mariko and Mulan are both intelligent women who gain strength and fierceness along their respective journeys.
Well, they haven’t succeeded, so now it’s her turn to strike back.You know the peculiar spirits—i.e. the small dragon—that look after Mulan?
As you can see, this is more of a loose retelling of Mulan.
She isn’t afraid to point out all that is wrong with the way men perceive women.
Mariko is serious about her plan to murder the leader of the clan.
Once you get used to it, it’s very easy to get lost in her flowery writing style, and I always love that about her books.I really loved Mariko as a main character.
I think she’s an admirable character and I really enjoyed her story arc.Despite how much I enjoyed reading the story, I quickly realized I retained almost NOTHING about this world and where the storyline is going.
I think it’s just a case of her ABSOLUTELY BEAUTIFUL WRITING STYLE not always matching up with me as a reader.I also wasn’t a huge fan of the romance.
“You do have a flair for the dramatic.”•Although  The Wrath & the Dawn  definitely did not make it into my all-time favourites list, the idea of giving a try to Flame in the Mist, inspired by Disney's Mulan (maybe the Disney movie I adore the most) and set in feudal Japan, still filled me with excitement. Sadly, however, I found that Ahdieh made once again many of the mistakes she'd made in her previous duology as well, and generally I noticed no, or very little, improvement. So let's see wh
It's exhausting because you're forced to be continuously on edge, to wonder what on earth is happening of such importance that the author is presenting it as if 1) the end of the world is near or 2) some character just found out the Answer to the Ultimate Question of Life, the Universe, and Everything.➔ Practical made-up example of how even the most inconsequential events and facts have to be written according to Ahdieh.
I've rated three stars some books that I've enjoyed far more, and, at the end of the day, I didn't enjoy Flame in the Mist.
No title, no description, I don't care. Renee wrote The Wrath and the Dawn. She wrote Shazi and Khalid. I will automatically buy anything she writes now.
Everyone accompanying her dies, but apparently Mariko just couldn’t fucking sit tight in her little box and let herself get burned to death, so she escapes and the entire chain of ridiculous events that is this book begins.Our heroine proceeds to wander around a forest for 20 pages and make grand proclamations about her supposed intelligence and bravery and big revenge plans.
Hell, I would rather read the life story of Yoshi the one-legged cook than another fucking chapter about Mariko.Ranmaru, Yumi, Ren, other minor characters whose names I’m forgetting…I didn’t really give a shit about them so I honestly don’t think they’re worth mentioning.Also……what even WAS the magic in this world??
"The only power any man has over you is the power you give him."   Holy guacamole. This was wonderful.HOW COME NO ONE TOLD ME THIS IS A SERIES AHHHHHH. I WAS NOT PREPARED....Alright. I wasn't that into the first 30-40%. It wasn't bad at all, but I just wasn't really connecting. Mariko is on the way to her betrothed (the prince) when she gets attacked by who she believes is the Black Clan. She manages to escape (as told by the synopsis), but she refuses to return home and tell of her survival u
Mariko is on the way to her betrothed (the prince) when she gets attacked by who she believes is the Black Clan.
I totally get that, and Mariko was justified in feeling that way, but she does bring it up quite a lot.
Almost too much, but whatever.Anyway, about half way through, once we're into the Black Clan hideout, things start to get interesting.
Gorgeous quotes, like the following...
It just felt a bit dry and hard to follow at times.
I felt the same way about Ahdieh's other series too - 'The Wrath and the Dawn'.
So, let's get down to business.To defeat the Huns  “In the beginning, there were two suns and two moons.”   In the feudal empire of Wa, a land humming legends of samurai and mythical demons hunting the woods, a woman's place is to obey her father, and later her husband, with no control over her future. Hattori Mariko, though, disagrees. Her curiosity is never satisfied and she questions, studies and learns, earning the reproach of her family, who, in an attempt to gain political favor, offers he
Renee Ahdieh with her unparalleled talent wove intricately the empire of Wa, its lores and traditions inspired by medieval Japan, and her descriptions brought the pages to life; you experienced every smell and sound, you wanted to relish every dish and wear colourful kimonos, wield a katana and fight alongside black-clad boys thirsty for revenge and justice.
As for the romance?To be honest, I rooted for a different love interest and that's the main reason it took me some time to digest the blooming relationship between Mariko and a certain character.
It has never been met as a compliment, though she had always taken it as one… These men would not want to see Mariko as odd or curious or clever.”Pg 82: “His sister had always been a scholar of reason, devoid of emotion.”Kenshin (Mariko’s brother):⁃	He’s alright I guess⁃	Smart unlike his sister⁃	The last 150 pages left me all confusedBlack Clan Members:⁃	They didn’t annoy me ⁃	But they warmed up to Mariko??
you know that feeling when you finish a book and just have to take a moment to appreciate that it was exactly what you needed to read at that particular moment?
that is what im feeling right now.
i feel so content.
i loved everything about this.
i loved mariko.
i also loved the japanese culture and traditions present in this - it gave the story such a rich feel.
im so happy i waited to read this until the sequel was released, because i am desperate to continue the story!↠ 4.5 stars
This actually wasn't that bad in the beginning except for Mariko's constant repetition of "I am brave and I won't be weak" like every two pages and the fact that the plot and romance were utter shit.If I can go back in time to stop myself from reading, Iwould, in a heartbeat because ew, this was horrible.
constantly repeating that shit for the first 50 or something pages, gets really annoying.Hmmmm here's something wild, shut the fuck your mouth, glue that shit shut my dude, and actually do something that proves your bravery!!!※Is the Black Clan supposed to be terrifying and "so bad" enough to make me piss my pants because ummmmm, I felt like I was reading about little kids trying to play warrior.
Conversation with parts of myself upon finishing:Heart: RENEE, WHAT KIND OF TWISTY EMOTIONAL GENIUS WAS THIS. SEE THIS? *flings crumpled red thing on floor* THAT WAS MY HEART.Brain: BUT HOW. The layered-ness. The prosey-ness. So melt in your mouth delicious. I wanna eat it! Is it edible? *nibbles laptop* No. No it is not. That was a mistake. Why did we do that.Body: *starts singing R. Kelly* I don't see nothing wronnnnnnnng with a lil bump 'n griiiiiiind (this book was STEAMY)Soul: I'm hurting. But I like it? What sorcery is this....In short: pre-order this gem asap.
Which is stupid, and I'm glad I was proven wrong, because I  LOVED  it.
Such captivating, Mulan inspired story, in a world which had an enchanting Japanese backdrop, where the writing was so gorgeous I wanted to lap it up, and had such a bad-ass main character, Mariko.
I loved everything she stood for, determined on destroying patriarchy and finding a voice for herself.
There's a lot of groundwork that has been set up in order for the story to be built upon and develop in the next book and it makes me so damn excited to see where it's headed!
4/5 stars  "Be as swift as the wind. As silent as the forest. As fierce as the fire. As unshakable as the mountain."  You might be saying to yourself, “Wow? A review for Mist in the Flame? Didn’t you promise to post this three weeks ago?”  Actually, you aren’t, but I’m going to pretend you actually care and are.  Which I reply to you. Yes. I was. But I got lazy. It happens. But better late than never. First just a huge thank you for Penguin Teen sending me an arc of this book. You guys are the
If you like action, beautiful covers, girls who are better than you, and some other stuff, this book is just what you are looking for.
However, if you are going into this book expecting the entire plot of Mulan conveyed using the English alphabet and paper, you are wrong.
So, instead of running the opposite direction like  any  sane person would, she disguises herself as a boy and goes undercover in the Black Clan to figure out why the hell they wanted to assassinate her.I'll be honest.
This book is amazing and you should read it.
EDIT : I reread this book and I still enjoyed it but not as much as the first time I read it.
I used to give it 5 stars but I changed my mind and gave it 4 stars instead.
"If I am marching to my death, then I will march to it as a girl.
Without fear."   This book is about a girl named Hattori Mariko, whose convoy is attacked by the Black Clan, when she is on her way to the palace to meet her future husband, the future husband she does not choose and love.
This book is about a girl named Hattori Mariko, whose convoy is attacked by the Black Clan, when she is on her way to the palace to meet her future husband, the future husband she does not choose and love.
and there are still so many more quotes that I love so much that I won't put them here, because you need to read the book to see these quotes.
I swear, when I read this book and I felt like I was looking in the mirror, because I could relate to Mariko so much and Mariko was an amazing character.
the real me is three kids in a trench coat and they’re all Conflicted “The only power any man has over you is the power you give him.” hmm that good post-book inner conflict i honest to god can’t decide whether i liked this book or not, this is like my own brain who keeps passing over me when i put my hand up first and she needs to stopi mean identifying emotions and communicating them is truly such an alien concept, i feel like i’m in a house where my teenage children are having a rogue huge pa
and now that i think about it, it really had no relevance to the actual plot line but surprisingly, that was the only time my brain wasn't the equivalent of the black and white fuzz on the tv when it’s not tuned ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ listen, i had the biggest déjà-vu and i stg it felt like someone stuck in a timeloop living the wrath & the dawn over and over and i'm just a background character who remembers nothing about it but is forced to sit through that and i will actually dissolve i refuse to live that book more than once
Renée is an auto buy for me, so after screaming, I immediately downloaded this and started it.I love Mariko right from the beginning.
She's so smart and so strong, but she's unaware of her abilities.
It was delightful to see her figure out her potential and place in the world.
The members of the Black Clan are interesting and quite the enigma.
I loved seeing their truths revealed.I did struggle with the names and that is my main complaint.
Each character seemed to have several nicknames, official names and titles and they were all thrown around.
I was sucked in right from the start.
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaahhhhhhhhhhhhhhh. nothing like being let down by your most anticipated release of the year.:) :) :) i'm cool. i'm chill. whatever. everybody knows too much salt isn't healthy for your body so i'm gonna try and be rational and keep the roasting to a minimum and everything rated G and family friendly so let's go General Thoughts: i mean, how do you hear "mulan retelling" and not get excited??? sure, Miss Ahdieh and I had our differences in the past, but despite that, i thought we cou
this book feels like it tried too hard to be something it's just not, and you can feel it on every page in every sentence with every word, like............everything from the romance to the plot is so god damn predictable and boring and unoriginal, i don't even know where my disappointment starts or ends.
trying something new.(1) i don't see how this is a mulan retelling (2) what even was the plot either nothing was happening or everything was happening (3) 90% of the time while reading this i was just like, with all due respect, what the fucki couldn't keep any of the characters apart, i didn't know who what when what's happening who IS THIS and i couldn't bring myself to care about anything or anyone.
It really felt like I was reading a book about Japanese culture and had this ghostly feeling of being present in a world of samurais and ronins; I felt bushido – the way of the warrior - the heroine and other characters were following.
The first 30% or so of the book were perfect for me: I liked everything about it; I admired and almost loved Mariko as our main character: her resolve to act, to rise above her stand, which was a hard task for a woman at the time, was admirable.
And before you yell "But it's historical!" go do some research because trans/non-binary people have existed everywhere all throughout history.
Crap like this makes it clear the book isn't written for Japanese-Americans like me, who should be the first people you consider when writing a Japanese story in English.
It's just another thing that tells me this book isn't written for Japanese people.5.
(hide spoiler)]I can't speak for all Japanese-American/bi/non-binary people, and I understand that others might have different opinions.
I've always been attracted to both Feminist literature and Japanese culture, and I am glad to say that this book met most of my expectations.
<3Flame in the Mist tells the story of Mariko, who is practically forced to marry the emperor's bastard son.
I understood that X treated Mariko like he would a fellow man, but I was annoyed nonetheless.
I only managed to like him by the end of the book, when Mariko's secret was revealed.
I SHIPPED THEM SO HARD!The only boy whom I liked from start to finish was Kenshin, Mariko's twin brother.
"Death follows indecision, like a twisted arrow." That quote, the world of this book in general, the Nightbeast creatures and Kenshin (Mariko's brother), were the only great things in this story.
The rest of this book sucked.
I was really really expecting a killer story, after hearing all the hype about it.
It was killer alright...
killed my will power to continue reading it.
Mariko was the complete opposite of what a selfless, avenging warrior lord's daughter is supposed be like.
I feel like I read a knockoff version, instead of A Flame in the Mist because it seriously was terrible😑
"You are first and foremost a person. A reckless, foolish person, but a person nonetheless. If I ever say you are not permitted to do something, rest assured that the last reason I would ever say so would be because you are a girl.” // 👏🏼I 👏🏼 LOVED 👏🏼 THIS👏🏼 BOOK👏🏼 Did not disappoint. Need the next book!
At first, I will admit, I found it hard to remember each and every character, since there were a lot introduced initially, but I got the hang of it and then I was burning through the book without a second thought.#3 CAN WE PLEASE STOP CALLING OUT MARIKO, I LOVE HER OKAY.
We really got to see the character’s in their day-to-day lives #6 Kenshin was one of my favs in the beginning but then he was pissing me off left and right but then Amaya was introduced and I was like FRICKEN HELL I MUST.
I have read very few books set in Japan, but I enjoyed this so much..I plan to fix that.
She writes strong, thoughtful reviews and has excellent taste in books.
And I mean consistently by not only Mariko but her brother Kenshin as well.
Mine for sure would not.I really loved a lot of the characters actually.
It feels like a lot of this book was setting things up for the future.
The complex dynamic of the royal court was certainly interesting.I loved the use of Japanese mythology and history throughout.
All this aside, I actually thoroughly enjoyed the book.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestDid the people who read this book read a different book than the one I read? Because I did not get a romantic, action-packed adventure. I got a slow and plodding story with wooden characters and writing that was rife with purple prose. It wasn't even the fact that I went in with high expectations; despite the fact that Mulan is one of my favorite movies, I really did not like this author's other book, THE WRATH AND THE DAWN, and that was ba
It wasn't even the fact that I went in with high expectations; despite the fact that Mulan is one of my favorite movies, I really did not like this author's other book, THE WRATH AND THE DAWN, and that was based off one of my favorite faerie tales.
I'm sure that wasn't the author's intention, but I think that sometimes people forget that Disney stories are often based off actual folklore from actual people.FLAME IN THE MIST is about a girl named Mariko who is the daughter of a samurai.
