https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17574849-the-guest-cat
I'm no expert in literature, but I'd hazard a guess that any problems readers may have with this book are based in cultural differences rather than any literary failings with the book itself.
The book is very Japanese in that it focuses/describes one element at a time.
The NPR description of this book as a story about a cat who brings an overworked couple together is all wrong, however.
I strongly disagree: I think the book's ending masterfully illustrates how the passage of time affects us all while providing closure to its readers.
Give this book a chance.
...observation is at its core an expression of love which doesn’t get caught up in sentiment. Those green eyes glowing in the dark ceaselessly, endowing the cover of this book with a breath of life, a dream of plenitude - those eyes were an irresistible enticement. An immediate move was imperative; The Guest Cat had to be on my shelf. Unfortunately, my expectations were far too great, especially taking into account the fact that one of the ingredients of this plot is supposed to be a couple who
As an artist meticulously amalgamates the elements of nature with the essential constituents of humanity through the art of ikebana, with the same quiet harmony, carefully selected words interweave with a sensitive and thoughtful outlook on life, creating a luscious prose poem echoing the implacable passage of time.
The simplicity of this story blends in perfectly with the sheer delicacy of Hiraide's language which flows softly, in a whisper; a gentle wave trying to reach somebody's shores and engulf them with meaningful contemplation.
This novella tells a lovely story but didn't resonate with me as much as I would have hoped.
I guess some readers of ‘The Guest Cat' might feel like my students because this book is similar to haiku.
Whereas owners of cats are compelled to realize that, if you provide them with food and water and shelter and affection, they draw the conclusion that they are gods.’ Chibi proves that Hitchens is right.‘The Guest Cat' shimmers with a delicate sense of humour but there are heart-breaking moments as well, full of anger and grief.
The cat teaches them to appreciate and understand the things they paid no attention to before.I think ‘The Guest Cat’ will be especially enjoyed by the readers who used to have a pet or are pet owners.
There is a hole at the heart, in the heart, of this little book, and maybe in me as well.“By moving away, we also would be joining sides with those who forget.”But maybe that’s for the best - especially if your love is without sentiment, or is unattainable.Why Not More Stars?There is beautiful imagery, and there are recurring themes (the guest cat, and the narrator living in the guesthouse of a larger estate; boundaries; windows; a zelkova tree; insects, and lightning), and Chibi is virtually mute.
Not much happens in the book but it is very evocative and I felt a sense of loss when it was finished.A young Japanese couple who work from home live in a tiny cottage on the edge of a larger estate in a quiet part of Tokyo.
The estate has a beautiful old traditional Japanese garden which they are allowed to use by the old couple living in the big house.
One day a stray cat is adopted by their neighbours who named her Chibi, meaning 'little one'.
A very charming and touching story of how a little cat brought meaning to the lives of a young couple.
As a cat-loving freelance writer who aspires to read more literature in translation, I thought from the blurb that this book could not be more perfect for me.
It’s only 140 pages, so I finished within 24 hours, but felt at a distance from the story the whole time.Part of it might be the translation – the translator’s notes at the end explain some useful context about the late 1980s setting, but also conflate the narrator and the author in such a way that the book seems like an artless memoir rather than a novella.But the more basic problem for me is that there’s simply not enough about the cat.
“Cats are connoisseurs of comfort.”  ----James HerriotTakashi Hiraide, a Japanese writer, has penned a soul touching and thoroughly captivating tale about a cat and a couple's relationship in his book, The Guest Cat that is centered around a mid aged couple who are freelance writers and work from their rented cottage and lead a very quite and uneventful life, but one day their life brings purpose as an uninvited as well as the neighbor's cat lands up to their kitchen and starts visiting their household religiously everyday and gradually brings joy and happiness to their quiet life.
I think this might be an example of something being "lost in translation", since much of the profound nature of Asian literature seems to get wiped away in English versions.
But as the plot developed I lost the connection to the philosophical and metaphorical, and at the end of the book I wasn't really sure what the point was, or what I was supposed to take away.
Maybe I read this book to fast and need to read it again, or maybe I need to take a Japanese literature class to understand the deeper layers of the book.
for cross-cultural reasons this was a challenging read; I still struggle with the ending, particularly.The sentence structure and carefully pruned language are sublime and I simply loved the experience of reading the story. Seeing the settings come alive was like watching someone paint in front of me. However I was always aware I was only seeing the surface of the story, missing everything underneath. The translator's notes at the back helped a great deal, and I need to re-read now. Highly recommended.
Its tale is simple – a young bohemian couple is adopted by a neighbor's cat, who is treated as a guest, not a pet.Chibi was a jewel of a cat.
The sort of cat you might see just about anywhere in Japan, except she was especially slim and tiny.I didn't realize until I'd almost finished the book that "Chibi" appears throughout, but that humans – including the young writer and his poet wife – are never named.
A few names appear toward the end, but these are all cats.I like that.The prose is crafted, elegant without being showy.
Takashi Hiraide is best known as a poet, and The Guest Cat reads like a poet's journal.
Appreciate the ephemeral, that is, everything in your life.
Elem, moram da priznam da mi upravo taj uvodni kič daje dobar šlagvort za kratak osvrt na "Gošću", romančić koji je prethodnih dana pazarilo bar 79256278934256 mojih GR i IG kontakata, prvenstveno zahvaljujući preslatkoj mački na koricama, I guess.
Da nastavimo: Život teče, a vreme nas gazi...peva Aljoša Vučković u Srećnim ljudima, dok mu brk podrhtava od muke u nadi da je honorar za snimljene epizode makar dobar, a Hiradeov roman jeste upravo to - ne priča o jednoj slatkoj mački, nego priča o onim prelomnim trenucima u životu, kada se nešto bespovratno promeni, i nikada ništa više ne bude isto kao pre.
Look deeper, however, and Hiraide provides some intellectually stimulating and sentimental lessons on life, love, and companionship.
Hiraide writes “The Guest Cat” in first-person narration, almost in a memoir-recall style.
With is detailed paragraphs and events; there is cause to believe that “The Guest Cat” is a true story.
The problem is, this can feel like loose tangents and causes “The Guest Cat” to become repetitious and boring, at times.
Meanwhile, the conclusion of “The Guest Cat” is peaceful and Zen (like the rest of the novella); but equally inducing reader emotion.
Hiraide rounds out the story well plus provides a memorable ending.
OK, I admit it.
I love cats and I was snookered into this one mainly by the cover and the review wasn't bad at all.
It's kind of like buying wine by the label...if it's cute, I buy it!
Boy, can you get stuck!
In this case, once again, I got stuck.
It was NOT at all what I was hoping for.
Didn't like the writing, didn't like the setting (very confusing descriptions), the characters were less than interesting and the cat was not appealing at all!
That's saying a lot from a cat lover!
I don't recommend it, even for die hard cat lovers...
Jedna od onih knjiga koje će veliki broj ljudi voleti zbog jednostavnosti a još veći broj mačkoljubaca mrzeti kad shvate da knjiga nije životopis jedne mačke kao što su očekivali.' Šta je ovo, mačka uopšte nije glavni lik, osećam se prevareno, ja volim mačke i baš me radovalo da čitam knjigu o mački a ono neko dvoje i kao neki opisi i šta je bre ovo'.Teška vremena prijatelju moj.
Iako se po mnogim kriterijumima uklapa u moj ideal odlične knjige, ova me nažalost promašila.

This story takes place in Japan in the 1980s.
The couple, one a freelance writer the other a proof-reader and editor, work from home.
The style of the writing and the story is Japanese.
Unless the reader has had exposures to Japanese writing, it might be difficult to totally enjoy the subtle parts of the story.
The cat, Chibi, is the center of the narrative.
Typical of a Japanese story the simplicity belies a depth that is executed in a subtle way.
David Smith does a good job narrating the story.
Smith is a voice over artist and audiobook narrator.
Kao sto je vec neko rekao u svom rivjuu, svi smo kupili ovu knjigu zbog slatke naslovnice i zato sto nam je sadrzaj delovao interesantno i misleci da ce biti vezan za macku.Macka, gosca, u ovoj knjizi je kao i sto sam naslov kaze, gosca, odnosno sporedni element koji se promaja kroz knjigu.
Glavna tema je zivot bracnog para i kako je ta ista macka uticala na njih.
Mozda segment koji me je najvise iznervirao je odnos komsinice cija je macka, i bracnog para.
Da li su svi tako nenormalni?
There's no way to be sure just how much the translator is responsible for my not liking this book, but he may be a large part of the reason I finally took the book back to the library about two-thirds of the way through it. The early promise of simple elegance never gets beyond precious word choice, soggy subtlety, and vapid characters. I was aching for light and color, for a heartbeat that never came.
The book works as a meditation on love and loss.
I really enjoyed the way the book cozies up to my experiences as an amateur pet-sitter.
There are some light metafictional aspects where the author talks about how the book came to be put together that really drove home these shared experiences for me.
There's a loving attention to descriptions of place that feels like a point of emphasis in a lot of Japanese fiction I've read.
Of course that's to be expected, since the writer is Japanese.
You do not need to like cats at all to enjoy this book.
The writer is a poet, and it does show, but often when you least expect it.
I don't think you read through this book at once.
It was a bit like reading a book of poems, even though the writing is prose, but with some poetic twists here and there.
If you like Japanese culture, you'll love it.
If you like well constructed writing in which the beauty of the writing alone is enough to recommend the book, you'll love it.
I am completely rubbish at reviews but I could not put this little book down! I became so absorbed in the Japanese couple's life and how they adored the cat. The way the book is written is poetic and very descriptive, so much so that you can paint a vivid image in your mind of how their home looks, how the garden looks and so on. I genuinely just really enjoyed myself reading this delightful book.
The ability of the author to describe ordinary life and ordinary days and an ordinary neighborhood in such simple, profound ways was outstanding.
Although, on the surface, the story could be about the guest cat, Chibi, I think it was more of a story about human relationships with nature of all kinds.
When you recognize and appreciate nature around you, your human relationships are also strengthened.
When you overlook and ignore nature around you, your human relationships suffer.
That is just another opportunity for learning and growth (and, yes, sorrow) but if you have shared that pet with someone else when you grieve together you are additionally strongly bonded.
Scout's lithe independence and grace made her a perfect visitor to our home, but our move to possess her marred that careful balance, and I will always be sad what I suspect was her early demise after she escaped the resented second house.Why am I rambling on about stray cats I knew and lost?
In Hiraide's dainty "Chibi," her light coat, her darting movements, her playful games, I saw shades of my Scout of yore.This novel is also about place in a beautiful way.
It is also dangerous to fall in love with a place in this way; the author and his wife are only renters and will soon be affected by the landlady's loss.
"The Guest Cat" is about a domestic cat called Chibi coming in the kitchen to visit a young couple who stay in a cottage that belongs to the landlady in a greenish suburb of Tokyo.
It's remarkably outstanding since this case has implied unthinkably effective ways in managing stray cat population which in other countries has long become one of the chronic problems, that is, deadly rabies and so has stray dog population that needs to be taken into account by national and local public health administrations.In summary, this is worth reading if we don't mind its irritatingly smallish fonts (designed for young adults?) since this is, ultimately, a clear message to the world to take care of other creatures as mortal living friends to live together peacefully; a reason is that they can't talk any spoken language but via their nonverbal communication from which we should learn to understand and help them feel comfortably safe before a departure dictated by fate finally comes.
Delightful book about a guest cat who visits a couple in their but also looks at life in general too of emotions, loss and longing
Suloinen ja viisas pieni kirja kaikille kissoista ja Japanista pitäville!
Lyrical, simple, not-pretentious, cute.To sum it up: Recommended!
Nicely written. Full of nature of today in Japan. There is a poetic resonance as the author describes the impact a stray cat has when it moves into the neighbourhood.
The back cover of this beautiful little novella is filled with testimonials describing the book with such words as 'gentle', 'thoughtful', 'elegant', 'lyrical', 'captivating'.
I agree with all of those, and I'll add another word to the list - absorbing.I've always been a cat person, and before my current little four pawed darling I had my own 'Chibi'.
A little black and white puss called Holly who lived in a neighboring abode, and started visiting.
More than once I recognised not only Holly, but my current puss in his descriptions of Chibi and what she gets up to.
