https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10798416-the-statistical-probability-of-love-at-first-sight
This was a fun one! It didn't blow me away or anything, but it was cute and fast and entertaining and just what I was in the mood for!
Honestly, for having a name like The Statistical Probability of Love at First Sight and a synopsis promising a British boy named Oliver, this book is pretty damn disappointing.
Although it does deliver on the British boy front (who, frankly, really isn't even that great), it doesn't deliver much else.SPLFS starts off with Hadley Sullivan missing her flight to London at JFK.
Perhaps my expectations were too high; nevertheless, I'm sure that with better written characters, a more intriguing plot, and a more believable romance, this could've been something great.But in the end, The Statistical Probability of Love at First Sight is nothing to write home about.
I guess I am a first-person type as far as these romantic stories are concerned, which makes total sense to me since it's not like the focal point is the world-building here but rather the characters and my involvement in the story.But then, as the story developed, I realized that wasn't it - or rather, only marginally so.What really disturbed me was my inability to like any of the main characters and the message they conveyed through their actions.Let's start with Hadley's dad, a college professor.
Bad timing, girl, even if you don't like your dad, the wedding or the wife.
I think I fell in love.. at first sight.. with this book.I finished reading it with happy tears in my eyes. It made me sad, it made me happy, it made my heart race even though there wasn’t too much action, but the amount of emotions per page were definitely too many for my heart to handle them properly.This book went from the ‘must read’ shelf to the ‘most beautiful romances’ shelf in a blink of an eye. I was caught up in this story without knowing – one moment (around midnight) I started readi
Because this story is not light at all, it’s heavy, so heavy that it holds my heart to the floor, and it made my soul ache.There was this big gap between all the happy moments and memories (the time spent in the plane full of joyful talks) and the drama behind it all, and the meaning of so many phrases that at first sight didn’t seem to mean more than what you can hear, but at the end, there was much more to them.You know, kids usually think they have the right to choose a destiny for their parents.They think that because their parents love them, they must condemn themselves to a life of misery and unhappiness only for the good wealth of their children..
I'm not sure why but I never actually felt like the author managed to redeem her father, I wanted her to create a strong personality for him, so I could see inside his mind and forgive him as a reader, but I kind of felt like Hadley's decision to forgive didn't occur naturally and came out of the blue, simply as a necessary part of the story.Oh well, this was a sweet book and it provided me with a couple of hours of light entertainment.Many thanks to the publisher for kindly providing a copy of this for review.
It’s one my favorite love stories and it happens in a mere twenty four hour period.
Don’t worry about the instalove thing happening here.
That’s something that I can’t stand and TSPoLaFS (did you like how I shortened the titles there, whew it’s a long one) does not have instalove.
It has a progressive, genuine building of a relationship that is sweet and endearing.Both characters are very relatable and I loved their scenes together.
I love being invested in the characters and being excited when reading the story.
This book is one of the reasons why I read!
Who would have guessed that four minutes could change everything?Now this is what I call a plain ol' romantic love story that has everything you want and more.
After missing her flight and sulking around the airport, Hadley meets this boy, Oliver, who has a handsome face and a charming personality.
Hadley's personality is perfect for this novel.
She's upset by her father's wedding which makes her a bit irrational, but she's so loving and down to earth; It's effortless to simply adore her character.
Reading this is like chocolate, it's addictive, incredibly sweet and leaves you feeling simply blissful.
*3.5 stars*it's cute, it's fluffy, and if you go into it expecting anything else...joke's on you! really. it's true that from the summary you think there're gonna be a few more swoony moments and a little less of family drama, but all the same, it's a great relaxing read i would recommend to fans of freshly-written contemps.and of course, i have to add--it really helped that i imagined oliver as this:[image error]suh-woon or what?!
It really is a quick and easy read like watching a cute romantic movie although I strongly don’t think that this is a story about love, perhaps more of a story of new beginnings or second chances or maybe even fate.
Yes, fate is the better term.^^By reading this book, you'll learn a lot about airports since the good first part of the story is set at an airport and an airplane which I really have nothing against because last time I checked, an airport is one of the most romantic settings where lovers profess their love for each other.
This book was so cute and was the perfect thing to read to get out of my slump! I was a little reluctant to read it as I've heard many negative reviews, but I really enjoyed it! I even liked the fact that it wasn't solely focused on romance, and I am a romance-junky. There was also a sprinkling of London, which of course I loved.
This was just an alright book.
It had the potential to be super cute and adorable but ended up just being pretty meh.
I didn't really love that it was written in present tense - it made the narration voice feel super weird at different points - and I feel like the relationship didn't develop at all which isn't surprising since it's extremely short and the main characters are going through their own stuff that they have to deal with.I did like, though, that both the characters had things they needed to work through, even if the resolution of those things felt rushed over the last two chapters.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI read this book for the Unapologetic Romance Readers' New Years 2017 Reading Challenge. For more info about what this is, click here. Given my hatred of insta-love, picking up a book that literally has the words "Love at First Sight" in the title was probably unwise. How could I resist, though? You were all losing your shit when this book came out, calling it romantic and cute and feel-good. As much as I enjoy darker romances, we all need
You were all losing your shit when this book came out, calling it romantic and cute and feel-good.
THE STATISTICAL PROBABILITY OF LOVE AT FIRST SIGHT has several issues that kept me from enjoying the book.
And when he seems like he's maybe less than happy to see her at his father's funeral, uninvited, her little feelings get hurt.
I guess I can see why people like this book." The second half of the book is cheesy and annoying, but in the way that daytime TV shows are annoying.
Very enjoyable and endearing book!!! I'm looking forward to the movie which is due to come out this year.
and it was lol, I have no idea how to explain yet.
It was a simple story really, sweet, the beginning of a bigger one for Hadley and Oliver; but there were so many little details and things that just made the story so great and complete.
I'm smiling like a fool right now, I seriously can't wait to re-read it.
It's such a beautiful book that every time I glance at it I just get a bigger smile, and I'm sure it's going to be that way for a long time.
Oliver and Hadley were perfect.
Not in a no fla
It was a simple story really, sweet, the beginning of a bigger one for Hadley and Oliver; but there were so many little details and things that just made the story so great and complete.
I'm smiling like a fool right now, I seriously can't wait to re-read it.
It's such a beautiful book that every time I glance at it I just get a bigger smile, and I'm sure it's going to be that way for a long time.
Smith, she did a wonderful job with this book, and like I said earlier, you can tell this is just the beginning for Oliver and Hadley.This is a must-be-in-your-shelf book, no doubt.
For the title made me remember and desperately wish for a remake of an almost 40-years-old German young adult novel I have read and savored several times in spite of its ugly cover and its boring title: David und Dorothee.
Am I right to conclude, that Hadley's dad was the one with the love on first sight, which in his book allowed him to leave his wife and his daughter without much ado and without seeking out his daughter for a real conversation before having her adorn his his wedding reception as the only stranger in the midst of his newly acquired friends and family?
While I like the quirk factor of the phrase ”The Statistical Probability of Love at First Sight”, I’ll admit that there’s a part of me that reads that line and scoffs.
(hide spoiler)]The Statistical Probability of Love at First Sight revolves around the serendipitous meeting of teenagers Oliver and Hadley at JFK, waiting for the red-eye to London.
It’s been a while since I’ve read a book in third person present, but after the initial adjustment, I feel that it suited the story.
A very light read indeed. I skipped bits here and there and finished it in record time. This is a book you might take on holiday with you. I wouldn't! Do I now believe in love at first sight? Well...I always did anyway, but then I am a romantic.
The story is sweet, in the scenes with Oliver, and heartbreaking in the ones with Hadley's dad and family drama.
This wedding is the last place she wants to be because she's still angry with her father for leaving her and her mother, two years earlier.
The parts with Hadley and her family were very heartbreaking and while her feelings change toward her father, I couldn't help but stay mad at him.
I didn't see anything in this story that justified his actions, and my heart ached for Hadley and her mother.
So, this book is a little unbelievable, but so is the idea of love at first sight.
And in spite of that, The Statistical Probability of Love At First Sight manages to be a cute read.
Hadley and Oliver spend 3 hours waiting for a plane and 7 hours together on the flight, and then they loose sight of each other at the airport.
I think what Hadley's father did is pretty unforgivable, I think cheating is never ok, but he does get brownie points for at least breaking it off and not sticking with her mom while continuing the affair.
This book was so beautiful. Oliver was so kind to Hadley.
Hadley’s spent a lot of time avoiding her dad after her parents broke up; she’s angry and frustrated at her dad for abandoning her and her mother and moving to another country.
First I found Hadley’s mum infuriating at how she kept pushing Hadley to go to the wedding, considering the rough time she had after her husband left her.
And then Hadley’s dad; I really wanted Hadley to do something; she had all this pent up anger about him abandoning her and her mum and re-marrying so quickly and the way she was going on about it I thought she would, but it just seemed that she forgave him too quickly.
The love story was cute enough, although I found Hadley and Oliver's interactions rather bland ~ sweet dialogue with no real tension or mystery.
However, It was light and fluffy and entertaining enough and would probably make a cute transition to the big screen (it does read rather like watching a movie).It was a bit disappointing seeing all the hype around this one had me convinced I would love it.
It is a short 200 page breeze of a read which could appeal to readers of younger contemporary YA looking for something light and easy.
Me while reading this book: Stage 1:Read the first page and I was like "It's going to be really cute and adorable! Yes, this is exactly what I need!"Stage 2:Stage 3:I don't understand the point of this book. It basically has nothing new or interesting. It's just another cliched story.Believe me, I do enjoy contemporary novels or I used to. I get easily annoyed if the story line is very trite and cliched. I mean, what's the point in having a different title, a different cover and different chara
I mean, what's the point in having a different title, a different cover and different characters when the story is just like every other story?!There isn't a single redeeming quality about this book.
This book was short.Hadley, our main character, seemed very dull and uninteresting to me.
Oliver seemed okay but soon he got boring too.
The rest of the characters also fall under the "boring" category.There's nothing to the story.
Then, she attends the wedding, forgives her dad for leaving her and her mum and ends up with Oliver happily ever after.
End of bloody boring story.
It's not that anything particularly interesting was going on in chapter one, nothing like that, I just connected with the character's voice - which was a huge plus - making it easier for me to enjoy the story from the beginning.Unfortunately, even though I enjoyed the cute story and Hayden & Oliver's romance, there were also negatives.
Basically, the entire time I kept thinking, "This would never happen." Then again, it's a story, so I shouldn't be acting so surprised.Another negative was how sometimes the conversations between Oliver and Hayden felt a little dull.
And when their lock eyes, for some reason, she doesn't like the thought of them going their separate ways.
I may not believe in love at first sight, but for some reason, I was able to watch this particular love story unfold without doubt or weariness.It all started when Hadley' father received an opportunity to work at Oxford for a few months, the only problem?
As if Hadley coming to his wedding was supposed to make things magically ok.But there are some truly beautiful moments in this book.
Instead, I felt like the father got it way too easy, and it ended a little too perfectly.
[image error]Aww! I loved it! This is a young adult book. There isn't any "steamy" scenes in it. There isn't a lot of cursing or anything like that.This book was just such a sweet, fun, and all around enjoyable read. I honestly didn't realize how quickly I was flipping through the pages.So not only is it a sweet read, it's a quick one!
wow that was cute. i sort of went into this with lower expectations based on the mixed reviews, but i really like the jennifer e. smith's writing and the way she conveys emotion. i dig it. i'll definitely be reading more of her books.
I WANNA MEET MY AIRPLANE SEAT SOUL MATE. I WILL EVEN SETTLE FOR A BUS SEAT SOUL MATE. I'M FLEXIBLE - IN ALL THE WAYS THAT COUNT.
" —¿Es mejor tener algo bueno y perderlo, o no haberlo tenido nunca?"Ahora mismo necesito respirar o corro el riesgo de morir asfixiada por las lágrimas.
pero no es solo eso de lo que va esta historia.
Hadley Sullivan, una neoyorquina de 17 años, debe viajar a Londres para asistir a la boda de su padre, al que no ve desde hace un año.
Debido a algunos percances, la joven pierde su vuelo y durante la espera del próximo, conoce por obra del destino a un apuesto inglés, que ¡oh casualidad!
Me han gustado mucho algunas frases que fui anotando en las actualizaciones de lectura, y el final me ha dejado con una sonrisa tonta en la cara y eso me encanta!!
