https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2372.The_Path_Between_the_Seas
I had barely started it when we left on a cruise of the Panama Canal, sailing from LA.
This book is a detailed, non-fiction account of France's selection of the canal site in Central America, the politics, diseases, intrigues, and construction of locks and "Big Dig".
I forgot all about the cruise ship activities and buried myself in this book.
I read it desperately night and day, hoping to finish before reaching the canal.
Cruise ship stage shows?
I did manage to finish the book before reaching Panama.
Then I found that the travel across the Isthmus was as intense as the book itself.
After its crushing, psyche-changing defeat, France decides to continue the war not on the field of battle (where it would have been destroyed again) but in the great works of the world- the Eiffel Tower, the Statue of Liberty, the Suez Canal and finally the Panama Canal.
France was a nation on the decline and its inability to rationalize the Panama Canal, execute the plans, and face its challenges were all signs of a faltering people.Enter the United States.
The book does a solid job describing the people, both the named principals and the relatively faceless masses of men who dug the canal.
If you are a history nerd like myself then this book probably deserves the 4 stars that I have given it.
The first half of the book is devoted to the French effort that started the Canal in 1880.
The American effort is the heart of the book and probably what most readers are interested in learning.
The book is no less detailed but this detail is more about the actual digging of the canal and how the project was approached by the succession of chief engineers.
I mean, sure, it's still a palindrome, but it's just not true!A MAN, A PLAN, A CANAL, PANAMA!A M A N A P L A N A C A N A L P A N A M AThere wasn't "a" man, there wasn't even "a" plan.
Teddy Roosevelt, in classic Teddy Roosevelt style, went after it but couldn't decide (and frankly didn't care) where to build or how, he just wanted a canal built, and some of the glory (if not all).
But it's also rather dry reading, and in the middle section McCullough assumes you know all about Latin American politics of the time.
(AND YET…) “The United States had a mandate from civilization to build the canal, he [Theodore Roosevelt] told Congress on January 4, 1904…”—page 387Reading very much like an eighth-grade textbook— pedantically packed with a densely detailed, confusing, and virtually meaningless litany of facts, figures, names and dates—especially the first two-thirds of David McCullough’s behemoth, THE PATH BETWEEN THE SEAS: The Creation of the Panama Canal 1870-1914 presents a serious challenge to slogging on.
“The creation of a water passage across Panama was one of the supreme human achievements of all time, the culmination of a heroic dream of four hundred years and of more than twenty years of phenomenal effort and sacrifice.”—page 619NOOKbook edition, 731 pages (624 pages, before Acknowledgments and Notes)
You wouldn't think that a book detailing the creation of the Panama Canal would be an exciting and quick read.
I love David McCullough, I think he is flat-out the best biographer out there as well as being one hell of a history author.
1776 is my favorite book about the American revolution.
It's not simply a story of the Panama Canal, it is a story of everything that multiple countries and governments went through to bring this grand project to fruition.
Amazingly well-written, but I expect no less from Mr. McCullough.
In his typically lucid prose, McCullough wrote a complete history of the building of the Canal.
From the disastrous French attempt at building it to the American struggles and finally success, the reader is given the full story.
As the media covered the story as it unfolded, the public was kept apprised of the methods that were employed to make the rate of disease drop dramatically.
What wasn't mentioned or cared about was that while the rate of disease dropped exponentially among whites, it remained high among blacks and very little notice taken of that.
Building the canal was a monumental feat and McCullough gives it its due.
It takes a lot of slogging through statistics to read this book, which is what you expect from David McCollough.
3. Medical science did not know what caused the deadly yellow fever.
4. Some in the United States congress and other influential people, namely Theodore Roosevelt, favored a canal route through Nicaragua.
7. No one knows how many died in either attempt, though in the U.S. period, some statistics were kept.
What I didn't learn that I want to know is the story behind the U.S. relinquishing control of the Canal in the 1990s.
This book tells the complete story of the building of the Panama Canal, beginning with the French efforts from 1870 to about 1889, and then continuing with the U.S. completion from 1902 to 1914.
I found the parts describing the actual building of the canal (by both the French and the U.S.) to be the most interesting parts of the book.
Early U.S. failure to obliterate these diseases using treatments by Dr. Gorgus that were nearly guaranteed to work (and eventually did) was frustrating.For me the most interesting part of the book was the description of the construction methods used in the completion of the canal locks.
McCullough book about the Panama Canal shows the hubris of De Lesspes who was the brilliant builder of the Suez Canal through sand but failed miserably in Panama as he had never even been to Panama and thought you could build a canal in a jungle.The hardships endured by the people who did finally build the can were unbelievable with malaria, rock slides and oppressive heat.
See how the French company that had built the Suez Canal was a shoe-in for this one but just wasn't up to the task -- and how American muscle (Bucyrus steam-shovels, for example), planning and problem-solving (particularly in the matter of Yellow Fever) finally got the job done.
The kind of book that is utterly factual, yet makes you proud to be an American.
David McCullough includes the background of domestic politics President Theodore Roosevelt had to struggle against to get the Canal funded (U.S. trunk railroads were opposed to the project, for instance).
Probably no one writes more complete – and exhaustive – histories than David McCullough.
In “The Path Between the Seas,” one of his earlier works (1977), McCullough guides you through the political, financial, and engineering intricacies of building the Panama Canal, a modern wonder of the world.
It’s a fascinating read, especially if you enjoy history, politics and geography.
The opening of the canal – and control – allowed the United States to maintain a two-ocean navy, and provide security for some of the important sea lanes affecting world commerce.
Thank Teddy Roosevelt for completing the project; thank Jimmy Carter for giving it away.
The engineers who undertook these feats traded friends, family, free time and any semblance of a normal life* to build these things and they did so without any hope of financial windfall beyond a very unspectacular salary.
He does an especially nice job of describing the oppressive atmosphere in Panama, and the challenges posed to the French, and eventually the Americans as they tried to conquer that unforgiving jungle.The only reason this gets 4 stars as opposed to McCullough’s more typical 5 is that I thought he spent a little too much time focusing on the non-canal-building parts of the process.
McCullough, David. THE PATH BETWEEN THE SEAS: The Creation of the Panama Canal – 1870-1914. (1977). ****. Deemed a popular history, this immense study is more of a scholarly text. The book won the National Book Award for history in 1977 and was a best seller. McCullough, as usual, has done his research and has provided the history of the canal from its inception in the late nineteenth century by the French to its final completion by the Americans in 1914, at about the time of the start of WW I.
McCullough, as usual, has done his research and has provided the history of the canal from its inception in the late nineteenth century by the French to its final completion by the Americans in 1914, at about the time of the start of WW I.
I was amazed at how much of the task was completed by the French under the direction of Ferdinand de Lesseps – the grand organizer of the project.
The Panama Canal, however, was a much different kettle of fish, and ultimately led to a financial debacle that involved the French government and the average investor, the French citizen.
This huge project was bigger than anything ever attempted up to that time, it was the first major project to use electricity and as luck would have it, the constant interest in the canal ended on the day it opened because of a "minor" event in Europe called World War 1.My only criticism of the book is that the first few chapters of the book about the French involvement with the canal and the machinations within the US Congress to choose either the Nicaraguan route or the Panama route were extremely long.
Tan titánico como el tema que aborda, este libro es sorprendentemente ligero de leer.David McCullough tiene un estilo de escribir que recoge lo más importante de las personas y los hechos sin hacerte sentir que te está dando un listado de cosas pero tampoco sin distraerte con detalles que no son fundamentales para entender a las personalidades y situaciones de las que se desprendió una de las construcciones más impresionantes que haya hecho la humanidad.
Fueron tantos los actores que intervinieron en muchas áreas de especialidad que es una confirmación del talento de McCullough el que deje una impresión tan clara de cada uno de ellos, al resaltar las cualidades y defectos profesionales y personales que impactaron directamente en este proyecto.
I read this out loud to Dan. I really didn't think we'd finish before we left for Panama, but we did it!
And this book is loooong.
I really enjoyed it though.
This is the first McCullough book I've read and I'm incredibly impressed with the amount of research he puts into his writing and loved all the details.
It made seeing the Canal so much more impressive.
I only wish McCullough would have gone into a little more depth with the actual engineering of the canal, but the politics behind the project and all the problems and solutions were fascinating.
A riveting window into another era...French first and then American. An audacious dream and a stunning feat. Personalities, politics, science...timing. Tragedy, failures and stupendous success. We will be visiting the Panama Canal next month. It will be a far richer experience having read this beautifully written history.
2019 planning
The book tells the story of the men and women who fought against overwhelming odds to construct a passageway between the oceans from the time the French began the project to when the Americans finished it.
After reading this book you will be astonished that the canal was completed.
A disturbing underling story was about the horrible treatment of black workers.
Southerners did not want to lose their pool of cheap labor, so they blocked efforts to recruit black canal workers from the land of the free.
I give this book my highest recommendation and also recommend that you put a trip through the Panama Canal on your bucket list.
The book has two major parts: the valiant but costly failed first attempt by the French to build the canal and the successful second attempt by the Americans.
Both the French and the Americans started with the idea of just digging a massive ditch across the Panama to join the Pacific to the Atlantic – with no locks.
In addition to the engineering story, McCullough spices things up with the story of how the United States and Theodore Roosevelt used a jiu-jitsu move to grab control of the canal zone from the Colombians.
I'm listening to this on Audible and I can't go on. Just leave me here on the shores of the Chagras River to be swallowed up by the next rainy season. Maybe I'll rally like the Americans and finish the job, but I'm gonna need to take a break and dry out first.
How interesting is the subject?The Panama Canal is one of those subjects that is kind of esoteric.
It is something that is out there, probably has an interesting story, but nobody would actually write a history book on the subject, right?
The book tells the story of the Panama Canal.
The first 20% discusses the origins and ideas of the Canal.
In this section you learn about the early debates that occurred during the 19th century as engineers and politicians discussed the idea of a canal.
McCullough did a good job at making the history of the Panama Canal interesting.
After all these years, this was the first time I have read about the building of the canal and I found it fascinating.
While reading, I took a brief look at the current Panama Canal and it obvious that there have been some major changes since my brief visit 55 years ago.As an interesting aside, approximately half a century (49 years) passed between the completion of the Panama Canal in 1914 and my visit in 1963.
It has now been more than half a century (55 years) since I visited the Canal Zone and this year 2018.
The hardship to build the canal should overwhelm all of us. McCullough is a great historian and historical writer.
An extremely detailed account of how the Panama Canal was built. Since I have visited the Canal a number of times, I figured it was time to learn more about it and I'm glad I did.
I had wanted to read this book for some time having visited Panama and seen the mighty canal achievement for myself.
The book is a challenge; long and densely packed with detail, some more interesting to me than others.
At times I wanted the rambling political descriptions to be over.
Panama is a place of stark contrasts with its modern city and shopping malls and the sight of colossal ships making their transit through the canal just a stone's throw from thick, dripping rainforest.
What it must have been like for the workers of the canal with no modern conveniences is emphasised again and again by McCollough.
I was a young E-3 at the time but I worked on the administrative staff of the base commander.
Due to the upcoming closure of the military bases and transfer of the canal to the Panamanian government in 1999, visits from US Senators were somewhat frequent.
It was during once such senatorial visit that my commander invited me along (he usually invited one member of his staff).
While it was a very exciting adventure for me at the time, it was many years before I grasped the amazing, historical experience that I was given.
This was a very interesting and informative book on the dream of connecting the Atlantic and Pacific oceans with the Panama Canal. The book starts with the involvement of the famous French designer and construction manager of the Suez Canal and France's eventual failure, and finishes with the US completing the job. It contains all the engineering difficulties, political intrgue, medical discoveries, labor relations management , and construction management challenges you could ask for. With the completion of the canal, Teddy Roosevelt's dream of the US becoming a world naval power could become a reality.
Lengthy, but McCullough's historical writing reads like an adventure story, and he really sets the stage with historical events surrounding this engineering feat. Yellow fever, malaria, political skulduggery, heroes and villains all play an active role in this story.
