https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/197563.Everybody_s_Autobiography
The book flows nicely if you're reading it out loud, but not so much the rest of the time--and it's far too long to read out the whole thing.
Various parts of Stein's life are endearing; I quite liked her stories about growing up, her fascination with pulp mystery books, and virtually anything to do with Alice Toklas.
I have a feeling that if I had a liking or even greater familiarity with the other work, I'd have more to respond to.
As it is, I really admire the book's composition--it's impressive to make something feel so crafted and simultaneously so much like improvised frree speech--but I'm more indifferent to the rest of it.
Even if one has a knack for arresting observation, referring repeatedly to oneself as a genius will annoy yes it will annoy one's readers even if the readers like the book yes they like it.
And so naturally science is not interesting since it is the statement of observation and the laws of science are like all laws they are paper laws, as the Chinese call them, they make believe that they do something so as to keep every one from knowing that they are not going on living.
After all if you ask a question unless not even then when you are very little is the answer interesting, if there is an answer why listen to it if you can ask another question, listening to an answer makes you know that time is existing but asking a question makes you think that perhaps it does not.
Afinal você está mais ou menos em comunicação e de qualquer maneira se você muda você continua a dizer isso mais uma vez, e afinal a mecânica é uma coisa empurra outra coisa mas quando acontece de ficarem juntas sem empurrões isto é apenas ficar juntas dizendo alguma coisa é claro que isso não tem nada a ver com entender.
A única coisa que qualquer pessoa consegue entender é a mecânica e é ela que faz com que todo mundo sinta que é alguma coisa quando está falando dela.
This was probably the most lucid of Gertrude Stein's writing. I am not sure if that is a good thing, though, because it made me dizzy. Stein did have medical training, so maybe most of her writing was crafted to work a certain way on the brain. Perhaps the woman was the genius she claimed to be.
It was interesting to know how bewildering it was for her to achieve widespread success with The Autobiography of Alice B.
I enjoy the flow and rhythm of how she writes, and/but it takes some time to catch it.
I still I wonder how she managed to have so much free time and how easily she had money, which seems to be a key component in her composure and general serenity (this is going from what I got out of the writing, not some general commentary on her life, about which I know almost nothing).
Her sentences still make my head hurt sometimes, but I found myself captivated by Gertrude Stein and her account of what her sudden celebrity meant to her. Moreso than in "Alice B. Toklas," I can understand how she could have been a much-liked and sought-after personality. Her account of her trips to Chicago and tour of the Midwest particularly resonate. Now I have to find out the identity of the St. Paul newspaper reporter who almost lost his job by opening his story about her visit with an homage to the way she writes.
Only Gertrude Stein would have the sheer balls to write a book with this title. Oh, Ms. Stein, the issues I have with your attitude are legion, but you sure can write. I find Stein's non-fiction more compelling than her fiction; the authorial chutzpah of it all is part of what interests me. And this is an interesting book full of name-dropping and puffery and Stein's usual fabulously pell-mell circuitous circular prose.
The fascinating sequel to "The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas" in which Gertrude revels in her new-found celebrity, gives a famous lecture tour in America, and hob-nobs with the greats of the day, proving that all the world is her salon. Full of wonderful expatriate insights about America, and vastly entertaining.
This is the bk where she supposedly says "there's no there there" about Oakland. She's actually referring to the house she grew up in. The bk describes her coming back to Oakland and discovering that the house she grew up in has been torn down. That's what she is referring to. Read this bk and I bet you can figure it out.
A little too self-righteous, constantly praising her own unique genius status. Whilst Gertrude has some interesting observations and reflections, and her stream of consciousness writing style is certainly unique, the story has little substance to merit such a long read.
Philosophy, psychology, politics, history, literary and artistic criticism...all packaged in a seemingly endless stream of "linear" observation and amiable, anarchic writer-to-reader conversation. Simply a delight.
Self indulgent.
There is no there there.
Eh. This wasn't as fun as the Autobiography of Alice B Toklas - it got a bit much. It was less about the gossipy doings of her circle and more and more about the nature of art and genius.
Wow. Challenging, dense, an accomplishment!
This book was unique in that it talks about a lot of the famous people of the time and is written in a very unique way.
In this memoir recounting the glory years that followed the success that was "The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas," Stein makes observations that are deep and refreshing and witty then other times shares a thought that is so "out there" that you wonder if she really believes what she's writing or is just committed to not putting any filter between her brain and the page. I was often delighted, periodically disturbed, and ultimately reaffirmed in my belief that's she's consistently one of the most interesting writers I've ever read.
Tinha lido a outra biografia e me apaixonei pelo estilo de Stein em todo espelhamento que a A autobiografia de Alice B.
O livro tem vários episódios racistas (o que se explica mas não se justifica pelo contexto histórico), um elogio a fascistas e uma referência quase que simpática a Hitler - a publicação é de 1937 e Stein (lésbica e judia) devia estar completamente mal informada.
Mas o melhor é o problema da identidade que Stein aborda o livro todo (eu sou eu porque meu cachorrinho me reconhece - uma ótima alternativa ao Cogito?).
Stein was not amused by the success of "The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas", which she felt was not her best work. However, this did not prevent Stein from attempting a follow-up bestseller, "Everybody's Autobiography". This follow-up fails to capture some of the lighthearted magic of the earlier work. It plods at times. Stein's ambitions are never on better display than in the title of this book.
