https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33613.Born_on_the_Fourth_of_July
This was a difficult, almost painful book to read.Ron Kovic was a United States Marine who did two tours of duty in Vietnam and then was tragically wounded, becoming paralyzed from the chest down for the rest of his life.
Kovic delivers a powerful message about war and our government.Kovic’s 1976 novel describes his wounding in Vietnam and his dreadful time after that in VA hospitals.
As horrible as Kovic’s descriptions were, like Night, I felt like it was important to read, to honor his story and to recognize that the lessons he imparts, from experience, needs to be told.
I knew Ron Kovic personally.
He used to frequent the restaurant I worked at so much so that there was a dish on the menu named after him.
Every dish on the menu was named after an author.
Ron liked to have a steak with cottage cheese and fruit, so that was his dish.
He would come to the restaurant and say to me, "I'll have me." He was very kind and funny and even flirty.
He gave me the copy of his book, autographed, with his calling card tucked into it, which I still have.
It's a great book, as well as a personal treasure of mine.
The book looks short and reads fast.
Am reading with intense interest...OK, getting close to the halfway point now and this book is quite sensational, really.
From the confusion and hell of war it segues into the hellishness of immobility, impotence, dependence, loneliness in the VA hospital then to an intensely familiar and sweetly nostalgic section of reminiscences about growing up in the paradise of suburbia USA in the 1950s --- a period during which the pervasive nationalistic propaganda seeped into Kovic from seemingly every source --- and on to the marine recruiting office in 1964 and off to the mercilessness of boot camp.
Die Vorlage dafür lieferte die Autobiographie von Ron Kovic.Als dieser 1968 querschnittsgelähmt aus dem Vietnamkrieg zurückkehrt, fühlt er sich von seinem Land verraten und schließt sich der Friedensbewegung an.
Als Kind, das am Nationalfeiertag geboren wurde, konnte er es kaum erwarten sich den Marines anzuschließen und für USA in den Krieg zu ziehen.
Juli ist die Antwort auf die Mär des heldenhaften Soldaten, der für sein Land einsteht und ruhmreich und gefeiert aus dem Krieg zurückkehrt.Eine brennend emotionale Schrift, die aufzeigt, dass Pazifisten die wahren Helden und Patrioten sind.Brutal-ehrlich und leidenschaftlich geschrieben.Die Seiten fliegen rasend schnell vorbei, doch die Botschaft hallt nach.Wichtig!Wertung 4/5Mehr Rezensionen und abenteuerlichen Content auf http://awesomatik.com
I picked up this book to see the transformation of a patriotic GI into a Vietnam Veteran Against the War. I wanted to learn how the movement enticed him, when he had his epiphany, and how he reacted to the rest of the anti-war movement.
I wanted to read the author grappling with the decision to join the anti-war movement.
Unfortunately, the epiphany lasts only a couple of pages, and the conversion from skeptical injured veteran to strident anti-war activist is pretty sudden.
His purpose in writing this book was to explain to Americans why they should be thankful for his sacrifice and the sacrifice of others.This true story brings people together reminding people, how thankful we are for our soldiers, fighting for their country day in and day out.
This book is very similar to his book,Around The World In Eight Days, which is a story about his time in the war.In my opinion, I enjoyed the book for what it is.
It made me understand the sacrifice, thousands of people go through everyday.
I highly encourage others to read this book, because everybody needs to understand the true meaning of sacrifice.
An extremely powerful and effective anti war book. I've read a few of these over the years, but the first two chapters, particularly the account of life in a veterans' hospital, was without doubt the most harrowing that I've ever experienced. Not an easy read, but definitely worthwhile.
Born on the Fourth of July should be required reading for seniors in high school. It is more effective than Johnny Got His Gun. This book shows the side of military service hidden by the politians and gunho military which is crippling and deadly. The cost of war is not just monetary but mentally and physically injurious to our young men and women.
Powerful and moving.I happened to listen to this book on audio and would add that the narrator does a fantastic job and brought the story to life in a way I'm not sure just reading words off the page would've done.
I must admit I saw the movie before reading the book. The book is very well written. Mr. Kovic switches narrative from first person to third person rather effectively in telling the story of his life. It is a powerful and thought provoking memoir.
I have to say that I have found Born on the Fourth of July to hold a fascinating view point on the Vietnam War. This book is far different from most anti-war novels of the era.
In this way the novel becomes even more enthralling as Kovic begins to explore his new paralytic life, comparing it to the much better days of his youth.The last important point I wish to touch on is Kovic’s treatment of Marines training.
Whereas the first third was almost entirely devoted to depicting the life changing trauma Ron endured directly after sustaining his wound, the second third explores the emotional turmoil he suffers in the months and years afterward.
I also realize that this was written in the 70s, and perhaps this wouldn't have seemed out of place then, but Kovic feels the need to REPEATEDLY tell us whenever he's describing an African American.
I'm not saying Kovic is racist or meant to sound racist but it's definitely not a way of writing about African Americans anyone would use (or get published) in 2012.
Like I said, it's hard to say this without sounding disrespectful of Kovic's service and his injury, which I am NOT...but I think if this book were fiction, it would never have gotten published (or become a hit movie), because the writing just isn't good enough.
This book starts with him wounded hearing the cries of his fellow Marines not able to feel anything below his waste, you feel the pain of his comrades and the intense fear he goes through of him clinging on to his life not sure if he will make it.
Through the book he goes through life changing events in the marines and his childhood as he talks about the sports he played to being in Vietnam.
Once you pick this book up you won’t want to stop reading it, seeing how his life changes through the horrors of war.
Ron Kovic tells his story of how he goes from a young American patriot so enthusiastic and in love with his country; to a veteran who completely opposes it the Vietnam War. I'd never actually read any books about Vietnam until now, but Kovic words completely moved me.
How could people like Kovic give up everything for this country and come back and get swept under the rug?
It was a manageable read about a serious subject but I'm glad I learned more about the war that so many Americans had grown to despise.
I think it is important for potential readers to keep in mind that this is not a literary masterpiece, but rather a stark, gritty and very genuine portrayal of a very personal and traumatic series of events.Unlike so many others writing a book without a literary background, Kovic does not depend on someone to assist him in writing this story.
This didn't bother me at all personally because it made me realize the exact emotion Kovic had when he was going through each of these moments and made the book that much more interesting to me.I would recommend this book to anyone who had interest in the Vietnam War, although it would definitely not be satisfying for someone looking for a linear, precision story.
Kovic does a great job of telling his story in the Vietnam war.
He explains everything he went through in such great detail.
He makes your imagination run wild while you read this novel.
Kovic sends the message to never give up and always look on the bright side of things because Kovic went through a lot after he was injured in the war.
This book is very enjoyable if you really want to know about the life of a Vietnam Veteran.
Kovic finds every way to keep you interested in his life before, during, and after the Vietnam war.
I highly encourage anyone to read this breath taking novel.
Granted, this book might not see publication today, mostly because of its disjointed style and non-existent core, but that does not diminish its importance. Kovic revealed, for the first time, not just the consequences of war, but the anguish of optimism and trust betrayed, the failure of our institutions to protect, respect and care for its members. PTSD is not relegated to veterans and the disenfranchisement Kovic experiences is rampant in other populations too (rape victims, living donors, disaster survivors, etc). If nothing else, his candor brought public awareness to a serious issue and helped change policy regarding its treatment.
I recommend it to anyone who is not aware of the massive tragedy that was the Vietnam war.
It follows the story of a veteran from his childhood full of big dreams, to his time in the war, and to the paralysis of his entire lower body.
His opinions on the war and honor completely reverse as the story progresses.
This book is not for those who cannot handle gory imagery because many of the war and hospital scenes are very graphic.
These particular scenes make the book very intense, but it is the emotional aspects that hit even harder.
I have the same response Anne Rice reportedly about IWAV about the movie version of this---"Tom Cruise???!" For all that, it's not such a bad movie, either. But the book....the book, with its deceptively bare prose, sets about breaking your heart in earnest. An essential memoir of one of the country's most prominent anti-war veterans and veteran's rights activists.
(Owen McKenna Rio Rancho, NM-NY) I read the book in 2 days. Having had the opportunity to visit the Author's hometown, Massapequa, NY, after having read the book. I thought it was amazing of how much details he put into his descriptions. I did not care for the movie, but I enjoyed the book.
we read an excerpt of this in school and I really liked it. I need to read the whole book soon. It is really depressing so i might have to read small parts of it at a time. Ron kovic is a great writer. He painted a picture in my head from the moment I began reading.
This book is a literary fraud. See STOLEN VALOR pp 395-398 There are a few facts in this book that are true,but much is fiction.
Disappointed. Love the movie, though.
Poor writing and preachy.
Ron Kovic describes his Vietnam experience His wounding in Vietnam and his subsequent journey through the Vetrans hospitals of the day. His hopes and his dreams and his anger
awesome, i never saw the movie. long story short, war is bad usa lies
ClassicVery good book, glad I finally got to read it. Better than the film as per usual. God bless you Ron.
Another powerful anti-war novel. Well worth reading.
The Vietnam vets were treated like garbage...first they were sent to fight a war that made no sense, then when they came home, were put in disgusting hovels to pass for a hospital and spit on by their peers.
There was even less awareness about disability then as there is now.The fact that the American people knew that these men were rotting in hospitals that sounded like torture chambers (someone had to know) and were ok with it makes me sick.
I think reading Kovic's story (i read it after the movie) gave me a more realistic portrayal.
Ron Kovic is an American anti-war activist, writer, and former United States Marine Corps sergeant, who was wounded and paralyzed in the Vietnam War. In 1964, being inspired by President John F.
I wanted them to know what it really meant to be in a war — to be shot and wounded, to be fighting for my life on the intensive care ward — not the myth we had grown up believing.
I wanted people to know about the hospitals and the enema room, about why I had become opposed to the war, why I had grown more and more committed to peace and nonviolence."— Ron Kovic, on writing his autobiography.
