https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/521164.Tiger_by_the_Tail
Readers of Chase know that it is quite possible for a woman be so cruel, ruthless and unconscionable that she can even take multiple, brutal murders in her stride.
It starts with poor guy, Ken Holland out for a night of excitement and fun with an intriguing, lovely lady; and his life suddenly becomes a nightmare!
Murder, mayhem, political chicanery, and the type of brutality that Chase specializes in.
It seems there is no way out for Ken as the plot thickens and sickens - but surprise, surprise!
A very appropriate title by the way; imagine grabbing a tiger by the tail!!!
Another fascinating read! "Tiger by the Tail" is, in the expressions of "The Observer," another of Chase's 'madly lucid' stories: A respectable, wedded, bank officer offers into enticement one night in midsummer while his better half is away. In this manner he dives himself into interest and murder that undermine his bliss and future. Criminal government officials, blackmailers, shooters, and other hardboiled characters set the foundation for thirty hours of touchy activity.
I still remember the first time I read this book over a decade ago.
I have read many great Authors and run through pretty much the whole gamut.
Decades and hundreds of books later, I have never quite managed to experience again, the orgasmic rush that seized me whilst reading this for the first time.
Never has reservations against the literary merits of an Author been so irrelevant/obsolete.
Just read this once before you die.
You can thank me later whilst you marvel at the white hot talent of a great Man working at the ABSOLUTE zenith of his considerable creative powers.

So this is James Hadley Chase!!I had thought that I knew what a 'thriller' is. That was before I read this book. Now I understand why he was a bestseller, once upon a time!This book keeps you at the edge throughout. The thrill is there... palpable, within easy reach. The moment you relax, there is a new event placing you on tenter hooks, wanting to know what next?The story has a good pace. The characters are interesting. Atleast, I was really keen to finish the book. A proper page turner!Really liked it!
One of my favourite Chase novels, which I’ve read countless times and still enjoy.
But that one small lapse on the part of this happily married man turns into a nightmare of murder, blackmail, manhunt, and local politics.
Holland, himself shows his true caliber by breaking out of the conventional, rather timid, mould of respectability, and launches into action to save himself; stealing a dinghy from the waterfront, rowing out to a boat manned by known desperadoes, single-handedly rescuing his only witness, and running for his life across sloping rooftops and narrow alleys in the small hours.
A really good read.
My interest is waning on this one. It started out as a kind of neo-Cornell Woolrich suspense story, but then sank into a sort of WR Burnett tale of how a murder affects the underworld and Scotland Yard with an overly wide cast of characters so endless you'll eventually tire of who did what and why they did it. Nothing kills a good story than the introduction of too many characters. I'm not even sure if I'l finish this one. Postscript: I couldn't.
#Throwback2013#It all started here.. My favourite genre! :)My First Thriller Novel <3
4,2
What you'd expect from the hardboiled genre. Cops, corruption, dames...it's the type of story you can't imagine happening in a world that isn't black & white. It starts out overly predictable, but it starts to pick up steam in the last third of the book and some wrinkles are introduced. Enough to make it an enjoyable and not wholly cliched hardboiled crime novel.
This one is another beauty from the maestro, his attention to details of not only his hard boiled characters, but also the way he details the scenery and the background, this is one of his real life novels, A MUST READ FOR ALL AGES.....
Obviously Chase is the monarch when it comes to thrillers. And an unexpected ending as well. A must read for all fans.
awe-inspiring!!
"I really enjoy it but i would'nt tolerate to be a "Fall Guy"
This is one of the best of Chase!
a page turner.
This is probably one of the best by JHC.Plot was realistic and same were the characters.Loved the ending too which is not like his usual ending.
Very beautifully constructed plot. Page turner for sure. Series of events within 24hrs changing a common Bankers life
Fasicinating...Loved this one....must read...
This is possibly the best book by James Hadley Chase. Gripping, suspenseful and filled with twists and crime drama.
