https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1695570.Hospital_Station
Each plot revolves around an unknown or unusual alien whose mysterious medical condition has the Doctors and Diagnosticians (i.e., super docs) racing against time to piece together clues and come up with a proper treatment for the patient.Historically, this series is regarded as defining the sub-genre of medical science fiction and is noteworthy both for its central source of dramatic tension (i.e., medical diagnosis rather than war/fighting) and for the broad range of imaginative alien physiologies encountered in the stories.
Out Patient: Conway, O’Mara and the gang are in a race against time to diagnose a strange alien whose physiology seems to include characteristics that are medically and scientifically impossible.
He managed to create a truly pacifist sci-fi story, that I like to describe it as more Star Trek than Star Trek itself.
This was managed by creating a medical drama in space, to the point that everyone would describe this series as Doctor House in space.
I only partially agree with this description, yes, the stories center around real medical puzzles but they don't include Dr House's famous cynical line: "Everybody lies".
A story about a massive hospital (ok not so special) that is in space and deals with aliens (ok thats different but hardly award winning) but which treats them all with equal respect and consideration where the aliens predicament and situation is the story now how bad they are or what hidden agenda they are working on (ok that shifts the focus) and for me makes James White and his sector general series so special - there are so many ways that the story can turn and so many cul de sac's it disappear down yet it does not.
Wow, where do I start. Unlike common sci-fi, this book is about humanity and ways to extend it beyond limits. I felt reminiscent of Babylon-5 and Star Trek in a positive way, they were 99% inspired by this book. Inside you find loosely coupled five stories, but together they build a whole universe with loveable creatures and heroes. I’m sold to read the whole series.
What keeps this rather cliché setting interesting is that we see this Universe, not through the eyes of some hardy explorer or rugged military leader ala Captain Kirk, but from the perspective of doctors running “Sector General,” the major one-stop shop in the Galaxy for medical services.Now, not minding the fact that it would be incredibly inconvenient to transport wounded or sick individuals thousands of light years to get necessary medical treatment, this does give us a rather unusual setup for original problems for the characters to solve.
In particular, his characters are not collaborators, they are basically the rugged individuals of the exploration novels, only in a different setting.
"That would be yes, then," O'Mara said drily.Earth-ling, male, the mysterious administrator of this giant hospital and, most importantly, head of the Psychology department.
No one knows what he does in his spare time (and if he has any), and everyone fears to end up in his office, if only because of the famously inconvenient seats.The first novelleta of this book gives a hint on how millitary officer O'Mara ended up in charge of this giant hospital.Dr. ConwayVery intellegent, ambitious Earth-human, male.
Often works with the diagnostics deparment and is one of the highly esteemed nurses of the hospital.MurchisonSexy nurse in the Pathology department, female Earth-ling.
To be fair, it might have just been because I was twelve or thirteen at the time, and hence really not all that appreciative of medical fiction in the first place - despite a (slowly-fading) desire to be a doctor at the time.Recently, though, I discovered James White's Sector General series, mostly because I stumbled on the short story collection Hospital Station.
I'm about to start on the second book (and first novel), Star Surgeon, and already I'm looking forward to how Dr. Conway, Major O'Mara and the rest of the people at Sector General handle the cases headed their way.
Alien Emergencies  was my introduction to the Sector General series. It contained books 6 through 8, so I could have opted to read Book 9 next but instead decided to go back to the beginning, Hospital Station. Although several of the stories do reference each other, Hospital Station is basically an anthology containing five short stories, so I'll be reviewing it as one. All in all this was...okay. “Medic” and “Out-patient” were good, but the other stories all disappointed me a bit, for various
I missed getting to see the full cast of characters I'd gotten to know in Alien Emergencies.“Medic” This story introduces O'Mara, the man who later becomes Sector General's Chief Psychologist.
The only reason it worked for me this time around was because I felt that Conway had slightly better justifications for his actions here than he did in the previous story, but it still made for harrowing reading.Additional Comments: Just like in the Alien Emergencies omnibus, when O'Mara told Murchison that she couldn't use an Educator tape because female minds can't handle them, I was annoyed with the way female medical staff were written about in this book.
Fratelli GalatticiDa giovane, White voleva studiare medicina.
Perché della Vita siamo tutti figli.Nonostante l'autore ricorra spesso a termini scientifici, il romanzo arriva comunque al cuore e alla testa del lettore, e quasi sempre fa centro in modo intelligente; quella di White è una Fantascienza che punta più sul senso che sugli effetti speciali.Mi ha divertito leggerlo, e se spenderete qualche ora tra le corsie di questo ospedale, alla mercé di razze tutte da scoprire, sono certo divertirà anche voi.
Una sorta di "Dr. House" in versione SF, con una gradevole vena ironica che rende la lettura molto scorrevole. Lo stile però è molto lineare, senza virtuosismi degni di nota.
Very nice SiFi series. Interesting concept and good main characters. Recommended
Добра, много добра.
The details in the book largely resemble the descriptions of extraterrestrials in 'Memoirs of a Spacewoman' (although this novel is much softer sci-fi than Mitchison's work).The age of 'Hospital Station' excuses its more technical fallacies, like using a syringe more than once for vaccination (until, and it says so explicitly, the needle becomes dull), or very poorly thought out Universal Translators, or the inclusion of the rather magicky telepathy and heightened empathy.
While the last bit is still excusable due to age (the possibility of either shrinks like a pair of bollocks in the neuroscientific frost), James White relies so much on them in the last two stories (keyword: Prilicla) that it becomes tiresome.In short, this novel makes me very excited about the rest of the series, I almost regret not giving it five stars.
I really wanted to like this one, but it never really improved for me.
I thought the aliens were fairly well realized, but then I found myself comparing to another great early creator of aliens, A.E. van Vogt.
I found myself comparing both the writing style and aliens to van Vogt, particularly Voyage of the Space Beagle or War Against the Rull, and neither White's style or aliens compared favorably for me.
On the plus side, their was plenty of color and fun, and I liked the way the station was built around different environments to accommodate a wide variety of sapients.

A hospital in space, home to many species, often unknown or mysterious. Each chapter is one short story of a case, you could say it's House in space, but without drugs. In theme and content it's very similar to The Voyage of the Space Beagle, both deal with using knowledge and intelligence to solve an alien problem. Unlike Space Beagle this one just isn't as much fun: the solutions work because the reader is withhold information, and then pages on pages are spent to explain the solution, the characters are boring.
“Галактическа болница” от Джеймс Уайт за мен беше много приятно и неангажиращо четиво. Макар сюжетът да не е нещо, за което никой не може да се сети, досега не бях попадала на книга с подобна тематика. Освен това не съм много на „ти” с научната фантастика (мой пропуск) и ми се струва, че и за други хора като мен ще е чудесна, за да се запознаят и да „навлязат” в жанра.Цялото ревю: http://knigoqdec.blogspot.bg/2016/08/...
The writing is a little uneven, but the overall concept, s space station hospital that treats a variety of life-forms, is solid and interestingly presented. Each chapter is a short story linked yo the previous one, rather that a novel presenting a single plot. Each story starts with a problem and ends with a unique solution, often requiring major out of the box thinking by the main character.
Minus jedna gwiazdka za to, że choć akcja dzieje się w dalekiej przyszłości na olbrzymiej stacji kosmicznej, to więcej bohaterów ma macki, sześć odnóży albo oddycha chlorem niż używa rodzaju żeńskiego. Sigh.
This is the point where Occupation: Warrior coincides with the story.Subchapter VI--Conway reconsiders his attitude toward the Monitors--inappropriately, in my opinion.
At this point, a new story should really start, because this subchapter ends with a ship piloted by a very ill casualty crashes into Sector General.
As for providing Monitors with guns that can't be used any other way than lethally...well, I have to say that Conway's inexperience might have been part of the problem, but it's not a good idea in general.
The format is fairly formulaic: the main character has an enigmatic alien patient that presents with some kind of problem, the MC figures out the right course of action, and though things become more hectic for one reason or another, modern medicine wins the day.
The very first story I was constantly wondering why no one could just ASK someone of the relevant species how to solve this (apparently) common illness that the MC had to figure out.
The rest of the novellas it's kind of a structural thing: the stories make the patients mute and far from home or from a species hitherto unknown.
Even better than that is finding a pretty damn good new author who also has an extensive back catalogue.James White certainly falls into this category, having released 28 books in his lifetime, of which half belonged to the Sector General series (of which this book, Hospital Station, is but the first instalment).
There is no overall story arc, for one thing, unless you consider Dr Conway’s rise through the hospital ranks as he treats one new extra-terrestrial patient after another.Whatever its origins, it’s a great read, detailing life onboard a massive, multi-species hospital in space.
After reading The Long Way to a Small, Angry Planet (Wayfarers, #1) I was looking for other similarly positive sci-fi, and some place recommended this one.It's old, I think from some time in the '50s or '60s. So it has a lot of the "we can solve everything, and science and technology are good and will help us" mentality of that time, and in a way that was really, really refreshing. However, even though the book makes every effort to be open minded about alien species and ~gasp~ female equality,
So it has a lot of the "we can solve everything, and science and technology are good and will help us" mentality of that time, and in a way that was really, really refreshing.
However, even though the book makes every effort to be open minded about alien species and ~gasp~ female equality, my perspective in 2017 makes it sound quite sexist and bigoted at times.
The whole shift in perspective, and the fact that the book clearly tried to show its future as a time that will be more egalitarian and yet chafed was one of the most interesting aspects of the book.
Lots of references to interesting science trivia.
I love that the aliens in this are so, well, alien - I feel like in fiction they’re more often than not some degree of humanoid, and that’s definitely not the case here.
(The Telfi were my favorites: they’re radioactive beings that have minimal intelligence on their own but together form a colony-like hivemind.) The stories, too, are interesting and inventive.
The fact that the book was published in the early sixties is painfully obvious at times (even on this futuristic sci-fi space station, all the human doctors are men; when women are mentioned, they’re invariably nurses), but it’s a fun ride overall.
I was attracted to it by the aliens on the cover (not the cover that’s on here).
They looked different, but somehow familiar.
I was therefore extremely happy to find that edition in a bookstall last week, and of course I had to have it!Anyone familiar with Spider Robinson’s wonderful Callahan series will love this, only instead of in bar, the action takes place on a Hospital space ship with various aliens being treated and treating.A great book by a forgotten author, and like all great sf, it asks big questions, and sometimes answers them!
I won't kid anyone - a book where the most notable female is a dinosaur whose gender is not really discussed (but it has psi abilities!) would hardly be a bestseller today, but truth is, I had lots of fun.I like the characters. They annoyed me in a good way. I might be really soft judging this book, because sometimes I wasn't happy with the writing, but you can't dislike the world, the hospital, the system the story presents you. Overall, 4*
Поредицата за "Галактическата болница" на Джеймс Уайт е приятна, оптимистична и пацифистка фантастика. Смес от "Спешно отделение" и "Вавилон 5". Огромна станция, побрала в себе си десетки хиляди лекари и пациенти (от десетки разумни форми на живот) и разделена на сектори, всеки със свой собствен микроклимат, за нуждите на менажерията от физиологии. Освен с лекуването на травми и болести, специалистите постоянно са заети и с отстраняването на фобии и предразсъдъци- свои и чужди.
Interesting stories with an interesting cast of characters and imaginative aliens. Bit heavy on medical descriptions but that makes sense since it's about a hospital. The main character came across as a bit of a prick and self absorbed but not so much that you hate him while reading it. He's just not the most likable guy.
These stories mark the beginning of a classic science fiction series. They hold up very well, and I would love to see a television series about Sector General. Think of the fun the FX team would have!
I first read this around 1962 when it was first published. An excellent read. It stands up well even after all these years.
