https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90953.The_Life_and_Times_of_Horatio_Hornblower
While it does detail some information of navy life at that time it is actually a biography of Horatio Hornblower.
As a fan of this genre of fiction I now find myself really embarrassed to admit not knowing that Hornblower was a real person.
I always thought him a fictional character that may have been based on a real person just as O'Brian's Capt.
Well, to my further embarrassment, I failed to read the dust jacket which mentions that it is a FICTIONAL biography of Horatio Hornblower.
But the book is a really good and thorough biography.
I loved this book. I actually thought Horatio Hornblower was a real person because of the way this "Biography" was written. I remember thinking, Who would read fiction when this guy's life is far more interesting. Needless to say it was like waking up and finding out the Easter Bunny wasn't real when I learned that I had been "duped". It is still a very interesting book and well worth reading if you like the Horatio Hornblower books.
As it happens, there really was a Horatio Hornblower and this book covers his life in the more formal perspective of a biography.
S. Forester, stuck pretty close to the known facts in his fictionalized treatment of the Admiral's life.
S. Forester full credit for his work as well as giving an account of the writing of the formal biography.There is new material in this biography not covered in the novels.
I am less pleased with the movie and TV versions due to the usual Hollywood treatment (why do movie makers feel so compelled to rewrite the work of better writers than themselves??) but that's not a matter for this review.I highly recommend this book to any Hornblower fan and even to those who are not fans.
A Biography of a fictional hero how novel. I loved the Hornblower books and while this is okay it covers a lot of minutia, like he and Barbara’s love life, that were not covered in the books for good reason in that it’s not that interesting to the people who like the books. .

If you nowadays dare to even mention Hornblower in your own work of fiction the Forester estate will sue you to hell and back, but back in the 70's people could publish fictional biographies of the character!I think The Life and Times of Horatio Hornblower works best as a companion to the Hornblower novels.
And for those parts especially the reader is better off just reading the actual novels instead, and referring to The Life and Times only when they desire a quick summary of the historical and societal context of a chapter.
A quick note: this book is a work of fiction, and a supremely well executed one, too.Parkinson writes the biography as if Hornblower was a real man, and it is clear that the amount of research that went into it really helped to urge the narrative along.
Parkinson has been absurdly clever with the way he produces new evidence, paintings and images, all adding to the Hornblower legend.As other reviewers have said, I think it is best to read this book during your reading of the Hornblower series.
This must be the best bit of fan fiction I've ever read.
But he finds ways to take advantage--showing Hornblower to be the beneficiary of outrageous Wellesley-granted Old Corruption in getting Bush as commander of a 74 within 12 months of gaining post rank, for example.
The contextualization of Hornblower--suggesting that he was more of a proto-Victorian than a true figure of the his time anticipates Patrick O'Brian's creation of Aubrey as the antithesis of Hornblower's pained virtue.
Forester often seems unsophisticated compared to O'Brian, but one instance here, where Parkinson 'solves' an outstanding question actually highlights Forester's effectiveness in having left it vague.
I've read and enjoyed the entire Horatio Hornblower series, but found the majority of this mock biography to be exceedingly dull.
I had some interest in the early account of Hornblower's life pre-Navy, but after that, much of it, of course, is just a quick retelling of the series, and I didn't enjoy most of the in-between tidbits.
By the end of the book, I was skimming and just waiting for the thing to be done.
I absolutely did not like the appendix answering the Captain Sawyer question, multiple things about it that I found out of character.
No interest in ever reading this book again.
This incorporates the entertaining conceit that C.S. Forester's character Horatio Hornblower was a real-life naval hero, instead of a fictitious character modeled on the career of Admiral Lord Cochrane.It follows the purported real-life career of Hornblower from his childhood as a doctor's son, his first entry into the service, and fills in the gaps of Forester's 11-volume chronicle throughout his subsequent nabval career.
Reached the 100 page mark and punted. The idea of a biography of a literary character was interesting, and Northcote knows his Royal Navy stuff. But he doesn't give much narrative detail to make Hornblower's adventurous life come to detail. Instead, you get a stereotypically British, understated detachment. Nor do you get much psychological exploration of Hornblower's character.
I love the conceit of this book, a biography of an entirely fictional character. I enjoyed the imagined details regarding Hornblower's later life, and the faux correspondence it includes. But I dislike the dry recollections of battles and events that happened in far more lively fashion in the pages of the actual Hornblower novels.
Don't get me started on Hornblower.This book treats him as though he were real in an entirely amusing way. It is pretty good and a wonderful companion to the hornblower series. C. Northcote Parkinson is another nautical writer. I've read another of his books. Life and Times is really good and I recommend it to fans of Hornblower.
An interesting summary of the Hornblower canon if you've only read one or two of the books and want to know the entire arc of Hornblower's career. If I was more of a Hornblower follower I'd probably find a lot more in-jokes and references than I did.
Finally, an honest, complete description of the great (though flawed) admiral's life. Thanks to this work, his estate at Boxley House may become as well visited by tourists as the rooms at 221B Baker Street, home of the great consulting detective, Sherlock Holmes.
It sounded much better than it actually is. The writing is a bit dry. I realize that this is a fictional biography, but still it requires some sort of storytelling. I did appreciate the analysis of certain disputed questions from the books.
A clever "reconstruction" of the life of CS Forester's iconic naval character. Check the "portrait" of Hornblower
Two copies
It's an interesting idea for a book, but that's the best thing about it.
I liked the entire Hornblower books a lot!
amazing - this guy was a real person - I love the entire series which I reread to relax - far better than the Albury series
A biography of Horatio Hornblower written as though he lived as a real person and not someone who only lives in our imaginations.
