https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/136778.Der_Herr_der_Ringe_Anh_nge_und_Register
Most interesting were the parts of the timeline that follow the events of The Hobbit, The Lord of The Rings, and the time between the fall of Sauron and the beginning of the fourth age.
There is a helpful index also included, pointing the reader to important stories in the main text, an index to which I am likely to frequently refer.
I would recommend The Appendices to anyone reading The Lord Of The Rings, but would suggest reading them along with the main text, rather than all at once at the end, as I did.
It's amazing how far Tolkien took his imaginary world, even to in-depth descriptions of different languages and their history and translation to us.
As Tolkien himself said, many who have read the Lord of the Rings and enjoyed it as an heroic fantasy, will, quite properly, not bother with the appendices, as they will feel no great need to delve further into the history of Middle-Earth.
I am not one of those people.There are several different areas covered in this work - more on the history of both the Ring and of Middle-Earth, timelines of important events, chapters on the different calendars and on language and pronunciation.
Who knew appendices could be this interesting?!Fills in much of the backstory of both characters and events.
Es ist ein gutes Buch, aber ich konnte nicht viel daraus mitnehmen und mich hat auch nicht alles interessiert.
Ein muss für eingefleischte Mittelerde Fans. In diesem Buch erfährt man wirklich sämtliche Hintergrundinformationen. Von den verschiedenen Vorgeschichten (z.B. das Kennenlernen von Aragorn und Arwen), Jahreskalendern, Sprachen, Völkern, Schriften... bis hin zu etlichen Stammbäumen, findet man hier alles. Ich finde dieses Buch wirklich sehr informativ. Dies wird einer der Bücher sein, die man zwischendurch immer mal wieder hervorholt, um etwas nachzuschlagen.
ENDLICH weiß ich woher die ganzen unbekannten Storylines aus HdR und dem Hobbit stammen. Super nützliche Hintergrundinfos, die ich - mit Ausnahme der Kapitel zu den Sprachen - verschlungen habe. Jetzt weiß ich leider wirklich nicht mehr, was ich von Tolkien noch lesen könnte...
Short but good summary to the series that connects many previous adventures and clarifies questions that may have remained unclear inside respective story.
The version with the old translation is good, but the new one is not. Anyway the original is always better.
The "appendices and extras" was originally omitted from The Return of the King when it was first published in Sweden. I would say that this was a very wise decision by the publisher (supported by translator Åke Ohlmarks, if I'm correctly informed). These were later put together with parts of The Tolkien Reader and published in this volume. For us that recognize the trilogy as important, impressive and not to be missed - but at the same time in parts wordy and dry as bone, this is very easily skipped.
Tolkien is as impresive as always.
A great and informative read on the lore and history of MiddleEarth. A book that can be read on the side, I feel, as it is more of the historical insight rather than an actual story.Pick it up, give it a go and enjoy! >(^_^)<Gén
Después de terminar los Apéndices se entiende lo grande que es esta trilogía y el mundo de Tolkien, y también entendemos más acerca de algunos personajes de la trilogía. Muy ingenioso, narrado como si fuese parte de nuestra historia moderna, incluso nos enseña el lenguaje y la escritura élfica.
This one was supposed to be part of the Return of the King, not in my edition though. Although sometimes is a little hard to do it, it's a Must-Read for all Middle Earth fans. It clarifies a lot of things about the story and has a wonderful chronology.
Debieron formar parte de El retorno del Rey, pero se publicaron de manera separada en España. Completa la información que se apunta a lo largo de las tres novelas. Interesante, pero sólo si se ve en conjunto.
De la manera en la que todo el universo Tolkien influye en la historia del Señor de los Anillos antes, durante, y después, de la Comunidad del Anillo.
Me gustó el libro. Te cuenta mas sobre los orígenes de la historia de los hobbits, elfos, enanos, señores de la marca, orcos y demas criaturas vivientes en el mundo Tolkien.
#29 1987
Mest olika fakta och essäer, vilka jag inte riktigt orkar läsa igenom ordentligt...
Not especially meaningful. Years after reading it I do not remember much.
