https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/969131.The_Instrumentality_of_Mankind
I ended up being an economist working more in IT systems for a Procurement center, so you have to imagine that the books I have read shifted a lot since high-school.But I still can appreciate a good sci-fi novel, that for me means one that manages to create a fully functional world in the (preferably distant) future imagined.
So I will rate it with a 2 for complexity and difficulty.In terms of credibility, not debating if the respective changes in human society and technology present in the stories are possible or not, I believe the world created by Smith is fairly consistent with itself.
And in my blog, which sometimes gave a running account of my reading, I compared him to Flannery O'Connor in having a moral world view but not always sounding judgmental, just standing back and showing the behavior of people in stressful situations, or people/animal people/and other world people all bumped up against each other.What I found amazing was how the stories tied together to create a future/history of thousands and thousands of years of various kinds of space travel, governmental systems, and values/practices.
This was a very interesting short story collection, early on we are in the extremely far-off perhaps far-out future.
Some of the stories were more haunting than others, but what seemed like a simple foray ends up being such a layered Easter egg of sci-fi goodness that this was a hard book to put down.
There were a few that were strictly in the realm of paranormal which was a pleasant break with all of the world-building and golden era sci-fi material.
Smith had such a unique vision in which this will remain one of more memorable books that I’ve read.
Cordwainer Smith is a forgotten author these days, but I urge anyone who sees any book by him to pick it up, take it home and read.
(Pay for it first!) Each story is a treasure.
I've rationed out my Cordwainer Smith stories so I won't run out.
This man is brilliant, and needs to be read instead of so much of the claptrap they keep putting out.
"Scanners Live in Vain" and "Ballad of Lost C'mell" are amazing.
This book is a good representative volume.
It's hard to tell what I liked most out of these stories.
From Gustible's Planet was probably one of the most memorable for big ideas and big action, but DrunkBoat was seriously creepy and delicious.
I'm always of a mind to pity all of his characters to one degree or another, and it looks like it is well deserved pity.
Of course, I'm reminded of Bester's work, but this was sufficiently clever and taking a different path entirely that I cannot fault it in the slightest.
(I'm only referring to DrunkBoat, here.)The rest of the stories are either also in other editions or are less memorable, but all of them are quite good.
What to add to the already glowing praise of Smith? He brought a unique voice to SF, partly because of his Chinese background, partly because I think he had such an amazing mind, almost anything he wrote would have been surprisingly good. If you are an SF Fan and haven't read Smith, I envy you - you have a whole world of surprises awaiting you.
Some of the stories are amazing (like the classic "The Game of Rat and Dragon")... I was indifferent to some, and a few of them I disliked but the universe depicted is a consistent one and the theme of human behavior toward animals a very dear one to me.
If a young adolescent Phillip K. Dick wrote short stories, I would imagine they would have read something like these very strange, warped, surreal tales.
No one before or since has written like Cordwainer Smith: the strange, soaring stories, with their h
I just love this collection of short stories. Often, when I recommend a book, I tend to gravitate towards perfect books, carefully crafted with no flaws to be noticed. This one is full of flaws, all kind of them, but the final result is nevertheless stunning and moving. Do I feel at ease recommending it, knowing that most will at least like it? No, I don't. Do I still recommend it? Yes, absolutely: maybe you will not like it one bit, but for others this may be the book of their life.
One of the better science fiction writers of his era, but the stories themselves are a bit dry. Except for "From Gustible's PLanet," which is one of the most hilarious stories I've ever read.
I gleaned unforgettable memory implants into the likeness of a Tyrell's android hunted by a Blade Runner,of Paul Moadib riding sand worms, of Endymion falling in love with Keats' daughter - running from a galactic Inquisition,of Ender's game over - talking with trees, of Chappy in Johannesburg...I went to space three than under foundation of The Foundation, and I liked all the way until the Abbey of new saint Augustine...By serendipity of course, it happens that after The instrumentality of Mankind , I came across with two books of Stephen Hawking.
Originally published on my blog here in September 2001.The oligarchy which rules mankind in the background to most of Smith's science fiction is known as the Instrumentality.
This may make it seem an ideal title for a collection of his short stories, but of these fourteen there are at least six - and I would say seven - which are not part of his ambitious future history.
(This is not surprising given that the other collection's original title was The Best of Cordwainer Smith.) Many of them have an unfinished feel, which is mainly because the ideas they contain are not as fully developed as they are in Smith's most successful stories.
Really nice science fiction fairy-tales, mostly from the same universe (or so) spread over thousands of years.
It was meant to be a very hands-off, not-really-a-government, almost libertarian setup, but that obviously changed over the millennia.One of the non-Instrumentality stories, Western Science is Wonderful, is practically not science fiction/fantasy at all: other than the identification of the Chinese demon as a Martian, there isn’t anything in it to make it other than a sort of modernized fairy-tale.
(This Martian’s powers are very similar to those of DC’s Martian Manhunter, who came out a few years earlier.)I think if you enjoy Ray Bradbury, you’ll also enjoy Cordwainer Smith.

It has a nice place among the favorites of mine.The world he created, the way that it's put up and the amazing tech and descriptions are way too fucking hot!!!Love that it's full of short story that all connects together so you can read whatever one around the book.My favorite one is definitely Crunkboat.
The guy travelling that wakes up naked on a yard and can't move at first one.
Oh yeah, they travel with their mind but arrive in real at destination.
Loved the cat co-pilot in an other story, he ruled.So yes, I couldn't do anything else but recommend it.
the full name of this collection is "the instrumentality of mankind", and i don't know why goodreads can't show that (or "shelf" names with apostrophes, and such...).these short stories are some of the most distinctive in science fiction. smith's voice is unmistakable; his imagination awe inspiring. he also, under his real name, wrote the still-currently-used manual on psychological warfare... so, there's that.
Excellent group of eccentric stories set in the early years of space travel. Smith does an exceptional job at world building in limited space. Nowhere else will you find ceramic laminated mouse brains, two dimensional men, or German speaking bears. Really great collection of short stories covering areas from ancient India to alien planets, including extra-dimensional planes, life after death, and psychic phenomenon. Also, man killing Nazi robots. A classic collection.
Good collection of short stories. One of them is somehow a repeat. The stories seemed very focused on what people do when they're left to their own thoughts for long times and how we might deal with that.
a must for any sci-fi and politically minded person.huge comparison between the book, its inherent message and the current state of world politics and the overall human state today.Cordwainer Smith's commentary is as relevant today as it was when the book was written.
+ еще несколько смешных и совершенно гениальных рассказов, особенно про шпионов и военспецов хорошо получается. и да - Херберт Хувер Тимофеев, конечно, очень смешно, но за "Постсоветских православных восточных квакеров" Смиту в Сибири надо памятник где-нибудь поставить
Die Saga von der Insturmentalität der Menschheit ist ein gewaltiger Mythos, niemals wurde so komplex, so bizarr und emotional so fesselnd die Geschichte der Menschheit über zig Jahrtausende hinweg sikzziert und literarisch so kompetent umgesetzt...
Well that was a pleasantly hilarious compilation of vintage sci-fi short stories .
Some of the stories are weird and others are very interesting. 'Nancy' was my favorite.
isbn,original
SO AMAZING. i love his crazy words and names.
Classic.
When I was reading it I thought it was kind of ridiculous but looking back the stories ended up being mostly memorable in a good way.
The author was advertised to me as "bit like Philip K. Dick, but different". Turns out, it was a good " different". It had a bit of Larry Niven too. Color me intrigued.
