https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/337615.Nine_Parts_of_Desire
Anyway, starting over...." Read, in the name of thy LordWho hath created all things, whoHath created man of congealed blood.Read, by thy most beneficent Lord,Who taught us the use of the pen,who teaches man that which he knoweth not."The Koran: The Chapter of Congealed BloodI have been living, working and travelling in the Middle East since I was nineteen years old.
Now that I have moved away from Arabia after living there for three years, I was ready to read a book about women and Islam.
I kept reading the book with great interest primarily because of the stories Brooks shares with us about the amazing, regular women she had gotten to know in her work.
The historical Mohammed was much more respectful of women than many religious leaders today in Saudi Arabia or Hezbollah, for example.
This example demonstrates that women in Saudi Arabia still aren't driving because of cultural beliefs, not Islam.
Before reading this book, I remember looking at the woman who were completely covered by their berka and thinking how repressed they were.
My landlord at the time gave me his copy and I although I was hesitant, I agreed to read it...and I am so glad I did!
The book explains how God gave men one desire and women the remaining nine, hence the need to cover.
A friend in college, Zeneb, was from Turkey and fully agreed to being fully covered at all times when men were around.
Reading this book brought me closer to her and to all the women I once believed to be repressed...
A distinction between culture and religion really has to be made as I sense that the middle Eastern have very deep rooted cultures that have tangled with Islam and because they form the bulk of Muslim population,at times there is a confusion.The more I study islam in its pure sense ,the more I am drawn into it .religion has been abused by man since the days mankind was created.
I would have liked to see more discussion of the places in the world where Muslims live alongside other religions in relative tolerance.
I felt the book omitted a needed discussion of the Muslim women (and men) who had left their home countries when fundamentalist regimes gained power.
And yet the book tries to pin the injustices it discusses purely on Islam, rather than the regimes in power in the middle east.
Brooks seems to say, yes, there are Muslim countries where things aren't so bad, but still, all the problems they do have stem from Islam.
This was also the time period when I was traveling regularly to the Middle East and was reading a lot about the region, so there was really nothing new in it regarding the religion, history or culture that I didn't already know about.
I do agree 100% with her assertion that the real villain has been Saudi Arabia ( the government and not necessarily the people themselves) all along and it is time for the Western countries to accept this.
Although this book truly was well written, I am fed up with reading books "about" the Middle East or Islam from Western authors (memoirs excepted).
I am buying a copy ASAP (borrowed from the library)Brooks writes, “because this is the kind of sterile, segregated world that (fundamentalists) are calling for, right now, for their countries and for the entire Islamic world.
“At some point, every religion, especially one that purports to encompass a complete way of life and system of government, has to be called to account for the kind of life it offers the people in the lands where it predominates,” Brooks writes, with 240 persuasive pages behind her.
The arguments of cultural relativists, she says, boil down “to this ghastly and untenable position: a human right is what the local despot says it is.”
Nine Parts Of Desire: The Hidden World of Islamic Women is a wonderful informative read.The author an Austrailian reporter who spend the late 1980s and early 90s in the Middle East as a reporter, and during her time there decided to get to know the women of Islam and spent a lot of time interviewing and getting to know these women of different social status and different ages to bring us a very interesting account of Islamic history, Islamic women and the traditions of today.I love reading about different nationalities, religions and customs and have always been interested in learning how other cultures live.I really enjoyed this book and feel that the author did an excellent job without coming across as judgemental or preachy.
The book was selected by a lovely woman who fled Iran 24 years ago, and had lived through the revolution, war and economic sanctions against her country.
Instead of a classic 'book report' I have decided to share the bookclub discussion experience.So, the group met yesterday evening, 9 women and 5 men.
The book was about women in Islamic middle eastern cultures, told through very personal stories.
When I brought up my opinion that it's not the Islamic faith that leads to repression of women, but rather patriarchal cultural practices, I was corrected.
I'm currently obsessed with this book. It's coming up in all my conversations. I even made my 102 students listen to a page and a half or so. Fascinating, horrifying, and terribly important stuff for anyone who cares about women and girls, religion, war and peace. I'm reading and re-reading (when I should be reading and writing other stuff!) and hoping I remember it all.
While Geraldine Brooks doesn't shy away from giving her opinion, she is sensible enough to put the women she met throughout her years as a reporter in the Middle East at the centre of her book.
I came to this because I wanted to know more about what people call "progressive Islam", that is, how observant muslims reconcile their faith to the demands of a modern secular society.
In retrospect, this probably wasn't the best book to search for this answer, and I definitely should dig deeper into some of the authors Brooks herself mentions.
A lot has changed in Iran among feminists--same with Egypt though maybe not enough has changed in Saudi Arabia.
Brooks wants to contrast Muhammad's open views of women in his Hadith with how current Sharia law are more oppressive.
It's an interesting contrast and the point is well taken.
However, she presents too much of a monolith of brainwashed muslim women.
There are many feminist movements and dissident Muslims in these country that recognize the double standards and have been pushing back for years.
It all needs to change.
Hopefully Muslim women will be the agents of change.
I hadn't read anything by Brooks before, though two of her novels are in my TBR pile, and picked this up at Borders going out of business sale because it looked interesting.Brooks is one brave mama, I must say.The presentation is rather interesting and it is somewhat surprsing, at least to the reader, that even women who are fundamentalist or anti-American (or Anti-Jewish even) are presented in such a light that while you dislike or hated thier politics (or isms), you like the women.
This is a far more open approach than what it makes it on to American news, and reminds me of the International News Network before Al Gore brought it and turned it into Current.
But I came on here and found some controversial reviews(duly noting that most people who gave this book high ratings were outsiders, and we all know everyone loves a good heartbreaking story about the injustices of the developing world no matter how distorted it is) so in an attempt to understand what all these people were being told about the Muslim world, I decided to let my curious cat give it another chance, and I'm genuinely glad I did, you should too even if the first few pages, and some pages in between are rubbish.She tried to be neutral I guess, and a lot of the contrasts she drew up were very sadly true (as much as any human hates to have an outsider criticize their culture and norms, I must admit she makes good points.) I just wish she'd revise and republish this for accuracy, we really have enough misconceptions and generalizations attached to Islam and it's a shame I can't give this a higher rating because it does have some substance of value.
Definitely worth reading, but do NOT listen to the audiobook narrated by the author.
She is a good author, but not a good narrator.
However, the book is rather unstructured and reads as a group of different stories.
I liked how the author distinguishes between different sources for current Islamic beliefs - the Koran, the Hadith and cultural practices.I was upset by the double standard so often evoked in the stories.The author clearly attacks the misogyny central to many Islamic beliefs......
(Bad narration!)Very interesting, but not a book where you engage yourself in the lives of the people mentioned.
This book is by the author of last year's Pulitzer winner "March", Geraldine Brooks.
This was written based on her experiences as a reporter in the Middle East, trying to understand what it's like to be a Muslim woman in a number of different Islamic countries.
I would recommend it for that reason; Brooks has no political agenda.
She has a humanist agenda, trying just to understand what the pull is for women in Islam, and what their lives are like.
It's like sitting down with a friend for coffee to read this book.
She starts off this book saying outright that Muslim women are oppressed.
What the hell?bell hooks,Talking Back: Thinking Feminist, Thinking Black, writes "When we write about the experiences of a group to which we do not belong, we should think about the ethics of our action, considering whether or not our work will be used to reinforce and perpetuate domination."In this case I think she's definitely perpetuating domination.
She writes 'about' muslim women, she doesn't tell their story.
She's written countless books on various religions and religious figures, Mohammed included, but one doesn't get this personal opinion shining through like in this book.
The book is now 20 years old, but still very relevant today; Brooks caught an earlier stage of trends that continue today, specifically the rise of fundamentalism.All this is conveyed in a clear, precise journalistic style, mixing anecdotes from people Brooks met with personal stories she witnessed or experienced, along with her research; the chapter on the Prophet’s wives surprised me with the amount of information available about them.
Also – there is more great novel material in the subjects covered in this book than the most prolific author could exhaust in a lifetime, but instead of writing those novels, Brooks went off and wrote about the Plague, and the American Civil War, and a past/present historian story.
I had a really hard time getting through this book for two reasons- first it was extremely repetitive, covering the same subjugation of women in Muslim countries.
Second I became frustrated with these same issues and found myself boiling with rage, mostly because I see so many of these things happening in our country in the radical right's war on women.
The religious fundamentalists of all denominations seem to have an irrational fear of women as an educated, equal segment of society.
This book was written in 1995 , with an Afterword added post 9/11.
The issues are unchanged, if anything have become more extreme.
traditions of the Islamic countries, some of which are still very much backwards (to those of us in the west).I found the book packed with vital, interesting, balanced information regarding religious practices in various Islamic countries.
I assume that makes her statements unacceptable to many people who might read this.This is a scholarly book with readable history of the Islamic countries and the various rulers of those countries.
The only way Islamic women are going to gain some freedom from abuse is for them to find ways to lead their own people.
The book does a fairly good job of describing the main branches of Islamic traditions and why they came about.
And as Salmon Rushdie said to her “make no mistakes.” It’s the kind of book which is easy to criticize as it touches on the touchiest of subjects, Faith and Religion.
Brooks organizes the book into chapters that talk about childhood, education, female genital mutilation, politics, work, family life , to name a few, and gives a wealth of historical background information on the Koran, on Mohammed and his wife Fatima – to bring the reader to the point of understanding how the Islamic world has arrived at their positions regarding women now.
Unfortunately though, the history shows it has it's own share of blots.For most of the book the writer mentions the status of women in various Islamic countries.
Yes it is the hypocritical society of ours and the fact that men dominates.Almost everything that is wrong with Islam is wonderfully summarized in the concluding chapter of the book, "It becomes insufficient to look at Islam on paper, or Islam in history, and dwell on the inarguable improvements it brought to women's lives in seventh century.
It became not just a fact but an insight as I continued reading it.The book's excellence is demonstrated in that 13 years after its publication it is still being read.
Since its publication there have been many books on this topic, including social studies and personal narratives, but this one still stands out.Brooks spent 6 years in traveling to Middle Eastern Islamic countries covering the plight of women.
While there is a chapter on Queen Nour, the book is primarily on the many anonymous middle class women who must submit to decisions about their lives, their health, their time, their children, where they can travel and even their dealth, all made by men.
This is an absolutely fascinating book. Brooks doesn't really bog the reader down with too much "research" - she gives you a good historical and literary background, but she fleshes out that framework with anecdotes from her meetings with Muslim women. Though it is obvious that Brooks abhors the treatment of women under most forms of Islam, she is very careful to show that this is mostly a political issue and NOT actually advocated in the Koran.
An interesting look inside various groups of Islamic women, contrasted with what the Koran says, what the cultures practicing Islam have ended up doing, and other surprises. Good for a general overview, and good for breaking stereotypes. Has a good glossary and excellent bibliography at the end.
For example, clitoridectomy is not mentioned in the Koran, and Geraldine quotes a female Muslim writer who is angry that people don’t know “this was an African practice that has nothing whatsoever to do with Islam.” Geraldine’s well-thought-out response is to wonder why such people “turn their wrath on the commentators criticizing the practices, and not on the crimes themselves….could [the Muslim writer:] not have taken the trouble to reflect that one in five Muslim girls lives in a community where some form of clitoridectomy is sanctioned and religiously justified by local Islamic leaders?”Geraldine is highly skilled at providing an insider’s understanding of and respect for these cultures while simultaneously explaining all of the inconsistencies, hypocrisies, and outright lies.
A very interesting book. As a whole I liked it, it was nicely written. I found the jumping from one country to another, from one occasion to another at times confusing, but the main reason I read this book (information about women and their role(s) in Islamic societies, I got that already :-)
She discusses issues through the lens of a Western lady who struggles to understand the why and how of certain things, yet she touches on these issues in such an straight forward yet kind way.
She asks repeatedly why imams, clerics, and clergymen don't speak more on anti-Islamic practices like honor killings and female genital mutilation while respecting the Islamic context for polygamy or veiling (issues she doesn't like but understands is religious in nature).
We ARE seeing more clerics now speak out against domestic violence, FGM, honor killings, etc.
We're seeing more muftis and maulanas discussing the rights of women and minorities as well as how they can to be restored.
This is one of the best books that I have read that helps Western women really understand what is going on with women in Islam.
Because we often do NOT understand, in being "western" we can often cause more harm than good.
Although it only covers up to the early nineties, it helps us understand the Soviet invasion of 1979, our creation of the Tailiban, and what is really going on right now.
Was not aware that Geraldine Brooks ("People of the Book" - one of my all-time favorites) had been an Australian journalist covering the Middle East for many years.
Her curiosity as to how Muslim women in Middle East Countries felt/reacted to the increasing necessity to totally cover when outside the 'house' plus all the other inhibitions of their activities.
Had been asking the same questions - how could women allow this to be done to them?
I must say this book answered all my questions, and I didn't like the answers.
