https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121715.The_Weight_of_Glory
BOOK #1 FOR BOOKTUBEATHON 2016This was pretty fantastic! I didn't enjoy it as much as other Lewis books, but you gotta admit that he is super eloquent. He has a way of getting to the heart of things that is unlike any other. The last few essays really hit me hard, and I love him for that.Will always love CS Lewis
Just great. Also read in November of 1995. Great. Also read in February of 1994. Also read in June of 1981. Listened to the Audible version in February of 2016. Finished listening to it again on Audible in January 2018.
"The negative idea of Unselfishness carries with it the suggestion not primarily of securing good things for others, but of going without them ourselves, as if our abstinence and not their happiness was the important point."I have 44 highlights in the Kindle Book and I reread it regularly.
In fact, I try to read at least one CS Lewis book every January to start the year off right.
The narration was excellent but I think it is too good a book not to highlight.
Audio is great for review though and I did read this book twice this year.
"To be a Christian means to forgive the inexcusable, because God has forgiven the inexcusable in you." C.S. Lewis' popularity has died in more recent history. Academics accuse him of being too simplistic in his expression (a few that I have read even go so far as to say that he adds nothing to Christian theology), other readers find his style too wordy, preachy or patronising to fully enjoy. I myself, however, love C.S. Lewis' work much like I love G.K. Chesterton and J.R.R Tolkien. He is enthu
Or so I believe anyway.The one great thing about Lewis' work, is that like Chesterton, he is so quotable.
But where Chesterton is a far better wit and academic, Lewis is more laid back and grounded - like a humorous and approachable, if sometimes gruff, Grandad.
The reason, therefore, that I believe many intellectuals (particularly atheistic individuals) dismiss Lewis' contribution to Christian apologetics is because he speaks with honesty and straightforwardly.
I will say that if you like Lewis, this is one of the better works of his that I have read.
I’m recording The Weight of Glory as ‘read’ now, but actually I first encountered this marvelous essay years ago.
It has been part of me for so long I don’t even remember when I first heard about it or haven't had it in my storehouse of “essential documents”.
We are far too easily pleased’ has long been one of my all-time favorites, although it was years before I knew its context.To me this is a magnificent piece of work which speaks to the grandeur—indeed the glory—offered to humanity to live up to the potential which God intended for us.
This book made my reread list.
I love his eloquence.
He often presents powerful messages in a gentle way.
That is a gift.--------------------------------------------------------I've read different C.S. Lewis books over the years.
He is the most often quoted author in Christian religion.
This book, however, is my favorite so far.
I LOVED this book.
It makes me want to be better and to do better.
It was eloquently written without the fire and brimstone speech.
Sometimes books like this, tend to make the reader point the finger at those around them who aren't living up to their professed standards without looking into their own hearts.
Read "The Weight of Glory" here (Feb. 22, 2014). Can't believe it took me this far along in my life to read it. Read "Learning in War-Time" for the first time on Jan. 13, 2018. Read "The Weight of Glory" for the second time on Jan. 14, 2018. Dr. Richard Russell covered these first two essays in our CE class at church, before he gets into The Great Divorce. Started teaching "The Weight of Glory" at Regent in Fall 2018. Still amazing.Read "The Inner Ring" for the first time in Oct. 2018 (taught it at Regent).
C.S. Lewis's Weight of Glory is just wonderful. His writing style is breezy and flows perfectly. His ideas about glory too are really inspiration and thought provoking.And the edition I was reading this in. Floppy paperback and deckle edged! Um yES.
It is a serious thing to live in a society of possible gods and goddesses, to remember that the dullest and most uninteresting person you can talk to may one day be a creature which, if you say it now, you would be strongly tempted to worship, or else a horror and a corruption such as you now meet, if at all, only in a nightmare.
you have never talked to a mere mortal.
But our merriment must be of that kind (and it is, in fact, the merriest kind) which exists between people who have, from the outset, taken each other seriously--no flippancy, no superiority, no presumption.
It's the feeling of, "well, that was that, and it was perfect, and there's nothing more I can even say".Read this beautiful, thought-provoking book.
These things—the beauty, the memory of our own past—are good images of what we really desire; but if they are mistaken for the thing itself they turn into dumb idols, breaking the hearts of their worshipers.
For they are not the thing itself; they are only the scent of a flower we have not found, the echo of a tune we have not heard, news from a country we have never yet visited.”“It would seem that Our Lord finds our desires not too strong, but too weak.
I listened to the audiobook and really enjoyed thinking that I was hearing these speeches as the first recipients did.
Of course, C.S. Lewis wasn't speaking the words but an intermediary is necessary since I wasn't there to hear him.
However, what one soon discovers is that Lewis quickly winds up covering many other topics under these umbrellas, so to speak, and there are always thought provoking ideas and logic put forth for any interested thinker.
We really are all more alike than we are different and I appreciate having his insights to inspire me to a more fully lived Christian life.
A great collection of essays and papers delivered to students during the 1940's.
He's simply a great writer.
He is a great thinker and teacher too.
This book was a joy to read.
That being said, I realized while reading the chapter "Is Theology Poetry?" that he holds some beliefs with which I strongly disagree--namely that much of the OT is mythical and becomes more historical as it approaches the NT.
I do wonder if he would hold this opinion today if he were still alive.
And, heck, you shouldn't swallow everything you read whole anyway.
"The Weight of Glory" and "Transposition" are worth the price of the book, though the other essays--mostly public addresses from the forties--merit pondering. All bring fresh insight to difficult issues of Christian apologetics, even though most were written while bombs of the Blitz still fell about the English audience.For the Christian reader, this collection may provide more food for thought than even Lewis's famous Mere Christianity. I re-read this book periodically and am usually rewarded with new insights. It's not easy reading, but it is rewarding.
The title essay, "The Weight of Glory," is justly famous for its peroration that goes like this:It is a serious thing to live in a society of possible gods and goddesses, to remember that the dullest most uninteresting person you can talk to may one day be a creature which,if you saw it now, you would be strongly tempted to worship, or else a horror and a corruption such as you now meet, if at all, only in a nightmare.
But there is an equally great one towards the end of the book called "Membership" in which Lewis explores the difference between participation in the Body of Christ and affiliation with a collective.
Actual Ratings: 4.25
Great points, obviously, but just a few a little overdone.
Indeed, how we think of Him is of no importance except insofar as it is related to how He thinks of us.""It is a serious thing to live in a society of possible gods and goddesses, to remember that the dullest and most uninteresting person you can talk to may one day be a creature which, if you saw it now, you would be strongly tempted to worship, or else a horror and a corruption such as you now meet, if at all, only in a nightmare.""There are no ordinary people.
As for the other three (“Why I Am Not a Pacifist”, “Is Theology Poetry?”, and “Membership”), I still thought they introduced a new idea to me, and that he argued his point really well, I just didn’t think they were as enjoyable to read.Below here is an inadequate summary of each essay.
It makes you think…In “Is Theology Poetry?”, Lewis argues that in one sense, yes, as any worldview is beautiful to the one who believes it, but that by saying it is poetry, we can’t start to think that it isn’t true, objective reality.

Every time I read Lewis, I leave the book pleasantly exhausted, because especially in his non-fiction writings he is so incredibly dense (indeed, I marked this book as read twice this year, because I listened to a section, then went back and read over it again on paper, just because it was too much too digest the first time around), but he says so many honest things, that I feel the better, wiser, and more connected to humanity for having read it.
Then, the following month, I’ll post a discussion post and let the fun begin!!) You know when you read a book and once you finish you think “huh, not at all what I was expecting.” That’s how I felt after finishing The Weight of Glory.
It always makes for intense, yet awesome reading experiences.One of my favorite chapters was the book’s namesake “The Weight of Glory.” He wasted no time at all.“We are half-hearted creatures, fooling about with drink and sex and ambition when infinite joy is offered us, like an ignorant child who wants to go on making mud pies in a slum because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of a holiday at the sea.
Such a short book. I listened to most of it twice, shocked that it was already over. I was expecting more of what John Piper gets into in some of his works, that you cannot understand the weight of God's mercy and glory until you understand the crushing weight of your sin. Instead, CS Lewis is more day-to-day, and that wasn't what I was looking for when I picked it up. Still good material, but forgettable.
Favorite essays: The Weight of Glory, Transposition, Membership, and A Slip of The Tongue. But the whole book is excellent of course.
My favorite essays were "The Weight of Glory", "Is Theology Poetry?", "The Inner Ring", and "Membership".The Weight of GloryIt is a serious thing to live in a society of possible gods and goddesses, to remember that the dullest and most uninteresting person you can talk to may one day be a creature which, if you say it now, you would be strongly tempted to worship...
It causes perhaps half of all the happiness in the world, and no Inner Ring can ever have it.MembershipHow true membership in a body differs from inclusion in a collective may be seen in the structure of a family.
Any devotee of Lewis must immediately secure a copy of this collection and read it before the end of the week or death, whichever comes first.
Ten bucks at the closest bookstore will secure you much delight.
It is Lewis at his finest, writing (originally, speaking) as a believer, to believers, to build them up in faith, hope, and love.
He is at pains to make clear what to many is obscure or lofty, and to express its relevance and practical importance.
Their homiletical character is quite clear.
This collection has endeared Lewis to me more than any other book of his.
If I could break down the chapters and rate them individually as they have nothing to do with each other or one idea:Introduction by Walter Hooper: Horrible and waste of time, like most introductions to C.S. Lewis' books.Preface: Indifferent, slightly important to breakdown of this collectionThe Weight of Glory: 5 starsLearning in War-Time: 2 starsWhy I Am Not a Pacifist: 3 starsTransposition: 5 starsIs Theology Poetry?: 4 starsThe Inner Ring: 5 starsMembership: 5 starsOn Forgiveness: 4 starsA Slip of the Tongue: 3 stars
The little essays/speaches are quite something! Every single piece/chapter is a treasure of wisdom worthy of the ancient times, yet answering (not to these ancient times, but) to the frivolous accusations of the atheist and the ill-informed Christian.A great read! You should read it.
What an amazing read.
He hits on real life; our relationships -why they matter; why we care.
His Watson quote petty much sums up the scientific community's hostility towards God. Here is a quote: "By universal evolutionism I mean the belief that the very formula of universal process is from imperfect to perfect, from small beginnings to great endings, from the rudimentary to the elaborate, the belief which makes people find it natural to think that morality springs from savage taboos, adult sentiment from infantile sexual maladjustments, thought from instinct, mind from matter, organic from inorganic, cosmos from chaos.

These essays contain typically "Lewis" arguments -- eloquent, logical, piercing the very heart of the issue, and leaving one with many things to contemplate and wrestle with personally. Highly recommend.
Outstanding. I particularly enjoyed "The Weight of Glory", "Why I am not a Pacifist", and "Is Theology Poetry?" A must read for any Lewis fan.
