https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/468070.Nigella_Express
She likes the same kind of food as me2.
She's self-deprecating, my all-time favorite quality in other human beingsOne thing I don't like about her is whenever I have visions of going mostly-vegetarian and eating a very modern, lean diet, I read one of her cookbooks and am faced with the reality that I cannot deny my German/Italian roots.
I will be roasting chickens until the day I die.I'm surprised by the number of reviewers who said they couldn't find anything tempting in this book.
Maybe they're not really into good old-fashioned cooking, the kind that involves roasting pans, pie tins, etc.
I'm having a cookbook clear-out, and have decided to leave reviews for some of the cookbooks before I donate them to charity.For years I've loved watching Nigella's cookery shows on TV, but this is one of those cookbooks that has gone almost completely unused. In fact, I'd be surprised if I've done more than a couple of recipes from it over the years. I think they are perhaps a little fancy for my tastes. Having said that, it is still a very good cookbook with good illustrations and easy to follow recipes.
I may never make anything from this cookbook, but it made great reading! Nigella is a funny, smart writer with a killer vocabulary (plaudits? recherche?) as well as her own vocab (e.g. "spatch" as a verb meaning "spoon with a spatula"), so much less annoying than you-know-who and her EVOO. Reading straight through, I find the major themes are: Nigella hates diet food and the concept of restraint in food; Nigella shops online a lot (mentioned in fully half of recipe entries); and Nigella is embarrassed that "sunblush" tomatoes are called that.
This is without a doubt THE BEST COOK BOOK I OWN!!! (no i didnt forget that the cap lock was on) The recipes are reallllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllly EASY!!!The recipes are fast!!!The recipes are TASTY!!!Another thing I LOVE about Nidge is her alternative suggestions to ingredients (lets face it we dont all have a fully stocked larder like she does) and the fact that usually ridiculous and odd ingredients are left out dont expect to have to go to a fancy place for the ingredients!Really dumbs down cookery in a GREAT WAY!!!Forget the snobbery in the kitchen open the book and start cooking!!!
Almost everything I've made from this we've gone back to again and again. The only recipe I wouldn't rate so far is the macaroni, as the one from the Xmas book is infinitely nicer.the quick pork in cider and mustard with gnocchi is sublime. Overall, the effort to results ratio is ideal. Fast, but tasty food...a must have.
If you have never had the pleasure of watching Ms Lawson on her Cooking Channel shows, I am sadden for you.
She is a sweet, sassy and salt of the earth cook to watch in action.
I didn't think her cookbooks would hold a candle to her on-screen pizazz but was I ever wrong.
Her writing style is that of sitting right next to you with no-holds-bar conversation about food, life, family, friends, what have you.
Many a tasty feasts has our family enjoyed from Ms Lawson and many a more to come!
For some reason, it's not supposed to be cool to like Nigella. I don't care - she has excellent recipes that really work, she's smart and writes amusingly, and she even looks sexy! I suppose the last part is the problem, some version of Legally Blonde syndrome. You'd think people would have got over that by now.Another person who reviewed this book praised the Coq au Rielsing. It is indeed totally excellent - especially if you do what she recommends, and make it the day before you're planning to eat it.
This is the first cookbook I'm reviewing and I plan on reviewing plenty more since I have a ton. Besides reading and writing, I enjoy cooking and baking, so my bookshelves are a jumble of fiction and cookbooks. I love this book of hers for its simplicity and for the caramel croissant bread pudding, which we just relabeled bourbon bread pudding. It's so damn good, I get requests whenever I go to a party/potluck. Plenty of other recipes in this book were a hit for me, so I'd recommend it to others.
Nigella is super! She not only makes cooking easy n enjoyable her recipes are very delicious too! Try them and you won't be disappointed. Plus her book is a fun read....not a boring instruction cook book. It's a handy book as ever to have when your in a hurry or have to entertain or just want comfort food and the best part of all it's not too much effort!
some awesome recipes i've already made: baked eggs, chicken cacciatore, banana chocolate smoothie (me and zoe drink those every day for breakfast!)
I often pick one recipe, and then make a side of my choice even if it's steamed veggies and dinner is on the table in no time.I have been using this book since last November and some of the my favorites are;Mustard Pork Chops page 11- any meat can be used but pair it with white cannolini beans, simplicity ( 5 ingredients!
I find it goes great with eggs for breakfast!Irish Cream Tiramisu - wow, interesting and make sure to reserve a nap after, packs a punch!There are stir-fries, galettes, cakes, burgers, all sorts of meats and pastas, each page has a tiny recipe with a gorgeous picture, and this book is actually very useful and makes cooking fun especially to see how the short cuts turn out.
even if this was a book entirely made up of ways to cook meat and coleslaw, i would have read it because of Nigella's writing style and the beautiful photos.2.
i love that Nigella is so down to earth about food.
i can be a picky eater and i mostly cook for me and the (small) kids, so there were several recipes that i could just look at and tell that they would not go over well.the recipes that WOULD go over well were mostly desserts!
i was inspired to make a few infused oils for here at home, and when i do start adding meat back into our diet, i found several things that looked pretty good.
I don't often review cookbooks.
In fact, I almost never review them, but I felt this one deserved a mention.
She has a way of going through a recipe in a few, simple, sensual steps that is very attractive.
Her recipes are usually full of flavour and are quick to prepare.Quick is what I like (in addition to the sensual part of cooking), so I picked up Nigella Express.
Most of the recipes take less than a half hour to prepare.
The Layered Salad with Roast Quail and the Buttermilk Roast Chicken are again very simple but full of flavour.
Lots of good ones in here including some fancy show stopping ones that are both simple and take no time at all.
Amn't a big fan of cream, butter and very rich food so she probably isn't the right kind of cook for me!
I regularly have my family around for a meal and if I do go home I always cook for them.
I have made a-lot of the recipes from this book for them and they have gone down very well.
The book offers a wide range of recipes including drinks, breakfast items, sweets (candy), desserts, meals, light meals and snacks.
If you, like me, find yourself longing for excellent food when the temperatures drop, DO NOT read this book in the fall.
I have done nothing but eat for the 10 days I've been reading this - and I think I may also be overdoing things when it comes to dinnertime.
My family, needless to say, has enjoyed this time immensely.Nigella doesn't disappoint, in her writing style or recipe selection.
There's only a couple things in this book that I would never cook (one word: liver) and a preponderance of ideas that I cannot wait to try out.The next of which will be a hot toddy.
I wasn't expecting much but the recipes are really tasty while also accessible and quick, plus the book is full of excellent photos.
(Did I mention I loathe cookbooks without photos?
But I digress...) I enjoyed the anecdotes and other humor in the recipe notes.
The only thing I found odd is that Nigella herself looks so uncomfortable in all of the photos she was in, as though she had frozen herself in an itchy position.
Maybe it's just me?I'm going to try out a few things more and if it holds up, this may become a new cookbook staple.
It is not as good as the 'principles' book and for that reason alone - because Nigella has a better book, do I give it four stars instead of five.But this is a good book for an 'in a hurry' moment which is the purpose. For inspiration without having to think too much. Easy to follow, and all recipes work well.Lots of recipes which can become part of your staple and that you can cook from memory after a while, or with only minimal reference back to the book.Recommend it for every kitchen!
A great cookbook to read. Nigella's writing style is casual and breezy. Each recipe has a brief write up explaining the dish and features a beautiful colour picture. However, the recipes were not to my personal tastes, which is not Nigella's fault. There was more emphasis on sweets than side dishes. I did get some fantastic ideas for flavour combinations and easy short cuts, but this book won't find its way into my kitchen any time soon.
This is full of excellent tasty recipes that dont cost the earth and take under half an hour in general to make. A great way to try new things without having to put too much time and effort in! I can particularly recommend the Naan Pizzas and the prawn and mango curry! mmmm tasty!It also was written by and contains Nigella so thats a plus point for me in anything!
I really love this cookbook. Generally the recipes are simple and quick to make (as the title suggests) and are always delicious.Particular recipes of note that have made it in to our monthly rotation are her quick chilli (with chorizo), Thai red prawn curry and mustard pork chops.I believe I own all of Nigellas cook books and this for me is by far the best.
NIgella Express.....also one of the good books. Very interesting and creative recipes and all are truly speedy and practical. Alot of them are very do-able and infact prompt you to try them due to their ease and interesting factor. Another book that I often go back to refer. That pretty much says alot about the book.
I found this at a thrift store for a criminal $4. The recipes that I have made so far have been amazingly fast and surprisingly delicious. Gorgeous photos, ingredients by weight (LOVE LOVE LOVE). This book has expanded our weeknight repertoire. Too bad there are not more veggie recipes.
Excellent cookbook. Lots of beautiful pictures, easy to follow guide to make the recipes, typical Nigella style. Read and used it a lot already and will continue to use it in the future. You never really 'finish' a good cookbook but keep using it in the near or far future.
This is my go-to cookbook. I use these recipes again and again. Everything I've tried, I've loved. Many I have begun to tweak to suit myself; they're part of my repertoire. I am forever changed as a cook, I think for the better!
This is the food I associate with Nigella, and it is the reason I love her and will always turn to her for advice, inspiration and solutions to every kitchen debacle.
I kid you not when I say every occasion is covered - there is a recipe for pomegranate duck that would impress the most sophisticated of dinner party guests that can be whipped up in no time at all.There are many cookbooks promising meals in 30 minutes, some as little as 15, but part of me doesn't trust these chefs whose skills are far beyond mine.
Things that we've tried (or will be) include "Maple Chicken and Ribs", "Totally Chocolate Chocolate Chip Cookies", "Sesame Peanut Noodles" and "Banana Butterscotch Muffins".I find her directions to be a little from the hip, and it helps to know your way around the kitchen a bit - in other words, this book may not be a great gift for a beginning cook.
For example, the recipe for "Maple Chicken and Ribs" calls for ribs, but doesn't say whether or not to separate them before roasting.
I liked Forever Summer better.
They are fast and they are easy but they missed some of the wow-factor I loved in Forever Summer.
I could nosh on them all day.Me - Potato Pancakes with Smoked Salmon: Calls for more salmon than you need.
First time I've purchased a box of potato flakes.
It felt weird.Gretchen - Chickpeas with Arugula: Chickpeas = yes.
Molly - Scallops with Chorizo: Scallops are all in the sear and the carmelization.
Chorizo was a perfect compliment.
I will make this one soon.Sheela - Key Lime Mousse Cheesecake: As I've said before.
You cannot fail me with Key lime.
I've not made any of the recipes (which is not at all needed for me to enjoy and approve of a cookbook).
I did ID more than a dozen recipes I'd like Andre to try -- happily, he says he's willing.
She almost makes cooking sound like fun.
...Almost.p11 Mustard Pork Chops (she suggests a side of gnocchi)p19 Naan Pizzap23 Caramel Croissant Pudding (because you need something to do with those stale croissants)p39 Potato & Mushroom Gratinp40 Steak Slice with Lemon & Thymep94 Breakfast Barsp97 Pear & Ginger Muffinsp149 Mirin-Glazed Salmonp176 Cheddar Cheese Risottop261 Sesame Peanut Noodlesp262 Banana Butterscotch Muffinsp265 Crunchy Salad with Hot & Sour Dressingp284 Tuna & Beansp296 Pollo Alla Cacciatorap363 Minestrone in Minutes
I am looking forward to trying a lot of these recipes, especially the desserts.
For some reason, I always make dessert out to be the biggest challenge of the meal, but there are quite a few simple recipes in here.This is the first cookbook that I've actually sat down and read cover to cover.
This could be partially due to little quote gems like, "Oh, and if you don't have any bourbon in the house, first may I say, please consider it, and second, replace it, rather, with rum," and "Incidentally, this is one of my children's favorite desserts, though I leave out the rum and coconut for them.
I want to like this book because I love Nigella so much, but I've looked through it again and again and have found hardly anything that actually looks worth it to me.
It probably would make for easier thumbing if the chapters were "Some Sort of Smoked Fish," "Chops of Various Meats," and "Everything Else." As with all Nigella books, it's a good read on its own.
Her prose is unmistakable and always entertaining, so I'm glad I own it, but I'll stick with Feast and How to Be a Domestic Goddess for my favorite Nigella recipes.
