https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/294045.Deep_Fathom
I've never read a Rollin's book that I didn't like, or felt "meh" about so, mild criticism about the pace is as negative as it gets.
Having read most of the Non-Sigma Force books (and all of the Sigma Force Books) it's probably a fair "knock" on Rollins to say that his books are generally "formulaic" and follow a sewing pattern like one of those balsa wood airplanes you have to press out each piece, carefully then fit them together, wind up the rubber band and it goes.
Islands have sunk on one side of the world and lost cities have risen on the other, exciting two anthropologists Dr. Karen Grace and Professor Miyuki Nakano.
Due to the earthquakes, Jack loses a ship of gold and is then asked to assist the military with the crash of Air Force One. During the extraction of the plane, Jack finds a lava like pillar with strange symbols on it, and it glowed!As the mystery gathers more clues, there is evil in just about every chapter.
My feelings about Deep Fathom are pretty in line with Rollins' first two books - fun adventure about finding hidden ancient civilizations, nothing much to write home about with regards to the writing style. It gets points for being a Bermuda Triangle mystery that doesn't actually involve the Bermuda Triangle, but it loses points for having an overly villainous villain. He's racist, misogynist, likes killing, and just in case he hasn't been coded "bad guy" enough, he has a vendetta against the main character! Oh well, it was still a fun read.
While some cynicism is justified, the political decisions aren't realistic or intelligent and it discredits the whole plot as a result.
It seems a bit more research into the consequence of such severe volcanic and seismic activity in the pacific was necessary, particularly in regards to tsunamis.
Such an event would have put a purposeless war in the background, or off the agenda completely particularly when facing the cost of severe damage to multiple major cities on the U.S. west coast.
Combined with artificial intelligence that solves all the itty bitty details and moves the plot and the random character disasters at the beginning, it's a character and science fiction mess.
However, the book's true weakness lies in its characters, which are rather flat and lacking in personality.Jack, the story's main character, is a rather cliched tough guy with lingering emotional problems from the tragic loss of his fiance.
David, the story's antagonist, is a racist no-good military guy with no redeeming qualities, and Rollins' only attempt at giving him any relatability is wedged within a single paragraph in the last 50 pages of the book.On top of these qualities, the book possesses a number of events that rival modern action flicks for lack of believability.
Sasvim slučajno je žena donijela prvog Rollinsa iz knjižnice i prilično me je ugodno iznenadio.Piše vrlo dinamičnu avanturistiku no uvijek s primjesom nečega čudnog tako da smo oboje vrlo brzo pročitali sve prevedeno u HR.Vrlo zabavno, baš za plažu (doduše ovo je pročitano u pola zime no barem je morska tema).Jaka trojka.
جزو اولین کتابهای رولینز بوده و به وضوح نسبت به کارهای قبلی بهتر شده.داستان اینطوریه که بعد از یک کسوف در اقیانوس آرام، همه کشورهای حاشیه این اقیانوس با زلزله ها مهیب و سونامیهای عجیب روبرو میشند و قسمتی از سواحل قاره آمریکا زیر آب میره؛ در حالی که قسمتی از سواحل ژاپن از آب بیرون میاد. توی این زلزلهها هواپیمای حامل رییس جمهور امریکا توی اقیانوس آرام سقوط میکنه و جک کیرکلند، افسر سابق تفنگداران آمریکا که مشغول غواصی با زیردریایی شخصیش بوده ماموریت پیدا میکنه برای بیرون کشیدن لاشه هواپیمای رییس جم
جزو اولین کتابهای رولینز بوده و به وضوح نسبت به کارهای قبلی بهتر شده.داستان اینطوریه که بعد از یک کسوف در اقیانوس آرام، همه کشورهای حاشیه این اقیانوس با زلزله ها مهیب و سونامیهای عجیب روبرو میشند و قسمتی از سواحل قاره آمریکا زیر آب میره؛ در حالی که قسمتی از سواحل ژاپن از آب بیرون میاد.
توی این زلزله‌ها هواپیمای حامل رییس جمهور امریکا توی اقیانوس آرام سقوط میکنه و جک کیرکلند، افسر سابق تفنگداران آمریکا که مشغول غواصی با زیردریایی شخصیش بوده ماموریت پیدا میکنه برای بیرون کشیدن لاشه هواپیمای رییس جمهور اعزام بشه.
Interesting. That is the best word I can think of to describe this book. There were times I was extremely bored and times I had adrenaline pumping. There were times my eyes rolled in annoyance and times I smiled along with characters. This was my first Rollins book and will definitely try another. Overall, an entertaining read.
I love action, thriller, mystery, and sci-fi stories and this book has all of that and more! I was hooked from the time I started reading until the end. I love the creativity and imagination. James Rollins just became one of my favorite authors. In fact, I've decided to read all his books, starting from Sandstorm!
Il libro è fantastico: la storia intriga un sacco, un mix di avventura, azione e fantascienza. I personaggi mi sono davvero piaciuti, eccezion fatta per gli "antagonisti", quei brutti bastardi di Spangler e Nafe, davvero davvero odiosi.
Un mélange d'Armageddon, d'Indiana Jones, de Transformer, de James Bond, d'Abyss.Pas assez profond au niveau de la psychologie des personnages et surtout extrêmement manichéen.
Réussissant l'exploit de réunir au mètre carré le parfait panachage de savants de tous horizons pour sauver le monde en 3/4 jours ^^J'ai quand même mis du temps à le finir du fait de ce 1er degrés et du peu de profondeur des personnages qui empêche qu'on s'y attache.
Mais je retenterais le coup avec d'autres histoires de cet auteur, parce que certains résumés m'attirent et que pour une lecture détente ça passe.
getting warmerp136: over the past days, he had recorded the spire from every possible angle, again saving it all to a secret dvd disk for review by his team.p161: in the real world, few plans proceeded as planned.p263: a heckler & koch mp5a3 assault weapon.p265: jack saw the man reach for his rifle.
Meh. Back in the days when I really loved Clive Cussler books, James Rollins' stand alones like this one were totally my jam.
The heroes were just generically good, and the villains were completely one dimensional.
Like, ten years ago.
I did care about one of the characters.
I cared about the dog.
Anyway, add in a deus ex machina AI and one of those most ridiculous endings ever (view spoiler)[(Seriously??
They basically hit a giant reset button and brought all the good guys back to life while all the bad guys stayed dead.
James Rollins is one of those writers who is absolutely awesome for the first 3-to-4 books you read from him.
Then, you realize that he is just like all those other writers that churn out novels as a ridiculous pace.
Even realizing that, you can still appreciate – even love – some of the books, but it’s a lot easier to recognize a stinker when you see one from them, too.
It tried, it just fell a bit flat.Definitely one of the books from James Rollins that I can’t recommend, though I’d still recommend you check out at least the earliest of his Sigma Force novels.
Серия земетресения разтърсват планетата, а скоро и ужасен инцидент изправя на ръба на войната САЩ и Китай.
Главният герой – Джак Къркланд – е бивш астронавт, който оцелява при кошмарна трагедия и започва да се занимава с издирване на съкровища по дъното на океана с подводница.
Именно с нея той ще се окаже нужен на американското правителство, но това, което открива, го запраща сред глобална конспирация, в която са намесени древни цивилизации, пророчества, непознати енергии и най-вече – опитни убийци, които няма да се спрат пред нищо в името на целите си.Издателска къща БАРДhttp://knigolandia.info/book-review/t...
I have almost finished but this is my first James Rollins book and I find he has a nice flow and his style is similar to my favorite Author, Michael Crichton. So I'm so happy to find this author via a GoodReads recommendation. I'll definitely give another one of his books a shot! Can anyone recommend another James Rollins book to me?
Jack befindet sich mit seinem Tauchboot, der Nautilus, gerade auf einem Tauchgang um ein gesunkenes Schiff zu finden das mehrere Tonnen Gold an Bord gehabt haben soll als es unterging.
Dazu kommt noch, das Jack und seine Crew mir sofort sympathisch waren und ich die Geschehnisse um diese Gruppe mit allergrößter Freude beobachtet habe.
Nachdem die beiden ins Innere der Pyramide geflohen sind, entdecken sie unterirdisch einen Raum an dessen Decke ein Sternensystem zu entdecken ist und an dessen Wänden die gleichen Hieroglyphen zu finden sind wie an Jacks Säule - zusammen mit einem weiteren Kristall der sein Gewicht zu verändern scheint.
Un peu grand-guignolesque ... très James Bond en fait.
Every now and then I get tired of waiting for a Sigma Force novel from Mr. Rollins and I check out his author page on Amazon.
But when I went to write my review, I checked the copyright page and noticed this was originally released in 2001.
During his monologue, he mentioned that reviewers had claimed his writing had reached a new level of greatness (or something like that).
Having read what I believe to be his third book, I can now report: his writing was always that good.
Rollins is always excellent!If you’ve not read it, go get it.
Dr. Karen Grace is supposed to be a really smart Ph.D., but her words coming out of the narrator's mouth made her come across like a young woman barely out of her teens, probably not even through her undergrad studies, let alone an accomplished Ph.D.!
The narrator did a good job of projecting the fact that Jack had some miles on him, but he made Karen sound like a woman-child!
Furthermore, every time Jack was supposed to have derisively uttered David Spangler's name, so help me, the narrator's way of doing this sounded for all the world like Jerry Seinfeld spitting out the name, "Newman!" It's a small thing, but good grief, it was distracting!
He finds very strange things under the sea including hieroglyphics.
The animosity between these two really provides some great conflict and fabulous storyline intertwined with the disaster, the coverup and the recovery efforts.While exploring the Dragons, an island that surfaced due to the earthquakes, Karen and Miyuki are attacked and forced inside the pyramids.
Strange hieroglyphics are discovered and after taking pictures they are forced to flee for their lives.
Exhaustive internet searches connect them with Jack's ship and then the fun really begins.James Rollins books always remind me of Dirk Pitt from Clive Cussler.
There are certain themes that have now been literally done to death, but despite that, strong authorskeep on returning them, perhaps with the ambition that they would be able to re-invigorate the theme, and take all the cliches away.
I know that such techno-thrillers are to be enjoyed with considerable "suspension of disbelief", but even then, this novel was somewhat stretched.
I have read three other books by Rollins so far and to tell the truth I was starting to get a little worried.
The plots seemed to be getting a bit thin (or unrealistic) and the characters a little cliched.
It kept me turning pages and I cared about the characters.
The ending was a bit over the top perhaps and some may consider it to be a cop out by the author (I can't really explain without a spoiler) but my feeling is if you're reading this kind of action novel then you'll be in the right frame of mind for the ending anyway.
Hero with a tough shell + Pretty/smart/independent female academic + Way over-the-top baddie +An incipient (and insipid) romance + The predictable AI sidekick = a novel that isn't one of Rollin's best efforts.
Many of the scenes dragged on and the amount of times characters survived some absolutely (ABSOLUTELY) death-guaranteed scenario was ludicrous.
Not to mention, breaking a rib and then getting involved in a strenuous life-or-death battle without a peep about that rib...
Even at 95% of the way through the novel I had to push myself to keep reading until the bitter end.
Overall, a 2.5 star read.
My second ever audio book, and I've certainly chose well so far.
An eclipse leads to natural disasters around the world, and brings into conflict a deep sea explorer looking for answers and his old advesary who works for the CIA and is under orders to hide the truth to aid his mentor's political ends.
To be honest, I don't think story would have had quite the same effect on paper, it definitely suited an audio book.
If I admit that I almost looked forward to driving to work so I could get my next fix, you know how much I enjoyed it!
In another screenplay (type) action adventure from John Rollins, our hero could have been named John McClane.
But, Ex-Navy SEAL Jack Kirkland led the way in an underwater Die Hard.
With the feel of sitting in your movie theatre seat, and mumbling to yourself, "WTH, how did he get out of that alive?" With some ancient civilization legends and myths, and the good lookin female professor, digging for answers.
You know her and Jack's paths are going to cross.His battle with an 'ol nemisis David Spangler, toward the end, I was ready to hear Jack say, "Yippee Ki Yay Mo..." This was good fun.
Quite okay for an early Rollins.Which makes it still quite horrible by most thriller-standards.one-dimensional cardboard-characters and a threadbare see-through-plot were you can mark the good, the bad and the ugly before you reach page 100. Sadly, the book then hast still more than 300 pages to go.Still, not as horrible as Sub Terra by far (wich deserves about minus 2 points).But not nearly as good (spell: 'quite decent' by those standards mentioned above) as the recent Rollins-books.
I feel that if I had read this book before all the others I would have liked it more because this was definitely not Rollins' best work. The story line was a bit choppy and unbelievable and some of the characters could have be developed a bit more. But don't get me wrong the story is still very entertaining and fast paced. I would still recommend this book to anyone who enjoys reading "Indiana Jones" type books.
Coming to the end of this enjoyable read I am almost sad to see it finish it was one of those well traveled story's that keep me interested all the way through shame I couldn't sit down and plunge into it like i usually do i will give it 5 stars a top read with James Rollins usual bag of surprises for us
This book was really stupid. In fact, it was stupid in so many ways that it should win some kind of award. On the bright side, it did keep my interest as I was sitting in a large, uncomfortable room for hours waiting to see whether or not I had jury duty.
