https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6043826-the-toys-of-peace
This is a comic story of nature and nurture, war and peace, and the creative imagination of children.
She asks her brother, Harvey, that when he next visits, he brings “peace toys”, rather than soldiers and similar.
Harvey agrees to do his best, with the caveat:“'There is primitive instinct to be taken into consideration, you know’, said Harvey doubtfully, ‘and hereditary tendencies as well’.”A while later, the boys excitedly unwrap crinkly paper and find what they think is a fort, but it’s a municipal dust-bin!
“Are we to play with these civilian figures?” asked Eric.“Of course,” said Harvey, “these are toys; they are meant to be played with.”“But how?”History homework becomes oddly appealing.
This was my first work of Saki and I must say I do look forward to reading more. I found the stories, while dated to the period, still quite humorous and enjoyable. Regardless of their age, there was much that was just as applicable to our current period.I was very much drawn into getting a feel for the norms of the societies Saki moved through. I am at a loss for words here but I do recommend this book. Fun, entertaining, and delightful.
It's an unusual story which is based on historical facts. We analysed it at the University. You should always read the story more than once to understand the message. I don't like his macabre and cynical satire. But all of his stories are really useful to mind. Try to read it!
Interesting plot when people start to make only Peace toys! How the kids will react and what the effect will be? Can we remove fighting from kids toys?
Delighted in the witty mockery of Edwardian society ...... this work of Saki , as is the hallmark of truly great storytellers , was spookily prescient of the future to come .....and the children being the natural instruments of revelation .
Quite entertaining. Only one story really entranced me, The wolves of Cernogratz, which was superb with a quite wonderful ending.
These short stories are irreplaceable and if one loves animals very gratifying. I have been reading them (on and off) since childhood and never get tired of them.
A collection of short stories by Saki. I didn't understand a couple of them - the ones that seemed to be mostly about the Balkan Wars? But obviously I enjoyed the mockery of Edwardian high society.
Children of today are just too hard to be influenced by anything good! I loved the little kids of war and the way they changed their Uncle's domesticated toys to serve the war.
Cute little short story about boys and their toys of war...
Kids are what they are, try as you may.
A collection of short stories that make some quite pointed comments about the social conditions of the time(early 1910s).
An old book, recommended to me, it is a charming set of short stories with a wry sense of humour. The author was apparently well loved, and I can see why.
Imposible no pensar en señoras del Pro cuando lo leia.
