https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22544024-secrets-of-a-charmed-life
I've rarely been so swallowed up in a story since I was ten and read the Little House series.
And then we came to the last section of the book presented as journal entries and although there was no way I was going to quit reading at that point, the story lost its momentum.
And that action included the moment I'd scrambled through war-torn England to reach.
It was a good ending, I was satisfied with how the story turned out, but I felt robbed of the chance to be present for the climatic moment.I wouldn't have minded so much if the book hadn't been so incredibly good.
It was 4 stars until some things got on my nerves.
Loved it! I really appreciate the fact that Meissner didn't feel the need to create a complicated "present" story... the past took center stage. Wonderfully and descripitively written to where I felt compelled to Youtube videos from the "Blitz". Must have been a truely terrifying time to be a Londoner. I look very forward to reading more by Meissner. 4.5 stars.
Only just started this book but it is already irritating me! With alls it's talk of 'sidewalks' and putting their foot on the 'gas' when referring to the accelerator in a car. I keep expecting to find out that the main protagonists are recent American immigrants . If you are going to write a book about the Blitz in London from an English perspective and expect English readers to take it seriously little things like this are important. I keep waiting for the next gaff ( mistake ).
I love being shocked, being forced to think, and becoming completely engrossed in someone else's story.
Notably blaming oneself for things out of one's control.And this was a good lesson for me right now.The lowdown: It's London, WWII; the actual focus is what happens during the Blitz.
Though the story delves into the before and after, it's about how the Blitz completely changed the course of people's lives: two sisters, their mother, an "aunt", and more.
In the end I was blown away by how many people were involved and didn't even realize it.Imagine living that way for real.
"Fear is worse than pain, I think.
Fear does not start to fade until you take the step that you think you can't."This is a relatively simple story of ordinary people during an extraordinary time, but is complex in its development.
It is the story of how one decision can change your entire life.
I think I often fall into the trap of wanting to read twist after turn and suspense and action.
What good is remembering an event of you don't remember how it made you feel?
How it made them feel.
This story reads like a modern American teenager throwing hussy fits when nothing goes her way, only in a Blitz setting.
So, SPOILERS ahead!Emmy and Julia are two sisters who live in London.
As luck would have it, Julia wakes up in the middle of the night, and Emmy faces a dilemma.
But Emmy doesn't give a shit about anyone else, so she takes Julia along with her to London, towards the war!
Then some American woman shows up and Emmy tells her the REAL story that she never told anyone else.
Very happy that Emmy doesn't get to design wedding dresses.
I received this book through a goodreads giveaway in exchange for an honest review.I loved this story!
I thought it was beautiful in a simple way but still left an impact on me.
I just cannot imagine going through something like the London Blitz in WWII.
This book made me feel like I was there going through it with Emmy.
I could feel her loss and hopelessness.
I could feel her desire to prove herself and to shed herself after losing so much.
Emmy's story was wonderfully told, one that I'm happy to have had an opportunity to read.
Whyyyyyy did I wait so long to read this book?!
It is an excellent, beautifully written novel of two sisters who are tragically affected by the World War II bombings of London.
Emmy is a strong female character who has lofty dreams, and we see her mature into a woman on a quest to make up for regrets.
Julia is the younger sister who lives with different regrets and is deeply affected by what occurs in London.
I had a lump in my throat for the entire last part (of 3).
I will think about this book for a long time to come.
I truly wished to read a good story about War Time London but this poorly crafted story simply did not deliver.Perhaps it would have worked if it was listed as Juvenile Fiction?
As an adult consumer I was annoyed by this poorly constructed story.
The blitz has happened; Winter is coming, Emily needs a warm coat; oh my there is a suit case with a coat and pajamas; gloves; everything she needs.
Emily needs a light to see with; oh my she just happens to have a key to the one and only building left standing in London with electricity and running water.
Loved this story from the beginning to the end!! Susan Meissner sure can tell a great story and make it seemSo real!!
Meissner is a Christian author after all.
Then I realized that the book really didn't contain any Christian elements and the perspective on life presented was rather hopeless and dreary.
I ended up skimming quickly over the last few chapters and was again disappointed to see that the book offered little hope.
I can't understand why the author would spend so much time writing a well-crafted story and squander the opportunity to point readers to God and His light.
I'm not looking for a sermon or for clumsy Christian messages, just some light and some hope.
Roman počinje kada Kendra, studentica historije, dolazi u raskošnu englesku kuću kod starice koja je jedan od rijetkih živućih svjedoka londonskog Blitza. Ona joj priča priču o svom životu koji se mijenja početkom rata kad donosi odluku koja će je zauvijek promijeniti..Odličan roman, vješto napisan, ni u jednom trenutku mi nije bio dosadan i jako brzo se čita. Likove naprosto morate zavoljeti i čitajući skupa s njim proživjeti sve ono što i sami proživljavaju. Preporučujem! :)
And while I wish I had made different choices, as I know you do, which one of us can say that if we had, nothing bad would have ever happened to the people we love?" A story of mothers and daughters and sisters, uniting and colliding within the volatile realities of war - real and imagined wars.
Like a pebble dropped in a pond, these choices can have far reaching rippling effects as evidenced in Secrets of a Charmed Life through the realistically imagined characters of Emmy and Julia Downtree.
In this sense, I feel Meissner is spot on when it comes to the ups and downs of mother/daughter relationships.
And because of that, in the end, it comforts.I particularly liked this reflection on time and grief ...but if I know anything about time, it is that it stretches to walk with you when you grieve.
The rest of the world may zoom past at breakneck speed but when you are learning to live with loss, time slows down to the pace of your breathing.And, the quote from which the title springs, that is all about responsibility and guilt: I want her to see that I understand there are no secrets to a charmed life.
What an awesome journey Meissner takes us on!!! I love to learn history while submerged in a story full of events and characters that touch my emotions! Highly recommend!!
dove into it without reading any reviews.Thanks again to my friend Shaun for gifting me this for Christmas :).It starts off slow, building up the lives of Emmy,Julia, and their mom before the war came to England.
I truly don't know how I would have reacted if I had had to live through all they did.Charlotte was a wonderful character as well, someone I would have loved to know and Thistle House sounds so beautiful (The kind of house I would want to have).Couldn't help but love Julia, such a sweet kid:).Isabelle's husband was a good man, I admired him.
Slow to start but interesting to read as the story unravels. Secrets of a Charmed Life is a beautiful historical fiction full of joy, heartache, surprises, tension, and sadness. The author captures WWII in England and the evacuated children well. Highly recommended if you like to read WWII historical fiction books about sisterly love and how fate can change lives. This will definitely not be my last Meissner book!
RTC
Could not get past the first few pages. Tedious, excessive references to irrelevant details (i.e. scenery). Predictable and cliche descriptions (i.e. English cottage). And really? They scheduled her interview with the lady on the same day as her 93rd birthday party? How realistic is that? Well, just as realistic as everything else I read the first few pages....not at all. I'm all for running away, fantasy, a perfectly dreamy world to escape to, etc. But this is just too much.
DNF @ 42%Dynamically annoying sisters. Flat plot.Lack of historical atmosphere.
Još jedna priča o ljudskim sudbinama i kako je malo dovoljno da sve krene (krivim) putem.. Ovaj put pratimo priču dvaju sestara tijekom Drugog svjetskog rata u Londonu (i okolici- onim divnim, engelskim seocima..).
She is one of many authors that keep my interest with historical fiction alive and why I keep coming back to this genre over and over again.The story mostly follows a 15-year-old girl Emmy Downtree, her story told by Isabel McFarland when a young scholar comes to interview the elderly woman in hopes of learning some secrets about the war.
Emmy was just a young girl who thought she was doing the right thing, who just wanted to make her dream come true.
In hopes that Emmy would never feel like she had ruined her mother's life, she wanted to show her that she could do something good with hers.I found myself in tears by the end of the book.
I loved Susan's last book, Fall Of Marigolds, & this one is every bit as good.
She writes 2 story lines, one from the past, and one present day.
I always favor the historical story, and was so glad this focused on the WW2 tale of Emmy and Julia, 2 sisters who were separated during the bombings on London by Germany.
The only minor thing I wasn't fond of was the 3rd part told by Julia in letter form.
If you are a historical fiction fan, this should be on your list to read soon!
I look forward to her next book!
Apsolutno predivna! Priča o ratu ispunjena snovima, tugom, nadom i oprostom. Sve emocije su pomiješane u ovim koricama.
Let's just forget the first person (Kendra) because her only role is to set the stage for the second (Isabel) to tell her secret story that she apparently kept untold for years and years (though, as the story progresses, we find out there are actually many people who know the story but keep it on the DL because...
The plot of Isabel's story actually had a lot of promise and as I was reading it I couldn't help but think that this would make a nice screenplay, though perhaps I felt this way because the author at times goes into unnecessary detail about what a person was looking at or touching or hearing.
This book was an enjoyable read, but I must admit I am a little baffled: I've read nothing but rave reviews and high praise about this novel, so I was anticipating it to land among my favorite books, but it fell drastically short.
I welcomed a shorter read as a follow up to those heftier books, and this book tells the story it sets out to tell, a beautiful account of two sisters whose lives are forever changed by war and the secrets that follow them in the years following, but I guess I just wanted more.
Despite my own desire to glean more, I recommend this book for an easy, pleasant read.
Oh how I loved this book about a young London woman (girl) during the Blitz. The author does such a fantastic job describing the complete incongruity of the situation, set against Emmy's idealistic nature. And the theme of sisterhood- wow. I was completely enchanted from the first page. Highly, highly recommended.
Once I picked this book up I couldn't put it back down. The characters were easy to love and to feel their pain. Historical fiction at its best. Highly recommended.
Izvrsna, uzbudljiva i emotivna priča! Preporuka za sve ljubitelje tema iz II svjetskog rata!
