https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/771620.The_Green_Child
Chapter I was so enchanting, so visionary and suffused with natural glory, that I thought this was not just another book I was reading but was rather a sign, a message from unseen powers the meaning of which was left for me to figure out.
And so toward the end I started sensing how his pre-conceived agenda was informing the book, and I started pulling away from its enchantments.Though I did love his large pet beetles as companions for solitary sages.
Baffling, dreamlike, unsatisfying, crystalline, homely, intriguing and odd, reading The Green Child is a bit like having a long and rather annoying dream, in which nothing much is resolved but many interesting questions are raised in strange and new ways.The book is split into three distinct sections, each ending in a kind of death; and taken overall the novel represents a statement or exploration of where satisfaction in life is to be found – moving through childhood, early hardship, political and military triumphs, into an altogether stranger and more philosophical realm.
A very good Gothic novel, inspired by the documented case „Green Children of Woolpit”, with a Ruritarian Romance thrown in the middle (Part II: Olivero`s ascension to dicatatorship in a South America fictional country).
A very good Gothic novel, inspired by the documented case „Green Children of Woolpit”, with a Ruritarian Romance thrown in the middle (Part II: Olivero`s ascension to dicatatorship in a South America fictional country).
It is not akin to the frantic densities of Marquezian magic-surrealism - this novel predates such by many years- nor the sweeping assaults of some Joyce work, but rather it is the vivid depictions and clear purpose to a bizarre, fascinating story that forever keeps the visions from this book in my mind.
There is certainly imagery at work as Read immediately describes the return trip of the main character (Olivero) to his home village under moonlight, following a stream that he swears is flowing in the opposite direction he recalls as a boy.
He should have just stopped after the first part
There is no other British novel I've read quite like this - "Lanark" is similar in its segmented shifts between fantasy and realism, but goes on much longer and ends up confessing to its own artificiality.
"The Green Child" ends without explaining the mystery of who its narrator may be, and seems quite sincere in its philosophising.
Then the closing section takes us to a magical kingdom beneath the Earth.
At times this is like a Machen story, at others it comes close to the political surrealism of other 30s writers like Ruthven Todd and Rex Warner, with echoes of David Lindsay's "Voyage To Arcturus".
sensible, handsome prose about some spooky shit. the structure is like a little sandwich. but the mustard gets on your hands and you wipe them on your dreams.
i liked the general who had a bunch of pet hummingbirds all hanging out in his room
In the novel, the green children are two but one dies; The Green Child is three parts:The first part begins, “The assassination of President Olivero, which took place in autumn of 1861, was for the world at large one of those innumerable incidents of a violent nature which characterise the politics of the South American continent.
He follows this mystery to its source.The Green Child isn’t a popular novel, but the people who’ve read it often say this first part is the best, the most poetic.
If you can find The Green Child, you should read it.
“The assassination of President Olivero, which took place in the autumn of 1861, was for the world at large one of those innumerable incidents of a violent nature which characterise the politics of the South American continent.
But I’m afraid I know little about South American politics that I haven’t learned through fiction.
And not my kind of strange I’m afraid.The Green Child is a novel in three very different acts.
A mixture of science fiction (ch. 1), Candide (ch. 2), and the latter books of Plato's Republic (viz. V, VII, X) (ch.3) -- an interesting book, to be sure, though not quite at the level that the blurbs (T.S. Eliot, Rexroth, etc.) would have me think....
The second part of the novel is the longest and involves Olivero recounting how he left the town and through a series of coincidences ended up in the rebellious Latin American province of Roncador.
The lack of endless rebellions and political violence is more unrealistic than the fantasy the follows in the third part, after Olivero fakes his death and flees Roncador.
Here in this novel, he intended to do both at the same time as well as create a “modern fantasy” based off a rich folk tale of the Green Children of Woolpit.
I am now in that sorry position - I wanted very badly to like this book, and had been looking forward to reading it since I first heard of it last year on John Cartan's list of Strange and Wonderful books: http://www.cartania.com/strangebooks....
However, only the first part of the book really spoke to me at all; the middle section is an exceptionally dry account of Olivero's (fictional, of course) curious ascent to the position of president in the Utopian state of Roncador.
To me, while the prose was excellent, it merely sounded like he was writing in the Victorian style - which I love, but doesn't strike me as exceptional.
It is a lotus-eating land of philosophy, as the Green Children slowly ascend ledges till they "mature" and reach the end of their life.
But it's a very empty life, with the Green Children almost interchangable, and Sally only distinct because she spent time in the human world.
And to it's credit, the Green Children world under the earth is never preachy, or didatic.
It's a deep, meditative book that makes you think, and one of the most enjoyable Utopian novels I have read so far.
It's books like these that really make me hate the Goodreads rating system.
If I could only read 100 books in my life this wouldn't make the list, yet I'm glad to have read it.The book is divided into three sections which read like three short stories, linked together by one man, Olivero (the green chick's in there too but she doesn't say much).
It's such a shame that Herbert Read didn't continue writing fiction because it really feels like this was the prelude to a masterpiece.
There is a reference to Damien Hirst in Larraquy, and certainly the shock art has European inspiration (and perhaps a send up of envy of success on the part of the character) involved; Read’s protagonist imposes a European pastoral ideal government on his (unintentionally) private indigenous and Creole kingdom in the Andes in partial imitation of the slightly misguided, and now displaced, Jesuits; and Carrington imports Druids and assorted religious/demonic paraphernalia from European history and lore into her unnamed country, possibly Mexico, with an acknowledgment of Catholic impact on the Spanish empire.These books are full of common themes, but I’m going to skip an important one ( ‘what is art’) in favor of ‘identity,' to keep the length manageable.
Based on a 12th century Suffolk legend about the appearance of two green-skinned children this, Read's only novel, is utterly unique.
The three distinct sections of the story are so contrasting that the juxtaposition simply shouldn't work, but somehow it does.
Read, a poet, anarchist and proponent of education through art, pens prose that can be serenely beautiful.
Indeed, The Green Child is such a singular work, its meaning so slippery - seemingly eternal yet fleeting and trivial at the same time - that it has been quietly meditating in a corner of my mind for a while as its many layers slowly crystalise.
It's pretty cool. I don't know. You could find something better to read. Once I was in a waiting room, I had The Green Child with me, I knew about a bookstore around the block...I left the waiting room and bought a different book to read, instead of The Green Child.
Funny little story that starts out as an boys' adventure type of deal set in South America, then takes a sharp left into a literal fairy tale. The author sinks to the bottom of a river with a fairy woman captured in his hometown as a child, and they begin their lives together in her world.
Still: he was a decidedly busy man.
One of his friends was Carl Jung, a man who claimed to have been deeply affected by THE GREEN CHILD.
Though its strangeness and often surreal inventions in many ways distinguish it, what strikes me above all about THE GREEN CHILD is its formidable intellectual tenacity.
As such, it ends up being a busy-minded construction terminating in an explicitly spiritual committedness.
THE GREEN CHILD is at once a cavalcade of invention, a neat structural trick, a gripping read, a demonstration of brilliance, and a lesson that may well teach you how to better abide.
Al principio no le encontraba pies ni cabeza, al menos las primeras 25 páginas, pero de a poco vas entendiendo esta extraña novela que una historia inusual. De un estilo muy inglés en su narración, pasa a un idealismo (¿mágico?) interesante. La recomendaría a alguien que no se angustie por un inicio donde no entiendes qué pasa. Finalmente se narra aquella nueva sociedad idealizada que Read ve con muy buenos ojos.
A magical mystery of a book. Loved this book, it's a bit strange, but a fantasy and found it to be very seductive, enticing, and rewarding. Why didn't he write more?
2.5 to be exact. i absolutely adored parts 1 and 3. part 2 was... disappointing.
Two incredibly bizarre (but compelling) fantasy stories bookend an adventure tale of colonial rebellion. Really not like anything I've ever encountered before.
This book I feel has some direction and focus issues.
Not interesting, not profound, not even very strange. So much for the book recommendations of Eliot Weinberger in Ghosts of Birds.
This is a strange book. It tells the story of Olivera, a man who, sometime in the 1800's, embarks on an adventure that takes him across Europe and then to South America where he eventually becomes the dictator of Roncador, a small city near Buenos Ayres. He becomes disillusioned with his position, stages his own assassination and returns to England where he encounters "the green child"; a green skinned woman who he rescues from abuse at the hands of her husband. Olivera and the green child – wh
It tells the story of Olivera, a man who, sometime in the 1800's, embarks on an adventure that takes him across Europe and then to South America where he eventually becomes the dictator of Roncador, a small city near Buenos Ayres.
Part One tells the story of Olivera's encounter with the green child.
In it, Herbert Read offers a contrast between the practical difficulties involved in establishing a just and fair government in a world of changing uncertainties with the ideal sort of society that might exist in a changeless, perfect world.
In the first section (there are three), the hero, Olivero, returns to England in 1861 after a thirty year absence, that time having been spent mainly in the fictional country of Roncador, South America.
He does and in the remainder of the section they wander along the river and streams to a pool into which they enter and are transported to a different world inhabited by the aqueous green creatures of whom the woman, Siloën, is a member.Then, abruptly, in the second section the narrative shifts to Olivero’s experiences from thirty years prior.
Written in 1934 and first published by Heinemann in 1935, the story is based on the 12th-century legend of two green children who mysteriously appeared in the English village of Woolpit, speaking an apparently unknown language.
Each of the novel's three parts ends with the apparent death of the story's protagonist, President Olivero, dictator of the fictional South American Republic of Roncador.
In each case Olivero's death is an allegory for his translation to a "more profound level of existence", reflecting the book's overall theme of a search for the meaning of life.
The president of the former Spanish province of Roncador in South American fakes his own assassination and secretly returns to his native England and the village he left 30 years ago.
President Olivera is seeking to "escape from the sense of time, to live in the eternity of what he was accustomed to call 'the divine essence of things' - that was his only desire".But the first thing he notices on his return is that the stream that connects the old mill he used to live in and the station appears to be flowing in the opposite direction.
Then he meets the extraordinary naiad-like Green Child, who had caused a sensation in the village when she appeared just as he had left all those years ago.
