https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25354.Bastard_Out_of_Carolina
”He pinned me between his hip and the sink, lifting me slightly and bending me over. I reached out and caught hold of the porcelain, trying not to grab at him, not to touch him. No. No. No. He was raging, spitting, the blows hitting the wall as often as they hit me. Beyond the door, Mama was screaming. Daddy Glen was grunting. I hate him. I hated him. The belt went up and came down. Fire along my thighs. Pain. I would not scream. I would not, would not, would not scream.” Bone played by Jena Mal
He told Mama that all the girls loved him because he looked like Elvis Presley, only skinny and with muscles.
Daddy Glen, as he insists on being called, swears he loves Bone, but when he is not beating her he is pulling her against him; rubbing her up and down his body; his hands inside her clothes.
I liked Revelations, loved the Whore of Babylon and the promised rivers of blood and fire.
It struck me like gospel music, it promised vindication.”Bone loves her Mama so completely that she made me want to love her too.
Bastard Out of Carolina: A Reader's Personal Reflection “People pay for that they do, and still more, for what they have allowed themselves to become. And the pay for it simply: by the lives they lead. - James Baldwin” --From the epigraph to the novel.   "No one knows what goes on behind closed doors." It is hard to swallow, hard to believe, stories such as the one told by Dorothy Allison. The world would be a much prettier and more pleasant place if we did not have to believe things of the natu
The world would be a much prettier and more pleasant place if we did not have to believe things of the nature related by young Ruth Anne Boatwright, known to her family as Bone.But this I know is true.
At the turn of the Twentieth Century, I found cases of incest and carnal knowledge of a child under the age of twelve in the huge red leather bound docket books, the parties long dead.I was an Assistant District Attorney for twenty-eight years.
I had no idea of the world I was about to enter.The Judicial system was ill equipped to answer the problem of child abuse cases.
Her mama tried several times to get the word "illegitimate" removed from Bone's birth certificate, but the courthouse clerk just smirked at her."Mama hated to be called trash, hated the memory of every day she'd ever spent bent over other people's peanuts and strawberry plants while they stood tall and looked at her like she was a rock on the ground.
People from families like mine — southern working poor with high rates of illegitimacy and all too many relatives who have spent time in jail — we are the people who are seen as the class who does not care for their children, for whom rape and abuse and violence are the norm.
Insult me, make me angry, make me laugh, make me cry, leave my mouth agape from disbelief at your crude renunciations of what I thought was orthodox--all things that good books do.
The scene opens with Bone's mama, a teenage girl, heading to the county office to try and get the word "bastard" erased from her daughter's certificate.
Didn't like what it must have felt to be Bone.
Yet I couldn't help but like the Boatwright men--Earl especially.
There is no way I could have known what it felt like to be the Boatwrights, but Allison gave me some inkling.
This is one of those books that leaves you with so many questions, but I think the afterword really helped me understand the overall message, and it made me realize how important this book is.
This is a brutal and honest story about Ruth who grows up with her mother, her sister and her step-father in America.
This book is not for the faint-hearted, but still I think it's very important that everybody read it.
It's one of the most honest books I've ever read, and while especially one aspect of it seemed unrealistic to me, I couldn't help but embrace the book and cry over Ruth's fate.
This is such an important vital book for survivors of child sexual abuse and assault, that I was disheartened to learn from Dorothy Allison's postscript that her book has been censored in school systems from Maine to California. Bone howls with impotent rage at her stepfather, but turns most of her hatred against herself. Little children who suffer need this book to hear and understand that it's not their fault.
The story centres around "Bone" Boatwright a girl born fatherless to 15 years old Anney Boatwright and sexually and physically abused by her step-father Glen but part of a large extended family who know poverty and life is as hard as it gets a life where family matters but drinking and fighting is part of their existence.I personally found this a long drawn out harrowing story of abuse and relentless violence and while the story needed to be told I found the telling was just way too drawn out and repetitive.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “There’s need,” she said. “God knows there’s need.” Her voice was awesome, biblical. “God knows.” Bastard Out of Carolina had been on my TBR for an age due its prevalence on the annual Banned Books List. I’m not quite sure why I never got around to reading it before now, but since I’ve rectified that situation I would be a strong proponent for this being taught as a companion piece to To Kill A Mockingbird in high school literature cl
“God knows there’s need.” Her voice was awesome, biblical.
“God knows.”
Much like Mockingbird this is an unforgettable coming of age story that will forever stand the test of time.
Or as the book points out on a couple of different occasions – what if you read about the dirty white-trash Slatterys rather than the O’Haras in Gone with the Wind?The Black As Mitchell’s Heart label should be taken into consideration 100% before picking this up because it is as bleak and brutal as they come and it absolutely shredded what’s left of mine.
I didn't realize that this was one of the most depressing tales of physical and sexual abuse.
I had always looked forward to reading this novel and had the impression it was an empowering, coming-of-age story of a girl who triumphs over poverty and place.No triumph.
Just lots of stomach clenching scenes and dread in my heart and intestines.
Not an abuser among them.
Thank you, thank you, Sweet Jesus.My heart breaks for every child who's ever landed a bastard for a father or a step-father.
I'm really just too sensitive for these types of stories.
Daddy Glen would beat Bone and her mother asked, “What did you do to make him do that?”Allison explains her writing about abuse:The need to make my world believable to people who have never experienced it is part of why I write fiction.
Writing Bastard Out of Carolina became, ultimately, the way to claim my family's pride and tragedy, and the embattled sexuality I had fashioned on a base of violence and abuse.Source: http://www.historyisaweapon.com/defco...Reading the online essay from which those paragraphs are taken, will tell you much about Dorothy Allison and her writing.
The novel opens with the birth of main character and narrator of the story, Ruth Anne (nicknamed Bone), the illegitimate daughter of a 15-year-old member of the dirt poor Boatwright clan.
The novel is almost a picaresque story and spends a great deal of time giving a detailed look into what growing up poor in the rural south was like and the shame Bone feels of being looked down upon for being “trash”:“How am I supposed to know anything at all?
You feel the raw truth in what Bone says in the novel knowing it’s also the voice of the author who lived it all herself.
I laid on the floor in front of the TV and felt all the muscles in my body tense and a hot flush go through me as I watched the story of Bone , the bastard girl.
When Bone’s uncles find out how she’s been hurt they beat her step-daddy to a pulp—they but him in the hospital.
It was the book, page 300, near the end after Bone has been beaten and raped and her mama has left her to be with Daddy-Glen that I read the words that have been the only explanation that could ever come close.
Allison basically plagiarizes herself by, instead of expanding what was a quite good short story she wrote and published in High Risk: An Anthology of Forbidden Writings, simply cutting and pasting sections of it throughout the book (I actually went through it and identified the sections because I could scarcely believe a serious author would do something so incredibly lazy).
The book was published during a time when “empowerment novels,” written in a style similar to confessional memoirs, dealing with the taboo subjects of gay identify and childhood sexual abuse were enjoying a minor vogue, and I am convinced that a book written at the same level of artistry, but about different topics would have garnered little respect or notice.
Bone had the right idea when she went up on the roof: you got to hit them the only place they can feel, in the cash pocket.
Slow and stubborn, which felt just right.
And now I'm snake-bit: I need to hear more from Granny about what don't count except as bullshit and apple butter; I need to hear more of that gospel atheism from Earle; more from Raylene about the irrevocable choices we make when love seems like a tap running dry.
That Raylene, she figured out what Bone's mama never could rise to.
She tries for White Trash, but her Boatwrights are a close knit, caring extended family, where child rearing and money is shared, brothers stand up for their sisters and beat up errant brothers in law for good measure, no one seems to be cussing and frankly the worst of the lot is narrator Bone’s eight year old sister who seems to be masturbating 24/7 (as you do, at that age, right?) for no discernible reason (she was never the focus of incest or abuse).Daddy Glen is supposed to be ‘cold as death, mean as a snake and twice as twisty’: but rape scene apart, and I’m not excusing that, prithee (and again I go), this is a man who doesn’t drink, doesn’t beat his wife or raise his voice to her, keeps her and her two ‘bastard’ children even though she can’t have any children by him, and although bestowed with a remarkable propensity to get laid off work, seems to jump right back in the fray getting one job after another, thus perpetually employed.
This is a brutal life we live.
These loving actions and words can easily turn into anger and bring out the monster within.When all you know is ugliness, you become ugly.
Ugly, ugly, ugly.The last 40-50 pages made me feel anger, disgust and an anxiety that knows no comparison.
To those people I shall say: Life is disgusting, life is full of all the anger and ugliness I display above.
If we only look at the positive side of life, then we miss out on what lurks below; what we learn through our experiences makes us who we are and what we will always be.
God damn, this was rough as guts.
Narrated by Ruth Anne 'Bone' Boatwright, this a harrowing story of a dysfunctional but loving Southern American family that will find itself torn apart when Ruth's Mother falls for a monster of a man called Glen Waddell.
In a way the story far from a coming of age story is a tribute to her large cracker family.Bone's mother means the world to her and she wan't to do everything to make her happy so when a new man comes into the family home things seem good with Glen being a loving person who want's to be a husband and a father.
I have no doubt that some of those novels were based in part on the author’s experiences or real lives—but by moving the narrative over to fiction the author took on the responsibility of fully imagining a world separate from the perspective of one person’s experience.Many years ago, when I had been called for jury duty, a friend told me she could never serve on a case that involved abuse or rape.
I want a world in which no child goes hungry, fearful, or ashamed.Given the subject of this novel, it seems almost trivial to mention plot, prose, and characterization, but I almost never leave those unsaid.
A quotation that captures the theme of class and race in the context of southern history that dominates the novel: Reading Gone with the Wind with photos from the film, Bone "looked up from Vivian Leigh's pink cheeks to see Mama coming in from work with her hair darkened from sweat and her uniform stained.
For me, the overarching theme of the novel is the gender dynamic in which the women struggle to survive while the men drink, steal, and fight.
Some, of course, were more developed than others, but even the brief characters, like the doctor that first discovered Bone’s bruises, stuck out.I liked that I didn’t know all of the cultural references, but enough so that I knew about what time period the novel took place.
Bone’s life from beginning of the novel – the ridiculousness of her mother trying to get that birth certificate righted – to the wholly unrealistic act that ended the book.
It's 2008 and a lot of poor Southern white folks have a hard time.
i have no idea why this book gets so much love. the writing is mediocre, the story construction weak-linked, the point fudged by so much nonsense, it's blurry and romanticized and wrapped in cheap tin foil and smelling of county fair cotton candy. and the mistique of class: i like it just as much as i like the mistique of ethnicity, i.e. not at all.
She is angry, isolated, and hurt, despite being surrounded by a myriad of family members, and her mother is blind to the abuse because of her love for 'Daddy Glenn'.Overall, I thought the premise of this book was excellent - there were some truly heartbreaking scenes, particularly the ending, and some incredibly shocking moments.
I felt that the focus of the book, on Bone's home life and the abuse she had to deal with, became almost secondary to random tales and exploits with other family members.
Soprattutto Bone, che più di ogni altro deve scoprire sin da bambina che anche gli adulti possono far del male ai bambini e che nel suo mondo i bambini devono imparare a difendersi da soli e a lottare per credere nella propria innocenza, anche quando tutto e tutti li inducono a pensare di non esserlo e a credere nella loro colpevolezza, di essere loro a essere sbagliati.Ed è anche la storia di Dorothy Allison, come spiega l’autrice stessa nella sua bella postfazione, che nel 1996 scrive questo romanzo preferendolo alla forma del memoir già allora prescelta da altri autori per raccontare le esperienze di vita che li hanno segnati - perché, scrive, «La vita vera è molto più inverosimile di un romanzo.
A contemporary classic, this powerful novel is a disturbing tale of child abuse, told with wisdom and restraint.
Allison brilliantly tells the story through the first-person narrative of Bone, a young girl who doesn’t want to believe what’s happening to her, so for the most part she reveals the truth sparingly—which makes the more dramatic moments that much more terrifying.
Allison deftly captures the psychological nuances of the situation at the same time, making clear to the reader some things the innocent narrator probably doesn’t comprehend.
The ending is heartbreaking, as we see that the scars of abuse are not only physical; it is emotional betrayal that has the longest-lasting effects.
Shitty book.
Not badly written-characters not flat or cardboard.
So I really had to ask myself, "Why is this book so bad?
Why did I dislike it so much?" Answer: because it's boring.
Sure, stuff happens.
It's not logged down with too much detail, or badly executed, or anything like that.
The story, the events, the plot itself, is one of the most boring I've ever came across.We have this little girl.
She's born into bad circumstances, and that's okay.
But then bad shit happens to her.
On her web site Dorothy Allison says "What I am here for is to tell you stories you may not want to hear." Bastard Out of Carolina is definitely a hard story to hear.
Bone's mother is a complex and interesting character who either chooses not to protect her child or is unable to do so because she perceives her choices to be so limited.
Allison probably believes the latter—-she dedicated this book to the memory of her own mother.
As wonderful as this book is, it did lag a bit for me at parts, which is why I gave it 4 stars rather than 5.
It's still an amazing book!
Entertaining & sad semi-autobiographical tale of poverty and abuse in South Carolina: probably not for everyone though.
Even though I understand it's easy to judge others when we don't live in their worlds, I could not help but feel incredible anger at Anney (& her whole family really) for not protecting Bone.
I know Glen got beaten up once by the uncles, but it seemed like it was to satisfy their blood lust rather than to help their niece.
They were a bit concerned about her being beaten up-but no one seemed to care that she was VISCIOUSLY RAPED for crying out loud!
reading the book through Bone's eyes was like a gift.
To watch this little girls battle with herself, her mom, daddy glen, and family members only to be left alone is shocking.
a woman looking to be loved and comes off strong only to be a coward all because she loves a man and it is said that you should not make a woman choose between a child and a man.
each boatwright woman in this story is depicted as women who had to or will have to grow up fast and nothing would be easy for them (you can see by the aging described in their faces).
One thing I know for sure is that Bastard out of Carolina is, in the end, a very conservative book.
Ruth Anne Boatwright is a girl born the titular bastard to a teenage mother, Annie, and an absent father.
The novel ends with this reconciliation between daughter and mother than rang, to me, completely false and sentimental.
I think it had something to do with the fact that for much of the book Ruth Anne doesn't do anything but watch her colorful family members yell and lie at one another.
