https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/547853.Return_to_Gone_Away
Oh the innocence of that time and place! The Gone-Away Lake books are so enchanting! I can feel the children's excitement exploring the lake and bog areas and the "treasure" filled attic on rainy days; the mother's joy in cleaning and renovating an old abandoned house. A wonderful light and easy read, take joy!
It is a sequel to a book called Gone-Away Lake which tells the story of some children who come across a collection of abandoned summer homes in the woods (since the lake the houses used to be on had disappeared), and two lovely old people who make their homes there.
Return To Gone-Away is about how the children’s parents buy one of the old homes and fix it up.
I loved these books growing up, since living in an old home filled with mysterious antiques and hidden treasures was just about my number-one dream.
The perfect read-aloud to close out the summer for my 6- and 9-year-olds. Portia and Foster return to Gone-Away Lake, this time to live in the abandoned mansion their parents have bought. Lots of discovering and fixing up are done and a few adventures are had. Favorite moments: the swimming hole, the safe, the dumbwaiter.
OH. I liked this more than the first one. I don't even know why, really. I supposed I liked the established setting and character. The house was great and it did such a good job of showing childhood friendships and the sibling/cousin relationships!
I enjoyed this book, but I must say I didn't enjoy it as much as the first one. BUT! It as fantastically written and I loved the descriptions in every chapter.
I just love Elizabeth Enright's books. All of them, but the Gone-Away books have always been some of my favorites. Well, honestly, it's hard to pick a favorite when it comes to Elizabeth Enright. I'm just sorry that these books are all but forgotten on library shelves because they are "old-fashioned". So much childhood fantasy of summer adventures and discovering hidden rooms, and houses, and people and safes and attics full of treasures. Elizabeth Enright must have been my kind of person. :)
I loved this book all over again.
F'rinstance:"The air rang with the energetic, joyful clamor of the birds.
Only one, whose song came sweetly through the others, sounded meditative and solitary: three minor notes ascending...'What's that bird, Jule?
'White-throated sparrow,' he told her."And I found that it does sound exactly as described:White-throated Sparrow.There is also this, which I would like to have painted on the wall of my library:"Sometimes a story can open a world for you: you step into it and forget the real one you live in."That's how these books are.
My favorite line in the whole book: "He closed the door and tiptoed to the kitchen; he decided to have a little practice breakfast before his real breakfast."This from a little boy--and it so perfectly described what I have seen of little boys!
2014 Balm.
Hilarity and balm, that's what this book is.
And the white-throated sparrow.2013 "Sometimes a story can open a world for you: you step into it and forget the real one you live in."I love these books.
Not least because these two books were in the vanishingly small number of books that my son would deign to read.
Not least because Enright understood boys right down to the bone.
Certainly because of the quality of the prose, which is unequalled.
Certainly because of the characters.
Seriously, if you haven't read any Enright?
Stop trolling Goodreads and go read as much of her stuff as you can find.
I think I enjoyed this book even more than the first in the series.
Elizabeth Enright has such a way with words.
The adventures of Portia and her cousin Julian continue as Portia and her family return to Gone-Away Lake for the second summer.
They excitedly explore the old house that they found the previous summer looking for treasure.
I would recommend this book to anyone who loves stories of children being children in an age when they were free to roam the countryside without fear.
It is a children's book, but I think that I enjoyed it much more than I would have as a child.
The Return is as good if not better than the first. The kids are just as real and interesting. The story was more fast paced but not as deep. We listened to the audio version with the kids on a road trip, and they would move to Gone Away lake tomorrow if we could. They would get downright mad when we had to pause the audio. I recommend it for long trips or out-loud reading with kids.
Love this sequel! The two “Gone Away” books have so many elements that make wonderful childhood memories in reading.
There they meet elderly siblings Mr. Pindar Payton and Mrs. Lionel Alexis (Minnehaha) Cheever, whom they call Uncle Pin and Aunt Min. They also find an abandoned mansion, the Villa Caprice built by the wealthy Mrs. Brace-Gideon with which they fall in love.In this sequel, the Paul and Barbara Blake decide to buy and restore the Villa Caprice at Gone-Away, spending the entire next summer there.
At the end of that book in the 1950's, Julian finds one of the abandoned houses that was set away from the old lake and shut up tightly - the Villa Caprice.
Portia and Julian, her cousin, show it to their parents.
In the process of making the house habitable the kids make wonderful discoveries such as antique furniture, a seashell collection and a dumbwaiter.
It must have been wonderful to make new discoveries and have new adventures with your brother and cousins.
The family decides to live at the Villa Caprice all year round.
This book fulfills my itch to go to an old house and explore it, redecorate it, go to the attic and explore the chests, search for secret passages and drawers, find lost and forgotten relics of the past…Both Gone-Away and Return to Gone-Away have a great exploration and adventure feel to them.
Again, I love exploration and discovery, old houses, and the general adventure-y feel in books, and this book hits all of those points.Overall, Return to Gone-Away is a worthy, and oftentimes better, successor to Gone-Away.
I’d forgotten how much I love Enright, and these books reminded me.
I loved the Gone-Away Lake books, and I think I liked this second book even more than the first.
There are so many elements that I love in this book: the lazy summer days, the exciting treasures to be found in the Villa, the hard work that the children didn't complain about, the idea of finding such a perfect place with such exciting and beautiful indoors and outdoors, and of course the old-fashioned charm of Gone-Away itself.
What made this second book even more of a treasure to me was the fact that, at the end of the story, the characters found themselves a permanent home.
What child has not wanted to discover a lost place and create a special hidden retreat known only to herself and maybe a few friends? These are the continuing adventures of Portia and her family who are reclaiming an abandoned house in an old summer colony of houses. The house contains many secrets which will be discovered, along with the natural world waiting outside the door. Great book! possibly better than the first in the series, giving an idyllic feel of what childhood summer used to be.
Reading this and its companion volume Gone-Away Lake many decades after I first read them as a child it is astonishing to recall how young people at one time made their own adventures and how accepted it was to let children run free. This is a thoroughly wonderful story of how summers used to be and may never be again.
Another delightful, near idyllic childhood idyll from this author! If couldn't live a perfect adventure as a kid, these books are the next, best thing. Solid writing, interesting realistic characters, abandoned summer town with big old tumble down houses for a setting, family and friends to help fix one up--such fun.
The first book was already perfection. How could it possibly get better? Oh, I know: their parents could buy one of the abandoned old Victorian homes full of enviable antique left-behind items, and then they could fix it up and move there.Both of these books are basically my dream life.
We loved this as a read aloud!
Makes me nostalgic for what childhood used to be...
I love how, when reading this book, you remain in the present but you are also in the best part of the turn-of-the 19th-century past: the Victorian excess in houses, clothes and furniture.
Then she spends her days out in nature which is, of course, timeless, and visiting an enclave of houses from the turn of the century that have not been modernized and include two people from the past who live and dress as if they are still in the past.
It's always a little difficult coming to a series 'second book in as it were' as you do tend to miss a lot of what's gone on.
Enright is a Newbery award winner (indeed, for the prequel Gone-Away Lake), and this book is full of rich quality in every word.It's rather interesting to parallel Return To Gone-Away with an author much more familiar to me, somebody like Philippa Pearce and Minnow On The Say for example.
And maybe that's it, that's the mark of a good book wherever it may be found or whenever it appears in the series, that concern for the childish perspective and making that way of seeing be seen.
What sets Return to Gone-Away apart even from Elizabeth Enright's other respected junior novels is its essence as a celebration of yesterday's mysteries intersecting with the present, exemplified in the castle-like old mansion purchased and restored by Portia Blake's family throughout the book.
Yes, eleven-year-old Portia, her seven-year-old brother Foster, and their parents are returning to the scene of last summer's adventures at Gone-Away Lake, where they now have ownership claim to the massive estate of long-dead heiress Mrs. Brace-Gideon.
The reunions with the area's residents are as satisfying as expected for readers of Gone-Away Lake, and it isn't long before almost everyone has joined in the task of reinvigorating the Villa Caprice for occupation by Portia's family.
The rubber mask dangled under his chin like a hideous bib" (27)."...supported by pillars set with cobblestones that reminded one of monstrous chunks of peanut brittle" (35)."...Portia agreed, giving her brother a hug before he could defend himself" (49)."...after she had cautiously mounted the attic stairs and done her share of grown-up furniture-worshiping..." (74)."'...the redwings calling, and the bullfrogs grumping, and the roses...'" (81)."'I like this day,' Julian said.
Perfection."And Portia and Julian burst from the house leaping and shouting: glad that it was raining hard and glad that they were children" (138)."He did all the things in a proper kitten should do.
Gone-Away Lake ended with Mr. and Mrs. Blake telling their two children, Portia and Foster, that they have purchased Villa Caprice--an abandoned lakeside mansion from the 1880s that hasn't been touched in fifty years.
As an adult, I loved the scenes where Mrs. Blake and her sister oogling the Waterford chandelier and original Chippendale furniture; I laughed at the children's unimpressed reactions to the attic-full of valuable antiques.This would be a great read-aloud book for a family: there is a little bit for all to appreciate--a scary night in a (possibly) haunted house for adventurous boys; fortune-telling and dress-up for girls; and the antique-financed renovation for adults.
All of the characters from Gone-Away Lake are here, including the aforementioned Portia and Foster, as well as cousin Julian, Mrs. Cheever, Mr. Payton, and others.
In this book, the characters spend much of their time fixing up and exploring the old homes at Gone-Away.The book maintains the tone of the original and is a very light, fun book.
Even though it was published in the 1960s, I think a certain type of modern child will like reading about the characters exploring old houses and learning about the past.
I finished this summer read with just a shred of summer left (technically speaking, the foreseeable weather forecast in my neck of the woods is still showing temps in the 80s & 90s!)Excellent writing and an excellent audio narration. Someday I'd like to go back and listen to the audio of the first book as well. As with the first book, Enright again captures a bit of the magic of childhood adventures. I think the book shows its age though in how it stereotypes Native American and Chinese people when they are spoken of in the story.
Who said that books need conflict to be good or a fun read. This is definitely a book that hearkens back to the 50s and early 60s of good, clean children's fun. After watching or hearing the news this is a nice antidote. Though, it can be a good read for any age group.
