https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16065004-shadows-of-self
4.75⭐JUST HOLD THE FUCK UP. THAT ENDING! H... HOW!Leave it to Sanderson to come out of the left field and soccer punch you right in the brain! That's right, you COULD get soccer punched in the brain. It's a risk one has to take when picking up his book.Honestly, I'm very hesitant to say anything so as not to run the risk of spoiling too much as his renown lies in his unexpected plot twists and intriguing-as-hell narrative turns. But what I CAN say is that the narrative begins and ends with a ban
There’s a boatload of Allomantic action, divine and Cosmere-related lore, great character development, some emotion filled chapters, and - stating the very obvious here but if there's one thing Brandon Sanderson is a master of, it's world-building!It continues to flesh out the wild west-styled world of Mistborn and this time around, with some unexpected appearances of familiar faces.
Wax, Wayne, and Marasi were each given a compelling journey in this book that deepened their characters and their world, as they move through a spectrum of emotion and deal with their inner demons, so to speak.
Sanderson is the very embodiment of magic, great writing, and amazing adventures. PERFECTION.
And to make the plot even better, and Wax’s life just that little bit harder, the Gods start talking to him.
It’s all about Wayne The best thing about this book was the splitting of the point of views.
Wax is a cool enough character, but Wayne steals the stage.
This is obviously Wax’s story, but I think a novella about Wayne would be rather perfect.
I think one day, when Wax finally loses it, he seems to becoming more and more unhinged, Wayne may have to put him down or at least pick him back up again.
These books are purely additive to the original, they're existence only enhances your experience as a reader and a fan.I just can't even wrap my head around the idea that someone can have all of this magnificence just sitting around inside them?
If I wake up in the morning without hitting snooze I'm pretty proud of myself.
I couldn't imagine being master of a creation like Mistborn.I don't know you guys, just officially consider me #Sanderstruck!Buddy read with this sweet angel!
Super fast re-read with some friends at Buddies Books and Baubles before Bands of Mourning. Knowing the ending made certain parts of this book just heartbreaking. I love that almost every BS book I reread I enjoy just as much if not more the second time through. All the original Mistborn nostalgia was FAN-FREAKING-TASTIC!4.5 Faceless Immortal Stars The Fan Girl Part of My Review Deal with it he is like my FAVORITE fantasy author….but there will be a real review below this I am in AWE yet again t
Also I really loved the way she played with the team, I hope she is a player in the next book as well.Most Improved Character -Steris Don’t get me wrong I’m still completely on the Wax/Marasi ship and it might take a Chasmfiend or Koloss Warlord to sink that but Steris really grew on me this book.
Because I loved her in that moment and I could even see how she and Wax might become really good friends or perhaps more BUT I’m sailing on the good ship MaraWax or Waxasi and there isn’t a Chasmfiend in sight yet so…..sorry Steris.The new danger is a serial killer that seems to be trying to destabilize the city and throw it into a chaos similar to the events that led up to the last big shift of power in recent history *cough* Mistborn *cough*.
5 Faceless Immortal Stars ★★★★★   "I'm not Harmony's hands," Wax whispered "I'm His sword."  *fan girl mode activated* Like seriously, smack my ass and call me sue, what DID I JUST READ OMG DYING & HYPERVENTILATINGWarning this review contains mass amounts of fan girling, word vomit & worship of Brandon Sanderson.Okay let's be real this book is seriously awesome & I mean like the best shit ever. I honestly can't believe how long it took me to read this book, 6 months to be exact.. How
*fan girl mode activated* Like seriously, smack my ass and call me sue, what DID I JUST READ OMG DYING & HYPERVENTILATINGWarning this review contains mass amounts of fan girling, word vomit & worship of Brandon Sanderson.Okay let's be real this book is seriously awesome & I mean like the best shit ever.
Well let me tell you I feel like after I read the Heroes of Ages I was in a Sanderson slump for a long time, that ending it killed me, it made me depressed in real life so I'm very happy to be back enjoying his books!
Wow, this was underwhelming... SAID NO ONE EVER! Wtf was that Sanderson? Did I hurt you in your past life or something? Why are you doing this to me? 😭If Wayne died at the end thinking about his favorite hat, I'm gonna cry like a mofo! I need someone to love me like he loves his hats 😂
Well, I stand by my words and I continue to encourage you more to read them, especially after reading Shadows of Self, you'll realize even more just how damn great Sanderson is.As its sequel, Shadows of Self improved A LOT upon the foundation laid down by Alloy of Law, whether it's in terms of characters, writings, world-building or plot, everything here is just enhanced to fully entertained you from beginning to the end of the book.
The plots are very interesting it will keep you flipping through those pages (I finish the book in 3 days since I began despite having a full time job.)Great characters and development are one of the greatest strength from the original trilogy and it continues its strength here.
As my lovely friend Mary said in her review, it felt like Sanderson wrote a love letter to the fans of his original Mistborn trilogy, and I loved it so much.Returning to a world you love three hundred years after the events that drew you there the first time can be jarring, which I think unfairly influenced my view of The Alloy of Law the first time I read it.
Characters that we know and love from the original trilogy are now the figures of myth, with entire religions built around them, and it’s fascinating to read.
[4.5 Stars] My emotions! I'll try to write a more coherent review when, "Ahhhhhh I loved it aahhhhhhh," isn't the only thing I can think of.
This was every bit as good as The Alloy of Law. The whole Mistborn series really is fantastic reading!
Wax, Wayne, and Marasi are back on the case of another mystery.
To complicate matters they also have to stop the civil unrest in Elendel from boiling over into a full blown riot.The story was a ton of fun.
It was packed full of the action, mystery,and humour that one expects from a Sanderson read.
This ended with a few shock twists that have left me dying to read the third instalment of the Wax and Wayne adventures.
And trust me, you won't see most of them coming.
Even when you think you have it all figured out,  you don't!The Kendra SituationRules #1 when reading a Mistborn book: Never trust a Kendra.
Remember in Mistborn when (view spoiler)[ Tensoon screwed us over?
(hide spoiler)] Well, I learned from my mistakes.
I figured out pretty early on that (view spoiler)[ the governor was the Kendra.
(hide spoiler)]However, what I didn't see coming was (view spoiler)[ that freaking Lessie had been Bleeder all along!!!
(hide spoiler)]Bu-but...
I did not see that ending coming at all.
The tears, you guys.
THE TEARS.
'Shadows of Self' genres are fantasy, sci-fi, crime and mystery.I really like 'The Alloy of Law' and 'Shadows of Self' but I think 'Shadows of Self' is a lot better than 'The Alloy of Law'.I really like MeLaan.
The second book in this series is just as good if not better than the first.You don’t need to think about this too much.
Wayne is his brilliant, devil-may-care self with a brand of humour that is definitely unique and he still has an interesting affection for hats."“I need you to stay behind as we go into those slums,” Wayne said, determined to impress solemnity into his voice.
I did love that we got to see some of the old characters from the first trilogy though, and also the conversations with Harmony.I leave you with my favourite quote in the book.
Me. All day. Every day. Every time I read this book. No matter how many times I read it.  I am not even lying when I say that the ending to this book touches me in my very soul.  It might be one of the slowest Mistborn books, but HOLY CRAP it's so good. And also completely necessary to truly appreciate the characters and the story to come. I tend to not really leave reviews for Sanderson books. Sorry. It's not even worth wasting my time leaving a detailed review. Just please read these books if
Every time I read this book.
No matter how many times I read it.
I am not even lying when I say that the ending to this book touches me in my very soul.
It might be one of the slowest Mistborn books, but HOLY CRAP it's so good.
I tend to not really leave reviews for Sanderson books.
It's not even worth wasting my time leaving a detailed review.
Just please read these books if you haven't.
PLEASE READ THEM.****1st Read: October 6th, 2015****Wow. In terms of content, this was the slowest book of the Mistborn series (that's just my opinion).
The ending made it all worth it.
We have reached an era of modernism, both louder and more silent at the same time.""The days of heroes has passed.
We have reached an era of modernism, both louder and more silent at the same time.
An author like Sanderson doesn't write bad books, and I have enjoyed everything I've read by him.
The second is more like “fun stories in the Mistborn universe” than an actual continuation of the spectacular storyline.
I will keep reading the Mistborn series with interest, but it seems like in my eyes, the Stormlight Archive will surpass it in quality by a clear mile very soon.
Actual Rating: 4.5In a nutshell: Another awesome Mistborn novel with a twist I really didn't see coming.
Wow!The sad thing about this book is that I really wanted it once I started seeing it in bookstores but it was too expensive, then when I finally got a copy (thank you forever, Hachette Australia!) I fell into my worst reading slump of the year.
Personally I'm liking Marasi a lot more than I liked Vin. Vin was a more prominent character and had more development, but I'm really liking Marasi's role and personality.Like with The Alloy of Law, I love the bromance between Wax and Wayne.
I’m a big fan of Brandon Sanderson, and I absolutely loved The Alloy of Law – probably more than all three books of the original Mistborn trilogy put together, so small wonder that I was really looking forward to this follow-up.If there’s one thing I can never resist, it’s a good Fantasy meets Western setting.
And for those who enjoyed the original trilogy, The Alloy of Law and Shadows of Self will introduce you to a fresh start featuring great new characters in a dynamic world that evolves with time.
El mundo de Scadrial y la alomancia siguen siendo tan geniales como recordaba, pero además Sanderson ha logrado compensar su punto débil: los personajes.
Y además, las referencias a la primera trilogía y la aparición puntual de ciertos personajes le dan una sensación de continuidad al mundo y un dulce toque nostálgico a la mezcla.Con ganas de que llegue Bandas de Lamentos.
Claro que no será el final de las aventuras de Wax y Wayne, aún queda después de eso El Metal Perdido.
I thought that Alloy of Law was fun and entertaining, but I didn't think it really captured my attention or interest as much as the original Mistborn trilogy despite bringing new ideas and magic to a world I already knew and loved.My biggest complaints with this book are that I feel it's probably a bit too predictable (at least I worked out what the 'twist' was before it happened which was a little annoying) and it's a lot faster paced than many f Sanderson's other adult Cosmere books.
I'm still positive that Sanderson can't write a novel that isn't amazing.I've got to say that my favorite thing about Shadows of Self is that, even it had completely different tone from original Mistborn trilogy, I still felt like I was reading an original Mistborn novel, and that brought a lot of feelings of nostalgia.
Sanderson sure loves to play with our feelings.In conclusion, if you've read The Mistborn series and for some reason haven't decided to pick this series up, you're really missing out.
Like I've said, this series isn't quite as good as the original Mistborn series, but it still is pretty damn close.
Brandon's books have never let me down and every single time I am completely blown away by how incredible and twisted they are.
This book was definitely a step up from the last one and we got to hear about all of the characters from the original Mistborn trilogy which was so good!
The return of two of those characters was amazing and I had to hold back tears every time someone who had died was mentioned.
This book is a work of art and if you haven't read a book by Brandon Sanderson yet then you are definitely missing out!
[4.5] I'm dead. That avalanche ending has worn me out to the fullest. I'm emotionally exhausted to the point I feel dead inside. RTC. Or not.
Okay 😏
4.5 Fascinante. E intenso. Right in the feels...Hay dos cosas que me gustaría resaltar. La primera es que Shadows of Self, para mi gusto, es muy superior a su predecesor. La segunda es que te odio, Sanderson. Dejaste mi mente estropeada, entumecida, en un vaivén entre la consciencia y la inconsciencia, y esta vez, no bastándote con eso, aplicaste una dosis de agua salada en mis córneas.
Jan 2016: Audiobook reread before release of Bands of Mourning.Yep, still 4.5 stars rating after reread (rounded up because Sanderson-DUH!); only because it didn't feel as epic as the initial Mistborn trilogy.
(hide spoiler)]One of the best parts of this book was the more omnipresent reminders of the legacy and doctrine left behind by the characters that we have read and loved in the initial Mistborn trilogy, which was quite absent in Alloy of Law. A couple more days before the release of Bands of Mourning, and I am rightfully dying of anticipation.
HOOOOOOOOOW?! Sanderson, you've bloody ruined me again! Oh, Harmony! Come at me Bands of Mourning! RTC - as soon as I review1. The Hero of Ages (view spoiler)[don't hold your breath - how do you review that?! Too much, Brandon. Too much. (hide spoiler)]2. The Alloy of Law3. ALL THE OTHER BOOKS I SAY I WILL REVIEW.
Oh Wax.
And even though we have left Vin and Elend and Kelsier and so many other beloved characters behind the more modern world we find ourselves in now is just as grand and wonderful.Second books in trilogies are tricky things.
Things still felt new and exciting even into the second book.Secondly we got more backstory and perspectives, and not just from Wax. We learn about Wayne's haunted past and how it informs his outlook on life, making him more than the wacky side kick.
If you haven't read the original Mistborn Trilogy, then you definitely need to before reading this book, or its predecessor, The Alloy of Law. I appreciated how much this one did connect to the trilogy, even more so than Alloy did.
But overall I found the book to be a bit slow.
There's just something lacking in the characters compared to Vin, Elend, Sazed and all the original trilogy members.
Don't get me wrong, I do really like Wax, Wayne, Marasi and the few new characters we get in this one.
But they just don't stack up to the originals.
