https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77616.The_Red_Box
So when a potential client shows up Archie develops a devious plan not only to get Nero Wolfe take the case, but also to lure him outside to the shop where a crime was committed.
The client changes his mind quickly and tries to stop Wolfe's investigation, but the great detective felt he was committed the moment he went outside.As usual this Nero Wolfe mystery is less about the mystery (the identity of villain was obvious after the first half of the book, the detectives spent the rest of it trying to collect evidence which was practically non-existent), but more about interactions between characters which are nothing short of brilliant and very funny at times.
The start of another beautiful relationshipThe Red Box was the fourth of Rex Stout’s Nero Wolfe murder mysteries.
It was published in 1937.
It is also the first Nero Wolfe book I have ever read...and what an enjoyable introduction it was too.
I loved the irascible, inscrutable, quirky, larger-than-life Wolfe.Wolfe's exploits are narrated by his able assistant Archie, himself a perfect foil for Wolfe: world weary, hard bitten, cynical and slyly humorous.Overall it's a curious and pleasing hybrid of Agatha Christie and Raymond Chandler - if you like either writer, and especially if you like both, then this should provide lots to love.
It did for me, and I look forward to reading more.
Wolfe actually leaves the brownstone in this one, always a notable occurrence, and Archie gets cut out of the information loop, a much less notable (but always fun) one.
Stout's wife was a fashion designer, so he knew the world of fashion well; he's writing a story set in his milieu, with no vague or ill-informed references to gold prospecting or Argentina or whatever.
(And it's fun to note the differences between the modern fashion world and the one of almost a century ago.)Basically, the first three novels are skippable for everyone except Wolfe fanatics.
Early Wolfe and Archie. 1930s detective jargon and smart talk a little over the top, writing a little baggy, still working out the characters. More dependent on plot than later ones. You’ll beat Archie (but not Wolfe, of course) to the answer, but probably not by a lot; at least to the ful solution. Murder methods not terribly convincing, but not the point. But the payoff is that this one isn’t formulaic; this is Stout laid bare, trying out attitudes and relationships among the eight or so characters we’ll come to know and love.
Another fun Nero Wolfe.
There was still the wonderful repartee between Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin, but it was less frequent and less pointed.
The characterizations of the non-Wolfe employees was better in this one.
Murders in real life tend to be by persons known to the victim rather than by some random person.
We are introduced fairly early to all of the possible perpetrators, only to have further murders.
That said, I was fairly certain of some of the facts that Stout did not reveal until the last 10 pages.
Good, solid fun, but no pretense of being more than 3-stars.
I love Nero Wolfe. This book was published in 1937. This installment has Nero investigating the poisoning death of a young woman. As the investigation proceeds, more victims pile up. Wolfe actually leaves his home! At the time this was written, this mystery would have been a real puzzler. But, I had my suspicions about half way through. I didn't have all the details worked out though. The best part was. Archie's narrative. It seemed like he was sharper and downright funny in this one. A great classic mystery!
Still love this series, but I had it figured out simultaneously with Nero. This one was a bit too obvious.New York, 1936
An excellent entry in the Nero Wolfe series.
In this tale, the wrong target dies by poisoning.
Part of the eventual twist is telegraphed almost immediately, but how we, the readers, get there is a perfect set-up by Rex Stout.
There are three murders in the story, and the third was an actual surprise.
Wolfe had already solved the case of course, but it shows just how desperate people are when it comes to money, especially money they have no right to in the first place.Stout was firing on all cylinders here, with an ending that satisfies, yet still infuriates just a little bit.
Being a relatively obsessive individual I sought out and read every Nero Wolfe mystery Stout wrote.
In The Red Box Wolfe has to track down a vicious poisoner-this novel was classic Stout with a good mystery and good interaction between the characters faithful readers have come to know and love: Wolfe, Archie Goodwin, Inspector Cramer, etc.
I know in my heart that, relatively untouched by time, Wolfe still visits his orchids from four to six each day.
Perhaps now there is a laptop on Archie's desk which annoys Wolfe to no end.
I am a fan of Nero Wolfe.
However, I am finding the earlier books by Rex Stout very unrealistic and I can't escape into Archie and Wolfe's world in pure enjoyment.
This book was very easy to read, but the ending was unbelievable.
(view spoiler)[How did the murderer know what was in the red box and then comprehend it was for committing suicide?
(hide spoiler)]I did appreciate a younger and less experienced Archie, who was filled with self-doubt and made some mistakes in the investigation.
His swagger was bigger, but his self-confidence less, in this book compared to his later adventures.
Another enjoyable Nero Wolfe book. The mystery is fairly predictable, but the contemporary setting of 1938 New York is interesting, while both Wolfe’s surliness and Archie’s contrasting banter are great fun.This book is supposedly notable because Wolfe is persuaded to leave his house (a rare event) to pursue the mystery, but I was a little disappointed. The visit did not seem very meaningful, hence the extraordinary (and hilarious) measures taken were wasted.
3.5 StarsI didn’t enjoy this Nero Wolfe mystery quite as much as the previous two, but it still had me laughing, guessing, puzzled and purely thrilled by its brilliance, which is what I always expect from Rex Stouts purely original literary creations in Archie Goodwin, Nero Wolfe, and his cast of dynamic and often hilarious characters.
I’m not saying I didn’t enjoy this novel; quite the contrary.
Archie and Nero are two of the craziest characters I’ve ever encountered in all of literature.
I listened to this my first of the Nero Wolfe mystery series.
And he suits the wry humor of this novel.
Nero is the brains behind the series.
He has a sidekick, Archie Goodwin, who gets most of the clues and just can’t seem to make heads or tail of the evidence.
So expect to be in the viewpoint of Archie.
It may be easy to solve whodunnit, even if there are some twists to the final denouement.
And yes, there is that final scene when all are gathered for the brilliant and shocking reveal.
Good book, but I did guess the murderer in this one. One glaring mistake was that a Scottish person called themselves Scotch, which is something that would never happen!Archie Goodwin continues to entertain me.
Earlier in my life I read quite a few Nero Wolfe novels, but I do not remember this one. It impressed me then that they aged well. It was not difficult to put them in the present day. With the exception of the changes in communication technology, that is still true. Although Archie clearly has less traffic to contend with in New York City and environs.
Nero Wolfe is manipulated into leaving the comforts of his brownstone when Llewellyn Frost presents him with a letter from several of his esteemed colleagues in the orchid-growing world imploring the detective to leave his office, leave his faithful staff, leave his orchid-filled greenhouse and travel twenty blocks (eight minutes) to the office of Boyden McNair Incorporated to investigate the poisoning of a beautiful young model.
Frost had tried to get Wolfe involved as soon as the death occurred, but the great man would not leave home and none of the suspects and witnesses would visit the brownstone.
(Did Mr Stout stop smoking himself, at some point?) Archie Goodwin is more sarcastic in the older novels, and is not above making racist statements about foreigners, or members of ethnic groups such as "sheenies"; he got over this in later novels (such as A Right to Die--but then, so did a large portion of American society, at least on the surface.
When a case isn't going well, Wolfe retreats into the kitchen and cooks and eats--and makes Fritz cook wild recipes which require Archie to go in search of arcane ingredients,sometimes endangering life and limb in the process.
You know you'll get the corpulent, compulsive Wolfe casting withering remarks at clients, suspects and cops alike as he solves the case between compulsory breaks for fine dining, cold beer, and tending his beloved orchids.
You know you'll get the crackerjack patter and cynical armchair psychology of legman/narrator Archie Goodwin.
To an extent, the whodunit hardly matters, because Wolfe, Goodwin and the rest are rendered with such verve and humor (as well as a moral compass that never errs, even if it occasionally skirts the law).In this outing, the body count is a bit steeper than usual, and the mystery perhaps less opaque than in other cases.
The picture I have of Nero Wolfe is of the television series years back.
But, that doesn't matter to the pictures carried in the books of Wolfe's mannerisms and habits.
This case is about a murder that Llewellyn Frost is afraid involves his cousin, Helen, and insists that Wolfe solve it.
Lew doesn't like Helen working for her godfather.
Frost keeps losing his calm and flying off in all directions.
He is thoroughly aggravating and annoying.Then Helen's godfather dies and she turns to Wolfe to find his murderer, in spite of her family's protests.
READATHON! This was my first Nero Wolfe, and though it got a bit sludgy at times, it had plenty charm and sass to enjoy it. Plus, i have a soft spot for cyanide poisoning. Nero is defo my new fave pretentious obese detective, and although he ventures outside once in this novel i hear that's a bit of a one-off, and the fact that he solves crimes behind his desk, whilst tending to his orchids and drinking cold beer, means he rules. Though Archie is really the star of the show here, what a dude.
"The Red Box" is the fourth book in Rex Stout's "Nero Wolfe" series. It was first published in 1937, so it describes a world very different from today. But, what can I say? The book follows Stout's standard of excellent plot, tongue-in-cheek humor, wonderful use of the language, and an interesting, head-scratcher of a mystery. I rate it at an Excellent 5 stars out of 5.
This is one that I wish Timothy Hutton and Maury Chakin had made into a screenplay for A&E. This is one of my favorites, for the language, plot, and the scene at the end, yes, but really for the sense of the times in New York.
A solid entertaining Wolfe mystery once again.I have read fer de lance and the rubber band before an
Good bits: * Archie figuring out a way to get Wolfe to leave the brownstone and visit a fashion designer's office where a fashion model has died (from eating a poisoned chocolate probably meant for someone else).
* Helen Frost, who shows a great deal more steel and composure than is immediately apparent.* Archie managing to pull Wolfe back from the beginning of a 'relapse' and refocusing him on the case.
I don't think the murderer would have acted the way they did, and too much about Wolfe's actions didn't ring true.
There are a few places that I slip into when I need a break from the real world.
Nero Wolfe's brownstone is one of them.Not that anyone seems content to let the hefty genius stay put, as he gets blackmailed and bullied out to a scene of a crime, and grumbles for the rest of the book about it.A fashion house, a poisoned box of chocolates, and a complicated family with secrets upon secrets.
Can Archie keep his boss from hiding in the kitchen when there is a killer to be caught.
Well, of course.God, I love Nero Wolfe.
Just good old fashioned sleuthing.
(Read in the omnibus edition with The Rubber Band, which has several typos.) Stout explores the many ways in which poison can be administered, and Archie for once keeps his libido pretty much in check. Some good passages, including one in which Archie describes someone working at a funeral home as exuding "chronic but aristocratic melancholy." A puzzling mystery (though, of course I'm always puzzled) and a nicely tangled web.
I love Nero Wolfe and Archie. My dad got me started reading them when I was in High School and I've always felt bad that he died the year before the final novel came out. I decided to re-read all of them this year and that should get me through with my 2018 challenge pretty easily since they are so readable. Finished one of my favorites, Some Buried Caesar at 1:00 this morning. Just catching up on the ones I've read out of my yellow paged paperback editions.
I forgot that inspector Cramer ever smoked his cigars. He chews on a few as is more his norm throughout the collection, but actually lights up a few times. I love that this story was looking enough that I started guessing whodunit. I love even more that I completely bombed. I really wanted the box to be inside the big chair Wolfe steals from McNair at the beginning. Oh well.
Nero Wolfe on tavattoman äkäinen tutkiessaan Molly Lauckin kuolemantapausta. Hänen mielialaansa ei helpota yhtään se, että asiakkaan lähipiiri on kovin eripurainen kaikista tutkimuksiin liittyvistä asioista. Tarinasta kehkeytyy varsin jännittävä, eikä siitä puutu yllättäviä käänteitä. Punaisen rasian arvoitus on 1930-luvun dekkarikirjallisuuden huppua.
I didn't enjoy this one as much as the ones before it. Wolfe is just a bit *too* eccentric and a lot too cranky. I was able to guess the secret in this one fairly early on, but not the identity of the murderer until right before did his big reveal. I still enjoyed Archie's humor and the plot, but I'm looking forward to the next one in the hope that I'll like Wolfe himself a bit better this time.
