https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66929.The_Agony_of_Alice
Ngga ada satu orangpun yang pernah bilang sama gue, kalo jadi remaja itu SUSAH.Lebih susah dari sekedar naik metromini ke melawai, terus ngerjain soal-soal spmb yang hasilnya cuma bisa menjawab 4 pertanyaan buat mata pelajaran matematika yang jumlah soalnya ada..
Kalo ngga percaya.Tapi untung ada mama yang membantu gue melewati semua itu dengan baik.Yang memberi tahu bedanya Laurier kemasan warna hijau dan pink.
"Karena kamu kan udah ada TETE-nya." *ngejengkang*Yang mengenalkan bedak Harum Sari..Yang membekali sisir, handuk dan baju dalam bersih di hari-hari setiap kali ada pelajaran olah raga.Yang memilihkan baju baru buat lebaran karena kebanyakan baju gue saat itu adalah kaos dan jeans.
My Alice collection is mismatched from all the different print runs, so I broke down and bought the matching set with the new covers.
The font and style has been synced for all of the volumes, and very small updates have been made (probably unnoticable if you haven't read these books over a dozen times) such as "milkman" being changed to "mailman." But this is still the same Alice who debuted in 1986 and I met in 1998, with her same agonies and embarassing moments.
If you haven't read any of these stories, you need to.
I hope these never go out of print.
What a great middle grade read.
You know a middle grade book is above average when you can read it as an adult and still love it.
My own mother died when I was 13 so I know what it is like to want to find a "replacement mother".
I am glad I stumbled upon this series ( I saw one of the later books when Alice is in high school at the library) and feel a little overwhelmed that I have so much catching up to do (1 down, 20 to go!), but so far I can't wait to spend more time with Alice.
Very cute and sweet. No real mean girls, no real dysfunction, no major whining or melodrama... but not too innocent, either. I can definitely see the appeal for some girls. But would I have loved it when I was a pre-teen? I think maybe, but otoh I might not even have picked it up, being more into horse stories and fairy tales at the time. It got better, richer, after the first several chapters, and I have hopes for the sequel(s). I see there's more titles in the series than I can imagine reading, though, so we'll see.
The Agony of Alice showed all of Alice's troubles like being new, getting a teacher that she didn't want, and not making friends very easily.
As I got farther into the book Alice slowly started to progress in the things she needed to work on, and started accepting her teacher, and making friends.
At the end of the book Alice was a new person, she had many friends, and was practically her teachers daughter!
I really enjoyed the book The Agony of Alice, and I look forward to reading farther into the series.
I can never believe that these are some of the most banned books in America when they handle growing up in such an innocent and thoughtful way.Arguably, the lesson of this one is that beauty is on the inside, as observed through Alice's relationship with Mrs. Plotkin.
The way their relationship unfolds is very sweet and ties everything together quite nicely.Observations on a re-read:I was surprised at all the references to Christianity -- Methodists vs.
Her yearning for a replacement mother is so palpable and hard to read.Alice's first incredibly-detailed Amtrack ride, and definitely not her last.I love how undramatic these books are.
*Reviewed on Page Turners Blog for Banned Books Week on October 4, 2012*According to the American Library Association (ALA), Phyllis Reynolds Naylor’s Alice series has been one of the most challenged year after year.
There’s the moment her nineteen year old brother takes her shopping for jeans, there’s the moment where she realizes the beautiful teacher next door to her classroom may not be as kind as Alice hoped she was  and then there’s the moment with her father where Alice learns that perhaps (even without a mother around) she just might make it through her adolescence.The book is funny and well written and I can hardly wait for my girls to read it.
Her father calls her "Al" and her brother doesn't know that jeans come in girls sizes as well as boys.
I think that any middle grade age girl would enjoy this one.
I like the idea of a series that a young girl can read as she moves from sixth grade through high school along with Alice.
I know that the later books, when Alice is in high school, deal with more mature subjects.
But, from what I can see by the synopses, they are subjects that a lot of high school kids deal with every day.
I was in 7th grade band and my fellow flutist was reading one of the Alice books.
Which meant, of course, that I rushed right to the library and checked out all the Alice books I could find.
I read them over and over and over again and I loved them each time.Recently, I decided to revisit Alice.
(I love the boy in the blue underpants.)As a teacher, it was fun to read about Mrs. Plotkin, and how she touched Alice's life.
I think all girls should read these books.
It's sweetly funny watching Alice deal with all of these things.
Alice McKinley is sure she is the most embarrassing person on earth.
She is also sure it's because she doesn't have a mother to show her what to do.
Alice thinks if she can only get the beautiful Miss Cole as her teacher this year, she can adopt Miss Cole as her surrogate mother and get back on the right track.
Alas, she is Mrs. Plotkin's room, and Alice is mortified.
Will Alice ever grow up?
Or will she keep growing backwards?I thought Alice was so spot-on as an adolescent girl.
EVERY girl her age is convinced she is a mess.
The Agony of Alice is a fun book and Alice is a character that a lot of people can connect to.
It's one of those books that when you start reading you can't stop.
Alice's mom died when she was younger and Alice is the women of the house; she live with her dad and her older brother Lester.
She is going to start sixth grade soon with her friends, Pamela and Elizabeth.
This book literally took me 40 minutes to read but it brought back a lot of memories.
I first had to read this series in my 5th grade class.
I recently got a galley of the last book in this 24 book series and have decided to take it upon myself to re-read the old books that I haven't read in a good 15 years, and read some of the ones I didn't bother reading, culminating in the final book in the series.
This book was a great book, with a wonderful memorable character, some heartwarming moments, and some laugh out loud moments as well.
My favotire childhood book.
While those are admittedly very big and real obstacles faced during pubescence that Phyllis Reynolds Naylor treats with utmost respect, there’s more emphasis placed on the everyday embarrassments that afflict Alice as she searches for a female role model in the absence of her mother, who died when Alice was very young.
There are also the quiet, happy embarrassments, like when Mrs. Plotkin, Alice’s teacher, treats Alice with a special kindness even after Alice shows contempt towards Mrs. Plotkin in front of the class.
Personally, I’m embarrassed that I never read The Agony of Alice when I was younger, but I look forward to delving further into the series even as an adult.
I new that this was going to go on forever unless I found someone to set an example for me, and by the time I got the mustard off my shirt, I'd made up my mind: I'd adopt a mother."Obviously this book was going to amuse me and since Naylor is a Newbery Medal winner for Shiloh, I figured it was a sure hit.
One of our 7th graders spent spring break reading all of these books, so it has been on my list for a while.
I laughed out loud as Alice got herself into one embarrassing scrape after another.
This book is a lot shorter than I remember, unsurprisingly.Alice sounds a lot more mature in this than in the prequels, which is as it should be, considering how she's older.
She can be very whiny and bratty and terrible and that side of her makes her so realistic and captivating.I did find a few inconsistencies between this and the prequels, such as Carol's divorce with the sailor and how Alice's said called her by her full name when catching Donald Sheavers playing Tarzan with her.Again, I love how this takes place in Maryland, where I live, so I get references to things like renting a summer cottage at Bethany Beach.Reading the next book ASAP.
Yearning for a female role model, she longs to be in the class of the beautiful Miss Cole.
Matter-of-fact treatment of the latter is likely why the book is frequently challenged; Alice's menarche is treated as embarrassing but normal.
Alice eventually meets family members who provide her with different models for how women can approach life, and she gains new perspectives on Miss Cole and Mrs. Plotkin.
A realistic and often funny look at adolescent anxiety, this is the first book written in Naylor's Alice series, which follows her as she grows up into a young woman.5 out of 5Reviewed by: Tom
Alice is smart and funny, but she has a problem.
Alice decides that she's going to find an adopted mother, and begins looking at all the adult women in her life.
Throughout her sixth grade year, Alice finds that appearances can be deceiving, people all have something good in them to admire, and no matter what you do - and whether or not you have a mom to show you how - you will grow up.
The important thing is to make sure you grow up doing good things.
The first of a series that was on a list of frequently banned books so I took it out of the library to see what all the fuss was about.
Horrors: 6th grade Alice gets her first bra and her first period.Somehow I missed this series as my girls were growing up.
Alice reminds me somewhat of Anastasia, heroine of another good growing up series, who also has a list of what is going well and badly in life.
In spite of the censors, I would recommend this for age 8-12 girls who will understand Alice's agony very well.
I started reading the series in fifth grade & followed it all the way through to my junior year of college when Naylor released Now I'll Tell You Everything. I grew up with Alice & I wish that every girl could. The entire series covers the growing pains of life & sensitive, serious, but age-appropriate issues. I laughed, cried, grieved, and smiled. Long review short: Please introduce your kids to Alice! You won't be disappointed.
I picked this up as a quick weekend read and at first I wondered why it was on my shelves. But it soon became clear it was an above average teen/'rites of passage' fiction.The language is clear and with a good story that doens't lag, the occasionaly skips in the time line helping to keep it on pace.It is sensitively told without any contrived situations or heavy-handed employed to get across the underlying message.I will be passing it on to my teenage daughter.
This is a coming of age book about a girl named Alice. All she needs is guidance and with her mom dead she hopes she gets the perfect teacher, but she doesn't and gets stuck with a horrible teacher instead who looks like she can't help Alice at all. This was a really quick read and I enjoyed reading it because I could totally relate to Alice.
Alice has moved, once again, from Takoma Park to Silver Spring. She meets the kids at school: the redheaded Patrick Long, the golden-haired princess Pamela Jones, and the perfect Elizabeth Price. Alice learns how to deal with all sorts of humiliation, but she takes it in good grace.
This series was a staple of middle school and high school for me. It's just a great series for teens - it's funny but also resonated with everything I was dealing with at the time. It's insane that there are so many now! The last one I read was around book 14.
Love Alice, Elizabeth, Patrick and Lester. This boom is ammmaaaaazing
This book is the first in the series, and I think it really hits all the emotional highlights...tenderness, awkwardness, etc.
She got an idea to adopt Ms. Cole as her mother but Alice was placed in Mrs. Plotkin’s class.
The story gave a lot of moral lesson to young adults who struggle to live in the modern world as Alice.
The story ends as Mrs. Plotkin gives her family ring to Alice as she does not have children of her own to give the ring to.
Alice achieved her goal to adopt someone kind and nice as her mother but Mrs. Plotkin could give moral support to Alice as an outsider because she has her own family to look after.
In the book, "The Agony of Alice." by Phyllis Reynold's Naylor.
Alice Mckinley feels that life is just one big flop.
She wants toget through sixth grade positive.
But she doesn't exactly know how.
Alice thinks that she's growing backwards.
She blames it on thefact that she has no one to look out for her, so basically no role model.
Alice decided that she needs a gorgeous women who does everything right.
Mrs. Cole is the perfect person.
Unfortuneatly the Unfortunately, Alice gets the teacher named Mrs. Ploktin.
Alice goes through many ups and downsin between sixth grade, and she even has a secret amdirer.
I liked this book, and happened to be about 11 when this book came out.
The imagery of school was just like my elementary school years.
This book is about a 6th grade girl and it touches a tiny bit on the first bra, period and kiss.
My fourth grader is not ready for this book because of the kissing.
I can see there will be more kissing in the next book.
Kissing in Jr high, tsk tsk.
I suppose it did happen that way for a handful of people I knew.
It's scary what Jr High kids talk about now days.
I remember reading this series as a kid, but didn’t recall any of the plot. The story holds up really well. The only dated thing that stuck out to me was Alice’s brother having a beer at 18. Overall, this is a very nicely done portrait of a young girl navigating a new school and growing up. Alice finds herself longing for the pretty sixth-grade teacher, but ultimately finds a kinship with her own teacher - less conventionally beautiful but with more substance. Alice also grows into herself, gets to take an adventure, and makes some friends.
