https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23878.Chronicle_of_a_Death_Foretold
'Cuz it's an unbelievable text.I firmly believe that Santiago Nasar is one of literature's greatest Christ-figures.
Many of Garcia's books have Christ-figures, of course, but Santiago is Jesus with a twist.
When he is fingered for taking the virginity of a non-whore, any reader would believe in his guilt.But by the end of the book, it is obvious that Santiago did not commit the crime (Garcia hides the line where this is stated unequivocally, but it is there).
Nobel Laureate Gabriel Garcia Marquez who is best known for his One Hundred Years of Solitude penned a novella A Chronicle of Death Foretold based on real life events that he witnessed.
In this novella, Marquez tells through the eyes of an unnamed narrator the events that lead to the murder of Santiago Nasar.
Meanwhile Bayardo San Ramon and Angela Vicario are to be married.
Even in this short tale, it is obvious to me that Garcia Marquez knows how to weave a story together.
I am fan of Isabel Allende and people tell me that her writing reminds them of Garcia Marquez.
‘’There had never been a death more foretold.’’ Santiago is murdered in the market of a Colombian town. The perpetrators are two brothers. His crime? The supposed defilement of their sister, whose marriage to a young man was broken because she wasn’t a virgin. Márquez does something extraordinary here. He creates one of his finest works, a crime mystery where the question isn’t who or what but why. Why did everything happen in such a way? Why do people have to resort to such actions? Why are we
He creates one of his finest works, a crime mystery where the question isn’t who or what but why.
They condemn Santiago because his origins aren’t the same as their own.
Santiago isn’t painted in favourable colours, his contempt and violence towards women are often mentioned.
Think of the omens described in Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar, in the night before the vile murder took place.Every book by Márquez requires patience, dedication and a close attention to the story in order to fully understand the wealth and magic of his writing.
Márquez is a Latin American Dostoevsky, a writer that should be required reading if we want teenagers to ever become accomplished readers.
Crónica de una muerte anunciada = Chronicle of a Death Foretold, Gabriel García MárquezChronicle of a Death Foretold (Spanish: Crónica de una muerte anunciada) is a novella by Gabriel García Márquez, published in 1981. It tells, in the form of a pseudo-journalistic reconstruction, the story of the murder of Santiago Nasar by the two Vicario brothers.Characters: Santiago Nasar, Ángela Vicario, Bayardo San Román, Pablo and Pedro Vicarioتاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز اول ماه می سال 1994 میلادیعنوان: گزارش
It tells, in the form of a pseudo-journalistic reconstruction, the story of the murder of Santiago Nasar by the two Vicario brothers.Characters: Santiago Nasar, Ángela Vicario, Bayardo San Román, Pablo and Pedro Vicarioتاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز اول ماه می سال 1994 میلادیعنوان: گزارش یک مرگ، مترجم: لیلی گلستان؛ تهران، نشر البرز، 1994، در 119 ص، شابک: 9646952453؛روابط سنتی اهالی امریکای لاتین، مارکز روزنامه نگار بازهم داستان میسراید.
یک برداشت است از یک رخداد یا جنایت، شخصیتها و نوع رخداد را تغییر داده، و روایت کرده، نوع روایت بسیار عجیب است؛ هم پیچیده و هم ساده است.
Say, it's a story of a man who must pay for violating the unwritten code of honour when he is suspected of deflowering Angela Vicario, his best pal's sister, hours before she was to get married to another man.One may describe it as a story of an honour killing.
This objectivity sits at the heart of good writing and this sets Márquez apart from a bevy of other writers who have expended words on a similar theme.There's ambiguity with respect to the victim’s role: Was Santiago Nasar guilty of dishonouring Angela Vicario?
Entre todos lo mataron y solo se murió.Este es un libro en el que no importa el "cómo", sino el "por qué".
Emparentada con "El túnel" de Ernesto Sábato, ambos autores generan el spoiler en las primeras líneas, develando el asesinato.
Sinceramente, no pude dejar de leerlo, de un tirón, hasta el final.
Y es precisamente ese final, de la manera que Gabo lo narra, lo que shockea al lector.
Parece que uno está sintiendo las puñaladas, viendo la sangre, sintiendo el desgarro...Edgar Allan Poe dijo una vez que "Todas las obras de arte deberían empezar por el final".Esta novela es una digna prueba de ello.
ما هذه الروعة.جريمة شرف عادية يكتبها ماركيز بكل جمال وروعة. اُسلوب مثير يجعلك في انتظار الاحداث وكأن الجريمة حدثت قبل سويعات وليست جريمة مرت عليها أعواما عديدة.كل القرية تعلم بأن سنتياغو نصار سيقتل . والمقاتلين يتفاخرون بأنهم سيقتلون بشكل علني. ومع ذلك لم يقم احد بمنع الجريمة او حتى تحذير المقتول او محاولة إقناع القاتلين بالكف عن قتله مع انه من خلال الاحداث كانوا يمتظرون من يقنعهم بعدم قتله.اُسلوب رائع ومثير ومشوق.
Not like that seen in those pathetic slasher movies, where a big breasted peroxide blonde is chased around a mansion by a nutcase bearing a huge blade that only dishes out flesh wounds.Chronicling the murder of one Santiago Nasar in a small unnamed South American village, Márquez dazzles in a fictional world that is as pungently sharp as the knives used to kill, it's a murder everyone in town knew was coming, yet no one wanted.
Chronicle of a Death Foretold is a novella which recounts a fictionalized account inspired by an actual incident of honor-killing in Colombia back in 1951, now immortalized in this 1981 novella.The story is about the series of events leading up to a murder, and its aftermath.
It is written in pseudo-journalistic style in the form of interviewed accounts staged 20 years after the tragedy.Fun fact: The novel led to a 17-year legal battle after a man claimed unlawful use of his life story for the novel.
ما هذه القدره المذهله أعتقد أنِّى مهمـا قرأت لن أقرأ لأحد يكتب مثل ما يكتب ماركيز قصه لم تكن مبهره لكن غندما يكتبها ماركيز فهى كافيه كى يعبث فى جذورها وطرحها بهذا الاسلوب المذهل الذى طالما ادهشنى أحقاً يوجد أفضل من ماركيز ؟ لا أعرف وأحتاج الكثير والكثير لكى اجيب على هذا السؤال
When I was reading this book, I found out some friends had read this book at his/her school age.
This is a good novel.There are thousands correct ways to write a story.
How genius Márquez put the real end of the story in the middle of the story (view spoiler)[at the end of part 4.
I have re-read those a few last paragraphs of part 4, even in the middle of writing this review (hide spoiler)].
It was so beautiful (view spoiler)[romance/relationship/love story where the older Bayardo San Roman came to Angela Vicario, bringing unopened Angela's two thousands letters (hide spoiler)].
جريمة شرف في الجزء الأخر من العالملم أكن أتصور أن الشرف له نفس المفهوم في أمريكا اللاتينية.ماركيز له اسلوب بديع جدا في سرد الأحداث و كانت هنا و كأنك تقرأ قصة بوليسية أو تشاهد فيلم سينيمائي.المشهد الأخير الذي يصور مصرع نصار هو الأروع في الرواية و هو ما رفع تقييمها من ثلاثة إلى أربعة نجوم
عندما يكتب ماركيز لا يسعنا سوى الدهشة لهذا السحر الذي ينبثق من قلم هذا الرجل , هذه الخفة الآخاذة والسرد الممتع والأحداث التي تتشكل في الرواية على شكل لوحة متناسقة تنبعث منها رائحة الأدب اللاتيني بكل سماته وسحره وتأثيرة الواقعي على القاريء..رواية خفيفة ومشوقة , تشبه فيلماً سينمائياً تتشكل أحداثه ببطء وتصل الى النهاية المفتوحة التي لامفر من البحث فيها عن أجابات كثيرة ومتناقضة تكمن في جسد الرواية نفسها..
He repudiates her because she lied about her virginity at the time of the marriage.When the twins Pedro and Pablo Vicario, Angela's brothers, go home, they decide to avenge the family honor by killing Santiago Nasar, the one who, according to their sister, is responsible for his repudiation.Chronicle of a Death Foretold is a story of surprising strength despite its brevity.
What power in the terms used, what suspense felt by the author's stroke of genius: begin with the end, that is, the death of Nasar before explaining to us the facts that led to this disaster.It is through a narrator who seems to investigate a posteriori on the death of Nasar that García Márquez explains the facts to us.
آمن الجميع بحماقة هيتشكوك أحد أهم المخرجين السينمائيين في العالم عندما قرر أن يقتل بطلة فيلمه الجديد بعد عشرين دقيقة و لم يحُل بينه و بين ذلك رفض شركة الإنتاج تمويل فيلمه الشهير " سايكو " الذي حقق نجاحاً عظيماً فيما بعد - إن لم يعدّ أكثر أفلامه نجاحاً -.
سانتياغو نصار المنحدر من أصول عربية يلقى مصرعه بأبشع ما يمكن حيث يتم تقطيعه إرباً بسكاكين خاصة بقتل الخنازير على يد الأخوين فيكاريو - بداعي الشرف - فالأخت التي عادت صبيحة اليوم التالي لزواجها المهيب و الذي كان الزواج الأشهر في القرية لم تكن عذراء.
و ماركيز إذ يتسائل عن القدر و مصير الإنسان و عاقبة أعماله لن يمنحك الفرصة حتى لتطمئن إلى أن سنتياغو نصار هو من هتك عذريتها.
limandan dönmekte olan insanlar, bağrışmalardan telaşlanarak, cinayete tanık olabilmek amacıyla meydandaki yerlerini almaya başlamışlardı  HEPİNİZ ORADAYDINIZ BE!belediye başkanı dahil kitaptaki tüm karakterler oradaydı be!marquez ile tanışmak için harika bir kitap kırmızı pazartesi...bence marquez okumak bir çeşit uyuşturucu, uyarıcı madde kullanmak türünden bir gerçeklik.bunu temel seviyede şöyle anlatabilirim, alkolün seni etkilemeye başladığı an hoşbulduk demek geliyor mu mesela içinden? o
o bilindik teslim oluyorum galiba hissi, nefesteki alkol kokusu, görüşte bulanıklık, algıda boş vermişlik.bir, vaha sanki alkollü sen hali, öyle değil mi?alkol yerine daha az uyarıcı olan kahveyi de düşünebilirsin pekala.marquez de bu gibi bir uyarıcı madde sanki.
harikalar diyarındasın.gerçeklik bükülmeye başlıyor, o bilindik karakterler evlerinden çıkmaya başlıyor, yeni tanıştığın karakterleri dinliyorsun ama daha önce dahil olduğun diyaloglar çağrışım yapıyor, başka tür bir oksijen yakıyorsun, görüşünü peri tozu etkiliyor, algıda gabriel garcia marquezcilik...büyü zaman zaman seni fizik yasaları ile sabit olan evrenine itiyor, düşünüyorsun, tekrar devam ediyor sonra.işleyen bir saat gibi ilerliyor elinde kitap.mükemmel bir deneyimsin sen marquez!kırmızı pazartesi ile ikinci kere giriş yaptım anlatmaya çalıştığım evrene.yine çok etkilendim, yine kitap bittiğinde tadı damağımda kaldı.bir türk okuru olarak (kitapta biraz aşağılanıyoruz da) seviyorum seni ve eserlerini, çok da şey yapma sen yine bize.
Es exactamente lo que dice el título.En cierta manera me ha recordado a "A sangre fría", porque hace una crónica de unos hechos que, en esencia, ocurrieron.
Y lo curioso es que García Márquez imita tan bien la forma de crónica, que a veces parece ser más "no ficción" que la novela de Capote.Hay personas a quienes les pareció aburrido, a mí no.
Al final, García Márquez parece querer decir que ese crimen ocurrió porque el mundo está lleno de gente que "Pasa de follones" (conocidos como "padefos"), de personas que agachan la cabeza, se encogen de hombros y pasan la responsabilidad a cualquiera en vez de asumirla ellos mismos.
قصة موت مُعلن أو بالأدققصة "قتل" مُعلنيُعلن القتلة عن خطتهم للقتليعلم الجميع بها ، ويحاول الجميع منع
_Chronicle of a Death Foretold_oh God, I love Marquez
ما هو انا اللى غلطان اصلا , اذا كان لما قرأت مئة عام من العزلة اول مرة مقدرتش اكملها من الملل وقيمته
muhteşemdi, muhteşem! işleneceği baştan beri bilinen cinayeti nasıl anlatabilirsin diye düşünmüştüm kitaba başlarken. sanırım bundan güzel anlatılamazdı. başı ve sonu bir tutup sürekli o noktadan çıkıp ufak halkalar çizerek o noktaya dönmesiyle çiçek gibi bir kurgu yaptı adeta :) bayıldım. gördüğüm herkese öveceğim, insanları bıktıracağım kitaplardan biri oldu kırmızı pazartesi.
I read this short masterpiece ages ago, but it only recently resurfaced in my mind, like a forgotten dream. It's a tense drama of murder foretold, written in the magical realism style for which Columbian novelist, Marquez, was lionised.I really need to read it again to reacquaint myself with its succulent excellence.(Ditto, Don Quixote, and so many other exquisitely-written novels that are now consigned to the backroom of my cluttered mind).
Frumos!
أوصي بهذه الرواية دائماً كمدخل لعوالم ماركيز، قراءة (مئة عام من العزلة) قد تبدو مرهقة للبعض بكل واقعيتها السحرية وبكل شخصياتها وتداخل الأسماء فيها، هذه الروية أكثر واقعية، تروي قصة حقيقية عن جريمة معلنة كان الجميع يعلم بوقوعها ولكن لا أحد تدخل لإيقافها، هذه قصتنا كبشر في النهاية، نتابع الأحداث من حولنا ونفهم تداعياتها وإلى أين ستقودنا ولكننا لا نفعل شيئاً حتى يفوت الأوان، فكروا فقط بالـ حروب/ العنصرية/ الطائفية/ الأوضاع الاقتصادية/ الجريمة
Edebi yönü kuvvetli kitaplar yazıp aynı anda bu kadar temiz ve anlaşılır olmaktan bahsediyorum.
Santiago Nasar'ın öleceği kitabın daha ilk satırlarından beri belliyken, kitabı öyle etkileyici bir şekilde bitirdi ki..
O kadar ustaca bir yazım şekli ki bu, yazar sizi bildiğini sandığınız bir döngünün içinde, kaleminin ucunda evirip çevirip istediği kıvama getirdiği anda bırakıveriyor kalemi elinden.
Ona hayran olmaktan başka hiçbir şey gelmiyor elinizden.Bir insanın bilindik ölümü gibi etkileyici bir konu ile hikayeye giriş yapıyor yazar.
Onun öldürüleceğinden haberdar olan fakat bunu engellemek için hiçbir şey yapmayan mahalle halkından herbirinin o anda aklından geçenleri ustalıkla satırlarına yansıtarak muhteşem bir toplumsal portre çizip koyuyor önümüze.
"Kırmızı Pazartesi" Marquez'in kendine has dilini/kurgusunu taşıyan, kısa ama vurucu bir roman.
Herkesin işleneceğini bildiği ancak bir müdahalede bulunmadığı bir cinayete giden yolları ayrıntılı bir şekilde aktaran Marquez aslında toplumun sosyo kültürel yapısının, nasıl namus cinayetlerini legalleştirdiğini açıkça ortaya koyuyor.Namus cinayetleri bizim ülkemizde de aynı Kırmızı Pazartesi'de olduğu şekliyle yaşanageldi yıllardır.
İşte kitabı okurken düşündüğüm bir şey varsa bizim çok kırmızı pazartesimiz, salımız, cumamız, perşembemiz olduğu.
Kadın cinayetleri karşısında herkesin sorumluluğu olan bir ülkede yaşadığımızı düşünüyorum.
Bu roman, benim bu sorgulamalarıma daha bütüncül ve üçüncü bir göz olarak bakmamı sağladı.
İnsanın kendine hatırlatmalar yapması gereken hassas bir konu bu.
Un protagonista sin nombre nos cuenta el asesinato de Santiago Nasar a modo de crónica, veinte años después de los hechos.Con su prosa y estilo magistral, Marquez va desglosando momento a momento todo lo sucedido ese fatídico lunes, enganchando al lector pese a que se sabe todo lo que sucedió y sucederá, hace uso y desuso del tiempo a su gusto y pone al pueblo entero de protagonista.Por momentos me generó angustia, tristeza, un poco de asco, pero sobre todo mucha indignación. Es una lectura corta pero poderosa.
I can't believe I had not written a review for this book. Since I'm constantly recommending it to people, I should have written a review at some point... but I didn't. Now is the time when I try to do it justice with this, as it is one of my fave books.Chronicle of a Death Foretold... that's exactly what this book is about: A death foretold. You may be asking yourselves, wtf is that? Well, that was pretty much my reaction in 2013 when I read this for the first time.Santiago Nasar is found dead.
Now is the time when I try to do it justice with this, as it is one of my fave books.Chronicle of a Death Foretold...
that's exactly what this book is about: A death foretold.
Well, that was pretty much my reaction in 2013 when I read this for the first time.Santiago Nasar is found dead.
Yep, definitely a joke.Turns out they were speaking seriously.And that's why it is a chronicle of a death foretold.The story is narrated through interviews to people who were related to Santiago in some way - be it directly or indirectly.
and I have plans of reading another one of his books.
usually when i read garcia marquez i love it at first but then it just keeps circling and circling and eventually my brain shuts down and i pass out, but this time it just kept building and building and by the time i hit the end i thought i was going to explode.
also it was nice because i always read about marquez talking about how much he loves kafka but then i never see it in his books; this time around it was all right there, it all made sense and yet was its own thing.
It is only at the very end of the book that the author exposes one to the more visceral horror of the events, and here the journalistic, almost dispassionate narrative style serves to very effectively portray the horror inherent in this death that was so thoroughly foretold.The material has been so cleverly arranged that the narration picks up in emotional impact as the "investigation" develops, and the story finishes off with a visceral climax that leaves you feeling as if you had been punched in the solar plexus.It is a brilliant look at a set of events that was precipitated not only by acts, but by a certain mindset, - a single sexual act (the deflowering of Angela Vicario) ended up affecting an entire town, and the effects could still be felt twenty seven years later.At the start of his investigation the author sets out to seek answers as to the "why" the death happened.
