https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28965131-behind-her-eyes
IMO there were really multiple twists that connect into one; the how/why/who was just as important separately as they were in one entity.I read quite a few early reviews on this book, and while some chose to include elements that I view as spoiler material, I almost wish I had seen them prior to reading this book.
The entire ending and twist are dependent on this aspect being kept secret, so you can see the dilemma I’m facing.
Whether you are drawn toward the ending or throw your book across the room, this is a story you must read if you call yourself a fan of any type of thriller.
A lot of readers are going to feel let down by this book.
I'll try to explain without giving away any spoilers, but I will be talking about things revealed in the first few chapters.Firstly, the book gives up too much too soon.
Through Adele and Louise's alternating points of view, we know that Adele is mentally ill and Louise is incredibly naive.Comparisons to Gone Girl are pretty much guaranteed, though undeserved.
What would Gone Girl have been if Amy Dunne had given up all her secrets in the first couple of chapters?
She WENT for it.It’s been a while since I’ve been legitimately shocked as a reader, and I don’t care how much this ending can be reduced down to utter nonsense, I’m embracing the hell out of it and you can’t stop me.
It’s as though this story unveils itself from every angle possible, and yet still it goes and throws me off my feet.
I can’t tell you details of the plot because I am your friend and I won’t ruin it for you.
But I can tell you this: Soften your critical eye (if possible) when going into this one, so you can just enjoy the journey.
2.5 starsBehind Her Eyes is very readable; I couldn’t put it down and I was constantly trying to figure out what was going to happen.
However, once all was finally revealed, I came to the conclusion that I did not like this book.
It’s nearly impossible to write a summary of the events of this book without giving too much away, so I am just going to keep it as this: A man, his wife, and his secretary get caught up in a tangled web.
I know that I am in the minority with my feelings about this one.
Haha fuck yes
Okay, so I checked my Overdrive this morning and it said this book was going back in 4 hours so I thought I would try it right quick.
Well, isn't this all happy day news for Louise.
Adele is David's wife and her and Louise become friends.
Why is Adele so freaking terrified of David?
That's all I'm going to say because this book is one you need to read.
I started to become aware what was going on toward the end of the book and thought it was pretty cool.
I'm still blown out into space over this book!
I have a hard time suspending disbelief at the best of times in books and therefore stay away from novels where fantasy or magic realism play a role but I do like a good well written Psychological thriller and have read a couple this year that I really enjoyed.
I know I am in the minority on this one and so many readers have loved it but this is just my reaction to the book.I listened to this one on audio and the narration was excellent.An enjoyable read just not one for my favourites list.
I could have overlooked the pedestrian prose, the utterly unlikeable (and unconvincing) characters and the plodding plot (done much better by other writers a billion times before) because I was looking forward to the twist of the year.To give an indication of just quite how bad it actually is - an insult to every reader's intelligence - I'll give you a few examples of how it could work in other books:Pride and Prejudice: Mr Darcy is actually really haughty and stand-offish because HE'S A ROBOTTo Kill a Mocking Bird: Atticus Finch is a really great lawyer because HE'S TIME-TRAVELLED FROM THE FUTUREJane Eyre: Mr Rochester is moody and troubled because HE'S A SHAPE-SHIFTING WEREWOLFI'm sure you get my point.
This book is ridiculous and I suppose I should have known better, given that I'm currently living in a surreal dream-world.
The three main characters of Louise, David and Adele are unlikeable.
She runs into his wife, Adele, and a cloying, claustrophobic, but close and secretive relationship develops between them.
Despite the guilt she feels, she gets drawn to and more closely entwined with Adele.
A sinister and toxic image of Adele and David's marriage emerges.
Louise has night terrors which Adele wants to help her with.
The character of David feels underdeveloped, and I did not have sufficient reasons to believe in his and Louise's relationship.
Umm, seriously? What did I just read?Sarah Pinborough's new book,  Behind Her Eyes  is one crazy book, one that at different times had me totally hooked, rolling my eyes, predicting (incorrectly) how the plot would be tied together, and then, ultimately, re-reading the last few chapters a few times to make sure what I thought happened actually did.So, let's see how to review this. "Secrets, secrets, secrets. People are filled to the brim with them if you look closely."Louise is a single mothe
is one crazy book, one that at different times had me totally hooked, rolling my eyes, predicting (incorrectly) how the plot would be tied together, and then, ultimately, re-reading the last few chapters a few times to make sure what I thought happened actually did.So, let's see how to review this.
One day, while walking near her office, she (literally) runs into Adele, a beautiful, lonely woman clearly in need of a friend.
Adele starts to encourage Louise on ways to improve herself—cut back on the wine, quit smoking, join a gym.When David's interest in Louise starts to intensify, she doesn't know what to do.
But I’d read enough reviews to know there was an off-the-charts spin at the end.
Working as a secretary for Adele’s husband, David.When the paths of these three characters cross into a distorted love triangle, you just know that no one’s going to come out of this unscathed!
But which one?Oh this cannot end well!I think this is one of those books that it will either work for you and will absolutely love it.
Or you will walk away saying “what did I just read!” Personally...It totally exceeded my expectations and I loved it!
After reading so many thrillers, I wanted something original!
When I say she's pulled a blinder with the conclusion of this book I'm not exaggerating.Louise is a single mum on a rare night out when she meets a man in a bar.
Well Louise does become involved but oh boy she sure is going to regret it!
Just try to keep an open mind.I've read more than my fair share of psychological thrillers but I have NEVER come across such a complex and clever ending.
I kept trying to pre-guess where this story was going but I had no chance - what a twist, I could never have created such a corker of a finish.
That is what my thoughts were exactly after reading!BEHIND HER EYES by SARAH PINBOROUGH was an intriguing, gripping, exciting, and compulsive psychological thriller that grabbed my attention from the very first chapter and had me on the edge of my seat in anticipation for that ever so exciting and unforgettable ending that everyone seems to be talking about.
Except after finishing reading this book I was a little disappointed about that ending.
SARAH PINBOROUGH does deliver an extremely gripping story here that was well-written and had me totally engaged in the slow-building suspenseful story-line with a few good twists that had me questioning and guessing what was actually happening until I actually figured it all out.
"Love dies hard, you know?"And that eye, fully dilated and widely on alert, says it all.Now, let me just say that this one is not gonna be on everyone's radar.
You really wouldn't want to go wading into that pool of murky water on your own.Louise, a single mom and a part-time employed secretary, dips her toes into that pond one night.
David and Louise can't get enough of one another and so it begins......And in walks Adele, David's beautiful wife.
And Adele seems to know nothing about these two enamored fish.
Holy shit.You're either going to love this thriller with a hint of supernatural or not at all. That ending though!
Just brilliant!
Just brilliant!
This novel!
Just wow!
Just wow!
If you like unpredictable thrillers than you should check out "Behind Her Eyes"!I listened to the audio version.
The audio is awesome.
The last 10 minutes turned this book from a 4 Star to a 4.5 Star for me!
What a freaking ending!
I was worried that I would figure out the ending because I read a bunch of reviews.
I love crazy endings!
Great audio!
Would make a great first listen.
Wonderful narrators.Highly recommended to people who can suspend disbelief and like thrillers.That's all I'm going to say.
Stop reading reviews and check it out!
Perhaps "Behind Her Eyes" is a solid four and 1/2 stars, however the round up is necessary so as not to round down, in order to not give a false impression that this book is a fantastic read.
Ms. Pinborough is a fun, sly and smart author when all is said and done.So why quibble over that half a star ?
My fear was what I call "The Gone Girl" syndrome, where you have this apprehension that the author is just flat out messing with the reader.However Ms..
She has inserted enough clues into her narrative to give the reader the clues necessary not to feal swindled by unfolding events.
The book gets off to a sinister start because Adele and David are obviously having a hard time in their marriage.
Louise suffers from night terrors and Adele helps her find a way to control them as their friendship continues to develop, despite the fact that Louise and David are carrying on together.
If you have read any other reviews of this book, you will have no doubt heard about the surprise, ‘what just happened’ ending.
Still, I have to give the author kudos for pulling it off without a hitch, and I do ‘get’ why some people were impressed by it and why they have been raving about this book.
which, for the record, was much longer than it should have taken - that nerd was on fire with detail.i’ve since read the book and seen the show and i’m safe as safe can be from that particular spoiler-landmine, but the world is as full of twist endings as it is incautious booknerds, and with Behind Her Eyes, pretty much the only thing i knew about it was that it was ALL ABOUT THE TWIST, and OMG, and i approached all reviews of it gingerly, not wanting to tempt fate or the spoiler monster.i succeeded, but i wasn’t, of course, able to escape the knowledge that there was a twist, which comes with its own set of reader-distractions - finding myself subconsciously squinting for clues and developing theories while reading, which i 100% did not want to do, but every time i had to put the book down for any reason, my mind would slink into investigative/analytical mode and try to work out the twist without my consent.
You are led as a reader to think this book is traveling the byways of memories, dreams, affairs and murders.
The pages fly fast and I was so involved in this story - until the abrupt end.
The publishers strongly encouraged all the ARC readers to discuss the book with the hypey #WTFthatending.
Not gonna lie, the ending of the story was like a sucker punch to the gut and I actually got angry.
It is disappointing to me that a writer of Sarah Pinborough's caliber would end such a great story with a cheap plot device.
I know you love the internet. I love the internet too. BUT FOR THE LOVE OF HELLO KITTY DON'T GET SPOILED IF YOU ARE PLANNING TO READ THIS BOOK! You know some turd is going to do it...so stay far away from the reviews.I'm going to try to not spoil nothing but I'll gif the heck out of the review and annoy half of Goodreads anyways.These three main characters are not your friend. At least I hope the heck not. They are some selfish, mean ass characters. Sorry, Janis..these people are both types.Then
I know you love the internet.
I love the internet too.
You know some turd is going to do it...so stay far away from the reviews.I'm going to try to not spoil nothing but I'll gif the heck out of the review and annoy half of Goodreads anyways.These three main characters are not your friend.
And that ending.
That was one of the best endings I can remember in awhile.
I almost gave this sucker five stars..but at times it does get overly talky and it has some plot holes bigger than my butt.
4.5 stars!
On a night out, she meets a gentleman in a bar, they share drinks, a connection, and a kiss.
The following Monday, Louise is nervous about meeting her new boss.
Her new boss is the mysterious man from the bar!A few days later after dropping her son off at school, she makes a new friend named Adele.
Louise senses Adele is lonely and seeking friendship having just recently moved to town.
It take Louise a while to figure out why Adele seems so familiar.
She makes the connection after seeing her in a photo on David’s desk.Louise and Adele become close friends having much in common.
Oh dear, well........ let me just say this is very inventive, very imaginative, but just couldn't go there. A little too much for me, too twisty, too much back and forth. Who is telling the truth? Nothing ever certain, even if you think you know. Dislikable characters to boot, well except for little Adam, who is actually a minor character. Loved her last book, but this one, can't say I enjoyed. Though I know many loved it and many more will. ARC from Netgalley.
I was so convinced I had this one figured out. I was wrong.
Louise, a single mother, is out one night having a drink – there she meets a man (David), whom she is immediately drawn to.
Thereafter, things become a little strange (RIGHT?!) and Louise gets drawn deeper and deeper into David and Adele’s crazy as heck marriage.
As you might be able to tell, this is one crazy, compelling and totally compulsive read.
At the end, my eyes flew open, I re-read the last few pages several times and thought I might have gone nuts, but alas, I’m only a little crazy (I think).
I think Louise and my feelings on Louise can be summed up by this simple question Dave asks her "Why, Why would you do that Louise?" The entire novel was just me being baffled by the ridiculousness of Louise's behaviour, and frankly irritated by her childish manner.
Every time she poked her nose into someone's business, or created unnecessary drama with her duplicitous behaviour, or just straight out didn't think about her child's safety I had to re-read the beginning chapter because I couldn't believe the author said this woman was 34 years old.
I read A LOT and when a book can pull off a Mind Fuck like that - I love it!!!!
First off, this book grabbed me from page one and did not let go and by then end I was excited - not sure if this is correct.
David, who seems so warm and loving to Louise, is controlling and hostile to Adele.
What will happen when the "truth" comes out?I thought I knew what was happening and how the book was going to end.
I LOVED this book.
Books like this one are why I love reading so MUCH!
I'm torn up about this book...the beginning was good, the middle dragged and that ENDING??!!? Is it just me or should some of the genres associated with this book include fantasy or perhaps paranormal??? Somebody tell me what I just read!!! Lol.
I don't even know what just happened. #wtfthatending is right. All I'm gonna say is suspend your disbelief and go along for the ride. That is hard for me to do too, just do it and you will be pleasantly surprised. That is all.
Yet, she also quickly notices something is quite odd in Adele and David's marriage.There is so much I want to say about this book, but I won't because too much information would just spoil it, even though that ending is so unpredictable!There is an element of the supernatural in this story, which can really backfire, but in this case, it reminded me of Rosamund Lupton's, Afterwards, where it worked perfectly to built the eerie atmosphere and deliver a shocking ending.
