https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18498569-the-miniaturist
On the other hand, I found the characters very unbelievable.
In spite of the fact that much has been said re the author's research into the time period, I often found myself thinking that Nella's moral philosophy and knowledge of the world - i.e.when she compares Marin's mood to an unexploded bomb - seemed far too modern.
The end of the book left we wondering what the point was, what had been achieved, both by the characters and by my spending my time reading it.But kudos must go to the writer for being a good story teller.
4.5 really really beautiful. I was going to give it 4 stars but then I reread the first chapter after I finished AND IT WAS SO GOOD IN CONTEXT.
she is left in her new home with her husband's unapproachably cold and enigmatic sister marin, and the household help, otto and cornelia.
she begins to see the ugliness of the city under all its gilded ostentation.johannes arrives home one day with a present for nella - a cabinet house, which is an exact replica of their own house, miniaturized and unfurnished.
Yes, I will decorate my house, Marin, Nella thinks - with all the things that you detest.
secrets upon secrets upon secrets are discovered, as nella begin to learn how to navigate her new life and come into her own.
”Behold,as the stars of heaven for multitude….How can I myself alone bear your cumbrance,and your burden, and your strife?”Deuteronomy 1:10-12 The Miniature Petronella OortmanPetronella Oortman is barely eighteen years old in 1686 when she marries a rich merchant named Johannes Brandt and moves to his house in Amsterdam. It is unnerving to move so far away from her relatives and all the people she has known her entire life, but it is also exciting to finally escape the boredom of the country and
The Miniature Petronella OortmanPetronella Oortman is barely eighteen years old in 1686 when she marries a rich merchant named Johannes Brandt and moves to his house in Amsterdam.
Her husband’s brown face and his too-long hair, bleached and toughened by sun and wind, trigger an awkward longing--the desire not necessarily for him, but to know how it will feel when they finally lie together.”He travels the world in an age where most people may never leave the city they were born in or explore further than a few miles from home.
A lot in the book is all historically true in terms of life in the city… - from the Richard Lee interviewNella’s search and her coming of age occur in a difficult time and place.
The Amsterdam of the late 17th century, the Dutch Golden Age, is a world financial and military capital, a harsh, unforgiving place, where human failing and difference is not be tolerated, where neighbors are encouraged to spy and report on neighbors, (yes, very much like your office) and where it is always a contest whether the worship of gold or god will hold sway in any given circumstance.
This book was very annoying.
I even went back and read the cryptic first chapter upon finishing the thing think maybe that would help me to somewhat "get it" Nope.
Way too many boring scenes and conversations about sugar.
Didn't get the point (and I like to think that I am not totally stupid) and the characters were not believable.
Why Nella loves her husband, why her sister in law is the way she is, why her husband's lover turns on him...nothing was convincing.
And the whole miniaturist being some supernatural prophet observing it all...didn't work for me.
''But words are water in Amsterdam, they flood your ears and set the rot'' When you visit the Rijksmuseum, one of the exhibits that is certain to attract your attention, is the beautiful dollhouse of Petronella Oortman, a creation of exquisite beauty. When I visited Amsterdam a few years ago, the book hadn't been published yet. Now, Jessie Burton's novel has come to add another thread in the glorious veil of mystery that surrounds this marvellous city.We find ourselves during the 17th century i
And as the curtains of the dollhouse are drawn each time she wants to hide a new figurine from view, so does her household hold its own secrets.
If you seek a book of haunting beauty, with outstanding characters, written in beautiful language that makes you feel as if you're standing next to the Amstel river, in the poetically beautiful city of Amsterdam, or if you just want an excellent example of Historical Fiction, you need to read The Miniaturist as soon as possible.Do I think it worths the hype?
Upon her arrival, Johannes presents Nella with a strange but oddly enticing bridal gift - a cabinet filled with rooms that are an exact replica of the Brandt household.
And Nella herself is a good character, very developed and sympathetic (although probably a bit too independent and resourceful to be totally realistic to the time period).
Other reviewers have also cited the lack of historical accuracy in places, and while I wouldn't know enough about that add an intelligent opinion, I can see where it might have occurred.
I tried to read this around six months ago and couldn’t get past the first page.
However, once you reach the end of the book and go back and read it, it makes complete sense and the writing style,does in fact, add to its meaning.
Thus, Nella wants to run back home but, she can’t because if she did she would never discover why the miniaturist is sending her so many miniatures; they begin to haunt her life in disturbing ways, so she stays to find out why.
Why is The Miniaturist sending her these things?This is the question that kept me reading.
Σε αυτή τη χρονική περιοδο όπου στην πρωτεύουσα της Ολλανδίας οι έμποροι ειναι πλούσιοι και ισχυροί και φτωχοί οι "καλύτερα σιτιζόμενοι φτωχοί του πλανήτη",υπάρχουν στοιχεία ανθρώπινης υπόστασης που πληρούνται στο μυθιστόρημα με "λίγο απο ολα".
Αυτό ειναι η βάση της ιστορίας μας και απο εκεί και μετά έπονται, λίγες αλλα ισχυρές προκαταλήψεις,λίγη κοινωνική καταπίεση εις βάρος των γυναικών που καταλήγουν σε αλληλεγγύη και ψήγματα φεμινισμού,λίγη ρατσιστική αντίληψη αλλα μάλλον αποδεκτή, λίγη τρομοκρατία απο την μεριά του κλήρου που όμως εύκολα εξαγοράζεται, λίγος απαγορευμένος έρωτας αλλα με ελπιδοφόρους καρπούς και αρκετά καταπιεσμένα ένστικτα ανθρώπινης φύσης που οδηγούνται στο θάνατο αλλα αναγνωρίζονται οι καλές τους πράξεις προς το κοινωνικό σύνολο.
Όσο για το περιβόητο κουκλόσπιτο κι αυτό πολύ λίγο μπροστά στην παραδοξότητα που το περιβάλλει.
Για εμένα αυτό το λίγο ήταν πολύ για με απογοητεύσει.
Unfortunately, the story was plain nonsensical and filled with tedious characters who were obsessed with sugar.-I couldn't stand Nella, she was an irritating, passive, embarrassing and insipid main character.
I didn't care about their secrets or their evasiveness, the only 'character' I wanted to know about was the miniaturist, but nothing significant was ever revealed about her.
The fact there wasn't even the slightest explanation about her made the intriguing premise totally nonsensical.-Who was the miniaturist?
How did she know what to send Nella and the other women?
Sadly, the ending revealed nothing, if anything it just made things more confusing.
Enjoyed this book, really entertaining story of 17th century Amsterdam and the adventures of Petronella, newly wed young wife of a rich merchant living at the 'Herengracht' in Amsterdam.
I love the descriptions of the old Amsterdam, I lived there myself for a number of years, when I return to the city (every once in a while), always love the atmosphere of Amsterdam, and I realize I need to read more historic novels on the rich history of The Netherlands.
I recently went to see the movie 'Michiel de Ruyter', the famous admiral at sea of the Holland forces, who lived in the same 17th century as this book.
It’s an intriguing concept, but it’s not really at the core of the story Burton is telling; it’s a little odd to me that the book is named for an elusive character who barely shows up in the novel.The Miniaturist is of the genre of books that takes on social issues -- feminism, race issues, homosexuality – and examines them in a historical setting.
Like Emma Healey's Elizabeth is Missing, which I also read and reviewed recently, The Miniaturist first started gathering buzz at the London Book Fair over a year ago.
But what about the actual story itself?Set in the late 17th century, this is the tale of Nella Brandt, née Oortman, who at the age of 18 is married off to a rich businessman and arrives in Amsterdam, where she is to live with her new husband - a stranger to her.
In some ways it’s two different novels: there’s the basic storyline with its adult themes - a young girl marries into a family of Dutch traders and finds herself in a house with many dark secrets and then grafted somewhat heavy-handedly on top is the fairy story of the miniaturist supplying a constant feast of implausible hollow mystery the nature of which is never addressed.
You could take out the entire character of the miniaturist and her sorcery from this novel without it altering the novel’s basic plot at all.
3.5 stars Quite lovely in parts, but I found this strangely lacking in emotional complexity. It also bears the weight of the legacy of many other stories before it that touch on similar plot elements or themes, so that two of the three most central mysteries don't come as surprises at all. And the third? The third is left unexplained. A bit more of a review to come.
This feels so unpolished, almost like a first draft, it lacks substance.17th century Holland is ripe with historical detail and features but Burton has not used this to her advantage.
I haven't read any Historical Fiction based in Holland and was looking forward to learning something interesting: there was none provided.At very best, this scrapes into a three star category, but overall it’s a very average read.
But I will say that when reading Historical Fiction, I like lots more background and detail and I daresay most HistFict readers do.Is this just an okay books being hyped up by publicists?
It is to be furnished by an elusive miniaturist, whose tiny creations mirror their real-life counterparts in unexpected ways.Nella is at first mystified by the closed world of the Brandt household, but as she uncovers its secrets she realizes the escalating dangers that await them all.
Nella is presented with a stunning replica home of the house she now lives in and begins communication after engaging with "The Miniaturist" who has artful and skillful hands in making tiny replica pieces of furniture and people, animals even.
We have Marin, Johannes sister who is a complex woman, she seems to rule the house and has not taken warmly to Nella being in the home initially, making things tense and difficult.
What a fantastic and beautifully written debut novel from Jessie Burton.
The Miniaturist is about young Nella who lives in the small town of Assendelft and is married off to a much older man named Johannes Brandt who is from Amsterdam in 1686 during it's Golden Age. What Nella endures in just a few months is crazy and very sad.
Nella goes and lives with Johannes, his sister Marin, and the rest of his dysfunctional household.
It was a compulsive and fantastic read and I loved it!
The book totally lived up to it's hype!

As a strange wedding present, her husband buys the woman a mock up of her household.Against her wishes but wanting to please her husband, Nella hires a miniaturist to build furniture for the gift.
It seems that the miniaturist knows things about her life that Nella doesn't.This is a story about secrets, trust and unexpected magic.What killed this story for me was the pacing.
I felt like Jessie Burton didn't answer most of the questions she raised in the story.And, I found the ending to be completely unsatisfying.I enjoyed learning about 17th century Amsterdam.
3.5 stars.Set in Amsterdam in the late 17th century the Miniaturist is an interesting story.
When her husband presents her with a replica cabinet house Nella finds that she is living her life throughout the miniatures within the cabinet.This is an intriguing story which I found very well written and quite dark.
I am not sure I understood all the happenings within the novel but perhaps that was just me.An interesting and enjoyable read but not one for my favourite list.
However, what Burton truly excelled in was bringing you into a time and place.
It's eerie, a feeling of something looming, the unknown, the coldness all bring you into this story.
This book isn't for everyone.
Not once will you crack a smile or laugh a little, it would be a betrayal to the place and characters if you do.
The plot is nothing the same but the tone and atmospheric feeling was similar to Burial Rites, Jamaica Inn and The Scarlet Letter.Update:9/9/18 first episode on pbs....a reread may be in order.
Lots of details to this book.
Now available on the WondrousBooks blog. 1. Cover love!2. IS THIS HOW IT REALLY ENDED?Let me back up here. I stumbled upon this book and I thought the concept was interesting, even though I'm not a fan of historical books. I recently got a hold of it and I was in a hurry to read it. Summary: Nella is a girl of almost 18 years whose father dies and she is forced to marry a rich merchant, Johannes Brandt, from Amsterdam and leave her village. Upon arrival, however, she realizes that her new husba
Soon after, however, her life and the lives of the entire Brandt family are turned upside down and now Nella has to learn to stand up for herself and protect the people that she loves.CharactersNella is at first portrayed as very shy and obedient, but in a way I found endearing as much as it was sad.
It's called The Miniaturist, and yet one, the miniaturist is barely there, two, nothing is said about her, she is yet another flat character, three, how exactly can one explain her near supernatural ability to "predict" things with her figurines?
Was the miniaturist supposed to be the thing that made Nella grow up?
Beautiful and well written, but the plot has some major issues.This book’s greatest strength are the  multi-dimensional, vivid, believable characters , who may not always be likeable, but are realistic and make a strong impression. Let’s start with them:Nella:  An 18-year-old girl from the countryside, coming to Amsterdam to live with her new husband, a much older wealthy merchant.  She starts out as believably spoilt and naive.  She dislikes Marin at first even though it’s clear there is so muc
(hide spoiler)]Otto:  We don’t see much of what’s going on inside his head, but he still shows us his own view of the world, his values, and what makes him happy and scared.Cornelia:  Opinionated, brave, proactive, sensitive, direct, compassionate, loyal – a great person and a great character!The plot was predictable, but that didn’t bother me since this isn’t the point of the book.
I went back and re-read it when I was halfway through the book, and then it made sense to me, and (view spoiler)[it became painfully clear that Marin is the dead (hide spoiler)], but is the point of a prologue to be read in the middle of the book?Some things don’t make much sense, such as (view spoiler)[Nella thinking she can pass Marin’s baby as her own.
It was everything I was hoping for, an intriguing mix of mystery, love, secrets, betrayal, identity and revenge, all set against the backdrop of 17th century Amsterdam.The story centres upon eighteen year old Nella Oortman who arrives in Amsterdam from the country to take up residence in the home of the wealthy Brandt family.
Nella was recently married to the head of the family, a VOC merchant by the name of Johannes, and is somewhat apprehensive about her new life in the city.
Her new husband is distant, his sister unfriendly and their servants do not act in the way in which Nella expected them to.

A thoroughly brilliant book, one of the best I've read in a long while - I loved the characters, the themes, the setting, the twists and turns of the plot, and the writing was just superb.
“The Miniaturist” by Jessie Burton really took me by surprise.
This historical fiction novel really pulled me in and left me guessing, with its short chapters and strong, developed characters, this novel was just as addicting as it was delightful.
But the miniaturist she hires to construct the houses’ tiny pieces seems to know the secrets of Nella’s household- secrets that even she, Nella, is just discovering.
“The Miniaturist” was written creatively and passionately, making it easy to read this novel in its entirety (easily in one sitting).
Definitely one of the best historical fiction novels I have read this year, if not ever.
With her debut novel, Burton follows in the footsteps of Sarah Waters and Tracy Chevalier, filling her seventeenth-century Amsterdam canvas with rich period detail and a suspenseful plot.
The Miniaturist is flawlessly researched; like a Vermeer painting, it is rich in detail but subtle in construction.However, the story does rather tip over into melodrama, with a trial and an unexpected pregnancy taking up much of the second half.
The magical realist element, so significant to start with, is never fully explored, such that the miniaturist herself – ostensibly the most important presence, given the title – remains a shadowy figure.Not a perfect novel, but it speaks of great talent and potential.(See my full review at For Books’ Sake.)
