https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10105.The_Last_Wife_of_Henry_VIII
The lack of getting even these basic facts straight really bothered me in the beginning of the book.
However, trying to keep in mind that it is simply a work of fiction helped me read through it for the most part.
The truth could have been stranger, and more entertaining than fiction.
I would have given it 4 stars (and I think that is being very generous) IF the author had kept at least the outline of the historical facts correct.
So, minus one star for lack of facts and minus a star for lack of the "9 Day Queen"
Very, very bland. Somehow Erickson made the Tudors boring, which I didn't think was possible.
Although like all of her works, she took many historical liberties to enrich the story; it worked.
Yes, some of the timelines and facts are a bit off and the readers whom read history book on the Tudor times will notice these instantly but hey, so did "The Tudors" on TV and you still watched that!
In fact, this books reads sort of like an over-dramatic episode of The Tudors focusing on Cathering Parr and her obsessive love with Thomas Seymour (another dirtbag who got the ladies.
Interesting, vivid, and entertaining.
A delicious bite of historical entertainment.
È stato molto interessante leggere la storia, anche se molto romanzata, dell'ultima moglie del re Enrico VIII (in pratica quello che cambiava le mogli come se fossero calzini 🙈) , proprio perché non molto nota e studiata. Solo la parte finale del libro non mi è piaciuta..tanto furba a gabbare il vecchio re, ma completamente inutile e senza flemma con il suo amato Tom, che la infinocchia da dritto e da rovescio! E poi la sua morte è proprio brutta
I found myself tutting out loud whenever I came across a historical inaccuracy (which was depressingly often) and I actually threw the book across the room when I read that Catherine was sleeping with Thomas Seymour whilst married to the King.
Why didn't you say?As for the whole Anne Bourchier scandal, Katherine's brother didn't just shrug it off like it was no biggie, he wanted her executed for her adultery, which was the punishment in those days.
It was actually through her father, who was descended from John of Gaunt, the son of Edward III.This book was awful, from the characters to the appalling historical inaccuracies.
To be honest, it was just OK.
4 of 5 stars here on Goodreads, and that is being very generous.
On the positive side, it was interesting to hear the "voice" of the Tudor wife who survived.She seems to get much less attention than, say, Anne Boleyn or Catherine of Aragon, and her story is a prime example of how an intelligent woman survives in a society where she has no power over her own life.The biggest negative for me, however, was the fact that I just don't like the author's writing style.With such a fascinating plot already written in history, it's a pity the story wasn't told with more skill.Just my two yen...worth slightly less than two cents by today's exchange rate!
She also wrote an excellent accounting of the life of Marie Antoinette; "To The Scaffold".Now, she's turned to historical fiction and, although the work was relatively engaging and I made my way through it quickly, it simply was not as enjoyable to me as her other books.But, I got a bit tired of the bodice-busting writing style; I almost felt like I was reading Barbara Cartland.I know a lot about Catherine Parr (the last wife of Henry VIII) and her story is somewhat sad and tragic, even the non-fictionalized version.
Her life intersects with Henry's in various ways like this through the years.
She loves, marries, mourns, and just generally lives her life until Henry beheads wife number five, Catherine Howard.
It isn't long before Henry's avaricious gaze falls on her as wife number six.I think I was expecting something a little meatier.
This story of Catherine Parr's life felt rushed through her early years.
This mostly felt like an overview of her life.
It felt a little simplified and in parts it felt a little cheesy, like the author was trying too hard.
I loved this book so much but when I got to the end of the book .
I will be reading more books by this author in the future .
I would love to read more books about her because she was able to live and be queen of England while being married to king henry the 8th .
She was and still is wonderful woman that more people she know about her and her life .
This is the best book I have readed so far this year by far .
Catherine Parr was the 6th and last wive of Henry VIII and the wife I knew least off, hence my interest in reading this book.The overall story is told well and keeps you involved, however, the many historical errors made it a frustrating read at times.Not sure I will actively hunt other books by this author.
I do not wish to be venomous, so I will say that this book is...
It is fanciful like a romance novel (oops, for me to say that is venomous).
Next time I take a work of "historical fiction" from a shelf, I will first check for a bibliography.
If it has none, it goes back on the shelf.
Catherine Parr, the feisty heroine herself, was blithely boinking Thomas Seymour all during her marriage to the king, even though Anne Boleyn and Catherine Howard had been executed for alleged adultery?
And where, may I ask, was Anne Askew?
Full review at http://books-n-music.blogspot.com/201....
. I believe I am the only hosting blogger who truly enjoyed this one.
I felt as if I truly learned what it might be like to live as a woman/wife in 16th Century Tudor England, and that's what I always want in a historical fiction novel!
Though if you check our reviews some of the other bloggers felt this was not historically accurate.
lol) I felt Erickson put me right their in Tudor England, and that is what I expect historical fiction to do, above all else!
Holy crap, thus far I am completely unimpressed with this book.
My first and actually, only beef with it is that it is historically inaccurate.
It portrays Catharine as a teenage girl who marries a young man after she begs the king to intercede and prevent her family from marrying her to the young man's grandfather.
Um, that is TOTAL POPPYCOCK.
In real life, Parr's first husband was, in fact, a very elderly man, the grandfather that she does not marry in the book.
Yeah, she was 17 and had to marry a grandpa.
Why make something SO inaccurate?!?
This year I read a Rose Tremain book, about the Lutenist of the King of Denmark.
The brother of an earlier King of Denmark is referred to a couple of times in this book and I really enjoy it when I can join the dots in different books.
Despite enjoying the genre and the period, the only Tudor books I've read have been Hilary Mantel's Wolf Hall and Bring up the Bodies.
However, I enjoyed reading this book, especially as it fills in the story where Bring up the Bodies leaves off.
Ovviamente sappiamo tutti che razza di personaggio fosse questo monarca, che nella sua vita non ha fatto altro che cambiare moglie a ripetizione, nutrendo sempre la speranza di poter avere un figlio maschio che gli succedesse al trono.Qui la storia viene narrata dal punto di vista di Catherine Parr, appunto l'ultima moglie di Enrico.
La lettura mi ha dato modo di riflettere ancora una volta su quanto fossero marci gli ambienti di corte (un po' come la politica di oggi) e su quanto fosse misera la vita delle persone comuni, in particolare delle donne.
Carolly Erickson is kind of hit/miss for me with her historical fiction.
You can never really know what a historical figure was actually like, and I realize that some liberties have to be taken, but in my head there was a different version of Catherine Parr than Erickson portrayed...
at least at the end.
I always pictured Catherine Parr as a level headed, shrewd woman who did what she needed to do to survive.
For some reason, Catherine fell for it, up until the bitter end.
It made the ending more depressing than it needed to be.
Luckily, the book improved for me after she met Thomas Seymour, and after she got more directly involved in Henry VIII's court.
Overall, I think the book is nothing special, but it has some aspects I appreciated.First of all, I really liked that, through Cat's perspective, we got to see Henry VIII and other members of his court closely.
At the same time, I wish we could have seen more, but it was a nice device.Secondly, I liked how Erickson portrayed Henry and Cat's relationship, and even the king himself.
I generally love anything to do with the Tudors, and I enjoyed the author's book, The Hidden Diary of Marie Antoinette, so I had some reasonable hopes for this one.
There were times when it showed promise and I felt a little more engaged.
I think my problem with it was partly because I couldn't get past the deviations from historical record and partly because the author's take on Catherine clashed with my take on her.
All that aside, I'm still glad that I read the book because, after all, it let me spend time with my favorite royal family.
The author took quite abit of license with accepted historical fact-for instance she has her first husband as her age when history shows both of her first 2 husbands as having been older men.
In the end she finally gets pregnant and dies in childbirth while her husband has gathered an army against his brother Edward who is King Edward's Protector until he comes of age.
Again-the end differs somewhat from accepted historical fact-but she was interesting and even managed to write and publish some books for women on prayers and what not while she was queen.
"The Last Wife of Henry VIII: a novel" follows Katherine Parr, who is pursued by the king following his dispatch of Catherine Howard.
As a member of the court, Katherine has witnessed first-hand the demise of his past wives and determines to avoid marriage to the King.
Finally, forced into acceding to his wishes, she is able to garner a writ from Henry, which does not allow her to be killed no matter what wrong the King's addled mind perceives.
The writ serves her well as we are plunged headlong into the final days of Henry's monarchy.
Told in the first person, Catherine Parr recounts her life. She married for love, miscarried his child when he was accidentally killed, married an older man who died, was ready to marry for love again when King Henry asked her to be wife number six and she could not refuse. When Henry died, she did marry her love but he was not of good character. Court intrigue, jealousy, and schemes abound. Fun historical novel.
It is really tough to go wrong with historical fiction, and this author delivers. I had never read about this time and place before, and I found myself googling to distinguish fact from fiction on this one. This is a good, light book to read on vacation or when work is just too much. It will take you to another world.
Read by Terry Donnelly. UnabridgedGreat historian turned rogue. Will I like the romantic swerve *shrugs* later - Nope, I didn't like the romantic swerve at all, no surprise there I suppose*shrugs*
Two stars is the result of a cheesy storyline coupled with an irritating narration. It's only redeeming point was it's brevity. Not recommended.
Henry VIII is one of my favourite historical figures, love to read stories about his life
Good for a trip. Easy and forgettable.
Just couldn't do this one after reading half of Mary Luke's 'The Ivy Crown'. I thought the dialog was pretty unbelievable and the characterizations and motivations were too simplistic.
The novel opens when Catherine Parr is just a girl, and tells of her life as it revolves around the royal court, King Henry, and his many wives.
As each is discarded, we find Catherine in a new stage in her life - through her many marriages and ultimate pairing with the King.The Last Wife of Henry VIII focuses on Catherine Parr, though it can't escape mentions of Anne Boleyn.
That was a fresh take on the events of King Henry's life, as I've read more books that focus on his years with the Queen Catherine of Aragon and Queen Anne.
Far fewer books have been written about Katherine Parr than about Catherine of Aragon or Anne Boleyn, but Parr was special because she was the wife who outlasted Henry.
The book spans most of Parr's life, from a small child at the Field of Gold where her mother, a lady in waiting to king's first wife, Catherine of Aragon, was attempting to arrange a betrothal, to her death (which I'll say no more about in case you are unaware of the circumstances).
This book was engaging and I learned many new things about Parr, particularly about her earlier marriages prior to Henry.
I really enjoyed this book.
My only criticisms were that Erickson seemed to get rather repetitive with her word choices by the end, and that I found some of the ideas expressed by the main character a bit offensive.
I'm unsure whether the comments were views of the characters or views of the author veiled as views of the characters, but either way I feel the story would have done just fine without touching on modern controversial topics.
I'll give the benefit of the doubt that perhaps the comments were factually based.
Overall, I was sad when this book was finished and may pick up another of Erickson's novels.
