https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/896623.The_Flame_and_the_Flower
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestWoodiwiss is often credited with creating the first bodice ripper or the first "modern historical romance novel." I would actually disagree with both of those remarks - especially since they mean very different things. I wouldn't actually classify bodice-rippers as "romance" novels; they're more like anti-romance novels. The hero in these types of books is usually very similar to the villain, distinguishable only by a very thin and wavering
It is worth noting that Heather's amazing breasts have more agency than she does, thrusting desperately against clothing as they seek out male attention, declaring their arousal on behalf of Heather (who, you know, just sits there passively and chastely, relying on her breasts to act as liaison with sexual partners) and constantly threatening to pour out of her clothes; Heather's breasts are the true main characters in this book, and it is sad when a heroine's body parts seem to receive more narrative description and action verbs than she does.Her Aunt is tired of having Heather around and sends her off to be with her brother, who has plans to rape Heather and then, when he's tired of her, it is implied that he will give her to a Madam.
Sure, I love romantic books - I really enjoy reading them, but I have read a select few and to me they have often seemed more like a How To Guide: How To Have Your Very Own Abusive Relationship.And people wonder why women end up in abusive relationships when they're told that the very controlling behaviors exhibited by men in these novels are sweet and caring gestures.
I would like to read novels where the heroine isn't a victim of every situation - she's someone that takes charge of her life and sticks up for herself.In my mind, Brandon Birmingham needs to go sit in the corner and think about what he's done.Kathleen E.
To enter her world is to enter a time machine that transports you back to 1799, where Heather Simmons, our Georgian Cinderella, is being held captive by her aunt's cruelty until sea captain Brandon Birmingham comes storming into her life to sweep her away.
Whether it be on Amazon.com or on a panel with other romance writers, you can't discuss this book or Heather and Brandon's first sexual encounter without waging the same debate that's been raging ever since Rhett carried a resisting Scarlet up those long, winding stairs in Gone with the Wind.
4.5 stars."Kathleen Woodiwiss is credited with the invention of the modern historical romance novel: In 1972 she released The Flame and the Flower, an instant New York Times bestseller that created a literary precedent."Well done to her for "creating" this genre .... many have learned from her, I'm sure.I can see how some might have issues with what happened in the beginning of the book ... it's fiction ... it is what used to be termed "a bodice ripper" ... it happened. Her struggle pulled his s
4.5 stars."Kathleen Woodiwiss is credited with the invention of the modern historical romance novel: In 1972 she released The Flame and the Flower, an instant New York Times bestseller that created a literary precedent."Well done to her for "creating" this genre ....
many have learned from her, I'm sure.I can see how some might have issues with what happened in the beginning of the book ...
"With all the lovely young ladies here he had to go to England and bring back a Tory as a wife."
They may be a bit old and dated but I still love this genre.
I loved that most of this book doesn't involve love scenes, because we get to see the relationship between Heather and Brandon develop in a good way, and to reset the tone of their first meeting in this story.
I would recommend this book to a reader who wants a good romance book showing a couple who is married.
Louisa, Brandon's scheming ex-fiance was showed as a lacking contrast to Heather, not just in poor character, but because she was large-framed, and in her thirties, and not sexually innocent like Heather.
2. beauty= good, ugly= badI am reading my way through Romance Readers Top 100 and I finished Shanna first and then The Flame and the Flower.
My principal misgiving about the book will be pretty obvious: The hero's repeated rape of the heroine in the beginning of the book.
Unlike our hero he's evil because he's disgustingly ugly (also he kills people).
Evil guy tries to rape/kill our heroine and the hero saves her.
There are countless examples in the book, the most annoying of which I found to be when Louisa barges in on the happy couple while Heather's top is undone because she was just breast-feeding her son.
So if I guy thought you were hot and wanted you he could just rape you and you had to marry your rapist!!!!
I understand things were different but good god man that is crazy!Poor baby to have to live with that and the poor girl married to her rapist has to find a way to make peace and continue to forge a relationship based on rape!Disgusting.
What kind of a nut job is that?The only thing that redeemed this book for me somewhat was that he did not sleep with her until it felt right and he did not force her after their wedding.
I really don't get why people considered Kathleen E Woodiwiss to be the queen of historical romance?! I mean I have only read two of her novels and I can honestly say that she was nowhere near as good as other talented authors such as Judith Mcnaught and Laurie Mcbain. This book for instance is utter shite, full of stupid one dimensional characters with a pointless storyline that just drags on and on!! Don't waste your precious time reading this crap, you will only be sorry!
Tengo tantas cosas que decir que no soy capaz de ordenarlo todo.Primero os contaré de qué va esto:Tenemos a Heather, una chica que un día fue una dama inglesa, pero su padre, una vez murió su madre, se dedicó a gastarse todo en el juego.
Lo vendió todo, así que cuando murió dejó a Heather sola, y sin dote para casarse.
Quiero decir que antes de leer el libro, leí varias reseñas de otras personas (me gusta hacer eso, ver qué opinan los demás aunque yo luego me lo leo igual para crearme mi propia opinión) y eso de que Brandon es un cabronazo al principio pero luego mejora...
For now just learn to accept it.” And when she sobbingly tells him she hates him, loathes him, despises him, he actually laughs and says, “You’ll change your mind…Someday you’ll be begging for it…Just wait, Heather, and we’ll see which one of us is right.” Following the rape, he tells her he intends to install her in a private household as his London mistress.
She rides to London with her aunt and uncle and through the connections of a powerful family friend, the rapist, Captain Brandon Birmingham, is forced to man up and unwillingly dragged to the altar with Heather Simmons, the ever-deferential.
2,5#RitaWoodiwissLa verdad es que empieza mal, un cúmulo de desgracias que me han parecido demasiadas para empezar, a Heather le pasa de todo ya desde el primer momento.
A partir de la mitad, mejoró algo pero tampoco es que me haya conseguido atrapar del todo como lo hicieron las otras dos novelas que he leído de esta autora.
No me han atrapado ninguno de los dos protagonistas, me atraía más un secundario y éste no aparece hasta la mitad de la novela.
dnf @ 12%Well, turns out I'm not really into bodice rippers, and more into good guys (read non-assholes) and consensual sex. Thank you very much.
Yes, Brandon can be a class A jerk and extremely arrogant.
If that's what you want, this is not the book for you.What I love is that Brandon is so hopelessly whipped and is so stubborn about admitting it.
She didn't care if he didn't want sex, because it scared her.
He is also extremely protective of Heather and wants to give her everything.
Then she runs away from him, which does serve him right.****ADDED RE: Abridged Cassette version: bought this because it's one of my favs and I wanted to be able to listen to it while I cleaned or drove.
Our dear ship captain, being wealthy and attractive, can get away with rape?
I was also really sick of hearing about how attractive Heather was, probably because I was given no other reason to like her.
Ok...but she's done nothing except be a passive little mouse who's let other people live her life for her.
In fact, I generally felt that too much emphasis was placed on what people looked like and not enough on what they acted like.
More than one woman was insulted for being large or fat, unlike our dear, perfectly proportions little Heather.
No voy a contar la historia...Solo voy a decir que empieza mal, parece que mejora, pero no acaba de hacerlo... Con lo bonita que es Una rosa en invierno, la verdad es que me llevado un buen chasco...
But this book is far worse than that one was.I was feeling a bit bad that I convinced Melissa to buddy-read this with me, but now I'm quite glad I did.
It's hard to believe that the imprint that publishes and/or has published my favorites, Laura Kinsale and Lisa Kleypas, kicked things off with this disaster of a book.
How literally every single Meredith Duran, Cecilia Grant, and Laura Kinsale book ever published has a lower Goodreads rating than this pile of shit.
2. How Lisa Kleypas can call this her favorite Avon romance.
Whenever she was about on quarter-deck, close under Brandon's hand, every man's eyes were drawn to her at one time or another, and with the wind whipping her cloak about her and teasing a stray lock of hair she was something to behold.I'll be honest -- the second she started swirling gaily and turning her head to make her braids swing, I was imagining ways to kill her off.
"With your high-curved breasts and your rosy butt, you tempt a man even when you're asleep."Okay, so there's something funny about that in a campy kind of way, but it's not funny enough to sustain a whole book.Anyway, after they marry, Brandon is a big jerk, and Heather occasionally, wimpily, expresses her displeasure with being married to his rapey self.
Heather Simmons es una joven que para salir de su vida de pobreza decide ir con su tío a Londres pero su viaje se trunca cuando sus expectativas no son lo que eran, además se cruza en su camino un capitán Brandon Birmingham, todo orgullo y cabezonería y entre ellos se cree una relación bastante particular.Bueno dejando atrás el brutal spoiler que hacen en la sinopsis, porque para mí lo es, tengo que decir que esta novela primera de la serie Birminghan me ha gustado mucho.
I read this years ago when I was probably a young teenager.
I loved this book then.
**Last read on 7/1/2015**I still love this book.
Not sure why I had it at 4 stars when it is one of the classic Kathleen Woodiwiss book.
I'm changing my rating to 5 stars.
I think it is because now I read a lot of erotica and the sex scenes here are very tame, but I think the book as a whole has a great story so if I judged the story by itself it would have 5 stars so I'm changing it to 5 stars.
Rating: 0 Stars out of 5This was my first experience with a true "bodice ripper" and it will be my last.
In the first chapter the heroine kills a man defending herself from attempted rape, runs for her life and ends up with the "hero" who then rapes her himself, repeatedly.
I didn't make it to chapter two.
I skimmed a few pages here and there through the rest of the book.
I actually found it very disturbing.
Millions of copies of this book have been sold?
There was a time when women actually found reading about rape-based relationships appealing?
#RitaWoodiwiss #RetoRita2 Primera experiencia bodicerippeada superada!
This book starts with the abuse then rape of an innocent girl, a subsequent pregnancy then forced marriage to the man who raped her. Needless to say, I HATED it! Woodiwiss' writing skills undoubtably draw you into the story, however, therefore the two stars.
True it's written slightly better then your average two-bit rape porno but that hardly makes up for a plot that encourages the idea that raping women is a good way to meet your wife and treating them like crap afterwards, blaming them for your life, circumstances etc is a good way to develop a healthy marriage.
Lastly I would advocate stopping this book being called 'romance' it encourages women clearly suffering from stockholm syndrome to believe themselves in love with their abusers.
And almost every man wants her, read rape her.As for Brandon, the rapist who is not a rapist - at least according to the author.
But everything else is in there: The gender roles clichéed and sexist (men as well as women), and of course the happy slaves.I can't read a book and ignore the internal background (the story itself), nor the external background (when it was written and by whom).
Knowing what I know about women's rights and slavery, and knowing in which time it was written, The Flame and The Flower made me want to throw up.
I love this book. There sweet love story will make you believe there is love to be found. Brandon is a hero's hero. He makes you want to move to the south and find someone like him. Heather is one of those strong women packaged in a tiny body. This is truely a romantic classic.
Color me surprised that I actually ended up enjoying this. Don't get me wrong, this book is problematic af, but I still appreciate what it did for the romance genre.Heather was surprisingly autonomous, all things considered and keeping in mind the society in which the novel was published. I say surprisingly because on one page I would be like "Yes, girl! Stand up for yourself!" and then a few pages later I was yelling at her for being an idiot.It definitely helps to go into this novel knowing what to expect in terms of dubious consent and very alpha alpha-heroes
¡Me encanta esta mujer!Hace poco que descubrí a Kathleen, pero bendita sea la hora. Se ha ganado el puesto de mis favoritas en género histórico. Me encanta como de las situaciones más tensas y difíciles, crea historias de amor únicas.
Bir daha okudum. Pişman değilim.
After she realizes she is pregnant and the man who was basically her Godfather forces Brandon to marry her (because he would rather just have her as a mistress bearing his bastard child), she does everything she can do to please him.
She reasons in her mind that he is kind and generous; and it doesn't matter that he raped her the one night, that's just the way of men.The message in the book is very clear.
However, the men who are ugly outside behave the same and will rape you but it's unforgivable then because he's ugly.Women are only valued for beautiful physical appearance on the outside and virginal restraint, to only give sex to the husband.
"A single book created the “bodice ripper” as a concept and cultural phenomenon: 1972's The Flame and the Flower. Written by Midwestern homemaker Kathleen Woodiwiss and published by Avon, the novel is widely considered to be the first sexually explicit romance novel, released just as the second wave of the feminist movement was cresting."- this terrific articleWho's with me?
