https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5787.The_Aleph_and_Other_Stories
Yet when it comes to describing or imagining the afterlife, I’ve read very few accounts postulating how awareness could shift between various levels; rather, life (or lack of life) after death tends to be portrayed as an uninterrupted hum all at one frequency, the three major frequencies: 1) awareness within a specific form, like a light body 2) formless awareness, that is, our consciousness merging with undifferentiated oneness, an ocean of universal conscious 3) complete obliteration without a trace of conscious awareness.
•	What role does transformation on any level, physical, mental, artistic, spiritual, play in our life?Merged review:When I read the work of Jorge Luis Borges I feel like my universe is expanding a thousand-fold.
This is a masterful collection by a writer of genius. I believe The Aleph is just as good as Fictions," and Fictions is as good as any book of short pieces produced in the 20th Century. If you like paradoxes, puzzles, doppelgangers and labyrinths used as metaphors for the relation of microcosm to macrocosm and the fluid nature of personal identity, then this is the book for you. These stories are profound, but they are written in such an entertaining traditional narrative style that they might often be mistaken for pulp fiction if they weren't so astonishingly elegant.
EL aleph, Jorge Luis Borgesتاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دوم ماه ژوئن سال 2008 میلادیعنوان: الف (مجموعه 17 داستان کوتاه)؛ اثر: خورخه لوئیس بورخس؛ برگردان: م. طاهر نوکنده؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نیلوفر، چاپ دوم 1387، در 245 ص، شابک: 9789644483288، چاپ قبلی 1387 در 254 ص، کتابنامه از ص 241 تا 245، داستانهای کوتاه آرژانتینی، سده 20 مدر جهان داستاننویسیِ آمریکای لاتین، پس از انتشار آثار بورخس، کمتر نوشته ی قابل اعتنائی میتوان یافت که برای دور شدن از واقعیت گرائیِ عینی توانسته باشد از جادو و ابداعِ خیالی سازیه
طاهر نوکنده؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نیلوفر، چاپ دوم 1387، در 245 ص، شابک: 9789644483288، چاپ قبلی 1387 در 254 ص، کتابنامه از ص 241 تا 245، داستانهای کوتاه آرژانتینی، سده 20 مدر جهان داستان‌نویسیِ آمریکای لاتین، پس از انتشار آثار بورخس، کمتر نوشته‌ ی قابل اعتنائی می‌توان یافت که برای دور شدن از واقعیت‌ گرائیِ عینی توانسته باشد از جادو و ابداعِ خیالی‌ سازی‌های بورخس، از نخستین پیشتازان سده‌ ی بیستمیِ این نوع، چندان فاصله گرفته باشد.
I think it is clear that Borges borrowed from Lovecroft.
And I think it is just as clear that we read Lovecroft in light of what Borges did with the genre of fantasy/horror.
One obvious connection is the way both authors use the Arabic world, and Islam especially, as a focus for spiritual mystery.
Another connection between the two authors is their use of space in a story to represent spiritual awakening, often in an inverted form: Lovecroft tends downward, inward into the earth and to the South when he enters the realm of the soul, hell, and fear.
(hide spoiler)]The philosophical aspects mainly concern the essence of opposites, and hence, ways and forms of immortality: the “Wheel, which has neither end not beginning, each life is the effect of the previous life and engenderer of the next… Over an infinitely long span of time, all things happen to all men… heads and tails tend to even out… Viewed in that way, all our acts are just, though also unimportant.” Worse, “the notion of the world as an exact system of compensation… made them immune to pity.”For mortals, it’s different: “Death… makes men precious and pathetic… any act they perform may be their last… Everything in the world of mortals has the value of the irrecoverable and contingent.”The Dead ManThe story is summarised in the opening sentence: a low-life urban hoodlum becomes a horseman and the leader of a band smugglers.
He disfrutado mucho de esta lectura, aunque hay un puñado de relatos que no llegué a apreciar o entender, en cambio otros como 'El inmortal', 'Emma Zunz', 'La casa de Asterión', 'Deutsches Requiem' y 'El Alpeh' me fascinaron completamente y no puedo dejar de darles vueltas.
Borges consigue algo que nunca me había pasado, que según termine un relato quiera volver a leerlo una y otra vez para poder comprender cada uno de los mil detalles y referencias que nos presenta.Desde luego, una lectura muuuuuy particular y no apta para todos los paladares
|آرایش غلیظ|گفتن: «ترجمهی خوب مثل زن میمونه، خوشگلشْ وفادار نیست؛ وفادارشْ خوشگل نیست» اصلاً بیراه نگفتن، اقلاً در مورد ترجمه صادقهخُب، ترجمهی جناب نوکنده یه زنِ وفاداره که سعی میکنه با آرایشِ غلیظ خودش رو خوشگل نشون بده. به دلیل ویراستهای متعدد، تطبیقهای چندباره_با فاصلههای زمانی طولانی _ و البته «اینکاره» نبودن ایشون، متن پُر سکتهست، به عبارت خودمونیتر، هِی قطع وُ وصل میشه، یکدست و همدست نیست، متن وصلهپینه شدهست. یه «ادبی» بودن نابهنگامی هم توی متن موج میزد که بعضی جاها آزاردهنده بوداما هر زنِ
|آرایش غلیظ|گفتن: «ترجمه‌ی خوب مثل زن می‌مونه، خوشگلشْ وفادار نیست؛ وفادارشْ خوشگل‌ نیست» اصلاً بی‌راه نگفتن، اقلاً در مورد ترجمه صادقهخُب، ترجمه‌ی جناب نوکنده یه زنِ وفاداره که سعی می‌کنه با آرایشِ غلیظ خودش رو خوشگل نشون بده.
ثانیاً، اینجوری که مترجم توضیح دادن، یه جاهایی عملاً توی ترجمه‌های انگلیسی دست‌برده شده و بالتبع ترجمه‌ی فارسی هم چنین میشه؛ این موضوع در برخی داستان‌ها کاملاً مشخص بود و این رو وقتی متوجه شدم که ترجمه‌ها رو با هم مقایسه کردمپی‌نوشت: تقریباً، تمام داستان‌های این مجموعه، بجز سه‌چهار تا، قبلاً ترجمه شده.
Stevenson, Wells, Twain, Verne,…the Arabian Nights, were some of the references for Borges very early on, back in Argentina. At his father’s library, he read a lot. Then he went to Europe...  Borges: “American, old and a blind poet “ he realized once, later in life. Afterwards he had to live up to it and face old age as a “time of happiness”; the “animal being dead…man and soul go on”.  Borges: “a shy man who longed for oblivion” (“siempre tímido”, as he said of himself); but not shy stories, he
Borges: “American, old and a blind poet “ he realized once, later in life.
The second story is about the Zahir, the coin, first gotten as money change from a drink ("aguardente").
The narrator has had a dream: “I was the coin, …a Griffin watched” ...Plus, reflections on Sufi wisdom: the repetition of names for 99 times: “maybe behind it is God”.
Ah, the zahir,the coin…the narrator got rid of it,… in a drink.
Mostly, stories to ponder;to enjoy their full color; maybe to get perplexed; to start searching for meaning;...
Stories to be read not once; but 9 times;or 99 times;...
You're avoiding a single star, Borges, simply because I try my best not to dish them out.
There's little value in reading if one is going to try consider ways to dislike doing it.
Reading through the contents list, I can easily choose five or six stories whose very conception alone excite me(The Immortal, The Zahir, The Writing of The God, The House of Asterion), but you continually bashed me over the head with names, places, dates, literary and historical allusions(all of which I recognise as necessary to legitimise a story's authenticity), but I simply wanted a story, not a reference manual.
After the death of his beloved friend Beatriz Viterbo, Borges does not miss the appointment to visit his house, located on Garay Street; every April 30, her birthday.
After some time, Carlos Argentino Daneri makes Borges a desperate phone call: Zunino and Zungri, the rich owners of the house, intend to demolish it to expand one of their most successful businesses.
Daneri exalted, confesses to Borges that inside the house is an Aleph, which is a point in space that contains all the points.
However, the author visits Daneri, who tells him a specific place under the basement staircase where the Aleph is safely located.
I know why I didn't write a review.
I wrote several reviews about Borges' books and I got tired of saying how amazing this writer was.
This is one of the greatest short stories collections I've ever read.
There are ordinary situations combined with magical events, sometimes very subtle, sometimes not.
And they're all beautifully written.
Stories like "El Inmortal", "Emma Zunz", "La casa de Asterión" or "Los teólogos" are outstanding pieces of literary work that nobody should miss.
This guy created an amazing universe that will surely captivate you, if you give it a chance.
I think about it and dsadsafsafs.
عالم بورخيس القصصي عجيب في بعض أحيان بتكون الفانتازيا والغرابة في النص الأدبي طريفة وممتعة وفيها صور خيالية جميلة وأحيان أخرى تكون غاية في الغموضبعض القصص في هذه المجموعة الخيال فيها مثير للدهشة, وأخرى أفكارها مفهومة إلى حد ما وبعضها الكاتب نفسه بيدخل فيها فكأنها أجزاء من حياته.قراءة مختلفة ومحيرة
But trust me, after reading this magnificent writer, and specially such writings as the ones collected in El Aleph, life's never the same.
My brain may be fried, but my soul feels somewhat soothed.Reading him is like facing the Zahir: something that seeds in one's soul a never-ending obsession in life's groundless soil.
Reading him is like finding a two-hundred-paged Aleph in a shelf, wherein I found infinite selves, like Abraham's seed, multiplied as the stars of Heaven (Genesis 26:4), living infinite scenarios that I saw forking in time and space.

But when Borges is at his best, such as (for me) in El inmortal, La casa de Asterión, and the title story, El Aleph—when Borges breaks through my instinctive suspicion of all art that is intentionally mysterious—I feel the floor collapse from under me, and I am lost in an expansive feeling of literary pleasure.
My problem is that, when the mysterious Borges effect fails to manifest, I am left with dense and at times dry prose (no doubt intentionally so), which I have trouble enjoying.I was hoping that reading the stories in the original would be a different experience; but, alas, it was déjà vu.
Tenía ganas de leerlo por decir "ya leí a Borges en algún punto de mi vida", pero realmente fue una lectura algo difícil.
Es el primer libro con el que experimento la convicción de volver a leerlo en otro punto de mi vida.
Por ello, creo que lo voy a volver a leer en algunos años.
En momentos fue muy tedioso y hasta quise romper mi regla de no cambiar de libro, pero persistí.
En general es un libro que siento que se debe leer más de una vez y en distintas etapas de nuestras vidas.
«Ma non ho soltanto immaginato giuochi; ho anche meditato sulla casa. Tutte le parti della casa si ripetono, qualunque luogo di essa è un altro luogo. Non ci sono una cisterna, un cortile, una fontana, una stalla; sono infinite le stalle, le fontane, i cortili, le cisterne.»Non manca molto al trentennale della prima lettura, eppure ricordo ancora dove ero, in che posizione stavo mentre leggevo, la sensazione di vedere spalancarsi stanze nella mia testa, il desiderio e la vertigine di attraversale tutte.
This is the 2nd time I try to read these stories.
I liked the ideas (such as for the Immortals) but the author continually put references of different names, places, dates, literary and historical citations that in my opinion made the story unpleasant to read.
I understand the author is very well read and he drew inspiration from all the book he cites (Iliad, Hamlet, etc) but i think they disrupt the flow of the story.I will come back to it after I read more and I will be wiser.
The Aleph is a window for everything that the world contains; perhaps that is the perfect description of Borges's stories.I must admit, however, that some of the stories didn't awe me that much.
(One can argue that this story fits more the "supernatural" category than the Argentine gaucho category but no matter).
The stories where Borges dissociates from himself and sees himself through a mirror are some of my favourite as well.
Still, apart from the Aleph and another couple of stories, I found that the most interesting writing of this volume is Borges's autobiography.
The Last Words of Christ the LordA friend of my ex-wife’s (it’s not necessary that you know his name or hers), though at the time of his death a committed atheist, was awarded a Doctor of Sacred Theology by an American University after the publication of his biography of the late Pope, which was generally well received, even in Roman Catholic circles.
I only know this, because, when he died, my wife’s friend bequested this collection (including the book and the photograph) to her (an otherwise devout believer) in his will, and when she subsequently died, she likewise gave the documents to our son in her will.
La casa è grande come il mondo.""Nella Somma Teologica si nega che Dio possa far sì che il passato non sia stato, ma non si dice nulla dell'intricata concatenazione di cause ed effetti, che è tanto vasta e segreta che forse non si potrebbe annullare un solo fatto remoto, per insignificante che sia stato, senza infirmare il presente.
Modificare il passato non è modificare un fatto isolato; è annullare le sue conseguenze, che tendono a esser infinite.""So che alcuni operavano il male affinché nei secoli futuri ne derivasse il bene, o ne fosse derivato in quelli passati...Visti in tal modo, tutti i nostri atti sono giusti, ma sono anche indifferenti.
Ama Borges içine girilmesi, anlaşılması çok zor bir dünya yaratmıştı.
Sinirlendim ve Borges'i anlaşılmayacak bir şeyler yazdığı için kibirli buldum.Üstünden aylar geçti ve ben kitaba hiç dokunmadım.
Ama geçen zaman içinde içimdeki Borges de boş durmamış olacak ki, "Belki Borges sen anla diye yazmıyordur, kendi bilgi birikimine eş seviyedeki insanlar için yazıyordur, neden kendinden cahiller için normalde yazacağından daha basit yazsın ki?" dedi.
"Borges'in işi okumak ve yazmaktı, okurunun onun seviyesinde olmasını şart koşması kibir değil mi?" dedim içimdeki Borges'e."Şart koşmuyor ki, sen birkaç şeyi anlamamaktan korktuğun için o kitabı eline almayacak kadar kibirlisin sadece," dedi.
کتاب مجموعه ای از 17 داستان کوتاه هست.کتاب خوبی بود و داستان های زیبایی داشت ...اما بزرگترین مشکل این اثر، حداقل برای من، این بود که کتاب پر بود از اسامی آدم ها ،اسطوره ها و سرزمین های ناشناخته ای که من به سختی اسم بعضی از آنها را شنیده بودم، و چون دائما" باید به پی نوشت ها مراجعه می کردم کمی خسته کننده و حوصله سر بر بود
Για άλλη μια φορά ο Μπόρχες κατάφερε να με κάνει να ταξιδέψω μέσα στα δαιδαλώδη μονοπάτια της φαντασίας του...Η συγκεκριμένη συλλογή διηγημάτων απαρτίζεται από ιστορίες που έχουν μια κοινή βάση -τουλάχιστο οι περισσότερες- κι αυτή είναι η αναζήτηση του Θεού.
Σχεδόν σε όλα τα διηγήματα υπάρχει διάχυτος ένας μυστικισμός ενώ οι επιρροές από την Βίβλο, το Κοράνι και άλλα θρησκευτικά βιβλία είναι καταφανέστατες.
Λαβύρινθοι, καθρέφτες, σωσίες και περίεργα σύμβολα εμφανίζονται συνεχώς σε όλα διηγήματα, ενώ παράλληλα ο Μπόρχες δεν σταματάει να μας υπενθυμίζει την αγάπη του για την αστυνομική λογοτεχνία αλλά και την γεωμετρία!Στην διαπίστωση σας κύριε Μπόρχες πως "όλοι οι άνθρωποι είναι είτε πλατωνικοί είτε αριστοτελικοί" εγώ προτιμώ να αυτοχαρακτηριστώ ως "μπορχεσικός".5/5
E il loro insieme è qualcosa di unico e irripetibile, che dà vita a un’opera-cardine della letteratura universale, destinata a fissarsi in maniera indelebile nella memoria e nell’esistenza stessa del lettore.
La prosa di Borges, potente e inafferrabile, contribuisce in maniera determinante alla fruizione del racconto, in quanto le descrizioni (di personaggi, animali, architetture, luoghi, gesti...) e la formulazione dei concetti si avvalgono di termini densi, sofisticati e fortemente evocativi, che ad una analisi approfondita suggeriscono all’intelletto e alla creatività del singolo lettore infinite immagini e infinite interpretazioni.
"Que o céu exista, mesmo que o nosso lugar seja o inferno." Há dias (por "culpa" de uma amiga do Goodreads) ouvi uma pequena história de Jorge Luis Borges que me impressionou:Um dia, junto das pirâmides do Egipto, Borges apanhou um punhado de areia, largou-o mais à frente e disse: "Estou a modificar o deserto. ...e, através da sua escrita, modifica a mente de quem o lê...Dos dezassete contos, incluídos neste livro, não gostei muito da maior parte deles. Ou porque não os compreendi (perdida em l
Há dias (por "culpa" de uma amiga do Goodreads) ouvi uma pequena história de Jorge Luis Borges que me impressionou:Um dia, junto das pirâmides do Egipto, Borges apanhou um punhado de areia, largou-o mais à frente e disse: "Estou a modificar o deserto.
...e, através da sua escrita, modifica a mente de quem o lê...Dos dezassete contos, incluídos neste livro, não gostei muito da maior parte deles.
Mas....dos dezassete "guardei" três, aos quais junto a frase lá de cima.
Para O Imortal e Deutsches Requiem cinco punhados de areia; para O Aleph o deserto inteiro...
Uno strumento (non so quanto sia corretto definirlo in questo modo) estremamente sofisticato che riesce a definire nel modo più preciso la concezione stessa dell'infinito.Nonostante la grandezza di questi racconti, devo però rivedermi su alcune cose, dopo aver letto Finzioni, L'aleph non è riuscito veramente a stupirmi, forse perché molte delle storie presenti in questa raccolta (pur avendo un'identità totalmente diversa) sono al limite dell'analogia.L'Aleph è comunque una raccolta davvero degna di nota: imprescindibile, inconfondibile e indimenticabile, che come le altre opere di Borges stravolge la letteratura, la reinterpreta ma soprattutto la cambia.Una piccola Bibbia di universi mai esistiti, ma che potrebbero comunque esserci.
E ogni volta mi sentivo come quel rudimentale troglodita del primo racconto, tuttavia priva di immortalità.
L’ho ripreso infine da poco, quando ho scoperto su GR un gruppo di lettura che aveva scelto proprio "L’Aleph” per il mese di dicembre.
Ringrazio gli intervenuti, benché nessun aiuto abbia ricevuto in quel senso; tutto ciò che ne ho ricavato è che la "logica" di Escher è chiara e mi affascina, mentre quella di Borges è contorta e mi innervosisce.Ma li ringrazio con convinzione, perché mi hanno fatto decidere di liberarmi definitivamente del “grande” Borges; alla fine con soddisfazione e sollievo.
Tanto di cappello a chi sa apprezzarlo; io mi accontento della mia normale… “mortalità”, potendo gustare altrove la lettura come regalo, e piacere!
فهذا الإنسان موسوعي جدا و كأنه مطلع على كافة الثقافات و الأديان و الأساطير في الأرض...
فمثلا كيف لنقطة أن تحتوي كل الزمان و المكان و كل شيء بوقت واحد لا متعاقب...0طبعا ليس من داع لأقول أن لم تكن كل القصص على سوية واحدة و أن فكرته كثيرا ما كان يعيدها في كثير من الأحيان بطرق مختلفة...
غريب جدا هذا الإنسان...
0طبعا قراءتها بالانكليزية مع كل هذه الأسماء و التراكيب كانت مهمة شاقة جدا و استغرقتني شهرا حتى أنهيتهالكن و مع ذلك وجدتها مفهومة أكثر من النسخة المترجمة للعربيةإذ أنها كانت أشبه بالطلاسم
Mükemmel bir bilgi birikimi ve harika kurgulanmış öyküler eğer siz de bu bilgilere sahipseniz. Yüzeysel olarak okunarak da zevk alınacak bir kitap ama ben ayrıntılarda boğuldum, bilmediğim pek çok efsane, kültür, olay... Daha iyi bir dönem de tekrar okumayı kesinlikle isterim.
