https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127682.In_Tuscany
this is more of a travel guide book with beautiful photographs capturing the light and landscape of Tuscany. Not quite a coffee-table book and prettier than a standard travel guide, it falls between. Worth buying if you plan a visit or have visited and want a memento...but not at full price.
Though I could already visualize Tuscany through Frances Mayes written words, the book is definitely frosting on the cake. Now that I took it down from the shelf to add to my list here ,I will once again immerse myself in the pages and return to Tuscany.
When we can't travel in reality, a well-written book takes us there in mind and spirit. I'm a fan of Frances Mayes's Under the Tuscan Sun and much enjoyed returning to Tuscany and spending some delightful hours exploring the piazzas, celebrations, family meals, churches, statues, mushrooms, olives, flowers...everything that makes Tuscany a beautiful, even sacred place to live. The only regret is that the audio can't show me the photos or recipes, so I must find a copy at the library.
ahhh beautiful writing, delightful recipes and magnificent photography
Beautiful photos of a beautiful place
Good
First read this while in Belgie -- somewhere around 2001 maybe? Picked it up on a whim recently and read it right through again -- serndipitously encountering once again one of my favorite quotes as though for the first time! Mayes Tuscany talk speaks to me -- maybe because I naturally lean to the color palette encountered in her beloved Tuscan countryside and homes. Photography of amazing resonance. Recipes which make one's mouth water and her obvious love of her adopted city and country and the people -- what else could one ask?
Another book in the style of ' Bringing Tuscany Home ' so my comments are the same for both.Her books are a strange amalgamation of subjects.They obviously confuse the Dewey system used by libraries in that this book and the one above, are in two different categories although almost identical in subject matters. She's also in a third category in the food section.More a book to read, the recipes are almost incidental.
This is a book for lovers of travel and Italian life. Based on Tuscany and villages around Cortona, where Frances Mayes and her husband have restored a house - Bramasole - (re her previous books "Under the Tuscan Sun" and "Bella Tuscany") this book focuses on the important aspects of Italian life - the Piazza - the Fiesta - the fields - the food. It isn't a recipe book but does contain some. The photography is just beautiful. A real "coffee table" book.
This was a super quick read for food lovers and/or lovers of Italian culture. Having spent some time in Tuscany eating our way from village to village I really enjoyed all of the food descriptions. It is nice that Mayes explores more than just the food though and talks about the people and the Tuscan attitude. It felt like I had escaped back to the rolling hillside and sunny days of my favorite places in Tuscany while I read this.
This is a different take on Frances Mayes's always intoxicating view of Tuscany. I enjoyed getting to see photos of the places she's described in her previous books, although, as other reviewers have mentioned, I would have preferred less artistic blurriness and more detail. Still, this is yet another gorgeous book, full of gorgeous prose, celebrating a most gorgeous place. Thoroughly enjoyed it.
Beautiful photography paired with excellent narrative equals a very enjoyable read. What a great find for $2 at our library's used book sale. Oh, and don't read the recipes if you're hungry...you have been duly warned!!
Let's one look at another culture and an American can blend into that culture. Plus it had recipes to be made. This book is a travelog and makes one want to go to Tuscany and spend more time than usual. This book a keeper.
I cheated. I listened to the Author and her husband read it to me while I was driving to work.Now I want to travel to Italy. I want to see and experience a piazza, center of town or the universe it seems.
Almost a travel guide, I'm not sure why this book was written. It might as well be a journal entry of a foreigner in Italy. I'm of Italian ancestry--and so I want to like this. But, the whole thing is so foreign to me, that I can't relate. Perhaps I need to get to Tuscany, and then re-read?
I really like Frances Mayes' books. They transport me to a place I love. I can relate to her and her stories very well. I loved this book because of the stories, pictures, recipes. It has everything rolled up in one.
I "read" this book via the audio version and just did not like it. It was almost like listening to someone read from a travel guide that's too full of details. I usually love her books so perhaps reading it would have garnered a different reaction on my part. Very disappointed.
I like Mayes writing. Her descriptions of landscape and food in Tuscany delight me.
Anything by this author is a glimpse into life in Italy. Beautifully written as always,open the book and you are transported.
This is a beautiful book. The pictures alone will have you dreaming of moving to Tuscany as soon as possible.
Beautiful and enchanting a story as ever. Between her prose, the pictures and recipes you feel Tuscany.
BEAUTIFUL!
A virtual travel to Tuscany, Italy through the eyes of Frances Mayes was a delightful experience. The pictures were breathtaking and her words desciptive.
Beautiful picture book.
Because it is read by the author, who has a strong Southern accent, I found it weird at first.
Fascinating read. And I adore the Tuscan recipes included. I have used them for years in my kitchen. Frances really captured the total essence of life in this magical land.
From "Under the Tuscan Sun" author, this beautiful book lavishlypresents the people, food, landscapes, and art of Tuscany. The photosare impressive.
One of my favorite books! Very vivid descriptions... it's like you're traveling with her and you will want to go to all of the places she describes!
A guided tour through Tuscany filled with gorgeous photographs. Also one of my favorite cook books. Recipes in this book have become family favorites.
