https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23317538-rising-strong
When you are at that precipice of argument, Brené sits angelically on your shoulder saying, “Conspiracy thinking is all about fear-based self-protection and our intolerance for uncertainty.” You ask at the time of reading, “Brené, what on earth are you even talking about?” Then comes the moments where it all makes sense.My inner nerd got excited about Rising Strong’s introduction—research!!
“Give yourself permission to feel emotion, get curious about it, pay attention to it, and practice.” Some of the bigger takeaways from Rising Strong are finding “the story I’m making up” through writing out your SFD (‘stinky’ first draft—you can replace the S-word) and strengthening the belief that people around us are doing the best they can.Brené doesn’t think positively.
Brene Brown's book purports to be a self-help book about getting over life's adversities but it never delivers.
Instead, Brown writes a series of non-event anecdotes from her boring, privileged life as a social work teacher at the University of Houston (she's married to a pediatrician), including such episodes as being upset when she couldn't get a book deal right away, being irritated by a woman who wrote a snippy email to her after a speaking engagement, getting into inconsequential arguments with her husband and accidentally picking up a pile of trash that had, well, more than trash in it....
I was unsure how I'd feel about reading a Brene Brown book since I have only watched her TED Talks and listened to The Power of Vulnerability which is a series of workshop courses she gave.I shouldn't have wondered.
In fact, early in the book Brown's realization that "you can't skip Act 2" (a reference that will be clear if you read the book) was revelatory for my husband and me in a work situation that we're slogging through at the moment.
just working our way through it to Act 3.I like the way Brown has our innate connection to storytelling as a parallel thread.
However,**Rebecca Foster** already wrote A PERFECT REVIEW.
Everything she wrote fits my experience!I enjoyed LISTENING to this book while walking.
(I might have been too judgmental) Personal things I'm looking at from this book:TIMES I HIDE OUT and SHUT down: in front of my mother-in-law and my brother-in-law!
Isn't that enough to look at?
The gimmicky terminology and frequent self-referencing grated on me a bit, but I appreciated how the book made me re-consider events from my own life.
Its the ideas that carry "Rising Strong", soas long as you come to it expecting a useful tool rather than a literaryexperience you shouldn't be disappointed.Genuinely helpful self-help."THANK YOU, *Rebecca*!*****Valuable tools for being an emotionally more present human being -for our toolbox!
This book is a way with handling emotions that come up in life.
She says the protagonist tries everything to solve the problem in their life from a comfortable place.
I need to read this book about 5 more times at least to let it sink in.
I love her work and I need to learn this.
I need to do some work like this to help move some inner stuff.
(like this email)Much of the things she speaks to in this book are issues I'm dealing with right now.
I really needed this story at this time.
I can well imagine encountering the warm Texan embrace of Brené Brown's brand of social psychology at other times of my life and being turned off by its fierceness, volume and confidence.
I may have looked askance at the cult of Brené Brown, with legions of devotees who discovered her through her TED talk gone viral, read her previous works, taken her Oprah-endorsed self-actualization workshops, or listened to her CD series on vulnerability and shame.
We're supposed to have learned to look at people as doing the best they can.
Nor do we know if she asked permission to share the story after revealing enough details about "Pamela" for people, like her boss and coworkers, to know who she is.
What do they have to say about doing the best they could with the tools they had and the places they were in at the moment they crossed paths with the author?This is what stuck with me most after reading the book.
When I read a self-help book, I realize not all of it will apply to me or I will take what I need at that moment.
I used some of her ideas the next day and honestly felt better about my day and communication with the people around me.
Now I'm married, I need to be able to understand my emotions that I tend to keep buried and "safe" and I need to communicate better with my husband and children.
I would recommend this book just for the help of thinking in a different way.
I think both he and the author herself would have recommended I read that book instead of this book.
The other perspective I come from in reading this is in my work, where I lead a team, one I feel protective of; I want them to be creative and work together and not to feel discouraged when we fail or are told we can't do an idea that we planned for.
The author does a fine job reading, but I found I had to consult the print to look back at a few points I wanted to hold on to.

Reading it was a life-changing experience.
Rising Strong is equally good, and different from her other books in all the right ways.
Daring Greatly discussed vulnerability in terms of courage and shame, but in Rising Strong, she talks about it as an essential ingredient for any forward momentum in our lives.
For interpersonal conflict, workplace tension, or any number of other pain points in our lives, Rising Strong stresses vulnerability and emotion as being key to solving those issues.
Brown is straight-forward about how we fail at this: we act out hurt instead of feeling it.
I'm sure this book would've been impactful no matter when I read/listened to it, but MAN does it feel incredibly appropriate right now.
Perhaps I'm an outlier, but I feel like this an overly long rehashing of all that I already know and practice, and using terms like "rumbling" makes it a bit too precious. Drat.

In “Rising Strong” she digs deep into that space between failure and recovery – the “Act 2” as she calls it – because she sees it being glossed over in our culture:“On a cultural level, I think the absence of honest conversation about the hard work that takes us from lying face down in the arena to rising strong has led to two dangerous outcomes: the propensity to gold plate grit and a badassery deficit…We much prefer stories about falling and rising to be inspirational and sanitized…We like recovery stories to move quickly through the dark so we can get to the sweeping redemptive ending.”With examples from her research and her own life, Brown outlines several case studies of people who spent a lot of time in “Act 2”, and the strategies they used to do the hard work required to really get back up and go on.
A good non-fiction book infuses detailed stories and vignettes and links them to the main points and research in the text.
I loved the topics of research that she discussed: resiliency and mindfulness especially, and also her focus on the importance of re-framing our initial emotional responses to aversive events.
However, my main critique of the book is that I didn't like the stories and vignettes that she gave as examples to illustrate these points.
My problem was that these great points and examples were needles in a haystack of repetitive "personal" thoughts.
Having read all of Ms. Brown’s previous books and listened to many of her “talks” via TED talks and podcasts, you could say I’m a “fan”.
Her work on shame has been life changing for me and I assume many others.Though I enjoy personal stories as examples, she was “too personal” for me in this book.
Obviously she felt they were important to make her point and I’m sure some will feel they are helpful, too.Ms. Brown continues to inspire with the results of her work in “Rising Strong”.
Anyone interested in living life fully will certainly glean something new from this work.
I was introduced to Brene' Brown through her two popular "Ted Talks" one in The Power of Vulnerability (2010) and Listening to shame (2011).
The stories are better in this book than in Daring Greatly.
She makes no secret that this struggle can be life long but she does clue us in as to how fullfilling Daring Greatly and Rising Strong can be, and how it not only helps us, but the people around us.Brene' Brown is a person of faith.
The most effective parts of the story come from Brown sharing about her life.
I didn't care for the long stories...For me, I wanted to grasp what was being said without all the extra dialogue.
Much of it felt like "filler" to me.
There were some neat things that I noted, but it was hard sifting through all the "filler" to get to the data.
I think it's fine to use a story to help make a point, but sum it up quickly and get to the point is my preference.
Also, some of the stories the author relayed about her own life seemed...immature?
"Curiosity is a shit-starter." My new favorite motto.
I'll say right away that I love Brene Brown.
I've read three of her previous books back to back a few years ago, I've seen her TED talks and several interviews.
The author even says at the end that the book isn't enough to deal with the heavier stuff, although it will be helpful.
I was looking for a book that talks about how to not break down and "rise strong" in the face of serious hardship.
"Rising strong" wasn't my favorite among Brene Brown's books - but it's a good one.
If you haven't read Brene Brown - I recommend picking something up.
Ik vind dat ze heel helder onderbouwt waarom in alle openheid praten over je kwetsbaarheden of daar waar je een gevoel hebt tekortgeschoten te zijn zo belangrijk is, maar vooral ook verrijkend.
Als je je laat inperken door wat mensen wel niet zouden denken, dan verlies je niet alleen de moed om kwetsbaar te zijn, maar ook het vermogen je werkelijk te verbinden met de mensen om je heen.
Een onverwachte eye-opener was haar uitleg over waarom sommige mensen zo moeilijk over hun emoties praten.
Ik heb alles onder controle!), terwijl je zo ontzettend goed de onzekerheid die daarachter schuilt voelt, maar nooit een opening om erover te praten.
I felt somewhat betrayed by this book. I read it on the strength of a TV interview in which Brown maintained that her 'research' led her to come to certain conclusions, however, upon reading the book, I was presented with nothing but anecdotal information laced with religious interpretations of certain events. Where was the research? The statistics? I don't endorse or dispute the results Brown points to, but I have to question her conclusions as she provides no empirical evidence for the conclusions she reaches.
But this book is different in that it recognizes personal failures are inevitable if you keep putting yourself out there, and how to work through those disappointments to grow as a person.Brown doesn’t just write and speak about vulnerability, she lives it.
“Our job is not to deny the story,” Brown says, “but to defy the ending—to rise strong, recognize our story, and rumble with the truth until we get to a place where we think, Yes. This is what happened.
Rather than denying hurts Brown encouraged me to work my way through failures, to adjust my own sails.
I was disappointed with this book, which is not nearly as good or as helpful as Brown's "The Gifts of Imperfection" or "Daring Greatly." In the book, she discusses the importance of setting boundaries and assuming that people are doing their best.
Instead, she plays the victim and shares a vindictive email that she planned to send to Pamela and her boss.
There was no enlightenment of how she should have set clear boundaries with the event organizers to avoid the situation with Pamela in the first place or with Pamela during the encounter.
I listened to this book and it took me a long time to really get some momentum with it and understand her approach and definition to things that she refer to - words like "rumbling" and "reckoning" etc.
This is a book that I want to listen to and read and refer to again and again.
When he loaded it up on his phone I told him, "I'm not sure how much you will love this book - but you will definitely be learning a lot about your wife while reading/listening to it."
It seems like Dr. Brown's work can get kind of repetitive, and this book definitely seemed to have some material that's been used before. But I still learned a lot from this book, along with her other one that I listened to. The recycled work doesn't take away from this one, though. It's still used in a way to help expand on her thoughts and points.
As expected, Brene Brown proposes really fantastic and applicable processes for us as individuals, families, coworkers etc to recognize conflict and failure, and then rise from it having reckoned with our emotions and taking away 'key learnings.' The process she describes is instantly applicable to all of us, in both small and large scale crises.
It takes about 60 pages to get to a real life experience, the book starts with a lot of social science jargon, 'data,'and exposition.
However, I found the book to be insightful and it expounded on a lot of my personal beliefs and processes in dealing with failure/trauma/conflict.
Absolutely resonated with a lot of stuff I've been "rumbling" with lately.
Brown writes with such clarity about those difficult emotions like shame and heartbreak, and her thinking helped me continue to unpack my baggage in these areas.
I love the idea of being curious enough about our strong reactions to look at the story we are telling ourselves and to go after information that will allow us to understand the true story.
Also, this is such a great resource for writers as many of the concepts overlap with creation of fictional stories, too.
"The middle is messy, but it's also where the magic happens!"
This is the first book of Brene Brown's that I have read. Perhaps that is why her style did not resonate with me as it has with so many other readers. While I did find some chapters more compelling than others, I felt there was too much of the author herself in the book. I was hoping to be inspired, and was encouraged by all the positive reviews, but for me, this book missed the mark.
