https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18045.The_World_of_Jeeves
But if we are to have new and reinvigorated seven, then I would like to put forward for inclusion ‘The World of Wooster’ – the quite magnificent (and I use that term without any fear of hyperbole) collected short stories of Bertie Wooster and his valet Jeeves.Okay, when it comes to visual splendour a 774 paperback volume of short stories might not be up there with The Colossus of Rhodes or The Hanging Gardens of Babylon, but once the pages are open there is joy almost beyond comprehension.
As great as these short stories are, there can sometimes be too much of a good thing.
That's the only thing stopping me from giving this a 5-star rating - as much as I enjoyed each story, they do seem to follow a pattern that gets a little formulaic.
1) Bertie establishes the scene, 2) friend (or aunt) of Bertie presents problem (usually one of a romantic nature), 3) Bertie royally screws everything up, 4) Jeeves saves the day...What's remarkable is that even with a pattern that get so predictable, Wodehouse makes it work.
For any fan of these tales, it's definitely worth a look, whether in this volume or in Carry On, Jeeves, i which it originally appears.
For any Wooster and Jeeves fan, it’s definitely worth a look.As for the book as a whole, as others, including the author himself, have warned, it’s probably something to visit from time to time rather than devour in one or two sittings unless, of course, like myself, you’re endlessly fascinated by Wodehouse’s style and by the dialect he uses.
This volume collects all of Wodehouse's Jeeves & Bertie short stories, and it's a treat.
Jeeves has suggested that Bertie refer to the parties as A and B.
Bertie needs to bring in a third person, and says:"Now until quite recently B was engaged to--""Shall we call him C, sir?""Caesar's as good a name as any, I suppose.
Well, as I was saying, until quite recently B was engaged to Caesar...."The last two stories here have not appeared in any other collection, as far as I know, and that's reason enough for Wodehouse fans to pick this up.
I went and picked this up after reading a recent "chick lit" novel that, to its credit, reminded me that comic tales of the rich and feckless can be rather enjoyable when well done.
Even so, the first part of the book really made me feel that I'd made a mistake in purchasing it--Jeeves was always shimmering in, Bingo Little was always in love with a new gal, Bertie was always agreeing by the end of the tale to get rid of some loud item of clothing.However, things picked up a bit.
In essence, Wodehouse is wonderful, but he's got his formula and so the question for the reader is, do you enjoy his formula?
It's wonderful to have all the Jeeves stories in one place. This'll be a wonderful, late night, bedside reader for years to come. Just plain fun!
I've been wandering round in circles for hours.''Why didn't you ask the way?''I can't speak a word of French.''Well, why didn't you call a taxi?''I suddenly discovered I'd left all my money at my hotel.''You could have taken a cab and paid it when you got to the hotel.''Yes, but I suddenly discovered, dash it, that I'd forgotten its name.'And there in a nutshell you have Charles Edward Biffen.
I'm engaged for lunch, but I've plenty of time.'We drifted to one of the eleven cafes which jostled each other along the street and I ordered restoratives.'What on earth are you doing in Paris?' I asked.'Bertie, old man,; said Biffy solemnly, 'I came her to try and forget.''Well, you've certainly succeeded.'"-- The Rummy Affair of Old Biffy
He tries to fix it without Jeeves' help.
B) One of Bertie's relatives do something stupid or inconvenient to him and/or Jeeves.
Jeeves refuses to help because he's angry at Bertie about something, normally related to clothes.
Bertie makes it worse.
Jeeves fixes everything.
Jeeves already has.However, if you keep it on your bedside table and only read a short story every so often before bed, it's a fantastic collection.
P.G. Wodehouse is the master of farce, and every short story is a gem.
Bertie is a perfect upclass twit and genuinely a good guy.
The omnibus collection of all Jeeves short stories (well, see below) is confectionary of the highest order.
Wodehouse truly was a comic genius.Three caveats:1.
This compliation combines all the Jeeves short stories in the canon.
This means you don't need to buy "The Inimitable Jeeves", "Carry On, Jeeves" or "Very Good, Jeeves", as they are short story collections.
Listing it as "specially selected and introduced by Wodehouse himself" suggests more of a "Greatest hits" package, which is rather deceptive to readers who are likely to get confused and re-purchase collections contained herein!
I just finished re-reading this collection of the Jeeves short stories, which remain gems, and totally refreshing in my diet of books that can be a little heavy going.I went through a phase of preferring the Blandings stories, as I overdosed on Jeeves & Wooster when younger, but have come back to them again after a long break, and I'm so glad I did.
This volume contains all of P.G. Wodehouse's short stories about his famous pair, Bertram Wooster and his valet Reginald* Jeeves.
I always wish, after reading Wodehouse, that I could figure out a way to slip some of Bertie's slang into my daily speech without sounding ridiculous.
The somewhat predictable story structure (Bertie or one of his friends gets into an awful pickle, then it gets more complicated, then Jeeves straightens everything out) and the over-the-top caricatures of characters only add to the reader's enjoyment.
In short, this book is the eel's eyebrows, quite a good egg, and by way of being rather a topper.
But dear P.G. is totally correct in his introduction, you really really shouldn't try and read the whole thing at once (partially 'cause you want to strangle dear Bertie)...
and then, if you're attracted to men, you start wondering what kind of girl **really** is the proper sort for the ol' Wooster pride.
I mean, YOU love Jeeves, of course...
you'd never make the mistakes of Honoria Glossop and try to send him away...
but could you really see yourself as second to Jeeves?
Wonderful book - I'd rather go with the smaller editions, though.

I read this book when I first bought it 11 years ago and loved it then.
I let all these years go by so I could forget all of the stories and I'm glad I did.
Re-reading it now is like reading it for the first time.
These stories are made even better if you've had a chance to see the BBC/PBS mini series featuring Stephen Fry as Jeeves and Hugh Laurie as Bertie Wooster.
If you haven't seen them they are well worth finding from the library (or internet), I've had my copies for years.
Currently reading a story or two each night before bed. Loving these hilarious little gems! I especially love Bertie's silly remarks, such as, "Oh! Ah!" and "Right ho! Right ho! Right ho!" Not sure if this is still typical Brit-speak nowadays or if it ever was, but I love it. I only wish I could say these things in everyday conversation. These stories are ridiculous and read before bed, I've found they've the tendency to creep into your subconscious. Just the other morning, I had a very Jeeves-like dream which gave me a wonderful idea for a story concept.
To be fair, I only got halfway through this omnibus, but I know exactly how the rest of the stories will turn out. It's immensely repetitive, i.e. Wooster finds himself in a conundrum, attempts to fix it himself, fails, then turns to Jeeves who gets him out of it. But then again, I suspect Wodehouse wrote them as entertaining little tales to be told at bedtime. And they serve that exact purpose—the stories I did read were fun morsels of light-hearted humour I gladly imbibed before sleeping.
Wodehouse is a superb author. He writes with an ease that is only occasionally found. I would compare him with an author such as Anne Tyler. These stories are very funny and very clever. Sheer entertainment, but also a good lesson for would be writers particuarly those wanting to write a good short story.John Eliot, author of poetry colection Ssh.
This book is a compilation of the hilarious short stories of the endearingly inept wealthy Wooster and his ingenious and beyond capable gentleman's gentleman Jeeves.  Wooster's vocabulary and perspective in storytelling is what really makes these stories work. Enjoy!
OFFICAIL pro-tier jeeves: 1. jeeves makes an omelette2. aunt agatha takes the count3. jeeves gets aids - haha just abit of contemporary humour for you ;)4. the ordeal of young guppy5.jeeves and the old school chum6. hte one where wooster trips shaquille o’neal at the lakers game
This book is a riot. How did I miss these stories before. I suppose you could get tired of them at some point, but even though I know Jeeves will come through, and Bertie will be saved from catastrophe, I still enjoy the tales. Light and fun.
Bertie gets in a scrape. Jeeves fixes it up. Repeat as necessary.
These stories always make me laugh. I'm half in love with Bertie Wooster and his friends and family.
A fun read of our own B. W.
Perhaps the finest collection of stories every put to paper.
All I can say is Bertie should be damn happy he has Jeeves. I know we are.
Every human being ought to read this collection. A high water mark of comic genius, if you're not chortling you're not paying attention. What ho!
this book is a keeper; anytime I need a lift, I know I can count on hapless Bertie Wooster and his incredible gentleman's gentleman Jeeves to find scrapes to elude.
Probably read some of Plum's short stories in various humourous collections over the years.
(Wake up PBS!)Wake up, Brian.I took the author's advice and I've been reading THE WORLD OF JEEVES on and off, one delicious short story at a time.
Although I've fallen in luv with Aunt Agatha....If you're an aging Boomer like me, and all you've known about the elegant London Clubs is what you read in Ian Fleming, let Wodehouse give you a lighter view.And let him show you what finely crafted comic stories are really like.And let Jeeves solve all your problems.Right Ho!- Brian Alan Burhoewww.CivilizedBears.com
I started reading Jeaves and Wooster because P.G. Wodehouse is Huge Laurie's favorite writer and he said that the stories helped him get through depression.
Little did I know that reading this magnificent collection would be such a fun ride.
Our protagonist is an air-headed but well-meaning idle rich by the name of Bertie Wooster.
While none of his stories shake readers to the core or tug at their heartstrings, they never fail to deliver laughters and they will certainly bring joy to your life.
1) Jeeves Takes Charge2) Jeeves in the Springtime3) Scoring off Jeeves4) Sir Roderick Comes to Lunch
