https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16072529-the-adventure-of-the-retired-colourman
Sherlock Holmes is hired by a retired art supply dealer from Lewisham, Josiah Amberley, to look into his wife’s disappearance.
Amberley wants the two tracked down.Holmes is busy with another case; so he sends Dr. Watson to Lewisham to observe and report, though Watson soon believes this case needs Holmes touch.
Still, he does his best, observing that Amberley is busy painting his house, which seems rather unusual.
He also gets a look at Amberley’s wife’s unused theatre ticket from the night she disappeared.
She had plead a headache, leaving Amberley to go to the theatre alone, and was gone by the time he returned.
The story starts off slow with Mr.Josiah Amberley of Lewisham asking Sherlock Holmes for his assistance to investigate his missing wife Mrs.Amberley and friend Ernest and also claims to have been robbed of his savings. As Sherlock detects foul play through deductive reasoning and the mystery unwinds, the story takes an unpredictable turn towards the end. Are they really missing? And if they are, will he find them and save the money?
:))  "You certainly seem to have met every difficulty," said the inspector. "Of course, he was bound to call us in, but why he should have gone to you I can't understand.""Pure swank!" Holmes answered, "He felt so clever and so sure of himself that he imagined no on could touch him. He could say to any suspicious neighbour, 'Look at the steps I have taken. I have consulted not only the police but even Sherlock Holmes.'"The inspector laughed."We must forgive you your 'even,' Mr. Holmes," said he, "it's a work-manlike a job as I can remember."
Taká rýchlovečka ... nič náročné, ani prevratné, ale volný čas to vyplní :D
The 12th short story in The Case Book of Sherlock Holmes by Arthur Conan Doyle. Sherlock Holmes works on a case of a missing woman. An entertaining mystery.
To kill someone out of jealously is something but to hire a detective to investigate your own crime believing that no one can find out about your genius masterplan is crazy and a bit extreme.
Holmes is hired by a man to solve the mystery of his wife's disappearance. I enjoyed this one and the conclusion.
I'm listening to the audiobook of "The Adventure of the Retired Colourman" only. The story was outstanding, but it was read rather ponderously by Edward Raleigh. I always enjoy Doyle's work, but I think I would have preferred a different voice actor.
The Adventure of the Retired Colourman was a short and somewhat lackluster story. The climax was over very rapidly and the mystery behind the story was short-lived. However, it was macabre at times and serves as a nice quick read.
