https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/169427.The_Fire_Cat
Whilst waiting for my daughter's ballet class to finish I found this 1960's copy in a charity shop for a £1, very happy moment.
I sat in the car and read it from cover to cover and as soon as my daughter got into the car she did the same.
Mrs Goodkind can see that Pickles needs a home and a purpose in life.
After a failed attempt at living with Mrs Goodkind and her timid kitties, Pickles finds his true vocation in life and earns the respect of those around him.
Would highly recommend to those who love simple stories and vintage illustrations.
This book made me cry as I was reading it in the bookstore. Then I showed it to my therapist and it made him cry. (In all fairness, he's pretty easy. But still.) It's about a cat who turns his life around by doing good works. I'm serious. Listen, just read it, ok?
This was one of my favourite books when I was a kid. With its vibrant illustrations, originality and heroic feline main character, it's a book that all ages can enjoy and it's become a classic since the early 1960's, being published all the way through the 2000's in different languages and formats.
I absolutely love this story!
From the first few words--so simple, yet placed together in such a tender and descriptive way--I was a goner!
Nevermind that the illustrations are also so simple, yet so full of character--I want to adopt our spunky spotted cat with the big paws and even bigger dreams.
All the characters are great, Mrs. Goodkind and the firemen and The Chief.
What a lovely story about the joys of finding one's purpose in the world--and how a lack of fulfillment can make one grumpy and unkind to others!
I can't say enough good things about it--so, especially if you are a cat-lover, read it!!!
As I am curled up in bed with a cold, it makes sense to look for things that make me feel good, at least in the emotional sense, since I can't stop my nose from running (oh but I wish I could!)Pickles is a cat who is neither good nor bad, but a bit of each.
Then put in a cat who is trying really hard to be good, the thrills and chills of fires and rescues, and a lot of really great people who love Pickles (and cameos from all the cats in the Cat Club), and you've got a winner.I will likely read this book another hundred times yet in my lifetime, and I will likely love it over and over again.
Then one fateful day, when Pickles found himself stuck in a tree, the local fire department appeared on the scene...Esther Averill's The Fire Cat was one of my childhood favorites, and I must have read and re-read it a hundred times.
As a teaching tool, Averill's simple story manages to offer a keenly observed social commentary, all without ever descending into any sort of didactic display.
The truly great children's authors somehow manage to write stories that are emotionally involving and intellectually stimulating, all with a limited word choice that would stymie an author of adult fiction.
The Fire Cat is a story about a cat named Pickles that lived in a barrel in a large yard next to a big house.
Pickles was a cat with big paws who wanted to do big things but the only thing he knew how to do was chase other cats that came into his yard.
The fireman that helped get Pickles out of the tree took him back to the firestation to see if the Cheif would let him live there with them so he could do big things.
Mrs. Goodkind called the Cheif and said the Pickles would be a good fire cat.
I have to give this 5 stars, because I have never forgotten this book from my childhood. When someone said the title, I said “Pickles!” - who finds his home at the fire station - remembered his name from 40 years ago. (Library)
It's got a spotted cat instead of a dalmatian for the fire department mascot. And the cat wears a fire hat. It's brilliant. Go and read all the Esther Averill forthwith.
Is there a way to give a book more than 5 stars? Because I love this book more than 5 stars worth. I read it constantly as a child, and it's still fun today. Oh, Pickles. What a good cat you are!
My 4 year old loved this book. At the end of the book we looked at each other with tears in our eyes!:) awesome book!
But I had no idea it was part of a larger series of books, the Cat Club series by Esther Averill.
The Fire Cat does not star Jenny Linsky.
In the Fire Cat, readers learn more about Pickles.
There was a time he was a hopeless cat that was a little bit bad and a little bit good.
Pickles most definitely wants to stay.
He wants to prove himself worthy, so he decides to learn by example.
The fire chief is definitely charmed, I imagine cat-loving readers are just as charmed.
The Fire Cat is a feel-good read.
The illustrations are not great, but the book is still around in libraries and schools and has been re-published several times.
Moreover, since cats can sometimes seem so human-like to children (and adults), I think the reader can connect to Pickles and the lessons that Pickles learns in a way that would not be possible were the technique not used.Overall, I enjoyed this little book and think it makes a wonderful addition to family story times.
(Although, as it is 60+ pages long, it might not work as well in other contexts and/or with very young / picture-book readers.)
After being taken in and cared for by Mrs. Goodkind, Pickles tries to behave, but soon reverts to his old ways.
Mrs. Goodkind, ever forgiving and supportive, tells Pickles that he is not good and not bad, but a mixture of both (like everyone in the world).
Pickles is very aware of his behavior, and strives to become something greater than himself.
When he is accepted into the firehouse, he pushes himself to learn all he can, persevering even when things are difficult.
He also learns to be kind to other cats.
He reflects on his past behavior, regretful that he was ever so cruel.
Many level one readers are awkward for read-alouds but not The Fire Cat!
With its engaging text superbly supported by simple but effective illustrations this title works for both early readers and younger children too.
Because he hasn't yet found his life's work!
Pickles is a stray who needs to have his prodigious gifts channeled into meaningful activity.
Next thing you know, Pickles is a model cat-citizen.
Within a limited color palette and using expressionistic perspective, author and illustrator Esther Averill tells the story of a cat who is both bad and good and for whom readers can cheer as he takes charge of his destiny.
"The Fire Cat," is geared toward readers ages 3-8.
Instead, Pickles wants to work in a fire station and help the fireman save people and other cats.
Pickles practices hard to become a fire cat and proves he is worth keeping at the fire station.
A teacher can use the story to teach that in order to do "big things," one has to practice hard and train like pickles did.
It could help students think about "big things" they would like to do one day.
It is a cute story about a homeless cat, Pickles, wanting to do big things in his life with his big paws.
One day after chasing a little cat up a big tree he could not get down and fire fighters had to be called.
The fire fighter got him out of the tree and he asked the fire chief if Pickles could stay at the firehouse.
Pickles did get the opportunity to live at the firehouse and become a firehouse cat.
After much practice and hard work Pickles became a good cat fire fighter.
Recommend for early readers K-2nd grade.
Pickles was living in a barrel and he was the bully of the street.
One day it begins to rain and his neighbor, Mrs. Goodkind, helps Pickles and has him come and live with her.
Well Pickles is not a bad cat, nor is he a good cat.
Finally Pickles ends up living with the fireman and learns that good cats succeed and can be given important jobs.
This is good beginner book for children who can read simple sentences and are ready for chapters.
The chapters are short and the story continues to keep the child drawn in to the story.
What a sweet, funny book. My son just read this aloud to me last night and we laughed and laughed at Pickles' expressions and especially about Pickles thrusting his paw out for the fireman to see. Also, my son was thrilled to notice Jenny Linsky in the fire truck. We both love Jenny and her cameo appearance was a bonus. A classic story about finding a purpose, pursuing your dreams, kindling your compassion, and finding a place where you feel you belong.
I read the Swedish version of this book, "Brand katten". Amazingly I understood a lot of it.A cute story about an orphan cat who is eventually adopted by a firestation after being rescued from being stuck in a tree. The kitty learns how to be a good fire-cat, including sliding down the firepole and riding in the firetruck. Eventually he is called on to rescue another kitty in the very same tree he was stuck in.
What a sweet, funny book. Logan read this aloud to me last night and we laughed and laughed at Pickles' expressions and especially about Pickles thrusting his paw out for the fireman to see. Also, my son was thrilled to notice Jenny Linsky in the fire truck. We both love Jenny and her cameo appearance was a bonus. A classic story about finding a purpose, pursuing your dreams, kindling your compassion, and finding a place where you feel you belong.
Pickles is a bad cat, who wants to be a good cat. So he does what totally makes sense and that is tags along with the men from the firehouse! Oh and he is yellow with black spots, so quite the unique cat! And another of the books from my childhood, so if you have kids...or just like feline fire fighters check this book out, but you don't have to take my word for it! -cue reading rainbow da-da-DA music-
This one of the first books I ever read. It is a testament to the strength of feline endurance and shows that no matter what goes wrong in your life, you can always turn it around and triumph. And the cat is named Pickles. How can you not like a book about a fire cat named Pickles? Some day I want to be just like Pickles.
I loved Pickles the fire cat. My mom used to read this book nightly. It brings back such great memories reading with my mom and it was one of my first books I learned to read. Also...#1 firefighters are hot! #2 I wanted to be a veteranarian back then, but then I found out about animal blood, guts and vomit... no thank you.
I read about "The Fire Cat" here on GoodReads and it felt like the perfect book for my little nephew. I had to read it in Swedish, as the library didn't have the original version. It was just as good as I thought it would be, and now I will order it in English and translate it into Italian for my nephew myself! (He is a 4-year-old aspiring a firefighter).
This is one of my favorite children's books that I read over and over again as a beginner. Pickles is an adventurous cat who wants to be a fire cat at the fire station. With hard work, Pickles accomplishes his dreams and does just that. This book is a simple chapter book for young readers.
Still have my copy from childhood.
Pickles learned his lesson about chasing cats when he worked at the firehouse. He wanted to do big things and he did do big things.
One of my favorites to read with my mom as a kid, its now a favorite of Erin's. Who wouldn't love Pickles?
Another one I remember reading time and time again when I was a child. It's a sweet story about the determination of a cat adopted by a firehouse.
