https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/384786.The_Power_of_the_Powerless
A friend recently mentioned that there's a large photo of Havel at a local blues club, posing with the owner, and I said, "Hovel who?" So, that's full disclosure.And then I read this recently (written by Michael Pollan OF.
COURSE.) in The New York Times Magazine: "Sometimes you have to act as if acting will make a difference, even when you can’t prove that it will.
That, after all, was precisely what happened in Communist Czechoslovakia and Poland, when a handful of individuals like Vaclav Havel and Adam Michnik resolved that they would simply conduct their lives “as if” they lived in a free society.
I am constitutionally incapable of giving any Havel-related materials less than a full five-star rating.
In fact, the totalitarian system will, in all likelihood, retain all power until its end (an end Havel could not foresee), thus any challenge means only that “the center of gravity of any potential political threat shifts to the area of the existential and the prepolitical: usually without any conscious effort, living within the truth becomes the one natural point of departure for all activities that work against the automatism [that is, the ideological power] of the system.”Havel is hopeful that living within the truth has a future, for the simple reason that living within a lie necessarily creates “a deep moral crisis in society.” One result is the formation of such civic intermediary groups as Charter 77, Havel’s main specific touchstone of dissident thought in this essay.
My motivation was the second, which I think is far more important and interesting.Nonetheless, as a historical document, the argument is that the kind of revolution that led to a “post authoritarian” society in Czechoslovakia was neither political nor a rebellion, nor even dissent (which is why Havel refers to people like him as “dissidents”, in quotes).
Today, the mood is grim, either because we recognize the abyss that authoritarianism presents, or because we choose to use raw political power to respond to our grim perception of reality.
Absolutely brilliant and precise analysis of the post-totalitarian system. It is amazing how much of these thoughts are universal and could be applied even now. The immense power of humble living in truth could not be explained better.Furthermore, last three chapters are pretty much ahead of its own time, and ahead of today's time, as is true with lot of good 20th century philosophy.
Je-li z těch všech tisíců bezejmenných lidí, kteří se pokoušejí žít v pravdě, a z těch milionů, kteří by v pravdě žít chtěli, ale nemohou (třeba jen proto, že dík náhodné vnější souhře okolností by to v jejich případě předpokládalo desateronásobek odvahy než u leckterých, kteří tento krok učinili), je-li tedy z tohoto množství vybráno – a ještě ke všemu tak náhodně – několik desítek osob a je-li z nich učiněna zvláštní společenská kategorie, pak takový postup vytváří nutně úplně zkreslený obraz celkové situace: buď navozuje dojem, že „disidenti“ jsou jakási prominence, jakási exkluzivní skupina „chráněných zvířat“, kterým je dovoleno to, co je ostatním zakázáno, a které si vláda dokonce snad pěstuje jako živoucí doklad své velkorysosti, anebo podporuje naopak iluzi, že když je jen tak málo těch, co jsou trvale nespokojeni, a když se jim ani tak moc neděje, znamená to, že všichni ostatní jsou vlastně spokojeni: kdyby nebyli spokojeni, byli by přece také „disidenty“!
يمكن مقدرتش استوعب كل المعلومات الموجوده في الكتاب بسبب الترجمه السيئه بس اهم جزئيه اتعلمتها منه انه مقللش من اي حراك او احتجاج زي اعتصام عمال او مظاهرات طلابية لانه مهما كان صغير ممكن يكون هو الطريق للتغيير
Almost 40 years later, 30% is still the benchmark.)Thirty years ago, Havel's essay showed me the similarities between the "post-totalitarian" regime he struggled under and our "post-democratic" system.Aside from the collapse of Soviet Bloc, not much has changed in 30 years.I picked up this essay again after last November's rise of The Swamp Thing.
After writing much about the "post-totalitarian" societies of the Communist states, he writes knowingly of the powerlessness found in the Western, "post-democratic" states.There is a certain satisfaction rereading this essay now, knowing how things unfolded in Eastern Europe.
Great essay. It reminds me of Aung San Suu Kyi's "It's not power that corrupts, but fear."
There is a lot in here, and it is very profound, and I kind of wish I had done it in a discussion group, so I could learn from it with other people.
"There are some things worth suffering for." Havel quotes Jan Patocka.
I don't want to suffer, but I want to hold on to my individuality and authenticity and my soul more, and there is power in people doing that.
That was the other most important thing.
I am glad it's online, because hard copies can be hard to find.
Havel's essay lays the groundwork to inspire all of us to facilitate change in the world by living in the truth instead of accepting the lies of authority. This was so revealing to me that it changed my world view significantly. I couldn't recommend this book more highly.
64 stránek plných skvělého a detailního rozboru, kde můžeme nahlédnout do post-totalitního systému (s tím označením velmi sympatizuji, stejně jako s tím post-demokratickým), včetně analýzy pojmů jako opozice či disidentství.A není to jen pohled do minulosti.
Naopak si dle mého názoru i dnes můžeme brát z těchto stránek příklad.
Jedná se stále v konečném důsledku o tu stejnou "vyšší odpovědnost", kterou bychom v sobě měli probudit a ne spoléhat na to, že "něco takového se u nás už nemůže opakovat" apod., což je dle mého názoru velký omyl a první krok k tomu, že se to stát může.Moc bezmocných je jedna z důležitých a svým způsobem stále aktuálních knih, které si zaslouží naši pozornost.
Se preocupa sinceramente porque el cambio de modelo sea una imitación de la crisis sutil y profunda del hombre bajo el sistema democrático parlamentario de Occidente, es por eso que toma las palabras de Heidegger sobre "otro pensamiento" y de que sólo "un Dios puede salvarnos" al decir: "La crisis planetaria de la condición humana afecta tanto al mundo occidental como al nuestro: en Occidente asume sólo formas sociales y políticas distintas.
As someone who studies political psychology, I feel like I could write an entire essay almost as long as Havel's own on how Havel's insights into what he calls post-totalitarian regimes applies to my own research interests.
I couldn't help but think by the end that the U.S. is, like communist Czechoslovakia, a post-totalitarian system.
That is, a political system where the population isn't coerced into obeying an oppressive regime--as people usually are under dictatorships--but a system where the population is convinced through adherence to an ideology--for Havel, communism; for us in the U.S., perhaps, neo-liberalism--that the current state of affairs is the best state of affairs.
Đáng đọc không phải chỉ vì lối viết quá lôi cuốn, thể hiện kiến thức uyên thâm và nhân cách đạo đức của một công dân tự do đúng nghĩa của tác giả mà không lời nào có thể diễn tả hết được, mà còn đáng đọc bởi nó giúp bản thân độc giả phản tư lại chính xã hội và cuộc sống của mình, nhất là đối với những người đang sống trong một xã hội "toàn trị" tinh vi, mà tác giả gọi là xã hội "hậu toàn trị".

بالنسبة لي وأعتقد لأغلب العرب المهمومين بحال أوطانهم يعد هذا الكتاب رائعة لا تقارن بكتاب آخر.
كثير من الظروف الاجتماعية والاقتصادية متشابهة.
أكثر ما ربطني بهذا الكتاب هو تركيزه الكامل على دور المواطنين العاديين في صنع التغيير أو قتله.
لا يتكلم عن نشاط حركات سياسية أو أحزاب أو ما شابه، إنه يتكلم كيف يعتمد النظام كاملا على عيش مواطنيه في الكذب، وكيف يمكن للحياة في الحقيقة وحدها أن تهد أركان هذا النظام المؤسس على الكذب.هناك نزعة أخلاقية ودينية قوية في الكتاب رغم أني لا أعرف توجهات الكاتب الدينية، ولا أظن أنه متدين أو ما شابه، إلا أن النزعة الإنسانية في الكتاب قد تخطت حدودها المادية، وأقبلت على معرفة قوة الحقيقة وآثارها الملموسة في هد أركان النظام.
Pohodlnost není řešení. „V epoše krize metafyzických a existenciálních jistot, v epoše lidského vykořenění, odcizení a ztráty smyslu světa musí mít nutně tato ideologie zvláštní hypnotickou přitažlivost: bloudícímu člověku nabízí snadno dostupný „domov“: stačí ji přijmout a rázem je vše opět jasné, život dostává smysl a z jeho horizontu mizí tajemství, otázky, neklid a osamělost. Za tento levný „domov“ platí ovšem člověk draho: abdikací na vlastní rozum, svědomí a odpovědnost.“
قرأت نصف الكتاب و لم أستطع إكماله الترجمة سيئة للغاية
كنت متوقع ان اقراء كتاب جيد ...ولكن للاسف جمل الكتاب كلها مفككة ...اعتقد ان الترجمة سيئة جدا رغم ان المترجم هو خالد البلتاجى الا ان الكتاب كله لاتستطيع ان تستفيد منه بصفحة واحدة على الاقل
الكتاب يحتوي بعض الأفكار العبقرية، ولكن الترجمة العربية في غاية السوء، لا تكاد تخرج بفقرة أو اثنتين مفهومتان تمامًا!
Eppure quello che Havel denunciava riguardo il totalitarismo di matrice sovietica, valeva anche per l’ideologia del consumismo che si stava vivendo dall’altra parte della Cortina, in Occidente.Scrive Havel: “Qualche volta è necessario toccare il fondo della miseria per poter capire la verità, così come dobbiamo spingerci fino al fondo del pozzo per riuscire a scorgere le stelle… Nelle società democratiche, in cui l’uomo non è così palesemente e così brutalmente violentato, questo cambiamento fondamentale della politica è ancora lontano, e forse quando le cose peggioreranno la politica ne scoprirà la necessità.
Havel calls the life lived in communist run Czechoslovakia and the things that the population actually does that ends up giving support to their own repression as "living a lie".
However it is this action that ends up supporting the system that is an affront to the true way the grocer really wants to live.
He points out a judicial system that gives the appearance to the population of the protection of the people, but is actually is a system of repression of free speech and human rights, for example jailing a person for printing and handing out pamphlets not approved by the government.
I observe that it has become very popular in the age of Trump to define oneself as being “anti-trump”, part of “the resistance”, “operation 45”, etc.
Vaclav Havel makes a very good argument for how stupid this is.
Resistance is only defined in terms of what you are resisting.
The dissent.Don’t live to be against what you believe is false; live to be for what you believe is true.
There is much greater power in standing for what you believe than in standing against what you don’t believe.
It’s a subtle distinction yet it makes all the difference in the world.
I only read Havel's essay "The Power of the Powerless". While it was a more difficult read, it was an intriguing take on the communist system with its symbols, the behaviours of those caught living with the system, the system's own vulnerabilities to dissent and legal challenge, and Havel's own conclusion that a democratic system isn't necessarily the best alternative.
A profound philopolitical primer on the human situation. Poignant, pragmatic, and perpetually relevant.Just brilliant. Please read for free, here:http://www.vaclavhavel.cz/showtrans.p...
الكتاب يبدو معقدا ربما بسبب طبيعة الحديث عن الشيوعية أو بسبب الترجمة وفي أجزاء منه خاصة فقط بالتجربة التشيكية
The Greatest Book against Communism.
Required reading for anyone protesting today's political environment. It is a clever essay, and available on-line for free as well.
I přes to že to bylo psané za jiných podmínek a vzhledem k jinému zřízení, obsahuje mnoho myšlenek, které jsou stále aktuální.
