https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/355697.All_Quiet_on_the_Western_Front
There are already thousands of reviews for this deeply moving and heartbreaking book here on Goodreads, and I don't know that I could add anything new.
It simply broke my heart.
However I do feel really strongly that I should describe the vivid imagery that I'm left with.
Bright red poppies in bloodied fields Where death stalked its victims.
It cared not for age, creed, or nationality What would they have achieved in life, These young men, with so much yet to experience, So many dreams to fulfil  If duty hadn't called, and they hadn't answered When the sun set for one final time It set on the lives they never lived
(Plus, it's so much easier to write negative reviews than positive ones, and I have absolutely nothing bad to say about this book.) There are several heart-rending passages that I expect will stick with me for a long time, though, and that I feel the need to mention: Paul Bäumer's leave, during which he finds it nearly impossible to relate normally to his family after his experiences on the front; Paul's time in a shell hole with French soldier Gérard Duval; the brief interlude Paul and his comrades spend with a group of French girls, and how the gal with whom he'd been paired treats him in the end; and, of course, the scene near the book's end involving Stanislaus Katczinsky, easily "All Quiet"'s most interesting character.
It's like the most depressing drinking game ever.I wish, after spending many months reading around this subject, that I could pick out some obscure classic to recommend (and perhaps I will still find some, because I intend to keep reading about 1914–18 throughout 2014–18), but I have to say that this novel, famously one of the greatest war novels, is in fact genuinely excellent and left quite an impression on me, despite my trench fatigue.
All in all a very powerful and moving piece of writing: if I had to recommend just one contemporary novel from the First World War, so far this is probably it.
The greatest war novel?Maybe.This was one of the first books that made me think that even though I wanted to be a writer someday, maybe I did not have what it takes. This was a sharp, swift kick in the gut; a none too subtle reminder that there are somber, very real and poignant moments captured in literature that escape petty categorization and cynicism, there are real moments that cannot be trivialized and placed on a genre specific bookshelf. Powerful.
It has to be the defining novel of World War I, told from the point of view of a German soldier fighting in the trenches of France. This is not a novel of romance, intrigue, and adventure; it is a stark and frightingly realistic description of what it must have been like trying to survive from one day to the next, and almost always failing. Difficult and disturbing to read, it nevertheless is a narrative of how war is horrible, and hopefully why the telling of it may help deter future wars.
When he presses himself down upon her long and powerfully, when he buries his face and his limbs deep in her from the fear of death by shell-fire, then she is his only friend, his brother, his mother; he stifles his terror and his cries in her silence and her security; she shelters him and releases him for ten seconds to live, to run, ten seconds of life; receives him again and often forever."When Paul goes home on leave, he finds that the life he once knew and loved no longer has the same meaning.
I would like to weep and be comforted too, indeed I am little more than a child; in the wardrobe still hang short, boy’s trousers – it is such a little time ago, why is it over?"I don’t know if a book exists that so effectively conveys the meaningless of war.
It meant 20,000 letters sent home to parents, siblings, wives and girlfriends, all with the same sad news ..."Dulce Et Decorum Est Pro Patria Mori", that old lie, which made soldiers die by the millions, or suffer life-altering mutilations, forever remembered through The Poems Of Wilfred Owen, is put into brutal contrast with the reality of a soldier on the German side.
From its opening in the trenches with the German Army in WWI to an end replete with utter hopelessness, Erich Maria Remarque's All Quiet on the Western Front presents a devastating picture of a soldier at war.
In fact, despite the images we associate with WWI (such as the gas attacks and brutal conditions in the trenches), there is something very modern about All Quiet on the Western Front.
In effect, a generation is destroyed by the war.In trying to make sense of the war, Remarque explores the powerlessness of soldiers on the front lines.
During this re-read, I paused not only in appreciation of what soldiers and their families suffer during war, but also for all the great teachers who spend their days trying to inspire students to have Perspective and Big Ideas and to Think Critically.
I was reminded of this quote from Pat Conroy: "If there is more important work than teaching, I hope to learn about it before I die." I've been thinking a lot about my freshman humanities course because All Quiet on the Western Front was recently chosen as a Common Read for the college campus where I work, and I'm helping to plan the program that will hopefully inspire hundreds of other students to read this book.
667. Im Westen nichts Neues = A l'ouest rien de novreau = All Quiet on The Western Front = In the West Nothing New, Erich Maria Remarque (1898 - 1970)All Quiet on the Western Front (German: Im Westen nichts Neues, lit. 'In the West Nothing New') is a novel by Erich Maria Remarque, a German veteran of World War I. The book describes the German soldiers' extreme physical and mental stress during the war, and the detachment from civilian life felt by many of these soldiers upon returning home from
‭‎Im Westen nichts Neues = A l'ouest rien de novreau = All Quiet on The Western Front = In the West Nothing New, Erich Maria Remarque (1898 - 1970)All Quiet on the Western Front (German: Im Westen nichts Neues, lit.
'In the West Nothing New') is a novel by Erich Maria Remarque, a German veteran of World War I.
… all the memories that come … are always completely calm … They are soundless apparitions that speak to me, with looks and gestures silently, without any word … They are quiet in this way because quietness is so unattainable for us now … Their stillness is the reason why these memories of former times do not awaken desire so much as sorrow – a vast, inapprehensible melancholy. Once we had such desires- but they return not. They are past, they belong to another world that is gone from us.4  Rema
But because they each have their own inner world, they can communicate their thoughts and memories and emotions to Paul and to each other.The outer world of the Great WarPaul Baumer’s outer world, even this world of war, includes many different human experiences and their corresponding play on the emotions – comprised as it is of … medical care in military hospitals … roasting a young pig, with all the trimmings … seriously considering shooting a young fellow soldier … being under bombardment … amputations by the bushel … bodies blown apart … swimming a river nude, clothing held high, to meet French lasses … inheriting coats, boots and other belongings from friends no longer in need … being shelled in a graveyard … rain and mud, being wet for days on end … constant lice infestations … making love to a strange young woman … a nude legless torso in a tree … guarding miserable food from rats … injured soldiers drowning in water-filled shell holes … the hell and humor of boot camp … cadging or stealing food … playing cards … screams of agony from wounded men and horses.
I learnt about it much later.Anyway I finally read the novel and experienced why some people call it “The Greatest War Novel of All Time.” The novel tells the story of Paul Baumer, a 19 year old serving in the German Army during World War I.
Incidentally, the author, Erich Maria Remarque, himself had served in the German Army during the same war, and was wounded five times.
I will end my review with Paul’s feelings –  “I am young, I am twenty years old; yet I know nothing of life but despair, death, fear, and fatuous superficiality cast over an abyss of sorrow.
When I was trying to organize some of my stuff packed away in the basement, I found my battered old copy and felt the immediate need to read it again.
That gives you an idea of how highly I regard this book.My new copy says on the cover that it’s the greatest war novel of all time.
Only a madman or Dick Cheney could send troops into combat after reading this.Paul is a 19 year old German soldier in World War I.
Συγκλονιστικό!
Can humor be incorporated into a book with such a serious message?
This thin book perfectly captures- war in the trenches- mustard gas- being home on leave- medical care on the front - the strength of comradeship- rational and irrational fear- our innate will to livenot only with factual content, but more importantly with the emotional impact on the individual in the war.
Also the impact on those not there in the trenches, not doing the fighting, but in heart out there with the combatants.This book points an incriminatory finger at all of us who let wars continue.
I will definitely be reading more by Remarque.
Reading the book, you get a good feel for what it must have been like to be a soldier in World War I.
All Quiet on the Western Front demonstrates quite unequivocally how scarred the soldiers emerged from the trenches, because, as one of Paul's classmates says halfway through the book, 'Two years of rifle fire and hand-grenades -- you can't just take it all off like a pair of socks afterwards.' It shows how alienated the veterans of trench warfare felt from those at home, who could not for the life of them understand what it was like to experience the things they were going through.
If there was anything evil, it was war.I think most of us moderately decent human beings come to the same conclusion sooner or later.
After living permanently under the shadow of the Grim Reaper for years, Paul knows better.Yes, that’s the way they think, these hundred thousand Kantoreks!
But so long as it is there it will seek its own way out, heedless of the will that is within me.This is the ultimate result of war – human beings living this zombielike existence, this living death.***If there is only one book on war that you read, let this be it.
Paul Baumer needs you to see things from his perspective.
Paul is a German soldier, posted on the Western Front during World War I.
Paul’s world view has been changed in significant ways.On the front Paul is consumed with death.
For Paul it’s no longer about lobbing grenades or shooting your foe from a distance.
It’s become eerily and inescapably personal.Paul is the universal soldier.
Paul would like you to see things from his point of view, step in his shoes; so countries, armies, soldiers, men can avoid war in the future.This was a buddy read with Ashley *Hufflepuff Kitten*.
ارجوكم اسمعوا صرختي هذه..ارجوكم انصتوا.." كل شيئ هادئ في الميدان الغربي "..نعم هدوءا تاما مبشرا..فرجاءا لا تخرقوا الهدنة واحترموها..فنحن نريد السلام..ماذا ؟..نعم..نعم..آه..فهمت ما تعنيه أنا ميت..هذا صحيح..و لكن من قال لك أني كنت حيا ؟..هيا..هيا اقلب جسدي..هل رأيت ؟..قلت لك..هل رأيت هدوئي ؟..هل رأيت انبساط وجهي ؟ هل شاهدت شكلي و كأني مستغرق في النوم ؟ هل رأيت كم أنا مسرور ؟..نعم..مسرور لأنني ما قتلت أو مت الآن..فأنا مت مئات المرات قبل هذه..مت عندما خطوت أول خطوة خارج المدرسة..مت عندما خطوت أول خطوة داخل المعسكر..مت عند أول رصاصة أطلقتها..مت عندأول شظايا قنبلة مرت بجانبي..مت عندما قتلت أول إنسان..مت عندما رأيت أصدقائي يقتلون و يجرحون و تبتر أعضاؤهم..مت عندما مات ذلك الطفل الصغير بداخلي ..أما الآن فإنني قد استرحت..و مسرور لأن الحرب ستنتهي..و أرجوا أن تنتهي .
This is the second book that I've very nearly given five stars this year.
The horrors of war are laid bare and every single thought that passed through every single soldier, regardless of nationality, during that war are right here in these pages.
It doesn't matter whether the protagonist Paul is German, or French, or British, each and every single one of them felt these exact words during that conflict and it is such a hit to the heart that it brings emotions that even poetry cannot.Why didn't I give it five stars?
Formal and informal schooling, formal and informal teachers - the narrator as a school boy earning his book money through coaching other boys - and as a narrator what is he doing but coaching the reader - take cover, keep an eye out for extra food, a wound can send you home, but sometimes too far home, most importantly he teaches us that the student learns the lessons they are taught, not perhaps the formal subject of the lesson, but certainly the informal lesson provided by the teaching style.
"I am young, I am twenty years of age; but I know nothing of life except despair, death, fear, and the combination of completely mindless superficiality with an abyss of suffering. I see people being driven against one another, and silently, uncomprehendingly, foolishly, obediently and innocently killing one another. I see the best brains in the world inventing weapons and words to make the whole process that much more sophisticated and long-lasting. And watching this with me are all my contemp
"I am young, I am twenty years of age; but I know nothing of life except despair, death, fear, and the combination of completely mindless superficiality with an abyss of suffering.
Instead it tells the story of young men, barely more than children, and the horrors that they saw, the horrors that they carried out, and all that they endured during World War I.
On some table, a document is signed by some people that none of us knows, and for years our main aim in life is the one thing that usually draws the condemnation of the whole world and incurs its severest punishment in law.
When he presses himself down upon her long and powerfully, when he buries his face and his limbs deep in her from the fear of death by shell-fire, then she is his only friend, his brother, his mother; he stifles his terror and his cries in her silence and her security; she shelters him and releases him for ten seconds to live, to run, ten seconds of life; receives him again and often for ever.”The war has changed the values and priorities in man’s life – instead of learning the art of love and living one had to learn the skill of staying alive for however a short while longer.Erich Maria Remarque was a humanist who could vividly portray the atrocity of war in all its terrors.“I am young, I am twenty years old; yet I know nothing of life but despair, death, fear, and fatuous superficiality cast over an abyss of sorrow.
This book is an extremely powerfully written book highlighting many of the horrors the men who fought in WWI experienced.
They enlist with the bravado of the young, fighting for their country, a sense of adventure that once in the trenches they quickly lose.The nightmare that was trench warfare, seeing your friends killed and many times not sure where your next bit of food would come from all leas to disillusionment and eventually that those fighting on the other side were the same as you.
The Power of Words in Depicting WarBased on the real life war experiences of its author, this novel is the most vivid I've read on the horrors of war.
It's certainly the best-known book about the atrocities of trench warfare in World War I.
This combination of words, war and brevity make this a massive gut punch of a book that I hope is required reading in all military academies and strongly suggested reading for all commanders-in-chief.
A stinging reminder—yes, we apparently need one—every soldier is a human being with hopes, dreams, love, and peccadilloes, as well as a family and people who care deeply.Highly recommended, maxi-potent read.
Excellent- A mesmerizing and vivid account of war.I bought this novel as an audio book for $2.95 on Audible's daily deal and firstly I have to say the narrator was excellent but after a few pages I realized I just had to have the physical book as the writing was so beautiful I needed to have the book in my hand and re-read some of the wonderfully constructed sentances.This is a story about Paul, a young German soldier who goes to war along with some of his comrades to fight for his country.
"Terror can be endured if one simply ducks"A spellbinding portrait of the atrocities experienced by the young population who fight to defend their country. I phrased it such because although this book is a poignant description of WWI, the events are experienced today; just update the technology. I can never know what my friends have gone through on active duty, but if it's even half of this inhumanity, I will never look at them the same. Our soldiers are our true super heroes. Never forgetAudio reread #99
Προχθές ήμασταν ακόμη στη φωτιά, σήμερα κάνουμε το χαζό και ζούμε όπως έρχεται. Αύριο θα ξαναγυρίσουμε στο χαράκωμα. Πραγματικά, όμως, τίποτα δε λησμονούμε. Όσο βρισκόμαστε στην εκστρατεία, οι περασμένες μέρες του μετώπου πέφτουν σαν πέτρες στα βάθη του είναι μας. Γιατί είναι πάρα πολύ βαριές και δεν αντέχουμε να τις φέρνουμε στο νου μας. Αν το κάναμε, θα καταστρεφόμασταν. Γιατί το 'χω προσέξει αυτό: Η φρίκη είναι υποφερτή όσο περιορίζεσαι να σκύβεις το κεφάλι, σκοτώνει όμως σαν τη συλλογιέσαι.
Text: 5 stars Audio: 3 stars I have been musing over how exactly I want to approach my first encounter with this well known WWI classic told from the perspective of a young German soldier.
What I Liked :1) A perspective on the Great War that focuses on the soldiers and doesn't turn out to be a romance.
What I Didn't Like 1) The audio performance.
Call me crazy BUT I would have assumed that the narrator would have a German accent since the perspective is from a German soldier.
Often the narrators of audio adopt the accents of their characters.
I have always had an interest in the first World War, as I was never really taught anything about it in school, it was always the second World War that was covered,but yet the first is so important.What I liked about this book in particular, is the way in which we hear the thoughts from each soldier, regardless of nationality.
This was a grim, devastating read, and it definitely toyed with my emotions, but there was something that prevented me from completely loving it and giving it five stars, and I'm not even sure what that was.
