https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/576666._And_Ladies_of_the_Club
It's been years since I read this book, and I've been reflexively putting on list of favorites for years.
I thought it time to re-read.
This time, the poor editing and the plethora of typos drove me nearly to distraction.
I went out and got a newer edition half way through the read, hoping against hope that it would be better.
I don't know if I can articulate exactly why I love this book so, but it has something to do with the way it brings the relentlessness of time to the forefront of my consciousness, and the way it grounds me in humanity.
My favorite book of all time. It's about everyday life in an Ohio town from the end of the Civil War through the Depression. The book covers the lives of the ladies and their families in a literary club. It deals with their personal relationships that seem so real, it makes you feel like you're there. A very long book with over 1100 pages, but well worth the read. When you are finished you are wishing for more.
Having read about this supposed "Gone with the Wind" style epic which took the author fifty years to complete, I had to order it from a used book dealer to get a copy.
it did take fifty years to write, the author was born in the late 1890s, and the story itself begins as the American Civil War has come to an end and concludes prior to WWII.
Both are historical fiction, both share an uncomfortable relationship with stereotypes, both illuminate a challenging time in American history and both tell in depth tales about a vast cast of characters.
I drank in the lives of the characters, and then the characters’ children.
I loved quiet, introspective Anne Gordon because I saw my reflection in her, and I equally loved spunky, spirited Sally because I did not.
Thomasina Ballard’s romance with the piano teacher, and the spinsterly Eliza, the girl who first acts so well and then becomes a mother and scorns all women who act, “Shaney” and her unrequited love for Johnny Gordon; Johnny’s love for his ice queen of a wife….
I saw life lived from age 18 to age 86, and how the characters’ perspectives changed with time.
And I saw life mapped out.
I was on bedrest for my 2nd pregnancy, my first ended in miscarriage.
It took almost my entire pregnancy to read this book.
I would lay there on the couch, w/this big, fat heavy book resting on my stomach & the baby would kick it, so I would try to find another position.
I loved this book & was sad when it ended.
I saw Ms Santmyer interviewed on TV from the rest home where she was living.
She died in February 1986.
She was 88 at the time the book was published as a Book-of-the-Month Club selection & died at the age of 90.
Sometimes I wonder what it is about certain books - or parts of books that cause them to stay with us many years after we'ver read them. It's been at least 10 years since I read this book - yet I still remember details of it. There are a number of books I've read since that I'd be hard pressed to tell you much about at all.
I read this book soon after it came out and still have my beat up hardback copy of the book.
I know several people that were unable to get into this book, but it seems like if you like it, you actually love it.
The author tracks the lives of two young women (recent graduates of a female academy in a small Ohio town)from shortly after the Civil War through the first decades of the twentieth century.
The story of the women (as well as the small town) is told through the activities of a women's reading club.
This is a book I've reread many times.
I can't pin it down precisely, but I have always loved this book.
Not just a book that ends with a wedding or a major climactic event.
It follows women through their lives, from childhood friends through their developing relationships with each other and their time as wives, mothers, grandmothers, widows.
And the characters really seem to evolve and develop and grow more definitive and rich as the time passes.
So many books seem to focus on one main crisis with one specific solution or reaction by a character - and so many of them focus on crises in youth or young adulthood.
I enjoyed this book thoroughly. What I loved best was the passing of time in the characters' lives. We follow them from the time they are young women, on through adulthood and to their deaths. Mom recommended this book to me. I read this book ONLY on my lunch breaks as part of a bet because it was so long, one of my co-workers didn't believe I could finish it in a certain time period and only in 1 hour/work day. I won, he had to buy me a Coke or something like that.
I know exactly where I was when I began to read this book. I was in Kensington Gardens in London on a long awaited trip to England. Yet, sitting there, I was already so engrossed I didn't want to put this book down!Yes, it's long, and the action is limited. It's character study, not a Tom Clancy book. Give it a chance and you will get involved with the characters.I still find this as engrossing on re-reads as I did 20 years ago. Well worth the time.
While there was a primary and secondary set of characters, the book covered the lives of many people with their normal tragedies and triumphs, but not really one core story and certainly no climax or resolution.#3 I have been struggling to come to grips with what this book was about.
In going over in my mind from the beginning to the end what stood out, I came to realize that this is a book about death.
I finished this too long book because it was chosen as the summer read by the book group I joined about a year ago.
They like a long book for summer.
And yes, every one of those pages matters.This magnificent book is a series of portraits of the changes in a small town in Ohio from the end of the Civil War into the 20th century.
As the country moves into a golden age following the Civil War, the ladies of a small Ohio town (known for its women's college) decide to form an intellectual club for the women.
Two of their charter members are Sally and Anne, best friends who have just graduated from the college and are about to be married to handsome, prosperous young men.
Okay - this is a gem!!! Read it for the first time at 18 yrs. of age, re-read every couple of years since.Each time I like it for different reasons as the novel takes you through a few generations of families in the 1800's.The women are really really well developed - not just the main character - ALL of them.Enjoy!
Growing up only a few counties from the southwestern Ohio setting of this story added to my interest.
I would love this book no matter where I was from.
It's usually packaged to look like a romantic novel and there is an element of that, but this is a meticulously researched historical novel.
The people and relationships are so realistic that it's a satisfying read for anyone.
You'll laugh, you'll cry.
Run, don't walk, to get a copy of this book.Suggestion: Twice now, I've read Gone With the Wind, and immediately after finishing it, picked up Ladies.
Wind covers 1861-1873, Ladies 1868-1932.
It's about a group of ladies who create a Women's Club right after the Civil War, and Helen Hoover Santmyer does a great job recreating the era and imagining the relationships among these women.
I'm glad that I have another 700 pages that I get to spend with these women -- I'll let you know my rating when I finish the book.O.K.
I was sad to leave the ladies behind, but the typos and editing errors were driving me crazy!
Former copy editors should read this book with caution.
I had to go back and re-read it to see what exactly had happened, but that's more a fault of my wandering mind than the story.There are many families in the story and toward the end I wasn't able to keep up with who married who and all their children, grandchildren and great grandchildren.
By the time you wonder what's happening with someone, you're back into their lives and catching up.American politics was a continuing background story in the book.
I hear much about the decline of the church in this 21st century, but I see more acceptance of all people in today's believers than I read about in history.When I came to the end of the book, I was satisfied.
The amount of death and destruction in the second half was really just a realistic amount that I am not used to seeing in fiction, especially chick-lit!I believe I caught a glimpse of the author, both in the main character, Anne, and in the young novelist, Tess Stevens.
As the author wrote this book over a period of 50 years, Anne's meditations on growing old probably reflected Santmeyer's own feelings about her aging process.
Tess notes that she wants to begin writing a sweeping saga in 1930...which is probably about when Helen began writing "...And Ladies of the Club." It would be gratifying to know more about the history of the author and find correlations between her real life experiences and that of her characters.
I liked the characters, and I liked the insight that the book gave me to the timelessness of women's relationships with each other.
I recognized some of my friends and frienemies in these characters.
The women in the book were united at first only by their education, and their interest in joining together to form a club to learn about books and authors.
Over the course of their lifetimes, members of the club come and go.
Some members of the club are just that - no greater relationship is ever formed.
Some members are hard to get along with.
I really enjoyed this book despite it being long, with big pages and small print.
I appreciated the passage through time with the changes in politics, fashion, and technology.
I also enjoyed the variety of characters and their relationships.
My favorite character was Anne.
I also liked the Rausches, Sally and Ludwig, who seemed to work well together as a couple.
I especially liked the political side of Ludwig, and the way he cared about those who worked for him.
Most of all I enjoyed the women's club, and the ability of those women to keep it going all those years.
This epic spans the years immediately after the end of the Civil War to just before the meltdown of the Depression.
There are many characters, but only one decent human being in the bunch, Anne Cochran Gordon.
At least one woman intentionally spread hateful gossip that led to a decent marriage falling apart.
The conservative slant is so steep, one could worry about these folks sliding off the pages.
As noted before, I read the book when it was published in the early 80s.
The second read was disastrously unsatisfying.
Plus I think I got tendonitis from holding this heavy 1200 pages for three weeks.
Santmyer's grasp of the human condition is glorified by the lovely way she writes.
Putting together a saga like this is difficult, considering how many different characters she stops to visit on the way.
Santmyer introduces those elements so gently that the reader is educated without their knowledge.
Like Margaret Mitchell, Santmyer didn't write her masterpiece consecutively.
You read every word because you just don't want to miss anything.
Would have had a five star rating if I could be certain that the modern reader, now accustomed to the ease of electronic reading technology, could appreciate this masterpiece as much now.
At 1400 pages, I wasn't sure I would finish, but I'm proud to say I did.
the book starts when Sally & Anne graduate from high school at the end of the Civil War, and it ends with their deaths in 1930.
we get to know 3 or 4 generations of several families in Waynesboro, Ohio, and see how they are affected by various political and historical events.
Sally and Anne are charter members of the Waynesboro Woman's Club, and the book is organized around the club's yearly calendar.Recommended to all who like historical fiction and/or family sagas.
It's not an action-filled page-turner, though, which is what I first thought.
So, I loved this book the first time I read and am now re-reading it. It is long and rather involved as it covers the lives of small town Ohioans in post Cival War America. It really has it all--politics, history, marital struggles, rebelious children. Don't be put off by the size of the book, it is without a doubt worth the read.
This is a history of the members of a book club from the book clubs inception until the last of the original members dies. This could be boring except the time is immediately after the Civil War ends. The book spans 60 years and the characters are wonderfully real.
Every year one of the main characters, Sally Rausch, liked to have a Christmas play in her home, performed by the club members, attended by the husbands, followed by a sit down dinner.
It all just seemed like a variety of tempests in a teapot to this reader.The author can be seen in the character of Miss Theresa Stevens, who is the only published woman in the book.
We learn that Miss Stevens plans to write a saga about several generations of life in a small midwestern town.
The plot line, centered around a small Ohio town from the mid 1800s to the early 1900s, leaves you feeling like you were there and the characters are real and compelling.
The author does an excellent job of getting in each character's head with a personal honesty and a historical honesty.
At the same time, she presents view points (women's roles and rights, for example) that were common at the time without overly apologizing for them.
I really appreciated that.Interestingly, it's not the plot details that make this book so long, but the historical details.
The decades that Ms Santmyer spent writing this book are obvious from the wonderful narrative.The story follows two women who come of age just as the Civil War comes to a close.
Though the two women remain prominent throughout the story, others of the Book Club play equally important roles.
This more than just a reflection on the lives of two women, it is a journey through America's passing from its more primitive time, into the advent of the modern age of steam and engine power, electricity, telephones, radios, and all that we now find rather insignificant.
Follows two ladies--and one in particular--who start a book club and lending library in their fictional Ohio town not long after the end of the Civil War. Follows them, their families, friends, loves, and losses--and their politics--into the next century.
Their heads are filled up with worries and concerns like ours are, but their assumptions about life, love, and the way things are, are just a little different.
The book reads like she has experienced life lived the way she wrote about it.
It wasn't the only thing she wrote, but it made her famous late in life.
I felt as if I were an additional best friend along with the two main characters, and I loved following all the realistic details of their lives as they matured from teens all the way to octogenarians.
In addition to presenting superb character development, the book is also an excellent portrait of life in small town America from the post-Civil War years to the 1930s.
Despite my passionate recommendations, I'm afraid it proved too long as a challenge for my circle of readers in "real life." What a shame because all those details work to make the book the gem it is.
I love this book.
It is the only Helen Hooven Santmyer novel I've read and now am anxious to dive into a few more.
When first read, I found the women and their relationships with each other intriguing and envious.
Now, years later, having had my own book club, intact for 15 years, I'm anxious to reread this one.
I was later surprised to read that the author wrote it when quite elderly, and that she was a literature professor.
Based on the storyline I had assumed she was considerably younger but not surprised to learn that she taught writing.
