https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28078.The_Birth_of_Venus
After reading this for the second time I wish I could give it higher than five stars.
I discovererd new things about this book that I hadn't caught before.
Such a wonderful book and I can't wait to read it for the third time!This is an absolutely amazing book.
The author has done a lot of research and it shows in her writing.
The imagery is wonderful and you really get wrapped up in the lives of the Character.
Now that I have been studying Mythology I would like to read it again and see what mythic images I can get from it based on Botticelli's painting.
No!On completion: If you want to read a book about art during the Italian Renaissence read The Agony and the Ecstasy: A Biographical Novel of Michelangelo.
You will learn something there, and the time spent reading will be enjoyable.
If you are looking for a light fiction novel where lead characters just happen to meet all the right people at the right points in time, where all the strings of lfe are neatly tied up, where character portrayal is shallow, go ahead - read "The Birth of Venus".
Then read "The Agony and the Ecstasy" and make a comparison.
A few points about this book:If you choose to read it, skip the Prologue. It gives away the last quarter of the book. (I found this very frustrating.)The middle of the book is fine. It's basic historical romance stuff with interesting, smart characters.The end of this book sucks. The main character, and her best friend, make decisions which are both odd and unbelievable.Perhaps you should skip the prologue, read the middle, then when you get to the last few chapters, instead of reading them, skip back to the prologue.
“Art washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life.”  ----Pablo PicassoSarah Dunant, the British bestselling novelist, has penned a delectable and extremely tempting historical fiction, The Birth of Venus that is set against the backdrop of the Renaissance Florence and that which revolves around a young 14 year old girl who is not beautiful or skilled like her elder sister, yet her talent and eye for art and mind for translating languages is extraordinary but with the changing times, she is forced into matrimony at a tender age, and little did she knew what fight she is put up for, in the name of honor, respect and womanhood during the Dominican rule in the 15th century Florence.Synopsis: Sarah Dunant's gorgeous and mesmerizing novel, Birth of Venus, draws readers into a turbulent 15th-century Florence, a time when the lavish city, steeped in years of Medici family luxury, is suddenly besieged by plague, threat of invasion, and the righteous wrath of a fundamentalist monk.
The novel takes place in Florence, Italy during the fall of the Medicis and the brief rise of the monk Savonarola, and that place and time (and the role of the Church in it) are central characters.
As the monk cracks down on all who run counter to his theology (including the pope), Alessandra, an intelligent, art-loving girl of 16 from a well-to-do merchant's family, rushes into marriage to escape exile to a convent, only to quickly find herself in a situation that is hardly the stuff of women's dreams -- but then, Alessandra had unconventional dreams to begin with.
This novel addresses social class, sexuality, beauty, despair, relationships between men and women, and the relationship between God and the Church.
Her unsuccessful marriage might be disappointing, but a disappointment for which she would easily find solace through her art.I also found that in creating this antagonistic relationship between brother and sister, Ms Dunant revealed very little understanding of gender relations in an Italian family.
Yet, while women may be little regarded as people in their own right, they are still cherished and protected as part of the family.The writer’s portrayal of the relationship between the brother and sister, therefore, is not credible and I felt that the writer had fashioned it simply to create conflict and crisis.
With an overpowering deluge of verbs and a merciless amount of description, only surpassed by Tolkien taking 60 pages to walk around a mountain, I found myself continually drifting off. The novel has a meticulous feel to it, with robotic research covered by a light skein of unbelieveable emotion and a pseudo-attempt at mystery that is all gunked up. Like many books published by large corporations its inherent shallowness and malleability would make a great movie.
However, the rest of the book was very enjoyable, so it merits four stars but with a hazard warning: this is NOT the book to read if you want a satisfying ending.Spoilers ahead…I had some logic issues all the way through (the brother’s hatred for his sister, the mother’s contradictory attitude of educating Alessandra while somehow hoping she will just conform to her allotted role), but the nunnery puts all that in the shade.
She meekly marries, is given the freedom to pursue her art but, far from appreciating her luck, she still spits at her brother and husband, and seduces the painter under her husband’s roof.
Wow, I really enjoyed this book.
I read it in a day.
I didn't read it like I read  Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix  nor did I read it like I plan to read Book 6 on July 16, but I read it in a day it was that good.
I'm just going to address my one major problem with the book before I go on to tell you exactly why I liked it so much.Language.
I don't know how they spoke in the 1490s, but some of the language seemed very current.
nor did I read it like I plan to read Book 6 on July 16, but I read it in a day it was that good.
I'm just going to address my one major problem with the book before I go on to tell you exactly why I liked it so much.Language.
Maybe you guys can clear it up if you've read the book.
Even after I've read evidence to her FROM the book.
I saw this book at Costco as I was browsing.
I found myself forcing myself to read each page.
I did not find the book intriguing or engaging.
Then, to her horror, she finds out that her husband is gay and the lover of her brother.
Her brother thought that this would be a great arrangement because her husband would allow her to paint and then the husband would not be suspected of being a sodomite in the future.
It was just gross to read about.
I couldn't risk reading about any more of the nasty serial killer murders or weird love scenes.
I have had this book sitting on my bedside cabinet shelf for quite some time,as I was so disappointed by Blood & Beauty  that I didn't feel like starting this title.
I feel in a platonic way that (view spoiler)[ Cristoforo came to love her even though in the end Alessandra betrayed him, every bit as much as he betrayed her.
(hide spoiler)]My favourite character was Alessandra's slave the blunt & farseeing Erila.One thing I didn't understand was the title of this book - unless it refers to (view spoiler)[ Alessandra's daughter?
(hide spoiler)] If anyone does know, please tell me in the comments.
A friend gave me this book as a birthday gift.
Oddly, it was a book she'd never even read (and she's an even more avid reader than I am).
She wasn't wrong, however, for the first few chapters, I constantly wondered why on earth she'd pick out such a book (with such content) for me...
Sarah Dunant's The Birth of Venus is an intriguing and educational read- an ingenious and original tale set in a time one wouldn't consider such antics taking place.
I am now reading it for the second time, and enjoying it just as much as the first.
An old nun dies and her habit is stripped away to reveal a sensual and scandalous tattoo - but this is only the beginning.
Alessandra is a girl of fourteen in fifteenth-century Florence, mesmerized by art and life when she should be preoccupied with marriage and suitors.
Left to pursue her own dreams, Alessandra is swept up in the fever of reform as the fanatical Savonarola begins scourging Florence - and in the fever of art as the Renaissance takes hold.
The tale of the old nun and the young girl meet in an ending destined to surprise.
I read this title for a book club and from the description, I thought it would make for a very good discussion.
Unfortunately, the story did not live up to the expectations created by the inside flap.If you like historical fiction, it does have a fairly interesting depiction of Renaissance Florence going for it--and I did learn some things along the way, like I usually do with good historial fiction.
This book also fails to deliver on its promise of mystery and a potentially riveting side plot.That being said, as a quick vacation or casual read, it's not a terrible choice.
Unfortunately, I can't recommend it as a good book discussion choice.
This book is set during Renaissance Florence, and follows the life of Alessandra, the daughter of a wealthy cloth merchant who has dealings with the Medici family.
While Florence is going through tumultuous times, with struggles between the artistic and opulent Medici reign, and the fanatical religious fervour gripping the city, Alessandra clings on to her love of art and painting, all the while developing an increasing fascination for the painter hired by her parents.
This was a fascinating look into this time period in Florence, and it was a very enjoyable read.
Really 2.5 Stars.First let me start by saying I'm surprised at how much I liked this book, yes even though I only gave it 2.5 stars.
The Medieval era and the Renaissance are two of my least favorites times in history, and this book is rooted in the Renaissance.
:) But yes, I did enjoy this book to an extent.I liked the main character Alessandra.
Alessandra's husband, at first I really liked him (view spoiler)[despite tricking her into marriage.
I mean (view spoiler)[who goes and leaves their wife to live with their gay lover, who also happens to be his wife's brother?!
I'm finding it difficult to select a rating for this book. It begins with a bang (5 stars for interest, mystery, intrigue), slows to a disconnected simmer (2 stars) which cools to lukewarm (1 star). The story does pick up (2-3 stars) but then spirals into a disappointing ending that, to me, seems inconsistent with the character. (1 star).
3.80Molto bello sotto il profilo della ricostruzione storica - la morte del Magnifico, il potere di Savonarola, i Piagnoni, il falò delle vanità -, meno appassionante nella narrazione vera e propria. Il lettore si immerge nella Firenze di fine Quattrocento, a cui è dato molto spazio nel romanzo. Tutto questo spazio appare, però, a discapito della storia personale di Alessandra Cecchi, la protagonista. Altro punto a favore del libro è la facilità di lettura: le parole scorrono velocemente, anche i tratti più densi di nozioni storiche attirano l’attenzione del lettore e lo trascinano nella passione per la conoscenza.
O fim de vida de Alessandra leva o leitor a desenvolver de imediato uma curiosidade imensa sobre esta personagem tão preciosamente caracterizada ao longo do livro.Sarah Dunant fez um trabalho fantástico na transmissão dos conceitos e mentalidade da época - a forma como nos mostra que, onde algumas pessoas veem beleza sincera, outras poderão ver algo bem mais perverso…Na Florença do século XV a que Dunant nos leva, Deus está em tudo o que é dito ou até mesmo pensado - conforme era visto como uma entidade vil, irada e punidora ou benevolente e compreensiva.
surpreendente?) O Nascimento de Vénus transporta, com subtileza, o leitor para a época renascentista, para o momento exacto em que a bela Florença unia a arte à religião como se o todo de ambos fosse a única forma de honrar devidamente o Senhor.Através de uma abastada, conservadora e, ainda assim, modesta família conhecemos Alessandra.
This is a book that starts with an ending: the death of an elderly nun in a 15th century Italian convent.
From there the story vaults to the beginning - to when this mysterious nun was a 14 year old Florentine named Alessandra.
It is that night, she believes, that shaped the rest to come.The city of Florence is also an important character in the book.
The middle part of the book lays out Florence’s downfall first through a “friendly” occupation by the French and then a coup by an ultra-conservative cleric who locks down the city and decrees art to be ungodly.
Ideas expressed/message/plot: Alessandra is an intelligent & talented young woman living in Florence during the Renaissance.
While she must to conform to the rules of society, she figures out a way to succumb to her own passion as well.The book's prologue is truly one of the best openings to a story that I've ever read.
I loved the evolving relationship between Alessandra and the painter.
I felt a learned a lot about Renaissance Italy - it's a time period that was always skipped over in school.
It wasn't really light reading - you definitely need to pay attention to details to fully absorb this book.
We'll return to Botticelli later (who certainly was just as deserving as Donatello, as far as accolades go) as he is relevant to the story, "The Birth of Venus."As all the fashionable Florencian's knew, it was all about "Keeping Up With The de' Medici's." If, that is, you were of noble birth, had plenty of money, a chapel alluring enough to provide years of study, time for all that hard work behind the scenes: the layout, gridwork, preliminary pre-sketches, setting up the scaffolding; all this even before the first brushstrokes could be laid down on the final fresco.
Mind you, in the age of The Renaissance, most painters painting Masterpieces believed it to be a CALLING, therefore they did find inspiration from the Divine when they put a brush to hand.
Antes de mais, gostaria de começar com um agradecimento a Elphaba, pois foi graças a um passatempo no seu blog que tive a oportunidade de ler este livro de que gostei bastante e que já o andava a "namorar" há algum tempo assim sendo: Muito Obrigada!É sempre (ou quase sempre) muito agradável estrearmo-nos em obras cujos autores que ainda não tivemos oportunidade de ler ou que ainda não conhecíamos e este foi um desses casos.
Fui surpreendida por uma história muito interessante cuja ação se desenrola em Itália, mais concretamente em Florença no século XV, cujas personagens enriqueceram a história com os seus medos, as suas opiniões e as suas perspetivas sobre a época muito conturbada que foi esse tempo.
Majority of the book takes place during the particularly turbulent 1494/1495, years of Savanarola, Night Police and its accompanying fervent madness, spectacular time rendered vividly, claustrophobically and stunningly by the author.
It's an incredible journey set during an incredible time and populated with terrific, charismatic, interesting characters (Florence itself being one of them) based on both historical facts and imagination.
Having never read the author before, I was weary of the book turning out to be a corseted chicklit or something that treats history as a suggestion, but this has exceeded all expectations, turning out to be not only an awesome, utterly engaging story, but a stunning window into a bygone epoch as well.
To be honest, I could have wished for a happier ending for Alessandra Cecchi but overall I really enjoyed this very unique historical.
Also, very early on in the story, I realized that the City of Florence was just as much a main character as Alessandra, in fact they share the spotlight.
Alessandra is quite young, still just fourteen years of age, when the story begins.
Needless to say, she becomes a woman before the end of this story.
Her story is engaging and she is different from other heroines I have read about in historical fiction.
Dunant does a wonderful job blending historical events in with her fictional character, the blossoming young woman, Alessandra Cecchi.
Through Dunant's vivid descriptions of the time period , readers are transported to late 15th century Florence.
The details given to the reader displayed Dunant's erudition and thorough knowledge of that time period.
Interestingly enough, I was more engaged with her servant,Erila, whom I wanted to know more about her background and life.
I eagerly waited for Dunant to divulge any information that would lead me to any clues about Erila, sadly, I only received a few.
This book was a little bit chick-y, but I liked it anyway.
It takes place in Renaissance Italy and it is fully aware that it cannot capture the beauty that it seeks to in any way, shape, or form.
Which bothered me on some level since I wanted more of the overwhelming, in your face, splashy sense of the era if I was going to read about it.
But since I usually like quiet, intimate novels, it didn't bother me that much.
This is a good, relaxing read with some lovely imagery and a fairly well told story.
3.5 StarsI really enjoy historical fiction and have never read a book about Florence or this era.
I mostly did enjoy this book and I liked the main character Alessendra.
I felt for her in many parts of this book.
I liked the story line, and the books plot moved in a good way.What I didn't really enjoy about this book was everything about the art.
Art really was a main topic in the book, and it did help with the story.
At times I just got really bored reading all the descriptions of the art and would just skim over those parts.(I think I'm to used to my Tudor HF!)
I made it 65 pages in, but I couldn't bring myself to finish.
Another book I wanted to love!
Artist Domenico Ghirlandaio's was one of the great artists during the Italian Renaissance.
The author weaves a story between Domenico and Alessandra Cecchi.
Unfortunately, Alessandra's parents arrange a marriage for her to a much older man.
Why did I lose interest when this story should have been so interesting?
The author did that thing I hate.
I prefer more story.
I really wish I could find a great Italian book about historical figures that is as interesting as their lives actually were, so far no luck.
