https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/927672.The_Laughing_Policeman
No one has any idea what Stenström is doing on the bus, and the hunt for a mass murderer in 1968 Sweden is all a bit surreal to the detectives who expect that kind of thing in Vietnam war torn USA, but not late-sixties Sweden.The investigation (refreshingly bereft of the "cop killer" chest beating we've come to expect from our police procedurals) digs deep into the life of Stenström, trying to figure out what he is doing and why he is on that bus.
Just reread this for work, but it's reminded me that I meant to go after the others in the series and work my way through them. I really do have to, because they're brilliant, and decades ahead of their time. Sorry the US, but your classic hardboiled fiction really does pale into insignificance next to Nordic Noir. Give me Sjöwall and Wahlöö every time.
The Laughing Policeman is the fourth in the Martin Beck series, and so far it is my favorite from this writing duo.While the police in Stockholm are busy at the American Embassy where a protest against the Vietnam War has turned very ugly, patrolmen Kvant and Kristiansson, the Keystone Cop-ish police officers who just so happened to have inadvertently solved the case in The Man on the Balcony, are just biding their time until their shift is over.
The authors also continue to develop their characters' personalities so that the people in the Stockholm homicide squad become more and more familiar to the reader as time progresses.
Another super book in the series about the morose, melancholy and mirthless detective Martin Beck - though it is an ensemble piece in reality as his colleagues are heavily involved as well rounded totally believable characters in their own right.Who has machine gunned nine people on a Stockholm bus late one evening?
Why is an off duty policeman one of the victims?
How is this case linked to an unsolved murder mystery?There are no witnesses save a man in a coma who expires after waking briefly and speaking a few words of gibberish, no real clues and a compromised crime scene, but Beck and his team painstakingly solve the case by following the minutest of clues to a surprising conclusion.An evocative thriller, easy to read and enjoyable in the extreme.
Sjöwall/Wahlöö's 4th book has never been made into a Swedish movie, but was filmed starring Wather Matthau in 1973 (The Laughing Policeman).
This story, starting off with the shocking mass murder of a number of people on a night bus in central Stockholm, is one of, if not the top of the series.Note: Not all the others where filmed in Sweden either, no.
8 - Det slutna rummet was a Dutch movie and the last one - Terroristerna - was only in very small parts incorporated in Stockholm Marathon.
Nine people are murdered by a gunman on a bus who then flees the scene of his crime leaving Martin Beck and his homicide department to investigate the death of one of their own team, shot whilst off duty.The authors seem to be using the weather to set the tone for their novels so far and what is remarkable is that each of them have been unique in approach to storytelling whilst consistently adding something to the body of work as a whole.
I can understand its popularity, as it is my favorite so far in this ongoing police procedural series.It is important to accentuate the procedural nature of the story, in order to give a warning to readers who expect all crime stories to have a super smart detective who solves cases by smoking a pipe ot twirling a moustache while the author goes to great lengths to hide the true culprit.
I find it impressive how many modern authors of crime novels, in the foreword of each Martin Beck novel, mention the importance of this 50 years old series, and how it influenced them in their own writing.The plot is a dark one.
But if the object of a writer is to entertain and hold the interest of the reader, this book - and this series - succeeds admirably.Once again we have the ever-morose and ever-dyspeptic Swedish policeman Martin Beck, now risen to the rank of superintendent, along with his cohorts in the Stockholm police department, trying to solve an unprecedented crime where clues are few.
Certainly what we know of his wife indicates that he may have good reason to be morose.As ever, Martin Beck is not the hero or even the main focus of The Laughing Policeman.
Probablemente sea la mejor novela policíaca que haya leído en mi vida. Redonda. Sin grietas. Magistral. Puede leerse en individual sin perder mayores detalles, pero recomendaría, encarecidamente, leer las tres previas de la serie: No desmerecen para nada.
The pieces come together through collaboration, not by lone wolves sniffing one trail.Written in 1968, the style here is multiple points of view.
The prose swoops down from extreme omniscience and scene-setting--a dry, matter-of-fact coolness to the tone--before picking up the thoughts and actions of one of the many cops in the ensemble.The cops are warts-and-all.
Over and over that question drives the action.The cops divvy up assignments, chase down leads--come up empty and fight for a faint tidbits of information.
The work is procedural, dogged, detailed--and nuanced.When the pieces finally come together, the trap is set and even then Sjöwall and Wahlöö play it cool, don't let the descriptions over-inflate the scene.
Martin Beck, the protagonist of this series, is the spiritual ancestor of Henning Mankell's Kurt Wallander.
But he's a heck of a policeman.One thing I don't recall noticing when I first read this book back in the 1970s was how it is set in a definite time -- 1967, with protest demonstrations worldwide about America's involvement in Vietnam.
The book opens with such a demonstration in Stockholm, with most police detailed to keep order.
(As is my wont, I had forgotten "whodunnit" long ago so that I enjoyed not only the writing, but the mystery.) I very seldom reread mysteries, but the Sjowall and Wahloo series is well worth a reread, or a first read if you haven't encountered them yet.
It was only while reading the 4th in a series by Henning Mankell that I noticed I was reading a crime novel whose title remarked on the facial expressions of joy and laughter (Mankell's The Man Who Smiled) much as this novel I'd just finished reading did (the 4th in the Martin Beck series: The Laughing policeman).
The only transcendence required is the reader's.Here's a link to my review of Mankell's The Man Who Smiled.-------------------------------------------------Series ReviewPer Wahlöö and Maj SjöwallTwo writers from the left, without too much argument, started it all where it concerns crime fiction in Scandinavia (the books were written in the sixties).
Probably as good as it gets as far as a police procedural drama goes.Christmas time in Stockholm 1967, a mass murder on a bus. One of the victim includes a homicide detective. The police squad slowly works around to a connection to a previous unsolved murder of a nymphomaniac part-time prostitute.Martin Beck is just one of the gang which is about the team working together and not on any individual. The differences between Beck's after-work life (he has none) and that of his friend and colleague Kollberg is one of the other highlights in this little classic.
A escuridão parece permanente, mesmo durante o dia, como que para igualar a disposição deprimente das pessoas envolvidas."The Laughing Policeman" começa por nos mostrar uma das muitas facetas obscuras da força policial.
Enquanto um fala pelos cotovelos sobre todos os aspectos da sua vida, inclusive sobre detalhes íntimos (como a suspeita de um sinal estranho no peito da sua mulher), o outro é um excelente ouvinte e um homem mais do que paciente, eu diria mesmo, um santo!Enquanto Martin Beck e a sua equipa investigam minuciosamente e com calma a vida das vitimas, deparam-se com a tragédia do desperdício da vida humana e o efeito da morte nos familiares e amigos que continuam a viver.
What a treat I am having reading the Martin Beck series in order; with this book I'm 4 down and 6 to go.The skill of these writers is creating a brilliant Police procedural and here with The Laughing Policeman you are treated to one of the best.All the detectives play their part in trying to solve a mass murder as they slowly begin to understand that that horrific crime was committed to stop one of their own from solving a much older murder.I especially like the gentle interactions between the detectives, where the lack of progress is drawn out and frustration builds, but a sense of duty prevails.
yet another totally solid, fast-moving, absolutely hypnotic entry in the martin beck series which somehow manages to completely emotionally devastate me at the end (this time, via a joke). these people are insanely good, i have no idea how they did it, these books are all but perfect, i don't in the slightest understand how they work, how they gain their power, but it is tremendous... and what's more, it seems to be cumulative... 6 books left and i'm already starting to worry about withdrawal...
So in this novel when a mass murder is committed in a bus in Stockholm, the police wonder about whether the incident represented a protest against the war or was a copycat crime.
No firearms should exist.”“Some bastard makes a fat profit by making and selling arms, just the way other people make a fat profit on factories that make narcotics and deadly pills.”“The cartridge was Swedish but the pistol, American, a Smith and Wesson 38 Special, made in Springfield, Massachusetts.”About materialism and shopping on credit:“The consumer society and its harassed citizens had other things to think of.
Una trama dagli sviluppi lenti, senza colpi di scena clamorosi, anzi viene spesso sottolineata l’inettitudine della polizia di Stoccolma che non riesce a venire a capo dell’omicidio, avvenuto in una piovosa notte di novembre 1967, dei nove passeggeri di un autobus a due piani, nel centro della città, crivellati da innumerevoli colpi di pistola.
Tra i passeggeri vi era un agente di polizia, che a quell’ora di notte non doveva essere in servizio, e proprio dalle indagini della squadra omicidi, guidata da Martin Beck, sul giovane poliziotto si arriverà a dipanare il filo del caso.
This is the first co-authored novel I've ever read. This is part of a Swedish series from the 1960s and my first outing with main character, the taciturn, rather unexceptional, Martin Beck and his police team. Exceptionally good - judging by this one, certainly deserve their reputation as fine crime thrillers/police procedurals. I mean to read the whole of this series. I did however think the translation and proofing errors in the version I read, let it down a little. What a shame I can't read Swedish!
I love how the story not really focus on Martin Beck but the whole team as well.
Quite intense with mass murder sort of crime, unknown suspect and a very unlucky police guy.
But I still like Martin Beck and his team-- the procedural, the investigation, the guessing game, hints and instinct.
Too bad for Stenström but love Kollberg so much in here.
Kind of Nordic noir I like, and the ending leaving me in surprise-- if only Beck was thorough enough they won't have to think and guess and find out about the suspect that long.
Thanks to Stenström anyway.
None of his colleagues can explain why he was alone, armed but off-duty, on the bus.It's a tightly plotted novel that weaves two crimes together – and where an older investigation is critical for making progress on what appears to be an investigation with almost no entry-points.The dyspeptic Martin Beck, as he leads the investigation, continues to suffer, and cause suffering, through an increasingly strained marriage, a slow deterioration thrown into relief through his friendship with Lennart Kollberg – whose own marriage is almost idyllic.The careful planning of the entire series is evident in both the developing characterisation and the increasingly complex plotting.
In the early 80’s I read and enjoyed the entire Martin Beck series of Maj Sjöwall and Per Wahlöö, but “The Laughing Policeman” was my favorite.
“The Laughing Policeman” is a police procedural published in 1968 when mass murders had yet to appear on the scene in Sweden.
A large part of the appeal of the Martin Beck novels is the interplay of personalities of those working the case.
Beck and his colleagues have very distinctive personalities and each has his own particular strong point where police work is concerned.
Anyone interested in Scandinavian detectives would do well to go back to the grandfather of them all, Martin Beck.
The original Roseanna is withoutdoubt outstanding but this comes close.The authors of these books are the inspiration for other great Swedish crime novelists such as Henning Mankell and you can see that reflected in the latters books.
This is solid police work that makes you sweat out the pages with them.This was one of the only foreign crime novels made in to a film at this time and goes to prove the quality of the story and writing.If you like crime and want to see the roots of this genre, read this.
This was another episode in the Martin Beck series.
Unfortunately, my library does not carry the print versions of this series, so I must continue with the audioseries.
I think I'd like the print version better because a lot seems to get lost in translation with the audio version (someone else's interpretation of the words, etc).
However, I still like the characters and series enough to continue.
In this episode the character development was even stronger because Martin Beck was investigating the death of one of his own police officers.
I also really enjoyed the father/daughter bond developing between Beck and his teenage daughter.

Solidly enjoyable mystery with satisfying police work throughout and pretty clever and funny. I'm used to/into mystery novels that introduce the villain early on and this wasn't that--the mystery is solved in the last 20 pages--but very much enjoyed.
More of a "police procedural" than I typically read. Well written, just not my preference in writing styles--I prefer more in-depth characterization.
Betties Books
E’ una considerazione che mi è piaciuta, e che si adatta perfettamente a “Il poliziotto che ride” di questa anziana e piacevole coppia di scrittori svedesi.Per ammissione stessa di Sjowall e Wahloo, i romanzi gialli da loro scritti sono solo il pretesto per sfatare un mito che deve essere quanto mai fastidioso, quello della Scandinavia politicamente e socialmente perfetta, con un welfare tirato a puntino dove tutti sono felici e tutelati.
I did read the first book in the Martin Beck series a few years ago, probably in prep to get to this most famous title, but there are two other books in between which I have unfortunately not yet read…which doesn’t bother me at all [she typed nervously].
Like the first book in the series, Roseanna, this is a procedural which depicts all the police legwork, much of it ultimately useless, which solves a crime.
The book does make 1960’s Stockholm seem seedy – a far cry from what I think of (probably stereotypically) gentle, law-abiding Sweden.
