https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4631.A_Moveable_Feast
”If you are lucky enough to have lived in Paris as a young man, then wherever you go for the rest of your life, it stays with you, for Paris is a moveable feast.” Ernest Hemingway The Lost Generation: Hemingway and the circle of ex-pat friends he later immortalised in The Sun Also Rises. More friends, including Harold Loeb, the model for Robert Cohn in The Sun Also Rises, on the left, Hemingway in the centre and Hadley on the right.I hadn’t planned to read this book until I read this great artic
More friends, including Harold Loeb, the model for Robert Cohn in The Sun Also Rises, on the left, Hemingway in the centre and Hadley on the right.I hadn’t planned to read this book until I read this great article in the The Atlantic that was published recently by Joe Fassler that consists of a conversation he had with Daniel Woodrell.
Scott Fitzgerald (The Butterfly).Hemingway becomes exasperated with the devastating influence that Zelda had on Fitzgerald’s life and writing.
I wish I’d read this book when I was ni-ni-nin-teen because maybe I’d be a brilliant regional writer like Daniel Woodrell.
Writers can write with greatness anywhere in the world, but a writer in Paris - and goodness, a writer in the vintage years of the early-mid 1920's - is a singularly-blessed creature who may pour forth with words that change the world.
I have marked passage upon passage in which Hemingway talks about writing - he was so disciplined and therefore so productive - which weakened my knees: "I would stand and look out over the rooftops of Paris and think, "Do not worry.
this is how Paris was in the early days when we were very poor and very happy." Perhaps the one true condition of enjoying this memoir is that one must be an incurable romantic.
If Paris became my moveable feast, something I carry with me to this day, Hemingway became the voice to express that strange kind of love story that exists between human beings and cities.
When the cold rains kept on and killed the spring, it was as though a young person died for no reason."The sadness Hemingway mentions is one of sweetest feelings I know: it encompasses the essence of Paris, - its strange melancholy beauty!It has been two years since I last took my children to the city, and in the growing October darkness, I can feel the longing, the need, the desire to go soon ...
Aligning the work with fiction promotes its artistry; in addition, Hemingway’s Preface serves to justify his carefully reconstructed version of his early life.However, Hemingway’s book does not seem like fiction because of what he leaves out, but rather for what he puts in.
Let us hope and believe always that it was completely honorable in every way” (125).Despite Hemingway’s stated qualms about avoiding gossip and upholding honor, he shows no restraint in his portraits of Gertrude Stein and F.
Scott Fitzgerald, Gertrude Stein, Ezra Pound, James Joyce, and a long list of other giants who happened to all be writing in Paris at the same time.
Scott Fitzgerald shares concerns with Hemingway over the size of his pecker.
In another, Hemingway laments the agony of spending hours to write one good paragraph.I'm honestly not much of a Hemingway scholar, but I feel this book should be ranked higher in the canon.
But there's no question that the delivery is superb.Hemingway writes with humble grace so it doesn't feel like we're reading about the world's great writers, but regular people pursuing their dream.
The book, first published in 1964, describes the author's apprenticeship as a young writer while he was married to his first wife, Hadley Richardson.عنوان: پاریس جشن بیکران؛ اثر: ارنست همینگوی؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: چهاردهم ماه جولای سال 2005 میلادیعنوان: پاریس جشن بیکران؛ جشن بیکران؛ اثر: ارنست همینگوی؛ مترجم: فرهاد غبرایی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، کتاب خورشید، 1383، در 345 ص، اندازه 11 در 17 س.م.، این کتاب پیشتر با عنوان «جشن بیکران» توسط انتشارات، با ترجمه ی: فرهاد غبرایی در سال 1369 منتشر شده است، واژه نامه دارد، موضوع: همینگوی، ارنست، 1899 تا 1961 م، خانه ها و پاتوقها در پاریس فرانسه، داستان نویسان آمریکایی، سده 20 م، سرگذشتنامه، تاریخ، پاریس ، آداب و رسوم و زندگی اجتماعی سده بیستم میلادیاین فراموشکار پاریس را برای نخستین بار به سال 1975 میلادی بود که دیدم، یکماه در آن شهر بودم، اما نخوابیدم.
Whenever a friend/Roman/lover/countryman/debtor/student/jackass bar brawler tells me that Hemingway lost it after THE SUN ALSO RISES or (being generous) A FAREWELL TO ARMS, I say: read this book.
There are moments of vile approbation.
But when I want to read a book by someone who lost his shit and knew he lost it spectularly, this be the one.
There are few passages more self-recriminating in lit than the moment at the end of this one in which EH, lameting his affair with Pauline Pfeiffer, says that he would rather have died than love anyone else than his first wife, Hadley.
In A Moveable Feast, Ernest Hemingway presents vivid and interesting observations on his days struggling to make it in post WWI Paris. Interacting with other writers described by Gertrude Stein as being members of the lost generation, A Moveable Feast shows a young Hemingway defining himself as a different kind of writer. The connections to The Sun Also Rises are readily apparent. However, Hemingway’s thoughts about art and his writing are relevant to all his novels and short stories. This is another of my recent Hemingway rereads. It was a memoir I’ve always enjoyed and this time was no exception.
On one hand, what could be better than reading a pseudo-memoir written by the unabashedly self-absorbed, and yet enduringly charming, Hemingway--all white wine, manliness, and burgeoning craft, with an excess of anecdotes and remembrances (often unflattering and unfair, god bless him) of his eccentric and luminous contemporaries?
For from the way Hemingway describes it, writing--working--is hard, physical (manly) labor.
Is. Work.And yet...Hemingway tells us of a time when one could travel through Europe on a seasonal basis, drink bottles of wine by the liter, eat out in cafes all the time, and still be considered poor.
It’s in this book that Hem praises Fitzgerald’s innate talent, blames Zelda for ruining that talent and recounts the famous anatomy lesson he gave Fitzgerald at the Louvre, prompted by a catty comment about the man’s genitals by Zelda.There’s lots in here about Hem’s writing practices (he was publishing his first stories and working on The Sun Also Rises), struggling to make rent, gambling, alcohol and what authors he was reading.An air of bittersweet regret hangs over the passages concerning his first wife, Hadley (pictured above), especially near the end when he confesses to an infidelity (to us, not to her).The understatement here, and the book’s lyrical concluding passage, make this a warm, enduring portrait of the artist as a young man.
I thought he was a author I would struggle to connect with.
This retrospective memoir of his early writing life in Paris as an expatriate set in the 20’s was a great place to start, getting a good sense of Ernest as a young man before his fame as a well loved author.
I really liked the way he describes the struggles and the distractions during the writing process.
Who would have thought that would be so interesting to read about!
It’s all part of the glittery appeal of a struggling author finding his forte in the city that is the background to so much inspiration for so many artists!
They knew nothing of our pleasures nor how much fun it was to be damned to ourselves...(I did not misspell "boring," it's that way in the book.)Ernest Hemingway is writing about himself and his life in Paris.
But it also sharpens all of your perceptions, and I found that many of the people I wrote about had very strong appetites and a great taste and desire for food, and most of them were looking forward to having a drink.This is accurate.One of the most absolutely romantic parts of the book is the chapter in which Hemingway and Hadley decide to wear their hair the exact same length.
Toklas," I say that she was ambitious but not necessarily great.)Overall, I greatly enjoyed spending time with Hem, even though I'm sure some of the stories were exaggerated.
But there is always the chance that such a book of fiction may throw some light on what has been written as fact."Finally, I want to honor the cleverness of the title, which came from a letter Hem wrote to a friend in 1950: "If you are lucky enough to have lived in Paris as a young man, then wherever you go for the rest of your life, it stays with you, for Paris is a moveable feast."
Yes, I know, this is a high rating. But I did really enjoy reading this book. It was like I was with Hemingway in Paris in the twenties. It really came to live before my eyes. I think it has much to to with his manner of writing. Very clear sentences, not a word to much but it captures all he has to say without much frivolity. He wrote this book at the end of his life so he really mastered this very own style of writing and which I like so much.
The Moveable Feast by Ernest Hemingway is an intriguing read.It’s an odd little novel, more biography than fiction.
Ezra Pound was a central figure who helped form a community of writers and organised donations for T.S Eliot so he could quite his job and write poetry.
I found the sections with her far more compelling than those with the other literary figures, and I would gladly have read a novel just about their curious friendship.
This may have been a bad place to start (quite a few readers suggest that this is the last novel of his one should read) because it is a retrospective piece about how he became a writer.
I decided to bail after his visit to the indoor bicycle races, like dance marathons one of those frantic displays of recreational endurance so popular in the 1920s.
A quick comparing look at Joseph Roth’s account of a night at Berlin’s tracked bicycle races, in What I Saw, convinced me that I was wasting my time with Hemingway.
There are better books.
Hemingway’s style will always strike me as more or less mannered and ridiculous, but what I read of A Moveable Feast was especially bad—solemn, pompous, dialed down to a portentous slow-mo.
It’s enough to make one cite Nabokov’s opinion that Hemingway is essentially a writer for boys.
The prose is Hemingway-crisp, concise and evocative, but even with the Ezra Pound love fest midway through the book (fascinatingly against the grain in an America predisposed to loathe the poet for his ties to Nazism), A Moveable Feast isn’t A Moveable Feast until Scott Fitzgerald and Zelda appear on the scene.
Zelda is a mad bitch; Scott is a drunken man-child; she makes him piss away his talent; it is all sad and pathetic; Hemingway does nothing to mitigate the sadness.But I don’t think Hemingway wrote this, even in his later years in Ketchum, with any intention to impugn Fitzgerald, or Scott (as he called him).
وای که چقدر این اسم عالی و فریب دهندست.پاریسپاریس(در پس ذهن من) شهر شراب وپنیر و کتاب و عاشق شدن و نشستن های بی هدف در کافه های ارزان قیمت و خواندن کتابهایی با جلد های بس کهنه و بی رمق که انگار بارها خوانده و دست به دست شده.
آغاز کتاب با آهنگ فیلم املی خواندن را آغاز کردم.
گوشه ای دنج در دنج ترین کافه ی پاریس نشسته و به تماشای همینگوی در میز کناری مشغولم.
آنقدر غرق شده ام که آرزومیکردم وودی الن مرا برای بازی در فیلم نیمه شب در پاریس انتخاب میکرد.در هر صفحه زیر چند جمله خط
وای که چقدر این اسم عالی و فریب دهندست.پاریسپاریس(در پس ذهن من) شهر شراب وپنیر و کتاب و عاشق شدن و نشستن های بی هدف در کافه های ارزان قیمت و خواندن کتابهایی با جلد های بس کهنه و بی رمق که انگار بارها خوانده و دست به دست شده.
زندگی در پاریس بی بند و باری زندگی همینگوی در پاریس،بی پولی او و اهمیت ندادن او به این موضوع که برای من چیزی بیشتر از یک فانتزی دور نمی‌تواند باشد از نقاط جالب کتاب بود.
عالی. عالی عالی عالی. داستان نبود و خوندن چیزی که داستان نیست واسه من خیلی عذابآوره. اما بهقدری جذاب بود که هم سریع میخوندم هم هی مکث میکردم که بعضی تیکههاش توی ذهنم بشینه. چه دیالوگهایی، چه شخصیتهایی، چه دغدغههایی. همینگوی ازین کافه میره اون کافه، مشروب میخوره، خوش میگذرونه، غذاهای خوب میخوره، اطرافیانش رو میبینه و حرف میزنه، و مینویسه، مینویسه، مینویسه. درآمد داره و حتی اگه یه شب جای نه چندان راحتی بخوابه یا غذایی که دوست داشته نخوره یا با کسی که خواسته حرف نزنه، راضی و خوشحاله و مینویسه. دقیق
یه تیکه‌ای که دوست داشتم و خواستم اینجا بنویسم، رابطۀ فیتزجرالد و خانمش بود.
فیتزجرالد از کارهای خانمش حرصش می‌گرفت و مجبور بود توی مجالس مختلف همراهش باشه از بس توجه‌ مردهای دیگه رو جلب می‌کرد، از طرفی هم خانمش حسودیش می‌شد که فیتزجرالد هی می‌شینه خونه می‌نویسه و به بهانۀ مهمونی‌ها می‌کشوندش بیرون.
اون‌قد این کتاب رو دوست داشتم که بعد از تموم شدنش برای اینکه این حال و هوا توی ذهنم موندگار بشه، رفتم فیلم گتسبی بزرگ رو دیدم.
و زن همینگوی که بعد هربار برگشتنش به خونه، ازش می‌پرسید چی یاد گرفتی.
بابا زنش هم پاریس جشن بیکرانی بود واسه خودش.
Charming, ranging, generous, memoir of Paris, stuffed full of memorable lines ("Never Any End to Paris") and packed with the luminaries of the expat era.
How weird to read a book where Joyce is just sort of around, where Gertrude Stein and Alice Toklas squabble, and where, in an excellent moment, Fitzgerald's face turns into a death mask while drunk.
All along, Hemingway's first marriage to Hadley is at once extolled and mourned.
Hemingway is an odd caricature of himself, but there is a charm to his wanton masculinity that makes him hard not to like.
A fictionalized biography that tells the life of Ernest Hemingway in the Paris of the twenties.In the book the happiness of someone who has had the fortune of having lived in that city is perceived.
To Fitzgerald, Ernest Hemingway describes him as a hypochondriac drunk under the influence of his wife Zelda, a woman jealous of her husband's talent and success.
A Hemingway flogged by his madness tried to relive past times, those days of economic hardship, when he lived above a ballroom with his wife Hadley and his son, walks on the banks of the Seine or write in the cafes.
A Moveable Feast provides wonderful tips for neophyte writers and a fascinating look at those heady days in Paris, with (sometimes overly nasty) parts covering a friendly Ezra Pound, John Dos Passos, a charismatic James Joyce, Gertrude Stein (Hemingway described as resembling a "Roman soldier"), Ford Madox Ford (apparently awfully foul-smelling) and F.
Read immediately after The Paris Wife, this is like a book end on the 1920s in Paris, a photo of a writer's life in writing, as a husband and father, as a member of the ex-patriot community in Europe.
There are glimpses of his writing process, his friendships (or maybe more properly relationships) with other writers, artists and luminaries large and small, his apparent love for his son and wife.All is masked as fiction but reads as real life.
"When we lived in Schruns I remember the long trip up the valley to the inn where we slept before setting out on the climb to the Madlener-Haus.
4.25★“If you are lucky enough to have lived in Paris as a young man, then wherever you go for the rest of your life, it stays with you, for Paris is a moveable feast.” Published posthumously, according to forewards by Ernest Hemingway’s son and grandson this restored edition is truer to the author’s vision than the original text overseen by his fourth wife.
According to son Patrick these were some of his dad’s last professional notes: “This book contains material from the remises of my memory and of my heart.
He even turned on famously Sapphic Gertude Stein, whose aperçu "Ernie's remarks do not constitute literature" is the single best thing in her own tediously overwrought ouevre, and still whose support for him in his initial Parisian foray was key to his success.So my response to this book, read after the extraordinarily excellent The Sun Also Rises and his uniformly good, frequently excellent, short fiction, came off badly in my eyes.
The temptation to emulate his style *must*be*resisted* because, trust me on this!, you cannot reach its heights.I don't like his stuff but I do acknowledge his hugely effortful and massively talented foray into stylistic innovation.I suspect, though I cannot prove, that Hemingway won't survive the ages.
I'm not at all sure novels will survive the ages as a means of consuming stories.
Yet, between this glitz and glamour rests an underlying sadness, one that he describes when he says, after a horse race, that "I knew everything good and bad left an emptiness when it stopped." I cannot help but wonder how much of Hemingway's writing stems from his efforts to work through his own inner demons, often by projecting a better - yet still problematic - version of himself onto paper.
His melancholy does not excuse how he judges and berates women based on their bodies, as well as his other offensive behavior, but his hardship helps to explain it.Again, thank you all for sticking with me through all of these reviews.
I am conflicted about the impulse to collect, collate, publish and monetize every note and scrap an author has scribbled.Some parts of this book (Fitzgerald drunk and worrying about the size of his penis and Hemingway offering to take him to a museum to discuss the related topics of penis size and perspective in ancient Greek statues) was so bizarre it just rang of truth.
Other pieces just seemed like Hemingway's first draft of stories using his own life as a model.
But I also think it all feels a bit like grave robbing.
I'm heading for Paris on a work related trip in a few weeks so I thought I'd get in the mood by dipping into papa.
He did it because he didn't really know enough words.
It always sounds like he's peeking over his chubby shoulder looking for the camera ready to laud-scape his every thought.A moveable feast is really nothing more than a moveable fat man looking for a meal and some hotties to hang on his precious words.Paris prep is far better satisfied by listening to some Django, sipping on a crema coffee and pondering the reason cuff links are used on french-cuffed shirts.
“If you are lucky enough to have lived in Paris as a young man, then wherever you go for the rest of your life, it stays with you, for Paris is a moveable feast.” “We would be together and have our books and at night be warm in bed together with the windows open and the stars bright.” I love Ernest Hemingway as a writer, at his best, especially in many of the stories, but in the main novels, too, there is often breathtakingly good writing.
Though you do see him interact with Gertrude Stein (though she's not portrayed in a good way), you hear a mention of Katherine Mansfield (not in a good way either), quick mention of Karen Blixen (who he thought wrote the best book he had read about Africa) and Hadley (his wife) and the loving thoughts he had of her as he foreshadows their demise--making it clear that it was all his fault.
If you were to say Hemingway was imparting one in particular, it would be this perhaps, what he told himself when he couldn't start a story: "All you have to do is write one true sentence.
