https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36124936-the-outsider
There was one rock-hard fact, as unassailable as gravity: a man could not be in two places at the same time. Stephen King amazes me. Here, he has managed to turn a 300-page story into a 560-page story by leading us on a long-winded wild goose chase while waffling on about almost everything, but somehow, though it seems hard to fathom, I could not put this cracktastic shit down.If you are thinking about reading this because you like mysteries and thrillers and have seen this in the latest myster
But if you're a fan of King's slow, meticulously-detailed climb to the creepy good stuff, lots of characterization that probably wasn't needed, and 200 pages that could have been cut but are compelling anyway - step this way.
And then not being able to sleep after.The Outsider sets up a scenario that immediately piqued my interest - an horrific crime against a child (warning for graphic sexual violence); evidence all pointing to one man; said man has an airtight alibi putting him hours away when the crime was committed.
I never even finished the first book of that series, but I didn't need to know those stories for this book to make sense.Like most King stories, I had a whole lot of fun reading this.
(In fact, Uncle Stevie even acknowledges this by actually having Coben himself be a plot point in the book.) And this works for a while as King builds up the scenario with an intriguing mix of clues and witnesses that both absolutely prove that Terry must be the murderer while also making it utterly impossible for him to have done it.There’s a huge problem with that though.
So it’s like he’s teasing us that there is some kind of Sherlock Holmes style solution to this puzzle, and I found it incredibly unsatisfying when the supernatural stuff showed up to explain it all.The extra sad thing is that Uncle Stevie has done this plot before, and he did it better there.
While I do read a lot, it is not often I find a book that I don't want to put down at all.
But, I woke up early, without an alarm, when I had about 100 pages to go because I was so into it I couldn't stop thinking about it and wanted to finish it!This is basically a combination of King's old school horror stories with his more recent mystery books (Bill Hodges trilogy).
I will just leave that statement out there with no spoilers - you'll see!Really, my only criticism of the book is the ending.
Classic, quintessential King-An eleven -year old boy is found brutally murdered and strong evidence points to Little League coach Terry Maitland.
But, as the investigation begins to unfold, doubts and alternative evidence make Ralph question Terry’s guilt.
King has a way of building a complex puzzle, while creating characters readers are sure to respond to, either in a good or a bad way, and then proceeds to scare the crap out of us.
This book is will remind readers of why Stephen King is the master… and always will be.4.5 stars
3.5? 3.75?This started off really good but it slowed down towards the end. I was happy there was some connection to the Bill Hodges series (which I liked a lot and recommend you read first since there are some spoilers here!) but I was overall underwhelmed.Recommend it but it's not for everyone.
I'm just going to give a few of my thoughts and impressions:The first quarter of this book was outstanding.
It reminded me of all the reasons I love King in the first place.
I know that my mouth dropped open when I was reading quite a few times and who doesn't love being surprised?
Perhaps, it's because I was also reading CARRIE at the same time for a book club meeting, and that short novel reminded me how lean and mean King can be?Whatever the reason, I do recommend THE OUTSIDER, I just can't give it my highest recommendation.
REALLY good stuff here....BAFFLING stuff....CREEPY crawling chilling stuff.....and most of all....Stephen KING excellence in storytelling stuff!
"Anything is possible---anything at all." Investigative help is desperately needed, hence the appearance of a brainy, eccentric favorite character of mine from KING'S past novel, FINDERS KEEPERS who ultimately takes charge and is by no means new to the extraordinary, mind-boggling, inconceivable or grotesque.
She and her analytical ways enlighten ALL with her beliefs and past experience opening up a whole new world of monsters, darkness and death for her new compadres.GREAT READ!
- - BUT..BUT..BUT.....if you plan on reading the Bill Hodges trilogy, do so first....if not, you're good to go!
I've really enjoyed working through his backlist, and I am here for all the 80's/90's old school horror and sci-fi, but the newer brand of SK and I just haven't clicked.
Guys, I am SO glad I picked this up; The Outsider has given me faith in the new brand of King and the reassurance that it's ok not to click with an author's every piece of work.
I would love to see this as the beginning of a new trilogy featuring (view spoiler)[Holly (hide spoiler)] and Ralph, so if the Stephen King angels are listening, this is my formal plea.
This book had me feeling disturbed and unsettled on a few occasions, whilst also having me sending frantic messages to my BG friends like "What the eff just happened?!"Those first 2-300 pages were simply unputdownable.
But it's also so good that I wanted to take my time and really savour being in a great King book.
One of my favourite things about King's writing is those scenes that really just feel so simple.
And no one enjoys that shit.I just feel so happy that King is still writing and releasing books of this quality.
But to me, the last 6-7 years' worth of King's output has ranged from "good with some lame aspects" to "Yawn with a side of OH OKAY!" to "WHAT THE FUCK IS THIS GARBAGE AND WHY DID EVEN A SINGLE DAMN TREE HAVE TO DIE FOR IT??" His last really good book was 11/22/63, written in 2011.
From the fat shaming, to the casual sexism, to the regular backhanded "compliments" tossed Holly's way (that she's EVER SO GRATEFUL FOR, but also modestly embarrassed by) and so much more, I am reminded of all the things I hated in that book.
He is Terry Maitland, Little League coach, English teacher, husband, and father of two girls.
Maitland has an alibi, but Anderson and the district attorney soon add DNA evidence to go with the fingerprints and witnesses.
When the answer comes, it will shock you as only Stephen King can.
II love Stephen King and in this novel, he has finally come back.
I loved his older books and this one filled me with excitement and the horror kept on coming.
If you loved the Bill Hodges Series, this one will be a big treat.
His fingerprints are all over the crime scene and eye-witnesses place him with Peterson moments before his death.
Almost immediately thereafter, new evidence comes to light showing that Maitland was seen on camera hundreds of miles away at the exact moment the murder took place.
Somehow, I know I’m not alone.While I loved the premise of “The Outsider” and was scared and completely shocked by the twists and turns, I felt that the storyline petered out a bit towards the end and it left me wanting just a tad.
Thank you to Stephen King for continuously keeping me entertained since I was a pre-teen.
The Outsider has everything I've come to love about King's storytelling ability while adding all new elements to my fandom.
You can almost feel King's own surprise as the book takes a drastic turn into the unknown and thrusts the reader into a state of what-the-fuckery that lasts until the final denouement.Every character in this novel sings.
Make damn sure you do not ignore this novel due to some preconceived notion that this is the fourth Bill Hodges book, or simply fan service for Holly Gibney fans.
Mixing his ability to write mysteries with a long-established foundation for the supernatural, this novel will impress the dedicated reader ready for an adventure like no other.
Wanting to make a show of Maitland’s arrest, Anderson seeks to have Maitland taken into custody during a high-profile baseball game, in front of much of the town.
His masterful ability to tell a story is surrounded by layers of tangential writing and minor characters seeking their time in the spotlight.
Ralph Anderson and Holly Gibney, though not the only others who share a significant amount of the spotlight, are two that will not soon be forgotten by readers.
There is a few special moments that happen in life. One of them being one that gets me every single time. And even if I don't go ape over the book that is his new one at the time, I'll always pick up that next one.Because...… I'll admit that the first half of this part had me drooling in my sleep. I've been working all the hours at work and can barely hold my eyes open for 2 minutes but once I actually started this one I was mumbling around (something about yessssss my King....) Then I got to th
And even if I don't go ape over the book that is his new one at the time, I'll always pick up that next one.Because...…
I've been working all the hours at work and can barely hold my eyes open for 2 minutes but once I actually started this one I was mumbling around (something about yessssss my King....)
Then I got to the second half of the book.
Did two books just get smooshed together because King got tired?
So don't go there.What irritated me was the book didn't feel connected.
One minute it's this....and the next it feels like a re-mix of a book that King wrote years ago.
You will appreciate her more in this book, if you have read the other books which feature her character!This book felt like classic King to me.
King was the first Author to scare me, really scare me when I read my first book by him when I was a teenager.
Stephen King has had some amazing books over the years and he has also had some duds.
This book felt like Classic King to me.
I replaced the nail with a spike and went on writing.” -Stephen KingHere's to many more years of writing!!!Classic King!Read more of my reviews at www.openbookpost.com
A man with a ruint face and tattoos crawling up his arms - now you see him, now you don't.  A dirty white van, a flapping yellow bra strap, and frightening flashbacks of a rotten cantaloupe from childhood.  An open and shut case that most assuredly isn't.  Skin and bones, a skeleton screams.  Take heed of a man with a sack; trust me, it ain't Santa.  "Dreams are the way we touch the unseen world . . ."  Beware, the nightmare is about to begin.
I decided, after being enticed by many positive reviews, and with the intention of giving the King another chance, to see what it would be like reading his fiction again, at this point in my life.The beginning started off with a bang.
Even more specifically, it was this better not go all supernatural on me scared.I love dark things.
And, in case you're wondering, I’ve loved Stephen King in the past.
The ending was borderline cheeseball, despite the fact that I quite enjoyed the character of Holly, who astute King readers will recognise from the Bill Hodges series.It didn’t help that the thing is over 500 pages.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/WARNING: SPOILER-ISH “Doesn’t look like a monster, does he?”“They rarely do.” First things first: I don’t know if I simply lucked out or if the library is officially terrified of me at this point and placed me first on the waiting list, but whatever the case I am truly grateful to have received this on release day. On the flip side, since I was fortunate enough to be one of the first to get my grubby paws on The Outsider, there aren’t
Well, unfortunately for me the wheels kind of started to fall off when King brought back a main character from a place where he recently performed a literary hat trick and the story went from a crime thriller to a “horror” (I guess - I have a hard time using that word if a book isn't scary) and I noticed that he saves himself from having to flesh out characters by introducing readers to so many of them and I realized I will go to my grave declaring the majority of King’s books could do with a good whacking (The Outsider could easily have been cut down to 350 pages and probably earned more Starzzzzzz from yours truly because you don’t really get anything except more pages with the additional 200 here - except a hand cramp if you opted for the hardback version rather than an e-Copy) and even the superbaddie wasn’t his own creation which was a little disappointing and last but certainly not least .
Agh, this one was hard.
65% of this book is some of King’s best, most original, and most assured writing in years.
It’s when the novel switches track and truly delves into the nature of the antagonist that it begins to get a little cheesy and, overly familiar.
I was excited when I heard this was a supernatural horror novel.
This might have been an incredible crime novel and easily one of King’s best books.
Instead it goes from wholly original and compelling to a mish-mash of all the things we’ve seen him do before, right down to the hurried ending.
I really really love Kings writing style and his characters. He knows how to create the perfect atmosphere for every situation possible. But unfortunately the story itself fell flat for me. It was predictable and nothing new, I guess? It just didn't overwhelm me. But it was still a nice read and it seems like most people enjoyed it a lot :)
When set side by side, it’s clear that The Outsider is no masterpiece like King’s older works, but it was still a great pop novel.
This has been a sad trend from King as of late— he creates incredible monsters and then gives them a glaring weakness so we’re not afraid at all and more or less just read the last 100 pages to wait for the inevitable end.
I would only say that new King fans should not limit themselves to his more recent books when so many works of art were published before Y2K.
It was probably the best thriller I’ve read in a long time, too.
Here we find ourselves with another case of Stephen King trying his hardest and failing miserably to end a book.
1. The ending felt like it was 5,000 pages long.
It was like he had two stories to tell and mashed them together into this unnecessarily long novel.
Maybe if he wrote two 300 page books instead of one long one it might have worked better.
The first half of the book is some of his best work in years.
Absolutely loved THE OUTSIDER by @StephenKing - Murder, baseball, and gut-wrenching suspense. This is classic King at his best.
This is the 16th book of his I’ve read, and it’s easily one of his best.Everything is so sharply done: plotting, pacing, characters, twists, the villain.
I sought out free moments to continue reading.I cringed, I laughed, I got totally spooked out, I muttered “OH NO HE DIDN’T!” more than once, and I was completely entertained.Like King’s recent Bill Hodges trilogy, The Outsider starts out as a detective/crime story and then turns into something else that I don’t want to spoil.
At first I thought there were too many characters: cops, a district attorney, a savvy lawyer, the various witnesses, not to mention Maitland, his wife and his two daughters and the grieving members of the murdered boy’s family.
There is one thing I always know when going into a Stephen King novel, I’m going to enjoy it immensely but do not even begin to ponder how dark or weird it will end up being.
There’s crime, legend, and fantasy and a surprisingly quick read even though it is over 500 pages, they just fly on by.
I don’t want to explain the plot because it you go in thinking you are getting a certain type of story but it evolves quickly.
So I’m afraid by going into an explanation on the plot, it will spoil it.
My quick and simple overall: fascinatingly odd and an intriguing reading experience!
I go into reading Stephen King with very little expectation other than being mildly entertained.
I read a number of his books in my teens and I thought they were middling to OK.
I was excited to read his book 11/22/63 back in 2013 but mostly it did not deliver and was a fair rating of 2.5 stars.
This put me back onto Stephen King and I added both IT and Salem's Lot to my reading list.
This year, this novel came out and I thought "Sounds terrific.
So far, let's say 2.5 stars and I think how is this going to pan out ?
”The professor said people had the mistaken idea that Poe wrote fantastic stories about the supernatural, when in fact he wrote realistic stories about abnormal psychology.” A police investigation into the horrific murder of a child veers off the rail into the realm of monsters. There's a dogleg turn into the second half but that's where you have Lovie Bolton and I liked her.   ”I’m a defense lawyer, son. I can believe anything.”
*no spoiler review* However, if you don't want to know anything about this book, please save this review for later.I have been waiting for a book like this from King for a long, long time.
The Bill Hodges trilogy had sharpened King's teeth for a suspense/thriller/detective novel (a damn good one) and about 100 pages into the book, there was the promise of horror too--could *anything* be better??
I felt myself getting slightly impatient with the pace around 70% so there was some fat to be trimmed--this is not a horribly lengthy book, just over 400+ but I feel like King could have delivered a leaner, meaner (thanks Char!) story.
I’d really enjoyed the Bill Hodges trilogy - brilliant crime fiction mixed with just a little telekinesis activity - and I’d heard enough about this new book to know that this was going to be right up my alley too.
In fact, it feels like a open-and-shut case, with little doubt that this popular friend, neighbour and all-round good guy was the murderer.
I listened to an audio version of this book, read by the brilliant Will Patton.
There are some readers who just seem to suit certain writers and I truly believe that Patton was made for these books (he also read the Hodges trilogy).
