https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1785957.Who_Was_Changed_and_Who_Was_Dead
they sat there for a little time; but the bottom of the boat smelt of fish, so they climbed out and lay on the river bank in the sun.
he used to lie at the bottom of the boat while his father laughed and emma dried him, grumbling at their father as she rubbed him with a towel.so far this year there had not been any of those dreadful bathes.i was going to type out another passage, until i realized it would amount to typing out nearly two full pages, and you people don't want to read that much, do you?
A quirky, forgotten classic brought back to print and deservingly so.
I'm particularly impressed by Comyns' ability to float among POVs as often as the wind changes without driving me crazy.
Developing an entire town of characters in 200 pages seems like an insurmountably difficult task - and yet here it is.The plot is infused with tragedy and dark humor and sometimes it's hard to discern which tone she's going for.
Even still it's hard not to read without a wry grin as the number of dead bodies steadily rise.
I don't know that I would categorize it as a must-read, but I do adore its uniqueness.
I recently purchased books from the Dorothy Project, and one of the books was this one.
It was a clear sign that I should read this next.This is a weird and disturbing book (in a good way) - the town seems to take floods, epidemics, and dead animals (and people) in stride.
At the same time, the typical pastoral small-town English novel is going on, so the contrast is entertaining.
I find it amusing that this novel was banned in Ireland (it came out in 1954.) I'd really like to know which part disturbed them the most!
First caught my eye via the incredible title, before I realized I'd been meaning to read this for a while.
And it's great, the best thing I've read this month, probably.
Comyns shares certain peculiarities of tone, observation, and conviction, perhaps, with interwar favorites Jane Bowles and Denton Welch, but seems initially to be taking things into much more phantasmagorical territory.
Initially we have the macabre pastoral British landscape, a flood, unexplained public suicides, creeping madness, but everything gives way unexpectedly to realism and sorrow (somehow maintaining, throughout its instances of gruesomeness and loss, a kind of innocence.
Introduction--Who Was Changed and Who Was Dead
A perfect little Hallowe'en treat for gruesome children. It reminded me strangely of The Man Who Loved Children; twisted family dynamics are pitched at you and the author moves on, leaving a sickening afterimage to burn into your eyeballs. Dark genius at work in fairy tale land. Can you say macabre?
This novel probably sounds more macabre than it reads: It opens with a disastrous flood and takes place in a small English village beset by a mysterious epidemic of suicides.
The story circles around several children growing up in a beatific countryside and the turns their lives take during these strange events.
Comyns strikes a tone that's between all the expected registers - normalizing the surreal imagery and making the closely observed psychology seem deeply odd.
Black humor mixes fluidly with sincere heartache.
Imagine a more pastorale Edward Gorey, perhaps.
It must come natural to her to read like a check list of stupid mad bitch things to do.
I liked the laid back manner of real life workings in the village so there didn't have to be some straight guy working off the comedians effect going on.
Ebin Willoweed "coaches" his children under the thumb of his grandmother.
Mysterious illnesses and mouth frothing insanity and people dropping off like flies and cats and dogs wasn't as much to me.
If you like the sort of thing of people killing cats by falling on top of them, maybe.
(3.5) An extremely entertaining, weird and funny story about a family that doesn't get along, a tragedy within that same community and what happens in the aftermath of said tragedy.
Comyns was a writer with a hugely imaginative mind and this kept me reading without boredom.
Generally, when there is a lot of death and grief I feel a loneliness, a darkness inside.
She finds a way to make the act of dying not sad, but a part of the actual entertainment.Recommended for people who don't take life seriously and want a quick read to pep them up, even through what can usually be perceived as depressing.
Other reviewers have compared Barbara Comyns to Shirley Jackson, and they're right to do so.
Both authors have a way of describing awful situations and people with detached, pinpoint precision.The Willoweed family, living in a small English village in 1911, ruled by the tyrannical and cruel Grandmother Willoweed, are beset first by flood and then by an epidemic.
Who is changed, who is dead and who escapes has nothing to do with who is good and who is bad.
This is well worth reading, if only for the style in which the tale is told.
Another reason to feel warm and fuzzy inside.Having never heard of the author, I let the book sit.
I read only the first few paragraphs of the introduction before beginning the book as I felt too much was being revealed for something I hoped to be surprised by.
The town first suffers through a flood and then other worse things begin to happen, things that made me gasp in surprise.
The Grandmother was a terrifying character, or maybe it was more that I could feel the terror of her family whenever she appeared.So, this is highly recommended and I'm off to find more by the author.
Barbara Comyns is absolutely one of my new favorite writers. Her work is so strange, so precise, so ever-so-slightly gruesome. Reading Comyns is a kind of submersion; like lifting your feet from the lake bottom and drifting; like closing your eyes against a grey sky as the water rises around you, lifting your hair, filling your ears, slipping overhead until everything around you is blurred and green. A world recognizable--but barely.
Pretty much perfect.
Barbara Comyns is one of those writers who has been on my to-read list for so long that an almost mythic status has been assigned to her name in my mind.
Based on reviews I've read through the years I was also uncertain as to what exactly to expect from her books.
Sometimes these conditions can set the stage for disappointment when I finally get around to reading a writer's work.
As a writer, Comyns strikes me as a steadfast conductor leading a mad orchestra of characters through a hectic yet pitch-perfect piece of music, filled with melodic eddies nested between disharmonic crescendos.
This book belongs on the shelf next to "Let's Murder Uncle," "I Capture the Castle," and of course, that famous gem of odd goings on in the British countryside, "Cold Comfort Farm." However, be aware that Comyns tragicomic little gem is dipped in a blacker hue than any of the previously mentioned books.
And one can only pity the feckless servants.Written in a clear, unflinching prose that's peculiarly beautiful, "Who was changed and who was dead" is an uncomfortable vision of country life that makes me very glad to live in a city.
Morbid Adorable.Reads like a children's book with a horror plot. I'm not sure what it means. Is it supposed to be symbolic or not?I first read this when I was 17. I found the Virago copy in a knock off bin in a mall bookstore. Drawn to the title. It was 1993. This novel was formative for me, I loved it. Probably more than I do now.
A dreamy-grotesque summertime tale set in a village of England’s West Midlands in the 1880s. The village is afflicted first with a flood and then a terrible epidemic, and through it all the characters--the strange Willoweed family, in particular--float like obsessed apparitions or dangerous sprites, distending the fabric of their community with the momentum of obscure, private agendas.Comyns’ limpid, fluid narrative voice is a true marvel, covering a tremendous amount of ground--and very quickly--in this short novel. With every Comyns book, I’m struck by the similarities to Shirley Jackson. This one was almost--though not quite--as good as The Vet’s Daughter.
I love weird English tales about rural village life.
Maybe because it's what I've descended from or maybe because it doesn't exist the way it used to and I have some kind of weird nostalgia for a kind of simplicity that shuns modern conveniences associated with efficiency and cleanliness...It's funny that this was a banned book.
Was it the cat with it's eyeball popped out of the socket or the butcher who sliced his own neck in the shape of a smile or the charred man who crawled from his burning cottage?
On the basis of this, I'd say Comyns seems like the bastard love child of Stella Gibbons and Edward Gorey - the macabre and the droll fighting it out for supremacy. A breezy, entertaining read - my one quibble is that the book was published in 1954 and the beginning states it takes place "About Seventy years ago..." and yet the contemporary coronation of George V is mentioned, which took place in 1911!
(4.5) Talk about gothic humor! Who isn't dead or probably dying in this novel, and gruesomely at that! However, it is wonderfully surreal, with the innocent and poignant moments of childhood. Comyns has the delightful ability to succinctly get to the point while painting wonderful scenes of this town—you feel as though you are there (which in some scenes is a rather unpleasant feeling). Through a series of surprising twists and turns, Comyns keeps readers on their feet! It's a fun and quick read (though just honestly some moments are a bit horribly gruesome and disturbing)!
Comyn's novel is parody of the English novel of village life, filled with eccentric characters and their rustic doings.
Reader's know something bad is going to happen, and it's not surprising to read about halfway through the bookWithin a few weeks funerals were to become a common occurrence in that village; but at this time they were rather scarce and looked forward to eagerly.When I worked around used books, Barbara Comyns was one of those writers published as a Virago Classic whose novels sat unsold next to other remaindered Virago Classics by Christina Stead, Molly Keane, and Elizabeth Taylor.
Maybe that's why I tend towards writing that follows the VaryView-like toy you used to get in Crackerjack, where the image looks one way from one perspective and another from a different one.
I like a sentence that can be deeply moving and absurdly funny at the same time.
Once I clicked into the voice, which I'm embarrassed to admit took me more pages here than in other works, I found the story of a flood and the following mysterious fatal disease impacting a English country village amusing.
I wish I could have kept reading this book for several weeks, but it's such a quick read I had to work hard to make it last longer than a single afternoon.
I read The Vet's Daughter a year ago, and came across this new printing of Who Was Changed and Who Was Dead while browsing the Dorothy catalogue.
Thanks to the Dorothy Project, this is also a book that feels good in your hands, the cover has a really nice matte feel and the shape and page layout are great.
It's such a shame that so many of Barbara Comyns's books are out of print.
I'm determined to get my hands on everything she's written.
Wow - a deft, strange, singular, disturbing little book from a midcentury writer who deserves to be much better known. Horrifying sequence of events befalls an idyllic English village, described in language that is lithe and darkly funny, evoking the vertiginous emotions of childhood. Grandma Willoweed is unforgettable. Barbara Comyns is an original, brutally clear writer. I will be reading "The Skin Chairs" and "The Vet's Daughter" soon.
Barbara Comyns has a fine imagination. I enjoyed this book, which was very warm and full of humor and quirks, despite the gruesome deaths.
Thanks to Lauren Groff — who, in her NYTimes Book Review interview, included only books by women authors without pointing that out (and thereby highlighting how many of the men interviewed include only books by men!) — for the tip-off to Dorothy Books. This was the first I read, and it was such a bizarre and darkly funny read.
Old Ives below said, “It’s a bad thing for the sun to shine on a flood, it draws the dampness back to the sky.The story starts off with an account of a biblical flood which ravages the house of the Willoweed family.
Whimsical details of the deluge open up windows to the characters and their way of life.She looked like a dreadful old black bird, enormous and horrifying, all weighed down by jet and black plumes and smelling, not of camphor, but chlorodyne.Grandmother Willoweed is a tyrant despite her pitiable hearing conditions, her son Ebin Willoweed is widowed and under constant duress from his mother.
Published in 1954, this is like a cozy English-village novelette gone terribly wrong.
A bit like Cold Comfort Farm, but more lyrically written and not as funny.
The book opens with a flood: "The ducks swam through the drawing room windows.
The weight of the water had forced the windows open; so the ducks swam in.
I had difficulty reading the passages about how the father berates and abuses his 5- or 6-year-old son.
Somewhere I read that if Jane Austen had had a morbid streak, she would have written something like this.
Comyns manages to make strengths of qualities that are often considered flaws.
The tone varies substantially, sometimes within the span of a single page or less.
(I was reminded a bit of Robert Aickman, although Comyns is both more naturalistic and more morbid.) The narrative voice flits among the characters like a spotlight gone AWOL.
The characters don’t participate in the plot so much as bob along on top of it, like flotsam caught up in the flood that opens the novel.
It has a peculiar rhythm (Comyns has a fondness for single sentences that don’t quite fit with the paragraphs that surround them).
A sweetly horrific nightmare of a tale.
And the baby piglet "all pink and dead".
Where CAN one find prose like that?
Complete with an appalling grandmother a'la a grotesque Shirley Jackson's Mrs. Halloran from The Sundial.
Who Was Changed could be a Stefan Kiesbye's Your House Is On Fire, Your Children All Gone, lite.
Very lite.
Kiesbye's ducks would not be "quacking their approval" as they floated and in the flood, but his hens might commit suicide by dropping falling off their perches into the muck below.
And his character could most certainly carry a dead kitten in his pocket.
