https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35488.Cash
Really enjoyed this.Learned alot.

In the movie High Fidelity, the main character is talking about the well-known books he has read and then concludes with, "But I have to say my all time favorite book is Johnny Cash's autobiography, Cash by Johnny Cash." This line in this movie is the sole reason I first decided to read this book.
This book provides insight not just into Cash's life but gives a glimpse at different periods in recent American history.
An amazing life, full of hardship, myth, love and beauty, I felt privileged to have this glimpse that Cash gives with such honesty.
I have read this book twice all the way through, and I am not sure I can say that for any other biography or autobiography.
In one remarkable passage, Cash recounts, in a Jonah like tale, how he crawled deep into cave, jacked up on drugs, pretty much ready to die.
Back in Arkansas, a way of life produced a certain kind of music.
Toward the end of the book, he recounts his first meetings with Rick Rubin, which would put into motion a remarkable string of recordings (the “American Recordings”) that Cash would put together toward the end of his life.
We remember the good and the bad and the memories from our early years are greatly magnified.
Cash grew up very poor picking cotton in Dyess Arkansas and eventually made his way to Memphis and a Sun Records contract after a stint in the Air Force in the early 1950s.
I never got the sense that Cash was revising history in this book but simply wanted to record and reminisce about his life for posterity.A paragraph near the end summarizes the nostalgia that permeates the book.“I went back to the old homesite in Dyess a few years ago.
Johnny Cash is perceptive, genuine, candid, and driven in his writing.
He lived some CRAZY stories.
His interest was peaked by ordinary things like weather patterns.
He knows what is worth admiring and I like that about him.
He definitely wasn't a saint, and he didn't pretend to be, but he always knew where his hope came from.
I would definitely recommend this book to anyone interested in the life of Johnny Cash.
He tells his story well and he is worth hearing from.
I'd like to read more about him after reading this book.
Basically this book is about as close as you’ll get to sitting on the back deck of Johnny Cash’s house at 8:00 in the morning, drinking a cup of coffee and hearing him tell a bunch of stories.
But, more than anything, you just feel like you’re sitting on the back deck with The Man in Black and there’s a guitar there for him to pick up (or you to pick up) whenever you want.
And that may lead into a song or a story or some quick little anecdote; but, whatever it is, you’re loving every minute of it.
He was a mad dog, music star, son of a gun but also a down to earth, spiritual, deep thinker.The first part of the book gives us a brief introduction, Cash is in Jamaica writing the start of the book, he then starts the story proper, detailing his early life growing up on his fathers farm picking cotton in the fields, a bereavement that changed his life and his time in Germany with the U.S airforce intercepting Russian communications.
It's relevant."when music people today, performers and fans alike, talk about being 'country', they don't mean they know or even care about the land and the life it sustains and regulates.
Back in Arkansas, a way of life produced a certain kind of music.
Does a certain kind of music now produce a way of life?

If you like even one of his songs, this book is worth reading. If you don't like any of his songs, shame on you.
Those books really stand out as you get a feel for the person and how they’re living in the moment that it’s written, not just their chronological life story.
We all have failed and fall short of the glory of God, and this is an example of that, and how we can keep striving as humans to be perfect in Him. It’s really inspiring.The end drags a bit as he just wants to mention every friend and family member and acquaintance he’s ever come across, but that’s just 20 pages of the book and it feels like a coda after the story sort of a prolongued thanks section rather than part of the text itself.
I mean, I’ve read books like "The Unbearable Lightness of Being" and "Love in the Time of Cholera", and I think I’ve understood them.
But I have to say my all-time favorite book is Johnny Cash’s autobiography "Cash" by Johnny Cash.” - Rob Fleming, High Fidelity, by Nick HornbyI love a good autobiography, and I love a good yarn about the life of a musician, particularly one who raised hell.
You find yourself hearing Cash himself reading it to you in your head, with his rolling, rumbling, mouthful of gravel voice, which gives his tales of life on the road more oomph.
So Cash wrote about his life, and sometimes it made sense and sometimes it made something a little shy of sense, but it's still his memoir.
And he deserved the chance to tell his story.His story here starts with his childhood, and he discusses the death of his brother and his rise to fame and his adoration of June Carter the first time he met her.
He tells stories about ostrich attacks and the reader is just like, "Whoa, what a bad ass".
Cash is the real deal - or was the real deal - someone who grew up in the south, picked cotton, heard and wrote songs, sung with Elvis at Sun, popped more pills than anyone, found and lost and found God, and blew in and out of fashion.My favourite story was the one where he and his wife June were in New York City walking about on a Sunday and decided, on a whim, to go into a church they were passing.
I told you he´d come!" Turned out the boy had been telling everyone, parents, parishioners and anyone else who´d listen, that Cash was going to go into the church and worship with them that morning - and he had.
It was the one and only time Cash had been in that church in his life.
Neither is it some crazy tell all, get the skeletons out of the closet, woe is me story.
It's the Man In Black telling his own story.
He tells you how to pick cotton, the real story of blue suede shoes, what it feels like to dig imaginary spiders out of your own skin, and why he painted the windows on his camper black.
Answer: so he could sleep during the day when he was high on amphetamines, but mostly because he liked spray painting things black.
Also recommended to fans of the film HIGH FIDELITY as it is Rob Gordon's favorite book.
Being a Johnny Cash fan already I spotted this book while shopping and had to pick it up. I enjoyed it from start to finish. Cash had so many interesting stories to tell, from tragedy, his addiction to drugs, to his fame and meeting his wife June. This autobiography gives such an amazing insight to Johnny's life from his childhood on the cotton field to his staggering career in music. Even if you aren't a fan of Johnny Cash I would recommend this book because it's such an inspiring and heartwarming read.
A brilliant story of a brilliant man.
His vivid descriptions of nature's allure, his recollections of Jamaica and that terrible robbery, Elvis, Jerry Lee Lewis, Bob Dylan, Carl Perkins (and many many other famous artists or not so famous ones), his family (Carter family significance), his drug taking episodes, make this autobiography simply a must read for anyone who who has even a smidgeon of interest in the history of American music.
But all in all this autobiography is a great insight into the 'man in black' and really how the way things were back when contemporary music was coming into being and about those who propelled in into the spotlight.
Ever since the character played by John Cusak in the movie High Fidelity listed "Cash by Johnny Cash" as his number one book I knew I would have to read it.
His life story is definitely worthy of a book (or two).
This honest telling of the story of the Man In Black is filled with anecdotes that surprised me with their candor and insights.
I have a much better understanding of the origins of the Memphis sound, of life on the road, and of this remarkable man's journey bringing his unique brand of music to the people.
Given the hype surrounding Johnny Cash for the previous 7 or 8 years, I had sort of reached a saturation point, where I just didn't need any more.
I had loved his music for a long time, appreciated the man and the voice he had, but didn't need much else.
Someone bought me this for Christmas, and it was one of the most moving things I had ever read.
He is honest, humble, and most importantly, contemplative about his life and what it means.
It changed dramatically the way I felt and thought about his music, and is something I still quote on a regular basis.
Beautiful book that you can't help but read in Cash's voice. So descriptive and pure, from his days picking cotton, to his abuse of amphetamines, you feel like you're witnessing it all. It never dragged. Each story had emotion and energy. I particularly loved his stories of Roy Orbison, whom I had no idea he was a friend. Cash's faith was an ongoing factor throughout and was so interesting and powerful. A great book to take your time and enjoy.
Jesus, drugs & rock 'n' roll country. Simply Cash.
Ostrich wounds and flying hospitals. 'Nuff said.
Obviously that is his business, but it is a curious void that accompanies you throughout the reading of this book.In all, Johnny Cash feels himself to have lived something of a charmed life, in spite of his addictive nature, and indeed that seems to be the case: having such a recognisable voice and being in the right place culturally at exactly the right time meant he could parlay his persona into an American cultural fixture, however uneven his output along the way might have been.
His life was very interesting and this book was like having conversations with him.
It is suppose to be easy talk about something you like, but I can’t write a review properly. Cash is one of my favorite musicians and I’m obsessed with his life. This book was delightful, I’ve enjoyed every single page and was amazing to read all of it with his voice.
The first sentence -- "My line comes down from Queen Ada, the sister of Malcolm IV, descended from King Duff, the first King of Scotland." That is pretty wonderful.In the extras for one of my favorite films, the director talks about trying to cast a certain character, and how the challenge was wrestling with the fact that the person was born into a fascist state of sorts with the soul of an artist.
I love the idea of "being born with the soul of an artist" and I think Cash's autobiography actually brought that phrase to life for me -- what that would mean about who you were and how you thought and what you did.
Johnny cash was an example of the American dream. Ever feel down and never being able to get up? Johnny cash's life is a prime example that there is always hope. This book shows the troubles and struggles he went through. This book is a hit! Give it a shot.
She's very loving, especially with me, and very kind -- there are people who can be loving, but not kind, but she's loving and kind."On everything else:"When we come in from a tour, we both need time and space apart so I'll pack up my little suitcase and head here to the farm, and she'll pack her suitcase and head for New York City.
It's necessary, I think, for marriage partners to have some free time apart from each other.
I've found it to be true in my own marriage, and it's straight from Scripture; Paul exhorted us to spend time apart so that our coming together is stronger.
His second autobiography, in actual fact, which is impressive in itself because most people’s lives don’t even warrant a first autobiography, including many who have written one.It took very few pages to grab my hand and sit me down, explaining between the lines that this was as ordinary of an autobiography as Johnny Cash was as ordinary as a man.
This autobiography didn’t necessarily feel like he was telling you his life story, but rather, it felt like he was writing a book.
