https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/608287.Jesus_Son
At some point he died when they blew up a bridge to build a dam, and he happened to be sleeping underneath it.
Or maybe that was someone else.
Maybe it was some kids from the high school found him sleeping under the bridge.
It was late and they were drunk and had just lifted a stop sign off the road and, proud of it, they thought they might try to break it over his head.
In any event, he died of some head trauma of the most religious sort, that much I know.
"I could understand how a drowning man might suddenly feel a deep thirst being quenched."Magnificent, concise writing.
Stories about people living in the corners of society.It’s like I’m sitting on the porch of a shack in the middle of nowhere, listening to the saddest old man I know tell me misremembered stories about how shitty he was when he was young.It all feels extremely real, like lives that were lived.
The stories are connected, and all share a protagonist.
It's an ethereal novella of sorts, each story like a chunk of truth torn from reality, with otherwise fiction filling in the cracks.
A poetic, disorienting book of short fiction about semi-criminals, heroin addicts and idlers squandering their lives on the fringes of urban northern Idaho. The narrator is a study in contrasts: irresponsible, irrational . . . and yet gifted with moments of almost mystical clarity.
Posted at Shelf Inflicted I wasn’t sure if I would like this collection of loosely connected stories about a young guy who is addicted to drugs, sometimes homeless, sometimes employed, and occasionally steals.
I was overwhelmed by its beautiful language and poignant passages.One of my favorite stories in this collection is Dirty Wedding, a sad and unsettling little story about abortion, loneliness, heroin addiction, and death.
Beverly Home was sad, a little humorous, and very hopeful.
The young narrator finds a part-time job in a nursing home, spies on a Mennonite couple in their bedroom, and begins a life of sobriety.
Jesus' Son: Stories, Denis JohnsonJesus' Son is a collection of short stories by American author Denis Johnson.
Contents: Car Crash While Hitchhiking; Two Men; Out on Bail; Dundun; Work; Emergency; Dirty Wedding; The Other Man; Happy Hour; Steady Hands at Seattle General; Beverly Home.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و سوم ماه نوامبر سال 2015 میلادیعنوان: پسر عیسا؛ نویسنده: دنیس جانسون؛ مترجم: پیمان خاکسار؛ تهران، زاوش، 1392، در 115 ص، شابک: 9786006846873؛ چاپ دوم: تهران، نشر چشمه، 1393، در 115 ص، شابک: 9786002292674؛مجموعه يازده داستان كوتاه است؛ با عنوان پسرعیسا؛ داستان آدم‌های حاشیه‌ که همگی زندگی‌شان را باخته‌ اند، اما داستانشان همچنان خوانشگر را شگفت‌زده می‌کند.
I'm floating this review of his quintessential masterpiece as a tip of the hat to the man who brought us some of the finest prose.
Denis Johnson is a major influence of mine, and Jesus' Son had a profound effect on me.
This was the book that showed me how far you could stretch your prose and still have it sound dynamite.
You know the main characters in this book are all unreliable narrators, but you still believe every word they say, because the stories Johnson tells are just that convincing.
Actor Will Patton narrates the stories, and does an incredible job of bringing Johnson's prose to perfection.
I stayed in the library, crushed breathless by the smoldering power of all those words—many of them unfathomable.Sometimes I judge and consequently love a book based upon the following points:- A single, beautiful line I longed to read or hear in the words of some person other than me.- A completely related character.- A completely unrelated character.- The way it makes me laugh.- The way it makes me cry.- The way it makes me feel extremely good about the life I’m leading.- The way it makes me feel rich.
Junk-sick, Broke and Completely Alone, in a Land of Bad Intentions I've gone through three copies of ‘Jesus’ Son’, reading it like a prayer-book, though it’s nothing of the kind. There's a sadness living in every sentence, and it doesn't really have any suggestions for better living, beyond a painfully obvious cautionary tale. Drugs are bad, m’kay? The cautionary tale, however, is one interpreted by the reader. It's the best kind of dangerous, like a manual for poetic self-immolation, on burnin
I've gone through three copies of ‘Jesus’ Son’, reading it like a prayer-book, though it’s nothing of the kind.
Drugs are bad, m’kay?
It's the best kind of dangerous, like a manual for poetic self-immolation, on burning yourself down to the foundation-stones and finding one beautiful thing in the ashes.
Denis Johnson’s skills as a short story writer, poet, and novelist all coalesced with ‘Jesus’ Son’, to produce a sad, funny and frightening little masterpiece.
Loosely inspired by Johnson's own experiences, the main character – Fuckhead - introduces himself with a story of hitch-hiking in the rain.
Tell me I'm fine.” ― Denis Johnson, Jesus' Son
Another story described the narrator’s best day ever, one where he and a friend made $28 each from honest labors stripping copper wire out of the friend’s abandoned house and then celebrating with their favorite bartender pouring them double shots but charging them only for singles.The last story was set at Beverly Home, a place for senile, disabled, and disfigured adults where the narrator was given a part-time job as the newsletter writer and a point of human contact for those rarely touched.
His straight and narrow path was still a little skewed, though, when he discovered a Mennonite woman who happened to time her shower every day as he passed by her place after work.
I got a mean and unworthy thought – that you could take sentences from almost anywhere in any of these stories and put them next to other randomly selected sentences and they would make as much sense, so I took something from page 20, 40, 80, 100 and 120 and proved it as follows:In the room behind her the man we’d brought stood like a bad sculpture, posing unnaturally, with his shoulders wilting, as if he couldn’t lug his gigantic hands any further.
“Do you want the police?” He thought about it and finally said “Not unless I die.” I turned away because my throat was closing up.
Excellent prose & a roaming plot to boot. These short stories together describe the grit inherent in modern America. We meet drunks & druggies, victims of crime and a vicious environment. America is rarely portrayed like this-- with so much beauty & ugliness combined. Books like these make me feel bad for hating on The Poets. This is poetic &, despite its brevity, confoundingly major. You want to read more of the narrator's misadventures: it is as addictive to the voracious reader as the drugs and booze.
I had never known, never even imagined for a heartbeat, that there might be a place for people like us.” ― Denis Johnson, 'Jesus' Son'Sometimes while reading this I thought I was reading Burroughs (just not so dark), other times J.G. Ballard (just not so cold), sometimes even Palahniuk (but with more of a poet's heart).
And sometimes the night of this novel was so dark, I couldn't see the stars, and the blood all looked black.
I didn't personally like it as much as Train Dreams, but that was just personal preference.
It felt like a painting of blood or a beautiful photograph of a corpse.
Sorry.Hope this doesn't get me kicked out of the writing program; I gather most of my fellows here sort of revere the man.
This book ruined my reading bone for a long time. I wanted every story I read, every story by every other author, to be just like the stories in Jesus' Son. But of course they weren't and aren't and they stand alone in my mind, even now. Perhaps it's the whiskey talking, but I'd go so far as to call this little book one of the greatest of my generation. Not that such superlatives carry any weight anymore. I just can't get over this book. It was my first true love.
This is a collection of short stories just tragically hip enough, just sad and bleak enough, just pretentious enough to be cuddled by literary-types.
When Johnson isn’t failing on sentence-by-sentence level, he utterly fails to deliver story, compelling characters or satisfactory conclusions.
There is so little even vaguely allegorical or referential to a messiah, holiness, religion, or even a substantive search for greater meaning is a part of this collection that it becomes paintfully obvious Jesus was a sales ploy for the book and you have to make up a reason for the title to fit, or you're dumb.
For most of his twenties, Johnson was addicted to drugs and alcohol but he quit drinking alcohol in 1978 and quit recreational drugs in 1983 and this is reflected in his writing.
I loved The Largesse of the Sea Maiden (2014) so much that I still haven’t written the review that I want to write for it and I enjoyed Resuscitation Of A Hanged Man (1991) very much, but I think Jesus' Son is only so-so.
Okay, come to think of it: maybe so.
Anyhow, if this collection had been my first experience with this author, I doubt I’d want to read more.
Thankfully, it wasn’t and I do want to read more.
I'd followed a Carson McCullers novel like a dream into the rabbit hole, shrunk and dreamed until This One woke me like a cruel Queen.
Consider me awake.Not unlike characters from the early works of McCarthy, the faces that come in and out of focus in Denis Johnson's fictional world are victims of their own misfortune, unravelling fast, doing sad and cruel things and all the while saying & thinking beautiful and stupid things.
The book is necessarily short at 133 pages, any longer and I might consider its beauty gratuitous.
And you, you ridiculous people, you expect me to help you.*"Talk into my bullet hole.
Is there a way of writing the right stories about the right people,telling everything neatly from start to finish.
An Uppercase letter starting the story and a full stop waiting at the end.
Where beautiful sentences strike you out of the blue, so beautiful that you read them again and again, flashes of lightning in a desolate sky.A sky that won't shed tears for us anymore.And if it did,I knew every raindrop by its name.Raindrops that cannot purify our soul.
Our soul that is a ghost beyond redemption running hopeless to find love.
This collection of stories is really short, but don’t let that fool you.
Each word releases so much power that an hour spent reading Jesus’ Son carries the same impact as two hours of reading another book.
Johnson throws off images like dazzling pieces of shrapnel, and for me, those gorgeous passages are what held the book together more than any actual plot.The narrator is a junkie with a life so chaotic that you always have the feeling anything could happen at any second.
All that said, I don’t believe Jesus’ Son is 100 percent deserving of its accolades.
I was left wanting more…I don’t know…more to think about maybe.
هنوز به یک بخش از وجودش اجازه نداده بود متولد شود، چون برای یک چنین جایی زیادی زیبا بود.
نمرهای که این کتاب از ایرانیها گرفته به مراتب پایینتر از نمرهایه که دیگران بهش دادن.
این به نظرم چند علت داره.
1. در درجه اول ترجمهی بیوسواسِ پیمان خاکسر، که البته نسبت به کارهای دیگهای که ازش خوندهم بهتر بود .2.
نشناختن این شیوه از روایت توسط مخاطب ایرانی.3.
جدا بودن جو فکری ایرانیها (در دورهی تالیف کتاب) از فضای فکری دنیا، به علت جنگ و قبلترش انقلاب.
این باعث میشه ما به ازا و مصداق واضحی از روایت توی ذهن م
نمره‌ای که این کتاب از ایرانیها گرفته به مراتب پایینتر از نمره‌ایه که دیگران بهش دادن.
این به نظرم چند علت داره.
نشناختن این شیوه از روایت توسط مخاطب ایرانی.3.
جدا بودن جو فکری ایرانی‌ها (در دوره‌ی تالیف کتاب) از فضای فکری دنیا، به علت جنگ و قبلترش انقلاب.
این باعث می‌شه ما به ازا و مصداق واضحی از روایت توی ذهن مخاطب نباشه.4.
شگرد-دوست بودن مخاطب‌های غیرایرانی.5.
تلخی واضح و آزارنده‌ی تصاویر و مفاهیم، که چون کلیت متن توسط مخاطب متوسط به راحتی درک نمی‌شه، ممکنه توی ذوق بزنه.داستان‌های آخر فوق‌العاده بودن.
با اینکه همیشه با کمّی کردن کیفیات مخالفت اکید دارم، به این کتاب پنج ستاره میدم.
داستان نویس های زیادی رو دیدم که خواستن از این کتاب سرمشق بگیرن اما مایی که از ترس سرطان گرفتن کم سیگار می کشیم و سالی چهار بار ترک می کنیم، نباید از خودمون توقع داشته باشیم مثل کسی بنویسیم که روزگاری توی دارالمجانین و کمپ های ترک اعتیاد زندگی کرده.کسی که شب از بی پولی توی خیابون نخوابیده باشه چطور می تونه از دربه دری داستان بنویسه؟
Dennis Johnson has a good way to describe things and has placed trouble riddled characters amongst some literal beauty.A collection of stories tied together with a common theme of struggle and drugs.He brings your eyes into the lives of characters on this earth with problems.The few stories I mention are... Car crash while hitchhiking As the title say a powerful descriptive story where a hitchhiker is involved in an accident with a family including a baby.Visceral and shows very well all that th
Dennis Johnson has a good way to describe things and has placed trouble riddled characters amongst some literal beauty.A collection of stories tied together with a common theme of struggle and drugs.He brings your eyes into the lives of characters on this earth with problems.The few stories I mention are...
Time passes places is gone they drift more into heroine and stealing they live a dangerous life one of them the two friends doesn't make it through life safely.Good tight story.
Maybe the better story of the collection along with emergency.The main character has taken a job at a home for the terminally ill and sick.
Un recorrido, capturando momentos, vidas rotas, desamparo, enajenación y destinos robados. Una colección de sueños e ilusiones, desde el punto solitario de individuos que desean el amor pero son incapaces de tocarlo sin herirlo. Son quemados por la pasión, lo que no entienden y lo que quieren pero no pueden tener.
Last Exit to Brooklyn in the boonies is what Jesus' Son feels like.
I like both, but Jesus' Son avoids Last Exit's desperate shock tactics; my problem with that book was that every story basically ended, like, "and then everyone got raped," and it felt a little obvious.
Plus I like that "Jesus' Son" is from the Velvet Underground song "Heroin."The thing with Fuckhead is that he has no self-esteem at all.
I've dipped a toe or two into low self-esteem, at moments in my life.
Paradoxically, so, this book feels like a little light.
براي من كتاب جالبي نبود.باز هم گول پيمان خاكسار و تعاريفش از كتاب هايي كه ترجمه ميكنه رو خوردم.خريد اين كتاب مثل اينه كه بريد كافي شاپ و از ميان ٢٠ تا عنوانِ متنوع ،فقط آب معدني سفارش بديد.از يازده داستان كوتاه فقط دو تاي آخر برام جالب بودن.(دستان بي لرزش در تيمارستان عمومي سياتل وخانه بورلي).اما در كل نويسنده خيلي شجاعانه دست به اعتراف به اعتياد و بدبخت بودنش توي اون زمان ميزنه. داستان ها سر ته درست و حسابي نداشت و در كل از خواندن كتاب لذت نبردم.
همونطور که گفتم توی ادبیات روایت های مربوط به افراد معتاد، قرص مصرف کرده، الکلی و متوهم کم داریم و این کتاب که به نظر میاد مجموعه داستان به هم پیوسته است و راوی کل داستان ها یه پسر جوونه.
سوم هم علاقه ی عجیب شخصیت به روزهای آفتابی یا نور خورشید که توی بیشتر داستان ها تکرار شده.به شخصه نوع تحلیل های این پسر از دنیا و وقایعش که یه نوعی من رو یاد نوع تفکر شخصیت اصلی کتاب عامه پسند بوکفسکی می انداخت، برام دلنشین بود.
داستان اول با تصادف پسر شروع می شه و در انتهاش ما متوجه می شیم که اون رو توی بیمارستان نگه می دارن و دچار توهم شده.
شاید هیچ معتادی توی دنیا بعد از ترک اعتیاد به اندازهی دنیس جانسون از تجربههای زیستهاش اینقدر استفادهی مفید نکرده باشد که همه را بردارد و بگذارد توی یک مجموعه داستان مُدرن، پر از توصیفات امپرسیونیستی. تصویرهایی که در تضاد شدیدی با فضای شلوغ و سیاه آمریکای دههی هشتاد و نود هستند و همین تضاد شکل غریب و بکری به توصیفات داستانها داده و انگار نویسنده آنها را جایی در ماورای واقعیت بیرونی نوشته. پیشنهاد میکنم داستانهای «تصادف موقع هیچهایک» و «کار» را به شکل ویژهتری بخوانید؛آب در شیارهای آسفالت با سروصدا
تصویرهایی که در تضاد شدیدی با فضای شلوغ و سیاه آمریکای دهه‌ی هشتاد و نود هستند و همین تضاد شکل غریب و بکری به توصیفات داستان‌ها داده و انگار نویسنده آن‌ها را جایی در ماورای واقعیت بیرونی نوشته.
پیشنهاد می‌کنم داستان‌های «تصادف موقع هیچ‌هایک» و «کار» را به شکل ویژه‌تری بخوانید؛آب در شیارهای آسفالت با سروصدا جاری بود.
به خاطر قرص‌هایی که فروشنده‌ی سیار به خوردم داده بود احساس می‌کردم یکی دارد روی آستر رگ‌هایم ناخن می‌کشد.
می‌دانستم که یک اولدزموبیل برایم خواهد ایستاد.
حتا قبل از این‌که آهسته کند از صدای شیرین خانواده‌ی درون ماشین می‌دانستم که در توفان تصادف خواهیم کرد.
کتاب انقدر تشبیهات و استعاره های ناب داره که حتی ترجمه بد خاکسار هم نمی تونه خرابش کنهخط سیر داستان 
بابا چقد خوب بود. چقد ریویوهای اینجا هم خوبه. دیدم هرچی میخواسم من بگم، بهترشو بقیه گفتن. پسرعیسا رو توی یه روز بارونی و تعطیلم خوندم، با هر داستان بیشتر جذبش میشدم. تصویرسازیهای طبیعی و ناب در کنار روایت تکهتکه و تارانتینویی که با هوشمندی لایههای مخفیش رو آروم باز میکرد و دیالوگهای عالی. در دیالوگ عالیه، طوری که اگه فیلمش ساخته بشه هم موفق خواهد بود. دیدم یکی از بچهها گفته بود یکی این کتابو برسونه به دست تارانتینو. آره واقعاً. :))از کتابهاییه که بازم بهش مراجعه میکنم. خیلی جرئت و خودآگاهی میخوا
بابا چقد خوب بود.
چقد ریویوهای اینجا هم خوبه.
دیدم هرچی می‌خواسم من بگم، بهترشو بقیه گفتن.
پسرعیسا رو توی یه روز بارونی و تعطیلم خوندم، با هر داستان بیشتر جذبش می‌شدم.
تصویرسازی‌های طبیعی و ناب در کنار روایت تکه‌تکه و تارانتینویی که با هوشمندی لایه‌های مخفیش رو آروم‌ باز می‌کرد و دیالوگ‌های عالی.
در دیالوگ عالیه، طوری که اگه فیلمش ساخته بشه هم موفق خواهد بود.
دیدم یکی از بچه‌ها گفته بود یکی این کتابو برسونه به دست تارانتینو.
آره واقعاً.
:))از کتاب‌هاییه که بازم بهش مراجعه می‌کنم.
اونم با این انسجام و تکنیک.
Or We Shall All Be Healed is actually Jesus' Son: The Musical!.
Either way._____Note: In "The Art of Reading Denis Johnson" (Poets and Writers, Nov/Dec 2013, pgs.
Burroughs...want to be fiction writers but have never read Henry James".
But despite the snarky attitude, "The Art of Reading Denis Johnson" is worth tracking down if you see an old pile of Poets and Writers magazines, or are spinning at the microfiche machine wondering what to call up on-screen with that beautiful antique, as the article's author makes some helpful parallels between Johnson's novel and the works of Hemingway and Flannery O'Connor.
