https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11212280-poems-by-emily-dickinson-series-one
The heart asks pleasure first, And then, excuse from pain; And then, those little anodynes That deaden suffering; And then, to go to sleep; And then, if it should be The will of its Inquisitor, The liberty to die.
To review Emily's poetry feels like a slight injustice.
As, I read her poems, moments of my life flashed by.
Not what was happening in those moments, but what I felt then.
It must be the questions.
She asks me a lot of questions and I can't differentiate between her or me.
But what of it?My gaze lingers on the page, I read it a few times more.Then shrug it off and go to bed,but wake up feeling sore.
I wish I could just hobble ondrown your raging blaze,then I see I'm burning myselffor smooth and cold is your gaze
I have repeated from time to time on this site that I was not a big fan of 19th century literature as far as America and western Europe were concerned.
Well, even I can have exceptions and the poetry of Emily Dickinson is one of those exceptions.
Is it the way she deals so precisely with the subject matter of each of her poems?
Far be it from me to explain, but her poems keep me wanting to read another one, and since this is just her first volume (published posthumously) I will definitely be reviewing volume 2 as well.
I hide myself within my flower,That wearing on your breast,You, unsuspecting, wear me too--And angels know the rest.I hide myself within my flower,That, fading from your vase,You, unsuspecting, feel for meAlmost a loneliness.- VII
Dickinson’s irony rarely lights up these insipid poems with their Puritan God and romanticized nature.
Emily Dickinson: the handheld sublimeWords for no one but herself; most humble, chapped, resembling a pocket of careworn pennies. And in that: transcendence! Scene.
Emily Dickinson is one of my favorite poets. Her poems can be more spiritual than most, but she has very unique descriptions and how she sees the world. Her poems are very quick to read and are easy on the eyes. I can guarantee that will enjoy some of her poems! I will definitely be reading her second and third series!!
From In Vain :"I cannot live with you, It would be life, And life is over there Behind the shelf"This volume is partitioned thematically and the last section contains several of Dickinson's musings on death, which is one of the more recurring themes of her works, and to say that reading them was unnerving is a slight understatement.
I will never forget the effect the following poem had on me the first time I read it, which was in college: Because I could not stop for Death,He kindly stopped for me;The carriage held but just ourselvesAnd Immortality.We slowly drove, he knew no haste,And I had put awayMy labor, and my leisure too,For his civility.We passed the school where children played,Their lessons scarcely done;We passed the fields of gazing grain,We passed the setting sun.We paused before a house that seemedA swelling of the ground;The roof was scarcely visible,The cornice but a mound.Since then 't is centuries; but eachFeels shorter than the dayI first surmised the horses' headsWere toward eternity.The above poem is contained in this collection as well as one of my two Dickinson favorites (the other being, of course, There is no Frigate like a Book…)—If I can stop one heart from breaking,I shall not live in vain;If I can ease one life the aching,Or cool one pain,Or help one fainting robinUnto his nest again,I shall not live in vain.This collection, which I downloaded from project Gutenberg combines two of her favorite topics, nature and death.
Yes, I knew she was a famous poet, but I had never spent any time reading her work, nor could I identify any poem as belonging to her.
I am not an expert on poetry, and poems either resonate with me, or they don’t.
A poem could be a brilliant work of art, but for me it is just mediocrity.
Yet other poems, which may not be brilliant at all to others, can tend to resonate with me.
Such is the relationship between poetry and me.Some of the poems of Emily Dickinson resonated with me, some did not.
I never really consider Poetry books as 'read'. For me it is always and ongoing process of discovery. Take this book for example; I've had it for years but never really read through. I have my favorites though that I read over and over:THE heart asks pleasure first,And then, excuse from pain;And then, those little anodynesThat deaden suffering;And then, to go to sleep;And then, if it should beThe will of its Inquisitor,The liberty to die.
Some personal highlights:“Pain has an element of blank;It cannot recollectWhen it began, or if there wereA day when it was not.It has no future but itself,Its infinite realms containIts past, enlightened to perceiveNew periods of pain.”“A precious, mouldering pleasure ’t isTo meet an antique book”“Because I could not stop for Death,He kindly stopped for me;The carriage held but just ourselvesAnd Immortality.”
One of my favorites was; “Some things that fly there be, —Birds, hours, the bumble-bee:Of these no elegy.Some things that stay there be, —Grief, hills, eternity:Nor this behooveth me.There are, that resting, rise.Can I expound the skies?How still the riddle lies!”
It is truly beautiful how many quotes you can extract from her poems. I decided that she's my favourite poet of all times.
If I had to describe the poems I just read with one word - I'd say beautiful. I'll admit that I don't really read poetry but after watching A Quiet Passion, I decided that it's high time I read some of Emily Dickinson's works, because I had this feeling that I'd really love them.And let me just say that if you want to read some beautiful, gentle and melodic poems - Emily Dickinson is definitely a great choice.
This is my letter to the world,           That never wrote to me,         The simple news that Nature told,           With tender majesty.        Her message is committed           To hands I cannot see;        For love of her, sweet countrymen,           Judge tenderly of me!
I do not know why or from where I got this series but it is a good delight. Series One was easy, romantic and unique.This is a good surprise and now I am eager to read Series Two and Three.
It's hard to read these poems and ignore her influence in many poets. At the same time, it's also hard to read them and ignore how contemporary her poems still are.
I can’t believe I’ve never read Dickinson’s work. I plan to read volumes 2 and 3 next.
Even though I didn't like every single one of the poems I found a few which I adored and the rhythm, the themes and words really touched me. Definitely want to read more of her poetry.
This is the shortest and closest I could find since I read this in English 1C Introduction to literature and we read "I dwell in possibility" COUNTLESS TIMES!
Emily Dickinson has always been my favorite poet and always will be. I have a folder full of my favorite poems that I have collected over the years and they are nearly all hers. Her poems are full of wit, sass, intellect, insight and more. She was incredibly talented.

Lately, I noticed that reading it aloud or listening to other people reading poetry makes it more accessible for me, so I tried that.In my quest to find poetry that I'd enjoy, I came across this copy of Emily Dickinson and thought I could try it.I actually enjoyed it more than I thought I would.
To be honest, I found the pacing of quite a few poems off and rather odd, but I also thoroughly enjoyed (and highlighted) a lot of them.Especially one found its way to my heart and buried itself there:He ate and drank the preciouswords,His spirit grew robust;He knew no more that he was poor,Nor that his frame was dust.He dancend along the dingy days,And his bequest of wingsWas but a book.
The Grass so little has to do –by Emily DickinsonThe Grass so little has to do –A Sphere of simple G
This book is a collection of Emily Dickinson poems.
I really enjoyed reading these poems, even though I couldn't understand some of them.
I had to keep my phone next to me while reading it so I could look up the words I didn't know--and there were a lot.
But the ones I could understand I enjoyed and once I deciphered the ones I couldn't understand, I enjoyed those as well.
I would not recommend if you don't like looking up words while you're reading or deciphering poems.
If you do, then I recommend!
Overall, I enjoyed it!
This may be the first poetry book I have read that was not required for school, which I have been out of for quite a while.
There was such a wide variety of poems, so I came across some I liked, and some I didn't.
I was intimidated by the book before I started reading it.
I was worried I was not going to be able to follow the poems, or even understand them.
I'll be honest thought and say poetry is not my favorite, but if you are thinking about reading this, definitely give it a try.
You'll find something you will like.
Wow, that was a good pleasure!These lovely poems should be read on sunset, on a romantic beach, along with a tasty cup of good coffee! -- with slow music for sure:) that would be perfect!Emily Dickinson was a romantic soul. Her poems say that. They were easy, and totally charming.I highly recommend them. If you like to take a break from your heavy noisy grey life, then you should read them - they are the cure! They will put you in a world full of colors.
I'll have to find a text copy of this! The reader of the version I listened to seemed like he was having issues with pronouncing some words and transitioning from one poem to the next. Like he was reading it all in one sitting. Otherwise, I really enjoyed this collection of Emily Dickinson poems. I found it on YouTube and it's also available on librivox.org to download for free!
The depth that you find in Emily's writing is what you can't find in any prose. The work that she could do in such young age, is astonishing. Most of her work remains relevant even today, and shall remember the same for the coming generations. Her poetry is filling, it fills your soul. In this one, I love how her poems touch the point of grief, sadness and death of a loved one.
