https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/949252.Meet_the_Malones
The Malones - Elizabeth (now married), Mary Fred, Johnny, Beany and almost always absent father Martie Malone - are an Irish Catholic family living in Denver, just prior to World War II.
Here was Johnny in just as much of a jam with the repairs on a Wyoming truck to pay for.Why couldn't the three of them, Johnny, Beany, and Mary Fred, divide the work?"For me, brought up very frugally and often concocting odd projects to economize, these books were irresistible.
I wavered between attaching a 3 or a 4 to this book, but in the end, I gave it a 4, because *by* the end, I really cared what was happening to these characters.
The Janet Lamberts to a degree and this Malone book strike me as having a larger dose of slang, peppered all throughout the narrative, and end up feeling more dated than the BTs because of it.That's along preamble to the heart of what I want to say, which is that I very much enjoyed the book by the end.
I am anxious to read more of the Beany books now, although I hope we don't move on to Beany so much that we lose Mary Fred as a character?
I always wondered why LMW abandoned Mary Fred as her main heroine after this book and focused on Beany instead, but I guess Beany was more fallible and thus more interesting. Mary Fred sometimes pissed me off in subsequent books because she was so charmingly imperfect.
I can't think of any other childrens'/YA books set in Colorado and I can't wait to read more of these.I understand from other readers that Meet the Malones is not the best in the series.
I'm sure that Lenora Mattingly Weber settled into the series after a few books, and I know that better storytelling is yet to come with each successive book.
I look forward to the next books in the series to see if these characters get more "page" time.
There's a lot here to like.
I especially liked the Catholicism of the family- that's a religion that gets a lot of ink via memoirs but in my experience, not so much in kidlit or YA.
As a kid I knew way more about Jews and Episcopalians than I did about Catholics.
When the father tells his kids that their house must always be open for the soldiers to visit, I admit to tearing up a bit.
The wicked stepgrandmother was a bit too wicked, the saintly father a hair too saintly- all the characters were a little too much themselves, I think.
Why did I not know about this series??
I'm giving 5 stars just because that's what I would have given it when I was twelve.
However...this book was obviously written long before the "Back to Sleep" campaign for infants!
Elizabeth's baby sleeps in a makeshift crib consisting of two armchairs pushed together with a pillow added for good measure.
If that's not enough, she describes a nightgown that she makes for the baby as having too large of a neckline.
Luckily her husband has the brilliant idea of adding a DRAWSTRING!!
That's why this series is going to earn a place of honor on my "from-a-different-place-and-time" shelf.
I love this more every time I read it. This time, I picked up the phrase "Annie Oakley" for a free ticket to an event. Love the British children sent to the US for the war, love to hate Nonna, Love Beany's insistence on yellow gingham curtains and blue walls. In fact, I may have to decorate a bedroom that way one day. May reread the entire series in preparation for the Weber event at the Denver Public Library in 2/18.
I read straight through the entire collection of Beany Malone books. I enjoy visiting a time when life was a little slower. Miss Mattingly gives her characters challenges and they rise to the occasion.
Oh my golly molly what a little hummer!
This was one of my favorite series when I was in junior high.
The Malones' widowed father is a newspaperman who gets sent to Hawaii to cover the war.
The teen-aged Malones agree to take over all the household chores & cooking in their father's absence in order to earn money - Mary Fred to pay for her horse & his feed, Johnny for a new typewriter, and Beany for a room make-over.
Their step-grandmother arrives & gives the children what they had been working for and they learn that "the highest price you can pay for a thing is to get it for nothing."
I tried reading this before, and didn't get anywhere, but then as I started to read it again it came much more clearly.
I found it very confusing at some parts, because at some point I was "what?" and "Who's this again?" and "I don't get why they even mentioned this because it seems to have no part in the story," and stuff like that.
Being a horse lover, I loved Mr. Chips.
I was so angry with Nonna when she sold Mr. Chips without Mary Fred's permission!
Certainly Nonna isn't my favorite character now.
I really enjoyed reading this book.

This is an old favorite!
I was recently reminded of the series while reading "Don't Bother Me - I'm Reading" and the description of it was quite different than what I remembered.
So I thought I would refresh my memory!
I named one of my favorite dogs after the main character, Beany Malone.
On this "adult" reading, I found I liked her sister Mary Fred better!
- a walk down memory lane ........
I think I can see where I got some of my "dutiful, what's right" ideas from this series.
The Malones did have a bit of a tendency to be martyrs, albeit cheerful ones!
Woefully predictable plot, not the most well rounded characters, reality is hopelessly idealized, and yet I kinda love this book. I don't remember the dumb stuff, I remember the glowing moments of family love and friendship tucked here and there. The writing is not poetic, yet the moments somehow manage to be. This book's brain may not be the best, and its appearance won't win any awards, but its heart is true.
I think I was 11 years old when I first "met" the Malones. I devoured every book in the series that summer, heading straight for the W shelves at the local library every week. Beany Malone was my best friend for a while. I knew what she was thinking before she thought it. Yes, it was a very nice addiction. Seeing this cover again brought back some sweet memories of learning to escape into a book.
I didn't come to the Weber YA books until I was an adult, but have liked them a great deal. This first in the Beany Malone series is actually not typical since Beany is a "supporting" character, rather than the main one. Set during the early days of WW II, there are some (now) odd things, but the story is a good one.
Somehow, I missed reading these as a child. When my grandfather told me that LMW lived just down the street from him, I promptly tracked down her books and learned something about the Malone family. At this point, I'd like to say that I got the chance to talk with her, but that didn't happen. My life was totally paced around my work and travel schedule. Another opportunity lost!
These books make me laugh. Not because they are funny, but merely because sometimes they are about the cheesiest of topics, but they are still better than a lot of new books. Meet the Malones gets four stars...it really is a five star book, but Mary Fred is not a very interesting character, frankly. The rest of the series is about Beany. I read these over and over again and never tire.
Found this in an outgoing bucket at the library. I loved the old fashioned cover. I remembered it at once when I started reading. I read the first three quarters of it in a flash and then slowed down to enjoy the rest. I'll be looking for the others in the series. I'm glad to have found them again.
Just as good as I remember it!This is young lit.at its best! Great characters, fun plot, life lessons without being preachy, and elevated vocabulary. This particular writer writes vibrant descriptions which pull the reader into her world.
These books are continually recommended by some of my favorite people. I've tried one other Beany book and wasn't impressed. Still not captivated or charmed, so will probably stop being curious about these. They recommend so many things--I can't like everything they like!
This book is very cute and fun, even if it is very predictable in parts…and some characters seem a little too caricature-ish. All in all, it’s an enjoyable comfort read about a family learning and making-do on the home front.
The Reading Promise - Book 1.
This was a favorite book when I was in my early teens and I've enjoyed reading it over again from time to time over the years.
I had the set growing up and I have to say that it is the BEST teen girl series!!
Feeling nostalgic and checking out some favorites from my pre teems. Loved this series and I can see why. The whole family thing.
I loved these books when I was a teenager, even though they were already quite dated.
Charming and fun. This is more what I wanted the Melendys to be like.
The onset of WWII adds a bit of weight to an otherwise fairly vanilla YA before there was YA kick off.
Feels like this might be the prototype for the stereotypical jock character, so I do wonder how much of this was fresh and different in the early 40s (like one of those people who complains about Tolkien being like so many other later written fantasies they've read).
The "moral" of the story felt a bit hammered in.
Very much part of the pull-yourself-up-by-by-your-own-bootstraps mentality.
There are people who manipulate family through the purse strings, but the all or nothing mentality seemed like overkill.
A return to my 10-year old self’s reading list — while I probably would have given it 4 stars back then, it is three star worthy now. The times have changed so much (for the better), that some of the references in the book are jarring. But the Malone kids are still resourceful and fun.
