https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/304032.The_Gastronomical_Me
"The baker had a fight with the chef soon after we left port, and the barber took over all the pastry making..."Mary Frances had the perfect recipe for blending food writing and autobiography.
[A big chunk of this part of the book was lifted wholesale and plopped into a much later memoir, Long Ago in France, which I read a few months ago.
Mary Frances started a new relationship while in the process of divorcing her husband.
I've tried to read some of M.F.K.'s other books which are devoted strictly to food.
I really wanted to like this.
Had been intrigued by MFK Fisher and was looking forward to finally reading her.
While there were parts that I enjoyed, in her descriptions of food and relations with others, most of it I didn't like.
And I really didn't like her.
I realize it was written 70 years ago, but she was really full of herself.
One minute she's madly in love with husband Al, and the next, in referring to a woman they boarded with, she says they both got divorces in the same year.
Won't be reading her further.
I don't know how I stumbled upon MFK Fisher, but now that I have, I don't know how I missed her. She is a premier food writer, and a must-read for anyone who loves foodie-type books. This one is about her early food years.
This is the way food writing should be done. In her careful, spare, elegant way, Fisher uses food to write about everything else that means anything in life: love, war, death, and second chances. One of the most beautiful works of modern English.
Agree with Connie that some of the early chapters are particularly lovely.
And a charming description of lettuce, cream cheese and anchovy, and ginger ale orgies that she, her cousin, and her cousin's roommate indulged in at their faraway Illinois college in 1927-1928:"We would lock the door, and mix the cheese and anchovy together and open the ginger ale.
Now and then one or another of us would get up, go to a window and open it, bare her little breasts to the cold sweep of air, and intone dramatically, "Pneu-mo-o-o-onia!" Then we would all burst into completely helpless giggles, until we had laughed enough to hold a little more lettuce." It occurs to me that this is not so different from some of my own college experiences.
But a lot of it's not actually about food.
Her writing is, for me, very reminiscent of comfort food, actually.
(I actually looked this book u because I once read an essay by Fisher about the joys of mashed potatoes and ketchup that was one of the most vivid, sensuous things I've ever read.) That said, in between all the food is a lot of weird stuff: homicidal cooks, weird facts about her physical reactions to sea travel, anecdotes about her landladies and husbands and World War II and naked exchange students and all manner of other things.
I also consumed a few extra bottles of wine and the only thing missing was the extraordinary food that is not usually available on the income of college students.
Although I had to settle for cheese and crackers with my wine, MFK Fisher’s collection of essay seated me next to her on this trip back in time.Fisher’s writing style is charming and quite picturesque.
The other dishes had my mouth watering and my soul craving that fabulous experience of real food, on real plates, surrounded by real people.
I contracted indigestion several times simply by marveling at the amount of food this woman could consume in one sitting.
I had not forgotten Fisher and her writing, but I had jumbled The Gastronomical Me together with the other four books in The Art of Eating.
This time round, I am reading this memoir because my book group is discussing it.Fisher must have been a fascinating friend.
Given all the food books that have been written since Fisher started, I think her essays hold up very well.It has been almost 30 years since I last read this book.
I hope this won't spoil my love of Fisher's food writing.If you have read Tender at the Bone, Animal, Vegetable, Miracle or The Omnivore's Dilemma, you might want to read this memoir.

This unusual and lovely book by legendary food writer, MFK Fisher, was a revelation to me.
Through her voluptuous descriptions of food, she creates atmospheric descriptions of the places where she ate, and moving portraits of the people with whom she shared these meals.
The prose is exquisite, and Fisher' s approach to life is adventurous, stoic, and ahead of her time.
This is the best kind of food writing--the kind that addresses our deeper human hunger for love, independence, art, and beauty.
Seriously - I hate reading/talking/listening about food.
I just like eating food.
But then this turned out to not really be a "foodie" (I also hate that word) thing, and so I was actually liking it.
Like, basically it seems like you're reading a bunch of blog entries.
Which is great for blogs, less so for books.
I wanted editorial cohesiveness so badly, and I got none, but she does have some great passages and interesting ideas, and you get to figure out how she really came into being a confident adult self by tasting new foods, cultures, and people.
An odd book. There seemed to be a lot that was interesting going on in the background, rather than the foreground of this memoir.
To create a truly excellent dish quality ingredients must be used, certainly, but more important are the skilled hand, the discerning palate, and the acquired wisdom of a good cook. M.F.K. Fisher was just such a cook, not only in her various kitchens, but as she stirred and seasoned the events in her life, and most of all perhaps when she served her literary concoctions to the widest range of guests she had ever encountered, the reading public. It is in this spirit that she wrote The Gastronomi
So her tranquil childhood passes in a series of vignettes that include the summer ritual of canning, a roadside dinner with her little sister and father, a casserole disaster, a review of a few household cooks, and finally a cross country train ride (as seen from the dining car of course) and ends with a flourish in a New York city restaurant.
There are great moments when Fisher herself shines through, and we see that she is more than just the hostess at the banquet of her life, that she has a profound sense of the location of that banquet and the circumstances outside of her own charmed circle, as when she writes in the last chapter:	“…I knew all there was for me to know about Jaunito.
MFK Fisher is my favourite food writer - for her, a plate is always a thing of the world, not just a meal on it's own; she makes her reader vividly taste the food, but also the setting, the conversation at the table, the mood of the day. She's smart, big-mouthed, funny as hell, and at her best in this memoir about travelling in Europe to discover her taste for living, loving, eating, and meeting brilliant people. Favourite part - her lessons on how to travel, be, and eat alone.
"I still think that one of the pleasantest of all emotions is to know that I, I with my brain and my hands, have nourished my beloved few, that I have concocted a stew or a story, a rarity or a plain dish, to sustain them truly against the hungers of the world."Food writing was an entire genre of the craft that, until reading Ruby Tandoh's excellent Eat Up!
One of the most wonderful things about food is that years later you can eat a certain meal or taste a certain flavour, and BAM just like that you're transported to a significant moment in your life.
So much alcohol and so much blind privilege, but nobody writes like M.F.K. Fisher, whose voice rattles in your head long after the book is put away.
I thoroughly enjoyed parts of it, but the other parts unfortunately consisted of the driest prose it’s ever been my displeasure to wade through.
As she recounts memorable meals shared with an assortment of eccentric and fascinating characters, set against a backdrop of mounting pre-war tensions, we witness the formation not only of her taste but of her character and her prodigious talent."I'm still not sure what I think of this book; it's so strange and the mood quite puzzling.
There aren't any specific recipes, so it's basically just a chronicle of Fisher's gastronomic adventures, starting from her early childhood and eventually moving on to France (Djon).I picked up The Gastronomical Me while browsing; I love food and reading mouthwatering food descriptions, and I had also heard the book described as being brilliant and about so much more than food.
I love to read food writing: both non-fiction and fiction.
Many regard her as one of the best food writers.Fisher's The Gastronomical Me is a collection of autobiographical essays that cover time from 1912 through 1941.
It seems impossible, but the fact remains that it was one of the keenest gastronomic moments of my life.Through Fisher's essays we travel back and forth by sea from the US to Europe and South America.
While all of the essays in this book aren't food-centric, the points in which she does write about food in this collection were stellar.
I recommend this essay collection to anyone interested in travel and food writing.
but books like these remind me what both can be, at their best: simple exquisite pleasure.I tell about myself, and how I ate bread on a lasting hillside, or drank red wine in a room now blown to bits, and it happens without my willing it that I am telling too about the people with me then, and their other deeper needs for love and happiness.There is food in the bowl, and more often than not, because of what honesty I have, there is nourishment in the heart, to feed the wilder, more insistent hungers.
When I showed this book to a member of our book club, she commented, “Yes, we should read her.” When I looked up MFK Fisher on the internet, I was very surprised to see her called a “Food Writer”.
I had thought “The Gastronomical Me” was an exception, a book with the theme of food, which isn’t actually a theme of food!
Reading further, I see that she did write other things, but was most successful with food writing.“The Gastronomical Me” is a series of autobiographical vignettes, spanning from 1912 to 1941, but of particular interest during the pre-WWII years of 1935-1939.
If it had all been as good as those chapters on either end, it would have been a nearly perfect book.
Still, I loved it as it was.The book is a memoir, told almost exclusively through descriptions of food, eating, etc.
And along the way, she has plenty to say about the food.I loved the book.
I read it for an online book group, alongside Ruth Reichl's Garlic & Sapphires (which I also enjoyed, though not as much as this one).
I'll let Ms. Fisher speak for herself when she responds to the question of why she writes about food and hunger rather than wars and love: "There is a communion of more than our bodies when bread is broken and wine is drunk." Or, "I still think that one of the pleasantest of all emotions is to know that I, with my brain and my hands, have nourished my beloved few...to sustain them truly against the hungers of the world." She writes these little missives in vignettes (read: short chapters) about her experiences through life, ranging from WWI America as a child to occupied France as a woman in love.
My first MFK Fisher.
To read this book, a memoir through food, much of it taking place in the Dijon region, while on holiday in France, made my summer eating all the more vivid.
In the Extremadura region I ate a partridge stew.
It tasted of the country...most everything on the menu had been crawling around the dry, rolling hills — partridge, boar, hare.
And it is all lovely and fresh.
Fisher is also not afraid to be bitchy...to call her landlady stupid, but that that was why she loved her.
And she makes you think about your own childhood food memories.
In the early chapters MLK uses food as an induction to French life and married life.
Several chapters (some of my favorites) are about the eerieness of life at limbo and at sea - and she grasps at food like a life preserver.
She's one of the most fantastic prosists I've ever read, and I want to emulate her, but alas, I'm not that good.My only complaints: There's no explanation of the chapter headings and why so many are the same.
If you think of it like piecing together an understanding of a life through a collection of letters, as opposed to reading a novel where everything's served up on a silver platter, it's easier to swallow.
She doesn't mince words, doesn't protect you from life's realities, but she rewards you with such beautiful feasts both real and metaphorical that it's impossible not to feel that in this book lies proof that life - though fleeting and sometimes agonizing - is worth the struggle and celebrations along the way.
Further, that each meal, no matter how small or briefly enjoyed, is a precious pause worth savoring.
And though I was deeply bummed when the book was done, I'm pleased that I get to savor it a bit once again every time I tuck into a marvelous meal.
Few readers have heard of M.F.K. Fisher.
Food writing seems incidental to this book, because Fisher spoons it out in very small portions while regaling her readers with tales about the French way of life.
Along the way, she writes about her turn-of-the century girlhood in California, moving to Dijon, pre-war tensions in the twenties and thirties, the dissolution of her first marriage and the tragic death of her second husband.
I absolutely devoured this book, and would recommend it to anyone who has an appreciation for a life well-lived, and a story well-told.
Wonderful book; excellent writing.
Best enjoyed slowly and piece by piece (yes, like food).
The beginning essays, about being young and discovering food and life and what it all means, are absolutely lovely.
Also, M.F.K.’s writing has a (somewhat Didion-esque) matter-of-fact privilege and condescension about it that one has to get used to, and sometimes she takes it a little far both in content and in tone (particularly in the numerous passages where she outright talks about people being jealous of her, even though it was probably true).
There is a strange, almost dreamlike quality to this book.
While it is autobiographical, it is nothing as prosaic as a straightforward account of her life.
Instead, it is a sequence (in mostly chronological order) of vividly recounted experiences - each one full of meaning (although sometimes what it meant escaped me).
The background to each was never explained and it jumps from one to the next with only tenuous connections, just like a dream sequence.
The only common theme is (obviously) the detailed, sensuous recounting of the (copious quantities) of food and drink she consumed.
Reading this was altogether an odd experience.
She lists the foods she ate but she focuses more on the people and conversations and situations and I LOVED that.
While that was an unexpected surprise, it also made it hard to concentrate on the book.
The book sort of jumps around and skips chunks of her life so all of a sudden you think-where did this guy come from?
I had previously read about her life, so I knew, but new readers may be stymied.
Also, this book will make you hungry.
I don't know how she stayed so thin and ate so much.
I gained 10 pounds just reading it!
