https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311190.Penhallow
I was undecided about my rating for Penhallow, but finally decided to rate based on the fact this is an excellent, but flawed book.Now, this isn't what I felt the first couple of times I read it!
Likewise I'm not altogether satisfied with the ambitious servant Loveday's character development.I wouldn't read this one of you are looking for the usual Heyer comfort read.
She is adamant that contrary to what many of the Heyer family & friends have said, GH didn't write this novel as a contract breaker - she was actually very proud of it.
The patriarch would have been found dead near the beginning of the story, and as his death was investigated, the family member's various secrets would continue to come to light in one twist after another, with the police officer finally discovering the one crucial clue that pointed to the murderer.
But because Heyer, like the majestic honey badger, simply does not give a fuck, the story goes backwards.
Heyer shows us the scene where the murderer poisons Penhallow, and then goes on with her story.
When the police come to investigate the poisioning of Adam Penhallow, they find no shortage of suspects.Ultimately this is not a novel where the focus is placed on solving the crime, in fact we are actually informed who the murderer is.
There is a beautifully written storyline featuring Penhallow's oldest son Raymond, which will stay with you beyond the close of the book.Penhallow is one of my favourite Georgette Heyer novels.
Home is not a sanctuary in this novel, and Heyer examines the hidden tyrannies and opression that even strong-willed people (as most of the Penhallow family are) can suffer.
But for this intricately characterized Heyer mystery, Penhallow isn't so much a "whodunnit" as a "whydunnit".Readers of this book seem to be split in their opinion of it.
Because of these divergent opinions, I wouldn't choose Penhallow for a new reader to Heyer's mystery stories, but save for later after you get a feel for her style.Penhallow's strength and appeal lies in the sharply drawn character studies, although it's hard to deny that the characters under study are a dark and disagreeable bunch; a really disfunctional family, filled with iron-fisted tyrants, avaricious siblings, a pair of moody, brutish twins, a weak-willed lady of the house, and an ambitious lady's maid.
Very enjoyable read. It's not you're average run of the mill murder mystery. The murder doesn't occur until nearly three quarters of the way into the story. We know who the killer is and even then it's ending is unexpected. I think that's why I liked it so much.
The murder does not occur until about 2/3 of the way through the novel and the who, why, and how are known from the time the murder occurs.
ETA: I am currently reading Jennifer Kloester's recently published Georgette Heyer: Biography of a Bestseller and it turns out that my understanding that Penhallow was written as a contract breaker was incorrect.
As it turned out, it was a contract breaker, because Hoddder & Stoughton refused to publish it, but Heyer was immensely proud of the book and at the time she wrote Penhallow considered it to be her best work.
I think "Penhallow" may be the most tragic mystery I've ever read.
Heyer spends a long, long time building him up as the object of our dislike (he doesn't even die until something like two-thirds of the way through), but just when we're tempted to feel that he deserved what he got, everything in the little world that he dominated starts falling apart.
The book is really quite profound and thought-provoking, though never in a preachy way; it's a safe bet that afterward, you'll never be able to think, "I'd like to kill so-and-so," even in the lightest way, without feeling conscience-stricken!
A period piece. This is enchanting. A murder victim who nobody likes. Lots of clues and red herrings.It's a grand romp.
Adam Penhallow rules his family with an iron fist from his bed, where he guzzles whiskey, swears and speaks openly about his many exploits with women.
Eldest son Ray loves the estate more than anything else and wishes his father would stop spending money he can ill afford to spend.
Second son Ingram wishes he were heir and puts up with his father's tirades.
What Penhallow has honorable intentions toward a woman like that?
They're selfish like their father.
This leaves her free to speak sensibly and be the voice of reason.I kind of felt bad for Faith, Adam's long-suffering wife.
I really liked this concept, and in the hands of a great literary giant, this could have been an interesting analysis into the effects a murder has on those immediately affected.
This is such a shame, and if only Heyer had devoted more pages to the fall out after the murder, rather than the too many pages devoted to the bullying of Penhallow himself, I think this could have worked, and been carried off by Heyer.
So- one character considers: what would happen if Penhallow died?
According to Jane Aiken Hodge's biography of Georgette Heyer, she wrote Penhallow as a contract-breaker for a publisher with which she no longer wished to publish but that had an option for her next mystery. It shows. It's not a mystery so much as a tragedy, and populated with distinctly unpleasant characters. That being said, bad Heyer (or more properly Heyer being bad on purpose) is still better than a lot of writers' best. But still: two stars, as I can't say I liked it exactly, but like a trainwreck, I couldn't look away.
Ah, now I get the Heyer love. Picked this up because several of my GR and BL friends swear by Heyer. It was enjoyable. More of a domestic drama than a flat out mystery. It's like a forerunner of Ruth Rendell when she is/was writing as Barbara Vine.Heyer looks at a family that is under the thumb of the worst Dickens character ever (think an evil Martin Chuzzlewit). Then the horse manure hits the fan. It's actually quite a good book with nice little touches.
Not a typical mystery novel. However it has a lot of emotions in it. (view spoiler)[The ending was sad and I felt bad for Raymond, who was afraid of losing everything he worked hard for; the name, the farm. He would rather die than facing such humiliation (hide spoiler)] . It doesn't have the thrill and the twists you seek in the mystery genre, but it has a good story.
I've enjoyed Heyer's murder mysteries in the past but this one was nothing like the others. It has ghastly characters and chunters along for about 300 pages before the inevitable murder occurs. If I had read this one first I never would have read any others.
The family is numerous (perhaps unnecessarily so), though as is typical of Heyer the individual members are well differentiated.
Heyer’s gift for dialogue is on full display as he unerringly probes and exploits the secrets and weaknesses of his family and servants; I really believed in his gratuitous cruelties and mischief.The other members of the family are helpless in his grip, in ways and for reasons that don’t exist in contemporary society but were real enough then.
Heyer also overexplains some of the characters long after we have grasped their essence.
I had read several reviews prior to reading this book, so I knew it wasn't a typical mystery; nor was it typical of Georgette Heyer.
The Penhallows are a very dysfunctional family, which is always fun to read about.
It's more psychological study, but it's a lot of fun for most of the book.I was fine with the long buildup to the murder.
I was even fine with Ms. Heyer showing us outright who the murderer was.
The one thing I cannot forgive is (view spoiler)[ that she had Raymond, my favorite of all the siblings, both legitimate and illegitimate, commit suicide.
(hide spoiler)] That just ruined the book for me.
At the center, like a great spider, is Adam Penhallow unmercifully, ruthlessly, flaying each family member; with words.
, Who is Penhallow's "friend") recognizing the signs of poisoning.
Can murder be viewed as a justifiable way out of an untenable situation?( More than one family member certainly had cause to murder Penhallow.) Certainly the law doesn't consider this, but the book presents this possibility of thought.......
the reader, who has more incite into the situation than any one of the characters, has sympathy for more than one of the embattled family members .
The murder itself doesn't happen until about 2/3 of the way through the book - and when it does, it's no mystery at all - we're told exactly who, why and how.The rest of the novel just deals with the aftermath, and the little bit of suspense comes from wondering if the murderer gets away with it and if other characters get to keep their secrets.If I'd expected a traditional murder mystery, I would have been really disappointed.
This is more like a standard novel that just happens to contain a murder than something that conforms to genre expectations.
I have enjoyed almost all of Heyer’s mysteries but this one was just a trial to get through. Imagine being trapped at a family reunion where everyone is horrible; there are no likeable characters in this story. Even if you had not read the back cover, it's perfectly obvious that the tyrannical father is going to be murdered, but over halfway through the book he still hasn't been killed; then when he is, there is literally no mystery about who did it. This book left me depressed, like I had just spent way too much time with very miserable people.
Probably the most unusual of Ms. Heyer's books, but probably my favorite. It's a murder "mystery" that isn't a mystery; we follow the murderer from her justification of the murder through the murder itself to the disintegration of the household she thought she was saving from an overbearing vicious brute. Do we ever know where our actions will lead, regardless of our intentions? Does good ever come from evil?
Wordlings, such glorious words. Utterly proves the adage you can't make an incredibly talented person write a badly written book. As in, she can't write a bad book even if she wanted to. And Heyer wanted to; to get out of an unsatisfactory contract with her publishers. And this book was the result of that. What a result.Game of Thrones withdrawal trivia : I am willing to bet all my castles I built in the air that Martin based old Lord Frey on Penhallow, heh.
A remarkable book. At first I thought it was a parody of the traditional British country house mystery, with the abusive elderly father just asking to be murdered by one of his children! But then I became so vested in the characters and the mystery I could not put it down! I have not read Heyer before, and I am delighted that she's written about 50 books!
One of Georgette Heyer's books set in the early 1920's. Not a romance. Not even a mystery. Trifle tedious and not necessarily a happy ending.
This is one of those books where I hated every character. I don't think I'll be picking up another Heyer mystery novel anytime soon.
Penhallow draws the reader into a world of country residences and landed property, which passes from generation to generation, with additions made in haphazard architectural fashion according to the whims and fancies of each new owner, and arousing strong passions in the breasts of the sons, as the law of primogeniture prevails.
Confined to bed by ill-health, the current Penhallow likes to keep his large family around him, even insisting on regular attendance at after dinner gatherings in the room to which he is confined.
A tyrannical father, he takes great pleasure in tormenting each of his sons, their wives, his insipid little second wife Faith, the servants and anyone else he can get into his clutches.
Some of his sons are able to tolerate him well enough, but heir Ray is furious with the ruin his father is making of the manor's financial resources, Bart wants to marry a housemaid, Eugene's wife is desperate to get her hypochondriac husband away so they can have their own house, and that's just the start of the list.
It's not really a murder mystery at all; it's the twisted tale of a vastly dysfunctional family, none of whom is particularly nice and most of whom are desperately unhappy.
Most of the book is about horrible, tyrannical Adam penhallow tormenting his sons and enjoying making them hate him.
Adam also likes to torment his rather feeble second wife Faith.
Faith is constantly compared unfAvourably to Adam's first wife, the feisty Rachel.
Faith's maid Loveday has ideas above her station, and Adam's son Bart is in love with her, and plans to marry her.
About halfway through the book a startling revelation is made by Adam to one of his sons, a revelation that is frankly unbelievable.
Georgette Heyer never wrote another book like this and thank goodness for that.
There is not a single likeable character in this story--each and every one has been twisted and blighted by the patriarch of the Penhallow family.
But that's not the worst of it--the worst is the endless descriptions of every single piece of furniture in each room of Trevellin, the home and prison of the Penhallows.
Several times she describes the position of each member of the family in a room--both relative and absolute--in a way one might expect to be relevant.
Even the witty character is never more than mean.
Time to catch up on other reading.
The worst Georgette Heyer book I have ever read.
Penhallow is the story of a tyrant who enjoys dragging his enormous brood of kids home and setting them up against one another.
Penhallow doesn't actually get murdered until almost page 300!
(of a 400 and some page book!) There is so much setting up, so much "getting to know the characters" that the rest of it feels rushed.
I despised Penhallow.
I despised most of his kids.
I despised the book!
Really, not worth reading.
Talk about a waste of my Christmas!Not, not, not worth the bother of reading.
It could have been about half the length and still have communicated that the murder victim, Adam Penhallow, was a tyrant, who forced all his children to live at home, or get no money from him.
If you want to read a really despicable excuse for a human, this belittler of his wife and children ranks up there as one character who needs killing.
The first half of the book just sets up all the characters who could have committed the murder.
If you want to write a mystery, this book will show you how not to do it.
