https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41022009-cocaine-blues
This first book in the mystery series reveals a large cast of peripheral characters, and we encounter the taxi driving duo Bert and Cecil along with Fisher's old friend Dr Elizabeth MacMillan who runs the Victoria Maternity Hospital.
Reading about a forward thinking woman in 1920s Australia at a time when most women were still content to stay home, especially in the upper classes was a fun idea for a novel.
As I enjoy reading both mysteries and detective stories, especially those featuring female investigators, I found Phryne Fisher to be a fun, upbeat character.
The Publisher Says: Honorable Miss Phryne Fisher solves theft in 1920s London High Season society, and sets her clever courage to poisoning in Melbourne, Australia.
I offer my dearly beloved Russell Quant's series debut, Amuse Bouche, as evidence...moderately good mystery craftsmanship, wonderful character development.
Several incidental characters could profitably bear beefing up too, like Sasha the dancer and his Princess granny; I suspect, though, that somewhere in the next 15 or so books these folks will reappear.I've already read book two in the series, review forthcoming, and have the library looking for three and four.
I first read this book a long, long time ago and I had forgotten just how good it is.
In this first book we are introduced to the amazing Miss Fisher and we quickly find out the basic facts about her charmed and charming life.
I enjoy all the little details about life at that time, about the clothes they wore (and Phryne Fisher wears lots of different clothes.
I had a lot of fun with this reread and I may just find the time to keep going and read some more.
Phryne is a wealthy single woman living in England,when she is hired by Colonel Andrews to go to Australia to find out if his daughter Lydia is being poisoned by her husband.
Phryne is actually from Australia, having moved to England at the age of 12, when her father became an Earl and inherited a large estate.
Prior to that she was living in poverty with her family.She agrees to go to Australia and investigate, but on her own terms.
I enjoyed this one and will read more.Phryne is a bit of a clothes horse, with detailed descriptions of her outfits.
Take this, for example:Phryne Fisher had a taste for young and comely men, but she was not prone to trust them with anything but her body.OrPhryne, carrying the cocktail, decanted it unobtrusively into a potted palm against which she had no personal grudge, and hoped that it would not give her away by dying too rapidly.In this first novel she busts up a Melbourne cocaine ring and contrives the arrest (and later the hanging, as this is back in the un-PC day of capital punishment) of a back-alley rapist/abortionist.
I am madly in love with the savvy, promiscuous, and fashionable Phryne Fisher. The best part is that I just now discovered the series: 19 books in all so far (Cocaine Blues is the first)! I picked up the newest in the series at the lib and read a few pages and was hooked. I forced myself to put it down and go get this one and start at the beginning. Such fun. Five stars!
*https://mrsbbookreviews.wordpress.comKerry Greenwood is a prolific Australian author that I was yet to explore until I read her first Phryne Fisher series book, Cocaine Blues.
Cocaine Blues is a fantastic romp which entertained me for the entire length of time I spent with this book.Kerry Greenwood’s first outing with her enigmatic female lead and sleuth, Miss Phryne Fisher, begins in the height of the 1920’s.
These include illegal abortion operations, drugs rings and corruption in high society, which are all brought to the forefront by the talented Ms Kerry Greenwood.Cocaine Blues is a superb first edition to an enduring series, featuring the iconic leading lady, Miss Phryne Fisher.
All that I love about the tv series - the 1920s atmosphere, the banter between the characters, the quirky fun bits (like Dr. Mac's dry sense of humour) - I just can't get a feel for in the first book.
Except of course that the tie-ins were written to correspond with the tv series, which is not the case with the Phryne Fisher book (as the book preceded the tv series and has a slightly different story line and characters).What's probably worse than not getting a sense of place - and I was really looking forward to reading about Melbourne in the 1920s!
I'm well and truly addicted to this series now. First I read the most recent entry, Murder and Mendelssohn. Now I've read the first book. On to the others. It's possible to see how Greenwood has developed both her characters and her writing style, but it's also obvious that she has had an over-arching theme from the beginning. I also enjoy how she manages to address contemporary themes in the guise of 1920s issues.Onward to more Phryne Fisher mysteries!
The book title under Australia caught my attention, and when I read the description, I thought it sounded like a fun read.
I haven't had so much fun reading a mystery novel in a long time.
The writing is smart, Phryne Fisher isn't a prude, and she is a self-possessed woman in a time of a lot of silly, shallow women.
What isn't to like?I'm not sure about the quality of the mystery, but I don't care about that.
I would probably read more of these just for fun.
3.5 stars. I think the best 4-word summary of this book would be "Nancy Drew Gone Wild." (Which, in my world anyway, is high praise.) Kerry Greenwood makes the most of her Roaring 20s setting and her glamorous heroine. Phryne Fisher is not without her flaws, and she is not entirely unscathed by life, but she is refreshingly free of needless self-doubt and insecurity, which makes for a nice change from many of the endlessly neurotic characters that populate so many modern books.
Surely nice girls don't wear dresses like THAT!" but there is certainly something to admire in Phryne's wild exuberance for life, and her passion for following her own mind and heart, despite what her upper-crust society would say about it!
Overall, though, I enjoyed the book and it is a quick read (unless you are trying to plan a wedding, haha!) with a good cast of secondary characters (I hope some will continue to appear in future books) and it is neat to get a glimpse of 1920s Australia--I think this is the first book I've read that's set there, so that was interesting.
Quickly revealing the identity of the petty thief at one of the society events of the season set the Honourable Phryne Fisher on her next journey – interviewed by the Colonel and his wife, they requested she go to Australia and rescue their daughter, Lydia, from the clutches of her husband Andrew, who they were sure was poisoning her, slowly but surely; he would inherit a large sum of money on her death.Phryne accompanied her friend, Scottish doctor Elizabeth MacMillan on the ship across to Melbourne, and upon their arrival on the docks met taxi drivers Bert and Cec who drove them erratically in their rattle-trap old cab, first dropping Doctor MacMillan at the hospital, then Phryne to her accommodations at the Windsor.
I waited way too long to read this. Phryne Fisher is young, stylish, smart and witty. She's constantly ON and I'm not sure that there is an off switch. Loved this first book that introduces her and 'her friends' along the way. She's a fun and compassionate girl and I would have loved to have been in her circle. This is a fast paced book, I think the writing is in line with Phryne's energy level, which worked really well. And no, it's not the coke LOL.
Very enjoyable mystery and Phryne is an absolute boss.
Cocaine Blues is book one of the Miss Fisher's Murder Mysteries by Kerry Greenwood.
Miss Phryne Fisher is new in Melbourne and wants to set up her new private investigation business in Melbourne.
The readers of Cocaine Blues will follow Miss Phryne Fisher investigations to see what happens.
I love Kerry Greenwood character Miss Phryne Fisher.
Kerry Greenwood does a great job of portraying her characters to her readers.
Kerry Greenwood does a great job in describing Melbourne during the 1920's that allows her readers to feel like they are walking the streets of Melbourne with her characters.
This is the first in the Phryne Fisher series written by Kerry Greenwood and published by Poisoned Pen.Phryne is a wealthy heiress with a talent for solving crimes.
Bored with polite English society, Phryne heads to Australia to see about a woman that could be a poisoning victim.
Phryne plans to stay in Australia and start her own private detective business.
This series has been going on for awhile, with I think about eighteen books, at this time.
After she quickly and discretely solves a theft of diamonds at a party, she’s asked by another guest if she might be willing to try to find out what is ailing his daughter.
Seems every time Lydia goes to her husband’s home in Australia she takes ill, but as soon as she returns to England she quickly recovers.
Set in 1920s Australia, this is a quick cozy mystery introducing a very different amateur sleuth.
Greenwood could have spent a little more time on the characters and how they are connected; I especially wanted more info on Dr MacMillan.
Ponekad je stvarno zanimljivo pročitati knjigu koju je napisala žena. Umjesto detalja o osobinama pištolja, umjesto rješavanja problema šakama, tu su haljine od materijala za koje nikad nisam čuo, ženska lukavost i ženske čari kao oružje. Vrlo zanimljivo, i jako dobro za jedan prvi roman u serijalu. definitivno nastavljam dalje
As is my wont if I enjoy a movie of TV series based on a book or books I went out and found these.
The biggest problem I had/have with the TV series and the books is Phryne's proclivity to fall into bed (or sofa, or carpet or whatever relatively soft surface is handy) with a plethora of male sub-protagonists...and minor characters.
Now I tend to skip over that part of the book (or program) but if you enjoy these more than I that's cool.
I like this and so far I like these, enjoy.
This was so much fun to read!I loved the wit of the writing and absolutely adored the character of Phryne Fisher. She's smart, confident, very capable and also hugely entertaining.The mystery was good if a little predictable, but I still had a blast reading this book and cannot wait for the other... twenty or so in the series :'D
Honorable Miss Phryne Fisher travelers back to Melbourne, Australia after years abroad.
Is her husband trying to poison her?It always a bit tricky reading a book after watching a tv series based on it, and vice versa.
But I must admit that I miss the sexual tension between Phryne Fisher and Jack Robinson that exist in the tv-series and alas is absent in the book.
But despite that, the story was great and I love to read about Australia in the 1920s.Phryne Fisher is such a wonderful character, adventurous and glamorous.
Now I'm looking forward to reading the next book in the series!
1/1/18 Kindle Monthly Deal $1.99.
As a huge fan of the TV show adaptation, it was normal for me to love this book!Can't wait to order the second one and basically read the entire series!Miss Phryne Fisher is such an amazing character!!Highly recommend you to read this book series if you love murder mysteries set in the 20s!
After thoroughly enjoying the first two seasons of the Miss Fisher mysteries on TV, I finally had the opportunity to go back and read the first book of the series it was adapted from.
In this case, they are running neck and neck because I had the pleasure of enjoying an audio version of the book.The story is set in Melbourne, Australia of the 1920's.
The mystery was not difficult to solve, but was enjoyable being along as Phryne worked the case and tied up the others.The narrator, Stephanie Daniel was new to me, but she did a fantastic job.
The book then jumps with her aboard the ship, meeting Doctor Elizabeth MacMillan and then they both are ashore in Australia.Phryne becomes involved with a lot of side characters very quickly while Greenwood juggles the main plot (Phryne figuring out what is going on with Lydia and her husband).
Reading about Phryne's clothes, stockings, shoes, hair, make-up got to be a bit much, but I ultimately liked it, because it showed back then that was how a woman made a statement.
Also Phryne's clothes did a good job of showing that she may like pretty things, but was not a foolish woman.The flow was off though.
Perhaps a case of finding the right book at the right time, because reading this during the readathon, I loved it!Even the first time, I was impressed by Phryne’s character: the fact that she’s a flapper, that she’s independent, clever, capable.
In fact, there’s very little we see by way of flaws in Phryne, which could get annoying… but for now, I just loved the amount of agency she has, the strength she has, the fact that she’s unequivocally a sexual person and nobody can take advantage of her because she owns that fact.The mysteries were kind of secondary to that for me; they come together well, though, and give us a varied cast.
This first book introduces the reader to Phryne and the beginnings of her found family, while also tackling pretty serious issues like back street abortions and the sexual assault that often accompanied them.Okay, part of the background is directly from Sayers — the arsenical poisoning plot — but it’s what Greenwood does with it.
I look forward to the journey… but if you didn’t find Phryne enchanting in this book, you won’t enjoy the others.
She remains the same sort of figure — perhaps a little too perfect for some tastes, a little too ready for anything.It’s okay; I’ll forgive you if you don’t love her too.
Things I really liked about this book:- The characters.
Things I wasn't so keen on:- I kept being pulled out of the story by Phryne seemingly changing her clothes every couple of pages, warranting huge amounts of description about her new outfit.
- Because there were basically two mysteries running side-by-side (catching the backstreet abortionist and working out who was importing cocaine), there were a LOT of characters.
Like, I knew who the cocaine kingpin was going to be basically from the get go.
And not because I read this series back in the early years of high school (which, WHAT WAS MY HIGH SCHOOL LIBRARIAN THINKING????
Set in 1920's Australia, Phryne is played by the excellent Essie Davis.
Essie imbues Phryne with charm and sophistication, you can't help but love her.
The Phryne in the book has the same endearing qualities.
She is a young, wealthy unmarried women who doesn't mind hopping in bed with a fellow and makes no apologies for it.
In this, the first book, there are two mysteries at hand.
Having already loved the Netflix series I was very pleased to find this book series.
With 19 more books to go there is plenty more of Phryne to go around.
