https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/195381.The_Perilous_Gard
There is something very strange about the mansion she is sent to live in, called the Perilous Gard, as well as the people who live in this house, including a troubled young man named Christopher, and the frightened and highly superstitious villagers.
Christopher does what he thinks he needs to do (he offers himself to the Fairy Folk as a willing substitute for his niece) and Kate, who knows too much for the comfort of the people in the Perilous Gard who are dealing with the Fairy Folk, ends up being handed over to the Folk as a human servant.
Books like The Perilous Gard remind me of why I love to read.Our story begins in England, summer of 1558, in an unpleasant castle where Princess Elizabeth Tudor keeps a small retinue, ever watched and harassed by her angry half-sister, Queen Mary.
Mary is infuriated by the letter, but believes Alicia too sweet and witless a creature to have composed it herself, so the royal punishment falls instead on the head of Katherine, Alicia’s plain-looking and plain-spoken older sister.Princess Elizabeth has no choice but to send her friend Katherine to the place “suggested” by the Queen: Sir Geoffrey Heron’s desolate manor, Elvenwood Hall, sometimes called the Perilous Gard.
I read it a couple of years back and every time I thought of the book I had fond memories, but why exactly it had that effect was slipping from my memory.
This book is one those "hidden gems", not too many people know about it but those who do love this story.Kate is a lady in waiting for Lady Elizabeth, but because of a certain questionable letter that her sister Alicia sends to Queen Mary, she is sent away to live at the Perilous Gard.
There are many tales regarding this place, but Kate being the level headed girl she is doesn't put much thought to the wild tales.
This was also rather unique.
It fit the Tudor (1558)Hatfield and Norfolk placements to a superb degree.
The combination of genre was also, IMHO, highly unusual.
Not completely historical fiction, not truly a novel of manners and guile, not cored in romance, crossing cultural boundaries with the "other" economic class.
And skirting the magical and characters of myth?
Or clan, as in a much older society form?
Regardless, the writing and thought patterns of our lady protagonist were complex, fully emotive of human nuance, and the physical nature of descriptions not one bit shabby either.Thank you to the GR friend who recommended this book.
Elizabeth Marie Pope's The Perilous Gard taught me a lesson that what can get under one person's skin, sink into their minds and out and out *haunt* them is nothing but a casual read to someone else (alrighty, I've learned this lesson before.
"Oh, I read that years ago." She didn't even think that it might appeal to me, and she knows my interest in Tam Lin based stories.
We'd love to read histories, and then the historical fiction stories, and make up our own dramas based off all of it.
Fortunately for me, I couldn't remember much more than a set piece here or there.
Which means it was like reading it for the first time, only with a pleasant tang of anticipation for spice.Not that the book needed any kind of boost.
I could go on about the intricacy of the setting, but to be honest, I couldn't really care less.
So I'll leave it with this: I was completely charmed by both the book and the heroine.
They are (book and woman) strong, brave, and smart.
From the book's description, I half expected it to be a typical pro-pagan narrative about the niceness and feminist smarts of pre-Christian Celtic culture:In 1558, while exiled by Queen Mary Tudor to a remote castle known as Perilous Gard, young Kate Sutton becomes involved in a series of mysterious events that lead her to an underground world peopled by Fairy Folk—whose customs are even older than the Druids’ and include human sacrifice.Well.
Both stories include elements of the old tale of Tam Lin--The Perilous Gard is an intriguing retelling of the story.
It makes every scene come alive, and the characters too — slightly silly, trusting Alicia; sensible, awkward Kate; torn and guilty Christopher.The love story works perfectly for me, as well: not surprising, perhaps, considering the way they needle each other.
The way that they keep each other sane and whole, and find each other in the end.And there’s subtlety in most of the characterisation, too: the Faerie Folk are strange, and think differently, but there’s moments where their emotions seem close to human, where Kate comes close to understanding them, and they her.
Wonderful!
A sort of retelling of Tam Lin, without the pregnant lover part.
As you very well know, TWUE WUV is a powerful weapon when dealing with fairy folk.
They may not be able to speak lies, but there's almost always a trick to be played.Clever Kate has been exiled to The Perilous Gard, a remote fortress, merely for not being as charming as her sister.
He's prickly, and no wonder!
Fairies are almost businesslike in their dealings with mortals, they take what they need without regard for feelings.
I loved the way this tale played out at the end, highly recommended.
This is one of the most often re-read books in our house - definitely the one I read to the daughters the greatest number of times.
Then there's some of the best dialogue ever ('You don't look like any god to me, Christopher Heron.
You look like a piece of gilded gingerbread.') And Kate's a wonderful heroine - intelligent, stubborn when it's about doing what she feels she should (or not taking the easy way out) and interesting, rather than beautiful and not much more.
And finally, in Christopher, the wounded, arrogant-acting-but-suffering hero is both portrayed to great effect and constantly deflated by Kate's common-sense.
This taut, emotionally compelling but unsentimental look at fae I think has influenced a great many writers working in fantasy today.
Why wouldn't I spend two hours this way?The Perilous Gard was written in a time before people really knew what Young Adult fiction should look like.
Queen Mary, with extraordinary logic, decides that Alicia couldn't possibly have written the letter and blames it all on Kate, sending her to live in Derbyshire with Sir Geoffrey Heron at his home called Elvenwood Hall, otherwise known as the Perilous Gard.
There are rumors of mysterious fairy folk who live in the wood surrounding the Gard, but of course no one believes them.The initial setup makes the characters seem stereotypical, but Kate and Alicia really do love each other, and Kate's being awkward doesn't make her feel bad about herself.
An excellent story reworking the legend of Tam Lin, that is my first read of a retelling for this story that's a Beauty and the Beast type of tale from the British Isles.
I'd already read Pope's only other book and loved it, so I expected this to be good despite my doubts over the period setting (Tudor England).
I did like the impressive balance of historical realism and magical elements the author was able to pull out, and how she accounted for the existence of the "fairy folk" very plausibly.
It was like seeing how Tam Lin could've really gone down sans the shapeshifting and the high fantasy elements.
As a bonus, it's also historical fantasy and a Tam Lin retelling, two awesome subgenres.Kate Sutton is a lady in waiting to Princess Elizabeth, along with her younger sister Alicia.
Regardless, the end is incredibly swoon-worthy and I would quote the whole thing except that it's full of spoilers and also the point is that you have to read it in order.It's also interesting to note that Kate's impulses from the beginning are to save Christopher.
At the same time, I think she's the strongest character in the whole book.
Kate is such a wonderful heroine and Christopher was one of the first characters I swooned over.
Originally posted here.I've had my copy of The Perilous Gard by Elizabeth Marie Pope since 2007 and I only got to read it recently.
I've read a couple of fairy novels this year but The Perilous Gard is different from anything else that I've read.
The Perilous Gard is a lovely story and is a classic for fans of fairy stories.
Like I said, I recommend this for fans of fairy stories or retellings of Tam Lin.I was pleasantly surprised by the illustrations included in the novel.
And if you have any other recommendations for Tam Lin retellings that I should know about.
Kate is sent to Elvenwood, also called "the Perilous Gard", where she's immediately intrigued by Christopher, the enigmatic brother of the master of the castle, Sir Geoffrey Heron.
Soon, she discovers the secrets kept by the people of the castle, and to her peril, discovers also the mysterious residents of the land around the castle.
Pope's period detail is impeccable and never ponderous, and her fairies (the People of the Hill) have just the right note of otherworldliness.
Kate is a marvelous heroine, clever and daring, and the rest of the characters are equally engaging.
What could not be said about this fabulous book?!?!?! I love it!!! One of the few books (along with Jane Austen's and the Bronte's) that I read over and over. It perfectly entwines historical fiction with the lore of the fairy folk in a completely believable manner. I really like how the fairy folk were kept true to the old legends and poems of them being sinister and evil. I also loved the herione, she's great; I hate when the main character is an idiot. And the love story is fabulous. Why don't more people read this?!?
But Kate is a bright and curious young woman, and soon she is busy ferreting out mystery.
From the dubious smoothness of the castle's manager, Master John, and the suspicious hostility of the villagers to the stubborn silence of the lord's younger brother, Christopher Heron, she has plenty to figure out.The story moves quickly and develops mythic/fantasy elements woven from traditional ballads that feel entirely appropriate to the era and setting.
Both Kate and Christopher undergo severe tests of their character and powers of endurance.
I loved that no character is carelessly drawn; everyone is understandable even when their motivations are as yet unrevealed.
I actually forgot a lot more than I thought I did, but it's definitely a book worth rereading.From the start we see that Kate is in trouble for something her prettier, younger sister did and so is sent off to the Perilous Gard.
Just like one of those ballads the witless singer might know.I can't tell you how much I enjoy a strong protagonist like Kate.
One more thing that I thought was just oh-so-satisfying was the relationship between Kate and Christopher.
It was more of a show don’t tell kind of thing which I always love to see in books.
I am so grateful to whoever it was that told me I should read this book - an absolute masterpiece of children's historical fantasy, written with such deftness and lightness of touch. It has become one of my all-time favourite children's books.
Not talking about this one right now. For secret reasons.2015 Reading Challenge - A Book with Magic
I try to reread this every year around Halloween and it is so worth it every time.
These are a powerful people without human emotion or any form of sympathy for the distraught victims they snare; a people mindful of little but the fact that most of their grottos have been destroyed by the forceful coming of the Christian faith, and that the last refuge for their life in the dark arts lies beneath the foundation of The Perilous Gard.
Elizabeth Marie Pope is a writer of the highest caliber, and demonstrates her skills abundantly throughout the pages of this book.The Perilous Gard is a job well done in every respect, and I would certainly recommend it, especially to readers who are interested in suspenseful fantasy adventures.
The Perilous Gard is a captivating young adult retelling of the ballad of Tam Lin, which blurs the line between history and mythology. Love the story, the writing, the characters, the ending, the audiobook narration… A very enjoyable reading/listening experience :)
The Perilous Gard is a reworking of the Scottish ballad of Tam Lin. Or it might be more accurate to say the ballad of Tam Lin is worked into this story which stands on its own merits beautifully.During 16th century England Kate Sutton is exiled to a mysterious fortress called Elvenwood Manor but historically referred to as the Perilous Gard.
When Christopher trades his own freedom and life for that of his niece, Kate also finds herself a captive and in the position of having to rescue them both.As a work of historical fiction this novel is wonderful.
Kate is just the sort of character I love -- proud, highly intelligent, a bit socially awkward.
She's just distant enough from her feelings that a story in her POV is emotionally subtle, without being so distant from them that they don't come across at all.
Points.Something else I liked was that nearly everything in the story allowed for a non-magical explanation.
But not quite everything, which added a bit of mystery.
When the author writes her own snippet of ballad at the every end, it doesn't scan.
Even by ballad standards the scansion is a failure.
I love the ballad of TAM LIN, and Elizabeth Marie Pope's retelling of that famous poem is clever, dark, surprising, funny, elegant, mysterious, and ultimately wonderful. This was the last book to keep me up until 3:00 in the morning turning pages. I was not expecting to be so delighted, and I look forward to reading her other novel, THE SHERWOOD RING.
What can I say? Awesomeness-- pure and simple awesomeness. I know no other book that has such a genuine feel for the Tudor period and the ancient Druid culture. Kate and Christopher are attractive leading characters and Alicia very entertaining as well. If you guys haven't read this one, you really should--it's not too long, and it's really worth your time.
Kate Sutton finds herself accidentally in the bad graces of Queen Mary and sent to live in a remote castle with a secret and possibly dangerous past. She meets up with superstitious villagers, a gruff but lovable Lord of the castle, his mysterious and vexed (oh, and handsome, of course) younger brother, a disturbed but friendly troubadour, and a charm of wicked fairies. Kate is smart and stubborn and a bit clumsy, but strong, too, in all sorts of ways. In short, reader, I love her. And her story.
In the beginning of the story, seventeen-year old Kate is a maid of honor to the Princess Elizabeth Tudor, before Elizabeth became Queen.
And plain human greed, intertwined with the motifs from the Tam Lin ballad.While Kate navigates though the dangerous pitfalls of the story – an historical fiction mixed with a fairy tale, a touch of romance, a dash of fantasy, and a whiff of Celtic myth – her common sense keeps her grounded.
