https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15195.The_Complete_Maus
This was real and I can't even explain how this affected me because it was the most emotional thing I've ever read.
The love shown between Vladek and Anja mesmerized me and broke my heart seeing them go through so much cruelty and suffering.
The Complete Maus are two graphic novels combined to form the story of Vladek Spiegelman's life during World War 2.
The love Art and Vladek had for each other.
I loved the little funny moments in the novel, like when Vladek throws out Art's coat and gives him a "warm" coat, which Art hates because it isn't fashionable.
Wonderful example of the power of a graphic novel! This is the “Complete” edition of “Maus: A Survivor’s Tale” collecting both parts: “My Father Bleeds History” and “And Here My Troubles Began”. OF MAUS AND MEN  But these damn bugs are eating me alive! While it took long time of finally reading Maus,......I knew that it was a graphic novel referring about the Jew Holocaust, but using mice (Jews) and cats (Nazis) as the characters,......and even while I was sure that it will be a crude telling,
Even there are some odd moments of a “female mouse person” scared due the presence of regular rats.Again, the Jew Holocaust is not a matter to take in comical way, but then, I think that the graphic novel could plainly use human beings (not necessarily too realistic, some cartoon style could work) and the graphic novel will be the same as good, the same as relevant.You know, as in the movie Life is Beautiful where the horrors of the Holocaust are there, but still there is space for some humorous moments, that they help as tension relief without meaning any disrespect to the tragic historic event.However, definitely the graphic format of this story makes possible for readers to be witness from the begining until the end (and even further) of the whole tragic and cruel process of what Jews endured (and not many were able to get out alive from it) during the World War II.
The art style was a bit distracting at times, but I really enjoyed this!
LOVE
On the face of it, we’re led to believe that it’s a story of the terrible suffering perpetrated by the Nazis against the Jews in Poland and throughout Europe.
Cat on mouse violence is so old and pervasive that, in a way, we’ve become desensitized to it.
When seen through the lens of the Jewish experience, and with Spiegelman’s masterstroke of personalizing the story by laying bare the difficult relationship he had with his father (the survivor), the residuum of cat brutality that can literally tear mice families apart is brought home to us in a very different way.Original: Mar 9, 2012------------------------Addendum: Aug 23, 2013This still ranks as my top graphic novel of all time, but I just finished Chris Ware's Building Stories which gives it a pretty good run for the money.
Most likely did I read graphic novels which didn't suit my personal tastes, but Art Spiegelman was capable of shattering my expectations and completely stunning me with the art of his writing and his illustrations.But let's start at the beginning.
Maus is a collection of two graphic novels with autobiographical background about the author, Art Spiegelman, and his father's recollections about his experiences in the Second World War. Spiegelman constantly switches between present and past, between the time when he writes down what his father tells him and the time when all the horrible events in the concentration camps took place.
What I didn't realize was it would expand even farther in to the specific lives of the Spiegelmans before, during, and after the war.Throughout the book the artist/author is a featured character struggling with his curmudgeonly father while he tries to document the story of his father's time in 1930s and 40s Poland and Germany.
His experiences with his father are as much a part of the book as the stories he is trying to document.Another viewpoint of life under Nazi oppression is always riviting.
These stories are important, but are not always easy to read or tell.
E perché no, anche il Mickey Mouse disneyano.Spiegelman figlio intervista Spiegelman padre sulla Shoah (la madre è morta suicida, il fratello maggiore è morto avvelenato dalla zia, anche lei suicida, per evitargli l’orrore del campo di sterminio).Il racconto del padre è storia nota e stranota?
Sì, ma anche tanto tenera, romantica.Uomini topi più umani degli umani.In ogni caso, è una storia che bisogna continuare a raccontare, che non bisogna dimenticare.
Un rapporto padre e figlio che nella sua peculiarità è tuttavia paradigmatico.A Spiegelman è stato chiesto se non gli sembrava di cattivo gusto mettere in fumetti la tragedia dell’Olocausto.
One may dream: had he been successful, he might have had a different fate, and, as a result, Europe’s history might have taken some other shape… Sixty years later, on another continent, the young Art Spiegelman applied to the High School of Art and Design in Manhattan and passed the exam.
Maus, a massive graphic novel, thirteen years in the making, depicts the complicated relationship between Art and his father, the very process of creating Maus, and, in an interlocked way, Vladek’s experience, living in Poland during the rise and fall of the Third Reich.Back in those days, Hollywood was producing its most celebrated films, and Mickey Mouse had become the cutest little mascot on the silver screen.
“The Jews are undoubtedly a race, but they are not human.”  - Adolf HitlerThis a graphic novel told from two timelines. In the narrative present, Art Spiegelman (author) is interviewing his father Vladek about his experiences as a Polish Jew and a Holocaust survivor. The narrative past depicts these very experiences from the mid 1930s to the end of the Holocaust in 1945. Spiegelman has utilised different species of animals to portray different nationalities and races - Jews as mice, Germans as
“The Jews are undoubtedly a race, but they are not human.”
In the narrative present, Art Spiegelman (author) is interviewing his father Vladek about his experiences as a Polish Jew and a Holocaust survivor.
The narrative past depicts these very experiences from the mid 1930s to the end of the Holocaust in 1945.
We knew the stories - that they will gas us and throw us in the ovens.
It allows the reader to gain a deeper understanding of how the camps were run and what it was like for the prisoners.
Y es precisamente la historia de su padre Wladek Spiegelman, un judío polaco sobreviviente del holocausto.En el cómic Wladek le cuenta a su hijo como después de que le liberaran de Bergen-Belsen pasó por un estudio fotográfico y se hizo este retrato usando un uniforme que representaba al usado en los campos de concentración.
¿Cómo puede Art llevarse mal con su padre a pesar de todo lo que sufrió?Arbeit Macht Frei "El trabajo libera" a la entrada de Auschwitz IEs una de las lecciones que nos deja leer esta novela gráfica.
It jumps back and forth between the two stories, one set in the past (Poland), the other set in the present (NYC).Story 1: 1940’s Poland: Vladek Spiegelman tells how he survived the holocaust as a Polish-Jew. From the invasion, to the spread of Naziam, to his time in Auschwitz-Birkenau extermination camp as a tin worker at the gas chambers.
Art details his creative process of composing his book about his dad's holocaust experiences.
Most of the text in the book are direct quotes from Art Spiegelman's father, Vladik.
The complete Maus tells the tale of Hitler's Europe and the experiences of one Jewish man, the author/illustrator Art Spiegelman's father Vladek.
It is a book that doesn't hold any punches and is jaw dropping in its exploration of humanity through both the atrocities and ethnic cleansing of that time and of how this moulds a man forever.
I don't have the words to fully express all I'm feeling right now so please read these two reviews by AMANDA and FABIAN to fully grasp what this graphic novel is about.
I don't read graphic novels.
Para empezar, nunca había leído una novela gráfica y tenía miedo de que no me gustara, pero al leer esta, me he dado cuenta de que me encantan.
Ver ilustrado cada cosa que ocurre me ayuda a acercarme más a la historia.La forma en la que está contada la historia de Vladek Spiegelman también me ha gustado mucho.
Vemos como él le va contando la historia a su hijo y también vemos la relación que tiene con su hijo y la vida que siguió llevando después.Es una historia que me ha atrapado, de hecho, siempre que cogía este libro me costaba mucho soltarlo.
Dziadek could be Vladek's twin brother if any of Vladek's poor family had survived the war.This book's most horrifying moment came, for me, at the loss of their two year old son, Richeu.
I tried to imagine a world where my decision to keep my son with me and hope for a better future, cost him his life and considered how I would live with that for the rest of my life.I don't have the answer to that.
Art shows himself interviewing his father, Vladek, and his time spent with his father for part of this book, and the rest of the story is Vladek's experiences and survival of Auschwitz and how he survived throughout all of the invasion of Poland by Germany and the Nazis.
I was able to really digest and contemplate on what I was reading, and I think taking my time helped me understand and fully immerse myself in Vladek’s experiences.
Vladek’s story will definitely stick with me for the rest of my life.
Quantos de nós não sentiram já uma pontada de culpa, por sentirmos que nunca saberemos verdadeiramente compreender estes relatos, por muito que possamos dizer que estas histórias nos perturbam?Penso que a decisão de retratar fielmente o pai como uma pessoa complicada e conflituosa e a sua própria difícil relação com o filho, torna a personagem mais próxima ao leitor e a sua história mais visceral e palpável.
Recomendo Maus a todos os leitores.
Art Spiegelman warns of 'dangerous' outcome as Russian shops ban Maus This has been on my wishlist forever -looks like this is a good time to read it. "My father pulled out 14 of his teeth to escape. If you missed 12 teeth they let you go."- page 45, book I"The guards, it was Jews with big sticks, they acted so, just like the Germans"- page 106, book I
Πεντάστερο αριστούργημα!Χωρίς πολλά λόγια, μια εικονοιστορία που αξίζει να διαβαστεί από όλους, έτσι ώστε να μην ξεχνάει κανείς μας τις θηριωδίες των Ναζί στον ΒΠΠ.
Δικαίως βραβεύτηκε, δικαίως αγαπήθηκε και δικαίως φιγουράρει στα graphic novels με τις πιο υψηλές βαθμολογίες.
To σχέδιο δεν είναι κάτι το ιδιαίτερο αλλά η όλη ιστορία και η δυναμική των χαρακτήρων πραγματικά με έκαναν να μην θέλω να σταματήσω να διαβάζω.
Η εξουσία του ανθρώπου πάνω σε συνανθρώπους του μπορεί να εξαλείψει τελείως την ανθρώπινη φύση και την λογική.
ΥΓ: Οι ΕΒραίοι είναι ποντίκια, οι Γερμανοί γάτες, οι Πολωνοί γουρούνια, οι Αμερικάνοι σκύλοι, οι Γάλλοι βάτραχοι και οι τσιγγάνοι ακρίδες...Χρειάζεται να γράψω κάτι παραπάνω;;
One of the most influential literary works ever...in or out of comics.
Actually, I'm not just cheating on him; I've left him.Review:Before I review this book, you should know something about me: I never read graphic novels.
I normally have zero interest in reading graphic novels/comic books.
My pathetic reviewing skills aren’t going to do it justice, but you shouldn’t let that stop you from reading it.The basic outline is about a man interviewing his father, a Polish Holocaust survivor, for a book he is writing.
I adored Vladek and all of his quirks, but I also understood how difficult it must have been for Spiegelman to grow up with such a father.
The story is set in Rego Park, NY where Art Spiegelman, a cartoonist tries to verbalize and grasp with his father and the Holocaust.Written over a period of thirteen years, MAUS comprises of two volumes.Volume I:-My Father Bleeds History:- The narrative initiates in the town of Czestochowa in Poland; native soil of Vladek Spiegelman(Art’s father).Young and vivacious Vladek is into the textile business who after having a torrid affair with Lucia ends up marrying a much wealthier Anja Zylberberg.
“I mean,I can’t even make any sense out of my relationship with my father…How am I supposed to make any sense out of Auschwitz?...Of the Holocaust?” Art’s effort to identify with his father’s life is delineated throughout the novel when he questions Vladek on Anja’s suicide or life in the concentration camps.
I haven’t yet read Romeo Dallaire’s book about the Rwandan genocide either—I’ve got exactly the same issue with it.Spiegelman doesn’t shy away from showing the atrocities, the fear, and the damage done to those who survived the Second World War. And survival is never taken for granted—it happened when luck and hard work combined to keep people alive.
This graphic novel format makes this history accessible to a new generation in a form that they can appreciate.I am of two minds regarding the depictions of various nationalities as animals, Jews as mice, Germans as cats, Poles as pigs, etc.
Spiegelman draws what, from a distance of decades, his Polish father Vladek narrates about his almost unbelievable series of escapes, including time in Auschwitz.
I prefer the style of these panels – ornate with cross-hatching, almost like woodcuts – yet it’s clear why, to get through the sheer mass of material, Spiegelman had to streamline things to accomplish Maus.You can see how this paved the way for comic artists like Roz Chast and Alison Bechdel.
As Vladek’s second wife Mala observes, “It’s an important book.
A book can pull me every which way, make me feel horrified or saddened or joyful, but when I put it down, I'm in the same mood I was before I started reading it.
I was actually happy to finish it, because I didn't like the way it was making me feel: anxious, upset, unhappy.
When a book does this to me I have to give it five stars.(As an aside, I wondered throughout the whole book why he chose pigs to represent Polish people.
Δεν είχα σκοπό να γράψω review για το Maus αλλά όταν ένα κόμικ σε επηρεάζει τόσο που βλέπεις εικόνες
Terminé bañada en lágrimas. No solo va derecho a los favoritos del año, sino a los favoritos de la vida. 10/10.
La historia quizás les sea familiar, Judíos, Segunda guerra mundial, Alemanes, campos de concentración, Polacos, y Estadounidenses; Maus nos relata la historia biográfica de de Vladek Spiegelman, con el giro de ser contada a través de los dibujos de su hijo Art en el formato del Cómic,y para las personas que no les gusta este formato, o tienen sus dudas con respecto a su seriedad o importancia, sepan que es el único cómic hasta la fecha que ha ganado el premio Pulitzer, algo digno de mención.
"Samuel Beckett disse uma vez: «Cada palavra é como uma mancha desnecessária no silêncio e no nada».Mas, por outro lado, ele teve de o DIZER."  "quantos livros já foram escritos sobre o Holocausto. Para quê? As pessoas não mudaram... Talvez precisem de um Holocausto novo e maior."  "muitas empresas que prosperaram durante o regime nazi são hoje mais ricas do que nunca. Não sei... Talvez TODA A GENTE tenha de se sentir culpada. TODA A GENTE! PARA SEMPRE!" Em 2014 tentei ler Maus e desisti; porqu
Desta vez foi a minha filha, mais do que com palavras, pelo olhar e pelo tom de voz, que me transmitiu o seu sentir este livro.Na altura, o meu erro foi tentar ler esta obra como uma peça literária, com frases bonitas, personagens simpáticas, etc, e não como o que ela verdadeiramente é: um documento histórico sobre o sofrimento de um homem, de um povo, vítimas de um horror inimaginável.
Não vou apagar a minha primeira opinião, porque o passado não pode, nem deve, ser apagado; quando muito rasurado.(30 de abril de 2016)____________________________________"A narrativa mais comovente e eficaz alguma vez escrita sobre o Holocausto."- The Wall Street JournalAtravés de desenhos - em que as personagens são animais - o autor conta a história do seu pai desde a juventude até à sua deportação para Aushwitz.
When I was a kid I read comic books (mostly Superman). The Maus books are the only graphic novels I've read and I consider them masterpieces (Mausterpieces?). Like Spiegelman's alter ego, I was a middle class child growing up in Queens (NYC), the son of Holocaust survivors and couldn't communicate with my father when I was growing up. He got it down perfectly. It was spot on and ranks among the best of Holocaust related literature.
Una maravilla de cómic que refleja la vida y las experiencias de un judío polaco en el holocausto nazi. Lo mejor sin duda son los flashbacks y la crudeza de la historia. Art hizo un gran trabajo visibilizando y dándo alma a un acontecimiento histórico que aún hoy en día levanta ampollas.
Me encantó, la mejor novela gráfica que he leído en mi vida. Cruda y sentimental a la vez.
This was an amazing read.This was so good. I've known about it for a long time but somehow never sought it out. Maybe it was a bias against graphic novels? Not sure. I'm so glad I finally read it. This is a picture of human strength and frailty, humane and savage behavior, done in a novel way that seems to make it even more immediate and real.
What is amazing about the book is the emotional resonance Spiegelman manages to pack into his panels.
Other startling moments: the insertion of one of Spiegelman's early comic books to illustrate the lingering grief of his mother's suicide (he was barely 20 when she took her life), and the occasional use of a real picture---Spiegelman's father in his Auschwitz uniform on the final page---to break the continuity of the drawings.
Best of all are the characterizations: Spiegelman depicts himself (Artie) as ambivalent but committed to his father, while Vladek is aloof, intense, but ultimately heroic for the mere fact of his survival.
Historias como estas, que solo buscan contar algo que sucedió y terminan marcando y gustando demasiado.
What a great way to show the history of Auschwitz & The life of Art. I am a cat person so Nazis as cats is very funny. This a classic the art work i Black &White because it makes it comes across very much an evil dark time.This NOT as one idiot said a 'child's book" like Animal Farm this book with a vast point to make in this case tear jerker that is a subject we hope NEVER returns.Constatation camps are not a German invention Hitler get the blame but They are British government from the Boer war
No se como reseñar este libro, siempre es mas fácil escribir sobre libros malos que sobre obras tan espectaculares como ésta.
Es crudo, escalofriante, aterrador, adictivo y, sin embargo, por momentos nos permite relajar con un poco de humor después de tanto machaque cerebral.
Creo que la crudeza es totalmente necesaria y quizás mi única "crítica" es que me hubiera gustado tener más detalles, mas extensión, porque nunca es suficiente para poder relatar la realidad que se vivió en esa época y poder leerlo directamente de un sobreviviente es un lujo, y sobretodo de esta manera tan atrapante que hace que con cada página quieras leer 10 más.
Brillante. Una forma original, visual y conmovedora de mostrar uno de los episodios más horribles de la historia de la humanidad.
Romanul grafic Maus e o dramatică poveste despre Holocaust spusă pe două planuri - unul al supraviețuitorului de la Auschwitz și Dachau, celălalt al fiului său, care încearcă să îi afle povestea.
Povestea supraviețuirii holocaustului e transmisă foarte inteligent, în episoade cuprinse în discuții aparent fără importanță - Maus, însă, devine un portret al tatălui său care adaugă o latură umană, reală, cifrelor dure din spatele Holocaustului.E ușor de citit, dar greu de digerat.
Traducerea în limba română e reușită, volumul foarte bine executat; paginile groase, tipăritura excelentă.
Merită și vă recomand ediția în limba română de la Editura Art.
Está muy bien ir a Eurodisney, educar a nuestras hijas con los valores de las nuevas princesas Disney (decididas y valientes como Mulan o Vaiana).
Reflexionar acerca de que los cuervos de Dumbo son negros y hablan como negros, mientras que en la traducción de los años cuarenta hablan como gitanos andaluces… Ahora que Disney tiene Star Wars, ahora que es dueña y señora de Marvel Cómics, no exagero cuando digo que la obra de Spiegelman debería ser lectura obligatoria a todos los institutos del mundo.
Reseña completa: http://anitavelabooks.blogspot.com.es...Maus es una novela gráfica basada en hechos reales y que nos cuenta como una familia judía vivió el holocausto nazi. No es una historia fácil de leer, es dura, pero merece mucho la pena. En el blog os cuento más: http://anitavelabooks.blogspot.com.es...
Uma parte desta história é divertida, se olharmos para os momentos de conversa entre o autor e o pai que, devido à forretice crónica do pai, se podem tornar um pouco humorísticas.Mas a capa diz tudo.
O destino apanha-nos quase sempre.O autor não se poupou, não tentou romantizar as coisas, nem sequer o próprio pai (o que lhe causou alguns remorsos).
Conheço poucas histórias de holocausto narradas na primeira pessoa e, apesar de aqui ser em segunda mão, porque é a história dos pais do autor, estes relatos são sempre um grande murro no estômago.
É importante que estes livros continuem a chegar às pessoas e a refrescar as memórias.
The graphic novel tells the story of Art getting his father to open up about his life and tell him what he went through, as he himself tries to understand why he struggles to connect with Vladek.I hadn’t expected that roughly half of this book is actually about Art coming to terms with what his parents endured, with his issues making art about the Holocaust and making money (not to mention getting famous) off this work he feels incredibly uneasy about.
Maus è innanzitutto la storia di una testimonianza, quella del vecchio Vladek, ebreo di origine polacca ora residente negli Stati Uniti il quale, su richiesta del figlio Art (l'autore), narra la storia della sua vita, dal suo matrimonio con Anja nella Polonia degli anni '30, alle persecuzioni razziali, all'internamento nel capo di sterminio di Auschwitz, fino alla liberazione e alla rinascita di una nuova vita in un nuovo paese...il tutto corredato da geniali scelte grafiche di grande impatto visivo (quali la rappresentazione dell'umanità in razze di animali antropomorfi, topi per gli ebrei, gatti per i nazisti, maiali per i polacchi) che riescono a strappare qualche tenero sorriso nonostante la tragicità dell'argomento trattato.
Una historia más sobre el holocausto judío durante la II Guerra Mundial.
Realmente “Maus” es la historia de la elaboración del cómic “Maus”: recopilación de testimonios paternos, documentación, búsqueda de fotografías.
reflexión sobre la capacidad del cómic para contar el holocausto, la elección de unos animales u otros para representar a los personajes o exposición autobiográfica de los sentimientos que llevan al autor a escribir la historia: culpa, confrontación paterno-filial, ausencia materna,… Pero es tal la fuerza de la historia contada por el padre que prevalece sobre cualquier consideración intelectual y literaria.
Como o pai de Art ficou afectado com a guerra e como isso afectou o relacionamento de ambos, como Art fica com receio de colocar esta história "para fora", os problemas de saúde de Vladek e ainda os muitos sentimentos de insegurança de Art.E por estar em banda desenhada, a história ficou mais fácil de ser lida?
Não.Se tanto, de alguma maneira, conseguiu maximizar ainda mais a dor de um sobrevivente que perdeu tudo excepto a sua vida...
