https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7963.Characters_and_Viewpoint
The final chapter here covers 'Transformations', which is indeed a necessity in good story telling because a character should undergo change (or fail at it) and the reader should witness this change (or failure) - but, Card's discussion here becomes abstract and, like most of this section, does not really delve into how to do any of these things.
Instead, Card points at contemporary examples from books and films, preaching the do's and don't's, while showing the novice what possibilities are available.The third part is perhaps the most useful and focuses more on topics like voice and viewpoint rather than purely on character.
Orson Scott Card presents tools and techniques for the novice writer on characters and viewpoint.
In his book we learn how to invent a character -- what makes a good fictional character.
We discover how to construct a character and the importance of the MICE quotient -- Milieu, Idea, Character and Event.
We learn the difference between major and minor characters and between walk-on and placeholder characters.
We discuss how to raise the emotional stakes of a character and how we should feel about the characters.
We talk about transformations -- why people change and justifying those changes.
We learn about presentational versus representational viewpoint.
This WD book was very basic and most of the guidance on characterization is focused on creating characters before you start writing and not fleshing out those characters on the page.
Toward the end of the book when Card does finally begin to address what happens to characters in the actual novel/manuscript he gets a bit preachy and theoretical and makes more than few statements that I do not believe are accurate around POV and tense.
Overall I felt this book was incredibly dated and failed to address key areas of characterization.
A book to help you choose your POV.
Whose story are you really telling?
And what POV would be best for it?
Plus examples (same bits of stories told from different POVs), rules, conventions, pitfalls and advantages of one or the other POV.
Also, if you want to learn what melodramatic writing is and how to avoid it (my case), these are a few excellent examples here that will make you "get" it (I certainly "got" it).
"If your characters cry, your readers won't have to; if your characters have good reason to cry, and don't, your readers will do the weeping."
I've just remembered that I read the noted homophobe's writing guide back in my early teens. Even then, I could tell that a lot of his advice was bollocks - I especially remember the bit about how erudite types were inherently unsympathetic, and a smart hero would have to punch a couple of guys for every time he demonstrated his brains. Yep, as demonstrated by the lamentable obscurity in which characters like Poirot and Sherlock Holmes have long languished, right? Pillock.
It was fine, well-written, and useful, and you couldn't have a book about characters without these issues, but I didn't see a ton that was really new to me.
Possibly the best part of the book is the third section on point of view.
It's not just the range of topics that makes this an excellent craft book, it's how deeply Card manages to probe them; he effortlessly squeezes a huge amount of insight into relatively short sections, while offering truly useful examples and techniques.
I read this book at a point where I'd already read a couple dozen books, a hundred Writers Digest magazines, and a zillion web pages on writing. Upon reading this book, I was EMBARRASSED by how much I didn't know! Characters and Viewpoint is required reading for all fiction writers.
I was particularly fond of his explanation of jeopardy, and I found his explanation on developing sympathetic characters interesting.However, by no means do I think the information in this book should be taken as an absolute answer on the craft of writing.There were times when it felt like the author held a grudge toward some of his topics.(The way he addressed references of "homosexual" characters, his suggestion that characters who show their intellect tend to come across as unsymphathetic, and the way he addressed some of the women characters didn't quite seem...
This has got to be one of the best books about writing. It discusses characterization in depth, with practical tools you can actually use in your fiction. Other articles I've read about characterization inevitably instructs you to create a complete profile about your character, sometimes giving you a form to fill out, with prompts like favorite color and such things, but they don't really show you how to make these details alive in your story. Characters and Viewpoint  shows you just that, how t
This has got to be one of the best books about writing. It discusses characterization in depth, with practical tools you can actually use in your fiction. Other articles I've read about characterization inevitably instructs you to create a complete profile about your character, sometimes giving you a form to fill out, with prompts like favorite color and such things, but they don't really show you how to make these details alive in your story.
  Characters and Viewpoint
 shows you just that, how to craft characters through their actions, reactions, motivation, etc, with good examples throughout.
Characters and ViewpointBy: Orson Scott CardWriter’s Digest BooksTools for Creating Vibrant Memorable CharactersIn “Characters and Viewpoints” Orson Scott Card provides the writer with the tools for constructing colorful credible characters.
Card begins with pointers on inventing characters, where they come from, potential audience, and choosing names.He moves on to help the reader/writer construct characters, including the protagonist, supporting, and minor characters.
Card included illustrations from well-known authors to reinforce the writing principles presented throughout the book.“The Elements of Fiction Writing - Characters and Viewpoint” is an important tool for new writers.
The book is filled with definitive techniques for creating vibrant memorable characters.
This is actually the latest book I've read and it's been incredibly helpful.
I was having trouble with my new book because it's told from two main characters' POVs in first person.
I really felt like I hadn't solidified those characters and I turned to this book to help.
The thing I liked best about this book was that it didn't tell you how to create in depth characterization.
It really is a book of tools, not answers, and those tools have turned out to be very useful.
I would definitely recommend it to anyone having trouble fully realizing their characters.
This book has some good tips for anyone who wants to evolve their characterizations skills.
Unfortunately, the book is not crammed with such tips on every page.
A lot of time is spent rehashing the same point over and over from several perspectives until your eyes start to glaze.
It is possible that this would be helpful for a complete novice, but for someone who has already got a lot of this writing stuff figured out, it just comes across as a lot of fluff and filler.
I will keep the book as a reference, but I could have spent more time writing if this book had been a little less padded.
In this book, Card delved deeper into the subject matter than I've ever seen anyone do before. This is a book I think anyone serious about writing a novel ought to read. It's made even better by the fact that Card's insights apply equally to both literary and mainstream fiction.
This book helped me understand so much about the characterization process - I will return to it many times for reference. Incredible resource for fiction writers.
Quando uma caracterização é bem feita, a história fica mais instigante e gera a sensação de que os personagens agem com realismo.INVENTANDO PERSONAGENSNa primeira parte do livro descreve o processo de invenção de personagens, de desenvolvimento de idéias e concepções em personagens prontos para sustentar uma narrativa.
A MISTÉRIO de uma história pode incluir informação sobre a PSICOLOGIA de um personagem ou pode ser um aspecto do MEIO, que foi previamente mal entendido.Exemplos:Senhor dos Anéis é uma narrativa mais focada na descrição do MEIO (o mundo da Terra Média), e nos EVENTOS (a ascenção de Sauron, guerras, ameaças, lutas, jornadas, etc.).
There's nothing new in books about writing fiction, only on how they're presented.
Others are written by authors who use them as a means of self-aggrandizement constantly quoting examples from their own work.
These may not necessarily be good examples of what they're trying to demonstrate, but they're not about to let an opportunity to promote their work slip by.In Characters and Viewpoint, Card uses straight forward prose and not a lot of examples from his own work and gives good insight into these two important aspects of writing fiction.
This is a solid book about what is stated in the title.
2.5*This book had some good ideas on characterization but overall it complicated topics far more than I'd prefer and I found myself skimming as a result.It wasn't a waste of time but there are books that covers the same ground while also being A. More concise or b. Having more thought provoking content.There are better books on fiction writing and for it's topics characters and viewpoints it didn't do much in the realm of expert ideas for me.
It was still worth reading, as it takes the reader through a number of important considerations about characterisation and allied subjects: not only how to use the techniques, but when and why.
I highlighted a great many useful and well-considered passages.Card's basic view of writing is that in telling stories, we are influencing people to expand their understanding of the human condition; that by presenting fictional characters we can help our readers understand them more than they have ever understood a real person, and to understand themselves.
In order to do this effectively, we need to understand the techniques of characterisation.
Throughout, he explains the techniques in terms of the likely effect on the reader.
I've oft heard this book referred to as the definitive work on effective use of characters & viewpoint in writing but didn't really believe it - until I was "encouraged" by a pro writer whom I respect highly to dig into it.I was wrong.
I know of many authors who have a talent for using just the right technique to depict vivid, dynamic and interesting characters with smooth and consistent use of proper perspective / voice.I'm not one of them and struggle with that aspect of my writing.
I read this book THREE times and still struggle with complete understanding of all its contents.
They understand people and why they are who they are, and why they do what they do.
It is most certainly a reflection of the author's own understanding of the inner workings of himself and the people around him.
He is able to take his life experiences and create worlds and characters that are not biographical or autobiographical in content or detail, yet touch very realistically upon the thoughts, motives, and desires of the audience.
This books shows you how to create believable characters with fantastic qualities and human flaws and how to ask for the best story from each of those characters.I am not an aspiring author, but this author is inspiring.
Such as writing a whole novel in third person, when other things are occurring that the protagonist can't know about they cannot be mentioned.
But there are clever ways certain things can be shown to the reader through the actions of other characters when they are in the presence of the protagonist.
Also when writing in this way, the protagonist can't say what another character thinks or feels, only what they think that character might think or feel, but again, this can be done by using a scene to show the character in dialogue or action that demonstrates how they might be thinking or feeling.
Strong and believable characters are the essence of a good book!
This book is the perfect guide on how to built this kind of characters.
From the very simple things, like their personality to the more complex ones, like the reasons behind their acts, this book explains them all.
It can help you create and develop the characters of your story.
I never thought that characters are the most important thing in a story, even if the storyline is not that strong.
The only thing you have to do is make them as real as they can be.
Wow. This was the first I read in the Writer's Digest series, and the rest are eagerly awaiting me in my library.If you're a writer, this is a must-read. Orson Scott Card explains key storytelling concepts so naturally that this is an absolute pleasure to read for its own sake.I would recommend this even if you have no intentions of writing your own prose. You will have a better appreciation and understanding of narrative and characters after this book, and your reading will never be the same.
Excellent book! Card understands and explains how an author can make his characters believable, fascinating, likeable, or repellant. He has an amazing grasp of human nature, and even if you're not a writer, his book will give you a better understanding of fiction, and new insights into why we act the way we do. (This is the second time I've read it - and I just finished reading it aloud to my teen sons who love to write fiction.)
I'm not saying the information in this book isn't useful, as it is, but it is primarily common sense, or at least it was for me. The bad part is that it is presented in such a dry manner that it bored me and I took forever to get through it. I might have thought better of the book--perhaps assuming that such a topic must be dry like this--if I hadn't read On Writing by Stephen King, which is a terrific read while telling me a lot of similar great information.
A how to write book.Covers topics like sources for characters, how to develop the original notion, the differences between serious and comic characterization, how to engage sympathy, the differences between bit and minor and major characters, where you exactly want to stereotype your character (when he's actually so bit that he's scenery), attitude, points of view, and more.
I graduated from college in English--and yet this is the best book I've read on how to write characters. I thought it was fabulous. I love many of Card's books, so it was also nice to see into his writing mind.
This book answered some questions I still had after doing a lot of reading on the craft. It explains use of tense, line spaces, and provides tons of info on viewpoint and creating characters that come to life.
Re-read... great insight on the mechanics of characterization, with tons of examples. Makes my want to stop reading and start writing.
Intelligent and thought-provoking discussion.
