https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/852415.Woman_in_the_Dark
Another Dashiell Hammett I had not read before and so it was happy times in reading this novelette, as the story does not cover many pages.The story is about a lady who fell in with the wrong crowd and when she tries to leave her predicament she runs into whole new place of trouble.
Sparkling dialogue, policemen that will not get any sympathy votes and the baddie of this story is as awefull as one can get within any such a short story.Well written and fun to read, forget the foreword by Robert B.
Parker who manages to spoil the mood in his opinion about Hammett.well worth your time.
A tiny little book with the words "A Novel" on the cover.
I am pretty sure there is no way this qualifies as a novel.
The next novel Hammett published was "The Thin Man" and he never published another novel after that, to the detriment of us all.This is a bit of a thin story.
The protagonist, "Brazil" (not the country) is a nice character but a familiar one.
The people with money are corrupt and corrupting, the cops are as callous as ever and the system is stacked against our hero Brazil, as usual.
This isn't his greatest by any stretch but it is Hammett and it is pretty good.
Description: On a dark night a young woman seeks refuge at an isolated house.
The man and woman who live there take her in.
But their decency is utterly unequipped to deal with the Woman in the Dark, or with the designs of the men who want her.First published in installments in Liberty magazine and now rediscovered after many years, Woman in the Dark shows Dashiell Hammett at the peak of his narrative powers.
Parker, the author of the celebrated Spenser novels.A one-time detective and a master of deft understatement, Dashiell Hammett virtually invented the hard-boiled crime novel.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kx1qX...
Then a beautiful woman with a broken shoe stumbles through his door.This was one of the last shorter stories that Hammett published before he walked away from crime writing.
It's not his greatest bit of writing but still well worth a look.
To be honest I much prefer the 1934 film version with Ralph Bellamy and Fay Wray in the lead roles.
And you get to see Fay Wray's ankles..
so no contest really.An introduction by Robert B.Parker comments on Hammett's style and suggests the reasons for the story's level of romance.
Κλασσική αστυνομική λογοτεχνία από τον γίγαντα του είδους. Απλή στη πλοκή αλλά γραμμένη με τόση μαεστρία που το ισοσκελίζει. Το μόνο αρνητικό ότι ήταν μικρή
In his introduction, Robert Parker says that he thinks the happy ending of this book is forced.
I disagree, and think that the ending is intentionally ambiguous, leaving room for a darker interpretation.
In any case, why would you write an introduction to a book that gives the reader a low opinion of the ending before he's even begun reading the thing?
Parker also goes on to suggest that "The Thin Man" was a bad book because Hammet had trouble writing about love.
In short, what I took away from this enjoyable little story was that Robert Parker is kind of a dick.
Enjoyable but extremely slight (76 pp.) late novel by Dashiell Hammett has his trademark style and hardboiled attitude, but this is really a novella, if that. More like a long short story. It revolves around a kept woman escaping from her tormentor and the tough ex-con who tries to rescue her. It's always good to read Hammett, but this is decidedly a lesser work on many scores.
Barely a novella, let alone a novel of dangerous romance as it purports to be. This is a decent enough example of Hammett's storytelling style but immediately forgettable too such is the slightness of the concept and the obvious rush to completion.
"She was a tall woman and carried herself proudly, for all she was lame and the wind had tousled her hair and the gravel of the road and cut and dirtied her hands and bare arms and the red crepe of her gown."There she comes across a man known only as "Brazil" and as things are wont to happen in just these kinds of situations, both have just enough baggage and the hint of sordid pasts (or presents) to make things interesting.
A short but very intense novel by one the masters of the "roman noir."4* The Thin Man5* The Maltese Falcon3* Nightmare Town4* Secret Agent X-94* Who Killed Bob Teal?3* Red Harvest4* Woman in the darkTR The Continental OpTR The Return of the Continental OpTR The Glass KeyTR The Tenth ClewTR The Dain CurseTR The Big Knockover: Selected Stories and Short Novels
Nor does it contain the layers of The Thin Man. Red Harvest comes closest with its one man (for the most part) and his attempt to bring down a corrupt town.But in Woman in the Dark the male protagonist is not an investigator.
Brazil (no first name mentioned) is an ex-can, and his trouble with the power structure is forced upon him when he comes to the defense of the Luise Fisher, for whom the book is titled.
But there’s a reason I say “male protagonist.” About half way through the book, when Brazil is rendered ineffective, Luise becomes the story’s lead.
Even his lesser work is interesting.
I am a big fan of Hammett's writing not simply because his world view appeals to me, but because his story-telling was superior, if not outright superb.The man could whip up a mean tale that keeps you spellbound.I read this book ages ago (along with many others that I have written about) and haven't done so recently, so it's probably time for me to treat myself to it once again.It doesn't involve Sam Spade or Nick Charles, so the Hollywood fans of Hammett may not care for it, but those seeking well written fiction should give it a try.
This was another one I read partly for book research since Parker wrote the introduction to this edition. More longish short story than anything else, this is nevertheless a fun piece with at least some of the typical Hammett tropes. The two lead characters are an interesting match. Of note, this one can be read as certainly more romantic and perhaps, more hopeful than other Hammett work. Those looking for the black cynicism of the Continental Op will be in for a surprise.
A well-written novella, featuring many of the tropes of crime fiction of the era. The art lies in the way it is written. We start in medias res, and the story is told from one woman’s point of view. We do not see what she does not see. It unfolds almost in real time, with contractions mainly for sleeping, waiting, and journeys, except at the conclusion where a slight trick of the narrative keeps motives hidden.
That was a fun little story. First apparing as a three part series in 1933. But as is the case with most of Hammett's works, it is timeless. An unexpeted metting puts two people together as they try to escape their situations. Along the way they realize they are alike and try to stay together, but others may have something to say about it.
He writes so beautifully. It's smooth and succinct and pretty vocabulary and a nuanced bad guy. I love him. This was a short read and a real pleasure.
A better class of magazine, a better breed of readers...both may explain why this story seems (to me at least) like a well-written pastiche of Hammett.An accident on a lonely country road, a dazed woman running through the whipping wind, losing the heel of her shoe and twisting her ankle in the darkness, stumbling up a path till she comes to the curtained window-door of a house.
The story is the conflict between the malevolent Robson and the emotionally scarred and ambiguous Brazil over Luise Fischer, a conflict that forces the woman to choose between two worlds.If this story had been written for the pulps, there might have been more violence in it and more sexual overtones, but I think it would have been much less morally ambiguous.
I read a few series so I haven’t composed any entries for those, as I will probably wait until I finish all the books that have been published in them so far.Dashiell Hammett is one the prime writers of noir pulp fiction.
Perhaps that hope would hold more resonance if the characters were fuller, if I could understand how these two souls–the damsel in distress and the ex-con–ended up falling in love in such a short span of time (hardly more than a day!) and under the bleakest of circumstances.I can recommend this book for those who enjoy Hammett’s other works but I don’t know that it would appeal to others.
Loved how Hammett again used the big V to describe his protagonist, this time an ex-con named Brazil.
Much of the action is described blow by blow, movement by movement, such that it often reads like viewing frames in a comic or graphic novel.
The action begins with Luise stumbling toward an unlocked cabin, creating mortal trouble for the claustrophobic protagonist hiding inside.
The republication is in Hardcover (for the first time) with an intro by Robert Parker, who, joyfully for me, recounts for us the Flitcraft parable from the Falcon.
If you find it, read it.
**.Although written and published in three consecutive issues of a pulp magazine, this novella was later published in hard cover by Knopf.
The story indeed should have been published in a pulp format.
It is essentially the story of a woman who was turned into a white slave by a wealthy businessman in America after he met her in Europe.
Hammett attempted to gtive the story some meat by infusing Brazil with a miscellany of traits, but those couldn’t carry the whole story.
Anyway, it is a good example of Hammett’s early writing attempts, probably of interest mainly to Hammettophiles.

The weakest Hammett novel, a hard-boiled romance written in the objective third person, which doesn’t work particularly well.
Read this to know what “hard boiled thriller” meant, and really at a loss...
Το διάβασα όχι σε αυτήν την έκδοση αλλά σε αυτήν της Απόπειρας με τίτλο «Μια γυναίκα μέσα στη νύχτα». Κατά τ' άλλα, καλά.
I have liked other works but Dashiell Hammett but this was not a particularly compelling plot. It seemed like it could have been part of a longer novel rather than a standalone work.
A forgotten Hammett and one forgotten for a good reason. This feels like the first rough draft of a better book that never came to pass. Everything from plot to characters is rough around the edges and it is not just the brevity of the book that is to be blamed for it. It is not paced like a short story but like a bigger novella so even the ending feels rushed and abrupt. Rating - 2/5.
goddammit hardboiled fiction isn't supposed to have happy endings
This short novel, originally serialized in Black Mask, isn’t Hammett’s best, but it’s still a decent pulp story. Rather than Hammett’s usual detective, the protagonist is a convict recently released from prison. When his landlord’s mistress puts him in the middle of a messy domestic situation his newly regained freedom is threatened. Overall, a pretty typical Black Mask story worth reading if you’re into noir.
Too thin, a little confusing, and resolved sloppily. The female lead was pretty well done though.
"Here's a book by Hammett," Parker seems to say in the introduction here.
Meh." Such true-minded introductions are certainly all fine and good, but I wish they came after the book so the reader doesn't go into it thinking, What's the point?And you know what?
Parker is right about this book.
