https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23876.Of_Love_and_Other_Demons
The fourth, Sierva María de todos Los Àngeles, the only child of the Marquis de Casalduero, had come there with a mulatta servant to buy a string of bells for the celebration of her twelfth birthday»Two facts giving rise this novel:Fact number 1.
L'altra fu Sierva María de todos Los Àngeles, figlia unica del marchese di Casalduero, che si era recata con una domestica mulatta a comprare una filza di sonagli per la festa dei suoi dodici anni»Vi sono due fatti all'origine di questo romanzo:Fatto numero 1.
‘’Ideas do not belong to anyone {...} They fly around up there like the angels.’’ Neither Colombia nor Gabriel García Márquez need any lengthy introduction. One of the most fascinating countries of our planet, beautiful, mystical, haunting. A land of tales, magic and lively people. A writer who is rightfully considered one of the finest in the history of Literature, a magician of words, an artist who elevated the novella genre and became one of the pioneers of Magical Realism. Of Love and Other
A writer who is rightfully considered one of the finest in the history of Literature, a magician of words, an artist who elevated the novella genre and became one of the pioneers of Magical Realism.
Of Love and Other Demons is my favourite work by Márquez and the one which initiated me into the beauty of his writing and started my fascination with Colombia.
Cayetano, a gifted young priest, is assigned to her case and he comes to understand that the Devil is actually pretty weak when compared to two great forces: the madness of the human beings and Love.
If Garcia Marquez explored the metaphor or love as a disease in "Love in the Time of Cholera", then here he centers his story around the metaphor of love as madness and demonic possession.
I think the metaphor actually works better than the cholera one.
This book feels much simpler than "Love & Cholera" or "100 Years of Solitude", but it's not -- that's just Garcia Marquez's mastery of writing working for you.
Also, this book focuses on one incident during a very short period of time and therefore reads very differently than Garcia Marquez's more famous extensive sagas.
A partir de allí y de la reclusión en el convento por imposición de su padre el marqués se desarrollará la trama del libro hasta el final.Otro aspecto notable de realismo mágico en Sierva María es su larguísima cabellera color cobre de veintidós metros y once centímetros, algo que García Márquez vio personalmente cubriendo una nota para el periódico en el que trabajaba y que le dio origen a este libro.
Ella no es una niña cualquiera, es un ser humano extraordinario que nadie comprenderá y su entrada en el convento de Santa Clara generará los sentimientos más encontrados.Algunos pasajes de este libro son realmente maravillosos y es en ellos en donde el realismo mágico explota con mil colores, como en este caso:"La vida no les dio tiempo.
أجواء أسطورية ألقانا فيها جابرييل جارسيا ماركيز من البداية و حتى النهايةفي ظروف غير طبيعية تولد سيير
“For you was I born, for you do I have life, for you will I die, for you am I now dying.” Gabriel García Márquez claims in the prologue that he had been told by his grandmother of a legend of "a little twelve-year-old marquise with hair that trailed behind her like a bridal train" who contracts rabies.
Years later, when García Márquez was confronted with the tomb of a similar girl whose copper-colored hair measured twenty-two meters, he decided to write this novel.I really enjoyed this one in particular.
When they informed his father there was nothing to do and she would soon die.The girl became ill and was very ill because of what was thought to be possessed by a demon and the bishop recommended taking her to the convent of Santa Clara to be exorcised.The bishop ordered Father Cayetano Delaura to take charge of the exorcisms of the girl, but he ended up obsessed with her and the bishop removed him from convent and sent him to care for lepers.
Instead of writing a review by jotting down my bleak understanding of the glorious book by Gabo I thought of weaving a little tale based on it and using the characters along with the principle symbolism in the book-'Disbelief is more resistant than faith because it is sustained by the senses' As always I,Father Delaura lost focus and stumbled on my way to the Bishop's room where I was invited to witness an eclipse.
I tried telling the Bishop of my doubts regarding the satanic possession of the girl and maybe rabies was the true reason behind the girl's instability and the girl should be left in the deft hands of doctors or physicians to come up with a cure.
von der Liebe und anderen Damonen = Del amory otros demonios = Del amar y otros demonios = of love and other demons, Gabriel García Márquezعنوانها: از عشق و شیاطین دیگر؛ عشق و شیاطین دیگر؛ از عشق و دیگر اهریمنان؛ از عشق و سایر اهریمنان؛ نوشته: گابریل گارسیا مارکز؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش» ماه فوریه سال 2004 میلادیعنوان: از عشق و شیاطین دیگر؛ نوشته: گابریل گارسیا مارکز؛ مترجم: رضا موسوی؛ ویرایش: حسن گل محمدی؛ تهران، کمال علم، 1374؛ در 208 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای کلمبیایی از نویسندگان قرن 20 م عنوان: از عش
داستان در مورد سختیهای زندگی دختر در صومعه، رابطه او و جن گیرش و چرایی رسیدن خانواده او به این مرحله است .
I read Love in the Time of Cholera when I was in my late teens.
I was gripped by it, possessed by it, which was not quite the same experience as 'liking' a novel, exactly.The next one I picked up after that was this one.
I feel like I am suspended in space while reading his novels, in some world where standards and morality and interpretation don't really matter all that much.
The subject matter is rather heavy, but I didn't feel heavy while reading this in the slightest.
It didn't jar me out the way it would have in another book.I should re-read this soon, now that I think about it.
This book was like a punch in the gut.
And it left me with little to no words, so this review will be short and vague so as to not spoiling anything.Set in the 18th century, 12-year-old Sierva María is bitten by a dog and people believe her to be posessed by a demon.
Thus they send her to a convent where Cayetano Delaura meets her and falls in intense love.Honestly, it's very simple, and yet there's so much in it.
I've got nothing left to say except that you should read this book and see for yourself how beautiful and sad it is.
Alnında beyaz leke olan kül rengi bir köpekle başlayıp, usturayla kazınmış bir kafadan inatla fışkıran ve tutam tutam git gide uzadığı gözle görülen saçlarla biten Marquez romanı.Hakkında denecek her şey hemen hemen söylenmiş. "Her şeyin romanı" diyeyim ben de. Tarih, edebiyat, din, aşk, ahlaki değerler, Avrupa, ne ararsanız var. Ah unutmadan bir de, "Mutluluğun iyi edemediğini iyileştirecek ilaç yoktur."
Because by that time Marquez would have cast his magic spell on you and whisked you away to a neverland where social conventions and the established notions of morality are immaterial.He becomes the puppeteer, the illusionist and the enthralled readers can only follow his lead and believe in what he wants them to believe.While I've given both One Hundred Years of Solitude and Of love and other demons 4 stars, I have to admit I liked this book much more than the former.
2.5 estrellas.El primer libro que leo de Gabriel García Márquez y tengo que decir que me gustó.
Es una novela corta, que se lee en una sentada.-¡Qué lejos estamos!-¿De qué?-De nosotros mismos.El inicio es interesante, aunque tengo que admitir que me costó involucrarme con la historia.
Luego todo se empieza a esclarecer en el segundo capítulo y, a partir de ahí, el relato se disfruta mucho más.No hay medicina que cure lo que no cura la felicidad.En algunas partes se me hizo bastante pesado por el modo de narrar del autor y, al ser lento, también un poco insoportable.
Sin embargo, al ser una historia que me atrajo, no podía despegar los ojos de las páginas.
صادقانه بگم، من به طرز تأسفباری مارکز و آثارش رو نمیفهمم. چه صدسال تنهایی که اعصابمو بهم ریخت و حوصلهمو سر برد، چه این. و البته از گزارش یک مرگ خیلی خوشم اومد و هنوز خیلی آثارش مونده تا قضاوت کنم. ولی کاش مارکزو میفهمیدم. برام ناراحتکنندهست حقیقتاً. از طرفی اسم نمیبرم با ترجمه کدوم نشر خوندم. ولی حتی من که اینقد زبانم داغونه، متوجه ترجمه خامدستانه و سهلانگارانهش شدم. یه ویراستاری درست و درمون هم میخواست که علاوه بر رفع عیوب ِ بنیادی و مفهومی ِ کتاب، حداقل از نظر نگارشی جلوه خوبی داشته باشه.
صادقانه بگم، من به طرز تأسف‌باری مارکز و آثارش رو نمی‌فهمم. چه صدسال تنهایی که اعصابمو بهم ریخت و حوصله‌مو سر برد، چه این. و البته از گزارش یک مرگ خیلی خوشم اومد و هنوز خیلی آثارش مونده تا قضاوت کنم. ولی کاش مارکزو می‌فهمیدم. برام ناراحت‌کننده‌ست حقیقتاً. از طرفی اسم نمی‌برم با ترجمه کدوم نشر خوندم. ولی حتی من که این‌قد زبانم داغونه، متوجه ترجمه خام‌دستانه و سهل‌انگارانه‌ش شدم. یه ویراستاری درست و درمون هم می‌خواست که علاوه بر رفع عیوب ِ بنیادی و مفهومی ِ کتاب، حداقل از نظر نگارشی جلوه خوبی داشته باشه.
It seems this is one you either love or are indifferent to.
The underlying story of a young girl being removed from the comforts of wealth based upon misdiagnosis and ignorance is of itself fascinating, the scene setting fabulous.
To overlay that with a doomed romance between a handsome priest and a prepubescent girl is heady stuff, then further layered with themes of the demonic and the insane, and yet it simply failed to enliven my senses.
Ο μαγικός ρεαλισμός του Marquez ξεχειλίζει από κάθε σελίδα αυτής της σκοτεινής ιστορίας. Η ατμοσφαιρική γραφή του σε πάει σε ένα τελείως διαφορετικό επίπεδο πραγματικότητας, όπου ακόμη και οι περιγραφές φρικαλέων στιγμών δεν σε σοκάρουν. Ούτε καν. Μάλλον θεωρούνται φυσική εξέλιξη της ιστορίας. Το μόνο σίγουρο είναι ότι ο Marquez μας προσφέρει απλόχερα ένα παράξενο παραμύθι. Θλιμμένο και πανέμορφο ταυτόχρονα.
The father, desperate, then appeals to the bishop.Sierva María is sent to the convent of Santa Clara (where she is not well received by the abbess) and Father Cayetano Delaura is appointed to exorcise her.
After several visits to Sierva María, Delaura remains convinced that the child is not possessed and tries to convince the bishop that in turn receives reports from the abbess in which all the disturbances provoked by Sierva Maria are recorded.
For the abbess, everything that is strange in the convent is provoked by the possessed.Delaura and Sierva Maria fall in love and these are removed from the case.
GİZBOZAR içerir.
(gizbozar bundan böyle "spoiler" terimi yerine kullanacağım sözcüktür.
Saçları doğduğundan beri kesilmemiş küçük talihsiz bir kız Sierva Maria.
Ruhuna şeytan girmiş, küçük bedenini cinler sarmış, fısıldayıp dururlarmış güya kulağına.
Ama ya aşk?
Sen niye yetmedin?
O karanlık hücrenin tanık olduğu edebiyat tarihinin en güzel aşk hikayelerinden birinin kahramanı sevgili Rahip Delaura, niye alıp götürmedin onu?
Madem ölümü aşk yüzünden olacaktı, kollarında ölseydi bari...
Aşk hikayesi derinlikli.
Karakterler efsanevi.
Yan karakterler ve onların hikayeleri de son derece ilgi çekici.
Bu kısacık kitaba bu kadar olay, karakterlerin soy sop geçmişleri, duygusal iniş çıkışları dengeli bir şekilde sığdırılmış.
☆4.5/5☆▪Plot 5/5▪Details 5/5▪Characters 5/5▪Romance 3.5/5▪Logic 4/5▪Writing style 4.5/5▪Enjoyment 4.75/5This one gives me The house of the spirits by Isabel Allende vibes, which I love. ♡ I would recommend Of love and other demons, especially to those who have enjoyed The house of the spirits, but thought that story is too long.
En çok da keyfin ve doygunluğun büyüğünü neden kitabı okurken değil de okumayı bitirip kitaplıktaki diğer kitapların yanına yerleştirdikten sonra hissettiğimin üzerine kafa yordum.Bu girizgâhtan, romanın kolay okunmayan, okuyucuyu yoran bir eser olduğu sonucunu çıkartmayalım.
Tüm bu sesleri bastıran ise romanın sonuna doğru peydahlanan imkânsız ve de beklenmedik bir aşk hikâyesi oluyor.
Ve bütün bunlar topu topu 176 sayfa süren ve her hangi bir üçkâğıdı olmayan basit bir hikâyenin içinde oluyor.Aşk ve Öbür Cinler, yine de Gabriel Garcia Marquez’in en çok tanınan, okunan romanları arasında değil.
Τι να πω για τη γραφή του;! Είναι καθηλωτική, μαγευτική και ταξιδιάρικη!
I'll end it there as I don't want any spoilers in this review, because too many people haven't read this gem.As is common in a Gabriel Garcia Marquez novel, Of Love and other Demons is atmospheric ---it truly gave me the feel of the humid seaport town, the sweltering jungle and the musty confines of an 18th century convent, and like any GGM novel, the writing is almost lyrical and unhurried.
Combine all of these and the unique premise, we have the last Gabriel Garcia Marquez masterpiece.If I can only recommend one book, it will be this, Of Love and Other Demons.

My favorite Gabo book so far (and I´ve read more than one or two).
But Gabo leaves enough room for doubt in the reader´s mind by never letting one see things completely from Sierva´s perspective.
Oh, for the days when the opening of a crypt was the biggest news covered in a Colombian newspaper!But what I´m still turning around in my mind is this work as the epitome of the Caribbean.
He´s able to maintain those sensory images in this novel in a way that he didn´t in ¨Love¨.
It will still be my favorite Gabo book.
Really incredible!This was only a very short book but every sentence was really beautiful and I just took my time to savour every word.I'm not sure what magical realism is but it this is magical realism then I love it!!!!Not only did Marques write amazing prose but he was also a great storyteller.Have read a good few of his books but now must read them all!
شاهکار نبود.ترجمه خوب بود. قصه اونجور گیرا نبود. رمان نویسی به وسیله شخصیت پردازی، این می تونه توضیح مناسبی باشه برای از عشق و دیگر اهریمنان. یه جورایی یادآور آدمهای مصروعِ قمارباز داستایوسکی.خوندنش لذت های متعدد و پراکنده ای به تو می ده، مثل گوش کردن به شوپن. برای من از نظر کشف کیفیت نوشتار مارکز حائز اهمیت بود. می تونه خیلی از نظر تکنیک و سبک مورد بحث قرار بگیره، قوت ها و ضعف های گل درشتی داره.
He replenishes her flesh and restores her bones and puts her through a time that can only be received with a heavy heart: Sierva Maria is born and neglected, then bitten by a dog, thought to have caught rabies, put through tumultuous medical examinations (which include drinking her own urine), then thought to be possessed, locked up in a convent presided over by a stern and irrational abbess, is then introduced to a priest, falls in love, and...well, this is the part when you read the story yourself.
Cada vez me enamoro más de la literatura de Gabriel García Márquez. Confieso que al principio fue complicado engancharme a la historia, pero llegó el punto donde no pude dejar de leer hasta llegar el final. Recomendado total. Además de ser un fascinante relato, nos alude con una interesante crítica.
Él es el tipo de autor que nos mandan a leer en las escuelas y colegios y como resultado he leído Crónicas de una muerte anunciada  y El amor en los tiempos del cólera.
Ambos libros estuvieron, en su mayoría, bien, sin embargo, Gabriel García Márquez finalmente me ha ganado con Del amor y otros demonios Este libro es corto comparado con otras obras suyas, pero sin duda el mejor.
Con este libro he disfrutado de absolutamente todo, me han encantado los personajes, el tiempo, el espacio, la descripción del escenario y como un plus está el rico léxico que utiliza Márquez.
Sin duda lo que más he disfrutado son los diálogos.
إذًا فالحب عند ماركيز شيطان ،يُخرج الوقور عن وقاره،ويذهب بالعقل إلى الشتات فلا تدري كنه أفعالهوتصرفاته،فالحب هو الشيطان الأكبر.نحن أمام رواية احتاجت فكرتها لأربعة عقود لتختمر في عقل ماركيز،ويخرجها إلى النور،هي رواية عن جنون البشر وعادتهم الغريبة المريبة،هي رواية عن سطوة الدين وجهل رجاله وجبروت تأثيره،رواية عن جمال الروح ودناسة الجسد،عن عالم غريب من البشر وتقاليدهم وعاداتهمالفكرة في عظمة ماركيز قدرته الرهيبة على إخراج رواية متكاملة من موقف بسيط مرّ به.الرواية جميلة بتضعك في عالمها المنسوج بمهارة كاتب عبقري وسرده الخلاب المبهر.
