https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1320762.The_Ordeal_of_Gilbert_Pinfold
Like the eponymous Gilbert Pinfold, Evelyn Waugh was feeling ill and, suffering from insomnia, self-medicated with powerful sleeping draughts and alcohol.
Waugh decided to escape an English winter with a trip to Ceylon, but once aboard ship, he began to have auditory hallucinations that ranged (in his fictionalised account) from the mundane (a dog) to the insidious (voices prompting him to jump overboard).I assumed that Pinfold/Waugh was suffering from some form of paranoid schizophrenia, but learned that according to the Royal College of Psychiatrists:Both author and protagonist describe alcoholic hallucinosis – a relatively rare complication of prolonged alcohol abuse which involves the development of psychotic symptoms.
I never thought I would write a negative review of a novel by Evelyn Waugh.
After reading about the book in Douglas Lane Patey's "The Life of Evelyn Waugh" it occurred to me that the novel would have had more of an impact in Waugh's lifetime, as Pinfold's hallucinations mirror many of the public criticisms that Waugh himself had to endure.
But from this distance Waugh's social criticism lacks bite.In writing "Pinfold" Waugh seems to have been partly inspired by Muriel Spark's "The Comforters," another novel about seeming halluncinations.
Read it in one sitting (almost) and just wanted to finish it, just so I would never have to open this book again. When I'd made it through Brideshead Revisited, I thought I'd suffered through the least enjoyable book Waugh had written. Boy was I wrong. THIS one was the least enjoyable. Not even slightly funny, or even sporadically funny. It was a lot of nonsense. I get that this book is based on Waugh's own hallucinations and similar experiences (for all intents and purposes, Gilbert Pinfold  is
Read it in one sitting (almost) and just wanted to finish it, just so I would never have to open this book again.
When I'd made it through Brideshead Revisited, I thought I'd suffered through the least enjoyable book Waugh had written.
Boy was I wrong.
THIS one was the least enjoyable.
I get that this book is based on Waugh's own hallucinations and similar experiences (for all intents and purposes, Gilbert Pinfold 
Evelyn Waugh), but not once did I even care about Pinfold/Waugh's predicament.
Was I supposed to find these hallucinations and the attendant mental breakdown funny?
Sorry, Evelyn.
What a delightfully fun little book! Perhaps delightful isn't the best word for a book about a man losing his mind which is based on Waugh's own experience with hallucinations. The subject matter is a bit grim but Waugh's pretty airy prose somehow lightens up what would have an otherwise dark story. Even the cover is adorable!Apparently I have the version censored for the US market, not that I'm sad to miss out on any racial slurs but I do wonder what was taken out. My first book by this author, I'm plan on picking up Handful of Dust next.
Medo e Delírio num cruzeiro. Quem diria, hein, Waugh?
Evelyn Waugh dá-nos um livro alucinante e surpreendentemente autobiográfico.
O autor não faz com que o final seja o objectivo (porque muito cedo no livro adivinhamos a causa de todas as obsessões de que vive o protagonista), mas centra-se sim no caminho até ao desfecho, marcado por situações diversas que nos fazem ficar agarrados à narrativa, e à mente desordenada e cáustica de Pinfold.
Na conclusão da historia, depois do óbvio climax revelado, Waugh proporciona um pequeno twist banal, para os nossos dias, mas relevante para a tal componente autobiográfica da obra.
Ficamos a questionar quanto é que foi exagerado (ou não), neste relato psicológico de uma personagem com muito pouco de ficcional.
I liked Waugh's salute to James Joyce here: the first chapter is entitled "Portrait of the Artist in Middle-Age" and the final two lines are "Chapter One Portrait of the Artist in Middle-Age", a riff on a famous conceit in Finnegan's Wake: the end is the beginning.
I also liked Waugh's title of the final chapter in this book: "Pinfold Regained" (as in Proust's "Time Regained").
Is Waugh intentionally putting himself into the literary realm of Joyce and Proust?
Or is he satirizing the literary world's infatuation with Joyce and Proust by writing a novel in which the author remains delusional during most of the book.
A very disappointing novel from a generally highly regarded author.
Tactical Exercise is almost a proto-Hitchcockian story of an unhappy couple and a murder plot.
Love Among The Ruins is the best story of the bunch and one I would have been quite happy to see expanded, an odd futuristic (sci-fi?) story which is darkly satirical and still quite relevant, a predecessor to Brave New World, Nineteen Eighty Four and A Clockwork Orange it seems.
meh - just a frazzled Waugh working through his own anxieties.
A semi-autobiographical account of a middle-aged author whose self-medication for insomnia led to bromide-induced hallucinations. I've you ever wondered, "I wonder what would happen if one of my favorite Catholic authors wrote about doing some really bad drugs," this is the book for you. The first chapter of the book, "Portrait of the author in middle-age," is a gem all by itself.
I’d never read any Evelyn Waugh before this book, but I went into it with the impression that he was a Big Deal in English Literature because his family saga  Brideshead Revisited  was adapted into a miniseries by the BBC in the 1980’s. My Mom watched it week after week for what seemed like years. She’d turned me onto  Pride and Prejudice  through such a BBC drama (the cheesy 1980 version), so I gave “Brideshead” a chance and watched a few episodes. It seemed promising at the beginning, but I go
I’d never read any Evelyn Waugh before this book, but I went into it with the impression that he was a Big Deal in English Literature because his family saga 
through such a BBC drama (the cheesy 1980 version), so I gave “Brideshead” a chance and watched a few episodes.
It’s an odd subject for a comedy though: it’s the story of a man having a psychotic breakdown with auditory hallucinations while on a cruise ship.
Waugh’s mistake was in getting us to laugh in the beginning.
Perhaps in the late 1950’s, the only way he could convey it was through comedy.
But many books have addressed this subject more openly since then.
This turned up on the audiobook shelves at the library; I recognized the title from my parents' shelves, so I thought why not?
Fortunately (for himself; unfortunately for the reader) he never really does much except send alarming telegrams to his wife and change his tickets for an earlier return.But the audiobook reader (Michael Cochrane) does an excellent job bringing all those voices to life, with distinct tones and accents, and the result is not unlike an old-fashioned radio play.
I doubt I've learned any profound life lessons, but I did enjoy myself for 5 hours.

The book opens thus: "It may happen in the next hundred years that the English novelists of the present day till come to be valued as we now value the artists and craftsmen of the late eighteenth century.
It may well happen that there are lean years ahead in which our posterity will look back hungrily to this period, when there was so much will and so much ability to please." Waugh wrote that fifty years ago.
It did happen, lean years were ahead.
"The Ordeal of Gilbert Pinfold" is one of Waugh lesser works, but it's still better than most novels written since.
an astounding little book. frighteningly easy to read. and had I not known its premise it would have been both terrifying and hysterical. I suppose, literally, it is hysterical. I cannot fathom having had such experiences and voices in my head, and then afterwards writing it!
2.5 stars. I did not enjoy the main story, but included in my edition were "Tactical Exercise" (which I really liked) and "Love Among the Ruins" (which was quite good). So the 2 small pieces really rescued the book for me.
I would never imagine give a Evelyn Waugh book such a low rating. Although there were flashes of wit and the skewering characterizations of Waugh's more humorous books, overall this read like "Life of Pi" as authored by Ken Kesey.
About halfway through this story, I started wondering if there's any point to it. Now that I've finished, I don't think so.
A good late Waugh novel, semi-autobiographical, in which the protagonist (a middle-aged novelist) begins to hear voices while aboard a ship bound for Ceylon. Hilarity ensues.
Не бих казала обикновена история, по-скоро невпечатляваща. Книга, подходяща за кратко пътуване, неангажираща, но и невълнуваща.
Boring & Dragging!The story was about an English writer in his fifties who was well settled in a countryside.
Suddenly he found the cold country dull and set out for a journey to tropics to revive his spirits and strength.On his journey by ship to the tropics,he discovers that ,he is made victim of some cruel joke.
He abandon the ship and continue the journey only to find his troubles increasing.
At end he sadly discovers all this as his mental troubles.I have read many of this kind of plots,hence noting seems new to me.
More I felt it as dragging and unending.
My brother recommended I read The Ordeal of Gilbert Pinfold, and I wish I'd skimmed the first few pages or actually read a synopsis of the book before picking it up. It's not that this book is boring or awful in anyway. It's just weird. It's a weird story about a man who mixes his medication (or has a psychotic break, it's not actually clear which) and begins hallucinating. The hallucinations are bland and, as a result, the entire book is bland. I was unimpressed but I didn't actually dislike the book.
Waugh faces his inner fears in his fictionalisation of his own experience of visual and auditory hallucinations and disconnection from time during a sea voyage from Liverpool to Ceylon in 1954. One wonders how much he held back, but one appreciates his wife's determination to restore him the way he would want, Catholic psychologist and all. The achievements of middle age are questioned in the inner life of a man with fears of his own inauthenticity.
Evelyn Waugh era per me strettamente legato a un romanzo molto suggestivo e struggente, 'Brideshead Revisited'; ritrovando per casa questo vecchio acquisto 'd'occasione', pensavo di imbarcarmi in una lettura sentimentale. Tutt'altro. È, più che un romanzo, un racconto lungo, una storia pervasa da umorismo, che - tra realtà e fantasia - segue il mirabolante passaggio del cinquantenne protagonista oltre le secche della depressione, fino a una maturità attiva.
This is unlike any other Waugh novel I've read. It is quite directly based on his own experience of hallucinations induced by medications. The tone is both mildly satirical at the expense of the narrator (Gilbert Pinfold/Evelyn Waugh) and almost Kafkaesque in its deadpan detailing of paranoid delusions.
It seems a perfectly 'reasonable' chain of 'events', given the amount of pharmaceuticals and alcohol consumed. All that could make it more like the reality of such experiences (I had audio hallucinations myself once) would be a couple of concussions or sound bangs on the head somewhere in the recent or immediate past to complete that sort of disorientation and make real the imaginary.
An insufferable story. Had to plough through this self indulgent tale of a man royally losing his marbles on a posh cruise. Even the "voices" he hears are cheap rudimentary caricatures. Gilbert Penfold pretty much is Evelyn Waugh in paper form. Aaaand that's it. Waste of paper. Do not use up minutes of your life reading this durge!
This is not my favourite Waugh novel. This semi-auto biographical book of his episode of madness was an honest and courageous book. Not many people have written about their episode of madness. Very interesting and In places funny.
aka the portrait of an artist as a middle-aged man, darkly humourous with sharp jabs of insightfulness of a depressed mind.
the proto fear and loathing.
