https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/553704.Jazz_Age_Stories
Jazz Age Stories is like a sampler platter of F.
Scott Fitzgerald for the uninitiated.
The Ice Palace, May Day, and The Offshore Pirate are all classic Fitzgerald stories and, along with the completely bizarre Mr. Icky play, the highlights of this collection.
The others range from good but slight (Benediction, Dayrimple Goes Wrong) to the just plain awful - The Cut Glass Bowl being the most overblown, melodramatic Fitzgerald I've ever read, and Jemina, the Mountain Girl left me anything but mirthful.Still, it's nice to see Princeton F.
Scott finding his voice and playing around with convention (I can picture him clapping his own back at the thought of how "edgy" stories like Tarquin of Cheapside and Dayrimple would be.
F. Scott Fitzgerald has this eerily keen way of capturing the spirit of social time. As each story unfolds, the"correct" way of, and reasons for, being are made apparent from the perspectives of the rich, the poor, the wannabes, the socialites, the lost ones, and all the other "usual suspects" of that period in collective North American culture.
Excellent set of short stories. Fine character studies. Fitzgerald knows how to use language to draw pictures.
I'd read a book about Flappers not long ago (Flapper: A Madcap Story of Sex Style Celebrity and the Women Who Made America Modern), and that was really what I wanted out of the short stories.Since what I wanted was Flappers, what I enjoyed was Flappers.
Fitzgerald's strength is capturing booze-soaked, sparkling women and dandified men.
Same with the 'Diamond' story, it wasn't bad, I'm sure there was some social commentary in there, but ultimately, I wanted the Flappers back.I read the book less than a month ago, and I don't even remember the other stories.
Scott Fitzgerald's work.Like many other teenagers, I read The Great Gatsby in high school and loved it.
At the time, I remember my teacher telling us that much of Fitzgerald's other work was not as highly regarded, and that he was driven to produce short stories et al to fund his lifestyle.I was surprised, then, at how impressed I was with his last, unfinished novel, The Last Tycoon, which I red for a film class in college.
Overall, I liked his stories, but they generally had better beginnings than endings.
As much as I wanted to, I could not bring myself to like most of the stories in this book.
Four out of eleven isn’t too bad, but some of them were just odd.Aside from the subject matter, the only thing that bothered me about his stories was the way he wrote about the South.
It was similar to the way he wrote about cities.
His dialogue and colloquialisms seemed real enough, but everything just seemed too caricatured and maybe it was a conscious effort on his part.Click here to read the rest of the review on my blog, The Oddness of Moving Things.
A mix of some very good and some kind of strange work from the pen of F.
There are two one act plays and a couple of shorts that are more concerned with the phrasing than the plot, and some of them work better than others.
While I disliked "Mr. Icky" and didn't appreciate any of its strange humour, the other drama, "Porcelain and Pink", was absolutely great.
Scott was trying to be uproariously funny, he ends it with an very well crafted and emotional ending that betrays, a little, the comic intent of the story but is all the better for it.Overall a nice, if uneven, collection.
An excellent sampler of Fitzgerald's early work, containing all of Tales of the Jazz Age and Flappers and Philosophers. Quite uneven, with some of Fitzgerald's best work ("A Diamond As Big As The Ritz," "Bernice Bobs Her Hair," etc.) side by side with some really skippable stuff ("Mr. Icky" and "Tarquin of Cheapside" notably). All in all, Jazz Age Stories is not nearly as good as This Side of Paradise or The Great Gatsby, but it is an invaluable look into Fitzgerald's early shorter work, which, with the exception of the biggest hits, is unjustly passed over.
These short stories possess awfully self-absorbed and pretentious characters. Interestingly enough, this was my first encounter with Fitzgerald. Might be my last, though I'm aware that 'Great Gatsby' is supposedly his magnum opus. The stories are entertaining but of abysmal personnel. "The Four Fists" is decent and moralistic. Towards the end of the collection, I found myself racing to the finish. Never a good sign.His writing is superb. It's just the content that's dismal. However, we must be reminded that he was writing these stories to pay the bills. He knew they weren't good. I hope.
Uneven collection.
A couple of these stories are really bad.
I had always heard that Fitzgerald thought of short stories as a way to make money, and poured his art into his novels.
Or something like that.
That said, some of these are amazing and worth reading.
"The Diamond as Big as the Ritz" is a weird, weird story, almost science fiction.
"May Day" is catastrophically depressing (especially if you're an illustrator, ha!), but beautifully written.
I can't remember what the second-to-last one is called, but it's pretty much a downer too, albeit filled with lovely, if slight, character descriptions and plenty of glittering, stupid Jazz Age dialogue.
I'm not really a fan of short stories in general. Their main attraction for me is that they're a good option when you want something that can be picked up and set down at ready intervals (which was quite hard to do with Tolkein, say). The page constraint limits the richness and depth of the character development and more often than not, the conclusion is often all too pat/glib. Jazz Age Stories was like that in many ways - entertaining, clever but ultimately throwaway tales. Still, it's not a bad way to spend a lazy afternoon.
i love f. scott's short stories because each one manages to bring new characters to life, all of whom seem similar at first but become distinct in their own ways. each character is doing fine until a problem rises up like a spike from the ground and it's interesting to watch how fitzgerald uses this as character development. i like how each story has the potential to be depressing but he seems to put an optimistic twist on the most unpleasant of situations. if you like short stories i definitely recommend this. fitzgerald truly was a master of this form.
"You've been drinking, Gordon.""Thanks." He inclined his head gravely. "Thanks for the information."----------------------------------------Hard to say if I love Fitzgerald or just the gauzy, boozy, 1920s fantasy-world that he's branded ... either way, a fun book. These are short stories of varied readability, but the four stars are because I laughed out loud at the gag in "The Camel's Back" and the banter of "Porcelain and Pink". He finds fewer excuses for verse than in "This Side of Paradise", but I'll take what I can get.
I bought this book to read on my last trip. The short short stories are about the right length for my in-flight attention span. Most of the stories have a tidy ending with a twist of irony. My favorites are The Offshore Pirate and Head and Shoulders. I love Fitzgeralds writing style.Even though I know they were written almost 100 years ago, I was still a little surprised at the classism and racism in the writing.
First bit of work I have read by this author and I understand this was a collection of early bits intended for magazines etc as such I guess I can excuse the patchiness of the material...some of it is very good and the storys embrace genres ranging from gritty realism,fantasy and even farce...fairly enjoyable but I am guseeing not the authors best..certainly a worthwhile taster though.
A must read for anyone who is in love with the Roaring 20s as I am. Some stories are better than others, but the entire work is pure Fitzgerald and there is no one who has captured the Jazz Age better. My favorite was "The Glass Cut Bowl". For some reason, this story still haunts me (probably because I am the owner of a 19th century glass cut bowl). Fitzgerald remains one of my favorite authors.
I read only the introduction by F. Scott's daughter and the story The Curious Case of Benjamin Buttons. The film starring Brad Pitt came out last year, and I was astounded that a 2 hour epic feature was drawn from the sparse 20 or so pages. This author's confidence and style was something akin to Steinbeck's for me. Classical, elegant, sure.
While the stories are clearly products of their times, this collection of short stories by Fitzgerald is worth reading despite the sexism and racism that you will encounter . Some of his sentences are just pure beauty. I'm not always a fan of short stories and I feel like they're often hit or miss, but this collection was definitely a bit more hit than miss for me.
In this short story in this collection - Three Hours Between Planes - Fitzgerald handled this delicate story of first love brilliantly, springing out the surprise only towards the end. He certainly knows how to tell a good story.
I read these in High School. Let's say 1994. Loved these stories. There is one story in here that I always think about. A man is born in reverse and his life starts out as an old man and he goes back to a baby and then nothing. Is that death??
In light of contemporary race issues in America, some of the stories were vaguely tough to stomach with the outdated dialect and disdain for any character not graduated from Yale. The times were obviously different. Fitzgerald is too obsessed with white youth and privilege, but this is no news.
I only read one story from this book. I read The Curious Case of Benjamin Button. It was very short and there was no development of the characters. Benjamin lived a sad, lonely life with no one really caring for him. His family didn't even care for him. Not worth reading.
These were some of the first stories that he wrote and you can definitely tell the difference between them and the books that he wrote later in life once his life of craziness with Zelda had started to take a toll on him.
Most of these stories are not F. Scott's best work, so I am torn between 3 and 4 stars. However, because three of the stories are so good - "The Jelly Bean," "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button," and "Hot Blood, Cold Blood," I went with 4 stars
I enjoyed 5 of the offered stories: The Camel's Back, May Day, Porcelain and Pink, The Curious Case of Benjamin Button and "O Russet Witch! May Day and "O Russet Witch! proved to be my personal favorites. They were certainly worth reading.
Even though I wasn't that thrilled with The Great Gatsby, I did enjoy this collection of stories. Plenty of biting humor and wit; wicked, understated commentary, and lots of the "feel" of the time period, which is what I found a bit lacking in "Gatsby".
I have only started reading books of short stories in the last few years. some of the short stories in Tales of the Jazz Age are really enjoyable, and some of them are a bit average. Overall, I did enjoy it. Easy read.
Brings me back to Fitzgerald who I mooned over as a teenager... I find I still like him. Wild, sometimes wicked, sometimes pathos-laden, surprisingly contemporary. I am going to re-read all of him this year.
What a curious collection of stories! Some were quite fantastic, others were funny, some were sad. I really enjoyed these for their subject matter and their style. Most memorable are The Camel's Back and The Curious Case of Benjamin Button.
A collection of some of Fitzgeral'ds best and most original short stories; some seem forced (he often cranked these out for quick cash), but not as much as his later ones, like the Pat Hobby stories of Basil and Josephine collection.
