https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/163907.The_Secret_People
OK, now that we have mushrooms, caverns, deserts and seas all we need is the people to finish our story.
They don't want anyone to leave, they want to keep their world a secret.Now here's my water problem, I'm already convinced the sea should be fresh water or pointless, but from things I've read it seems to be salt water:"Besides, it's salt water-it's got into some of the reservoir caves already, and joined the fresh water streams."So it is salt water and if I'm right will not help the desert at all.
Oh, and no one in the novel looks anything like the cover picture of the strange guy with mushrooms growing out of his head, that's just one more odd thing about the book.
So, after reading reviews I feel a bit like I'm about to praise an "OK" book to the sky.
This is John Wyndham's first book (as nearly every reviewer has said), however, I don't feel it shows, not anymore more than The Day of the Triffids.
What starts as a hot, dull vacation in Africa, soon turns into a nightmare for Mark and Margaret, after one flight over The New Sea which has covered a part of the Sahara Desert.
After the halfway part things slow a little, Mark and Margaret are fighting for their freedom and their lives.

Let me explain.The gist of the novel is that a secret society of pygmies lives deep underground below the Sahara Desert.
It seems that once the pygmies catch you in their lands, they never let you leave and so their society has indeed remained secret for all these hundreds of years.But their world is threatened now by flooding as the Sahara keeps getting pumped with more and more water and more and more cave ins occur which will eventually flood their homes.Oh, and one other cool concept I almost forgot - the pygmies have developed cold light.
Captured and imprisoned,our heroes Mark and Margaret must survive as they strive to escape the doomed caverns.John Wyndham was one of my parents favorite sci-fi authors so I read a lot of his growing up, I was amazed to find one I had not read.
The story telling, writing and world crafting are every good as I remembered them to be and I thoroughly enjoyed this story.It could be argued that it has not dated well; written in 1935, the setting is in some ways very true to it's era and in that way very dated; the men and women are 30's people through and through, appearances, social gender and imperialism and all, I found that quite fascinating but I am not sure it would be every modern readers cup of tea.
Non male; più che fantascienza, si tratta di avventura esotica alla Haggard con tutti i pregi e i difetti di quel genere.Non entusiasma, il finale è scontato ed ha una sua tragica bellezza; si legge con piacere, ma nulla più.
So werden unser Pilot und seine Freundin (noch immer nebst Katze) zu Gefangenen unter Tage; bewaffnet einzig mit der Hoffnung das Tageslicht irgendwann einmal wiederzusehen.Wem das nicht Anfang-zwanzigstes-Jahrhundert genug ist, dem kann man nicht mehr helfen.
Es machte durchaus Spaß jenen Bogen gemeinsam mit seinen Figuren zu spannen, den diese von Kinderbüchern über Wichtel und Gnome hin zu einem vergessenen Pygmäen-Volk zogen.Ich würde die (kurze) Lektüre sicherlich jenen Empfehlen, die gerne einmal etwas von Wyndham lesen wollen, weil er sicherlich ein bedeutender Schriftsteller auf seinem Gebiet war.
The Secret People was one of science fiction author, John Wyndham's first books, written under the pen-name, John Benyon in 1935.
However, it was still an entertaining adventure, somewhat in the same vein as Jules Verne's Journey to the Center of the Earth, and maybe more so, HG Wells' Land that Time Forgot books.The Secret People is set in Africa, in the Sahara Desert.
Unfortunately, an accident lands them, floating, in the middle of the sea.Caught in a whirlpool, the are sucked beneath the surface into a world of tunnels and caves under the desert.
The Secret People is one of the first (or THE first...I can't recall) books written by John Wyndham (and originally published under the name John Beynon).
And the book is set in (the future) 1964 and Wyndham identifies Queen Elizabeth II as the reigning monarch of Great Britain...BUUUUUUUT, when the book was published, in 1935, she wasn't in the direct line of succession.
How freaky-deaky is that!!??So, while I do believe that John Wyndham's writing definitely improved over time, I can now see that his ideas have always been rather revolutionary.
Kudos, Mr. Wyndham!
Don't get me wrong, I think Wyndham is a great writer, but his convoluted descriptions are a bit too much for me-- fanciful and elaborate as they may be, they distance me from the story instead of drawing me in because I just don't know what he's going on about.
I think the implicit commentary on how humans have impeded on flora and fauna for their own (selfish) benefit is worth dwelling upon.
(At first, I did think that the people consuming mushrooms were a reference to drugs and that implied the story was going to be a whole hallucinatory process lol)
The future is represented by the private jet plane that protagonist Mark flies over the newly created Sahara Sea; the past is the ripping yarn presented here that could easily have come from the pen of the likes of H G Wells or Jules Verne, as Mark and his partner Margaret are sucked underground into a world of Bast-worshipping pygmies.
Margaret is a fascinating character - a strong independent woman (Mark calls her a "brick" at one point - an old fashioned English term for a reliable and dependable person), but when she finally reappears her story seems a little boring compared to Marks, as she finds herself the handmaiden to the cat who accompanied them and who is worshiped as a god by the pygmies.
The Secret People was Wyndham's first full-length novel and was published under his nom de plume John Beynon.
His influences are obvious in this book (not least HG Wells' The Time Machine) and it's clearly written by a young man - the characters are a tad superficial in type and motivation and there's an excess of telling and explanation.
The book is also one of his weakest scientifically - I'm not sure if the medical world knew about vitamin D deficiency in 1935, but many of Wyndham's 'secret people' would have been suffering from it.
Another great Wyndham book! (Terrible jacket art. The "secret people" are supposed to be grey, and why are there mushrooms on their heads? Weird.) Still liked "Day of the Triffids" "The Chrysalids," and "The Midwich Cuckoos" better. This was a little bit Jules Vern-ey. Good characters, cool scenario... a fun read.
probably like countless people before me, i liken this novel to Journey to the Center of the Earth. One of the odd things was the respect for women so lacking in traditional science fiction or probably any novel back then. i just thought it slightly interesting. i didnt find the book overly compelling, and i dont even know if i would recommend it, but im glad i read it either way.
I like the worlds created by writers last century, ideas that maybe seemed plausible then, can look rather silly now, but all the same give fascinating insight into how people thought. This was a good idea, and well conveyed, and a good read.
Master of prose John Wyndham's first published book, beautifully written as all his books are, following the story of a young couple sucked through a whirlpool into the world of strange forgotten underground pygmies.
This was his first book and it shows. I enjoyed it but it didn't engage me as much as The Day of the Triffids or The Midwich Cuckoos. Still, an interesting read.
A science fantasy of the Hidden World genre, The Secret People is set in Northern Africa, where the colonial powers have flooded the lower elevation regions of the Sahara Desert, creating a New Sea. Wealthy English tourist Mark Sunner decides to impress Margaret, the woman he’s recently met during a stopover in Algiers by giving her an airborne tour of the New Sea in his new rocket plane.
Naturally, there’s a mysterious explosion, the plane goes down in the middle of the Sea, and when our intrepid duo try to turn the cabin into a boat to sail it to shore, they are trapped by a whirlpool, where the weight of the water has broken through the ceiling of a vast cave beneath the former desert, and fall to the hidden depths below.
Having been a fan of John Wyndham since I first read "The Day of the Triffids," back when I was a teenager, I was looking forward to reading "The Secret People," a book I purchased many years ago but never got around to reading.
If I had read this before his other works, I might never have gone on to read "The Day of the Triffids" "The Midwich Cuckoos," "Out of the Deeps" (aka "The Kraken Wakes"), or "The Chrysalids." But who knows, maybe if I had read this as a teenager, I might have enjoyed it more.
I think my mistake with reading this book was leaving it so long each time between picking it up.
It’s one of those books that requires concentration, especially once it gets going and more characters are introduced.The world created is absolutely superb, drawing on subjects already public knowledge - albinism, ancient Egyptian belief, and the ever relevant topic of the search for new energy sources.
The characters are interesting and believable, though they are certainly dated in terms of racial stereotypes from the time the book was written (1935).
I’ll definitely read more of his books, but I think I need a break from early 20th century writing styles for a while!
This is an early novel by John Wyndham, and as such the language is of the time it was written, which could shock or offend some people.
Having said that the story is a good example of the scifi of the time featuring english adventurers who find themselves falling into caves in the desert.
There they discover the long lost inhabitants, who wish to remain lost and take them prisoner.
With other prisoners they are in a race against time to escape the locals and to regain the surface.The story is good inof itself but not as good as later Wyndhan novels
Overall, this novel was easy to read and pretty interesting. The concept (tumbling into a society that live underground) was enticing, but I don't think Wyndham was really able to develop a fleshed out story in less than 200 pages. There were so many details and plot points woven in that a lot of them ended unsatisfactorily and weirdly. It's obvious that this was his debut novel and I am happy that he improved greatly afterwards.
I picked up The Secret People because I'd read two other John Wyndham books, The Day of the Triffids and Chocky, and truly enjoyed them. The Secret People (one of his earlier books) is an interesting read, definitely a book written in the early-mid 1930s. Unfortunately the plot is a bit pushed and the characters are a bit too obvious for my liking. (view spoiler)[The idea is a nice one, though, for explaining why people disappear in the desert. (hide spoiler)]
Came to this having read and loved the books that Wyndham is better known for, and while the main concept is interesting, this novel has aged pretty badly. A relatively diverse group of characters provides him with the opportunity for quite a lot of racism.Stick with The Day Of The Triffids, The Chrysalids, The Kraken Wakes, etc.
It is very superficial compared to John Wyndhams other books. But not bad for a first novel. Pretty dated (it is from 1935, and that shows).
Enjoyable read. Not quite up there with his best but nonetheless some challenging ideas if a little rooted in it's time.
A strange and interesting read. A compelling world, intense characters and high stakes. Well worth a read although it does have a lot of old style racism and patches of violence.
I received this book as a Goodreads Giveaway. Thank you. I thought it was an interesting novel of its time.
http://gnomeship.blogspot.com/2018/05...
In reality, Wyndham had been writing under different pen names since 1925, mostly short stories but there were three published novels of which The Secret People (1935) was one.
So the re-publication by Penguin Books of this early work gives Wyndham enthusiasts, old and new, the chance to trace the development of his writing.
But the seeds of change are there, reflected in question about death, religion, race and cruelty to animals.The Secret People most reminds me of another lost world book, published a few years earlier and, certainly a major Hollywood film at about the time Wyndham was writing this book.
