https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40530.Time_and_Again
it was leaving behind beguilingly innocent Liberty Stone, who'd shown him a love more powerful than Time Was."Spoilerific Summary: Caleb crash-lands his ship in the mountains of Oregon during a rainstorm- and Libby is watching from the front porch of her family's cabin.
I started reading this book and realized I had read these two stories already. I don't usually read books regarding time travel, but these were so very well done. Fun to see how she described the differences in the times, the people and how they lived in these two different time jumps. The romance was so sweet, it made me tear up at times. Two great reads by Nora Roberts
I'm reading this and thinking, "Okay, so I have this male character who is-of course-oooh so handsome (as is his brother, OF course...so shallow and not realistic but anyhow) and he is arrogant, pushy, bossing, demeaning, manipulative, and takes advantage of women, with no character whatsoever...and I'm supposed to swoon over this fellow and come out wishing I had a man like him (b/c isn't that the stupid goal of these novels anyhow?) ?" The description on the back made me think this novel would perhaps be something other than what it was but yeah, I was ready to be done w/ this one and read something that wasn't pointless trash.
There are two short stories in this book, but they are so similar I was...bored reading the second story. It seemed to me the same story started over, but with different characters.The first story is with Caleb and Liberty. It was neat. It's a sci/fi (him), timewarp caused time-travel read. I enjoyed it.The second story is with Caleb's brother and Libertie's sister (Sunny). He's searching for his brother who went missing...Naturally, Caleb and Liberty are out of town while Sunny is staying at the same the same country house (trying to find herself).
Really good.
Two full-length stories about time travel and two brothers and two sisters (Time and Again: Hornblower-Stone #1-2)My TakeTime Was and Times Change are both soft romances, but with a twist of time travel tossed in. They're sweet with no great dramas and very predictable. The Stories Time Was  finds Libby Stone, cultural anthropologist, rescuing Caleb Hornblower when his ship crashes. It's a shy scholar versus the intrepid sky pilot as they each try to understand the other.It is cute that this man
Two full-length stories about time travel and two brothers and two sisters (Time and Again: Hornblower-Stone #1-2)My TakeTime Was and Times Change are both soft romances, but with a twist of time travel tossed in.
finds Libby Stone, cultural anthropologist, rescuing Caleb Hornblower when his ship crashes.
finds the brilliant and driven Jacob Hornblower furiously flying back through time to rescue his brother while 300 years earlier, the perennially restless Sunny Stone is wondering why she thought she needed the peace and quiet of her parents' isolated cabin.
I really enjoy time travel novels, though I haven't read many of them yet, and this one didn't disappoint.
And Times Change is about how Jacob tracks Caleb down in the past to convince him to come home.
Both books were good reads.
I enjoyed all of the characters and I though Roberts did a good job bringing out the quirks of each Caleb and Jacob when they discover 'old' things from Libby and Sunny's time.
I do wish that we learned a little bit more about Caleb and Jacob's world, though.
We got a few little glimpses into it, but I wanted to see more!
This book includes Time Was and Times Change. Both stories about brothers who travel back in time, one by accident and the other on purpose. I enjoyed both stories and thought the couples in them were a good fit for each other. Both stories had a sweet romance and a nice bit of humour while the brother's try to fit into the past while not knowing how to work "old fashioned" appliances or understand the slang terms people use.I had a good time with both these stories and thought the endings of both were really good.
Anything that made that made u teary eyed or cried deserves a five.
I really enjoyed this book. Loved the concept, loved the characters.......but I would have liked more....Any followups?????
I love Nora Roberts! I read all of her books.
I don't normally read romance novels, but I made an exception for this one because of the time travel stories.
In the first book Caleb Hornblower, a gorgeous "hunk" of a man from two centuries in the future, crashes his space craft near the mountain home of Liberty Stone.
Caleb has to repair his space ship to return to his life two centuries in the future, but, of course, he and Liberty fall in love, and this complicates matters.
That was a bit distracting for me.)In the second book Caleb's brother Jacob travels back in time to bring Caleb home, and he meets Liberty's sister Sunny and predictably falls for her.
This book has book 1, Time Was, and book 2, Times Change.
Book 1, Time Was, follows Caleb Hornblower from the 23rd Century and Liberty Stone from the 20th Century.
I liked the first book and enjoyed reading it.
But I had hoped there would be more sci-fi and time travel involved.
While book 2, Times Change, follows Caleb's brother, Jacob, and Liberty's sister, Sunbeam.
I found book 2 to be really similar to the first, because of which I found it hard to get into.
Although the last chapters got better.
Overall, a lot of "love at first sights" but they were good romance novels.
I usually love Nora Roberts but this was an extremely hard book to get thru my mind wandered the entire time and I kept waiting for anything to happen. The whole book consisted of should I stay or should I go back to my time. Nothing else there was no plot twists or anything happening no character development or history on their back life. It was terrible by the end you really didn't care what they did anymore . which is disappointing
All I can say about this book is I finished it. Don't ask me why I bothered to finish it, I guess I don't value my time. Nothing worked. She is a scientist, but has no scientific curiosity. He falls madly in love with her, but why? She is hardly ever nice or interesting, he keeps thinking she is but the author failed to show that to us. The book was just so dumb.
It's a little slow moving at times, since the entire plot is their falling in love and getting to know one another.
He managed to give her an orgasm before realizing what he was doing - and she's fighting him the whole time and I was wondering just what kind of guy he really is...
In the first book, we are told that Cal made it to the 20th century while returning from Mars and going to L.A. In between Mars and Earth, he ran into a black hole and got slingshotted to the past.
Nora Roberts does science fiction kind-of!!She glosses over the future (which is lovely of course)! And focuses on the Hornblower brothers and the sisters from the 20th century. Entertaining fluff but won't stay with you!!!
It's a little slow moving at times, since the entire plot is their falling in love and getting to know one another.
He managed to give her an orgasm before realizing what he was doing - and she's fighting him the whole time and I was wondering just what kind of guy he really is...
In the first book, we are told that Cal made it to the 20th century while returning from Mars and going to L.A. In between Mars and Earth, he ran into a black hole and got slingshotted to the past.
Sort-of SPOILER..... I usually love Nora Roberts stories but this one didn't feel original and lacked substance. It was definitely full of intimate moments. I wanted more of a story line versus a story of almost constant love-making.
Two of the first time travel books I read, published in 1989 and 1990. I enjoyed them then and now-- straight romance in Nora Roberts usual style. The info on the time periods was interesting and the premise was fun for me.
Great novel couldn't drop the novel i just love it Robert creates books that just captives her readers
Light and fun time travel novels with two brothers and two sisters 250 or so years apart.
Not the best work of Nora Roberts, but enjoyed it anyway.I read only Time was and looking forward to reading next part. The characters and their relationship put a smile on my face a lot.
I've probably read and re-read this one 10 or more times! One of my absolute faves!
This was cute, but I would've wanted more details on the future.
brilliant...so enjoyed!
What absolute crap. Its a Hallmark Movie just begging to be made.
Fun, fast read. I figured out most of the ending...
I don't think it could have been published if it wasn't for the fact that Nora was already an established writer.
But I don't want to read half a book that's about sex.
Characters: I'm not a hardcore feminist (As in, I don't think about it that much) but reading this novel made me FURIOUS.
The way Caleb treated Libby was atrocious - I would never want a boyfriend like him!
I think at times, Nora becomes too descriptive, making it harder to read the book, but I acknowledge her style and don't condemn it in any way.
The first book tells the story of Caleb Hornblower, I man who accidentally enters a time warp while flying a cargo ship in 2250 and is transported 300 years into the past.
The second book is the story of J.T. Hornblower, Caleb's brother, who intentionally travels back in time and is shown the ropes by Sunbeam Stone, Liberty's sister.
I rarely read Nora's Silhouette books, I find them too much romance and not enough story.
