https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62309.Magic_Knight_Rayearth_I_Vol_1
L'anime l'ho visto ma non mi ricordo se mai tutto ma non importa il nome Clamp vuol dire comprare a scatola chiusa.
Purtroppo questa è la seconda volta che compro questo manga.
Volevo rileggerlo e andando per prenderlo vedo che i tre volumi si sono attaccati ad altri.
(Allora te le sognavi le sovracoperte plastificate che si sarebbero staccate facilmente).
All'inizio ci sono rimasta male mai poi ho visto sul sito di Ale, Alessandro Srl fumetteria, che aveva ancora i vecchi volumi verticali.
Gli altri prossimamente sperando non finiscono.PS: Quando si è strappata la copertina è stato come ricevere una pugnalata.
Now I am a naughty old boy :P), I found the story standard.If I read the manga now, I would say the story is obviously predictable with thin characters.
But to find the worst aspect of this manga, I should read until the end.If part 1 has a so-so story, part 2 is worse.
The plot is reminding me of "The Neverending Story" movie.What I don't like about the shrinking world of this story is: on part 1, I only got a glimpse of the fantasy world (not much details like the daily lives, castles, people, etc.) then on part 2 I got even less.
Tiene otro tipo de argumento y se nota que es un poco más moderno.
Las escenas de acción y el desarrollo en general son más detallados y expresivos, y abarca menos historia en mas o menos la misma cantidad de páginas (pero se disfruta lo lindo que es todo).Me mata el humor que tiene, con los personajes convirtiéndose en chibis en medio de un momento serio para aliviar un poco la tensión.
Quien se roba la historia de todos modos en Mokona, que aún sin diálogos tiene más personalidad que más de un humano.
Magic Knight Rayearth - Taikasoturit 1 oli nostalginen matka nuoruuteeni.
Katsoin nimittäin mangasta tehtyä animesarjaa tv:stä ollessani vielä yläasteella vuonna 2000.
Katsoin myös Sailor Moonia samoihin aikoihin.
Varasinkin heti kirjastosta lisää luettavaa, sillä tarina pääsi vasta alkuun.
Taikasoturien tarina on jaettu kahteen kolmiosaiseen julkaisuun Taikasoturit I ja Taikasoturit II.
Yllätyin kuullessani, että CLAMP on itseasiassa nimimerkki, jonka taakse piiloutuu neljän hengen piirtäjäporukka, joka on luonut myös muita suosittuja sarjoja MKR:n lisäksi, joskin se on varmasti yksi tunnetuimmista ryhmän teoksista.
Magic Knight Rayearth sopinee parhaiten vähemmän mangaa lukeneille, sillä se on hyvin perinteistä fantasia-tyttömangaa, vaikka välillä se tiedostaa jopa itse oman kliseisyytensä ja ottaa siihen humoristisesti kantaa.
My opinion of this book: complicatedIt acts like a video game. One with a super long exposition where next to nothing happens. One where you sit and stare, unable to do anything for forever. Too much talking, not enough action, and when we get action, it's anti-climactic. Though, CLAMP has always seemed to struggle with fight scenes (excepting Tsubasa: RESERVoir CHRoNiCLE).The characters, however, are pretty good, though the art can be a little... off at times.
A beautiful return to girls’ fantasy stories such as The Wizard of Oz, The Seven Year Old Wonder Book, and Alice in Wonderland, mingling with elements of the legendary epic and a classic roleplaying scenario conveyed within manga form.
The girls are a little older than in the stories mentioned above, but the fate of a magical world is in their hands, which they struggle to save.
Hikaru, Umi, and Fuu are going to need all the help they can get, as well as to muster their own strength.
I'm going to describe the different elements for you but even though these elements are handled well, this is definitely the type of work that depends on your personal preferences.✵ The story-telling is specific to the time it was written in which includes a fast and typical quest introduction.✵ This is a pure portal fantasy, complete with normal high schoolers obtaining magical powers, having to save a princess, and wielding weapons for the first time.✵ The characters are distinctly different but not so much that they fall into tropes.
I do remember the anime! Glad I picked this up!
CLAMP-nimimerkin alle kätkeytyvän manganelikon "Magic Knight Rayearth #1: Taikasoturit" (Punainen jättiläinen, 2013) on taikatyttömangaa kliseisimmillään. Hikaru, Umi ja Fuu, kolme tavallista koulutyttöä, tempaistaan kesken luokkaretken Cephiron fantasiamaailmaan. Siellä he saavat kuulla olevansa legendaarisia taikasotureita, joiden apua tarvitaan prinsessa Emerauden vapauttamiseen ja maailman pelastamiseen. Ja sitten lähdetään matkalle, jonka aikana mitellään erilaisia demoneja vastaan ja päästään selville omista voimista.Sarjakuva on yllättävän viihdyttävää luettavaa, vaikka mitään erityisen omaperäistä siinä ei olekaan. Genren piirteille osataan myös vähän naureskella ("Tavallisesti fantasiapeleissä aseet ostetaan itse kerätyllä rahalla", s. 137). Taidekin on ihan näppärää.Positiivinen yllätys!
Three ordinary schoolgirls from Tokyo are transported to another world.
Summoned by the imprisoned Princess Emeraude, Hikaru, Umi, and Fuu are meant to become the so-called Magic Knights - legendary warriors who alone can save the princess and return peace to the world of Cephiro.
Warned that should they fail, they can never return to their own world, the girls set out on their quest where danger awaits them at every turn.
This was one of the first manga series I ever read (and re-read, many many times) - I loved it then and don't love it any less now.
The benevolent ruler of Cephiro has been kidnapped by the evil Zagato, and the girls must brave many trials in order to become the legendary Magic Knights and save the land.
But through it all, their kindness, loyalty, and courage supports them, and they learn to believe in themselves and each other.This story is fairly predictable and commonplace - magic powers, legendary destiny, the ancient mage guide, ordinary people learning to battle monsters, etc...
But the rest of the art is clear, and I like the classic manga style.The writing is good, but the story is nothing super special.
One of my favorite CLAMP series!!
DNF (~33%) - I like the characters, but they and the plot don't really stand out enough for me.
I loved it,but it was sad when The magic knights had to kill the princess
Solid start! I’m excited to read more!
Interesting! Gotta love Clamp! They've got me hooked on the story and loving the characters, as usual!
Oh, I love this. I love the CLAMP, I love their style, their pictures and their stories.
Magic Knight Rayearth review Art: CLAMP's Work is iconic and beautiful very soft and shojo and mystical ACharacters: Hikaru, Umi, and Fuu. Hikaru is an animal lover and short smart and determined, umi is tough and hard headed at time and fuu is the air headed humors logical pessimistic these three girls along with the other characters they come across are very well defined and while there names are hard to remember at first which one is which their personality shine though enough that you know who is who and are never confused.
The characters are well defined and unique B Story: Hikaru, Umi, and Fuu are three 14 year olds who get transported to a magical land to save the world.
When adding books to the cart on one of the websites where I shop for books I found this manga, but it wasn't in the three seperate volumes - they had a copy where all three volumes had been compiled together, so I had ordered that one because I had thought that this manga looked interesting enough to buy all three volumes at once.
The art is actually what makes Clamp, I realized for about a thousandth time after reading or re-reading one of their mangas, because it is still so charming, and their chibi-forms are just to die for!Overall the plot is great.
Rayearth is a phenomenal manga and deserves more attention (which it may get now that it has been reprinted in omnibus format!) The story follows Hikaru, Umi, and Fuu, three junior high students transported from Tokyo Tower to the land of Cephiro during a field trip.
There are other aspects that I enjoyed - the more "hands-on" combat as opposed to Sailor Moon, the mecha, er, Rune Gods, and the fantasy plot - but the characters themselves were refreshing at the time.As with Sailor Moon, I still find this to be a phenomenal series for girls getting into manga.
I think I just saw it at a book fair or something and gave it a try?Anyway, it's your standard epic fantasy fare.
I liked that the protagonists were three girls instead of the usual male protag and that they became good friends over the course of the story - maybe a little too quickly, but I imagine the circumstances inspire that kind of bond.It was generic in ways, but cute.
And the ending of the first Rayearth was really unexpected for me, and I liked that.
This series is cute, magical, and pretty standard Clamp fare but I unabashedly love it.
10/10 (Nostalgia Factor: 2 pts.) -- I first read this series when it was serialised in MixxZine (later Tokyopop Magazine) in the late 1990s.
I was a wee one looking for similar to Sailor Moon, and this really suited me.
Sometime before I graduated from hs in 2007, I bought the three manga editions of the first series, but haven't reread them since -- until now.In some ways, this series is more complex than Sailor Moon.
I really love their dynamic, and I can't wait to continue this read through the first series!
(I've also just bought the second series, which I somehow never read??
Magic Knight Rayearth reuses an old plot line: on a field trip, three girls from different schools are transported to a magical world called Cephiro.
The girls are rather underdeveloped at this point in time (though I've only read the first volume), and as of the end of this installment, Zagato is evil for the sake of evil and everyone else - good for the sake of good.
There's little to no character development.
Younger teens or middle school students might find this more compelling; I was a little outside of the target audience when I read it.
This is the first Manga book I have ever read - it was fun.
It is like a graphic novel.
It was a fantasy book - portal book..
three little girls get pulled into a fantasy world to save the princess and therefore that whole world.
the language is english, but I could tell that it was more culturally rooted japanese culture (mentions of Tokyo - how you read the book from the back - right to left - the asian lettering all over the pictures).
It is like watching a cartoon show.
I like it

Allgemein: Magic Knight Rayearth von Clamp ist eine 6teilige Reihe über 3 Mädchen, die in die Welt namens Cephiro gerufen werden, um diese zu retten.
Dabei steht vor allem der großartige Humor im Vordergrund, doch auch tiefgründige Gedanken über da Glück von vielen gegenüber einzelnen, über Schuld, Trauer und Liebe spielen eine RolleBand 1: Mehrere Schulklassen unternehmen einen Ausflug zum Tokyo Tower.
Dort wird ihnen offenbahrt, dass sie diese retten sollen.Clamps Humor ist großartig.
Ich liebe diese kleinen Details in den Zeichnungen, die Gesichtsausdrücke und Sprüche.
Band 1 ist definitiv der fröhlichste und humorvollste dieser Reihe, auch wenn die Heldinnen bereits anfangen müssen zu kämpfen, lernen und verstehen.
To the mortals-less-aware, these are Japanese comics with a peculiar style of art and reading.
So basically, flip the books over and start reading from the last page, which - technically, is your first page.
To add to it, a page has to be read right to left!
The new style of reading brought about a sense of wonder.
It does take a little effort to make out one image from another but this book really made it easy and 'awe'some.
And the end of this book got a little too messy to comprehend, so much so that I went back and re-read it.
3 Stars for Magic Knight Rayearth I Quick BitThis is a re-read for me and I find I don't love it as much the second time around, which is kind of unsual for me when it comes to manga I actually decide to re-read.
So basically Magic Knight Rayearth is the story of 3 girls taken magically from a field trip in Tokyo to another world called Ciphiro.
These three girls become magic knights and free the spirits to help save Ciphiro.The 1st volume is a good start basically where the world is established as well as our base for the 3 main characters.
My younger sisters are proud of me for finally reading a manga.
It's an interesting experience, reading right-to-left, something I should be doing more often because I'm Chinese but I'm illiterate in it.
As for the manga itself, it's a fun story.
The art is a little weird at times.
I don't like Princess Emeraude's eyes because they're too big and smudgy.
The other characters' eyes are fine.
Mokona is adorable.
I much prefer CLAMP's artwork in Tsubasa, though.
Dialogue is unrealistic and unnatural at times.
Still, I'm interested in reading the rest of the series.
Magic Knight Rayearth is a story of 3 young girls sucked from a field trip in Tokyo to another world called Ciphiro.
This world is almost overrun with evil and only these three girls can become magic knights and free the spirits to save this world.As a first volume in a manga this is a good start.
The world has been established and you have a pretty good idea of who each character is.
I would say all the main characters have been seen and you have a pretty decent understanding of this story world at the end.
