https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18404427-china-dolls

Lisa See's novel is the story of Helen, Ruby, and Grace, three young women living in San Francisco in 1938, who meet and become dancers at the Forbidden City, a nightclub near Chinatown.
It is easy to get wrapped up in their storylines, to cheer them on when they do good, to get frustrated when they are being naive, or to feel disdain when they do something offensive.The story ends 50 years later, when the characters gather together for a 50th Anniversary show for the Forbidden City.
I tried to give this two stars, but the more I think about it, the worse it seems, and I just don't think it deserves the second star. I'm a devoted Lisa See fan, and the premise was so intriguing, so I don't do this lightly. But I really did not like this book. When I read  Song of the Silk Road  by Mingmei Yip, I thought it was just terrible, terrible writing. Now I wonder if this is a deliberate style, because I've read Lisa See's other books and the writing was beautiful. But why would she c
Now I wonder if this is a deliberate style, because I've read Lisa See's other books and the writing was beautiful.
For a moment I thought it might be that she wasn't good at writing first-person narrators, but no, all her other books had those...
What a joke!To put it mildly—ughhh.Here's the other thing, besides the writing: I hated the main characters.
For how excited I was to read it, for how much I've loved Lisa See's other books, this experience was a major disappointment.

I'll give the author the benefit of the doubt, seeing how many others have been captivated by this story.The book traces the life of three female Chinese dancers (and a plethora of other characters) through their time together performing at night clubs, being friends, turning enemies and trying to figure it all out.
I expected to feel sad, lost, poor, angry and furious in tow with each of the leading ladies.
I felt all three characters sounded the same, with similar thought processes, contemplations and a readiness to accept anything thrown at them, reacting briefly and going back to being all lovey dovey.
- starting- freezing - and running out of juice!The VOICES in THIS book are really engaging - great company storytelling while taking a walk.Each girl had their own issues - secrets - struggles - and gifts.
Ask any female who has experience a LONG TERM - close bond with 2 very close best friends.
Juice is running out..,Luv my friends here TODAY..,anyway..
lolHAPPY THANKSGIVING!!!!( I couldn't stay away - even while on vacation - because when you are happy -- you want to share with people you care about)This book had many great 'relationship' qualities ..So .., do ALL OF US on Goodreads!Cheers.
3% juice.....
“Each friend represents a world in us, a world possibly not born until they arrive, and it is only by this meeting that a new world is born.”  ----Anaïs Nin, a French-born novelist, passionate eroticist and short story writer Lisa See, a Chinese-American NY Times Bestselling author, crafts an unique and heart-touching story, called China Dolls, about friendship beyond religion, country, war, love and hate between two Chinese girls and one Japanese girl trying to earn a living in their hometown America when the whole world is raging with war.Synopsis: It’s 1938 in San Francisco: a world’s fair is preparing to open on Treasure Island, a war is brewing overseas, and the city is alive with possibilities.
Cuando compré  Muñecas chinas  pensé que me iba a encontrar con una novela esencialmente romántica que utilizaba la amistad entre tres mujeres como pretexto, pero no:  realmente  es una novela sobre ellas.
Los acontecimientos de la novela se desarrollan entre años conflictivos pero los más importantes son los que abarcan la Segunda Guerra Mundial.
Cada uno tiene un carácter especial y están bien desarrollados, como Ruby, Helen y Eddie, y hay otros que se quedaron (para mi gusto) un poco rezagados, como Grace, el padre de Helen y Joe. Tanto los personajes femeninos como los masculinos tienen sus pros y sus contras, aunque lamentablemente no entendí por qué se les otorgó el perdón a un par de personajes que merecían desaparecer.
Hoping that each chapter might get me interested in these women's outcomes, I stopped and started this book several times.
But I never got imbedded in any outcomes and they never connected to me.
It could be the S.F. and Chinatown locale with dance as the prime aspect of work or this being in that time period of such open change possible for all USA women?
Peony I knew by the end of that book.
These women I just knew about the facades of their lives and mores of their work, and don't know the individuals at all.
This is a story of three American "Oriental" girls (as they were called at the time) who meet by chance in San Francisco in the late 1930's while trying out as nightclub dancers on the outskirts of Chinatown.
Each come from different backgrounds and the story centers around their friendship as it evolves and changes through the next ten years or so.
Calling their relationship a "friendship" seemed to be somewhat of a loose interpretation of the word, as the young women never seemed to have a close relationship and were tirelessly having petty arguments amongst themselves or constantly seemed to be in competition with one another for fame and popularity.
Pre- and post-Pearl Harbor in San Francisco, and three Oriental-American club dancers are experiencing racial prejudice  along with personal success and failures.
The prejudice felt very familiar to what Muslims and Mexicans in this country might be experiencing in America now or in the near future (if we allow a certain trumpeter who likes to blow his own horn into office).
I did like reading about their performances on the Chop Suey circuit, Chinese traditions, and the internment of Japanese-Americans.This may not be my favorite Lisa See book (that will always be Snow Flower and the Secret  Fan), but I'm going to blame that on the narration, not on the writing.
I seriously wonder how she can ever top it....Most people if asked what this book was about would automatic reply with it's about some Chinese and Japanese girls in San Francisco at the time leading up to, during and after WWII....But it's not.
Yes, perhaps there will be parts that make you mad and wonder how anyone could call someone like that a friend, but this book broke my heart.
It is, in fact, much harder to set aside our own feelings and try to understand another's.....We should all be so lucky to have people around us like this....No one ever does something without a reason.....nothing ever happens just "out of the blue".
She peoples her Chinatown settings with a mixture of fictional and historical characters (Ronald Reagan and Errol Flynn make the briefest of cameo appearances), and gives intense visual descriptions of the girls’ song-and-dance routines.However, the strategy of dividing first-person narration three ways is less than successful; I wondered if a third-person omniscient perspective might have worked better, or if See should have chosen just one girl (probably Grace) as narrator.
I also felt the novel was trying to cover too much historical ground and might have been improved by zooming in on a shorter time span.(Non-subscribers can read an excerpt of my full review at BookBrowse.)
I guess nothing will live up to Snow Flower and the Secret Fan. The premise of the novel was promising (hence why I requested it for Early Reviewers) and I love the historical time period...BUT...these girls seem to despise each other.
The early chapters are filled with rude remarks to each other (and snarky thoughts about each other); and then, to help the plotline along, since they have to be friends, the girls just think/say, "Well, we have to stick together anyway, so it is what it is" <--paraphrase, obviously.
Because these girls are so derogatory about each other, it made me unsympathetic to their plights and I did not care what happened to them.
I was very surprised Lisa See came out with this book. It is flat, plodding, and dull. I don't actually understand the story arc or ultimate point of the novel. I am a huge fan of “Snow Flower and the Secret Fan” which is beautifully written, lush, and fascinating, but “China Dolls” is not a well put-together work – hard to believe it was written by the same author! I found this book to be shallow reading based for pre-teens. The girls were shallow, giggly, and immature.
As World War II begins, three friends find themselves competing for one showgirl role at San Francisco Chinatown’s exclusive nightclub The Forbidden City. Ruby is Japanese and desperate to pass as Chinese so she won’t be sent to a Japanese internment camp, Grace has fled her abusive Mid-western family, and Helen, who grew up in Chinatown, hides her own secret. The author of Snow Flower and the Secret Fan beautifully explores the intricacies of friendship.
Interestingly, Jodi Long narration of China Dolls is an Audiofile Magazine Earphones Award Winner, an award given for "Earphones to truly exceptional presentations that excel in all the following criteria:  Narrative voice and style Vocal characterizations Appropriateness for the audio format Enhancement of the textI enjoyed the historical aspects enough to want to read Forbidden City, USA: Chinese American Nightclubs, 1936-1970.
I have already watched Arthur Dong presents "Forbidden City, U.S.A." at the San Francisco Public Library .
China Dolls tells the story of the rise of Asian entertainers on the nightclub circuit during the late 1930s through the mid 1940s, through the lives of Grace, Helen, and Ruby, three separate women who were Asian entertainers during that time.
In China Dolls, each of the three main characters represent an amalgamation of people that lived in that time in history.
In the case of China Dolls, the main nightclub in San Francisco, The Forbidden City, really existed, showcasing first Chinese entertainers, and later Asian entertainers of all kinds well into the 1950s.
despite having been a fan of Lisa See for years, I could not have been more disappointed in this book.
I never for one second believed the friendship between the three main characters, all of whom were so caught up in their own affairs and ambitions that they seemed to genuinely have no concern for or understanding of the two other girls who were supposed to be their best friends.
sorry for the critical review, but I really expected more from Lisa See. I don't mean that I wanted her to tell a different story, exactly - I just expected higher quality prose, more three-dimensional characters, and at least a semblance of emotional resonance.
Maybe if the friendship had of been between two characters rather than three it might of also gone over better...Yes, three is a crowd rings true for so many reasons.This is my first book by Lisa See, she'd been on my list of authors to read for sometime..It seems like her other books got a better wrap than this one.It was one of those books that jumps betweens narrators (the three girls - Grace, Helen and Ruby) and a few times I found myself getting confused as to who's point of view I was reading from..I think this is because I didn't feel the characters 'felt' all that different from each other besides their "dark secrets".I did enjoy the history behind the book though, getting a glimps into a time now long lost into the history books.
I love Lisa See and I learned so much about Chinese American history and culture during WWII from this book.
From that angle, I'm glad I read it.
I never really engaged with the story or the characters.
Lisa See threw every possible detail she uncovered in her research into these three women, and it often felt awkward or contrived.
I began to feel like Ruby, Grace and Helen and the other minor characters existed only to provide a historical and cultural overview of the period.
The book is well-researched.
Visually it would make a stunning movie.
In her hometown, Grace has won numerous dance contests and dreams of being a big star, so San Francisco during the World Exposition of the late 1930's seems to be a great place to go, but Grace is told there is no openings for a Chinese girl so she makes her way to Chinatown where she meets and befriends Helen and Ruby.
Together the three girls audition as dancers at The Forbidden City, an exclusive Oriental nightclub that is opening right outside of Chinatown.
Grace was my favorite but I loved Ruby and Helen as well.
Jodi was an excellent reader for this well written book, giving different voices to the three best friends, Helen, Rose and Grace.
Lisa See masterfully gives the characters life with her detailed descriptions of appearances, movements and actions along with their different points of view.
Most characters were likeable and I especially liked Helen, Grace and Rose, but didn't agree with all their choices.
This novel follows the girls lives for about fifty years - from teenagers, when they met, through friendships, fights, good times and bad, romances, wartime, raids, show biz, murder, war camps, careers, marriages, divorce and reunions.It was fun to read names like Errol Flynn, Eddie Fisher, Bob Hope and Jimmy Durante.I was surprised by the way American citizens of Japanese descent were treated in the USA during World War II.
Despite their divergent backgrounds, a mutual desire to shatter the cultural stereotypes that doom them to lives of familial subservience feeds their ambition to prosper in a world in which the definition of success changes minute by minute.
Though they’ve taken a “one for all” vow of eternal loyalty, each harbors secrets that cause a pervasive atmosphere of distrust to simmer just below the surface.
When Ruby is revealed to actually be of Japanese heritage and deported to an internment camp, their friendships and fortunes suffer a mortal blow, one that only deepens as the war rages on.
I had this on my “to read” list for awhile; so decided to start reading it. I found it slightly interesting with the Japanese/American war aspect side of it; but really could not get into the main characters and just wanted to rush through it and get it finished so I could start reading something that really captured my interest
"China Dolls" falls on the 4-star level for me, as did "Snow Flower and the Secret Fan".
It's not See's fault that her skill level is so high that even really great books like these two are only 4 stars while "Shanghai Girls", "Dreams of Joy", and "Peony In Love" are 5-ers.
If you're new to Lisa See, I'd start by reading one of the books I considered to be 5-stars that I mentioned above (maybe "Shanghai Girls"), and if you like her style and subject matter then this would be a great one for your TBR list.
We see the young girls grown in friendship, through numerous challenges, and eventually into old age.Through the course of the tale, we see historical figures and situations ...
Each girl's perspective on situations is seen, as the novel is written in first person with a different girl narrating the chapters.
Each girl has a unique voice, and I think you would be able to tell which girl is "talking" even without the chapter headings after a while.I enjoyed the book thoroughly and would recommend it to fans of See's work, lovers of historical fiction, and those interested in San Francisco's history in particular.
Historical fiction is hard for me to like.
Frequently the author is using the historical period as a setting -- not a history lesson.
Another Asian character asks her if she is like a Negro who is pretending to be white.
One of the girls is required to give her weekly pay check to her family.
Pays cash too.
Three young women in a situation where they have to wait on a city side walk for a few minutes -- allegedly --- sit on the curb.
Imagine how yucky a city street curb was in the late 30's.Small things, but ---
Lisa See's novels are always compellingly plotted and full of rich period detail, but I was less absorbed in this one than in her earlier books.
Another is the fact that the story of three nightclub performers who struggle with bigotry and relationship problems doesn't really have anywhere to go -- the big events of history that See's characters experience first-hand in her earlier books happen mostly offstage in this one, leaving us with a soap opera about three women who, even though they consider each other "sister-friends," simply refuse to let one another in on some pretty major secrets.
This book was rather interesting.
During World War 2.
Before America was dragged into the war by Japan's attack.
Helen is rather bitter and full of sayings I wish I knew the actual Chinese for.
It's interesting how they relate to each other.
The friction between them.Only thing is I wish that there had be lesbians in this book because dang it, books are lacking in lesbians.
I'm going to have to write more books like that.
There's a gay dude in the book, but still.
It's not like he gets a nice sweet boyfriend though.
