https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/586516.Hammer_of_the_Gods
Ah-a-aaaahhhhHAAAA!!! Ah-a-aaaahhhhHAAAAAA!!!It's been a long time since I read this bookIt's been a long time, but let's have a lookWhat a whole lotta love Davis has for Zeppelin!What a whole lotta love!Here's a fanboy who's sure all that glitters is goldAnd he's written the band into heavenAnd if you said you were a Led-headOh what fun this book would beMe, I'm gonna ramble onI'm gonna find a new read to quench my greedRamble on!
this was really a crappy book; i give it two stars because of the interesting but lifeless information it gave me.
facts.
they fucked some girl with a shark they caught fishing out the hotel window.
i don't even think the guy who wrote the book ever even talked to them.
this happened, then this, then we went here, there were girls, we fucked them with fishes, etc.and john bonham was a DICK.
true fact.
he's gone, suddenly there's no shared sense of purpose and everyone wanders off to do heroin and make shitty albums with david coverdale.
I'd only been a casual fan of Led Zeppelin (collected all their cds but preferred my 70's hard rock a bit more Purple or Black), so I had not previously heard of either of these guys.
In fact, it's his vision that helped allow Zeppelin to craft such superior-quality music.But you'll find out too many disappointing things about Jimmy as you read the book to its end.Robert Plant comes across as a pretty nice guy.
It's all due to Jimmy Page, his previous experience, and his uncanny musical vision of the new supergroup Led Zeppelin.

Great band. Actually THE greatest ever, in my opinion. Not a great book. I've read it twice. Just not written very well. I'd like to find a better bio on Zeppelin and read it, if I could actually part from romance/erotica long enough!
started: 5/26/08finished: 5/29/08First of all, no rock and roll book could possibly be any more shocking then Motley Crue's The Dirt.
A classic book about a classic band.
:P I really enjoyed it, I always wanted to know what was coming next and I just about cried when it reached 1980 and it was time to say goodbye to Bonzo.
Maybe because I love the band so I'm emotionally attached anyway.
I loved getting to know Jimmy and Robert and co.
Highly recommended for Zep fans and rock and roll fans in general.
A must read!Also, I'd like to note, that I read this book exactly forty years after the inception of the band: 1968-2008.
Sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll. These guys invented it. Yeah, baby.
For every unrelenting Godzilla-stomp, guitar ramalama, hobbit-squashing funk riff Jimmy Page came up with (“Misty Mountain Hop,” Black Dog,” or “Trampled Underfoot,” anyone?), there was a Christ-my-hair-just-turned-white slogfest like “No Quarter,” “Since I’ve Been Loving You,” or “The Rain Song” waiting just around the corner to darken your doorway like a Biblical curse.Based on the show I caught at Olympia Stadium in Detroit when the band touched down on their “Houses of the Holy” tour in 1973, they weren’t much to write home about live either.
He rated the book "excellent", so I've gone ahead and given it three stars --that's a nice balance between his five-star rating and my zero-star rating.Because it is highly entertaining, here is my husband's book report, verbatim and [sic]:Hammer of the Gods, the Led Zeppelin Saga.
The group started in 1968 when they recorded their first album called "Led Zeppelin." It only cost 1,750 pounds to produce, but grossed over $7 million by 1975.
Their second Album named "Led Zeppelin II" was recorded the following year.
Led Zeppelin had split up for a little less than two years and Roberts son, Karac Plant had died from a respirritory disease.
I realize Davis was writing about four people and could not cover them all as profoundly as he could have, but despite the actual writing, I think in 1985 he was lacking both the historical perspective and the maturity to be able to give Zeppelin its full due.Despite the selling one's soul to the devil bit, which is merely a catchy framing device, he starts out well, chronicling Jimmy Page's early musical growth and subsequent session work, understanding that it was a laboratory for his development and his output with the Yardbirds.
Everyone has heard of the fish incident, but the things that you hear about that are somehow glossed over in music history are how Jimmy Page dated a 15 year old, how Bonzo would order 20 drinks at a time(crush TEN of them immediately and tear though the other ten in the next hour), how Jonsey was the true creative force in the band, how they lived double lives between England and LA.
I see now that that 20 minutes what Bonzo was banging away on drums was probibaly the only time the rest of the band could have a beer together in peace.
Probably not very true, but still totally awesome.
The author has updated the book since its original publication to include extra chapters detailing the post-Zeppelin days, up to and including their 2007 reunion concert; however, most of this material is boring and unnecessary (it mainly focuses on Robert Plant's solo career because Page was too strung out on heroin and John Paul Jones was too much of a recluse for either of them to have done anything interesting) and I found myself speed reading the rest of it till I hit the finish line.
Besides the boring new material (Part 3: Hammer of Robert Plant) the rock biography lives up to all its hype and made for a very entertaining travel read (I read it in Japan).
The book is a great read for anyone who likes rock and roll mythology as these guys lived the Myth to the full and saw the down side as well as the ups as John Bonham's and Karac Plants death's certainly showed the downside as did the death threats and riots at gigs.
In fact, it is even a bit boring, going into excruciatingly tedious details about obscure musicians who worked with LZ for a project or another.The biggest source of scandal was the notorious behaviour of Led Zeppelin while touring the States.
However, throwing TVs from a balcony is criminally dangerous, more than eccentric behaviour.As far as sex is concerned, I am sure it is not a secret that Led Zeppelin was the apple of groupies `eyes.
. Sounds like the moments when he was nice were rare...
or at least, rare enough to disqualify him as a "nice person".Would not recommend, unless you are a die-hard Led Zeppelin fan.
Zep is one of my favorite bands, but in all honesty, I just started reading this because I needed something to do while I waited for NK Jemisin's Stone Sky to come out.--This book feels like it was written by multiple people, like a college class had an assignment where each student wrote a chapter, then they just threw them together into a book.
Sheesh.Bonus: learning how much music LZ outright stole from other musicians, like Whole Lotta Love (Willie Dixon) and Dazed and Confused (Jake Holmes).
(Seriously: check out Whole Lotta Love, recorded by Muddy Waters.) ("The Above Ground Sound of Jake Holmes" is ...
Initially wanting to read more about the music and lyrics Led Zeppelin is noted for, Stephen Davis offers a more complete appraisal of arguably one of the commercially successful and influential rock bands in history.Apart from the anecdotes about the early formations of the band and each members' musical journeys, I found Davis' discussion of the musical roots of the band most fascinating.
Well researched and informative, Hammer of the Gods is a must read for Zeppelin fans and those interested in music history.
My favorite parts: tyring to picture Jimmy Page working his 'black magic'; Page and Plant's admiration for Joni Mitchell; realizing that Bonham was much a bully and a 'beast' as he was an unbelievable drummer; John Paul Jones passed out with a drag queen in New Orleans; his less-known inclination to subvert others.Despite enjoying the read and learning more about them, I still think of Robert Plant sounds like a blues muppet most of the time.'Hammer of the Gods' may be a good place to start before moving on to a denser book on the band.
- Read Sept 14th 07
Despite claims by many people,this book did make clear that Zepplin is far from approaching any type of godhood status.
Their antics fell more into a general malaise of just plain dumb, low class human debauchery that is related to people acting out that can't handle excess.
I found many interesting contrasts between band's and people's perceptions of Led Zepplin and what they actually were in real life.
However there is enough information that readers can read in between lines and make their own connections and judgements to the material and what they believe it means or says.
The book I have is from 1985, but I won't bother adding it to the database since it's just a mass-market paperback with the same cover shown here.OH MY GAWD, I read this book literally to PIECES in high school!!!!
And I have carried it around with me all these years b/c it was just such an obsession for me then, along with my first soulmate, Laura Puffer.
(In fact, it was "Led Zepplin #1" written on my shoe that first brought her to my desk in our 10th grade study hall!) I even made notes of all the band member's biographical information and listed their birthdays on my freaking calendar!
(I STILL remember Jimmy Page's: January 9, 1944!) :)
An absolute must read if you're a Led Zeppelin fan, and yes this was written for their fans--not the general public!
This is the greatest band that has ever walked on this earth and that's a fact, not an opinion--just like McDonald's has the best fries.
Again, a common-knowledge fact.
When you read this you get a real gritty feel for the ins and outs of the rock industry and how these guys absolutely obliterated it, creating the new hard rock era we see today.
Great (anything) don't do it the way everyone else does.
They re-shape the world into the way they want it!
That's what Led Zeppelin did!
I enjoyed reading about how songs came together, bandmember roots/influences and how the band and it's management shaped music industry standards in regards to touring and promotion.
But I really didn't enjoy reading about all the drugs and groupies; it's not that I was uaware of it before, I just didn't care about reading about it...it's just a sad reality of fame, fortune and being adored by millions and nothing to brag about in my book.
Regardless, the music Led Zeppelin put out into the world is the best legacy and I will continue to enjoy it.
FUCK YEAH LED ZEPPELIN! Обожавам биографии и още повече биографии на любими банди. Тази е 6-та, която чета след тези на Metallica, Iron Maiden, Slayer, Дейв Мъстейн от Megadeth, както и биография на самия Джими Пейдж, която прочетох по-рано тази година. Страхотни книги са не тези, които представят групите в целия им блясък, а тези, които представят и най-големите им падения. Защото няма спор, че Led Zeppelin са били далеч от светци. И може да са били мразени, но музиката им и цялостният им образ са променили музиката завинаги. Valhalla, I am coming \m/
Chi se ne frega degli scandali, dei manager, dei compensi, sorvoliamo sui testi spesso composti di pura fuffa hippie; ma l'energia, la musica, il modo di cantare di Plant, le invenzioni musicali di Page, e come suonavano insieme... L'unico gruppo le cui incisioni in studio palpitano di vita come se fossero prese in concerto. Concerti le cui riprese video ancora oggi sbalordiscono.Nota di demerito per Arcana che ha infarcito il testo italiano di refusi irritantissimi, dalle iniziali minuscole, alle parole attaccate tra loro.
This is the first of the "tell all" books on the greatest rock band ever. Stephen Davis uses most of the hangers on as well as their road manager, Richard Cole, to recreate the feel of Zeppelin in the 70's. There are more technical as well as fan driven books on Zeppelin. However, for your average Zeppelin fan, this is a good entry level book.
VILE. Poorly written tales of assault, debauchery and excess to the extreme. Was not a fan of the band prior, but had heard this was a "good read" and I anticipated Spinal Tap-esque tales of tomfoolery- but this is an awful chronicle.
This book was the beginning of my insane passion for musicians' biographies... shame on you, Stephen Davis! :DAnyway, what can I say? Great book: I remember I laughed a lot and I was able to understand a little more one of the greatest rock bands ever.
Believe it or not, I have NEVER read this book, but want to.
I think this book may have been written by a drug addled child. will someone please write a decent book about Zeppelin?
A true Led Zeppelin must read this.
