https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18630.The_Player_of_Games
much like Banks, I am on the side of the AIs.UGLY OLD REVIEW, 1st read in 2010:(view spoiler)[an often brilliant allegory.
well, Player of Games was actually my own first Culture novel, and it worked out fine for me in the long run.
choose whichever Culture novel you want to start off with.the challenge that i had with Player was its feeling of sparseness, when compared to the often over-stuffed feeling i get with more traditional space operas...and that nearly too-rich feeling is exactly what i'm usually looking for.
but it also did not exactly inspire me to keep reading Culture novels.
Tis Official...Iain Banks can write his flesh cushion off. Okay, so for many of you that is not exactly breaking-news scrolling across the ticker, but I still thought it was worth repeating. I had previously read and loved The Wasp Factory, Banks' classic first novel which was a fascinating glimpse into the psychology of a very disturbed young man in serious need of a hug. I also really enjoyed Consider Phlebas, which is the first of the Culture novels. With Banks having two big wins under his b
Through his numerous bio-enhancements (another perk of the Culture), he has mastered 1000s and 1000s of games and can absorb and master new ones incredibly fast.
Well SC wants Gurgeh to employ his talents to learn a new game.
This game is central to the entire structure of the Empire's society and is so incredibly complex and nuanced that it takes a lifetime to be able to play.
However, SC hopes that Gurgeh’s special aptitude will allow him to learn the game in just over two years (the travel time to the Empire).
**I've recently finished this novel again, and will be heavily rewriting this review in the near future, what follows is my review from 2015**The first Culture novel, Consider Phlebas, did a lot of world-building heavy lifting from a Culture antagonistic POV.
Having read that previously, this one is allowed to come in and really flesh out the world from a pro-Culture POV, which was really fun.
I do think there is at least a little truth to it though, but for it to function in practice we may need access to those pesky 'unlimited resources' that the Culture has.Bottom line, you should read this book.

So basically because you are still going to need to do something with your existence, the human citizens of the Culture devote themselves to creative pursuits like art or repeatedly undergoing sex changes or, like Gurgeh, playing games.Gurgeh is, in fact, the best Player of Games in the entire Culture.
The idea of a post-scarcity society is really interesting to me, and Banks has fashioned a good one, with a lot of fun examples of the ways humanity (so to speak) has dealt with its status as a largely extraneous life form in the grand scheme of galaxy-spanning sentient worldships.
Still, I love Consider Phlebas so much Use of Weapons could not completely eradicate the goodwill I still have for Mr. Banks and the Culture series.
The story simply revolves around a single protagonist Jernau Gurgeh, possibly The Culture's greatest games players.
Gurgeh is approached by the "Special Circumstances", the Culture's secret service / black ops type organisation to take part in an "Azad" game tournament at The Azad Empire, a rival civilization just a few light years away.
As to why the Special Circumstances want Gurgeh to take part in this tournament you will have to find out for yourself by reading the book.
It only gets better because it's set in the Culture, the ultimate let's-all-get-along mega-spanning galactic anti-empire filled with all types of aliens and machine minds living with (pretty much) no coercion, unless, of course, a bit of finesse is "Really" required.And that's where we come into the story, and we get to play and be a piece on the board at the same time, feeling all the ups and downs, the close-calls, the frustration, the elation and the triumph.
A very different novel from the first Culture novel and a much more direct plot-line with just as much of a great touch when it comes to the ebb and flow of the story.
If I had to pick a favorite of Iain Banks...well, I haven't read them all yet, and anyway I couldn't pick, because each one I read becomes a favorite for a different reason. This one is a fascinating study of a complex character, set in an insanely well-drawn world. If you're a gamer you will definitely appreciate this book on another level, so pick it up!
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Gaming All-Nighters: "The Player of Games" by Iain M.
Physics at its most fundamental, the very fabric of our universe, results directly from the interaction of certain fairly simple rules, and chance; the same description may be applied to the best, most elegant and both intellectually and aesthetically satisfying games.
They are also, I might add, invariably pre-machine-sentience societies.”  In “The Player of Games” by Iain M.
It’s better than love, it’s better than sex or any glanding; it’s the only instant when I feel… real.”  In “The Player of Games” by Iain M.
Use of Weapons was far superior, in plot and characterization. Player of Games offered no surprises especially if you have read other Culture novels. The plot twist is reminiscent of Ender's Game, and is alluded to in the very first sentence. The central game is never described, and therefore too vague of a concept to care about. Any exposition about the human condition, racism, and sexism were poorly entwined into the book, and did not fit naturally into the plot.
This is the second Culture book I've read. The first was Excession, which was decidedly not the book to start with. I couldn't make heads nor tails of it. Of course, the second one I ended up picking up wasn't the first book in the series either, but at least it was the second. And much more accessible. Whew!Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Banks' Culture series and while Consider Phlebas kicked off Banks' famous universe it is The Player of Games that marks its entry into the illustrious ranks of the all-time greatest science fiction scenarios.This is a novel of riotous and fascinating imagination.Protagonist Jernau Gurgeh is a citizen of the post-scarcity, AI/human civilisation known as The Culture.
SC has taken an interest in Gurgeh and by taking advantage of his obsession with winning they are able to blackmail him into agreeing to complete a job for them.Gurgeh is pressed into travelling to a faraway empire, a society somewhat less utopian than The Culture that uses a series of games - where the stakes can be life and death - to determine who will be their next leader.
I don't think I can recommend this highly enough.
It isn't necessary to have read Consider Phlebas which is the first book in the Culture series.
Banks but it resonated deeply in me.The game theory aspect was fascinating.
(This next bit is a spoiler since it only comes out near the end, but I don't think it ruins any part of the story at all.
I'm marking it anyway for those who are completely spoiler averse.) (view spoiler)[I also particularly liked the way language was demonstrated to impact the way you think and feel.
In the Culture, all basic human needs are taken care of through technology, there is no war or crime, and its peoples are free to party, pursue the arts, take up useless hobbies, or apply themselves to building the next artificial world.
Gurgeh hears of a secret distant empire, Azad, which is effectively founded on a game used to winnow out who succeeds in their society, and a Contact agent drone easily persuades him to travel a couple of years to join their tournament in what he is told is an ambassadorial initiative.
How can an idealistic, egalitarian society like Culture deal with such a throwback to dog-eat-dog life without playing their own game of forceful domination?
[I am removing my reviews as I do not want to support Amazon.]You are playing a game. In adjournment you are offered a cast iron safe opportunity to cheat. It won’t affect the outcome of the game, you are going to win anyway. But it may change how you win. So what do you do?For the rest, here:http://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpres...
The Azadian society is centered around an incredibly complex game called Azad, and every six years it holds a tournament that begins with 12,000 players, with the winner becoming the Emperor.
So you can definitely sense when a culture is feeling threatened by foreigners intruding on its national sport, even if it doesn’t want to admit it.The Player of Games reaches its climax when Gurgeh reaches the final round of the game to face off directly with the reigning Emperor, who by definition is their greatest player.
The First Mate suggested the Culture “series” in which every book is set in the same universe but all can be read as standalones and in any order.
So eventually I bought this book which was Bank’s second written Culture Novel and the First Mate’s favorite.I loved this book and the world Banks has set up so very much.
The Culture world has a “humanoid/machine symbiotic society.” Yet Azad is more primitive.
Needless to say I recommend the two culture novels I have read so far and I certainly shall be reading more in the series.Apparently there are 10 books in total.
Like a lot of science fiction, he's at the low point in the middle: his characters are alien enough that they're not allow to talk in the terms used by Banks' own (20th century western) culture, but Banks can't bring himself to create a different set of terms, as that would risk Clute-style incomprehensibility.
There are machine intelligences in Banks' world, but they do not differ in any interesting way from people, and the imperialist aliens encountered by the book's protagonist -- despite having three sexes and basing their entire society around an elaborate board game -- ultimately seem indistinguishable from a generic earth empire.
Everything is wonderful and and safe and people self-actualize and it is all rather boring, which is why these stories take place on the fringe of Culture or in alien societies.
This is the story of a man who went far away for a long time, just to play a game.
As a huge fan of "sci-fi as an exploration of alternative social orders" I greatly enjoyed how Banks built up this very alien society and culture around a (albeit very complex) game as well as following the logical consequences of such an arrangement.
Banks's exploration of this culture and its peoples was a very effective driver of the story.
And if it seems to us readers that despite being spare on the SF aspect, this novel is tasteful, it is because Banks prepared this dish with the right amount of ingredients.The book follows a game player, Chiark-Gevantsa Jernau Morat Gurgeh dam Hassease (let’s just call him Jernau Gurgeh from now on) who is bored by his perfect life in the utopian Culture universe.
Even Banks realized that, so our game player is sent to contest in a game called ‘Azad’ in an imperialist world outside the Culture universe.Hence begins an allegory which compares the two polarizing ideologies – imperialism and anarchist-socialism – with coherent arguments.
Banks is on display in The Player of Games that it could be my favourite of his novels (if not for Use of Weapons or The Wasp Factory or Canal Dreams or Inversions and who knows how many of the ones I haven't read yet?).
It didn't matter that I knew the outcome of Jernau Morat Gurgeh's great Azad tournament, that I knew the deal with the drone, Mawhrin-Skel, that I knew the ending was going to leave me a little flat.
This time I was able to recognize Gurgeh's warning to the reader that the ending of a great game -- of Azad and The Player of Games -- must be anti-climactic.
Officially hooked on the Culture series. Can't wait to keep going with the rest.
This is the second Culture novel I've read, after Consider Phlebas.
Many people have also been harsh in their criticism of Consider Phlebas, stating that The Player Of Games is by far the better of the two.
As far as the series is concerned, the Culture books are rather more interesting than a lot of other Space Operas out there.
Also, this novel is for 'adults only'.It seems the Culture books are stand-alone, so there is no need to read Consider Phlebas before this.
If you're into intelligent space opera and some very big ideas, read this (and the other Culture novels).
Whoever succeeds at the game succeeds in life...the set-up assumes that the game and life are the same thing, and such is the pervasive nature of the idea of the game within the society that just by believing it, they make it so."SC wants to recruit the Culture's most brilliant gameplayer to act as their representative to the empire, and unfortunately for Gurgeh, a moment of reckless stupidity leaves him with a forced hand.
It creates a zero-sum society, for in a world where everything is part of the game, there is no place for mercy.Azad creates a world in which victory, ownership, and dominance are everything; to a member of the egalitarian Culture, every aspect of Azadian life looks like slavery.
I really enjoyed Consider Phelbas earlier this year and I liked The Player of Games even more.Jernau Morat Gurgeh (Gurgeh to most people) is well known in The Culture for his game playing abilities—there isn’t a game of strategy that he doesn’t excel at and he’s spent his life either playing the games or writing about them (and other game players).
That’s one of the things that’s so fascinating about The Culture—people have unlimited time for anything that catches their fancy.The interesting thing about the beginning of the book is that Gurgeh has started to share my boredom with the game playing scene.
But is the famous game player being played?A teensy bit predictable, but a very enjoyable journey to get to that ending.
The first part deals with an introduction to the Culture and the main character who is fairly unlikable to start with.
The second section is an introduction to the the thoroughly vile Empire of Azad that the main character has been recruited to visit by the Culture.
This section and the next, dealing with the final stages of game tournament and the political intrigue surrounding it are a 180 degree turnaround in the book and make the whole thing worth reading.Like most of Banks work, I found it quite dry, but the interjections of humor or powerful emotion are all the more prominent because of this.
Not only was 'The Player of Games' my first taste of Iain M Bank's Culture, it was also the first adult science fiction story that I ever read.
The opening sections introduce us to the highly relatable character of Gurgeh and detail his dissatisfaction with his current life and eventual reasoning for travelling to the Empire of Azad.
As Gurgeh progresses through the games, his life is threatened and the reader is left enthralled to see what will happen to him next.The novel is gripping and unpredictable.
While definitely science fiction, I found it a very easy read and so I think could be readily enjoyed by people who normally steer clear of this genre.
Best sci fi I've read so far. I don't read sci fi a lot so I'm not exactly an expert. A big reason why is the emphasis on technology/aliens rather than story. That's not the case with this book and this series. I'll definitely be reading the whole series. Great characters, original premise, simply written with some good twists.
The second book set in Banks' Culture universe is a stand-along story which many readers believe to be the most accessible entry point to the series. Banks builds a thought-provoking setting and populates it with interesting ideas, but the plot drags horribly in the early going and some of the twists near the end are obvious. Also creates perhaps a new high water mark in the "annoying droid" set.
Thestory isn't so bad, but it could be a lot better if it was told from some other, more interesting point of view.I also thought the plot was hurt by a couple very poorly motivateddecisions by the Player, especially his decision early on to cheat ina game.
We don't know much about what goes on inside the head of the Player, and so it seems like an arbitrary decision.
Presumably.Bank's notion of games is pretty dull: he doesn't seem to considera game as anything beyond a mixture of chess-like board games andcards.
