https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8553.High_Stakes
I would argue that this is one of the best books in the Dick Francis catalog.
The protagonist, Steven Scott, is somewhat unusual for a Dick Francis novel in that he is a relatively wealthy man who made a fortune designing a very popular line of children's toys.
But after some time has passed, Scott realizes that Leeds has been defrauding him in a fairly significant way.
The fraud is clever enought that Scott can't actually prove the offense but he confronts Leeds and informs him that he is removing his horses from Leeds and taking them to another trainer.
Again, one of the best of the novels from Dick Francis.
As I think about all of his books (yes, this review covers all of his books, and yes I've read them all) I think about a moral ethical hero, steeped in intelligence and goodness embroiled in evil machinations within British horse racing society - either directly or indirectly.
The heroes aren't always horse jockies, they can be film producers, or involve heroes engaged in peripheral professions that somehow always touch the horse racing world.But more than that, Francis's heroes are rational human beings.
The hero's thoughts reveal a vulnerability that is touching, while his actions are always based on doing the right thing to achieve justice.
I also enjoyed the romantic angle in Steven life, one that is integral to the story rather than a cookie cutter sideline.The conclusion is a bit too predictable and too much (view spoiler)[ the signature attempt by the bad guy to solve his problems by dealing in physical violence against the hero  (hide spoiler)].Dick Francis is not really such a quotable author, but I picked one of my favorite passages in this book, highlighting his passion for horses and racing that permeates every one of his novels: We watched him from the balcony of the private box with hearts thumping like jungle drums.
I haven't read a Dick Francis book in years. I guess I thought of them as Enid Blyton books for grown-ups (with lashings of horse poop), but I was pleasantly surprised how much I enjoyed this book. A good old-fashioned horseracing mystery. No real surprises with the plot - but just a good captivating, easy-to-follow, and enjoyable mystery. I am definitely considering seeking out more Dick Francis books in the future. A pleasant re-discovery!
I thought the book dragged a bit at the beginning, but the last third was quite exciting & I couldn't put it down.
I liked the main character & the rest were well done.
The romantic thread was a nice touch, not over done.
Still, he managed to add yet another.I was quite surprised by one bit of information (view spoiler)[I hadn't realized that tattoos weren't required on all racing horses in the US & UK for ages, certainly before this book was written by decades.
(hide spoiler)] I'll keep my faith that an ex-jockey like Francis knows more than I do, though.
It was nice to catch up with another.
Another well done novel by Francis, whom I adore. This audiobook was narrated very well by Geoffrey Howard.

Not the absolute best of the Dick Francis novels, but rattles along at a fair pace
This one, Steven Scott, is successful and mostly happy with no previous tragedies to cloud his life.
He does, however, lead a mostly solitary life -- and, at the beginning of the book, his trainer's dishonesty deals a serious blow to Steven's trust in his fellow man.
This book follows Steven as he makes sure that the bad guys get what's coming to them, but also shows him developing his own circle of friends and coming out of his isolation.
I wish there had been a second Steven Scott book, because I'd like to know what he and his buddies got up to next!
Oh Dick Francis, how I miss you.
I'm sure I must have read this book eons ago, but I read and re read Dick Francis books with relish.
Steven Scott is a brilliant toy inventor, however, not so brilliant when it comes to horse racing.
When Scott tumbles his game, he pulls his horses out, only to be ostracized by the racing community, who sides with the evil trainer.
However, Scott is not as dumb as they all think he is, with a little help from his friends he is able to turn the tables on the crooks.
A very good Dick Francis novel. I love to see the thought put in to resolving the issue of getting back the proper race horse. I love the deft way that Francis handles the relationship in this story between Steve and Allie. A perfect Francis and a favorite reread for me.
This one was told from the point of view of a fairly well off inventor, Steven Scott, who owns a string of racing horses.
Nevertheless, Steven decides to take his horses away from Jody's stable which stuns Jody as he believes he will be ruined.
Stevens efforts to get his horse back and prove that Jody has been fleecing him without leaving him open for a libel charge make fascinating reading.
I can't give away too much but will only say that this is very thrilling reading!
Simply solid.Much like buying your favourite soft drink brings few surprises a Dick Francis novel offers little deviation from his tried and trusted template.A strong – morally and emotionally – hero, who is being wronged by a villain who is either violently vicious or in chaoots with someone who is, form the basis of all good Francis novels.
Our hero is moralistic but nonetheless quite engaging.It's a fun read and nothing more.
And there's nothing wrong with that.
This is the first time I've listened to a Dick Francis book. I liked it but I think I like reading them better. There's just something about hearing the voices of the characters in my mind that works better with some books.
The usual Dick Francis fare and quality. Not particularly noteworthy in either direction; just good.
A wonderful storyteller.
In this excellent Dick Francis novel, Steven Scott is a very successful businessman, who discovers that his friend, Jody Leeds, the trainer of his horses has been stealing from him, and its not a small amount.
However, Leeds conspires to steal Energise, Scott's latest horse, and when Scott goes to get the horse back, he discovers that Leeds plot is even more complicated, as the horse that is returned is not Energise, but looks like him.Enlisting the help of a business man, a lovely girl that he meets and courts during the novel, and another bookie, Scott decides to get Energise back.
High Stakes begins with Steven, owner of 12 racehorses, abruptly pulling his horses from the training of his long time trainer.
He has found that he has been cheating on the billing, and even worse, been defrauding Steven by collusion with a bookmaker.
The parallel is drawn between a specific toy and how one person can manipulate a group of others.The challenge in the story is for Steven to be able to catch the trainer and bookmaker in their theivery without being sued for lible and to be able to clear his current bad reputation of a rich owner who has left his perfectly wonderful trainer over some mistakes in billing!
Finalist 1975 Gold Dagger Award.Racing related thrillers - Steven Scott is relatively new to horses. A successful, wealthy inventor, he takes up horse racing as a hobby--a hobby that soon brings him winner after winner under the inspired guidance of his trainer, Jody Leeds. Currently both their reputations are wrapped up in a beautiful black hurdler named Energise. But just when Steven is winning at both women and horses, he discovers deceit in his own stables. Termination of the troublemaker marks Steven for his own termination--and much sooner than he can imagine.
HIGH STAKES - ExFrancis, Dick - 14th bookSteven Scott, inventor of Rola toys, owns horses but does not know much about them. He sacks his trainer because he suspects underhand dealings going on. He is soon to find out that moneymaking drives some people to manoeuvering and they will go a long way to protect themselves.This is another of my favorites. Wonderfully plotted. Don't mess with a toy maker.
I re-read this book while trying to find out how to get an overdrive media audiobook downloaded onto my Zune from a public library. Although I have read it twice before, Dick Francis never seems to pall. On the other hand, I know lots of people who think if you've read one Dick Francis, you've read them all. All I can say is, if it ain't busted, don't fix it. It helps that I love horses. There are always horses in every Dick Francis book, which immediately makes each book lovable.
Another fun read from Dick Francis. About a horse owner rather than a jockey or trainer, who goes up against a cheating a vengeful trainer and bookie. Liked all the characters a lot. Really enjoyed the intricate plans for how to get the stolen horse back...kind of reminded me, in a small way, of "Oceans 11"...but with horses and stables rather than money and casinos. :)
It has been more than a dozen years since I've read a Dick Francis and I had forgotten how much I enjoyed his books. We listened to this book on owe trip west and thoroughly enjoyed it. The protagonist is a wonderfully crafted character and someone who I would enjoy knowing (always important for me). The story line is fun, creative and rewarding to the last word.
Steven Scott is a wealthy, novice horse owner. He has had some success, but then determines that his trainer has been cheating him. When he fires him, it gets ugly and the horse racing community sides with the trainer - the underdog - rather than the rich owner. Things get more tense as the trainer continues to try to cheat Scott and Scott fights back. Decent, quick read. Nothing fabulous.
Another interesting mystery that takes place in part at the track (and trainers' farms). This one revolves around an owner who made his money inventing toys - not the kinds of characters I've run into in previous Francis books. Engaging.
I had forgotten how much I enjoy a Dick Francis novel. He creates very engaging characters and weaves a good story.
This is an earlier Dick Francis book. It is a little slow out the gate, but the ending is pretty good.
Rookgordijn - Gelezen jan. 1997
Wealthy toy maker takes revenge on trainer who stole his race horse
Excellent. This is only my second Dick Francis book but won't be my last. Extremely well written with well developed characters. Great narrator
