https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101191.What_Makes_Sammy_Run_
In the course of finding out what makes Sammy run (an operation in which the reader is spared none of the grue-some details) Schulberg has poured out everything he has felt about that place.
The result is a book which the publishers not only believe to be the most honest ever written about Hollywood, but a penetrating study of one kind of twentieth-century success that is peculiar to no single race of people or walk of life.My Review: Budd Schulberg got a lot of grief for writing this "anti-Semitic" shriek of outrage at the backstabbing, grasping, greedy, hollow culture of Hollywood.
When "Sammy" was selected for my book club read, I wondered (aloud) why we should be reading an old book that could not possibly be relevant today.
the story, the quest, the always fragile success ...
are totally relevant to life in America today.
Who do we know who, like Sammy Glick, is so completely absorbed in himself, who lies constantly and without remorse, and who destroys everyone and every good thing he touches?
Who do we know who is never happy, and never will be?I could go on, but you get the point.
It's the same story.
He stabs his "patron," Al, to get a newspaper column of his own, and when a young writer comes to him with a story idea, Sammy calls up a big-name Hollywood agent, having no idea just how ridiculous the thing he is doing is, and soon is saying goodbye to the Big Apple and hello to Hollywood, leaving behind his friends, his family, his cast off fiancee, and the guy who wrote the story he's now launching his career with.Al manages to get snagged into the Hollywood writing gig himself a little later, and soon he's also making more money than he ever did as a reporter, but watching Sammy outstrip everyone.
well, who wants to be a mere writer, at the bottom of the Hollywood totem pole, when the big money and power comes from being a supervisor, a producer, a studio head...Sammy keeps running, and Al is there to witness it.
a book about an asshole, narrated by a dickhead.
Sammy's stab you in the back to ahead mentality represents America, and this book makes for an interesting Hollywood story that is relatable in every aspect of modern day business.
You may even have a Sammy Glick in your life, which is scary to say the very least.The story centers on the aforementioned Glick, and it's told from the perspective of somebody Glick walks over to get ahead, which paints an interesting story unlike the naive narrator from The Great Gatsby.
That said, the book is enjoyable and has well thought out characters and excellent pacing.

He knows whereof he speaks. It's remarkable that he had the perspective to write this book as a young man, having grown up at the center of power in Hollywood. A smart and empathetic assessment of the state of the business he was steeped in from birth. Movies aren't the center of the culture, as they were then, before television, much less the web. If the Sammy Glicks of the world are now hustling Apps, only the details have changed.
Plans to film “What Makes Sammy Run?” have been bandied around for decades, but the movie has already been made more or less via another Budd Schulberg story, “A Face In The Crowd”, i.e. boy-meets-girl as casualties of an arrogant, greedy media climbing monster. Anyone who has enjoyed films like “The Player”, “The Bad And The Beautiful” or “Barton Fink” will have a great time reading this, and Schulberg never runs out of great dialogue.
"A grand book, utterly fearless and with a great deal of beauty side by side with the most bitter satire." Right on, F. Scott Fitzgerald.
Over the following years, Manheim (and the reader) witness Sammy Glick lying, double-crossing, and steamrolling over almost everyone who comes his way in order to reach the top of the Hollywood food chain.
The title comes from Al Manhein’s constant questioning of “what makes Sammy run?” As we learn more about Sammy’s life, we gradually learn what he was running away from all those years, and the result is perhaps more universal than we’d like to acknowledge.
Good stuff. Great perennial American character, like Gatsby.A good example, though, of what Pritchett said about psychology being reduced to motivation in contemporary literature. The narrator is obsessed with finding out, well, what makes Sammy run--and run over so many people as he does so. I admire Schulberg if for no other reason than his old-fashioned attitude that there is more to write about than one's own ethnic group. Waterfront (the novel) could have been written by an Irish-Catholic from Hoboken, e.g. And Sammy would be a great creation if he were Hindu or Zoroastrian.
Tight, succinct writing. Schulberg is a master storyteller who doesn't waste a word. He knows how to stick to a theme. This moral cautionary tale about a Hollywood writer consumed by his ambition should be a textbook for good writing.
I know this guy.
really bad move.Since when did a outsized ego and lack of talent stand in the way of success!
During the time I was reading, I heard a podcast in which Tina Brown complained that HC’s being a woman got in the way of her being evaluated for who she really was.
well, read What Makes Sammy Run. What I appreciate most about this particular approach to this character study is the relationship between author Bud Schulberg and his anti-hero protagonist.
And his first-person narrator sure as heck tries to be just that — in fact Manheim’s contempt for Sammy is over the top and frequently (almost monotonously) stated.
It was funny as time went on how the more I learned about one the more I understood about the other.""Most of us are ready to greet our worst enemies like long-lost brothers if we think they can show us a good time, if we think they can do us any good or if we even reach the conclusion that being polite will get us just as far and help us live longer.""The theater entrance was full of excitement that came mostly from women who were attracted to the leading man, and men resentful or regretful that they would never go to bed with anybody like the star, and unimportant people who idealized their envy into admiration and kids who wanted to have more autographs than anybody else in the world.""It struck me that Julian and Sammy must have been just about the same age, twenty-two or -three, probably brought up in the same kind of Jewish family, same neighborhood, same schooling, and started out with practically the same job.
3.5
(Click here to see what others have read.) https://pastoffences.wordpress.com/20...We observe Sammy Glicks’ rabid ambition and ruthlessness as he rises from copy boy to Hollywood big-shot, trampling over all in his path, through the eyes of his “friend” Al Manheim.
KINDLE EDITION: An incredible amount f trpos \ anf formatting errors.Very good book. Awesome even. Maybe a bit long on the union politics -- ok, VERY long on the union politics -- but it pays off a bit later on.Also included are the two original short stories that started Sammy running. Well worth the extra effort to read them -- not that they add to Sammy's "legacy", but rather to see the acorns that grew the mighty oak.
What Makes Sammy Run tells the story of Sammy Glick, a man with boundless ambition and no morals to stand in his way.
Eventually the narrator's obsession with the question "what makes Sammy run?" reads more as a desperate fixation than an interesting story point.
I found the book to be enjoyable, but when compared with other Hollywood classics like The Player and The Day of the Locusts, I would definitely put it at the bottom of the pile.
He is a fascinating character study and anyone who reads this will recognize someone that they know or have worked with - maybe even themselves - in this character.As the author wrote in the Afterword of 1989....."The book I had written as an attack on antisocial behavior has become a how-to book on Looking Out for Number One." I think too many people over the past thirty to forty years have read this book as just that and it's very disturbing.

Having followed Ryan Holiday's work over the years, this book was mentioned quite favorably many times.
I can't believe it took me this long to get around to reading it.
I devoured the book in one sitting.
It's a fantastic story and an incredibly insightful peek into the ambitious mind.
I found myself thinking that the tactics Glick used can be applied without screwing people over while still getting ahead.
I also found myself being reminded of Robert Greene's 48 Laws, for this book illustrated many of those laws perfectly.
I will read this one again, and next time with a pen and sticky tabs.
A masterpiece. For On the Waterfront alone, Schulberg deserves to be considered one of the great American writers of the C20th. But What Makes Sammy Run? confirms his position. A savage and witty attack on an entire political / social philosophy (or rather a non-philosophy), the book charts the rise and rise of Sammy Glick from the gutter of New York's East Side to Beverly Hills. The individualism, the greed: the heartlessness at the heart of the American dream.
A portrait of a particularly American monster, the man on his ruthless way to the top of what he deems the ultimate success. Chilling and brilliant and, often, very funny.
An easy, quite witty and fast book that sticks to the topic, thus a 'study' of Sammy Glick and to some degree--Hollywood scene of the late 30's/early 40's.
The only thing that Schulberg got wrong is that this personality type is not something that can only arise in places like the tenements of New York's old time Lower East Side.
It's an equal opportunity personality disorder.There are lots of great things about Sammy that go way beyond simple aggressive materialistic narcissism.
You always know where he stands -- Just put on your Sammy goggles and look at the world with Sammy vision.Schulberg is also very smart in showing how the rest of us deal with the Sammys of the world.
At one point he asked which book did she think best summed up Hollywood; she didn't hesitate: "What Makes Sammy Run?" I've known of the book for years and have seen some of Schulberg's film work.
The story has a narrator (a drama critic) - it's through his eyes that we Sammy rise (like a rocket) from over-eager newspaper copy boy to ruthless movie mogul.
But, even though the book is completely drenched in Hollywood, 'WMSR?' is not just about (or does not just apply to) the movie industry - the story could be set anywhere; there are opportunists everywhere.
Sammy is the “All American Heel.”, a con man similar to Du Maupassant’s Bel Ami but with a back story which make his frenetic manipulations comprehensible.
At the time Sammy was written, there was a pervasive sense in this country that the WASP aristocracy were paragons of ethical behavior and morality.
Bad guy, Sammy.
But, the WASP oligarchy (and their imitators) was just as crooked, underhanded, and selfish; the main difference between Sammy and his “betters” was that they had better manners.
Schulberg moves the story of a manipulative sociopath along via dialogue and behavior, both of which are often quite funny.
Given the time period of 1941, you'd think this book would be more dated, but it's not.Sammy Glick is a despicable person and you'll pick that up almost immediately, but I have to say, as repulsive as he is, Al Manheim's frenemy behaviors bothered me a lot as well.
Even if that someone was Sammy Glick.I wondered while reading if the frenemy behaviour was intentional, but given the time it was written and that I don't think frenemies were in the public's consciousness until after 2000, I'm guessing it wasn't.One of my favourite quotes from the novel was when Al told Sammy "You're physically incapable of having friends.
Chamou a atenção quando Bette Davis comentou sobre ele num programa do Johnny Carson, dizendo que é o melhor livro sobre Hollywood.
Gostando de cinema, tinha colocado ele na mira, mas demorei um tempo pra comprar e mais ainda pra ler.Meu arrependimento é não ter lido antes.
Mas e na vida, quando a ficção não está dissecando os defeitos de um personagem explicitamente para o leitor, será que este analisa-se para ver quantos traços de Sammy Glick existem nele?
