https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41589.The_Affluent_Society
There is the private economy, where goods are produced to be sold in the open market, and then there is the public economy, where governments raise taxes to support socially necessary functions – the military, police, schools, sanitation, roads, and so on.
The wealthy economy of producers finding new and better ways to get us to buy their products – mostly today by also encouraging us in our extravagant borrowing (borrowing money we can’t afford so as to purchase goods we do not need).
To fund this second economy better Galbraith suggests increasing sales taxes.
Goddamn greedy, overly ripe, crumb-lipped mall-mutts, I'd love to crack your fucking spongiform shells together to let in some oxygen!
Fucking assholes, wake the fuck up and figure out what the fuck is going on.
Fucking Christ, I keep pointing this shit out and you tosspot pickle-ticklers, you thick-witted, cross-eyed Mary's, you tube-glued, gelatinous fuck-weevils keep screwing the goddamn pooch.
I wonder if he was prescient for 1958, for example in the role of debt in sustaining a consumer society, or simply astute when it came to updating each edition?It is an elegantly written essay, slightly too elegant with it's swan's neck phrasing to be easily quotable, but a pleasure to read in this and in its content it reminded me of Veblin's The Theory of the Leisure Class, that sets out that the economic thinking of Smith and Ricardo among others became the conventional wisdom that informed a whole host of ideas not just about economics, but politics and society more generally, this however in the face of the actual economic reality in which we live.
Essential reading for anyone interested in economics or public policy.
The book takes on and dismantles the "conventional thinking" (he made up that phrase first) in economics.
Some of it is outdated, but unfortunately for us, most of it is not.
Economists still see the private sphere as the only relevant measure of the economy and not public works.
In this, I think book like Doughnut Economics are a good update because they link this concern with the depleted environment.
Galbraith is an excellent writer and thinker and this book is a must-read.
I read this for the Capitalism/Democracy/Socialism course taught under the aegis of Loyola University Chicago's Philosophy Department in the first semester of 1981/82.
The first, the free market capitalist, was primarily represented by Milton Friedman.
The second, the Keynesian capitalist, was primarily represented by J.K. Galbraith.
The third, the market socialist, was primarily represented by David Schweickart, our instructor.I decided to take the Keynesian position simply because I figured most of the students would adopt the more extreme views either out of conviction or to suck up to the professor.
Galbraith wrote this entire book as a protest against the growth economy, as if it was an economic law that once men's most basic material desires are met, they are fed, clothed and housed, then their fundamental purposes in life have been fulfilled.
Therefore, since man, in his view, does not need more than the minimal requirements of existence and since modern society produces enough to satisfy these basic needs for every citizen, it is foolish to keep our focus on expanding the economy.
This is one of the books that helped form my economic thinking.
This book published in 1958 was a great manifesto for Lyndon Baines Johnson's Great Society.
Galbraith argued that America was a rich society capable of caring for all its members.
What was needed was increased taxation of the rich to finance social programs for the poor.Galbraith's argument was treated with great seriousness by the majority of North Americans throughout the sixities and seventies.
Today it has fallen out of favour as Americans have begun to fear that through the process of globalization they have lost control of their own economy and destiny.
So I kind of agree with what Galbraith has to say, but it doesn't read so easily. It felt more like a piece of social science academia, than a non-fiction book. If you're okay with that, then it's an insightful look at economics and capitalism, from a 1950s American viewpoint.
Galbraith is an extraordinary writer - sophisticated yet reasonably accessible, with a dry and biting wit.I was also struck by a perception that the world be describes (repeating something I said during an earlier update) - in terms of security of employment, popular concern regarding inequality, the existence of a growing middle class - is less like that of today than was the world of Henry George's "Progress and Poverty" - written in 1879.
that is, it feels to me that in many ways our political economy has regressed.Much of his book deconstructs what he describes as the myths that underlie "current" popular conceptions about the realities of economic life - the "conventional wisdom".
- Galbraith still towers over a humane, practical and honest stream of economic thinking and writing.
Arguing that conventional economic thought was not only the child but the captive of a time when scarcity was an everyday reality for most of the European and American 'world', he puts an elegant but passionate case for looking at things as they actually are, rather than as theorists insist that they must be, in order to address the real poverty that continues to haunt the few, amid the extraordinary and novel affluence of the many in the developed world.The book is incredibly prescient - Galbraith updated it in 1998, so that he refers to the crises of the 1970's, which nonetheless fit neatly into the scenario he had written about decades before.
Heads of government trying to work out the current economic chaos could do worse than turn to the wisdon of J K Galbraith.
This is a highly commendable book and should be of interest to anyone who has ever walked under the sun.
It deals with great clarity with the economic and financial myths our affluent society surrounds itself in every day - from the inefficiency of monetary policy to the shortcomings of fiscal policy - Galbraith easily and masterfully shows us how esoteric and irrational most of the acclaimed economic axioms actually are.
Despite being written in 1958, everything this book talks about is of great relevance, at least to anyone who has ever even remotely heard of the financial crunch of 2008 or anyone who has held a job, for that matter.
"The greater the wealth, the thicker the dirt."
This book is well written and has extraordinary explanatory power. Galbraith speaks about our culture's economic priorities within the context of historical economic theories and critiques the logic and accepted ideas that create these priorities. Worthwhile and thought-provoking.
"Every rise of profits," on the other hand, "is favorable to the accumulation of capital, and to the further increase of population, and therefore would, in all probability, ultimately lead to an increase in rent." The effect of these compact relationships will be clear.
These also have an effect on individuals which is roughly proportionate to the amount of their property that lies in the path of the flames or the water."Pg.- 90"The immediate although not the ultimate cause of depression is a fall in the aggregate demand - meaning in the purchasing power available and being used - for buying the output of the economy.
at Harvard, in his "classic" (best selling) work on American Capitalism telling people that the exception to his "rule" about American big business being able to control their markets, due to their size, and advertising power, such as Ford and it's somewhat stable "control" of 22-25% of the US auto market, could foist on the American public whatever new car model design it wanted, and the public would just buy it, regardless.
The exception he was trying to not just belittle, but actually literally make into an extra reason why his "rule" was true, was of course the too obvious to ignore case of Ford's Edsel model, which flopped.
This crap is usually boring, but Galbraith is funny.
At any rate, the "datedness" of this work really stands out, since the economic theory in the book stops with Keynes (and what Galbraith, perhaps rightly, feels to be the bastardization of the General Theory's message by opportunistic legislators who want the cure without the treatment).
Read the work of economic historian Robert Heilbronner (who collaborated with Galbraith's son James, a talented economist in his own right, on a series of projects) if you're looking for short, clear treatments of Smith, Ricardo, Malthus, Marx, Veblen, et al.
His fears about monetary policy, the creation of consumer desires, the possibility of too much work (six day workweeks for some!), have all been realized.
I just finished reading The Affluent Society by John Kenneth Galbraith.It was really the first book I've read that allowed even a fleeting glimpse into the opaque and arcane realm of macro economics.
The Affluent Society is a book written in the late fifties mostly in study of America's post WWII economy.
child's play.My favorite part was in the beginning as Galbraith describes the difference between a poor society and an affluent society.
The rise of marketing as a means of creating the wants that are to be satisfied is the surest sign that we're devoting enormous resources to the wrong projects.The assumption also results in the political advantage of the "man of production"—the business man, and a disadvantage for public institutions which do not directly produce tangible consumer goods.
We ought to tax private production handsomely, and so reduce the rate at which it destroys the environment, while acquiring badly needed resources with which to educate people, to clean up the environment, to drive the pace of technological change while shielding workers from the caprice of the market.The entirety of the book is well-argued and the style is of the very highest quality that can be found in English non-fiction.
However, his claim to run up massive deficits and for large transfers of income and wealth through redistributionary taxes are similar to the recent claims by Pickety, which both fail to see the error of believing that a small group of people has sufficient information and knowledge to turn the right wheels of an economy or that government created the environment for these ills to occur.The less we focus on voluntary exchange (i.e. Free markets), the more problems there will be.
Most of the problems Galbraith noticed then and we see today are not caused by free market capitalism but rather crony corporatism in a socialist-dominated economic system.
In this sense the book was well ahead of its time and a new edition would surely make more of the happiness angle as well as the sustainability issue which has been all a buzz in recent years.Chuck in some barbs at the rate at which society invents wants to justify and consume new production and you're singing from my own hymn sheet.
It is far easier to cut the function than the waste, and this is what occurs...The Importance of cutting expenditure, however much is may be urged on the more vacuous margins of the conventional wisdom, may on occassion sustain hope.
I first read this book in 1970 when I was in the Army and I was all of 19.
If it was stunning then....what he wrote...in the edition that I just read ( which is the 40th Anniversary Edition) it is trembling with ideas that quaked to be presented.
He writes to be read and understood.
So if your reading in a coffee shop or in a library and start laughing....don't try to explain to the on-lookers...Just giggle a little more say your sorry and keep reading..Ronnie
In some ways it seems he really has a handle on the post WWII economic society in America, not only at the time he wrote the book in 1958 but even today.
However, many of his ideas sound good on paper but do not necessarily work in practice.
Also, his ideas on unemployment insurance and social welfare (which basically have been put in to practice), may be good ideas in a society where idleness is frowned upon, but this no longer seems to be the case and the system is often abused at taxpayer expense.
John Kenneth Galbraith’s The Affluent Society explores affluence in America.
He challenges many prevailing views on economics including economic security and production, as well as marginal utility and consumer demand.
Galbraith suggests that consumer demand isn’t one sided: i.e. production is simple response to demand.
Rather, Galbraith suggests that advertising and consumer demand are inseparable.
The need for production, which he suggest is not always the most important, tends to conflict with the need for full employment.
Most intriguing of all may be his observation that as the United States has become more affluent the nature of work, as an identity, has shifted.
Goodreads The Affluent SocietyGalbraith is the creator of the term "conventional wisdom." I picked up this book specifically to read what are still today polemical postulations.
In our society a similar stability is enforced far more informally by the conventional wisdom." Conventional wisdom being the ability to accept political dogma, whether liberal or conservative, no matter, its in its set boundaries that ensure its predictability and lack of originality.
His word associations and even metaphors are tenuously grasped by me due to my lack of institutional instruction in relation to history and politics.
I find it easier to read aloud and it helps maintain a rhythm I silently lack maintaining.
John Kenneth Galbraith was a liberal economic thinker. This book was one of his best-known works. He argues that the widening gap between richest and poorest citizens threatened economic stability. He made suggestions as to how this might be addressed. Some of his predictions turned out to be dead wrong. Nonetheless, his analysis, though somewhat dated, addresses some long-term issues that still bedevil us.
A fantastic, (relatively) light economics book that's great for beginners. While it's obviously outdated, with historical context on the American economy before and after the 1950s it becomes an interesting glimpse into past economic theory.
Galbraith argues that this is basically absurd, and because I already believed it was so, I found the argument more persuasive than it might appear to others.Historical tendency has for societies to be so poor that almost all production is of these inbuilt desires and so increasing production meant increasing production of these important goods.
However, he argues that in a richer society, where production is made for goods for which there is no inbuilt desire, that we would not miss it when we didn't have it because we didn't even know we wanted it in the first place, this effort to increase production can lead to perverse outcomes.These perverse outcomes being an alarming increase in personal debt creation from artificially high production, a social imbalance created by neglected public services for which there are no advertisers artificially increasing demand for, and runaway inflation.
And remarkably given its age, a lot of the points it made were relevant, even allowing for revisions of a later edition (which is in itself 20 years old).The central premise is that Economics, and ruling policy, is focused on maximising production of goods and services, but the conditions in which this was once a valid pursuit are no longer applicable to the modern first world.
We also value private consumption over public service, and Galbraith was very pursuasive in arguing that all public spending is viewed in the context of waste in a way that doesn't apply to private consumption, as that is due to a decision made by the individual rather than the collective.Galbraith has (unusually) proposed a solution to this, in the form of a sales tax.
Galbraith notices that the production capacity that arose through the period does in fact lead to a type of abundance, but that two unexpected things happen.First, the economy splits in two between a working class and an affluent class.
As a result, a whole mess of people start writing about this sort of thing.Second, he notes that there is a tendency for the affluent to have undue power in a way that does in fact exploit those that do not have.
The second thing he explores is maybe we just make people work less.
maybe there is a way we can do this, reduce work hours and let people try this living thing.
I did not study economics in college.
Nothing quantitative and all pretty soft in terms of deep analysis.
To me, econ became quantitative political science and I was woke.
That is when I became aware of Galbraith and read "Economics Peace and Laughter." Pretty sad that it took me this long to turn to "The Affluent Society" arguably Galbraith's most famous work.
I could not help but see parallels in today and Galbraith's analysis of the gilded age with where we are in terms of economic policy today.
Galbraith debunks many conservative and liberal economic myths.
