https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29800.Scott_Pilgrim_Volume_1
I knew this was going to be one that I loved! SO MUCH FUN I NEED THE REST OF THE SERIES. I feel like this series is just going to be the perfect MOOD BOOSTER for me. Feeling down? SCOTT PILGRIM WILL LIFT YOU UP.
4.5/5I saw the movie adaptation a couple of years ago and, ever since then, I've wanted to start the graphic novels. I'm so happy that I finally did, because this definitely didn't disappoint! I liked it even more than the movie because the art is used in such a clever way, so different than any other graphic novel I've read before (I've only read Maus and Fun Home, but those were for school.) The humor was great as well and I already ordered the next volume so I can read it soon!
Game on! This is the first book (in a series of six) of “Scott Pilgrim” saga.Creative Team:Creator, writer and illustrator: Bryan Lee O’Malley  AM I DREAMING?  Um… am I dreaming? -- -- I’ll leave you alone forever now.  Thanks. My first contact with Scott Pilgrim’s world was through the movie adaptation, that I wouldn’t watch (at least not so soon as I did) if Mary Elizabeth Winstead (which I love) wouldn’t be in the cast. And I would lost a lot! Since that movie rules!So bizarre, clever, excit
This movie was just right for me!I was watching it again last week (I have it in DVD and Bluray, and yes I am keeping both editions since the DVD has a magenta background in its cover, and the Bluray has a blue background in its cover, and if you know the most basic things about Ramona Flowers (Mary Elizabeth Winstead’s character) you well know that this is just wonderful and yes, I’d need a future format edition in a green background, dang it!).So, I was watching once again the movie, and again I was thinking that I should read the original Canadian mangas (or are they comics?
DNF at page 54. (This was exactly what I was feeling while reading Scott Pilgrim's Precious Little Life.)I actually tried watching the movie a while back, but it made me really, really uncomfortable. And the same happened while reading the graphic novel. I wanted to read it because I really liked Seconds, but I guess I somehow forgot that the movie was based off of a graphic novel. And I hadn’t made the connection between the two until I started reading and feeling really (and I mean really) une
(This was exactly what I was feeling while reading Scott Pilgrim's Precious Little Life.)I actually tried watching the movie a while back, but it made me really, really uncomfortable.
I wanted to read it because I really liked Seconds, but I guess I somehow forgot that the movie was based off of a graphic novel.
I was so close to giving up after this section and I kept thinking, "I don’t hate myself this much, I can put it down."Maybe it’s a personal thing, but I just can’t get over how uncomfortable my reading experience was.Example number 20 of Scott's immaturity:
What a weird comic. I couldn't stop reading. Scott is quirky and endearing. The humour is great. I heard bad things about the movie, but the book is perfectly enjoyable. Art could have been better.
I FREAKING LOVED THIS.The art was used SO cleverly which my graphic design mind loved and is probably one of the reasons I liked it so much.I've seen the movie so I had a little more to go off of when reading this, but I was surprised to find I loved it maybe more than the movie?It's so quirky and wonderful and just so much good stuff wrapped into one thing. SO GOOD.
On the other hand, once introductions got over, during the last scene of the book (the concert and Scott's fight with the first evil ex-boyfriend) I really started to like this quirky, little story.
I now believe that Michael Cera was brilliant casting for Scott Pilgrim's character, because I hate Michael Cera with a passion, too.
I'm not going to change my rating because my opinion stands firm.
I really *didn't* care greatly for the first volume of Scott Pilgrim.
But I also went on to read all the subsequent volumes...and fell in love with the series, the characters (maybe not Scott...
I’ve read Bryan Lee O’Malley’s Scott Pilgrim before, seen the (extremely faithful) Edgar Wright movie adaptation, and have just re-read it (this time in colour), and the comic still blows me away with its quality.
On paper the story seems like no great shakes: 23 year old Scott is dating 17 year old Knives Chau, the aforementioned high schooler, (nothing funny, just holding hands), and then he meets Ramona Flowers, his literal dream girl whom he falls hard for.
Am I too old to like Scott Pilgrim?I just don't care for a main character who is in his twenties, has no job, sleeps (the zzzzzzzz kind) with his roomate, dates a high school girl and cheats on her with a kinda cool delivery girl.How is this guy attractive to women at all?Back in my day...This graphic novel made me feel old.Scott Pilgrim is a bit of a dick and it is hard to cheer for him when he is fighting his girlfriends ex boyfriends.
For the most part, the movie follows this volume exactly, though the movie adds a few things that I think are hilarious – like Scott and Knives at the arcade, Scott’s story about Pac Man, and the way Scott describes Ramona’s hair.
I think one of the things that I find sort of subtly hilarious in this story is how these insane male wish-fulfillment dreams will get fulfilled in the story, and Scott only reacts in a somewhat douchey way, but nobody freaks out.
Because all of Scott's conversations with his sister are so hilarious to me.Digression: I saw the movie two or three times in the theater.
This wasn't so bad, but that cover sucks.I'm not that fond of reading contemporary novels, and it's no different with graphic novels.
This had a simple plot, and nothing made it amazing for me.
The artwork was decent, but I've seen way better.
People have been recommending this everywhere, so I decided to finally give it a try.
It's honestly not that bad, it would appeal more to the contemporary readers.
I'm still interested to continue on with the series though.
Not something I would recommend normally, but go ahead and give it a try.
Buying all of them, what can I say?!
It's about time I got back to my comic book to-read pile, anyways.
Both Nick and Nora's and Scott Pilgrim were by-the-book quirky.Both also had somewhat unsettling homophobic overtones, playing off gay characters and same-sex romance for jokes.
Then the overt homages to manga and videogames start to trickle in, infesting the seemingly normal world of the comic with magic, fights, and all the rest.Yet unlike FLCL, this was not a rollicking, take-no-prisoners, psychedelic reimagining of a genre, it was just a dull story about annoying people occasionally perked up by in-joke fight scenes.
4.5 Estrellas.Divertida y extrañamente graciosa. Una perfecta novela gráfica con personajes bien definidos que sabe darle su debida importancia a cada uno de los mismos.Debo aceptar que me mostraba un tanto escéptico sobre leer ahora, o seguir posponiendo la historia, pero me alegro de haberla escudriñado al fin. No me arrepiento para nada.Espero que los siguientes tomos me mantengan así de entretenido.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestThe movie adaptation of this comic book series came out during my second year of college. I went to go see it with friends and we were totally blown away because everything was so "scene" that it literally hurt, and also all the video game and anime callbacks, plus the fact that it was kind of like a Jackie Chan movie as done by Judd Apatow. My twenty-year-old brain was blown away by the awesome, and it never occurred to me to question the
I went to go see it with friends and we were totally blown away because everything was so "scene" that it literally hurt, and also all the video game and anime callbacks, plus the fact that it was kind of like a Jackie Chan movie as done by Judd Apatow.
The surreal, video game/kung-fu movie atmosphere is still present in the comic books and I liked that air of magic realism.
The book, like the movie, is also so "scene" that it hurts, although since the book was published in 2004, it comes across as far more dated.
Twentysomethings in an entertaining dance of romance, awkwardness, hyper self-deprecation, and quirky humor, with light elements of comic super heroism. Glad I finally got around to this.
Read on the WondrousBooks blog. I watched the Scott Pilgrim vs. the World movie years ago and it was real love. For a while it topped the “Jeannette’s Favourite Movies” list. (Even as I’m writing this, I have a strong urge to re-watch it.)Therefore, it’s probably completely understandable that I absolutely loved this book. It was  fan-tastic!  And obviously while they were making the movie, they paid huge attention to detail, because even though I had forgotten some moments and scenes, it was s
(Even as I’m writing this, I have a strong urge to re-watch it.)Therefore, it’s probably completely understandable that I absolutely loved this book.
I loved the dry humor and the sarcastic remarks to a degree in which I felt like all of the characters are my soulmates at one point or another.To be honest, out of all of them, Scott is not my favourite by far.
As well as having the readers love Ramona.
I totally feel like a Ramona sometimes, she’s the relatable hipster girl we were or tried to be in high school.
Oh and I just love how his opponent drops money after he defeat him.The story is about Scott, a 23 year old boy who’s a little immature.
Anyways Scott personal life is going quite good too, he’s dating a 17 year old high school girl ( Knives ) and things are going pretty well.Nothing last forever and one day Scott meets the girl of his dreams ( Ramona ), seriously he dreamed her first and then saw her in real life.
Naturally he wants to meet her.
They match so he wants to stop dating Knives ( but hasn't told her yet ).
This is a black and white graphic novel about a self-absorbed 23 year old boy.
The series is set up to be Scott having to fight 7 evil ex-boyfriends for the hand of Ramona.
I actually enjoy this series and I don't know that I like Scott all that much.
I like his gay roommate Wallace better.
She seems cool accept she likes Scott - big minus for her.I thought it would be a colored graphic novel.
The story was entertaining and I will read on.
It tells a good story.
Okay. So. Here’s the problem I have with this comic: I have seen it’s movie counterpart nearly 100 times. I can quote it word for word, and I loved it because it was cool to see a comic like movie. With that being said, I think it may have ruined any potential enjoyment I would have gotten from this comic had I not seen the movie.It should be pointed out that the comic basically acted as the movies script, and was nearly word for word from comic to screen. I guess I was hoping for more characte
So. Here’s the problem I have with this comic: I have seen it’s movie counterpart nearly 100 times.
With that being said, I think it may have ruined any potential enjoyment I would have gotten from this comic had I not seen the movie.It should be pointed out that the comic basically acted as the movies script, and was nearly word for word from comic to screen.
I guess I was hoping for more character development from the comic than I got with the movie.
However even though they are basically the same, it’s just been further brought to my attention how much these characters actually suck as people.
Well that was different!Scott Pilgrim's Precious Little Life is a funny graphic novel to review, not because it was laugh out loud funny but because it was a bit 'meh'.
The humour at times is kind of puerile, and I do love to entertain silliness every now and again, but I just didn't like the story.
You have to establish the setting/set-up early on and this really wasn't the case with SP.Having read Scott Pilgrim's Precious Little Life, I doubt I'm going to read any more.
-1 star for the slightly boring story.I have been meaning to read this book/comic for some time, lots of people seem to like it and I loved Bryan Lee O'Malley's previous book named: Seconds.
He asks her to date and he even makes out/has sex with her while STILL in a relationship with his high-school girl.
That High-school girl (btw, who the hell names their kid Knives) deserves better.
A boyfriend worthy of her, not a dick who thinks he is so awesome and in the mean time fucks other girls.Seriously I don't get why people like this kind of behaviour in books or any other media.
I can't believe it's been ten years since Scott Pilgrim was published and at least five since I discovered Bryan Lee O'Malley's truly original concept.
I've started rereading this series earlier today and it was just as fresh as I discovered.
Especially when he falls for the mysterious Ramona Flowers and because now he started dating her, now has to fight her seven exes.The storytelling was truly original; reading it evoked of computer games one used to play in a gaming console.
In fact, fighting Ramona's exes in succession reminded me of boss fights in Final Fantasy or any other similar role playing game.
Everything about Scott Pilgrim is fun.There's a feel to it.
It's in the mood.
The illustrations give the world this video-game vibe.
And the premise seems like something out straight out of a video game.Scott Pilgram has to defeat his love interest's seven evil-ex boyfriends.
In this book, we only meet one evil-ex, but the way Scott defeats him, through song, is incredibly fun.But even with everything the series had going for it, I'm not sure I'll continue.
In the first installment, I wanted to see more depth from the characters.
Lovely mix of Hornbyesque Lad lit, Steven Chow style comedy, and Simon & Garfunklesque post adolescent melancholy. Worked nicely as a palate cleanser after the wrist slitter that was Into The Wild. It's funny and imaginitave without being twee, honest without being obvious, and sweetly sad without drowning in ennui. It's a precious little book. Even if like me comics aren't quite your thing.
MANNY is typing on his laptop)MANNY: (typing) It's EXACTLY the same as the first half of the movie Scott Pilgrim Versus The World.
Just uncannily like.
More typing)MANNY: (typing) To be honest, I feel a little ripped-off.
I know that's completely illogical since the book came first, and I should be, you know, like praising its originality and wit, without which the movie would never have been.
But all the same.(CLOSE-UP.
MANNY turns to camera)MANNY: Hey, here's an odd thing: I suddenly like the movie a lot more.
How did that happen?(EXTREME CLOSE-UP.
MANNY, huge eyes open wide in bewilderment)MANNY: Am I dreaming?
A good start. I actually thought I might find this comic bit boring since I already watched the movie but both writing and art style are different enough to make comic completely different experience. Which one is better?I am not sure yet.I will make my judgement when when I finish series.Also I hated O'Malley's illustrations in Seconds but it didn't bother me here for some reason even though they are nearly same. I guess they fit better in weird world of Scott PIlgrim than in more mature themed Seconds.
Scott Pilgrim is a light manga-style comic about the eponymous 23 year old slacker musician who is dating a 17yo high school student Knife and meets another new girl, Ramona Flowers.
The story takes place in Toronto and this is the first of 6 books in the series.
I liked the rapid fire millennial dialog between the characters and especially the crazy ending (no spoilers!).
Ok, the plot is not particularly complex but the characters are fun and endearing and the manga style black and white artwork.
It was fun to read and I am sure to read the other volumes now.
Great fun, I had seen the movie first, so I already knew where this was going. Still, the plot and execution are... unique, to say the least. I'm not completely sold on the story, but I want to read the next volume.
The places he goes to are real places that I've been to and it makes it all the more enjoyable, but I'm getting sidetracked, Scott has cool friends, in a rock band, Scott likes video games, he is in between jobs and dating a high schooler life couldn't be better, then Ramona Flowers walks in.
It is something that I have never really seen explored well in comics before and here it's very believable.This is the main part of the book which any of you like myself are suckers for relationship stories, this is a good one as Scott have to deal with this new interesting girl in his life and his high school girlfriend.
