https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1377515.Hurry_Home_Candy
Enjoyed on openlibrary.org.
Didn't feel a lot of depth.
such as the description of Candy learning to play for the first time as a grown dog, how he took it so seriously.The pictures by Sendak didn't quite reveal his genius, imo, but they are enjoyable.
The lessons I learned are most especially don't take a pup from its mother too young, and don't use a broom to discipline it.
(Probably don't use a rolled up newspaper or anything else abusive, either.)A younger child who loves dogs would probably like this more.
Did any of you read it when you were a child?
With jarring reality, Meindert DeJong has painted the picture, through one little dog, of what it is like to be traumatically hurt, to feel betrayed and to fear people and to run from their presence.
Anyone who has ever felt such things will find themselves drawn to this deeply resounding story, as Meindert DeJong seems to describe their own heartache with uncanny sensitivity.
It all but consumed his little heart." —Hurry Home, Candy, P.
This was perhaps the book that made me love reading and dogs simultaneously...I was in the 2nd grade living in Lake Stevens, Washington. My teacher, Mrs.Fields, would read the last 15 minutes of the school day....this book was my favorite....I could not wait each day to hear her read about this little dogs life. I later named one of my dogs I had growing up , Candy:) and my love for reading was born! I did not know then that it had won the Newberry award.She was my favorite teacher and ill never forget her!
My least favorite of the DeJong I have read thus far. I had no particular affection for this dog. I'd much rather read Ginger Pye.
There are only two books I've read aloud to my children, where at the end I was laughing and crying at the same time and could hardly finish, I was so moved.
The Lord of the Rings, and Hurry Home, Candy.Meindert DeYoung is highly recommended reading for young people...
and adults!This is DeYoung's home run.
It is probably my best memory from elementary school.The stray dog, Candy, meets with lots of troubles and heartaches as he seeks a home.
How we have a hard time getting over condemnation.Please read this book!
If you struggle with the truth of Romans 8:1, you NEED this book.
They do not have to be grand examples of skilled prose; they do not even have to be good, to be quite frank.
Regardless, something in them has to move you, has to shake up your senses; these will be the books you remember and will shape how you grow as a reader.For a nine year old me, this was one of them.For those unfamiliar, this is the story of a dog, who goes from being lost to found in a series of heartrending mishaps.
There is something very human about the loneliness, the mistrust, the hurt that the dog feels; the book is quite skilled at evoking these painful emotions in the reader.But more than that, it is ultimately a story of acceptance.
I think DeJong's great strength in this book is the expression of Candy's tragedy as a dog tragedy, not a human one.
I believe animals have emotions; they are not human emotions -- although they could quite resemble them.
And the hopeless hopefulness of Candy has "dog" written all over it, from what external observation of dogs has shown.Candy also typifies the casual cruelty we subject these dependent domestic animals to when we (which is the norm) claim them inferior to humans but simultaneously apply human rules and judgments to their behavior arbitrarily.
I read this book as a kid. It was the first book I ever read on my own that completely immersed me in the story. I was the child, I was the dog... I sobbed my way through this book and lived my days in the story for a long time after I read the last page. It transformed me as a reader and has stayed with me to this day.
Me and dog Books. If they are any good, I adore them. This one, by one of my favorite children’s authors, I read in two sittings. My heart was bursting with grief for a good deal of it, but I couldn’t stop reading. DeJong understands dogs so well.
melodramatic
This was one of the most depressing dogs books I have ever read. Halfway through the book I knew it had to end happily but there was not a hint of hopefulness in the writing. The writing was all doom and gloom and it was too much.
I don't remember many books specifically from my childhood, which is odd since I read all the time. But this one I checked out from the library over and over. It made me cry, and I loved it. It's one I need to reread!
It's a sad story of a dog's life. I wanted to read it because it is an award winner. This author writes well, but I had a hard time getting into this book.
But when he had done wrong there came the terror of the broom to teach him right from wrong.”The dog accidentally makes a mess on the floor: “After such an accident there was no pardon for him, no reprieve.
And in the other corner of the silent kitchen stood the broom.”Love the way he describes the flow of traffic on a crowded sidewalk, very much like a river: “Both man and dog were so intent on what they were doing neither took notice of a small flurry that suddenly developed on the sidewalk behind the little dog.
The hurrying crowd swirled and eddied around the mess on the sidewalk.”“No more brooms in this house.
Candy is a puppy taken too early from his mother by a pair of excited children.
As a result, Candy becomes a fearful little dog.
When Candy is lost, his fearfulness is especially problematic, inhibiting chances of happiness again and again until -- at last -- love conquers.
My son was touched, but this book still didn't pass the Lego Test: if he's really tuned in as I read, he puts down his current Lego project to either pace the room (if it's an exciting part) or climb on the bed next to me (if it's a touching part).
IF YOU LIKED THIS TRY...
I liked this book much better than I liked Shadrach (another Meindert Dejong book I've read).
There were children in this story, yes, but they didn’t figure so prominently in it.
The story is told mostly from the viewpoint of the dog, and although I’m not a dog person, I feel Dejong really got inside the brain of a puppy who is lost and forced to fend for himself.
Still, although I did like this book more than the previous Dejong book, it still wasn’t my favorite.*Read more on my blog: http://newberyandbeyond.com/newbery-r...
Well written dog-story with a complex balance between sweet, sad and heartwarming ( Dejong works it out beautifully!) The story begins on the sad side.
The focus being on the abused and abandoned dog Candy who lives a life of constant fear and hunger.
He keeps to the shadows fearing all humans.
Which becomes the question of the story - will he ever overcome his abusive background, ( with the most terrorizing figure in it - the inanimate broom ) and will he ever find someone to trust and love?
If you love retro 80's books check out my site - http://cliqueypizza3.wordpress.com/
Hurry Home, Candy is a Newbery Honor book that was originally published in 1953. It has a 3rd.-6th. grade interest level and a reading level of 5.0.Maurice Sendak, the author of Where the Wild Things Are did an excellent job of illustrating the novel. The author, Meindert DeJong, has written a classic story detailing a dog's struggle to survive despite dangers and his own inner fears. It reminds me of the books I read as a kid. I understand why it has been reprinted so many times and why it is still available for purchase today.
This is a book that I love partly because I read it when I was child and it was the first book that I really read by myself having struggled with reading.
This book is about a puppy and you follow its life for just over a year.
Within that year the puppy has more misfortune than any living thing should.
It is a simply written book that leads you through the events of this puppy's life as he tries to survive in the wild and then tries to find love and a home.
Can anyone love this little puppy that seems so scared and yet survives through so much?
DeJong drew you into a dog's life, interpreting things from its perspective. We could see how its treatment affected how he responded. Meindert also gave the perspectives of those around the dog, unlike some books written exclusively from a dog's view. A sad tale of a lonely, run-away dog, hiding but not wanting to. Sometimes the redundancy of descriptions were omitted while I read aloud to the boys, but the plot moved along, creating anticipation.The boys enjoyed it.
Chance are I would not have picked up this 1971 Newbery Honor Book if a student had not recently raved to me that it was "the best book I've ever read!" Any book about a stray dog who finally finds a home is likely to tug at my heartstrings, and this one was no exception - and it was recommended by an 8th grade boy no less...! A good choice for those who like sentimental animal stories. Keep the tissues handy.
I still have strong memories of this book from middle school. I had no dog growing up, but the story of this poor dog stuck with me,. I now volunteer at an animal shelter, and have always had empathy for animals looking for their forever home. There is an important lesson here in the responsibility of animal ownership amidst an excellent story.
I thought that this was a pretty good. If you love dogs and don't mind a sad story, then this will work for you. However, I was quite disappointed with the kids at the end of the book. Kind of dumb, in my opinion, how that turned out. Also, I think the author kind of overdid the whole 'fear of brooms' thing. It was okay at first, but it got old after awhile.
This is a beautiful, heartwrenching children's book. Told from the perspective of a small, terrified stray dog who finds courage through the love of one good man. The sorrow of the dog's suffering is quite hard to take, so I'm holding off on sharing it with my seven year-old, but I know some day we will.
I thought that this book was amazing. the story was very well thought out, and the characters were well rounded. the only reason i rated it 4 stars is that it's so incredibly sad. but a good sad that makes you want to read more and more.
I remember reading this book as a kid, and for some reason, it popped into my head one day while I was looking up books about dogs for someone. Behold, the library owned a copy! So, I read it again, and it was almost as good as I remembered (a rare thing indeed).
My mom read this book to my sister, brother, and me when we were younger.It's a truly wonderful story, albeit sad in some parts. This book helped shape my love of animals, especially dogs, and how much I care for them.
This is a very intriguing story. It captures your attention when your heart goes out to the poor suffering Candy, a small dog that seems to spend his whole life trying to find where he belongs. A classic.
This book totally traumatized me as a kid. I don't understand adults who write incredibly sad stories about animals for children! Sadists. It's an incredibly sad story about an unloved and abandoned dog. He gets a happy ending at the end but man, the journey to get there is gut-wrenching.
