https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/306364.Sugar_Daddy
5++++ stars – Contemporary RomanceEdited 8/24/13:  Sugar Daddy  is the book that initially made me a Lisa Kleypas fan, but I love everything she’s written. I’ve reread this several times now and it’s still one of my top all-time favorite beloved romances. I can’t wait for Joe’s story!I really wish this series would get made into a movie!Original Review 4/24/09:This is the first novel I have read by Lisa Kleypas, and I mainly read it in order to have the necessary background to read “Blue-Eyed De
I honestly didn’t have very high expectations of “Sugar Daddy” based on the mediocre book jacket description, after reading some of the mixed reviews referring to it as chick-lit rather than romance, and that it’s written solely in first person point of view, which isn’t my preference.Needless to say, I was very pleasantly surprised and completely blown-away by this book.
There were moments when I would have liked for some of the narrative to come from Hardy's and Gage’s points of view, but the bottom line is that it’s Liberty’s tale and her life struggle and perspective are what drive the story.
I guarantee you'll admire Liberty Jones, you'll fall in love with Hardy Cates (is there a more mature, understanding, compassionate young man than him?), and you'll swoon for Gage Travis.
If I had one thing (or things) to nitpick over, things that held this back from being a 5 star read, it was this: I thought Gage got a little short-changed on his back story, and I would've liked to read more about Gage and Liberty as a couple.
They didn't actually meet until late in the book, and didn't get a whole lot of pages devoted to them (as Liberty and Hardy's early years did).
FULL REVIEW NOW POSTED Sometimes life has a cruel sense of humor, giving you the thing you always wanted at the worst time possible. The irony of it split my heart open, setting loose more bitter regret than I could bear. Be aware that my review is a little bit spoiler-ish; nothing major thoughAbout my ratingWhen you read my review you will ask yourself why I rated this book so high. Well, even though I dislike chick lit I think it wouldn't be fair to give it a low rating. That's a personal pref
I'm not really happy.It didn't help either that Gage and Liberty didn't get enough page-time.
The focus of the story is not on Gage and Liberty's evolving relationship (I wouldn't even call it an evolving relationship), and Sugar Daddy is not my usual romance.
Gage doesn't like to talk about his feelings; he has a hard time to admit that he's vulnerable and he's got commitment issues.
And when she senses that something is going on between Hardy and Liberty, she tells him that he shouldn't spend any more time alone with her daughter.
Turns out, he wasn't the hero.
The latter turned out to be a blessing in disguise since this guy became the hero in the second book, which is my favorite in the series.
So it's not surprising that I liked this better the second time around because I've gained some perspective on a few things especially with the author's decision to pair Liberty and Gage instead of Liberty and Hardy.
Two, this book -- like I said -- is heroine-centric.
Gage and Hardy still stood out to me but this is Liberty's story.
The book starts out as a coming of age story about a young woman, Liberty, and her journey through life, the good and the bad, and her all-encompassing, soul-defining love for her sister.
The end becomes a romance story in which Liberty has to decide which man was right for her.
But I felt the focus had shifted from Liberty's journey to explaining which man was right for her, almost a bit of show and tell, to me as a reader.
This is my first book by Lisa Kleypas. I stumbled upon it a few days ago and when I realized a lot of my GR friends loved it I decided to give it a go.  When Sugar Daddy starts out we meet a young Liberty Jones. She is living with her mom, trying to find her spot in world, dreaming about her future and falling in love like any other teenager. She doesn’t have much but she surrounds herself with people that matter knowing that someday her life would be different.While fluttering through her young
When Sugar Daddy starts out we meet a young Liberty Jones.
There really wasn’t anything not to love about Hardy.
It may have been innocent love but Hardy held a big piece of Liberty’s heart that she wouldn’t get back until much later in her life.
Liberty would soon find out that the life she was living wasn’t going to get any easier.
Liberty’s struggles would only shape her into the strong and independent woman that she becomes and when her life changes yet again she meets Churchill Travis.
Churchill wasn’t your typical Sugar Daddy.
I loved watching Liberty grow and change.
Buddy Read with the lovely people at the Unapologetic Romance Readers in April 2016.Last night I would have given Sugar Daddy more stars.
He was barely there for Liberty during her childhood.
He just seems such a nice guy and all.On the other hand, the guy who actually loves the girl gets barely any screen book time.
After all that long crap about Liberty's childhood, we barely get a few pages that explain her adult life or her love choice.In the spirit of this book, I'll rush the end of my review and say I choose not to read the next one.
This was a re-read – loved it the first time around….Liberty Jones, living in a trailer, with her Mom, with no prospects …She meets Hardy Gates, an older guy, living in the trailer park also.
Her Mom has another child, Carrington, who Liberty loves, as if she were her own…It takes place over a number of years….
Liberty takes control of her life and enrolls in Beauty School.She meets an older man, Churchill Travis and they become fast friends.
Me encantó conocer a Liberty. ¡La adoré! ❤ A medida que ella me contaba su historia, sentí que iba caminando a su lado y creciendo con ella. Sentí su dolor y su frustración hasta el punto de querer abrazarla y contenerla. La admiré por la valentía de asumir responsabilidades que no se correspondían con su edad, y el coraje de luchar frente a cualquier adversidad sin perder la esperanza. Fui deseando que pudiera cumplir todos sus sueños y sus anhelos, y celebrando sus logros como si fueran propio
Me encantó conocer a Liberty.
❤️ A medida que ella me contaba su historia, sentí que iba caminando a su lado y creciendo con ella.
Sentí su dolor y su frustración hasta el punto de querer abrazarla y contenerla.
La admiré por la valentía de asumir responsabilidades que no se correspondían con su edad, y el coraje de luchar frente a cualquier adversidad sin perder la esperanza.
Fui deseando que pudiera cumplir todos sus sueños y sus anhelos, y celebrando sus logros como si fueran propios.
Sentí ternura por su primer amor adolescente, que despertó en ella sensaciones y emociones nuevas.
Find all of my reviews at: https://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Lisa Kleypas definitely doesn’t need my crappy little review in order to sell books, so I’ll make this short and sweet and then tell y’all how I ended up arriving terribly late to this party.Liberty wound up in Welcome, Texas as a kid with her momma and momma’s deadbeat boyfriend.
So I put my name on the waiting list fully prepared to be a wrongreader and 1 Star this thing and get some rabid fanbase trolling me up the ass on a book I didn’t even WANT to read in the first place and being pretty much like .
Don’t you love finding a worthy new book by a great author?
I'm having the "Big O" just recalling it.BTW, at the risk of sharing too much, I was right there with Liberty and the whole 68 thing and started reviewing my past loves.
I was right there with her, falling hard for young Hardy (gee, why did she name him that?).
Yet, just like my first love, I wanted Hardy to be happy.
I think that is a true sign of love, though certainly morphed into something else, when you want someone's happiness.Kleypas gives that to Hardy – and us too!
“Sometimes life has a cruel sense of humor, giving you the thing you always wanted at the worst time possible.”  I LOVED THIS BOOK!
“Many times in life I've regretted the things I've said without thinking.
But I've never regretted the things I said nearly as much as the words I left unspoken.”  This was a book that completely sucked me in, I never skimmed and I was so invested in what happened to Liberty.
I loved all the characters in this and cannot wait to read more of the series.
A keeper, a favorite and just love, love, love it!Gage Travis You've won a fan here Lisa Kleypas.
It read like the life story of Liberty Jones as opposed to a contemporary romance.
I would have liked more interaction between Liberty and the men she loved - Hardy Cates and Gage Travis.
I think if one manages their expectations before reading this to NOT expect a contemporary romance, as one has come to know and experience, or to compare it to other CRs, then one would enjoy this more.
I think that this book needs to be viewed as a story of a woman's journey, with the romance only being an aspect of that.
I also wanted to say how much I LOVED the characters of Liberty, Hardy, Gage and Carrington.
I was tempted to give this two stars but then I changed my mind to three stars because it’s more like 2.5 seeing as it is generally well-written, but in no way is this a romance in my book.
Apart from the chick-lit aspect, I found the story long, too drawn out and excessively boring.In many ways this book reminded me of Judith McNaught’s Paradise the way it chronicles two people’s lives from their teenage years through to their 20s-30s.
Kleypas writes a wicked historical romance, and maybe she writes good chick-lit too, but I for one don’t like it at all.
She did a fantastic job of giving each character a different voice and I think she was able to show Liberty's voice maturing through the story.
She also spends a lot of time thinking about the boy she met back in the trailer park, Hardy Cates.
I absolutely love how this story ends.Lisa Kleypas does a lot of things right in this book.
I would highly recommend this book to anyone who loves a good coming of age story.
I know that this is a book that I will come back to read again many times in the future.
Sugar Daddy is Liberty's story from childhood to adulthood. She experiences everything from love to heartache. In her teen years she's forced to become an adult after tragedy strikes. Growing up poor and not wanting to take handouts she's determined not to end up with a Sugar Daddy like some of her co-workers have done.Liberty has decided she is destined to be an old maid. Her life changes when two men want her affection.  "I'm thinking how thankful I am for everything even the bad stuff. Every
Sugar Daddy is Liberty's story from childhood to adulthood.
She experiences everything from love to heartache.
Growing up poor and not wanting to take handouts she's determined not to end up with a Sugar Daddy like some of her co-workers have done.Liberty has decided she is destined to be an old maid.
Her life changes when two men want her affection.
Love Triangle?
(view spoiler)[It's very mild and for less than 15% of the book.
(hide spoiler)]
200th book of 2013
Continuing story where secondary characters from the first book become the main focus in subsequent books.
(hide spoiler)]In my book, this is a great setup for a love triangle: two likeable men, and no clear picture of who she will be with at the end because she has real, solid connections with both of them.My problem came with how it played out.
Ugh.Guiltily I reflected that I had asked a lot of Gage, maybe too much, in asking him to be patient while I tried to figure out my feelings for another man.You think?!?!Fuck you, Liberty.His voice turned hoarse.
I thought she was a really strong character, and I hate that this love triangle turned her into a slimy mother fucker.
Amazing! :D Kleypas really knows how to do it. I know without a doubt this man loves me for exactly who I am. No conditions, no limits. That’s a miracle too. In fact, every day is filled with ordinary miracles. You don’t have to look far to find them.   You know how sometimes you look back at simpler times and realize how all the shit in your life was actually necessary and good? How all those things that you went through were part of this bigger plan and brought you to this moment and maybe fo
I know without a doubt this man loves me for exactly who I am.
You know how sometimes you look back at simpler times and realize how all the shit in your life was actually necessary and good?
Liberty's early years are filled of innocence and loneliness, the ferocity of the first love and the pieces of a broken heart.One of the things I really loved about this book is Kleypas' ability to capture the essence of Welcome and the texan humor.
Never been there but Texas forever, man <3The second half is good enough.
Buddy read with the foxiest of all Foxy's ❤❤❤
Buddy read with the foxiest of all Foxy's ❤️❤️❤️
I should have known that Kleypas could pull it off with her strong characters and unique writing style.The first 200 pages of this book is the back story of Liberty Jones.
When Liberty is only 18-years-old, her momma tragically dies and leaves her raising her baby sister, Carrington (named after a famous soap opera star).
Hardy and Liberty's relationship is a unique one and Liberty is heart-broken when Hardy leaves her to work on oil rigs and seek out his fortune.The story continues with Liberty moving to Houston and working her way through beauty school while still caring for her baby sister.
Despite being forewarned that this wasn’t exactly a contemporary romance, I was still surprised to read that  Sugar Daddy was more of a women’s fiction read.
Whatever you do, DO NOT READ THE BLURB because although I fully believe that Liberty ends up with who she is supposed to be with, I was still surprised at the results.I don’t usually enjoy first person narration, but there’s something about Liberty that you can’t help but like.
It was the fact that Liberty’s love shone through that made this scene one of the steamiest sex scenes I’ve read in a long time.
3 I refuse to believe Lisa Kleypas wrote this book stars Did this book bore me ?
Yes,the first 50% of the book did,with so many unnecessary details of the lead protagonist's childhood.Before you all go yelling at me with (SHOUTEY CAPITALS),let me just take a moment to explain what I meant.I get that it's important at times,to go in depth into a character's past to understand them as individuals and what really makes them choose the things,that they choose.But that DOES NOT mean I want to read her whole freaking childhood,young adulthood,teenage life etc.
Nope.Sorry.Will I keep reading Lisa Kleypas?If it's HR..Hell to the yes..Because
She falls in with the well-to-do Travis family, and things happen, particularly concerning Gage Travis.Okay.So the first thing I didn’t like about Sugar Daddy was the way Kleypas approached Texas/Texans.
I didn’t like him at any point in the story, and imagining Liberty with him was a painful thought.Love interest #2: Gage Travis, AKA the guy about whom I have many castration-centered fantasies Like, I literally cannot express how enraged this man and his behavior made me.
Even though two seconds before Liberty said she needed to take a break from their relationship.…you don’t even want to know how hard it is for me to be coherent right now.THIS SITUATION is perpetuating modern rape culture.
I love, love, loved this book. It was so much more than I expected! Much different and more involved than her other historical novels. This is, I think, her first attempt at contemporary romance, but its more than your typical romance book. Highly recommend this one, and the next two in the series are just as wonderful!
I'm a recently initiated Lisa Kleypas' lover, but i think i've come to know her style, but to me, 3/4 of the book was an awful narrative experience, with lots and lots of pages of over descriptive chapters telling us the struggles Liberty had to go thru, without actually letting us see such struggles.I'm a dialogue ho.
I just wish Lisa Kleypas could tell her contemporary stories, with the same grace and witty charm of her historicals i've come to love so much.3 stars, because it did get better at the end.
Liberty inherited her father's coloring though and feels like her family isn't enough with only her and her mom.
They strike up a friendship and Liberty begins to see Churchill almost as a father figure to her.
After an accident on a horse, Churchill wants a personal assistant and makes an offer to Liberty.
The other family members seem to be friendly and welcoming while Gage Travis becomes outright hostile towards Liberty.
One day that all changes and Liberty begins to feel attracted towards Gage.
They begin to date and Liberty finally feels like perhaps she can finally get over her long-held love for Hardy.
***I won't bother with a long review considering I read Blue-Eyed Devil and Smooth Talking Stranger first.
They are smooth, sultry and capable of many unspeakable things, ;-)).I loved Liberty.
But still, anyone capable of writing this caliber of goodness deserves the love of a stranger.
Reading this series out of order, I almost wished I had Sugar Daddy first before Blue-Eyed Devil, because it would have been easier to compare the Hardy of this book to the one of that book.
Makes me want to re-read the others.Loved it, loved the series so far and can't wait for Brown-Eyed Girl!
Sugar Daddy sends the first 2/3 of the book telling Liberty's life story up to the point where she meets Gage, then only the last 1/3 tells the story of their romance.
Don't look for romance until the last part, just sit back and enjoy the story of how she got to that place in her life.I can't wait to read Hardy's story so I can see if I can forgive his selfishness toward Liberty.
In 2007 when Sugar Daddy first came out I grabbed my copy from the library and settled in for a great read.
That's how I view Sugar Daddy.
It is a testament to the brilliance of Lisa Kleypas as a writer that though she has committed a major romance-writing sin in my opinion, I can still love this.
The writing - first person from the heroine's point-of-view - is not the distraction first person normally is.
Bottom line, I'm glad I finally read this and will be reading the other books in the series.Special Note of Thanks: To Lisa Kay for holding my hand throughout the buddy-read and for posting insightful and entertaining questions.
