https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55213.Undertones_of_War
Blunden wasn’t at the front line all the time, he was an officer of works, transport and intelligence, so the book gives quite a broad picture of the war.
Blunden was a countryman and he describes the effects of war on the landscape with telling effect;“Darkness clammy and complete, save for the flames of shells, masked that movement, but one stunted willow tree at which the track changed direction must haunt the memories of some of us.
There is great descriptive power here and I think Blunden is an unparalleled descriptor of landscape.
At times the references are so strong that he simply delegates to other artists, noting of the trees in No-Man's-Land that their description can be found in Dante, and saying of the trenches at Ypres only that ‘John Nash has drawn this bad dream with exactitude’.John Nash, ‘Oppy Wood, 1917, Evening’Blunden's effects do often come together well, and at its best this memoir conveys much of the normalcy of trench life that is skipped over by other writers; he gives fascinating little details which I've not seen elsewhere, such as that the ‘smell of the German dugouts was peculiar to them, heavy and clothy’.
Although Blunden deals with the horror of trench life (particularly effectively when he talks about 3rd Ypres), he also spent quite a bit of time away from the line - as transport officer, works officer, intelligence officer, and the like, so there is an interesting view of the support functions of the battalion, and less of the dynamics of platoon and company.I think much to the charm comes from Blunden’s narrative style.
He comes across as a bit of an affable dork, not the typical WWI officer-type, and his narrative voice is really quite charming.'Undertones of War' is a memoir of the purest sort: a recounting of Blunden’s experience in the war.
An astonishing book.
If this argument has any weight then the history of the war told before the 1950s should be one of great decisions and bold leadership.
Yet even here there is a strong sense (openly expressed at times) of despair and frustration at decisions that are doomed to failure at the inevitable cost of thousands of lives.The book doesn't reveal itself as easily as some others.
Like the war paintings of Paul Nash (who is credited within these pages with capturing the truth of the battlefield) the writing seeks a non-traditional revelation.A painful book but a beautiful one.
I am probably one of the ones who, the author himself predicts in his preface, would not understand.Where the writing is not elliptical, it is arcane; where it is not arcane, it is miscellaneous; where it is not miscellaneous, it is stilted; and where it is not stilted, it can be deadpan and beautiful.
And it takes some getting used to.
The voice seems always to be shifting around, taking up and throwing off different disguises, and every now and again, Kurt Vonnegut shows up.
It is odd to find that the most outstanding images left by a war memoir are the sylvan ones.
Read for my third-year dissertation.A good memoir, documenting Edmund Blunden's experience as a solider and poet during the First World War. It mentions a number of famous places such as Thiepval and Regina. One part of this I really liked was when he mentioned the name of the literature that helped me get through a very intense period inside the shelling.For me to use academically, it focuses more on man's relationship with the landscape and what the war has done to the earth. Not applicable to my thesis, but interesting nonetheless.
Blunden's autobiography, with a small selection of his poems in the back, was my companion on a two-week trip to Ypres and the Somme. It captured, in a way that no guidebook or museum could, the tediousness and randomness of life on the Western Front with all its terrifying sounds and smells and brief interludes of strangely normal existence behind the lines.
My experience of WW 1 novelists and poets encompasses the greats; Graves, Owen, Sassoon, Remarque.
I was simply gripped and wrung out completely by what I read; it took me there, and together with my experience among the collections of the Australian War Memorial in Canberra it was all very personal.
This may have had a lot to do with the impact the war had on Graves, Own and Sassoon.
Graves, Own, Sassoon and Remarque were seemingly on the same emotional page as I, and consequently what they had to say resonated for me.Still any exploration of WW1 literature, or history for that matter should include this book for the great deal it does have to offer
Undertones of War is one of the best known books to emerge from the First World War. Perhaps this is because Blunden beat Graves and Remarque to the punch by a year.
You come away from this book with little idea of what the war was actually like.
In Britain much of what is generally believed about the First World War comes from the poems, plays, novels, and memoirs it produced (the latter categories indistinguishable in some cases).
It also worth noting that, like Graves's much superior book, Undertones of War cuts off well before the end of the war - in early 1918.
"1916 seen from 1921"Tired with dull grief, grown old before my day,I sit in solitude and only hearL
Blunden's poetic account of his service with a Kitchener battalion of the Royal Sussex Regiment during the Somme and Passchendaele battles is no easy read.
Much of the Great War's relentless horror is disguised by the succulence of Blunden's lyrical prose - it is more often like reading an account from an earlier century - and too often the author comes over as somewhat of a peripheral tourist, rather than a full participant trapped within the infamous horrors of the Western Front.
But there are odd glimpses and the odd glimpse is enough to know that Blunden faced his fair share and more.
Read this because Robert Fisk said so / - a poet writes prose - not until page 106 did the book begin to take hold - written with deprecating humor and stiff upper lip also with a dated style and a poet's fondness for words ("with the three-o-three of the small arms factory" = .303 British) - at his best when Blunden moves behind the trenches - the book proves its worth as a set up for the few brief poems (I'm not much for reading poetry, too literal minded, but these were especially good; Preparations for Victory, The Zonnebeke Road, Pill Box, A.
Blunden, who would go on to become a distinguished poet, was commissioned in August 1915 as a second lieutenant in the Royal Sussex Regiment and served with them right up to the end of World War I, taking part in the actions at Ypres and the Somme, receiving the Military Cross in the process.
Blunden's memoir chronicles his experiences and vividly conveys the absurdity, futility, and horrific tragedy of war.
Unlike so many of his fellow junior infantry officers, Blunden survived nearly two years in the front line without physical injury.
His poems about the war, included in this volume, reflect the emotional and psychological scars of his experiences.
This work is a British poet's memoir of his World War I experience.
He offers graphic descriptions of life in the trenches and the awful, meaningless slaughter of the war.
But he also recounts the lighter moments of life behind the lines, so the book is not an unrelieved story of death and destruction.
The edition that I read, not the one indicated here, included Blunden's poetry of the war and his original, short draft of the book, which he waited more than a decade to rewrite and finish.
I highly recommend this work for anyone interested in exploring the experience of the First World War.
I read this as wider reading for my AS literature course. It was a very interesting read and showed that the soldiers, both British and German, were often friendly towards the enemy. It shows you a lot of the problems that WW1 soldiers had to see, and deal with. However I have to admit that halfway through the book I started getting bored of the repetitive events. I would still recommend this book, however, to anyone who is curious to read about the everyday life of a WW1 soldier in the trenches.
I struggled to finish this book as it became very repetitive and monotonous, although there probably wasn't a whole not of variation to trench warfare at the time to be fair. In between admiring the flowers and leaves Blunden describes his experiences as an officer on the front line. His memories of being on the receiving end of intense shelling, his forays to no mans land, and day to day live in the stench and filth of the trenches are fascinating. But overall it's difficult and slightly boring reading.
This memoir focused more of the page count on the author's experiences in the trenches. It was written after the fact as he reviewed his diary and letters from the war. One gets the feeling from the book that he decided it was all hopeless early on but he soldiered on bravely to the end of the war nevertheless. While he has a line or two of poetry here or there my copy had a section in the back full of poetry he wrote during the war.
To me Undertones of War is a great book. His discribing of the war is a bit clinical as if he does not judge. It just happened and he did what he had to do. My favorite fraze; "après mois les cinq-neuf", when he crosses some open terrain to take a shortcut and the germans start shelling him with 5/9 granates. Also his discription of the terrain are easy to follow with trenchmap in the other hand, I visited most of the places where he has been.
Edmund Blunden was one of the great poets of World War I. Unlike many others, he survived and lived a long life. This book is his memoir of life in the trenches. It reminds me of Wilfred Owen's poetic comment that "I write of war and of the pity of war. The poetry is in the pity." Reading Blunden's description of life in the trenches (See also J. C. Dunn's "The War That They Fought") plugs into the poetry, if not the verse.
Blunden has a particular style, befitting his poetic disposition and although this sometimes makes the prose a little difficult, it is also something of delight in places. In all a very powerful, compelling and personal account.
I'm not yet finished reading this stunning masterpiece, but I am confident in saying halfway through Blunden's book is the absolute pinnacle of what any sort of memoir, be it war or what have you, should be. All memoirs should aspire to Blunden's achievement here in Undertones of War.
Not quite as crisp as Remarque or Junger, but interesting nevertheless. Blunden dwells less on specifics and more on his responses.
I have read many books about WW1 and this s definitely the most evocative. The writing style is a bit tricky but worth persistence
This book is a truly excellent overview of World War I and how it changed English thought and literature. A must-read for history buffs!
Certainly one of the best memoirs to come out of WW1. Beautifully written.
Not the most memorable of autobiographies by First World War heroes, but beautiful indeed in terms of language and style.
‘The days were melancholy and the colour of clay.’ I love Blunden’s descriptions and the overall mood of this book. My many-times-read edition is terribly defaced with admiring underlining.
An incredibly moving account of the poet's experiences in the First World War with a selection of his war poetry.
