https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/377425.Flight_of_the_Intruder
This was interesting to me because it was written by and based on the combat experiences of the author who did exactly what my father did in Vietnam.
Unfortunately, I can't get my dad to read it or see the movie, due to his as yet unresolved personal issues with his experience.
As a result of his beliefs, he quit after flying nine combat missions.
What is so personally interesting to me is that the author displays in his character the exact same political conflict and the resulting inner turmoil as my father has described his to me.
Very good Viet Nam War era novel of love and combat for A-6A naval aviators.
Having served with an A-6A squadron aboard an aircraft carrier during that time, I can attest to the authenticity of the colorful experiences described both in and out of combat.
When I returned home from my tour on an aircraft carrier in 1967 I thought I'd like to write a book about my experiences there some day but Coonts beat me to it and did a much better job than I could have ever done.
Stephen Coonts was an A-6A aviator during that war.
I don't know why, but I had expected more from Flight of the Intruder.
Flight of the Intruder falls smack dab in the middle-of-the-road category to me.
Also, for an action/adventure style of novel, the action scenes just didn't do much for me.I wouldn't really recommend this book.
However, there is a series of ten books following this character.
I do own one other book in the series, Under Siege, so maybe I'll give it a try sometime and see if that changes my mind.
I have a strong feeling of ambivalence with this one. The scenes were both visceral and thrilling. It brings to the forefront the horror of war and how it does mess with your thoughts and reactions.
I'm a naval aviation fan boy as it is, but this book was written by a man that actually lived what he wrote about, (much like Ian Flemming), and it shows.
The material is so well sourced and written that it's easy to follow, and the explanations for the technical aspects of the aircraft, carrier life, and tactics are easy for anyone to follow.
As a pilot, I enjoyed being able to recognize a lot of the technical aspects as well, but that was really just for me.
The movie does this book no justice.
But definitely read the book.

I've read this book many times over the years. It is always great to get familiar with Jake Grafton again. He is one of my favorite heroes in literature. No matter what the problem is, Jake is always going to take the right path. I need to read them all again...maybe I will!
If you want to know what it's like to do a carrier landing or take ground to air missile attacks this book will do just fine. Actually the realism in this book by Navy fighter air craft during Vietnam Nam is unequaled. The main character grew tired of losing his wing mates, so he decided to take matters into his own hands. If you wAnt to know what he did, read the book. Incredible writing kept me on the edge of my seat, reading late into the night.
Having been a Vietnam war A6 pilot, Mr. Coonts' writing brought me inside Jake's A6 and I felt that I was being catapulted off the carrier alongside of him.
Those parts of the book that focused on the combat missions kept me completely engrossed.
Interestingly, the artist that voiced Jake was the one that I thought could have been better.
Some of the passages were a bit overdone on the dramatic side (performance wise) and I felt that I could have used a bit more prose after the adrenaline filled resolution at the end of the book to help me wind down before the book ended.
I just feel Coonts's writing on this one was lacking the spark to keep me thrilled about the book.
At times I found some of the stroyline predictable like a classic World War 2 movie from the 1940's and 50's and lets not forget Spike Lee's writing disaster on Mirical at St Anna's (woof that was bad!!) I get it that it was Coonts's first go at a novel.
It was too mushy and predictable where it was like I knew what they were going to say.
In my opinion the Movie was better than the book in this case.
An exciting novel with believable characters and extensive detail only someone who was there could provide.
The action is tense, detailed, and almost makes you feel like you are witnessing the events yourself.
The protagonist is neither good nor bad; but a real person caught in a messy situation with conflicting duties to his job, country, himself, and humanity.
The author develops the dilemma of a military officer struggling with self-doubt and a lacking sense of purpose very well.
The bravado and camaraderie among the officers is spot on and the morbid humor reflects what happens in a real combat zone.
I finished this book on the way to take a "hard hat" tour of a carrier, intending to leave the book for another visitor to pick up but, alas, forgot.
The book is mediocre in that it seems like the author is working a checklist: pilot suffers personal loss when his bombardier is killed--check; pilot gets a girlfriend--check; pilot disobeys orders in very, very bad way--check; pilot gets shot down and injured but saves the day through personal heroism--check.
I can only think that parts are just completely unrealistic.
You just can't have navy pilots flying off on their own missions, dropping bombs wherever.
I enjoyed the last 1/4 of this 87' novel centered around the Vietnam war much more than the rest. The characters became much more defined, while the story became much less technical. 5 of 10 stars
Fortunately, I had a anniversary edition that included a short postscript that gave us a small glimpse of the fate of all of our heroes.Ok, so [Stephen Coonts] admits in his forward that he began writing to simply tell the story of his experiences as a Naval pilot.
After the last book I read in which the protagonists were filthy-mouthed criminals I was really concerned when the story began to unfold and take the direction it was taking.
I just don't like it and if I had any one criticism for Mr. Coonts it would be that he took the language overboard for me.
This book, he told us, was a compendium of interviews with dozens of Naval airmen while he was stationed overseas during the Vietnam War. Bits and pieces of actual combat flights stitched together into a compelling story.
His hero, Jake Grafton, is a very likable guy, thrown into a war nobody wanted (after a short period of time) and quickly disillusioned.
The author's description of flying in combat and landing on a pitching air craft carrier was good enough to make me never want to do either those things.
It takes a lot of guts to be a fither pilot, and probably even more to do your flying from the deck of a ship: short runways, getting fired into the air by a catapult, and the knowledge that any mistake could land you in the insatiable and unforgiving sea.Jake Grafton has guts--when he has to.
But he's also got a highly developed sense of what's right, what he feels, and how his actions may have consequences that he doesn't intend.
In short, he's a messy human being, like most of us.This book introduces us to this compelling character in the waning days of the Vietnam War. I considered letting this be the only Jake Grafton book I read.
Our proganonist, Jake "Cool Hand" Grafton is an A-6 Intruder pilot during the Vietnam war.
Of course this is a pretty traumatic experience, and Jake begins to question the war, and his own role in it, and wonders if maybe it might be a good idea to strike a target that is actually worth dying for.The novel reads a bit like an autobiography, and why wouldn't it, as the author himself flew Intruders in the war.
This lends the book an impressive air of authenticity, and it's always a pleasure to read about flying from authors who know what flying is like.
Flight of the Intruder hasn't stood the test of time very well.
The action scenes are choreographed tightly and with effect.
What lets Flight of the Intruder down is that a slow burning approach to a military novel now seem dated in a world full of breakneck speed thrillers.
The character building is central to the book, rather than the plot, which pays off in the finale, yet makes it arduous going at times.
The action scenes are also too similar; a little too cookie cutter and although the detail is meticulous they unbalance the book, which teeters between a melodrama and action genres.
Fast-paced and authentically styled, readers who go into this wanting a book that reads like Top Gun, but with less of an eye to romance, will enjoy this.
It's meant to give a view into a fighter's cockpit and travel with a military swagger, and it does so.
From chapter to chapter, it's hard to put down, and the characters come across the page as real, careful and flawed and cocky as pilots must be.
I haven't seen the movie, though now it's more on my radar than it was before, but I'm looking forward to getting to this book's sequel.For readers who want what this promises, I'd absolutely recommend it.


This was an OK read, but I was a little disappointment to me. Having read later books in the Jake Grafton series I was keen to read the series from the beginning. Instead of a well-constructed geo-political thriller what I got felt more like the diary of A6 pilot during the Vietnam War. There was very little discernible plot as Jake went from mission to mission and some escapades whilst on leave.  I am not sure I would have persevered with it without knowing of better stories in the series to co
This was an OK read, but I was a little disappointment to me. Having read later books in the Jake Grafton series I was keen to read the series from the beginning. Instead of a well-constructed geo-political thriller what I got felt more like the diary of A6 pilot during the Vietnam War. There was very little discernible plot as Jake went from mission to mission and some escapades whilst on leave. 	I am not sure I would have persevered with it without knowing of better stories in the series to come.
I had read this book many years ago and was drawn to it once again. The author is extremely knowledgable of military aircraft being a military pilot previously. It’s a very good read and displays the range of emotions experienced by Jake Grafton, a fighter pilot during the Vietnam War.
Interesting read for getting the feel of what life was like as a pilot on a carrier during the war in Vietnam. If you're looking for engaging plot, depth of characters, or any development arc; look elsewhere.
Written by someone who has ‘been there’; you can almost smell that unique blend of salt, burnt jet fuel and hydraulic fluid from a carrier flight deck. At first reading a slightly far fetched plot but, after debating with others who had been there, was it??!!
This was a reread for me, and worth it. A story of the Vietnam war through the eyes of a fighter pilot, Jake Grafton. Growing tired of bombing trees, Jake decides to take matters into his own hands and run a rogue bombing mission that might actually make a difference.
Another series up to date.
Meh.
Read this because my brother-in-law was flying an A-6 bomber in the Navy at the time.
I read this in two days in college unable to put it down the whole time. WAY better than the movie! Alpha Mike Foxtrot.
