https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/188798.Linnea_in_Monet_s_Garden
Linnea and Mr. Bloom take a trip to Paris to see where Claude Monet lived and painted. They visit the Marmottan and view his paintings, travel onward to Giverny to see the pink house and gardens, and then back to Paris and the Orangerie for a look at the Water Lily Rooms. The story and the pictures make you want to see the lovely gardens, Japanese bridge, and lily pond for yourself. An informative biography of Monet's life and his Impressionist style of painting told in a narrative style.
Actually this is a very good book. It introduces kids to the world of painting and especially to Claude Monet. Everything is explained in a simple way and the pictures are lovely.What prevented me from rating it five stars is that I remember seeing this book in a bookstore as a kid. I skimmed through it and put it away again because I didn't like it. There wasn't enough of a story in it for my taste. Of course I see that differently now. But I still think most kids would feel the same way as I did then.
This is a book for children but people of all ages can appreciate the beautiful artwork of Claude Monet. Linnea, a little girl, visits the home and garden of Claude Monet at Giverny, France where she learns about the artist's paintings and life. The book shows pictures of Monet's work and is a fun way for students to learn more about Impressionism and one of the most famous French artists of all time.
This charming book recounts a young girls trip to Paris and her experiences at Giverny, the home of Claude Monet. Through her eyes and voice, we learn about Monet's life, his family, his triumphs and struggles. Authentic photos of Monet, his family, and his art are embedded in the whismsical illustrations. This book in the Linea series will capture the heaets if young readers who have never heard of the impressionist masters.
I don't know how I missed this book as a kid when I was positively *obsessed* with Giverny. While the prose certainly isn't the most sparkling stuff, the illustrations are lovely in a traditional way, and the story of Linnea's journey is fun to read. Also, serious style kudos to Linnea in her black tee and leggings, white pinny, and straw hat--I could wear that outfit every goshdarn day.
Crammed packed with great information, told in an interesting way. We all enjoyed this as a read-aloud.
Her parents had taken her through Paris, using this book as a guide, so she had seen all the famous paintings of Monet and visited his former home.
When she is told that the pond where Monet painted the waterlilies still exists and also the Japanese bridge, they go to Paris and Giverny to have a look themselves.- Linea's favorite painting of the Japanese bridgeThis semester my art study concentrates on Impressionisme and Expressionism, so that was one extra reason to read this book and enjoy the story.
Christina Bjork’s Linnea in Monet’s Garden is the story of a small Swedish girl and her good neighbor friend, Mr. Bloom.
Their love of art brings these two friends together as they decide to visit Monet’s garden in Giverny.
With a journey ahead of them, the book details their adventure to Paris.This book is a good representation of Monet’s works and his method.
I like how Christina used real settings and incorporated actual photographs of Monet which made the story that much more special.
This lovely story of a young girl’s dream of visiting Monet’s garden is like a biography in disguise.
My mom gave me this book when I was 12, and ever since then I have been hooked on Impressionist art. To this day, Monet is still one of my favorite painters. I remember going to the art museum in Chicago shortly after reading this book. I was amazed that I could stand in front of his oil paintings with nothing between me and his work but air. Just looking at the cover of this book brings me back to a loving, joyful time of discovery and wonder in my life.
I read this over and over when I was a kid and I hope my copy of it is somewhere in my parent's basement.
This is the book that inspired me to go to Europe! Yep! A children's book that I happened to catch a review of in the paper. Bought it that day. Booked my trip a year later! Magical, engaging story that teaches a lot about Monet throughout it! Very good book! A must read for a young artist in your family.
Beautiful book!
True to the point that I'm not sure why anyone made up Linnea and Mr. Bloom, because this book would work much better as a straightforward nonfiction book.Something else that rubbed me the wrong way as I read the book was the formatting of text and pictures.
I think that this imbalance of dense, small text with advanced vocabulary and large pictures with illustrations that seem to belong to a younger audience would be uncomfortable for many kid readers.
Perhaps it's for adults who want to force a kid they know to read an 'educational book'.
I loved this book! It's a great resource to teach children about Monet, impressionism, and plants.

Linnéa und Blümle reisen nach Paris um auf den Spuren des Malers Claude Monet zu wandern.
Liebevoll illustriert und mit Fotos bebildert bekommen Kinder und Erwachsene hier einen Einblick in das Schaffen und Leben des Impressionisten Claude Monet.
Ganz nebenbei, in eine kleine Geschichte eingewoben, erfährt man hier etwas über seine Maltechnik, wie seine Bilder wirken, die Schönheit seines Gartens mit dem roafarbenen Haus und das auch ein großer Maler die meiste Zeit nicht immer finanziell auf rosaroten Wolken gebettet war.
Weil man sich einen ersten und leichten Einblick in das Leben Monets verschaffen möchteFazit: Dies Buch ist, zumindest für mich, ein kleines Kunstwerk.
This story has three strands: One addresses Monet's art, illustrating some of his paintings and introducing a few techniques he used to capture the feeling of a moment in time.
The third is the fictional story of a young girl who visits Paris with a retired neighbor and visits museums and, of course, Monet's home.
This neighbor happens to be a male.
I wasn't comfortable with the idea that a little girl would go to Paris with a man and share the room.
I'm sure the author gave this some thought; I wonder why she decided on a male.The art, which I love, is by Lena Anderson.
I loved this book! I read it to myself as our girls played, but I will look for it at the library and hope to read it to them too. It's a bit long, especially if you have children with short attention spans, but it weaves a wonderful tale around an homage to the famous painter. It really makes me want to visit his home and garden.This book was selected as one of the books for the May 2014 - Gardening discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
I enjoyed the combination of fiction and nonfiction as you read of Linnea's trip to see Monet's garden. It includes photographs from Monet's life, Monet's paintings, and illustrations of Linnea and her neighbor Mr. Bloom. I found the text quite interesting. My children were fascinated by page 8 and 9 where you can see what Monet's water lily looks like up close...a splotchy blob of paint...and what it looks like from a distance. While we have gone to two local art museums, they have not had the privilege yet of seeing any of Monet's work in person.
I have it from high school when I was introduced to Monet and my mom bought it for me. She continues to buy kids books for me, even though I have my little people. Read it to 5 year old Lucy and a 4th grader that was visiting this summer, and they both adored it!
I both find this book good and the worst book of all time.Have my reasons.
This is a great book for children in elementary school or adults who want to learn a little about Monet or the Impressionist work! It also helps explain his unusual family for the time.
We loved this book. Now we want to go to Paris & Giverny.
Lovely, but not much else.
O carte minunată pentru copii, care poate fi cu adevărat admirată și apreciată doar de adulți.
Clasificarea literaturii în funcție de vârsta cititorilor presupune de obicei trei categorii: copii, adolescenți, adulți.
Cred că clasificatorul trebuie neapărat să includă o categorie de cărți dedicată copiilor care să fie citite împreună cu părinții.
Pentru copiii care nu sunt pasionați de pictură, aventurile Linneei nu sunt decât o nouă serie de evenimente curioase din viața unei fetițe.
I bought this book years ago for my daughters and I had a yen to reread it and have it available for my grandkids. I searched everywhere and finally just bought a used copy. It arrived and entranced me all over again. Unfortunately, it's not even close to something I could read to H and Z, but this time I tucked it away with my art books so I will know where it is.Then, of course, I found my original copy. Ha! One for each grandchild!
Mała dziewczynka wyrusza z mamą i psem za miasto, do ogrodu, w którym spotyka miłego starszego pana, jak się okazuje - samego Claude'a Moneta, który z zamiłowaniem pielęgnował swój ogród i malował jego fragmenty. Historia pięknie prosto opowiedziana, zilustrowana fragmentami obrazów malarza, na które nałożone są postacie głównych bohaterów.
I wasn't sure if I was going to like this book but having experienced some of what Linnea has, I ended up loving it...her story of how she and her neighbor love Monet and flowers and then they travel to Paris and Giverny. A really nice story with lots of good information, great pictures too and recommendations of things to see and do.
An enchanting introduction to one of the world's favourite artists. The journey undertaken by Linnea can easily be retraced when visiting France.It is a great way to introduce children to Impressionism, this particular artist, and ready them for visiting a gallery.Thoroughly recommended.
A lovely idea, but it didn't shine as much as I thought it would. There isn't a great deal of substance to it, perhaps because of its oversimplification at times. It has made me want to revisit Monet's garden, however.
