https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2898847-letters-from-england
An extremely charming travel book by the excellent Czech writer. Capek writes about the eccentricities of British life in the 1920s. He deplores British food, disparages the rain and the traffic and criticises the insularity; but he praises the countryside and some of the quaint traditions... Capek was a very humourous writer but also a very humane one. He always supports the underdog. He also has some genuinely profound things to say on nature, aesthetics and imperialism. His sketches are superb and his wistfulness is moving.
This "drawing in" creates a great deal of the charm of the book.Second Impression: The difference between manners and caring.Also charming is Capek's obvious love of humanity, even when humans act in ways he finds bewildering.
I do not think badly about Capek, but feel sorry for how the world has changed.Fifth Impression: I love these crazy sentences.The run-on, joyous, whimsical, semi-colon filled sentence constructions may be the most charming aspect of the book.
[...] It is perhaps through sheer taciturnity that the English swallow half of every word and then the second half they somehow squash; so it is difficult to understand them.
I used to travel every day to Ladbroke Grove; the conductor would come and I would say: 'Ledbruk Grrov.' '...??
Eh?' 'Hevhuv Hev!' 'Aa, Hevhuv Hov!' The conductor would rejoice and give me a ticket to Ladbroke Grove.
I shall never learn this as long as I live.'I was also amused by this description of George Bernard Shaw: 'He is immensely tall, thin and straight; he looks half like God and half like a very malicious satyr'
A joyful read with some timeless observations from the great Czech writer. Predates many other tours of England, most famously J B Priestley, but contrary to its title also covers Scotland (at his most poetic), Wales and very dismissively (but mostly due to recommendation of his English friends) Ireland. In fact the latter provides an interesting commentary on the 'Irish Question' as seen from the 1920s. There are many comments on the English that seem, 90 years on, no less relevant. Worth finding and reading, for it is a quick and pleasurable read.
Ágil y preñado de humor, y con el toque entrañable de Capek. Me fascina (me fascina y me da mucha envidia, claro) cómo es capaz de escribir sobre la esencia profunda de Inglaterra y Escocia y hacer reír al mismo tiempo.
Čapek has an astute eye leading to elegant epistles from 1930s England: a kind of travelogue about habits. As a recent immigrant, I loved it.
During his tour of Britain in 1924, Čapek sketched his impressions in a set of lively and whimsical illustrated vignettes .
What interests him is not History or data but people and environment: the silent gentlemen reading newspapers in their club, the speakers in Hyde Park, the old trees or the vast green lawns.
He also pursues his own literary pilgrimage, having a guess at where Stevenson’s Hispaniola set sail in Bristol, contemplating the same lake as Worsworth in Grasmere and being disappointed not to find any trace of Sherlock Holmes in Baker Street.What makes those letters so truly engaging is the persona of Čapek with his candid, almost child-like voice.
Část o gentlemenech byla naprosto úžasná. Cituji:"Gentleman, to je odměřená sloučenina mlčení, ochoty, důstojnosti, sportu, novin a počestnosti. Dvě hodiny vás dožírá váš protějšek ve vlaku tím, že vás neuzná za hodna pohledu; najednou vstane a podá vám váš kufřík, na který jaksi nemůžete dosáhnout."
he's one of the biggest writer of 20th century...his talent of describing the whole life in England is breath taking
Y estas Cartas inglesas son seguramente uno de los libros de viajes más deliciosos que hemos llegado a leer.
En esa visión tan checa (fragmentaria), en la que la vida es una suma de pequeñas piezas que dan algo más grande, para Čapek Inglaterra es aquello que le hace detenerse y, por qué no decirlo, sonreír irónicamente frente al descubrimiento.
Todo está hecho de piedra, quizás hasta las personas.Visita Edimburgo (la ciudad más bonita del mundo, pero en la que nada parece estar en su sitio) y también Glasgow (que es todo lo contrario: el horror industrial).
Nic, nic vlastně; chtěla bych být maličká a stát zase v krámě starého Prouzy v Úpici, vyvalovat oči na černý perník, pepř, zázvor, vanilku a bobkové listí a myslet si, to že jsou všechny poklady světa a všechny vůně Arábie a všechno koření dalekých zemí, žasnout, čichat a pak si běžet číst Vernův román o končinách divných, dalekých a vzácných...
Neboť já, hloupá duše, jsem si je představovala jinak."Mizerných několik hodin mám odtud do Irska, ale řeknete, mám pro nic a za nic zahodit strašné tajemství, kterým je pro mne tato země obestřena?
Anything by Čapek is worth reading, but this was also relevant.
Čapek really did not care for England or the English--but he made a nice characterization out of it.
One point he makes is that while we might think of the English (especially in the time of the Empire) as global, they are actually the opposite.
(That is also true of the US people.) Čapek is horrified by the huge swaths of ugly urban poverty in East London, Liverpool and Glasgow, and the contrast with the rich upper-class.
Čapek makes many comparisons with his own people and small country.
A masterpiece indeed. Have on my real bookshelf. Čapek is a great classic.
Čapkovy postřehy z Anglie 20. let. Zábavné ale možná trochu povrchní.
For the drawings and the policemen, not the views on women's voices and the purple prose (which has dated awfully)
In many points very, very outdated travelogue. But interesting insight to both Czech and English mentality between the world wars. Some of it interestingly still persist :)
I found this book in a second hand bookshop in Canterbury this summer.It's a really lovely little travel book, amusing and interesting.
Classic, lyical outsider's point of view.
