https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1048940.Hold_the_Dream
Houses, rooms, people and clothes are described in the minutest particulars.The story is kind of predictable, has its moments, and has lots of repetition, in itself as well as of the first part.
The characters are not really interesting and really predictable, too, once they are established.
I mostly enjoyed reading it, anyway, like one enjoys watching a really bad TV series, just to know what happens next, even if you can predict it.
I did, however, skip over lots of the details further on, as I just couldn't take it anymore.
Just adding the book. Loved it many years ago when the subject and kind of characters still impressed my young soul :-)
DNF. will later.
well where can i start, i really loved the book , loved paula's charater what a strong wise woman can do how she loved her gra.
is that the story ended happily how i can ask for more ;)didn't like the fact of reading every little tiny detail about the clothes , weather , views ,etc...
it was very boring for me actually over all a woman can be as strong as man and even more.
a book that worth reading .
Love the Emma series! Great characters, history, and settings.
In some ways I enjoyed the second book much more than the first because the family really comes into its own in the present day, rather than looking back over 80 years as the first book does.
This is one I will read over and over again in the years to come - I must have read the book or more times already, but it doesn't lose its magic, and I look forward to reading the third book at some point in the future, to see how the story continues and what new treasures lie within the pages for me to find...
I adored A WOMAN OF SUBSTANCE (read it twice) but struggled through this book.
Emma was such a complex character in WOS that I expected waaay more of this book.
Whatever she accomplished in book 1was celebrated in this book ...idolised even....
but she never developed further.
Her handling of her offspring was spectacular when a certain event (that will not be spoiled) took place....
her children and grandchildren lacked depth of personality.
It got boring as heck after a while.I do adored WOS I expected to gobble up the sequels but after reading this, I could not read another.
I love Barbara Bradford and i like her style, Hold the dream conveys her style clearly, the characte
This is a 6 book series but I only read 5.
I tried to read the 1st book, Woman of Substance, no way could I get into that book.
I actually read the 4th book 1st & really like it.
So I tried to start from the beginning & went to the 2nd book.
I just loved this series.
They are about a very wealthy family & friends.
Good love stories & the drama in thier lives with Johnathon.
I hope that the author writes one last book, if you read this series you will know what I am talking about.
Hold the Dream was such a delightful read !This book was so wonderful, intriguing and such a pleasur
This book was just as interesting as Woman of Substance, the first book in this series.
Barbara Taylor Bradford knows how to keep a story going.
There comes a time when the family begins to break apart and turn on Emma.
Emma pursues her life regardless of the heartbreak she endures with this family breakdown.
She grooms Paula to take over for her when the time is right.
Many of Emma's grandchildren remain true to her and Emma has a very fulfilling life.
I can't wait to get started on the next book in this series!
This excellent book of Barabara's tayolor is so thrilling ans so whelmed with suspense... It never ceases surprising you, even after deceiving you with some predictable events.. This book, is a real thought and emotions provoking, greatly written by a great woman.. She's born to write.. luckily this year... one of the best books Ive read.. well I haven't had the chance to read the first Emmas Harte saga.. I started with hold on the dream and to be the best... so excited to read the other books of this legendary series
This story was like a script for a slow tv soap opera. There was 300 pages of story spread out in 750 pages. slow and boringInteresting, the story set in the late 60s/early 70s could have been set in today times with just the switch of landlines and cell phones and replace telefax with emails or text messages
Good, but as usual with Barbara Taylor Bradford, it takes forever for anything to happen. And enough with the description of the clothes.
One of my favourite books in life. So simple yet so captivating
2nd in series, read because book club was reading the 4th book
I read A Woman of Substance, the first book in the Emma Harte series, a few months ago, and I loved it.
I wasn't sure the second book would measure up, but it certainly did.
It was much of the same corporate intrigue and family drama that populated the first book in the series.
I don't know why, but these books give me a nice, cozy feeling when I read them.
But I find it enjoyable to read about the joys and sorrows of the Harte clan.
Recommended for those who like corporate intrigue, family drama, or 80's-style writings (see above).
I would have given it another star except that the author chose to make Emma pass away, instead of having her live to be 100 as I really thought she would.
The saga is just not the same without her, and for that reason I lost all interest in reading the next book.
I also got to learn a bit about business deals, what goes on in a coroner's court and something of horse racing, too, so you're not just reading a typical family saga.
Ms. Bradford gives you drama, without going overboard with melodrama.If she had just kept Emma around a bit longer.....
Definetly not as good as the first one.
Like the first book this is really long.
A lot of detail in the begining and then a real quick wrap up in the end.The storyline was sort of all over the place.
The story of the grandkids brought in too many characters.
There were Emma's grandchildren then Blackie's grandchildren.
She had cousins hooking up with each other.She tried to bring in a mystery with the murder but then she never followed through.
All the suspisions were left open ended.
I have two more books left in the series.
I feel like I should though.
This slow but steady novel was really relishing.
Just like after enormous rides of bumpy and thrilly roller-coasters, one settle in a ferris wheel.
No matter how thrill lover one is, he always enjoy those therapeutic rides.
As for the story, it was really slow at the start, then it started get interesting every minute.
I really liked the character of Shane O'Niell, it was really interesting and well conveyed.
Nearing the end, the story had some strange and in my opinion unnecessary twists.
But all's well that end's well.
Overall it was a good story.
Read Woman of Substance again after many many years and now ready to tackle the series. Lots of repetition in Hold the Dream in case one forgot since Substance. Like the characters as adults. Sad loss of older characters but realistic as they can't all live forever. Enough mystery and conflict to keep me guessing. Agree with reviews that this book had too much detail of places, clothes, furnishings, but I'll keep reading as I'm Interested in the characters and how the author moves them into the future.
Love a series and this one is the summer of 2012 for sure. I did have a series sob near the end when death affects the family, but it had to be when people are in their 80's in a book that is over 600 pages. So many characters...it's a good thing there was a family tree because I did have to refer occasionally. A bit soap opera in moments but heck the book was written in 1985 and soaps were still in. A good escape, I love Emma and the old fashioned love story...divorces...death...children...travel...all making good fiction.
The only thing I don't like about these books is the tendency of the author to use big words when a simpler word would have done just as well. I find myself using the "look up" feature on my Nook much more when reading this series. I am enjoying finally reading the whole series in order and one right after the other after not having been able to do so before. The story of Emma Harte and the legacy she left behind is touching and enthralling and soon you wish that you were a part of her family.
This is the second in the Emma Harte series. Emma has done quite well for herself and her family. She has lost some very important people in her life, Paul the man she adored and by whom she had her favorite child Daisy, Winston and Frank her beloved brothers. This book brings the next two generation of the Harte family. I enjoyed this book very much, hope you do also. Can't wait to start the next one.
This is another beautiful historical romance/saga series of the Emma Harte clan, the second after A Woman of Substance. This deals with a lot of family drama and suspense with plenty of romance and love and intrigue. Last week, I've read To Be the Best, which is the fourth book, after Emma's Secret. I'll read those two books next year. I'll be starting to read Unexpected Blessings, the last book in the series, tomorrow. A beautiful read.
Hmmmmm...all I can say is that the first one in this series was pretty good. Read it about 3 years ago. It followed the life of Emma Harte from her teenage years until she is 60 years old. This one picks up where the other left off when Emma is 60 years old and is so confusing since all of her kids and grandkids either hates each other or is sleeping with each other but they are all related. Not worth the 600 + page read. Made it until about page 200 and decided to call it quits.
The continuation of the Harte Saga continues where Emma Harte's favourite granddaughter Paula has taken center stage. We get to follow her in this book and the plot thickens. I can highly recommend this book too. The tv adaptation starred yet again Jenny Seagrove and Deborah Kerr, but this time Jenny plays Emma's granddaughter Paula. As Emma's longlife friend Blackie O'Neill we see Liam Neeson and as his grandson Shane we see 7th Heaven's Stephen Collins.
Another epic saga of the rich and faaabulus (needs to be said with a nasal annhhh sound for full effect). This follow-up to the wonderful Woman of Substance novel is a bit more predictable. I felt like I knew how the story was going to unfold, and I did. But I surely enjoyed the journey. BTB's books are a great escape for me. Fabulous wealth and jewels abound alongside tragedy and great challenges, and good will always win.
Sequel to 'Woman of Substance'. Emma is 80 and has been training her grandchildren to continue her vast business empire. Fairly readable although I wasn't very interested in the business side; rather spoilt by too many flashbacks to the previous book, pulling in unecessary details that simply filled space.
Well, I'm only a few chapters in, but so far it's just as well-written as A Woman of Substance, the first book in the Emma Harte saga by Barbara Taylor Bradford. It's very much a girl-book, and very Jane Eyre, Wuthering Heights-ish.
