https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/108386.Sharpe_s_Gold
It's a treasure hunt and everyone's invited!British army officer Richard Sharpe is sent on a secretive mission in Spain, almost a fool's errand, to obtain rumored gold.
Many of the nation's involved in the Napoleonic wars are represented in this ally-vs-ally-vs-enemy-vs-etc book, even the Germans show up for some fun!Sharpe's Gold is fun and would be considered inconsequential but for Sharpe meeting (view spoiler)[the love of his life, (hide spoiler)] Teresa Moreno, who would (view spoiler)[go on to a storied career as a partisan called "The Needle".
However, Sharpe's Gold is one of Cornwell's more "inventive" novels.
Whereas others in the series rely upon actual history for the backdrop of Sharpe's adventures, Sharpe's Gold is almost entirely fabricated.
Real history wrapped up in entertaining fiction.The real history is the events that happened at Almeida in Portugal 1810.The British army is struggling to maintain a foothold in Portugal and is running out of money.
If the army is to survive it need gold and lots of it.
There is a horde of Spanish gold that the British army has heard about and the army decides to help themselves to it.
Sharpe has been given orders to get the gold come what may.Sharpe has to contend, not only, with the French but also the Spanish guerrillas who won’t give up the gold without a fight.When Sharpe is on a mission, the only thing that will stop him is death it’s self.
The fate of the British armies in Portugal is in Dire Straits (I've always wanted to find a way to insert the name of this rock band in one of my reviews) , and General Wellington's last resort is to send the unorthodox but highly effective Sharpe deep into enemy territory, where he has to retrieve about half a ton of gold in Spanish doubloons.Both the ownership of the treasure and its role in salvaging the British troops remain questionable.
Sharpe has to fight both the French patrols and the Spanish guerrilleros as his small band of riflemen is chased across the no man's land between the larger armies.
Aside from the abrupt ending to an already short novel, there are inconsistencies with the consistency of Cornwell's writing and characters.
How come none of the partisans were shot by Hagman and his group when they left the village?.There's a drastic difference between the first set of books that were written and the rest of the books that were inserted into the story later.
The later books are polished to perfection and Sharpe's character is infinitely more compelling.
It makes one wish that Cornwell had perfected his trade on some other series before coming to Sharpe.
This is in the care of El Catolico, a devious and selfish Spanish partisan, who wants it for himself.
I got the sense that Cornwell did intend Kearsey to be a traitor, but a shrewd editor told him that Sharpe had faced a few too many traitors in a row, so he rewrote the character a bit – though El Catolico is, in some ways, a traitor, since he’s nominally a British ally – so Cornwell got a turncoat in after all.
4.5 rounded up, clearly one of Cornwell's earlier books.
Войната на Иберийският полуостров продължава с пълна сила.
Шарп е доволен - докато има война, има място и за него в британската армия.
Все пак, минала е повче от година, но повишението му в капитан е още непотвърдено от щаба на армията в Лондон.
Но за да го изпълни, му трябва злато, много злато!И тогава настъпва часът за Шарп да е полезен на своя генерал и да спечели войната за него.
Ловът за съкровището от испанско злато е открит и никой не може да го спре в преследването му - нито французите, нито испанските партизани, нито собствената му армия!
Защото това е "Златото на Шарп"!
Reading these books makes me want to watch the series again, it's one of those periods of time that I am drawn to. Love the whole Napoleonic wars era, though I prefer Nelson to Wellington. Anyway back to the book, it's still the peninsular wars with Britain trying to retain their foothold in Portugal and Spain. Things are going badly and funds are low, but there's a hidden stash of gold that could come in handy if only we can get our mitts on it. There's also a man Wellington has in mind for the job.
Taking place in 1809, this is the ninth book chronologically in the Richard Sharpe series.
In my opinion it is the worst of the nine.Sharpe, as usual, has more problems with his own people than with the French enemy.
While these are elements in all of the previous books in the series, in this tale they come across as formulaic rather than spontaneous thereby ruining the fun and the suspense.If I could, I'd give the book 2 and 1/2 stars rather than three: "barely worthwhile reading".
Another enjoyable romp through the Napoleonic Wars. This time, not so much as fighting the French as the Spanish Guerrillas. After all, even your allies get a little upset when you steal, sorry, rescue their gold. Even if it is at the command of the Duke of Wellington! It all climaxes with Sharpe becoming trapped in a siege and being ordered by the city commander to return the gold to the Spanish and Sharpe's novel solution to his problem...
So far my least favorite of the Sharpe series. I'll avoid spoilers, but Sharpe's solution to his seemingly intractable problem was appalling and indefensible. Cornwell did a poor job of selling the problem and the solution, and so I think I'll just have to forget this ever happened if I'm to enjoy the rest of the series.
Sharpe’s Gold by Bernard Cornwell is another enjoyable volume in Cornwell’s Napoleonic War series featuring our hero, Richard Sharpe.
To my way of thinking, Sharpe doesn’t linger long enough on the ramifications of his act, which kills hundreds, in order to release himself from the order of a superior officer so that he can fulfill the order of another, Wellington.
The general had ordered Sharpe to take his company into enemy territory and steal 16,000 gold coins from the Spanish, ostensibly a British ally.
Wellington insists the gold is needed to save the war for the British.
The second book in the series - chronologically the ninth - Sharpes Gold tells of a daring mission behing enemy lines to retreive a hidden caches of gold in the Portuguese mountains.For anyone who has seen the TV adaptation, be warned: the novel only holds a passing resemblance.
As usual for Cornwell, real events are woven into the plot of the storyline: in this case the destruction of Almeida that occurs towards the end of the novel, althogh, I have to say, that I felt this portion of the story was almost 'tacked on' an not really necessary.So, to sum up: Sharpe is sent on a dangerous mission, ends up fighting both his own side and the enemy, gets the girl and eventually succeeds in his mission.

This came after Sharpe's Eagle, so a hard act to follow. It does a pretty good job, but you only realise Bernard Cornwell's winning formula when you realise there's a crucial bit missing, and that's a massive battle at the end that only turns into a victory thanks to Sharpe. Plenty of other good bits in this one though, nice to see Tom Garrard again after India.
Hardly a revelation at this point that this series is a decent read, with some interesting history tacked onto a somewhat improbable hero.
- - At the beginning of the book, General Wellington (real guy) tells Sharpe that he needs to go get some gold that is in Spanish territory - but doesn't tell him why.
Geez...- - Next, the "hero" needs to leave a friendly fort so he can finally deliver the gold to Gen Wellington (who, per the story at least, apparently has no idea that governments can go into debt to pay for goods or services...).
So get this: Sharpe, our historical fiction hero extraordinaire, decides to give 1,000 (of 16,000 total gold coins) to his Spanish girl friend and ends up keeping an unspecified amount for him and his men.
Captain Sharpe is ordered to bring back Spanish gold to pay for the war in Portugal.
Šārps savā elementā: Velingtons sūta viņu ar brašajiem strēlniekiem īpaši svarīgā misijā, no kuras, pēc viņa vārdiem, atkarīgs, vai britu armija noturēsies Portugālē.
Arī sērijai "Šārpa zelts" nav nekāda sakara ar šo grāmatu.), spāņu partizāni, kas it kā ir britu sabiedrotie, bet dažbrīd tomēr nav utt.
(view spoiler)[ Ja jau reiz britu virsnieks, kuram nav informācijas par slepeno uzdevumu, nelaiž Šārpu laukā no cietokšņa un pavēl atdot spāņu zeltu spāņiem, ko mēs darām?
(hide spoiler)] Bet, godīgi sakot, šis risinājums krietni pabojāja manu prieku par sēriju, ko gan droši vien pamazām turpināšu lasīt.
Bet citiem lasītājiem noteikti neiesaku sākt lasīt ar šo grāmatu.
Typical Sharpe book.
Of course, her fiance is the evil villain that must be confronted, just like every other Sharpe novel.
Here Sharpe is musing on how poor a swordsman is, yet as far back as Sharpe's Tiger he is portrayed as an expert even though that book is supposed to be a decade earlier than this.
This is the problem series that are not written in chronological order.
His earlier works are incredibly weak but his later writings are better and I guess you just have to slog through books like this to get to the better ones.
Reads like a historical napoleon-era western.
In this story the characters get more flesh around their bones and everything comes together more --in a third book Sharpe's Escape it seems that not only shit is together, it also smells and looks and sounds awesome -but no more of that quite yet.
This one is a good western kind of story written before that, and very good in it's genre and outside of it.
Love interest in this story seems very identical to love interest in the first book I read, but what the hell...
1810; French invade Portugal.
Massive explosion at fortress at Almedia on Spanish boarder.
Fierce partisan fighting and brutality between French and Spanish & Portuguese.
Wellington builds a defensive "Line of Torres Vedras" protecting Lisbon and escape route for English.
Use of natural terrain barriers and defensive structures, considered one of the great military defenses/structures in history.
Stops the French, who must evacuate Portugal due to starvation and lack of supplies.
Wellington will follow French into Spain...With Wellington outnumbered, the bankrupt army's only hope of avoiding, collapse is a hidden cache of Portuguese gold.
Once again Richard Sharpe and his faithful companions take on a seemingly impossible task at the request of General Wellington.
He has to deal with Spanish Partisans who claim the gold for themselves, as well as British officers who don’t know or understand the urgency of Sharpe’s task.
The story is typical of the author’s style as he takes the reader into the reality of battle with all of the sights, sounds, and smells.
Even Sharpe suffers a series of injuries that slow him down at times but do not deter him from achieving his goal of taking the gold to his General.
I enjoy military history anyway, so it's always interesting to read Cornwell's books because they do a great job of bringing famous real characters and events to life as they are interwoven with his fictional characters.
I downgraded my rating a bit though because I felt like the ending was rushed, almost as if he got tired of writing it and just wanted to wrap it up quickly.
The book does get graphic at times, like all the Sharpe novels I've read, but this one was less so than others.
This book is typical for the Sharpe series. Sharpe is sent into French held territory with his company to retrieve Spanish gold needed for the war effort. In addition to the French he also encounters problems with the allies of the British, the partisans. It is a classic Sharpe story, displaying his reliance on his instincts, flare for tactics and his characteristic bravery. The normal cast of characters is included. We also meet a woman who I expect will be a recurring character.
Richard Sharpe is the 'oo7' of the Napoleonic Wars. There is always an impossible mission and a beautiful girl. And, like James Bond, he always completes the mission and gets the girl ...... sort of! The girl always finds someone rich and powerful and leaves Sharpe alone again -- until the next adventure that is! Frederick Davidson, the narrator, is superb. He makes these stories come alive. Great historical fiction.
Another great rip roaring adventure in the Sharpe series. Always enjoyable and thrilling.Set in the Peninsular War - Sharpe has to rescue a hoard of gold in hostile territory and of course there is a beautiful girl and his riflemen. I also like the way Cornwell explains the historical background and sets out where he has tweaked history to suit the story.
I love these travels via the fictional Sharpe with the real Duke of Wellington’s military career, but this installment was very canned. As usual Sharpe is on a difficult mission in Wellington's service, falls for a beautiful woman in the orbit of a villain, defeats the villain and wins the woman, and completes the mission. There was more of that and a lot less historical action than usual.
Once again superman Sharpe is unbeatable in the Peninsular War. As usual, he beats all his enemies (the French, the Spanish, other members of the British army), gets the girl (briefly) and saves the day. It's utter rubbish, but I love it.
Sharpe's Gold starts off much quicker than the first published book and quickly finds its groove. The pace of the book was good and held my interest all the way to the end. I think it is better than Sharpe's Eagle which was also a good book.
