https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107789.Heartbreaker
This book needed to have about 200 pages cut.
He glanced over the usual club news and the smattering of announcements—two births, three engagements, and a wedding—and then he found his favorite column, called “About Town.” The headline was always the same: the bingo game.
Tom was suspicious that the society editor, Lorna Hamburg, secretly had a crush on Rabbi Dave, a widower, and that was why the bingo game was so prominently featured in the paper.
Why the fuck do I need to know so much about the damn news paper?
To protect his sister Laurant, he drags in his best friend and top-notch FBI agent Nick Buchanan to act as her bodyguard while local police and the FBI work on luring out the killer before he strikes again.Throughout the story, there’s a simmering attraction between Laurant and Nick, and it doesn’t truly manifest until much later in the story, which I like since I’m a fan of slow-burn romances.
The romance was a pretty minor aspect, but the book had just enough to get me giddy and invested in Nick and Laurant as a couple.However, there were also a few things that didn’t work for me and made the story drag a little.
I am glad I finally got that nudge from the Julie Garwood group on Goodreads, because what most of what I love about her historical book is here in Heartbreaker.
The poor girl never got a chance to make a good life for herself.I also loved the secondary characters like Tommy, Laurant's brother, Noah, an FBI colleague of Nick's who is absolutely shameless, and the inhabitants of the small town of Holy Oaks.
But despite those things, I enjoyed reading it and I am glad to find more Julie Garwood characters to follow.
Mmmm. It was OK but didn't make the four or five star mark for me. I was on holidays and dipping in now and again to the book. Maybe if I had read it in one or two sittings it would have worked better. It felt a bit dated and old fashioned at times. Sometimes that works for me but not really this time.Sorry for the short review, but I finished this a while back ...
Montgomery Clift in Alfred Hitchcock’s 1953 “I Confess.”★★★★☆ (This is a review of the audiobook.) I’ve heard Tanya Eby read before and thought she delivered nice performances; however, I wasn’t thrilled over her narration in this one.
Especially her supposed subtle “French” accent for Laurant Madden, the heroine who grew up in a French convent.
Her differentiation of characters wasn’t terrible, but I’ve heard her do better.
The psycho was just a tad too perverted for me, but I was expecting it.The story starts off with Father Thomas Madden, a Catholic Priest, who hears the “confession” of an evil man.
So, who should Father Thomas call to protect his beloved Laurant?
Meh... It passed the time, but lacked the charm of her historical romances. Maybe she gets more in the groove in later volumes?Audio was average.
Well, it was interesting, but it didn't made me rave.The romantic part of the story between Nick and Laurant was lukewarm and didn't made me feel the fizz. It developed toward the end with one sex scene and soon after the usual "I'm bad for her, so I'll leave" trope. I didn't feel the love... sorry..The most interesting part was the suspense part. And I'm glad, because this is mainly a suspense/crime novel.Some tedious parts that could have been avioded, but that I didn't hate.So, summing all up it's a solid 3 stars!
While I usually like mystery/suspense books, this one felt too formulatic and predictable: girl is target of crazy killer, agent acts as bodyguard, girl and agent hook up.
The last 15% picked up and got a bit better, which is why I'm squeezing out 2.5 stars for the book instead of only 2.If you are looking for good romantic mystery/suspense, I'd recommend the I-team series by Pamela Clare, In Death series by JD Robb, Mr Perfect & Cry No More by Linda Howard, Deadly series by Cythia Eden, Bodyguards/Black Ops by Cindy Gerard or Steele Street series by Tara Janzen over this book.
Then he makes his intentions known to kidnap, torture and murder the priest's sister, Laurent, next.
The priest contacts his best friend, local FBI super agent, Nick, and a full blown whodunit takes place as Nick fights to protect Laurent.It is fair to say that the first chapter of this book scared the unholy crap out of me.
I suspect this was because I listened to the audio version while commuting to work.
Laurent (a former European model) went from 30-something virgin to instant sex kitten.
I highly recommend the audio version if you can get your hands on it.
4.5 Stars! Another series/author on my must read list!
When compared to her historical romances, I would probably only give this 4 stars but compare to other romantic suspense, I think it holds up quite well.
Well enough to deserve 5 stars from me.
Father Thomas Madden waits in the confessional and a man comes in.
The Father's sister, Laurant Madden.
For such a dark theme, Ms Garwood added in some needed humor to keep the story from becoming too intense.
The main characters were both very likable and there were some really great secondary characters to truly added to the enjoyment of the story.
4.5 Holy Smokes Stars!! I completely enjoyed my reread of my very first Julie Garwood book! I loved Father Tommy, Nick Buchanan, Father Tommy’s sister Laurant, and Noah! Father Tommy is in the confessional when a madman confessed to murdering a women and tells him his beloved younger sister Laurant is his next victim. Tommy calls his childhood best friend FBI Agent Nick Buchanan to help keep his sister safe. Nick is on (a forced) vacation for a month and must take orders from the local head ag
I loved Father Tommy, Nick Buchanan, Father Tommy’s sister Laurant, and Noah!
Father Tommy is in the confessional when a madman confessed to murdering a women and tells him his beloved younger sister Laurant is his next victim.
Tommy calls his childhood best friend FBI Agent Nick Buchanan to help keep his sister safe.
Now it’s a game of cat and mouse and it’s up to Nick to keep the beautiful Laurant safe while trying to keep his distance.....I loved this book and all the characters.

Apesar de já conhecer esta autora e já ter lido alguns livros dela, nunca os li por ordem. Agora, ao saber o inicio desta série ainda gostei mais do que li.Prende-nos da primeira à última página.Senti por vezes que já sabia ao certo quem seria ao assassino, mas acabei por chegar ao fim com uma surpresa.Se gostam de policiais e não conhecem a autora, não podem deixar de ler.
Maybe if I hadn't loved Mercy so much this wouldn't have paled in comparison so badly, but Mercy has been one of my favourite classic romances (I call it 'classic' not because of when it was written, but because it was one of the first contemporary romances I ever read, all Mum's previous books were medieval, regency or western) for so long (over 10 years now) that I couldn't help but compare Nick and Laurant with Theo and Michelle.
I felt absolutely nothing for Nick and Laurant and I don't believe they actually felt anything for each other, either.
In the terms of romance suspense books...I have had better...
Picked this up after reading Fast Track, I have to say in one sense it's not as good. (Nick just isn't as hot as Aiden!) But, in one sense, it's much better. The mystery/suspense element is excellent. Considering this is Garwood's first foray into the contemporary romantic suspense that is excellent. I was a little disappointed in myself for not picking up on some plot points, though.
A true-blue romantic suspense. Some romantic suspense books are romances with suspenseful storylines, but this is one of those books that is a pure suspense books with a solid romance behind it. And overall it was a pretty good read. I enjoyed it.Good plot...well planned, enough twists, plenty of suspicion cast about. Good characters...likeable, interesting, fairly well developed. And a decent romance...not great, but substantial enough.If you like solid romantic suspenses, then give this one a try.
Relectura 2018: No recordaba casi nada de la trama (solo algunas escenas sueltas), así que lo he disfrutado casi como la primera vez. No obstante, creo que le pondría algo menos de nota en esta ocasión. Quizás un 3/5 (antes tenía un 4/5).
This book is something quite different from previous history romances and i loved it. Something fresh with captivating story and characters you must love.
Хареса ми динамиката на книгата, увличаща история написана с чувство за хумор и много добри диалози /страхотни мъжки закачки/.
След средата на книгата имах някакви подозрения кой е убиеца, но до последно не бях сигурна 🤗 Какво не ми стигна за 5* - малко ми беше претрупан края и историята на убиеца не ми се изясни напълно 🤔 Нещо ми липсваше в образа на Ник, Лорен беше повече по мой вкус 🤣 "...
не искаше да се отдели от Лорен.
Стоеше при нея по цяла нощ.
Ала каза на Пит и на мен, че щом тя се събуди, ще си вземе довиждане.
4.5*
Много интересна книга.. До последно не можех да разбера кой е "Разбивача на сърца" .. Заслужава си петте звезди..
When she gets there, she’s happy that the cancer has not returned, but her world is still torn upside down, for a murderer wants her, and for the kindhearted woman she is, she doesn’t understand how she can be the target of a madman.Nick Buchanan, an FBI agent and Father Tom’s best friend since they were kids, is supposed to be on vacation, but the second he hears from Tom, he heads straight to Kansas and vows to protect Tom’s sister.
When the suspect is arrested, I believed as Nick did - it had been too easy.

And his last name was Buchanan!Tommy and Noah were really interesting characters as well, I want to read more about them, especially Noah.The ending was thrilling and had me rushing with the excitement, I liked how Laurent was really strong to the end.And then Nick flew all the way to Paris.
(even though he is afraid of flying) Perfect.I think it would make a good movie.I do want to read the rest of the series, the Buchanans have always been interesting.But I just WISH JG would write Historicals again.This was a group buddy read.
Много са ми предвидими американските авторки, с малки изключения. Малко ги правят по калъп романите, има едни хубавци от ФБР и много умни, едни красавици неустоими и един ,двама лоши. И накрая хепи енд. Винаги богати , винаги първа класа. Не знам къде живеят тези хора, но със сигурност са далече от тяхната действителност.
I really enjoyed this book. I will definately give Julie Garwood another try.
Very disappointed in this. I was expecting so much more from ms Garwood.
This was not my favorite book of the series. It was still good but I liked some of the other books better.
