https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/386421.I_Was_So_Mad
She took it along to read to her little cousins while visiting and they loved it too.
Personally I also loved "Just Go to Bed!" but this one was great too!When my daughter was young, for a period of time her favorite words were "I'm so mad".
I wouldn't say that this is an educational book but it's a light-hearted look at how sometimes you can be so angry and then the next moment it just drops away.
I love the illustrations of Little Critter books.
The look on his face when he's mad is priceless.
It's just such a fun read and a great memory that my daughter and I both cherish.
Time changes and it changes very quickly. No mood is for forever. Sometimes we are joyous, sometimes we are displeased. What shouldn't be forgotten in time is that our moods can be changed for good. "I Was so Mad" is a story of a little critter who can teach the toddlers about their moods and how to keep a check on them.
"I'll run away tomorrow if I'm still so mad!"A little box full of cuteness!
I remember getting this because I wanted something for Julia to relate her feelings of anger to.
I wanted her to see that everyone gets mad and the correct and incorrect way to deal with her anger, etc.
A lot of things make Little Critter mad during the course of the story.
I speak from experience.) Little Critter has enough and decides to run away from home.
This will probably bring back a few memories for the adults and bring up some laughs for kids.
I suppose I didn't realize they were probably at the window having a grand time laughing at my expense.
This Little Critter story reinforces the lesson that even though there are times we are just "so mad" we feel like nothing is going right... we don't keep that mood forever! Luckily, Little Critter shows us how his mood can change.
We have always loved the Mercer Mayer books. One of my sons, when I was reading this to my grandaughter, said "Hey I remember those! I loved those stories!". The main character in this one wants to do various things that an adult in his family won't allow. He decides he will run away until his friends come along wanting him to go play ball. He decides he will run a way tomorrow if he is still mad. : )
I get mad a lot. Who doesn't, in this bleak and cruel world? This book helps. It's hard to stay so mad when you're looking at these cute tiny monsters. I hope my heart never gets so old that I stop loving Mercer Mayer.
One of the only books Orianna will sit still and actually let me read to her. I think it resonates with her current frame of mind. Mummy and Dad make her SO MAD sometimes. Luckily, like the little monster here she can be distracted.
Mercer Mayer and the Little Critter show us that it's okay to be "so mad"--it will pass.
Each students can relate to having different emotions and feelings even at a younger age.
3) Appropriate classroom use (subject area): I can use this book when it comes to getting out the seat all the time, and wanting to go to the restroom.
One way I would incorporate this book inside of my classroom is during reading time.
6) Whole class use (read aloud): I could reenact the book for my students and show positive and negative behavior and what is acceptable and not acceptable inside the classroom.
I read the story, "I Was So Mad" by Mercer Mayer to my little brother Wyatt.
In this story, Little Critter wants to do multiple things but his parents and grandparents tell him he cannot.
The main character of this story is Little Critter.
The other characters in the story are Little Critter's parents and grandparents.
Little Critter learns this when his mother finally tells him yes after he hears no all day long.I would recommend this story to anyone looking for a good book to read to a younger child.
I enjoyed reading this story to Wyatt.
I wanted to play with my little sister's dollhouse but Dad wouldn't let me.
I wanted to play hide-and-seek in the clean sheets but Grandma said, "No, you can't." I was just so mad.Premise/plot: Little Critter is having one of those days.
And the list of things he wants to do is LONG.
Rejecting his parents list of things he could do instead, he decides to run away...after packing up a hefty supply of cookies...but will his friends' invitation to play ball change his mind?My thoughts: I love, love, love Little Critter.
Little Critter's list of things he wants to do is quirky.
Basic plot: Little Critter wants to do all kinds of things that no one else wants him to do.Remember when you were a kid, and your parents told you "no" just a few too many times for your liking, so you packed up a change of underwear and some snacks and "ran away" (about halfway down the block before you turned around and came home).
That's Little Critter in this book.
It's cute, a chuckle for parents who remember those days, and hopefully a sympathetic tale for the little one who frequently blows up over hearing "no The situations are believable/typical for little kids, and the art is quality, as always.
Another Mercer Mayer book that all my kids enjoyed. My 5 yr old just adores Mayer and requests her books constantly. I read them at the breakfast or lunch table and even my 3 yr old twins get into them. We love trying to find the mouse and spider that seems to follow the main character around, they’re always doing silly things. Fun engaging themes that any child can relate to, a great addition to any children's library.
Everyone can relate to poor Little Critter, who is feeling grumpy one day as nothing seems to be going his way. The importance of friendship and how friends can help us when we are having a bad day is one avenue to explore with this story, as well as strategies kids can use to help them turn their days around and not get stuck in a bad mood like Little Critter was.
tight as hell...
In this wonderful book about feelings, Little Critter is having a not so good day. When he is told no to putting frogs in the tub, or no to painting the house, and even no to playing in the clean sheets, Little Critter declares, "I was so mad!". Young children can relate to Little Critter in this delightful book about learning to deal with emotions. Everyone has experienced being told no, and also the feelings that followed. Reading this book to young children can help them to recognize that learning how to understand their emotions is part of growing up!
As a child I loved the Little Critter series. In this book, I was so Mad, the little critter is angry because he wants to do things and is told he can't. This book, and the rest of the series, are great for individual reads. This one particular can be a lesson that you can't always do what you want.
I did not like this book. I don't think it would be appropriate to read aloud or even have in the classroom. It talks of running away if your mad and that is not a concept I want children to have in their heads.
LC is so mad when he is told that he can't do the things he wants to do. But he quickly forgets that he was mad when his friends ask him to play. Lesson not clear in the book, but the story easily leads in to topics of fleeting feelings and not making rash decisions when you are angry.
This book could be read to children when they're having a bad day to reassure that something good can come even when we're mad. This also would be good to read on the first day of school to tell everything the child may not do, but then we will have to tell them the things that they can do.
I love looking for the little hidden stories in the illustrations. Out of all the Little Critter books, this one is my favorite. It captures perfectly the frustration of a young child.
My daughter seems to really like book. It think it's something we both could relate to seems she seems to be having tantrums daily about little things.
Cute and relatable. Sometimes we just have grumpy days and want to run away.
Genre: Children's Picture Book - Fiction
I don't like Little Critter's disposition in the book, but this still remains one of my favorites.
Fantasy
Prose - Modern Fantasy In Class Read aloud
Excellent and very funny.
This was the very first book I learned to read when I was around 1 or 2. :)
