https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8745.Desert_Flower
Wow this book left me speechless. It leaves this lump in my throat and is at the same time very inspiring. With her story Waris Dirie brings awareness to the terrible tradition of female genital mutilation in Africa. Makes me feel so blessed to be living in a country where I an live a self-determined life.

But the wounds of the past, and especially the terrible experience of her genital mutilation, follow her in her new life, make her life difficult and prevent her from enjoying some things, though she is surely satisfied with what she has done.This eventually prompted her to tell her story and eventually write this book.
Η βία, οι αναγκαστικοί γάμοι, ο ακρωτηριασμός των γεννητικών οργάνων στην παιδική ηλικία είναι οι κύριες εκφράσεις αυτής της καταπίεσης.Από όλα αυτά προσπαθεί να ξεφύγει μία νεαρή γυναίκα και μετά από πολλές περιπέτειες τα καταφέρνει, φτάνοντας στην διεθνή καταξίωση στο χώρο του μόντελινγκ, κερδίζοντας έτσι ανεξαρτησία και σεβασμό.
Waris is an inspiration to all. She overcame so much to grasp a chance at true freedom. She is now a determined spokesperson against female genital mutilation. Very good book.3 Stars = I liked the book. I'm glad I read it.
Εγώ δεν θα πω πολλά. Δεν χρειάζεται άλλωστε.Αυτό το βιβλίο μ'έκανε να εκτιμήσω την ζωή που έχω τωρα. Πράγματα που εγώ θεωρώ αυτονόητα , αυτη η γυναίκα δεν τα είχε ποτέ στη ζωη της. Το δικαίωμα της επιλογής, το δικαίωμα στον έρωτα (είτε σαρκικό , είτε συναισθηματικό) και γενικα την ελευθερία. Αξίζει να το διαβάσεις γιατί μέσα απο την πολυτάραχη ζωή αυτής της γυναίκας θα δεις τη ζωή με άλλο μάτι.
Reading about FGM from Waris' experience( as a personal account of someone who had been subjected to it) was emotionally difficult yet I think to understand even a glimpse of what these women go to it is necessary to hear the story as they tell it.
Aside for being interested in Waris' life story I also found her personality fascinating.
Waris is a survivor and I admire her greatly for having the courage to talk about all the things that she so openly talks about in this book, from the FGM to fashion industry.
Potresna prica djevojke koja je prosla put od somalske nomatkinje i pastirice do supermodela i ambasadorice UN-a.
Knjiga nakon koje sam zahvalna sto sam rodjena tu gdje jesam iako divim se na hrabrosti i ustrajnosti Waris, iako citsjuci knjigu dozivjela sam neku vrstu kulturoloskog šoka jer su mi nepojmljive odredjene prakse i nacin zivota u Somaliji i da se to dogadja u 20.
stoljecu i nije fikcija nego stvarnost.
Sto se samog stila pisanja tice imam dojam da je imala veliku pomoc nekog urednika ili sicno, ali to ne umanjuje velicinu i stvarnost ove knjige.Divim se Waris zbog hrabrosti, iskrenosti i zstrajnosti.
Odmah, da ne bi bilo zabune.. Žena je mrak! Svaka čast na svemu postignutom u životu! Trebao bi biti više takvih na svijetu.. Svima bi nam bilo ljepše..I hvala joj što me podsjetila gdje živim! Ponekad neke stvari stvarno shvaćamo zdravo za gotovo.A knjiga.. Hm.. Sada ima 13 godina, pa onda ima 5, pa ima oko 9, pa ima tri, pa ima 11 i onda je manekenka, pa nakon toga ima 9 godina i onda 13.. :P Na momente mi je išla na živce i nikako mi nije bila simpatična. Eto.. :-/
Lo mejor del libro sin duda es la forma tan directa en que Waris narra su vida.
Esa forma tan directa de contar sus vivencias te hace meterte de lleno en la ella.
El punto central de esta historia, y la razón por la que Waris ha querido contarla es la ablación femenina.
Una práctica horrible y salvaje que a día de hoy se sigue practicando.
Y los capítulos en los que se habla de esta práctica son horriblemente duros.
Es sorprendente las cosas tan horribles que el hombre puede hacerle a la mujer.
Leeré sus otros libros sin duda alguna.
Όταν τελείωσα την ανάγνωση της συγκλονιστικής αληθινής ιστορίας της Waris Dirie, που μου πήρε μόνο μια ημέρα, καθώς δεν μπορούσα με τίποτα να το αφήσω από τα χέρια μου, σκεφτόμουν ξανά ότι σε πολλές περιοχές του κόσμου το φύλο μου υφίσταται εξευτελισμό και πνευματικά και σωματικά μαρτύρια, μόνο και μόνο επειδή είναι γένος θηλυκού. Ευχαριστούσα την μοίρα που με έφερε στην Ελλάδα και μεγάλωσα στην οικογένεια που μεγάλωσα συνειδητοποιώντας πόσο τυχερή είμαι. Το προτείνω!!
Inevitablemente me recuerda a "La masai blanca" y no lo digo solo por ser la biografía de una mujer y que la temática sea africana, también porque está escrito de manera corriente, informal, con sus propias palabras.
Es la biografía de una mujer somalí con mucha determinación, fuerte, con decisión y carácter, que no se ha dejado vencer por las adversidades y ha luchado para vivir una vida mejor.
Nos cuenta su vida desde la infancia y sus experiencias personales más destacadas, entre ellas la ablación o mutilación genital femenina, práctica que denuncia en este libro y contra la que sigue luchando activamente.Me ha encantado leer "Flor del desierto" y conocer la historia de Waris Dirie.
واریس دیری یک مدل بین الملی و سخنگوی حقوق زنان در آفریقا است که در دوازده سالگی مجبور به فرار از زندگی کوچ نشینی در سومالی شده است.
در این کتاب سرگذشت و حوادث تلخ و شیرین زندگی او از زبان خودش نوشته شده است.مانند بیشتر دختران آفریقایی واریس دیری در سن پنج سالگی ختنه شده است و خاطره تلخ این اتفاق و پیامدهای آن در زندگی وی باعث شده است که بعد از رسیدن به شهرت و موفقیت برای آگاه سازی جهانیان از این سنت وحشتناک و بیرحمانه اقدام کند.قسمتی از کتاب:مشکلاتی که از زمان ختنه شدنم گریبانم را گرفته بود میلیونها زن و دختر را در سراسر دنیا دچار خود کرده بود.
خدا مرا وقتی از خانه فرار کردم از دست شیر در صحرا نجات داد و از آن لحظه به بعد احساس کردم که برای من نقشه ای دارد.
Dirie's story really shocked me. I remember when I first heard of this book.. a teacher told us and I thought to myself...I have to read this book! I've read it two years ago. It's so heartbreaking knowing the world is so different in some places. Things, that really shouldn't happen to anyone, sadly DO happen.
Για το Readathon-2017: 26/26Στην κατηγορία "Μια βιογραφία ή απομνημονεύματα"Γυναίκα συγγραφέας 23/14I have no words.
Her Somalia narrative was intensely interesting, but her adaptation to the West I found less so – namely her climb in the fashion industry and her “marriage” to attain citizenship.
Let it also be said, for those critical of her lifestyle, that if she would not have departed Somalia, she would have been tending goats, been burdened with several children, likely would have been illiterate, and dominated by a much older man.The author does bring up a very significant subject – at the age of five or six – she suffered the abomination of female genital mutilation (FGM).
There is a lot to admire about Waris Dirie and her story.
Raised in a nomadic Somali family, apparently raped at age four and then mutilated in a female circumcision ritual at age five, Dirie bravely ran away from home at thirteen to avoid being married off to an old man.
Unfortunately I just couldn't warm up to Dirie as a narrator.
Dirie redeemed herself somewhat in my eyes with her commitment to activism, but I still felt I couldn't really connect with her.I thought Infidel, a memoir which covered similar ground, was a far superior book with a much more relatable and admirable narrator.
And the articles just opened this hole of misery and showed another side of her, the after effects of her life basically, that I hoped and till then believed she didn't have.
I don't know what she is doing now but I hope life has been good to her and her family.The only reason why I take one star off is because of the narrative.
Sometimes it was really irritating but on the other hand, it also makes sense: time means nothing for Waris Dirie.
واريس ماهي سياه كوچولوي خودمونه كه از بركه ش زد بيرون و ....
Waris Dirie, who was an international model, came from the life of a desert nomad in Somalia.
Deciding to make something better of herself, Waris learns British ways and joins an agency as a model, but she still has obstacles to overcome in order to find work.
Eventually Waris decides to speak up about what happened to her as a child; female genital mutilation, or FGM, an event that changed her life forever.This book was a mixed bag for me.
Dirie’s anecdotes about her life in Somalia, her struggle to understand the Western world, and her experiences with FGM varied from mildly interesting to fascinating.
Ljuta sam na običaje koji dozvoljavaju obrezivanje žena, ne razumijem kako je to moguće, tko je odlučio da žene moraju to prolaziti, tko je rekao da su one prljave ako nisu obrezane, zbog koga djevojke to i dan danas prolaze, umiru od infekcija kao posljedica običaja, ili cijeli život žive sa neizdrživom boli.
Plakala sam čitajući i znam da će mi ova knjiga još dugo biti u mislima, a ova predivna, mudra i hrabra žena zaslužuje samo dobro do kraja svoga života jer toliko je toga prošla i ostala čista i predivna.
شاید این کتاب، تنها کتاب 4 ستاره ای که همه باید بخونن و حسش کنن... همه ی همه ی همه.
Anne Russell wrote: “This is an easy read that gives one insight into female circumcision.
One finishes the book with an interest to learn more about the issue and how effective the work the UN has done.
Sad to admit, I had (OK, still have) a bit of prejudice against models, given the self-involved image they project in their media.
(OK, there’s a bit of sour grapes in there too.) But Dirie used her high profile to speak out against female genital mutilation (FGM) and, admirably, quit modeling to establish the anti-FGM Desert Flower Foundation and other humanitarian organizations.

بعضي از جاهاي كتاب اينقدر تحت تاثير قرار مي گيري كه دلت مي خواهد گريه كني.
خاطرات واريس ديري ، تلخ است و با زبان خود واريس بيان شده .
و يكي از تلخ ترين جمله هاي كتاب:" در بخشي از دنيا ما براي غذا تلاش مي كنيم و در طرف ديگر مردم پول مي دهند كه وزن كم كنند." .
ما با خاطرات واريس به سومالي به عمق بدويت در دنياي متمدن امروز مي رويم و با او به انگلستان ، ايتاليا ، آمريكا سفر مي كنيم و خاطرات دريچه اي تازه به روي ما باز مي كند.
Ein SEHR WICHTIGES Buch! Am liebsten würde ich es jedem in die Hand drücken, mit der wärmsten Empfehlung es zu lesen.
Γενικα δεν έχω πολλά να πω γι'αυτό το βιβλίο, μόνο ότι διαβάζεται με μια ανάσα, ότι σε κάνει να ονειρεύεσαι την Αφρική και να πονάς για κακουχίες που στο μυαλό κάποιων γυναικών είναι απλά η καθημερινότητα.#Readathon18 Ένα βιβλίο συγγραφέα από χώρα που δεν έχεις ξαναδιαβάσει (24/26)13/14 Women Writers
Παρ' όλα ταύτα, κάνει ότι μπορεί και τελικά, ελεύθερη πλέον ζει το όνειρό της, γνωρίζει την επιτυχία και παράλληλα, αποφασίζει να μοιραστεί με τον κόσμο την εμπειρία που της άλλαξε την ζωή και που σημάδεψε το σώμα και την ψυχή, προσπαθώντας να ευαισθητοποιήσει τον κόσμο ώστε αυτό το βάρβαρο έθιμο να πάψει.Η Waris Dirie μαζί με την Cathleen Miller δημιουργούν όχι ένα ακόμα μυθιστόρημα αλλά, την αποτύπωση μιας αληθινής, συγκινητικής και παράλληλα, τραγικής ιστορίας.
Η Waris δεν μοιράζεται μαζί μας την ιστορία της για να κερδίσει κάτι η ίδια αλλά, ολόκληρος ο κόσμος και πολύ περισσότερο, ο δικός της κόσμος, μέσα από τα σπλάχνα του οποίου γεννήθηκε.
Waris had an extraordinary story to tell but the narration left much to be desired.
The story left a bitter taste in my mouth.From page 15 to page 224, the narration is flat, flat, flat.
The one event that would lead to the peak of her story.
Let's blame it on the language barrier.
Or rather, let's not.
I'd like to believe that when you decide to write, especially an autobiography and your name is Waris, you get assigned a whole literary team.
Her's felt like a "basement bargain" team.
Marrying the Irish getriatic I was like "WTF", so out of character.
I love this book.
If there is no point of view from the inside all it looks like is a bunch of outsiders calling a group of people barbarians.
And if people do not listen, the practice simply continues.
This is one of those insider books.
Waris speaks out against FGM but she also shows and proclaims that she very much loves and respects her culture.What I also love about Desert Flower is that it deals with FGM without having the issue consume the entire book.
Waris was more than a victim of this traditional practice, much more.
وهي لـ ويريس داير.الرواية من القطع المتوسطة الحجم، في 430 صفحة.الرواية بأحداثها وتفاصيلها تعتبر جريئة في الطرح، حيث أن الكاتبة تحكي عن قصة حياتها إبتداء من طفولتها الحزينة في صحراء الصومال إلى أن أصبحت سفيرة للولايات المتحدة في نيويورك لمنع ختان الإناث.ابتدأت المؤلفة روايتها بإلقاء نبذة عن طفولتها، وكيف أن الصوماليون يعانون كثيراً في سبيل الحصول على لقمة العيش..
وكان أغلب محور الرواية يدور حول هذه النقطة- إجبار الفتيات والنساء الزواج من رجال لا يرغبن بهم في سبيل الحصول على عدد من عين معين من النوق !!- تعرض النساء للإغتصابتحكي المؤلفة هذه الأحداث.
