https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27695.Nine_Coaches_Waiting
It's not terrifically deep or mysterious, but it's well-written and a favorite comfort read, and my love for it is quite unreasonable at this point, so just realize that I'm likely to hurl insults or furniture at anyone who questions the excellence of this novel.Linda Martin, a young woman who grew up as an orphan, has been hired to be the governess of 9 year old Philippe de Valmy, the heir to the Valmy fortune, who lives in a luxurious but lonely chateau in the mountains of eastern France.
5 STARS Nine coaches waiting - hurry-hurry-hurry… What a blast from the past. Yes, this book was first published back in 1958. It reads a bit like a NA version of Nancy Drew.. or maybe a cross between Daphne du Maurier and Agatha Christie. Anyway, it’s a bit of mystery, and a bit of romance written in a very decadent and descriptive way. I loved the author’s writing style… the ongoing theme which included the title quote, and all of the subsequent quotes she used throughout the book to introduce
Anyway, it’s a bit of mystery, and a bit of romance written in a very decadent and descriptive way.
I loved the author’s writing style… the ongoing theme which included the title quote, and all of the subsequent quotes she used throughout the book to introduce each chapter.
I don’t want to go too much into the storyline itself, as I feel it is told much better by the author when it’s read first hand.
They don’t use names like that anymore… at least not often.I loved the main character, and her sense of fierce protectiveness for not only her charge, but for those she holds dear.
After a rather drab existence in an English orphanage Linda Martin is appointed governess to the nine-year-old owner of the Chateau Valmy in the French Alps. During little Philippe's minority the estates are being managed by his crippled uncle Leon, and Leon's handsome son Raoul. All seems delightful, but there are tensions below the smooth surface. One sunny afternoon a bullet is fired in the beechwoods ... and the tensions become terrors.  The main reason I wanted to read this book was the n
The main reason I wanted to read this book was the name "Sandra Brown" - she actually wrote the foreword ...
the book not only delighted readers but also defined the romantic suspense genre by artfully and seamlessly combining the elements of of mystery and gothic tales with a classic love story."
And we have Raoul.To quote Ms Brown ...
It's quite refreshing to read a book that is not dictated by throbbing cocks and multiple orgasms!!Linda was very protective of her young ward, Philippe and when it seemed his life might be in danger she did all she could to protect himI liked the writing style.
I have a good friend from Mexico City who sounds exactly like Wilmer Valderrama's character, Fez, from That 70's Show.
It's got comedy, romance, and action!" Though we definitely don't agree on what a certified "classic" is, his equation for good entertainment is right on par.
His guardians, although genteel and generous, lead Linda to think that there is something more to the situation than meets the eye.This isn't the most brilliantly written book out there, but I appreciated it for the same reasons I loved Rebecca.
It's definitely been read and loved by many students, that's for sure.
I am a sucker for poor-governess-gets-rich-master-of-the-mansion as much as the next person.The first 100 pages of the novel are quite good, where poor orphan girl from England is hired as a governess to live on a beautiful French estate and take care of a young heir.
I think Mary Stewart is a good writer of atmospheric settings.
This love interest is problematic, definitely with unresolved anger issues.
The relationship is problematic too.
Gah.Then the mystery, that really is a sloppy mess that often makes no logical sense.I don't really understand why this book is so well-loved.
Stewart appears to be a skilled writer who made some terrible plot choices in this novel.
Wondering where the "nine coaches" comes from?It was from a 17th century play,The Revenger's Tragedy. Oh, think upon the pleasure of the palace:Secured ease and state, the stirring meats,Ready to move out of the dishes,That e'en now quicken when they're eaten,Banquets abroad by torch-light, musics, sports,Bare-headed vassals that had ne'er the fortuneTo keep on their own hats but let horns [wear] 'em,Nine coaches waiting. Hurry, hurry, hurry! I'm not sure how many nods to the above drama the eru
Oh, think upon the pleasure of the palace:Secured ease and state, the stirring meats,Ready to move out of the dishes,That e'en now quicken when they're eaten,Banquets abroad by torch-light, musics, sports,Bare-headed vassals that had ne'er the fortuneTo keep on their own hats but let horns [wear] 'em,Nine coaches waiting.
And Mary Stewart's descriptive powers made me feel like I was in France.My first reading I gave this book 3.5★ I still feel very sorry (view spoiler)[ for William, (hide spoiler)] but I think the main problem I had on the first reading was I hadn't completely gone back to my retro roots.
♥ Read with the Madam, want to talk about author Mary Stewart?
Readers beware: what might be construed as mild spoilers follow.According to Mary Stewart's Wikipedia entry, Stewart "developed the romantic mystery genre, featuring smart, adventurous heroines who could hold their own in dangerous situations".
This novel is one of Stewart's "romantic mysteries", or as the Wikipedia article also classifies it, a "Gothic romance".
Part of the convention of mysteries is that there'll be a twist and part of the fun of reading them is identifying the twist and trying to work out whodunit (or whydunit, or howdunit).
I may even, at some point, read another of Stewart's novels.
Linda Martin, with roots in both France and England, was hired as a governess to the orphaned nine-year-old Philippe, the heir to the beautiful estate.
His paralyzed uncle, Leon de Valmy, runs the Chateau Valmy until Philippe comes of age.
Leon lost most of the things he loved in a tragic car accident, and his life revolves around his obsessive love for the Chateau Valmy.
There's a Cinderella feeling that runs through it with Linda, who spent years in an orphanage, meeting the tall, dark, handsome, and titled Raoul.
Fast cars racing around mountain curves replace Cinderella's pumpkin coach.
Resourceful and courageous young governess, check: Linda Martin, brought in from England to care for the estate’s orphaned heir, Philippe de Valmy, whose uncle Léon serves as trustee of the house and grounds until the boy comes of age.
Deception, deadly intentions, and dark family secrets, check (these, of course, won’t be spilled here).And given the cover of the musty old copy I borrowed from the library, I couldn’t help but feel there’s a bit of Nancy Drew thrown into the mix too:This isn’t quite the textured psychological study that Daphne du Maurier achieved in Rebecca—but I don’t believe that’s what Mary Stewart was going for.

I'm just stating for the record that whoever suggests this as a good gothic title is not quite in the right.The hero fits in with the stereotypical love interest who appears in gothic novels, surely, but he and the entire aspect of the relationship falls very short.
If I'd read the blurb preceding the novel before buying it, I would've realized I was going to be faced with a predictable romance and stayed away from the book.
I certainly didn't get a good feel for the relationship when our heroine, Linda, expresses her love in her inner monologue to the reader...after having known the man one night.
Nine Coaches Waiting, ★★★★★Linda Martin's father was English, but her mother French.
True they said they didn't want a governess who spoke French but, since she needs the job badly she goes as an all English teacher.
Stooping so low as to talk school girl French, which puts everyone into fits of laughter.Soon though she realizes that not all is as it seems, someone doesn't want her there and they will stop at nothing to get rid of her and Philippe, her little charge.
Philippe is my favorite character, I just loved him!
5 stars for suspense, Philippe, Linda, romance and plot.
That, along with the combined recommendations of Holly, Chachic and Angie (three people I trust more than most for recs) finally urged me to pick it up.I don’t have much previous experience with Mary Stewart – but let me tell you.
When my twitter status updated my currently reading status, the fabulous Deanna Raybourn said the following:“NO ONE can write more suspenseful pages about absolutely nothing than Mary Stewart–and I mean that as profound compliment.”Isn’t that delicious?
I absolutely can’t wait to dive into more of Mary Stewart.
Linda Martin arrives at the Chateaux Valmy high in the French Alps to care for young Comte Philippe, recently orphaned and in the care of his uncle Leon and step-aunt Heloise de Valmy.
When Leon's son Raoul arrives, Linda finds herself falling in love, although things are not as they appear and Philippe begins to have several life threatening accidents.
Linda was a charming Jane Eyre-ish type of heroine, and I loved the dark mysterious Raoul (ooh, that midnight "buffet").
Linda Martin, an orphaned English girl, has accepted a job as governess at Chateau Valmy in the French countryside.
We know immediately that all is not as it seems in the Valmy household, as does Miss Martin, and the sorting of the good from the bad is a dangerous endeavor.Reading Nine Coaches Waiting again was like coming home and finding someone had already lit you a fire and left you a hot toddy.
You find yourself holding your breath with Linda Martin and feeling her desperation as she attempts to unravel her suspicions from the facts.I cannot express how much I love Mary Stewart and her writing.
While this could be considered a period piece (it was written and set in the late fifties), and certainly has gothic elements (the orphaned young English woman serving as a governess in a remote French chateau), Mary Stewart's writing elevates it above the typical genre fare.
One of the pleasures of reading Mary Stewart is her evocative descriptions of the setting and her lyrical writing style.
While there are elements of Cinderella and Jane Eyre, to both of whom the character ironically compares herself, and even a bit of The Sound of Music quality (the book pre-dates the movie), it is still a compelling mystery/romance with a totally sympathetic and likable heroine.
The boy's aunt and uncle want an English governess because they want little Philippe to learn the language.
Philippe is a sad, pathetic little fellow, mourning the recent loss of his parents in a plane crash, and separated from his favorite uncle, Hippolyte, an archaeologist who is out of the country.
Just as Linda comes to love her new life - and her young charge - she discovers that not everything is so peaceful and wonderful about her new home.
Most of all, I loved Linda and little Philippe, who really blossoms under her care.
NCW has escaped my reading list all these years, so it was a delight to dive into Stewart's descriptive and nail-biting world with no pre-conceptions of how this one would play out.Certainly, NCW is typical Stewart: lovely young Englishwoman travels to [insert country here:] and finds herself caught in a web of intrigue, danger and romance with a handsome, mysterious stranger.
She can transport the reader to whatever destination she writes of, so that you feel you know the landscape--it's sights, it's smells--as well as the heroine does.NCW transports the reader to late '50s France, where orphan Linda Martin travels to care for a young boy soon to inherit a chateaux.
I can't remember if I've ever read it before, but perhaps I did and that was why it all seemed to unfold in a predictable way to me.
Our young heroine Linda arrives in France to take care of nine-year old Philippe and finds herself in what turns out to be a very strange situation.
I couldn't identify with Linda, she annoyed me except for the tender and loyal way she cared for Philippe.
But I also must admit to having a bad head cold these days so maybe I should re-read this book some time when I'm less likely to sneeze it across the room.
Mary Stewart is my very favorite when it comes to romantic suspense and her many mysteries are serial re-reads for me.
Linda is immediately sympathetic, with her loneliness wrapped around her like a threadbare cloak, her fierce protectiveness of Philippe, and the way she verbally spars with Léon de Valmy and manages to emerge unscathed.
Every time I read it I fall in love all over again with lovely Linda, dangerous Raoul, adorable Philippe, and beautiful, haunting Valmy.
She only knows that she will do whatever she can to protect Philippe.She wanted to trust Raoul, the dark and dashing young man who had her utterly smitten, but she knew that he was Leon’s son, and that he might have had a hand in those accidents ….I’d love to say more, but I mustn’t give away any more of the story than I have already.But I must say what makes this book so special.Mary Stewart always evokes the settings of her stories wonderfully well, and in a way that feels so natural; she does that here with the loveliest of settings.
In fact, as my friend, author & generally brilliant human Linda Hilton, knows, as I actually cribbed the title from an essay she discusses in this post (which is well worth reading, so you should read it!).Nine Coaches Waiting centers around Linda Martin, a young French woman who is hired as the English speaking governess for Count Philippe Valmy, the nine year old heir to the Valmy estate and fortune.
There are a couple of "accidents" where Philippe is nearly killed, at which point Linda begins to wonder if they were really "accidents" at all, or if someone really is trying to get rid of the young count.As always, Mary Stewart's descriptions are truly lovely and evocative.
It is very much a gothic romance, with the heroine having the usual attributes—she is an orphan, she needs to pay her way in the world, and she is hired by a French family to school a young nobleman in English.
The young Comte is nine years old and it takes a bit for Linda Martin to make friends with him and get him acting like a real small boy, but they manage to make the connection just before sinister things begin to happen.
Will she be the scapegoat when young Philippe is killed?Add the complication that Linda has fallen in love with Raoul, her employer’s son, who manages another large family estate.
I have fond memories of Mary Stewart books from my tween days, but I didn’t expect to enjoy one now that I’m old and critical (that's just sad; maybe “mature and learned”?).
What a fun surprise!
This one has all the elements you could hope for in a 1950’s adventure/thriller/romance — a young woman trying to start a new life; a mysterious French count; suspicious happenings at a chateau; a handsome and swarthy Frenchman who MIGHT BE DANGEROUS; midnight picnics; near-death adventures; and.
And, as a bonus, the main character takes at least two days, not ten minutes, to fall helplessly in love.
Fiction so light it's "lite," but tons of fun.
I enjoyed this book. I was kept guessing all the way til the end. The setting was very well described and I could easily picture it. The characters likable and believable. This is my 4th Mary Stewart book. I didn't like it as well as the other 3 but I think it's because I was not as much into the governess character as some of the other heroines like in Thornyhold and The Gabriel Hounds. Thornyhold being my favorite at this time. I'd highly recommend it tho for the suspense and romance. It does not disappoint.
I haven't read much Mary Stewart aside from the Arthurian trilogy a million years ago.
This one kept popping up as one of her best, and I thought, why not?I absolutely loved it.
And I really, really didn't know who the villain was until everything was revealed, so I was in suspense the whole time.
(view spoiler)[I loved that reveal, too.
It said everything about Raoul's character and how his love for Linda had caught him completely by surprise.
(hide spoiler)]Now I need to find out if there are any other Mary Stewart novels that are this good.
They may or may not be fairly closely related.Honestly, that's almost all of Mary Stewart's books, bar the Arthurian ones, in a nutshell.
I loved the fairytale references and the Jane Eyre references; I loved the sense of danger; yes, I even love the ridiculous over-dramatisation of a very unlikely plot.
I love Raoul even though the whole plot is so transparent, and for the space of reading this book, I'd say yes to him just as breathlessly as Linda does.
Mary Stewart is a legend; her books are classics when it comes to the genre of gothic mystery.
Stewart, much like Daphne DuMaurier, is an expert at building suspense and causing our minds to flit between one suspect and the next.
And, admittedly, it is a little obvious from the start, but there are many layers of doubt that Steward builds and, all the more, with a romance at the center, this book lacks nothing.
If you’re a fan of Jane Eyre or simply gothic mysteries in general, then you cannot go wrong with Nine Coaches Waiting.
Linda Martin, an orphan from England, arrives at a sprawling French country estate to look after another orphan, Philippe.
Philippe lived with another uncle before, but that one took off to Greece.
The culprit is obvious.I enjoyed the writing, the careful characterization of Linda, the servants on the estate, Philippe.
I didn't much care for Raol, but rich and handsome philandering men...well...sorry Linda, I'd have steered way clear.
Linda is of course too far above on her moral high horse to go for Raol just because he is rich, no, she must fall in love with him.
Add to this Stewart's spellbinding style and by the time the pace quickens, you just can't stop.Linda is an amazing character, full of life and positivity, and her voice rang true.
On the contrary, the author dealt with these in a most modern way that impressed me (view spoiler)[ Linda doesn't let her feelings come in the way of doing what is right  (hide spoiler)].Additionally, Stewart uses tons of literary references, from Shakespeare and fairy tales to Buchan, and focusing quite a bit on Rebecca and Jane Eyre, which are favourites of mine.
I'm truly won over by Stewart and can't wait to discover another of her books :O)
