https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34493.Strata
Strata is another early foray that Pratchett took in to Science Fiction before he rested himself firmly in to the loving arms of Fantasy. My views on this one are similar to that of his other sci-fi novel,  The Dark Side of the Sun  in that it isn't necessarily a good novel, let alone a good sci-fi story.The joy of this one is of course, once again, the fact that it pre-empts the Discworld so wonderfully. You can clearly see PTerry's mind cogs whirring and the imagination is startling. However,
However, he isn't particularly adept at writing sci-fi: again, we have stuttering explanations and quite shoddy sci-fi elements where it feels like he was truly excited by this piece of technology but half-way through telling us about it he got a bit fed up.The characters are similarly developed than in The Dark Side of the Sun, but there seems an edge to them here that you don't see in that one, but you do see in Discworld.
The Disc has no aliens, but they all seem alien even on such a small world.Again, I'd suggest you don't read this is you're not a fan of Terry Pratchett or obscure sci-fi.
This was Pratchett's third published novel, and one of the few Sci-fi books he's written.
But the truth is, a lot of the reasons I enjoyed it because in this early book, you get a glimpse of books he was going to write in the future, including discworld, and his upcoming Long Earth series with Steven Baxter.
That said, it was an early novel of his, and his craft is a little shaky compared to what it would become in his later books.
But on the other hand, even early Pratchet with some shaky craft is better than a lot of the books out there these days.....
It's NOT a Discworld novel!
It ISN'T!
Well, yes, the action does take place on a world that's disc-shaped, but...
look, will you listen?
Will you listen a moment?
Thank you.
There are no elephants.
And there's no turtle.
Well, of course it's important!
Duh. Vital, even.
I keep telling you this is not part of the series, it's a parody of Ringworld.
Now that is just beneath you.
"Geekily obsessed." Take that back.
No, I am NOT a Pratchett fan, I've read, what, maybe half a dozen of them.
That doesn't make me a Pratchett fan (continued until closing time)
Despite reading Pratchett since I was twelve, I've never picked up Strata.
Then this happened.
Then this happened.
Then they kept walking and this happened.
Then they flew for a while and this happened.
It's just a long chain of stuff that happened after each other.
Each happening has a clever idea, but they all stand in isolation, there's no cohesive plot.
And then the end happened.Yes, it's always fun to see the early scribblings of a genius - but to me, this is more like the early stumblings of a brilliant distance runner.
but at this stage he's all gangly knees and elbows flying sideways...After this I read: Brothers In Arms
While this may not have been his best work or best writing, I can definitely see the humor and beginnings of his slightly subversive wit and worldview peaking out. It’s not near as polished as his later work, but I liked this crazy story about the origins of the universe, our inability to not create, and the importance of diversity, as much as is physically possible being the key to the future. Plus I forgot how fun the kooky 70’s- 80’s sci-fi could be.
Another early Pratchett, brimming with promise, full of creativity and ideas, haphazardly and incompletely realized. For the Pratchett aficionado, however, witnessing the birth of Discworld is priceless. As the story moves from sci-fi to fantasy, Pratchett obviously had more fun with the fantasy parts. And the rest is history...
My 1989 notes say A+ on reread, near-perfect SF. Pre-DIscworld, pretty much straight space-opera, by memory anyway. I should dig it out for a third read.
I am making myself finish it not because I care much about what happens to the characters but rather because I care about what happened to the author, for this humble book appears to be the first iteration of Pratchett's Discworld.As a writer I find it very exciting to note that the Discworld concept that works so brilliantly as a humorous fantasy really stinks as a straight forward Science Fiction piece.
I am relieved to be reminded again that greatness doesn't happen automatically but as the result of years of persistence.Update - This book does pick up speed and interest after the halfway point.
It also get somewhat humorous.
I thought I would love Terry Pratchett and because of this, I acquired a lot of his books.
Turns out, I don't really like Terry Pratchett that much.
This book reminded me of Larry Niven's Ringworld, except the world is flat and not a ring, obviously.
It had a mix of human and alien characters trotting around this unknown world, wondering how and why it was made.
To be fair, this was better than Ringworld, but not by much.
This was one of those books I forced myself through.
I've still got a few more Pratchett's on my tbr pile but after them, I'm done.
The fact that it was published at all is bizarre because it's, well, unpublishable - the first 70 pages are equal parts bland exposition and discordant babble, and from there the story labors from plot point to plot point with the joy of a POW forced march.There's something they explain to you in creative writing classes, that involves "horizontal" and "vertical" writing.
Because it's clearly trying to say something, it has some brilliant ideas, it hints at an engrossing world to show, but Terry never gives it time to talk.
I'm glad I had a headache the other night.
I wanted to read something light and that I knew I would enjoy and this early gem from Sir Terry just sat on my shelf asking to be read.I'd read it before, probably twice, but as it turns out I seem to have remembered precisely 1% of this novel so this first re-read since Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency a year ago was much needed.It's a strange book.
Still, nice surprises are always appreciated.
This book reminded me very much of a school play at primary school where the children learn their lines and movements by rote and then stiffly deliver said lines before even more stiffly getting themselves into position for whatever comes next.Pratchett is at his best when he lets his characters live their lives on the page and you have a sense that life really is being lived rather than that some unseen hand is pushing them hither and thither.
Strata is not part of Disc World.
Missing in Strata is the fiercely witty and finely honed writing that make Pratchett's later work such an addictive delight.
And, of course, the characters who inhabit his later books.I'm glad the local library had Strata, and that I read it.
The archeology of a favorite author's writing can be interesting, especially if you get to see the initial appearance of an idea that evolves into something amazing from a mediocre beginningBut don't read this book if you aren't already a fan of the Disc World Series.
Go read one of his later books instead.
Reading Pratchett chronologically, I was disappointed by the first two books.
Strange stuff ensues.Strata does the wonderful British thing of being funny without seeming like it tries to be funny, and consists of a sci-fi, fantasy story with nuggets of wonderful absurdity and understated jokes throughout.
There are also interesting points scattered throughout which made me stop for a second to think about them.By Strata it seems like Pratchett had found his groove, and this is only on his third book.
I look forward to continuing reading through the groove.
Fans of the Discworld series will notice precursors and foreshadowings to Pratchett's later work and sparks of the humour and a preoccupation with the existentialist philosophy that would later characterise it.
While not particularly long or verbose, this one took me particularly long; the plot and motivation were unclear, the action scenes lagged and were periodically underwritten, and so, hard to follow, and what few attempts at humour there are fail to redeem it.
It picks up in parts sufficiently enough to partially propel along reading (alongside the necessary motivation Pratchett's name alone bequeaths), but only momentarily, before it settles back into decided mediocrity.
Strata and The Dark Side of the Sun both explore different notions about the creation of the universe, and how Mystical God-Like Species From The Dawn 'A Time are probably not all they're touted to be, despite the wonders they've engineered. Reading these two back to back, then, is probably not a good idea. You're left with an urge to draw parallels between the universes, speculate on how Discworld fits in, and who Pratchett was mimicing at the time, when really all he's doing is recycling and refining ideas (and getting some of them out of his system).
I have always been curious to read Pratchett's Discworld series so I hope I get the chance to do so in the future.
I was quite excited when this book came my way as I see it is an early version of the idea that later became the Discworld series so I was hopeful this would give me a good insight.
I did enjoy the story but I wasn't overenamoured with it but I would still be interested to read the Discworld series.
Fairly lightweight science fiction but with a very original premise and nice fun characters. Never really knew what was going to happen and even though this was essentially a slightly bloated short story it never wore out its welcome.
80’s science fiction was allowed non-standard use of language that modern novels do not enjoy. The writing is lyrical, obtuse, difficult but somehow mystical. The reader does not exactly follow, but the effect is there. I enjoy the effect. I don’t have to understand everything.
Het betreft een alleenstaand verhaal, Fantasy met een vleugje Sci-Fi. De (hoofd)personages zijn menselijk (Kin) of Shand (Silver) of Kung (Marco).Ook in 'Strata' is er sprake van een schijfwereld, hier gebaseerd op de Aarde, maar dan wel beheerd en bediend door computers, machines, met alle gevolgen van dien.
Het is wel leuk om te lezen hoe Pratchett verschillende culturen erin verwerkt heeft, hier vooral dan de Vikingen en Arabieren.Gezien dit een van zijn eerste verhalen is, is de kwaliteit en het humorgehalte nog niet op het peil van de latere 'Discworld'-novels.
V některých ohledech dosti originální, někdy v ní člověk vidí odkazy na další knihy (třeba Stopařův průvodce, který vznikl jen dva roky před Stratou), ale i hluboká filozofická témata spojená s (nejen) lidstvím*, původem vesmíru, života a vůbec (a zase :).
Dodnes si pamatuji dávné první čtení a seznamování se s tvorbou planet, zkamenělin (ha rozdíl, tady se neřeší fjordy :), ale také postupné odhalování tajemství (tak trochu jiné Země-) plochy.
Je to zajímavé, jiné, originální...* Která přetrvala v termínu "tvarismus" skrze mnoho knih až do úplně posledních Zeměploch.
What a great read, this is only my second non disc-world book written by Terry Pratchett that I have read so far.It starts out Kin works for the company and they build planets, but some were built by older aliens if you would like to call it that, every thing is done the way it should be with round planets orbiting around a star.
Most Pratchett books are meant to be parodies (but so good you can enjoy them by themselves), so I understand where Strata's coming from, but...
it may be the only thing I've understood in this book.It may be because I'm reading it in English and, for as much practice as I get, I still am not bilingual, or because I don't think I ever read sci-fi in English before, but it is all very confusing to me.
But it's the first time I ever fell asleep on a Pratchett book.Edit after finishing it: I think I've understood the story, yet all along it felt like I didn't get the words.
I have a special relationship with four pairs of first albums.
Sure, as musicians mature, the best among them become more technical, more complex, ‘deeper’ in many ways; yet in very special cases, the combination of youthful drive and youthful naiveté can produce what in hind sight is their best work.
The four bands in question are Judas Priest, Iron Maiden, Metallica, and Blind Guardian.
Their contributions and accomplishments are many, but the first two albums rock forever.Which brings me to The Dark Side of The Sun and Strata – Pratchett’s first two ‘albums’ (not counting his early Carpet People demo).
It is the first book by Terry Pratchet that I've read and think that it's not particularly good.
Luckily, most of the action takes place in the weird disc world which has its own rules and its reality seems more integral and consistent to me, despite the fact that it was supposed to be the one place in the Strata universe that seemed to escape the physics laws.The chaotic background was very discouraging, but the book does show the promising writer's gift.
It's not that good yet, but now and then the reader comes across a dialogue or a motif that brings a smile.

One of Pratchett's earliest works, it was meant to be a satire of Niven's  Ringworld, hence, a discworld.
This is not, however, a Discworld novel.
Obviously a springboard for the Discworld novels, this is a good one to read to see Pratchett creating the palette he used to paint that series.The following quote from Pratchett is taken from the Annotated Pratchett File (AFP):"Terry explains:  “I intended Strata to be as much a (pisstake / homage / satire) on Ringworld as, say, Bill the Galactic Hero was of Starship Troopers.
Before the Discworld fantasy series, Pratchett apparently wrote sci-fi...
I'm not sure if you'll love it as much as did if you don't already love Pratchett, but if you like Aliens, mystery, far-off worlds and terra-forming you just might...
Fascinating to see some of Pratchett's later ideas pop up so early and far away from the Discworld...
namely, the discworld itself: it's surprising how much detail he went into to describe the philosophical and scientific problems living on a flat planet would create, especially knowing that he would spend the next three decades populating such a world.
I have to agree with other reviewers.
Why as a Pratchett fan is it so hard to read this book?
It just isn't that good.
And those words are true as can be.
After I read it I was comforted to find out that this book came out before Discworld.
That is good, because I felt like something in Discworld was being taken away from me, and now I can go forth in the knowledge that this terrible book only spurned on the series I now actually love.
The only thing I like about this book is Silver.
I first found this book at a minor branch of the Springfield (MA) public library. I liked it, but couldn't help but be aware of how much Terry Pratchett's writing had improved since he wrote it. Coming upon it again by chance I am delighted with it, as much because of the memories it brings up as because I really love the entirely original ideas in the story. Not his best writing, but brilliant in a way his other books missed, I think.
