https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2615.The_Innovator_s_Dilemma
Every one of these devices turned its industry upside down when it was introduced, driving established companies to the brink of insolvency, or even into oblivion, and paving the way for new actors to enter the landscape.Today, almost instinctively, we understand the concept of disruptive technology.
The problem was that the dictates of prudent business practice prevented them from investing in the sort of innovation that could turn their own industries upside down: disruptive technologies.
It could make rebar about 10x cheaper than the integrated steel mills, and it didn't matter that it was ugly.The integrated mills could not compete with the mini-mill due to costs.
Today there are no integrated mills in existence.This is the gist of the book: if you are going to create a new company, you ought to learn from history and fashion a product that will have the existing leaders gladly walking away from the business you are fighting for.Anyway, this is a long review.
If true, this could create an opportunity for a disruptive technology - applets picked off the internet and used in simple internet appliances rather than in full-function computers, for example - to invade this market from below."So essentially Christensen predicted Google Docs, Zoho Docs and similar products in the year 1997.
Actually any electric vehicle in production accelerates like a mad horse.And a last piece for my memo: the parameters by which customers compare the products on the market (from left to right) FUNCTIONALITY - RELIABILITY - CONVENIENCE - PRICE.In a young market, functionality is almost the same for all products, then they will start looking at reliability to differentiate the product.
This is one of the best books on innovation in the last 20 years.
But that what look like niche technologies - Winchester drives, hydraulic backhoes, etc - improve in capability, reliability and reduce in price to the point that they entirely cannibalise the existing market, leaving the established players high and dry, with no new product lines.
(In a way he is reposing the falling rate of profit thesis.) He suggests some rather less convincing solutions in the book, and expounded further in The Innovator's Solution: Creating and Sustaining Successful Growth.
This book was on my list of "Books I should read" for a long time. Maybe this is why it was so disappointing, or maybe I've just read too many modern case studies of business models to find this engaging. It was interesting to read about the origins of many terms that I take for granted (i.e. disruptive technology), but I couldn't really relate any of the examples or theory beyond anything that's already been mentioned by other more recent authors. And its hard for a 20-something to relate to the modernity of disc drives.
A good book, but a bit disappointing because totally centred upon business managing. I would like to see the discussion occurring at a lower level, the creative moment, before management decisions. Leave here the five principles stated by Clayton in the book. I generally agree with all of them, being the fifth one the most subjective."Principle #1: Companies Depend on Customers and Investors for ResourcesPrinciple #2: Small Markets Don’t Solve the Growth Needs of Large CompaniesPrinciple #3: Markets that Don’t Exist Can’t Be AnalyzedPrinciple #4: An Organization’s Capabilities Define Its DisabilitiesPrinciple #5: Technology Supply May Not Equal Market Demand"
Sometimes, supply creates demand. That’s my summary of the book.
It shows how such companies can cope with the challenge to maximize their chances even though there are systemic biases against it given how an established company must approach resource allocation.In my own career, I'm generally in the place of the smaller companies that effectively utilize disruptive technologies rather than with large, established firms with that problem.
It is equally valuable from that perspective because it sheds light on some of the advantages that are felt but perhaps not fully identified and guidance on how you might better exploit them.This book ought to be read by most people interested in business and certainly everyone occupied with computer technology.
The observations are prescient but the presentation is abominable.
I'm sure for those who demand an exhaustive regurgitation of every step in an analysis, it is useful, but I felt that most of the book could have been the research appendices.
On the other hand, the conclusions drawn were incisive and incredibly useful.
It would have worked well if it had been presented as a research paper with a 10-page abstract.
As a practitioner, I could be pretty hard on it because it's missing application, but I get that it was meant to be more academic in its approach, and I'm big enough to draw my own conclusions about implementation.
Very good analysis.
Clayton M. Christensen in The Innovator’s Dilemma argues a distinction between two types of technology change, each with different effects on the industry’s leaders: technologies (either incremental or radical) that sustain the industry’s rate of improvement in product performance, a typical prerogative of dominant firms, and on the other side, disruptive innovations which redefine performance trajectories and result in the failure of the industry’s leading firms. A longer summary can be found here
หนังสือคลาสสิคทีตองอาน กับคำถามแทงใจวาทำไมบริษัทยักษใหญถึงลมเพราะ Disruptive Technologyถึงหนังสือเลมนีจะอายุเกิน 10 ปี แตพอมาดูบริบทในปัจจุบัน บริษัทยักษกยังดูจะติดกับสับสนระหวาง Sustained Technology กับ Disruptive Technology แถมยังเดินหนารอวันทีจะถูก Disrupt แบบไมรูรอนรูหนาวแนะนำมากๆ ครับ
หนังสือคลาสสิคที่ต้องอ่าน กับคำถามแทงใจว่าทำไมบริษัทยักษ์ใหญ่ถึงล้มเพราะ Disruptive Technologyถึงหนังสือเล่มนี้จะอายุเกิน 10 ปี แต่พอมาดูบริบทในปัจจุบัน บริษัทยักษ์ก็ยังดูจะติดกับสับสนระหว่าง Sustained Technology กับ Disruptive Technology แถมยังเดินหน้ารอวันที่จะถูก Disrupt แบบไม่รู้ร้อนรู้หนาวแนะนำมากๆ ครับ
The most important point is that disruption generally comes from the practice of repackaging and marketing already existing, straightforward technology at a lower price point to a new customer base that is not economically viable for the established players.
And that’s how purveyors of the established technology (who have been at war with one another to deliver on the ever-increasing performance their customers have been demanding) find themselves at a disadvantage versus the disruptors when it comes to reliability and ease of use right about when their customers tell them they won’t pay for extra performance or features any more.The disadvantage of the lower-tech disruptor has created an advantage and it’s game, set and match!What’s an established player to do?
Notes from Clayton Christenson, The Innovator’s DilemmaIt pays to be a leader in a disruptive innovation• Leadership in sustaining innovations gives little advantage• Leadership in disruptive innovation creates enormous valueBut established companies typically fail in the face of disruptive change• Companies get organized to satisfy current customer’s needs and to facilitate design and production of current products. This organization can then prevent the organization most conducive to developin
Value Networks explanation: Companies tend to invest in innovations that fit the needs of their “value network,” which defines the hierarchy of importance of characteristics for current customers.
(Christenson)•	New entrants find markets with different value networks for innovations•	Companies are more likely to seek additional markets upward rather than downward because up-markets are defined and promise larger margins and the investment the companies have gotten used to making for product improvements demand higher margins.
New entrants tend to improve faster than established companies and so they will eventually disrupt.•	Middle managers avoid career risk of backing innovations for which no market or a down-market is identified.
Clayton Christensen's The Innovator's Dilemma is a challenging and enlightening book, which purports to break new ground in the understanding of business and technology but also explores existing principles beneficial to all and not only the entrepreneur or senior manager.
Although I was able to follow with a modicum of confidence the main ideas and principles, I certainly had to slow down a few times, re-read a few sentences, and ponder over a few graphs for a bit longer than usual to truly understand what was being presented and discussed.
It will push you to dig deeper into seemingly straightforward business cases and consistently use your critical thinking skills.Clayton Christensen offers something truly valuable and insightful with his book The Innovator's Dilemma.
Clayton Christensen is to the study of innovation what Thomas S.
Kuhn's "normal science" is analogous to Christensen's "sustaining innovation", and "scientific revolutions" is like "disruptive innovations".
Kuhn sees progress in science not as the discovery of new phenomena, but as fitting existing "anomalies" into a new "paradigm".
Christensen too sees disruptive innovation as finding new markets for existing technologies.
I'm sure the analogy can be taken further, but in short, both will change the way you think about how innovation progresses.
It’s been over a year since I got really passionate about learning more about the disruptive innovation after dealing with it on daily basis as a consumer or just simply as a human being.
It was a hard and a dry read for me I must confess.
Second, due to the cases the study and book is built on (I have neither expertise no any interest in hard disk drive or mechanical excavator industries) .
I believe I will have to re-read it a bit later again more passionately and thoughtfully.
It explains why the very nature of disruptive innovation and its proclivity to succeed in emerging market (only), cripples large firm even with their immense resources and expertise.The book also provides the solution, based on extensive study of both success and failures, which can help managers better access and take right decision while tackling a disruptive innovation.To an entrepreneur, it also gives a better understanding of disruptive innovation.
The characteristics of such innovation identified in the book, lays down a firm foundation to help differentiate it from a sustaining innovation.WORTH READING TWICE !!!!
The whole idea: that good management (like, truely good) eventually leads to poor decisions is fascinating.The example: If current customers demand "faster horsers" companies rightly put their energy into faster horses.
What the customer says and wants isn't necessarily what's good for the company.
Meaning: everyone wants something and they lie about their wants.This book is about how to differentiate between "Sustataining innovation" (more megabytes) and "disruptive innovation" (a different form factor, a different approach.)This would score very poorly on the "Flesch Reading Scale," and I found the writing to be opaque at times - it's easy to write sentences with multiple qualifiers .
To be honest I was skeptical at first about his ideas, but they quickly became obvious as more and more cases were presented.Taking away one star for being superfluous -- half of the book comprises the same few takeaways that are repeated over and over again in the introduction, conclusion, and in between each case study.Taking away one more star for choosing a misleading title -- a better title would be 'The Corporation's Dilemma'.
The book is targeted to successful executives as opposed to ambitious innovators and the author never gives credit to innovators that don't match his narrow definition of 'disruptive', (not even in 2015).
Many companies today disrupt through quality execution and/or network effects: Uber, Facebook, Apple, Tesla.Still I feel that for its intended target (corporate executives) this book is a must read.
I don't read many books, but for some reason this one was a bit of a let down especially after all the fascinating reviews. For me it read like a textbook written by an engineer. With so much business/industry vernacular as interesting and ground breaking the content may be, it was boring and a struggle to read. I'll try again another time, maybe when I'm in a more analytical mood.
The ideas are astounding - a must read, however, the book is quite dense. There is a ton of research behind everything, but the presentation can be a bit redundant/overwhelming. Definitely worth the read - but don't be afraid to skim sections once you've gotten the point.
The author Clayton Christensen who is very well known for his research, takes examples of industries like disk drive, excavation and such to demonstrate how successful and innovative companies fail precisely because they listen to their customers.
The author proves that getting customer feedback, tracking competition, allocating resources carefully, using tried-and-tested processes, all hallmarks of good management eventually kill the spirit of disruption.
The value to innovation S-curve: Developing a product takes iterations.
For this reason, customers of successful companies are not interested in new / disruptive products, instead they focus on innovating existing products.
Such organizations, free of the power of the customers of the mainstream company, ensconce themselves among a different set of customers—those who want the products of the disruptive technology.In dealing with disruptive technologies leading to new markets, however, market researchers and business planners have consistently dismal records.
In fact, based upon the evidence from the disk drive, motorcycle, and microprocessor industries, reviewed in chapter 7, the only thing we may know for sure when we read experts’ forecasts about how large emerging markets will become is that they are wrong.Simply put, when the best firms succeeded, they did so because they listened responsively to their customers and invested aggressively in the technology, products, and manufacturing capabilities that satisfied their customers’ next-generation needs.
A brilliant book on Innovation & Strategy!
Prof Christensen aims to why Great Firms always lose out to Disruptive Innovations.
The juice lies in the first part!3 Key Points from the Book on Why Great Firms Fail1) Disruptive vs Sustaining Innovations.
*Sustaining innovation = improvements to the current performance thru tech advancements.
*Disruptive innovation = Creating a brand new value proposition (possibly with the same tech)e.g. iPhone with features any smartphone in the market had but re-positioned as simple, elegant, lifestyle device.
Sustaining innovations take place at a rate that it exceeds what consumers want (e.g. Apple vs.
Basically everyone :) I started this book 3 years back, read 25-30 pages and gave up as I did not found it interesting.
I started it again last month, but now I already read 2 other books by the same author, just to realize that the language in this book was too tough for me to understand 3 years ago mainly because of my level of understanding.
If you want a full grasp of Clayton's theory, read his all three books and you will feel the dots-are-connecting effect, giving you a 360-degree view of looking at a situation in every aspect of your life.
Куди потім вони діваються?
Вистачить першу і три останніх глави.Ще декілька виразів, записую для себе щоб не забути:- Коли порівнюються рішення, спочатку шукають ті що підходять по функціональності, потім вже по надійності, зручності і ціні.
Ось чому UX продається на фоні одинакових додатків- надлишок якості -- коли ти заточуєш твій продукт на ринки із специфічними потребами, в той час, коли більшість користувачів, використовують лише базову функціональність- неможливо дослідити ринок якого немає, потрібно випустити і подивитися як користувачі будуть його використовувати ( я так розумію на період написання книги такого поняття як MVP ще не було)P.S. 4 зірки за "водянистість" книги спочатку
Whether through acquisition or internal development, these companies always did adopt the technology, but they often did it late, halfheartedly, or without the proper market research, missing out on potential revenue and huge chunks of market share.
Christensen's book suggests that spinning off an independent organization to develop and market the technology, even if customers may not relate it back to the parent company, is often a successful strategy for these great firms to use.
These independent organizations are more organic and therefore can navigate into new markets faster, with more success and less risk because of the parent company's resources.
It was well worth the read.In the Innovator's Dilemma, Christensen argues that in some cases the reason why good, solid companies fail to stay ahead of the competition is not because they are incompetent, but because their structures/ processes/ incentives are all geared towards managing "sustaining technological change", as opposed to "disruptive technological change".
The performance specs of these disruptive technologies do not meet the needs of companies' existing customers (e.g. in terms of capacity for disk drives) but have other attributes (e.g. physical size) that could potentially be of value to other (as yet undefined) markets.
“Further, because with experience and sufficient investment, the developers of disruptive technologies will always improve their products performance, they will eventually be able to deliver sufficient performance on the old attributes, and they add some new ones”.Why do well-managed companies fail with disruptive innovations?
It’s rather the opposite - the same goals, practices and value networks that made them successful are now to their disadvantage with disruptive innovations.“Perhaps the most powerful protection that a small entrant enjoy as they build the emerging markets for disruptive technologies is that they are doing something that simply does not make sense for the established leaders to do.
God, business books can be so dense and boring. While I do believe Clayton Christensen is right on the money with his hypothesis, framework and careful (OH SO CAREFUL) curation of case studies in disruptive/innovative tech and business, I really wish he and his editor worked together to make this a bit more easily digestible. My favorite break down was towards the end with exemplifying electric cars versus gas cars and drawbacks. Because the metaphor and case studies were more current and recent, the premise was much easier to grab onto than disc space and computer case studies.
