https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10285.The_World_s_Religions
فى البداية احب اشكر اصدقائى على مشاركتهم فى قراءة الكتاب لقد عاونونى فى فهم الكثير من خلال المناقشات
اظن بهذا الكتاب اختتم قراءاتى لعام 2015 .على الرغم من ان هذا العام على الصعيد الشخصى كان ملئ بالخيبا
We listen first because, as this book opened by noting, our times require it.
The community today can be no single tradition; it is the planet.
...Those who listen work for peace, a peace built not on ecclesiastical or political hegemonies but on understanding and mutual concern...Understanding, then, can lead to love.
Love brings understanding; the two are reciprocal.
So we must listen to understand, but we must also listen to put into play the compassion that the wisdom traditions all enjoin, for it is impossible to love another without hearing that other." (390)
I picked up this book thinking that this would be a good refresher, after all I'm a worldly woman who knows so much about other religions!
And to be completely honest, I am still struggling to grasp all of the information presented by Smith.This book is amazing.
That in listening we are communicating, and in communicating we are loving.
It doesn't get more beautiful than that.It took me much longer to read than I initially assumed it would, so give yourself some time.
But it was totally worth it, and I will read it again.
هذا الكتاب أشبه بموسوعة عن الأديان السماوية منها والأرضية والبدائية وما يميزه أن مؤلفه لم يسخر من أي دين بل قدم كل دين من وجهة نظر معتقنيه , حاول أن يبرز الجوانب الجميلة في كل الأديان وشرح فلسفتها بطريقة مبسطة وسهلة , الكتاب ضخم ومرهق لكنه ملىء بالمعلومات المفيدة التي ستجعلك تفهم أديان الآخرين أكثر وفهمك لكل الديانات سيجعلك تدرك أن نقاط الاتفاق بين الأديان أكثر من نقاط الاختلاف ومع ذلك فإنك يجب أن تحترم هذا الاختلاف وتدرك أن كل دين هو طريقة مختلفة للوصول إلى الله
بعدها ظهرت المسيحية بانقساماتها الثلاث الكاثوليكية الارثوذوكسية و البروتستانتية ولد يسوع في فلسطين و هو يهودي كان نبيا مرشدا انطلق من التراث الديني اليهودي حول الوسطاء الذين كانوا يمتلكون الروح كان يقوم بعمليات الشفاء و يحث على الرحمة و الشفقة وحب الاعداء وكان يقول ان حب الله شامل للانسانية وان البغايا و المنبوذين يدخلون في رحمة الله قبل المستقيمين( استقامة ظاهرية لم يتعرضوا للظروف التي تكشف معدنهم الحقيقي بعد ) ان حب الله لنا يذيب كل مشاعر الخوف و الذنب و يجعلنا نحب الاخرين بدورنا يمكن القول انه جاء مصلحا لليهودية حيث ظهر فيها تمييز بين المقدسين و العاديين لقد جاء ليجعل الوحي الذي اختص به اليهود شعب الله المختار رسالة الى كافة الناس مما جعله يتعرض لعداوة مواطنيه و شكوك روما فادى ذلك الى صلبه في القدس هذا هو السيد المسيح الذي بعد موته اصبح اتباعه يعتقدون انه الله الذي تجلى في مظهر انسان فهو في الانجيل فوق الطبيعة البشرية و تعاليمه مثالية.
إن الله يتحدث إلينا في ثلاثة مواضع: في الكتب المقدسة، وفي أعماقنا، وفي صوت الغرباء|توماس ميرتون| لذا كان لابد من الاستماع دائما للغرباء والمختلفين عنّا فكريا وعقائديا.قدم هوستن سميث مجهودا ممتازا في محاولة توضيح الديانات التي تناولها من منظور معتنقيها ومحاولة تبسيطها ولكن يظل عمله في الأخير هو محاولة أولية لفهم تلك الديانات . . وبالطبع كل ديانة تملك كمّا هائلا من الأدبيات الخاصة بها بالإضافة لتشعب مذاهبها وعمقها التاريخي.يظل الجزء المفضل لي في الكتاب هو الخاص بالهندوسية التي افتتح بها كتابه . .
. فالديانة الهندوسية معقدة لأبعد حد وقد حاول تبسيطها وعرضها في مائة صفحة بصورة ممتازة جدا تظل تدهش المهتمين والمتعمقين في الديانات عموما.الكاتب خالط البوذيين وجالسهم ومارس طقوسهم لذا كان كلامه عن البوذية نابع من تجربة خاضها فكان توضيحه للديانة ممتاز جدا.الجزء الخاص بالكونفوشية والطاوية جيد لحد بعيد ولكنه يظل غير كافي لفهمهما.تناوله لليهودية كان مثيرا بالنسبة لي، شعرت أنه يريد الدفاع عنها لا أعرف لماذا، ولكنه أمر جيد للتعرف على اليهودية بصورة مغايرة غير التي نتناولها دائما.هوستن سميث مسيحي بروستانتي وجاء الجزء الخاص بالمسيحية جيد .
اختلافات .. آراء.. نقاشات .. كلها تؤدي إلى أمر واحد ! أين تكمن السكينة الداخلية.أديان أرضية وسماوية! تشابه بكثير من الامور واختلافات جمة في كثير من المواضيع ، ولكنها جميعا تصب في فلك البحث عن الحقيقة ! البحث عن الحكمة  بحثي مازال ضئيلا ، لكن ان تكون نهاية سنه 2016 بهذه الابحاث والقراءات تجعلني اسعى لتكون السنة القادمة سنة بحث جدي اكبر . كتاب جميل ومميز للتعرف على معظم الاديان .. لا يحمل أي تعصب لدين ما .. فقط طرح عام وشامل للعقائد والمذاهب والافكار..
يا إلهي ..!يتحدّث الكتاب عن رسالة الأديان وركائزها الأساسية.تحدث عن الهندوسية, البوذية, الكنفوشية, ا
But the good doctor fails to see that this is simply the modalist heresy.And if that weren't enough, he misquotes the Bible more than once.* The book is depressing, but upon reflection, uplifting.
How utterly beautiful is the gospel of Christianity to the ears of weary sinners tired of doing what Confucius say, or bending and contorting their bodies in hopes that the yogic rituals will make them ready to enter nirvana.I would not recommend this book for anyone who wants to take a serious looks at the beliefs of the world's religions and wants to know why the adherents of those religions find those beliefs compelling and true.
This is an unbias fact base book that adhears to the positive side that religion provides (aside from the negativity that is obviously present within every religion, he bypasses that notion and delves into the heart and soul of each practice.)I sat on my comfy sofa feeling the flecks of Eurika moments when my Westernized lacking of the Eastern religious became known to my clear concious.
However my lacking of the Eastern practices which I found finally enlightened thorough Huston, the most embarassing Western religion that I found myself quite ignorant on was Islam.

While Smith's coverage of the Judeo-Christian tradition is excellent and his treatment of Islam is adequate, he has a hard time getting away from the Middle Eastern/monotheistic perspective and allows it to color his writing.
Consequently this book becomes less and less accurate the farther East he gets and the more different from the Judeo-Christian tradition the religions become.
This book dominated Western religious studies classes for decades, but in this globalized world its time is long past.
Maybe look at the chapters on Western/Middle Eastern religions, especially if you're doing research in Judeo-Christian studies and want to build on Smith's widely-recognized work.
Huston Smith's "The World's Religions" is one of the most significant books I've ever read.
Smith digs underneath the rituals, theology, and cold historical facts to capture why some of these major religious traditions, such as Hinduism, Buddhism, and Christianity, are so deeply and meaningfully profound to billions and billions of people.
One may disagree about whether any of these religious faiths speak the the absolute or partial truth regarding the meaning of our existence or reality, but each faith does speak directly to our human condition and try to sustain meaning in a world that often feels cold or hostile to us.
تحميل كتاب أديان العالم لهوستن سميث من هذا الرابطhttp://goo.gl/r8NB82
5)"Science makes major contributions to minor needs, [Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes:] was fond of saying, adding that religion, however small its successes, is at least at work on the things that matter the most." (pg.
21)"Life is so filled with disappointments that we are likely to assume they are built into the human condition." (pg.
23)"By and large, life is powered less by reason than by emotion, and of the many emotions that crowd the human heart, the strongest is love." (pg.
32)"Work is the staple of human life.
How many people drift through life simply waiting for the breaks." (pg.
He makes lots of awkward comparisons with Christianity and Western culture that don't make the reading more accessible, nor really do justice to the traditions he's discussing.
In the middle of a chapter on Hinduism he starts going on for several paragraphs about C.S. Lewis.
Rather than actually teaching about different traditions he gets caught up in making awkward comparisons and sweeping characterizations about each one that don't do justice to their complexity.I left this book feeling like I could have learned so much more about world religions.
I've always found Huston Smith insightful, lucid, and fun to read, and so I chose this as one of my course textbooks (when the previous textbook came out in a new edition---for $110!).
In spite of its lack of much primary source material (which Philip Novak's collection of scriptures supplements), this is an excellent introduction to the major religions of the world, "our wisdom traditions." Smith's concise chapters describe the big religions--Hinduism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Taoism, Judaism, Islam, and Christianity--as well as discussing the role of religion in the 21st century and providing tips on how to approach religions and religious diversity.
The illustrations are the weakest part of the book.
bahasanya ringan dan mudah dicerna. pembahasannya juga ga ribet dan teratur. padat, enak ((kayak donat)).
I have found “The World’s Religions” by Huston Smith to be a worthwhile read.
The book is highly informative about the greatly diverse religious beliefs, values, and traditions among the world’s great and not-so-great religions.
I found it to be a highly engaging experience to read about the diverse ways in which human civilizations have, throughout the centuries and millennia of human history, expressed their desires to commune with the Spiritual Realm – a Realm often referred to as God. I learned a lot from reading this book, but I believe that the greatest benefit for me was the stark realization of how very different cultures can arrive at spiritual and moral values and philosophies.
My reading of Smith’s book has encouraged me to be very disinclined to denounce those of religions that contrast with my own traditions.
The photographs and artworks in The Illustrated World's Religions are gorgeous, and highly illustrative of the various faiths in question.
Peoples with highly different faiths and worldviews are lumped together: the final chapter, "The Primal Religions", includes Australian Aborigines, Native Americans, and various peoples of Africa and New Guinea as all constituting some amorphous religious blob, and even Jainism, a completely distinct religion, is added without clarity to the Hinduism section.
The diversity present within numerous religious groups is entirely glossed over.
While many of the examples are true, they do not have strong subtlety in dealing with each faith.
A very nicely-put-together book, this consists of chapters written by various authors on different facets of religion: pilgrimages, prayers, modern directions of the church, etc.
My favorite part was the photos, which were of National Geographic-type quality and showed people performing various religious activities, as well as some beautiful shots of temples, churches, and scenery.
While not really something I would ordinarily just pick up to read, it was a very easy-reading book--very interesting, beautifully put together, and quite informative.
I'd recommend it to anyone interested in an introduction to different religions (the chart outlining the different facets of Christianity is particularly useful!), or anyone wanting to read some religious-topic essays illustrated by beautiful photographs.
I read this book for a World Religions class which was actually the intro class, but I took it at the end :) I didn't expect much from a 101 class, but this book really grabbed me.
As Smith says in the beginning, 'There are plenty of sources dealing with the negative aspects of religions and religious strife over the years.
This book focuses on the positive aspects, the ideal each religion is striving for.'It really opened up new worlds to me, and it was a breath of fresh air to have Christianity at the end; it allowed you to see it from a broader perspective.
Huston Smith, a Christian, is a child of missionaries who has lived in many parts of the world.
He has taught comparative religion courses for many years.
He dedicates a chapter in this book to each of the world's major religions.
He deals with each religion sensitively, in depth, with generosity and with impressive insight.
He points out, quoting Justice Holmes, that science makes major contributions to minor needs and that religion, however small its successes, is at least at work on the things that matter most.
My world view has been broadened as a result of reading this book.
Uh, well, I kinda read this one. :) It was more dense than I am used to, it took me a long time to read and I couldn't renew it anymore at the library so I had to take it back before I finished it. I got about a 1/3 to 1/2 through it and I thought it was excellent. As one critic said, it really captures the "spirit" of major religions instead of focusing on dogma or traditions. I am considering purchasing so I can finish it and have it as a reference book.
Thus, this individualization and the sense of the mystical body of Christ that needs to be expressed differently in order to come into the same goal is in direct contradiction of the Islamic way of top-down submission to the will of Allah via the Islamic law explicitly stated in the Koran.Christian theology sprung from from religious experience and tried to explain the what people were experiencing.
NYT Obituary (Jan 1, 2017):The book examines the world’s major faiths as well as those of indigenous peoples, observing that all express the Absolute, which is indescribable, and concluding with a kind of golden rule for mutual understanding and coexistence: “If, then, we are to be true to our own faith, we must attend to others when they speak, as deeply and as alertly as we hope they will attend to us."Huston Smith, a renowned scholar of religion who pursued his own enlightenment in Methodist churches, Zen monasteries and even Timothy Leary’s living room, died on Friday at his home in Berkeley, Calif.
One of the earlier editions of this book was my first introduction into the subject of world religions -- that was many decades ago now, and the book remains on my shelf.
I am a huge fan of the scholarship and work of Huston Smith -- both as an academic and as a public intellectual.
He brought this topic into the public awareness of Americans by popularizing the topic, offering lectures beyond the college campus, providing shows on PBS.
This is not a light read, that being said, it is an incredibly important read. Smith gives an overview of the world's religions without showing his personal beliefs. This is the kind of book that I can see myself going back to time and time again. It is a great read and makes you think deeply. I learned a lot.
ust finished rereading The World’s Religions by Huston Smith and, you guys, they all say the same damn thing. Just be good people. Just be kind and aware and humble. It’s not that hard. Just love one another. You shouldn’t need a rule book.Highly recommend Smith's book. Very well researched and unbiased.
