https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/961180.What_Happened_in_History
While I am sure there have been books written about the same basic subject that include recently attained or intuitive information, this is a great introductory survey of the rise of civilization and the birth of human culture. I recommend it highly.I am not sure how many copies exist (need to check Amazon, etc.), but I imagine it might be a difficult find, especially in hard cover.This is not a book I would lend out. I have experienced a long history of lending books and never getting them back.
Such public ways must be communal and not individual works [...]There is no need to assume any industrial specialization within the village apart from a division of labour between the sexes [...] the women would till the plots, grind and cook the grain, spin, weave and manufacture clothes, build and bake the pots and prepare some ornaments and magic articles.
p.86-7Childe describes with awe the great archetectural achievements of the ancient sumerians, and without denying that it is dubious how "voltunary" the labour that created these feats were, he is inclined to stand in awe of the ability for a society to feed and cloth its workers (who were completely removed from the production of bare necessities) through such prolonged and ambitious feats of construction.
There are many newer books that have a more comprehensive and exhaustive grasp on the evolution of history. As a panorama of history, however, this book still remains good, although a bit too banausic for my tastes.
Si bien a veces abruma con detalles que interesan a los arqueologos e historiadores solamente, realmente no se puede considerar como una falla.
Es interesante como se pueden ver trazos de la lucha de clases (tan presente cuando el libro fue escrito) en los reinos de la mesopotámia, o el antiguo egipto.
Sin embargo, es claro que hay una gran parte del libro, sobre todo la primera, cuyos fundamentos históricos son...
Se basa mucho en la especulación, algo que imagino que no se puede evitar ya que se esta hablando sobre culturas y hechos de los cuales no hay ningún registro escrito.
içinde sayfalar yanlış basılmıştı. zaten kitabın konusu ağır. çok faydalı olmasının yayında araştırmaya teşvik ediyor.
