https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7117578-a-tizenn-gy-kar-tos-aut-albatrosz-k-nyvek
Friend recommended this to me, and I ended up printing the E-Book out. Funny, oddball book, constant quirky action. I laughed most of my way through it. Thoroughly enjoyed it.
Ez az egyik kedvencem tőle! :D
What a disappointment, I loved "The Blonde Hurricane" so was really looking forward to reading this. But it was way too silly and over the top, didn't work for me sadly.
I liked the idea, but felt that it wasn't executed in the best way (was it the translation? It could have been).
I don't have a clue what to say about this book (I do want to read the original novel, though.) It's based on a comic novel, A tizennégy karátos autó Albatrosz Könyvek , by Jeno Rejto, in which a young sailor who seems to have ties to Popeye wins a lot of money, goes on a tear in France, and winds up in love with a French girl, joining the Foreign Legion, and dealing with an Alfa-Romeo made of gold, as one does. It's comic lunacy throughout, delivered with good cheer.
I knew I had picked up a good book when already on the first page I laughed out loud. These is just pure shenanigans, the type you know isn't possible but you don't care because it's fun. And it is told in the best of ways. The characters are all fascinating and interesting and not entirely without a human side despite the ridiculous situations they find themselves in. I found myself constantly wanting to know what craziness would happen next. Definitely one of my favorite Hungarian books. Highly recommended.
Суперкнига, вихрь приключений затягивает настолько, что можно перечитывать 10 раз подряд! Личный рекорд прочтений за неделю - 15 раз. Удивительно, почему по этой книге до сих пор не сняли фильма, сборы были бы колоссальными. Тут тебе и мафия, и война, и Французский легион, и любовь, и много-много неожиданных комических ситуаций. Енё Рейто настолько гениален (наше с кисточкой и переводчику!), что нельзя не влюбиться в его стиль. Спойлерить не буду, для затравки скажу только, что достаточно прочитать 2 страницы, чтобы навсегда влюбиться в эту книгу:) Читайте, не пожалеете!
It was a bit like reading a cartoon (and not in a good way): unrealistic, unlikable characters, making ridiculous choices yielding unearned results.I was told it is meant to be funny. I wish I had laughed :(
Eszméletlen jó!!! Gyakorlatilag nem tudtam folyamatosan olvasni, mert sírtam a röhögéstől...
I had read that Rejto was akin to Wodehouse. A very frenetic story, but easy and enjoyable. Won't be everyone's cup of tea but worth a try.
Vicces, csavaros tortenet.A tortenet, ugysmint a szereplok megfelelnek egy Rejto Jeno konyvnek.Nem a legjobb, de sokszor felnevettem olvasas kozben.
Ilyen jót rég szórakoztam mikor olvastam ezt a könyvet. Bátran tudom ajánlani bárkinek aki jó humorra vevő!
It's a pretty funny book with many twists and turns, a light read with a very entertaining plot and very queer characters :)
A fun and impossible story by Rejtő. What can I say? I just really love his writing style. This book is one of his best works. A must read adventure full of humor.
Nagyon vicces, csavaros könyv, klasszikus Rejtő, nagyokat lehet rajta nevetni!
Nagy katyvasz, de legalább aranyos.
