https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/712964.Gods_Man
I heard about God's Man from a Jim James interview; he credits the novel for almost totally inspiring his solo album and claims he felt its themes parallel his own life.
I flipped through it, marveled at the absurd intricacies and craftmanship of the woodblock prints, and just kind of...lost interest for a while.I kept it on a small table reserved for things I'm in the middle of reading and after a few days it became obscured by titles such as "The Giving Tree" (an awful moral.
His hopelessness is detected by a shadowy figure who then offers him a magical paintbrush, but he has to sign a contract!
رائعة بشكل كبير لا يوجد كلام ولكن كئيبة للغايةالصراع ما بين الحياة والموتوالخيانة والوفاءمن خلال صور مرسومة بالابيض والاسود
We seem to have ended happily, except that the artist-hero did sign a contract, and the masked man eventually arrives to collect what was promised: the artist's life.I had no desire to summarize Gods' Man in the tone of the above, the hip and knowing jadedness of the seen-it-all Internet addict.
Gods' Man, when transformed from image to word, does begin to show its faults, which range from disturbing ideological implications to risible earnestness.
This is a wordless novel, a sort-of proto-graphic novel.
This is the story of a Faustian-deal that an artist makes for fame & fortune.
This genre preceded the modern graphic novel, but it is very different in that there are no words beyond signs on buildings.
You have to decipher from the action in the picture as to what is happening.
Modern graphic novels do sometimes come close (e.g. Daredevil: Born Again), but this is black & white to the point story.
I had to study each picture carefully to understand what was happening.
A retelling of the Faust theme; a struggling young artist sells his soul to a mysterious stranger for a magic paintbrush which brings him fame and wealth. Disillusioned, he returns to the countryside and marries, only to have the stranger return to collect on his bargain. This novel influenced Allen Ginsberg's beat poem Howl and Art Spiegelberg's graphic novel Maus among other works.
Read this in the forty minutes of my first listen to Regions of Light and Sound of God by Jim James, and it was a profoundly moving experience. I know Lynd Ward's work stands alone (and does so well) but the way they complement each other is worth exploring if you're interested.
Do group readings count?
No hay mucho que decir. Novela gráfica + pacto faustiano + reflexión sobre el mundo del arte + art déco + expresionismo + novela sin palabras = obra maestra.
This book, or rather Ward's oeuvre, is an equivalent to pure cinema.
Kubrick believed that a piece of pure cinema should be devoid of words and usual narration and should succeed in telling its story through light and sounds.
"2001 Space Odyssey" was a step towards that goal I believe.
But much earlier, Ward had achieved "pure storytelling", I wonder if there in any such word, through his art.
German Expressionism is manifested in these sketches (woodcuts), which are so good to look at.
Above all, the woodcuts are darkly delicious, beautiful also, and horrifying at times.
In popular culture - maybe it will be interesting to someone to know that concept for Jim James's Regions of Light and Sound of God, is based on this graphic novel, as stated here: RollingStone musicIn my opinion music really accompanies novel very well. Someone might want to try it out. :)
Conheci em boa hora as ilustrações de Lynd Ward num cd de Tomahawk. Custou a acreditar que ele tinha feito ilustrações em livros de crianças perante a agressividade de muitas imagens e que os trabalhos tenham sido feitos por gravuras em madeira. Não custa nada a acreditar porém que é um dos maiores ilustradores norte-americanos e que God's Man tenha sido um precursor das graphic novels, que influenciou muitos ilustradores e obras de culto que se seguiram.
My mom owned an edition of this from the 1930's and I would read it as a child, thumbing to the scenes of the dark-eyed temptress. The pages were yellow, soft, and smelled of cigarettes. At the time this book seemed voluptuous and dangerous, but it also seemed to inhabit the worlds of high art and high morality.
Flat out amazing, from an art standpoint--gorgeous woodcuts. The story--the artist in a world of corrupting commerce, exploiters, and love and beauty--may be old hat now, but was probably fresher in the 1920's. Well worth checking out for the beauty of the woodcuts alone.
This is copy number 40 of 300 signed numbered books.
✭✭✭✭
In the book, one of the women who had been possessed revealed that as a child she had often read a book of pictures from her parents' bookcase called "Gods' Man." The book has no words, but is a collection of "woodcuts," a type of picture made from a block of carved wood being pressed on paper.
In return we find later that the artist must paint a portrait of the masked man.
Just then the masked figure returns and the artist goes with him, waving goodbye to his wife and child, to a precipice where the masked man wants his portrait done.
My immediate thought about this book was that I was barely going to “read” it; though the idea intrigued me, I doubted I would spend more than a second or two on each page - this was a three week class, I needed to read things fast.
I think it would be easy to tell such a story with words – in fact, so easy that I doubt it would be anywhere near as pleasant to read.
No mere set of slideshows, it was an attempt to dynamically present these wordless stories from the 1920s and 30s, since a weakness of the sequential image format is a certain lack of dynamism.
Ward's own comments on his novels seem to indicate he was aware of this, and to be fair to him, it is hard to communicate anything subtly when trying to tell a complete story in a limited number of still frames.
This is the true merit of "Gods' Man", and of Ward's work in general: the woodcuts are absolutely stunning.
It shows you how in the beginning he was a nobody, but yet a man with a talent for drawing.
So he meets this man along the way and the man tells him to sign a certain and he will gain fame for his artistic talents.
So the man uninformed signs the deal.
in the finial pages at shows how he meets a girl marries her and has kid and is iving a happy life.
The artists says, yes and takes him to a remote area.
The man reveals himself and the deal he had signed in the beginning it turned out to be he signed a contract with death.
There is a cleaner element of line in his artwork here, and the story is by far the most coherent of the ones I've read.
I'm starting to get the impression that as he progressed in his career he overextended the medium of the wordless novel by making the artwork somewhat busy and the story harder to follow.
I still have a couple more to read, so maybe he manages to pull off the depth he strives for in his later works; I hope so!The story is clear, but not original--follows a predictable Faustian template.
ini adalah buku cerita pertama tanpa kata yang terbit di negeri Paman Sam. Lynd Ward juga menjadi inspirasi artis - artis novel grafis seperti Art Spiegelmann dan Will Eisner.Yang istimewa bagi saya adalah medium penulisan buku ini. Buku dibuat dari lukisan dengan teknik mencukil kayu. Pernah liat lukisan semacam ini? Ward membuatnya dalam 149 halaman yang dirangkai menjadi satu cerita.Kisah dalam buku ini adalah tentang seorang pelukis yang dipinjami "kuas ajaib". Benda konon ini menjamin kesuksesan dan ketenaran dirinya. Setelah menanjak sukses dan terkenal ternyata dia tahu bahwa ada harga yang harus dibayar.

I love woodcuts, woodblock prints and lithography, and Lynd Ward's imagery is very powerful.
I would like to frame some pages (I noticed one of the woodcuts was adopted as a cover for Dostoevsky's Demons).
The story is a very old one, i.e. cliche, and his moralism hits you over the head with the woodblocks themselves.
Sarah Boxer of Slate.com suggests that the medium itself requires such heavy-handed, bleak, "sturm and drang" approach (see http://slate.me/wTxeUe) and was popular during this period (published in 1929 and a popular seller despite the Great Depression).
I will seek for his other works and that of other woodcut novels.
Lynd Wards' debut woodcut novel is a mysterious journey of an artist navigating the dark world of commerce, exploitation, sex, beauty and deception. Throughout the book there is an atmosphere of strangeness and secrecy, never fully realized or understood. Ward was influenced by the woodcut novels of Belgian Frans Masereel and studied under the German engraving master Hans Alexander Mueller, and that is evident in the the woodcuts here. The book can be read quickly, but a true understanding may take hours or days of study.
being a big fan of Maus and Persepolis, it was interesting to read one of the earliest precursors to the graphic novel.
I'll have to go back even further and find some of the german graphic novels that inspired this one to see what they are like.
The story here is pretty simple, and a familiar one, and the pace is fast (it probably only took me 20 min) but it was worthwhile and has some really great little woodcuts in it.
I went back and flipped through it a copule more times enjoying some of the subtleties of the characters expressions.
I recently came across the work of Lynd Ward, specifically his graphic novel God’s Man, while researching art for a book cover. Ward published six wordless novels of woodcut illustrations between 1929 and 1937. His Expressionist prints have strong Art Deco elements, with an obvious German influence, as well. In 139 panels, Gods’ Man tells the story of a struggling artist who sells his soul for fame and fortune. This morality tale is predictably dark and Ward’s art is effective in communicating isolation, ambition, and violence.
Dark, abstract tale told in wood cuts on art, the corruption of the world and a sort of Faustian agreement. Artists afraid of 'selling out' should read this. The small wood cuts initially repelled me, but soon pulled me in to their grainy grey truths.It's short, the art could be a bit more specific at the beginning and the Faustian bargain could have been made a bit clearer to me, it was missing something..True Rating: 3.6 Stars
This book has such beautiful graphics that many stories can be imagined after looking closely at each page. A man is transformed into a successful artist only to live his life and find love and have a family, he looses it all just as soon as he was awarded it. I think this book can be used for creative writing, sequencing, for interpretation and for signle pages of analization with children and adults. All of these drawings expres so much detail that they are all conversation staters.
I choose this book because i was interested in the religious aspect when i read the title. it is an interesting story about rise to sucess and death.the strengths is the beautiful artwork in the book. it shows the characters emotions as they go through adversities very strongly ( a picture tells a thousand words). The weakness in this book is that there were no words and the message is left to interpretation.
É a história, já banal, de um artista esfomeado que vende a sua arte mas acaba por encontrar o seu espaço, vida e felicidade, até que o mais exigente dos seus clientes, a morte, o vem buscar. Este livro antecessor das modernas graphic novels, distingue-se pelo duro estilo expressionista do autor e por contar a história apenas por imagens, sem quaisquer palavras. Deixa ao leitor a tarefa de olhar, interpretar, e construir na mente a narrativa.
