https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/920143.Little_Red_Riding_Hood
The whole idea of banning books for children, of banning and censoring books at all, is really so anathema to me, that it tends to make me want to scream, and historically, wine (but especially aged red wine) was often seen and used as a medicinal and as a restorative, and its presence in the narrative and the illustrations of Trina Schart-Hyman's Little Red Riding Hood is in NO way promoting rampant or problematic alcohol consumption.I also find it both ironic and rather sadly amusing that the book banners and sillily moronic book challengers who are/were so aghast and offended at the mere mention of wine in the story, are/were seemingly fine with Little Red Riding Hood's mother sending her daughter on a solo errand to the ailing grandmother, through a dark forest inhabited by dangerous animals, such as wolves (and in the original German language version, it is actually made abundantly clear that the forest is not all that safe for especially solo travel).
Where do I start?With the bad: I was most disturbed by Hansel and Gretel as a child, but I was disturbed by many, many fairy tales, and Little Red Riding Hood was one of them.
I felt anxiety as I was reading this, even as an adult.
I object to wolves always being depicted as bad and evil and villainous.
I just don’t like this story very much.
And the illustrations are amazing: they’re gorgeously colorful, lush, exquisite.
The illustrations alone easily deserve 5 stars.So, even though I don’t enjoy the story, I'd recommend this edition to any reader who can enjoy this fairy tale.
This one was not one of my favorites. I honestly thought it was more goofy than anything. Was hoping for something with a bit more to it than this - and it was the most heavy handed Grimm tail that I've read so far
Red Riding Hood has never been one of my favorite tales, but TSH's retelling is nice enough. It's the illustrations, though, that make this book a stand-out! They are absolutely gorgeous--so full of lovely details (the border art is such a nice touch! And I love that TSH put kitty cats into every scene she could manage!) The wolf looks so cute and friendly at first you don't blame Red Riding Hood for being nice to him--I almost wanted to pet him! But, his transformation... scary!
I love this version, principally because of Trina Schart Hyman's wonderful illustrations. She spent several years in Europe, which is why her artwork has that feel to it, which makes it perfect for this fairy tale. I can't believe that this book has been challenged in some places because of the bottle of wine in her basket. In Europe it's normal for people to drink wine. Just because she has it in her basket, doesn't mean she's drinking it. So ridiculous! I'm glad it was a Caldecott honor book.
Nostalgia 💟 :"3
Although there is nothing special about the text of this "faithful retelling of the Grimms' version" of the traditional fairy tale, Trina Schart Hyman's detailed, lush illustrations are simply breathtaking......with a touch of self-referentiality:
I loved this as a child, and in fact loved it so much that even know that I'm an adult I have a copy. The writing is probably good, but what I remember about this book (and what has me returning to it again and again) are Hyman's inimitable illustrations. The delicate lines, twisty trees, and beautiful colors are perfect for this fairy tale.
I can't believe that someone would ban/challenge this book just because Trina Schart Hyman depicted a bottle of wine in Red's basket. I love Trina's European-influenced style. If only I could draw like that...
“—¡Ay, abuelita! ¡Qué orejas más grandes tienes!—Así te oigo mejor.—¡Ay, abuelita, vaya manos tan grandes que tienes!—Así puedo cogerte mejor.—¡Pero, abuelita! ¡Qué boca más terriblemente grande!—¡Es para tragarte mejor!”
Hyman gives great expression to the faces of all of the humans in the story and does a particularly good job depicting the innocence and awkwardness of Little Red. The text borders have a quilt-like quality and pair nicely with the muted coloring that recalls the look of a storybook that has been around for generations and has aged from years of loving use.
Its irony is probably lost on young readers, but the last page of the book has Little Red recalling her mothers' instructions to be polite and not stray from the path.
Although Little Red did stray from the path, she is comforted by remembering that she remembered her manners and was polite (to the wolf!).
It was probably meant to be a message to girls to not talk to strangers, and to avoid men's violence.
However, in the story by the brothers Grimm, there are no such elements.The story is very fascinating, but raises many thoughts.
The warning about talking to strangers is still present, especially when it comes to girls.
Today, this conception shows itself when raped women are asked many inappropriate, irrelevant questions.
The story about Little Red Riding Hood shows the conception about women's responsibility for other people's violence.Let alone, it is an interesting story.
**** Caldecott Honor (1984) ****Splendid illustrations, full of lush detail and colorful composition. An excellent edition of the classic tale.
Wolf is going to her grandmother’s house.Theme: I think the theme of this book is do not believe strangers because they may hurt and deceive you.
Little Red Riding Hood believes the wolf, so she tells him where her grandmother’s house is.
To believe a stranger is a dangerous thing.Endpapers: In endpapers, I can see Little Red Riding Hood is going back to home because she leaves the dark forest to the bright towns, and the reader can know she is be safety.Borders: It have different borders for every page.
I read this book only because it was on the 17 of America's most surprising banned books list. I thought it was rather gruesome. The reason it is on the banned list is because of the wine in the story. Lol
Little red ridding hood goes into the woods to go meet her grandmother at her house.
As the story goes on it's revealed that her grandmother if the wolf that has been following her through the woods.
I explain to them people are like the wolf who was trying to pass for the grandma, and that we need to be careful and look for contact clues like Ridding hood did.
What's really funny about this story, when I first read it to my children and explained to them about stranger danger, for about a month they would say, "be careful he might be a wolf." Too funny.
Little Red Riding Hood by Trina Schart Hyman is a Caldecott Honor Book, and is a classic story about the little girl who wore a red-hooded cloak made by her grandmother, who loved her dearly.
In this book, this little girl's name is Elisabeth, and one day she sets off to visit her grandmother who is sick, to take her some bread, butter, and a bottle of wine.
Soon Red Riding Hood finds out that the one under grandma's covers, is not her grandmother, but the wolf who ends up eating her too.
Little Red Riding Hood by Trina Schart Hyman follows the traditional fairy tale originally told by The Brothers Grimm. Little Red Riding Hood sets off through the forest to visit her grandmother in this classic edition. Hyman is also the illustrator for this book and she has done a wonderful job. The colors are rich and each image is outlined in black. Her illustrations are able to add to the story with minimal violence, which I feel is very important when illustrating a children's book. A Caldecott Honor Book I would recommend this book to anyone 3 year and up.
SPOILER...First off, Little Red Riding Hood is named Elisabeth and her mother sends her off to see her grandmother, stressing that she should not run to her house as to not break the bottle of wine she was bringing her.
As she is walking down the path the wolf comes into the picture and steers her out of her way as he goes to grandmother's house and eats her.
Little Red Riding Hood also gets eaten (no way is this in the story I heard growing up).
He ends up killing the wolf and cutting out the grandmother and Little Red Riding Hood, in perfect condition.
I chose to read this version of Little Red Riding Hood last.
Let me start by saying that the illustrations set the perfect tone for the story.
These ancient fairy tales seem to be a little outdated for todays youth.
I enjoy the traditional tellings but I can see that todays youth may find them unrealistic and a bit boring.
It was also interesting that Little Red Riding Hood brought her Grandmother wine.
I think it would be great to read this story to grades 2-4 and have them re-write the parts that would be different today and do their own illustrations.
Summarize the book:This is the classic tale of Little Red Riding Hood.
Then when Little Red comes he eats her too.
He cuts him open and rescues grandma and Little Red. Then he sews up the wolf with rocks in him and he dies.
Identify the characteristics from the text that support the specific genre:This is a tale about a wolf who can talk and eat up the people without them actually dying.
Identify specific concepts that could be integrated into the classroom:The students could talk about their grandparents and do some writing about going to their houses.
I loved that LRRH's cat followed her on her journey, and on the page where the old huntsman arrived at the cottage (because of the loud snoring), LRRH's cat is shown at the huntsman's feet, meowing at him, as if telling the huntsman to hurry, that Grandmother and Elisabeth have just been eaten.
Mushrooms and cats and flowers and cats and ferns - it felt just like a fairy tale forest should.5 stars (and I must add this one to my collection)
This is the classic version of Little Red Riding Hood.
While some versions of this tale end with the wolf spitting out the two, this version ends with the wolf getting slaughtered by a huntsman who rescues the two women.
This ending of the tale may be too graphic for young readers, and a version with a less gory ending may be more appropriate.
The images in the book are beautiful and accompany the text well.
Students would be able to follow the tale using the images even if struggling with the text.
Yet another classic tale that I read and think would be a strong addition to any classroom of appropriate age.
This particular edition differs from any other book I have read because of the excellent imagery the author uses.
A young girl better known as Little Red Riding Hood sets out through a forest to visit her Grandmother.
The wolf manages to capture both Little Red Riding Hood and her Grandmother until a lumberjack comes to the rescue.
This book is ranging roughly at an age of 4 and I think it is imperative that at some stage every child is introduced to the book.
This is a classic retelling of the Grimm version by author/illustrator Trina Schart Hyman.
She won a Caldecott Honor Medal for the beautiful illustrations and lovely borders used to frame the text.
In the Grimm version, both Grandma and R.R.H. are swallowed whole by the wolf.
They are rescued by a passing woodsman who kills the wolf and frees the women after he hears the wolf snoring loudly from Granny's bed.
(The wolf is recouperating from his HUGE meal!) Aside from the lovely illustrations, Hyman brings nothing new to the tale.
However, she provides a beautiful approach to the Grimm's tradition.
The tale was originally written by the Brothers Grimm, but in this version the tale is retold and illustrated by Hyman.
Hyman does a fantastic job in bringing her words to life with the illustrations.
This version also is a Caldecott winner.
The text is lengthy as the readers better understand Elisabeth, the Red Riding Hood in the story.
Elisabeth develops throughout the story, so character traits would be an excellent element to discuss.
With that, the illustrations are very detailed.
Thus, the readers can make deep inferences and activate their prior knowledge to better understand this tale.
Excellent book!
1984 Caldecott Honor - Favorite Illustration: When Red is telling the wolf all about her grandmother, her face is so cute and matter-of-fact and the wolf has a sly look of camraderie on his face - so descriptive and fun!This retelling is a bit wordy but does a beautiful job of telling the story of Red Riding Hood.
Such a cute tale, and even though it ends with a rather gory slaying of the wolf, the illustrations stay clean and beautiful - perfect for a fairy tale!
This retelling is based on the Brothers Grimm's tale. The illustrations are detailed and lovely. Each page of text has borders that add further detail to the story events. Trina Schart Hyman conveys depth and emotion through facial expressions and small details in each illustration. I particularly like the illustration of Little Red cautiously entering her grandmother's cottage holding an unwieldy armful of flowers.
This book was selected as one of the books for the May 2016- Caldecott Honors discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
My favorite version of Little Red Riding Hood.
