https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/175143.Systematic_Theology_Vol_1
But in fact his cornerstone is the first commandment: “you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength.” My theology professor, a student and friend of Tillich’s said that after speaking to American audiences, Tillich used to mutter under his breath (with a bit of grinding of his teeth) “Americans are all nominalists.” We tend to view reality as made up of material things.
It took me three readings of the ST (completed for my Mdiv and MA in 1992), to change the way I see reality, to understand that every cell and every rock is spiritual (or sacramental), to enlarge and enlarge my view of God, who created the laws of nature, space/time, quantum reality, and all possible futures.Tillich is not a theist, deist, or pantheist.
One of the most amazing presentations of theology that I have seen.
It is mostly a philosophic treatise with little to no scripture reference.
Tillich is perhaps one of the greatest theologian/philosophers of the modern era who has tried to bridge the gap between religion and philosophy.
Tillich seems to be inclusive and universal in his theology, but he provides a structure which is compelling and understandable.
The "ultimate concern" which is the cornerstone of his theology is an amazing tool tool to influence the apologetic discussion that I have not seen too much of in most evangelical circles.
For Tillich, God is not a person, but is not less than personal.Tillich occasionally sets aside space to rebuke natural theology and inane literalism, as he wrote this in a time when fundamentalism was rapidly becoming less and less credible.
That can also explain some of the paradoxical and dialectic ideas found within this work.Throughout this volume, Tillich labors diligently to reclaim the importance of symbolism in religious language and thought.
Tillich makes the case that this is preposterous: Symbols are language for reality that transcend the literal.
You could say it is "more than literal."All in all, there is much more to be said, but Tillich was brilliant.
A very interesting, and often complex, book that looks at the approach of understanding (a "systems approach")our faith journey and quest to comprehend God, His Presence in all that is. This is not an overview of the personal salvation reason that is so prevalent today, but rather a more catholic (universal) approach at discovering how reason, philosophy, and revelation are integral to distinguishing the infinite being from our finite being. Very much worth the read for anyone who seeks to better understand how people, how you personally, see and discover who God is.
Systematic Theology was read for a course. I read all three volumes with great difficulty. In the end I came to understand something powerful about my own experiences and beliefs that I could not have envisioned, especially not from such dense, though rich, exposition.
This first volume is focused heavily on ontology as Tillich analyzes the question of God. He argues against typical theological expressions of the divine that it is mistaken to consider God as an existent being.
Although he comes at theology from a Christian perspective he approaches theological questions almost exclusively through a philosophical lens (there's hardly any Scripture quoted in the book).
This allows Tillich to simultaneously go farther than other theologians by unearthing neglected aspects of Christian doctrine while also falling far short of so many of the great theological minds Christiandom has produced.In short, Tillich has produced a wonderful book of philosophy and a pitiful book of theology.
I worked my way up to this one from Tillich's shorter and more popular works.
More Heidegger than Hebrews, more Sartre than Solomon, this volume systematically plumbs the depths of ontology in a way that clicked for me.
Distinguishing the ontological elements (polarities like individualization and participation, for instance) from the categories of finitude (time, space, causality, and substance) is fundamental in even thinking about what the term "God" means.
I have to admit there were several sentences where I had no idea what the author was trying to communicate, but that may be due to his thinking in German and writing in English.
Having been exposed to some of Tillich's more popular works in college, having come to know one of his associates and being interested in what might constitute modern, liberal theology, I picked up the three volumes of his Systematic Theology while in seminary in New York. I never got beyond the first volume. Discovering that contemporary systematics were not for me, I went on to concentrate the textual criticism of ancient texts and early Church history in addition to my ostensible major in psychology and its philosophical underpinnings.
Overcomes Rudolf Bultmann's depressing existential thesis and comes up with his own by incorporating themes from Karl Barth. Truly an awesome work that philosophically and theologically proves man's chief end as being to glorify God. Truly a great read.
It seems that Tillich will just continually make sense to me.
Heidegger for Christians. This book is very technical and can be difficult at times, but its great theology is worth it.
Reading Tillich was part of my college reading and was also required in seminary. Oddly, Tillich was not actually a Christian.
Fundamentalism tends toward finitude: by taking parabolic scripture literally, by erecting dogma, by effectuating rituals, by using intimidation tactics to coerce seekers to blindly succumb to embellished theology, and by seeing concrete things as holy, such as the ink and pages of the Bible, a crucifix, or a painting of Jesus.
Instead, Jesus calls his followers to something beyond the finite, to God, as that which should be of the most ultimate concern.
The Christian claim is that the universal Logos (infinite Reason manifest physically as our Ultimate Concern) became concrete in Jesus.
If you're reading this review, you likely already know that this book is non-trivial.I'm not even sure how to review it.
Tillich combines theology and philosophy into a dense, comprehensive work redefining concepts of faith, god, love, etc., and assembling them in a logical sequence.
And frankly I'm ok with that; sometimes I think the biblicists don't give enough credit to the hard questions that philosophy presents, and this liberal treatment of God and faith does a better job.I'd also assert that an atheist, or agnostic, would be fascinated to read this book.
Recommended for anyone interested in ontologyAs a Buddhist I am interested in ontology from a Christian perspective to compare with. In this first volume, a lot of preliminary material is covered with respect to the remaining volumes. The systematic arrangement of material is readily apparent; but not comparable to similar endeavors by other theologians.
Impressionante como Tillich consegue transitar por temas tão diversos e ser igualmente acurado.
Yet, on the other hand, there seems to be a priority of the Christian answer to that question in a God that is both Lord and Father and that has been ultimately revealed in the Christ when Jesus chose to give up all claims to divine power.A great, great benefit for me with Tillich's work is his almost scary clarity in his distinction between theology and philosophy and also how he clarifies the particulars of the theological method on the one hand and the theological theory on the other.
Tillich ties in the concept of God with his idea of faith as "ultimate concern" from "The Dynamics of Faith" with quotes like this one:[God] is the name for that which concerns man ultimately.
It means that whatever concerns a man ultimately becomes god for him, and, conversely, it means that a man can be concerned ultimately only about that which is god for him.And he introduces the concept of God as Ground of Being with one of my favorite quotes from this book - or even among all quotes - is the following:It would be a great victory for Christian apologetics if the words “God” and “existence” were very definitely separated except in the paradox of God becoming manifest under the conditions of existence.
On the one hand, I intensely disagree with much of what is found here but on the other it is undeniably well-argued and even brilliant in its own way.
My problem with this volume lies in the fact that Tillich seems to want to do two different things: maintain the ultimacy of Christianity as the best locus of revelation and communion with the ground of being (God) but also sort of do away with most of what Christianity would deem essential to itself.
Thus Tillich will still discuss his philosophy in theological terms ("Christ," faith," "God," etc.) but employs such language only in "symbolic" ways and reinterprets them for contemporary audiences.
painfully waded through this book, which really you must read to make up your mind on. don't trust my reviews, or anyone else's..
Not terrible, but not good either. The definition of inaccessible writing and unnecessarily complex in its language.
