https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1152265.Mog_the_Forgetful_Cat
We missed this mog story, but luckily found an old copy today. Great illustrations show a cat that lives with a family and the adults generally blame Mog for everything. Mog alerts the family to the presence of a burglar and is thereafter seen in a better light.A lovely gentle story for young children, when the burglar is caught without a struggle they have all have a cup of tea with the policeman and even the burglar is given a cup, with a saucer of course!
Best British ending ever!-spoiler-they even give a cup of tea to the thief, which makes us laugh every time. A classic!
Delightful!
Mog is so endearing.
I loved how Debbie, the girl in the house, sticks by Mog, even when she has her nightmare about a tiger.
(That double page illustration is my favorite picture in the book.) The illustrations are cute.
Readers who have known any less than brilliant cats and/or cats who find trouble, will especially enjoy this sweet book.
It looks as though there are a lot of Mog books, and I’m sure after reading/listening to this book, many readers will want to read about the further adventures of Mog and the Thomas family.
Aw, I love the 1970 illustrations and the story. The Offspring, not overwhelmed with nostalgia, were less enthused, although they did like the twist.
She was a very forgetful cat." And so begins this hilarious tale of the adorable Mog, a plump kitty-cat who, while she may not have been the cleverest feline out there, had a heart full of love for her human family.
When Mog's forgetfulness precipitates one crisis too many, leading to an unpleasant scene, the poor confused cat flees to the dark garden, where she thinks "dark thoughts," wondering if any of the Thomases even want her around anymore.
And she is always excited when she goes into the garden for she can smell all the smells, chase the birds, climb trees and run around with a big fluffed up tail.However, when it comes time to go back into the house she forgets she has a cat flap (see what I mean by design!) and she will sit outside the kitchen window and meow until one of the children lets her in.
'BOTHER that cat!' everyone declares.But in the end Mog is forgiven, for, having fled the house after Debbie's dream she sits in the garden and spots someone in the kitchen.
I like how the author has set the writing within the pictures as it brings both aspects of the story together.
The writing is short and grouped together making it easier to read for young children who are just starting to learn to read.
By doing this it also brings more attention to each section of writing.
Therefore, making the story more accessible for those reading the book.
There is repetition with the book of saying that Mog is a forgetful cat which is keep drawing the attention back of the children reading the story.
Interestingly, Mog is a cat but has a child like mindset.
After a series of forgetful antics that get her into trouble, she sees a light in the window and meows to be let back in, as a result she saves the day.
The book is not only great to read out loud but the protagonist's (Mog) character can be easily identified by the children as she lives life in the fast lane and in an adventorous and thrilling way.
What children like the most is that she saves the day by mistake.
A bit of a sad tale, but a nice happy ending!
Such a delightful story with equally considered, thoughtful drawings.
I love the plaintiff look of the cat on the windowsill asking to be let in and the boy Nicky kneeling on the counter reaching from a stool to let her in.
I think JK is very good at the ordinariness of the everyday and the inconsequentials.
She seems to have a good understanding of children.
Mog frightens a burglar in their house and he is caught, so Mog is then much appreciated by the parents.
I like the penultimate picture of the burglar having a cup of tea with everybody else!
It's not so much the story, but the illustrations that bring back the fuzzy feeling of being five again.
It was delightful to revisit this children's book as an adult.
The story is about the eponymous cat, Mog, who does usual cat things like "forgetting" they had already been fed and leaving the house through the cat flap and "forgetting" how to get back in and crying at the window.
It's funny as we as adults are well aware that cats don't "forget" - they do these things because it is what cats do, but it's cute to have it framed this way.
I look forward to one day reading this to my children.
There is a classic line in the book that Mr Thomas says which is “Bother that cat”, it is a great story for KS1 children and especially this line as the children get so excited when Mog does something silly or forgetful to the Thomas family as they can all shout up “Bother that cat”.
This is a lovely story that I recently had the pleasure of reading to my year 2 class, we had been doing a cat information booklet for the week in literacy and this book tied in perfectly.
Mog’s forgetfulness is shown throughout the book in different circumstances and the reaction shown by the family is always “Bother that cat!”, the attitude towards Mog is changed when a burglar is in the house and Mog gives a loud meow for him to open the door for her, not realising he is an intruder.
The family are woken up by the loud meow and soon realise who is in the house.
This book would be great for a key stage 2 class where they would be able to guess what the families reaction would be when Mog forgets something.
Mog the Forgetful Cat is a picture book written and illustrated by Judith Kerr.
Mog lives with the Thomas family, Mr and Mrs Thomas and their children Nicky and Debbie.
Mr Thomas becomes frustrated with Mogs actions on numerous occasions, Nicky and Debbie however are more caring towards the cat.
Mog becomes the hero in the end as she thwarts a burglary attempt at the family home.
My daughter has just turned five and Mog the Forgetful Cat is one of her favourites.
In the end Mog is the hero, a real underdog story.
I picked up this book because it was mentioned in Brief Candle in the Dark: My Life in Science by Richard Dawkins as something he was reading to his daughter.
So I got curious.The book wasn't in our library, so I asked for an interlibrary loan and, meanwhile, picked another book by the same author.
Not a book I would read to a kid now, but rather a book that my parents would listen to as kids.The real problem was that other book, The Other Goose.
They are practically identical!
What's the point of writing identical books?
Mog is a likeable character in the book as his clumsy personality is appealing, and the reader is encouraged to feel sympathy when his owners are impatient and misunderstand.
I would definately recommend this story to readers of all ages, as it teaches children that animals too have personalities and deserve to be treated with love and affection.
This book is very suitable for young children, the repition of the phrase 'bother that cat!' when Mog misbehaves would make a lovely book to read to class of children, who could repeat the phrase together.
Its about a forgetful cat who gets into trouble for being careless and forgetful.
She forgets that she has a cat flap and she forgets that she has already eaten her supper.
By the end of the evening everyone has had enough and all you hear is ‘bother that cat’ throughout the day by Mr and Mrs Thomas who are getting fed up.
However, when a burgler enters the house Mog’s forgetfulness is what saves the day.
Simply told and beautifully illustrated the book is funny and where children can join in with the reapted phrase, ‘bother that cat’ which they love to do.
Probably one of my top five favourite books from my childhood.
Mog reminded me of my first pet cat, and I remember laughing at all Mog's funny little adventures.Mog is forgetful.
She wants to please her family and get along with everyone.
"BOTHER THAT CAT!" Is his choice of phrase.
One night, the family's home is broken into - shock, horror!
Who will save the day?!I have just read this book to my three month old son.
I plan to re read it to him until he falls in love with Mog as much as I did many moons ago.
It seems to me that most people think The Tiger Who Came To Tea when they think of Judith Kerr, but it was always the Mog books for me.
I love cats, we had a tabby cat, and I love how poor Mog accidentally saves the day in this story.
Fortunately there are many more Mog books that I also haven’t read that I will get to share with my girls at some point, but this is the one I read and re-read as a child.
This Childrens book was so dang cute! I would like to read more! But I hear it's hard to find copies of them?
Am râs.
Mog the Forgetful Cat by Judith Kerr is by far one of my most favourite children's books.
The repetition in the book of "bother that cat" also make it very engaging for key stage one children as they enjoy joining in with the repeated phrase.
I believe it is also suited for key stage two as they could look at the reactions of the family after each one of Mogs forgetful acts and do a hotseat activity on what they are feeling at that moment.
I've loved the books of Judith Kerr both as a child and as a teacher: beautiful, humorous illustrations and characters. While she is most famous for the perennially loved The Tiger Who Came to Tea, the Mog books were my favourite: I love them now even more because Mog is a great way of introducing growth mindset. She continually makes mistakes and causes trouble for her family, but her flaws are often what end up saving the day. Also, they are hilarious! Just wonderful.
I came across this cute book because a friend took a picture with the book and her cat so I had to check out the book. Mog, gets herself into some situations where she hears “bother that cat” because she is so forgetful. Now, now don’t get to upset or worried about Mog. Of course Mog becomes a hero and saves the day and almost never again hears “bother that cat”. Cute book!
This book tied for my favorite book when I was a kid. Each sentence is perfect, each piece of punctuation, and Judith Kerr does a wonderful and entertaining look into how a cat sees the world while the world looks back at Mog. I love the compassion and tenderness of this book, too.
'Bother that cat!'
ExcellentLovely classic book, my 6 year old boy and 4 year old girl love Mog. * * * * *
Yay for Mog! I fell in love with that face instantly and adore her imperfections.
Cute cat. Good illustrations. The story was trending down about midway through, but picked up in the end. Very civilized drink with a robber. :-)One thumb up from my 2 year old daughter.
The best part of this was the burglar having an awkward cup of tea with everyone at the end. Hilarious 😂
