https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23168817-the-dark-forest
Just felt like explaining the mood this book left me in for the most part: an overwhelming tension that every single human will perish, first in spirit, then in body.
The dark forest is presented as something altogether larger, more terrifying and powerful than humanity.
In this single exchange at the end, my hope was restored, my mood lifted, and suddenly I began to believe perhaps despair is not more powerful than love.
Even such a science fiction book focused so much on showing humanity succumbing to darkness in the end wants to hope in love.Extremely happy to see that the English version of Death's End will be arriving in a mere five months!
A superlative sequel that made its predecessor pale in comparison, The Dark Forest is an excellent middle book that made me finally recognize all the praises that Cixin Liu received.The first thing you have to know before starting this book is that this is a completely different book from its predecessor, The Three-Body Problem.
As someone who’s disappointed with TTBP—although I still think it’s a good novel—I have to agree with this statement because The Dark Forest is in my opinion, a better book, by far.Where the first book revolved around the Trisolaris (name of the alien) existence and background, the plot mostly centered on the preparation for the alien invasion that’s due in 400 years.
Luo Ji has no idea why he was chosen as a Wallfacer, has no real plan, basically winging it throughout the novel – and yet for some mysterious reason, the Tri-solarians are determined to kill him at all costs.Like I said, the premise of the book is exhilarating – and it’s incredibly well developed too, in spite of the clumsy dialogue and occasional info-dump.Unfortunately, the book has one significant problem that I simply can’t overlook.Its treatment of women throughout is appalling.
If you enjoy SF and are prepared for an amazing yet uncomfortable journey, please start with the first volume.
I thought the appeal of the series was in the surprise and the way the author introduced the Trisolari civilization to the reader, the way their invasion was discovered and the originality of the atmosphere in the first book where nothing was certain until almost the end.
I thought The Dark Forest will suffer from a middle book syndrome and it will not be able to surprise me.
In this respect, the novel is very much a product of the many classics of the SF genre that never need to rely on great space battles to tell a good story, and while there IS a space battle, and it's very interesting, it is by far and away the least important message that the novel is wanting to get across.Strategy is the real plot motivator here, like playing an extremely long game of Go. Lies and the game of darkness is necessary and obvious from the start.
Every bit as engrossing as The Three Body Problem, if not more so, The Dark Forest is a masterpiece of scifi.
The characters are deeper here than the first book and the technology and physics are a geek's wet dream.
It is hard to say much about this book without giving put spoilers, but I really appreciated the space elevator, the Killer 5.2 virus, the underground cities, and the descriptions of the solar fleet.
I loved the characters and the good news is that several of them will reappear in the last volume :)If you like or love science fiction, run, don't walk to grab the first volume of the trilogy The Three Body Problem.
The Dark Forest is a brilliant piece of sci-fi literature.
While book 1, The Three-Body Problem, explains the history of how contact was made with the Trisolarians and their intentions, book 2, The Dark Forest, details how humanity is trying to prepare for an unknowable future and what extent will we go to for survival.
The theme has been done before of course, but this is definitely on a whole new level from any other sci-fi story I have read.
However, I am a firm believer if you enjoy sci-fi, then this is a story you need to read.
2nd read It has one of the most stunning chapters I ever read in my life - the one with the droplet: it simply stops your breath; you choke with the words as you read them; and at the end, you'll feel like hit by a train. But I won't praise it again; I did that already. Instead, I will leave one more quote from this incredible work (oops, I did it again :D): "[...] two axioms for cosmic civilization. First, survival is the primary need of civilization. Second, civilization continuously grows an
It has one of the most stunning chapters I ever read in my life - the one with the droplet: it simply stops your breath; you choke with the words as you read them; and at the end, you'll feel like hit by a train.
Second, civilization continuously grows and expands, but the total matter in the universe remains constant.
Every civilization is an armed hunter stalking through the trees like a ghost, gently pushing aside branches that block the path and trying to tread without sound.
The hunter has to be careful, because everywhere in the forest are stealthy hunters like him.
This is the picture of cosmic civilization.
It took a while for the series to gain enough popularity in China to catch the attention of US publishers, but since the first book was released last year, major newspapers like the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, and Washington Post have all published favorable feature articles because Chinese SF is a very rare and unknown commodity in the Western world.The Three-Body Problem was an original blend of mystery, particle physics, global politics, virtual reality games, and alien contact.
The Dark Forest is a stunning sequel to the highly acclaimed The Three-Body Problem and in my opinion, surpassed it by the magnitude of astronomical units.While I hold the first book in high regard, I had to admit that characterisation was sidelined in the narrative which focussed heavily on the science and plot.
Between Luo Ji and another prominent character, Zhang Beihai, a naval political commissar turned space officer, the story and its central plot weave a compelling, fascinating and unpredictable path through the epoch-spanning narrative.Being an ‘ownvoices' reader, I appreciated how much the prose emanates one which is written by a Chinese.
Couldn't put it down. Literally. I neglected other duties for 36 hours. Excellent continuation of the story. Again, fascinating view of drivers of species survival seen through a different cultural lens, somewhat alien to my Western background. I did not expect it to follow the usual paths of English and USA scifi and it did not disappoint. Loved it. Unfortunately the translation jarred at times. Luckily infrequently. But not enough for me to deduct a star.
While we endure 22 hours waiting for our hard SF payoff our main plot points concern a “spell/curse” (which IS eventually explained satisfactorily) and an imaginary girlfriend come to life (which is as out of place and welcome in our story as a turd in a punch bowl).Holy crap was this book tedious.
So I am going to have to be excused for thinking that just maybe the author has some issues with women and/or Mommy that need resolving.As much time as we spent on the “human drama” between cardboard characters and worrying about the morale of humanity once they learn the Trisolarian’s are coming, Liu would just rush through other seemingly massive developments in 2 sentences.
Sequels, specifically second books in trilogies, face an even more monumental task: move the story forward and reveal just enough to leave the reader satisfied while simultaneously getting them to want to pick up the final installment.
The Dark Forest stands on its own by introducing a new cast of characters who will come to face the cosmic horror and improbable survival of humanity in the wake of the arrival of sophons.
The Dark Forest does everything a sequel should: it moves the plot along, it builds on the world established in the first novel, and it tees up enough mysteries for the final installment.
The Dark Forest is an even more rewarding accomplishment than The Three Body Problem - a novel that is both hard SF and social SF, meditative and philosophically dense even while engaging in spectacle, that views humanity in scales epic and intimate.
I'd like to think libertarian fandom simply appreciated that novel's brilliance without regard to ideology, but considering that most of them run screaming from the name Marx as if the mere mention of it will wrap its collectivist tendrils around their brains and assimilate them into the hive mind, the more likely answer is they just didn't understand it.In The Dark Forest, Liu's application of Marx's materialist theory to his future history is so glaringly obvious it practically lectures you on the subject, and the libertarian worldview is very clearly demonstrated to have as many drawbacks and destructive tendencies as totalitarianism.
Pero por personajes, ideas y desarrollo de los pensamientos de los vallados se lleva las 4.
El concepto de “ tú o yo” u “homo homini lupus” (¿civilizas civilitati lupus?) galáctico tb está bien traído.
Los tiempos que dedica a cada fase o a cada momento no los veo acordes a la importancia del mismo.
Las descripciones de los pensamientos de los personajes o incluso del entorno a veces me sobran y a veces se queda corto.
No sé bien cómo explicarlo, ¿ tal vez sea porque la cultura del autor me es muy ajena?...
Porque la cosa está bastante finiquitada, ¿no?
This is more than a Sci-Fi story and its freshness shocks me.The author definitely has a genius imagination but it is the scientific ideas that backs up and moves the story.
3rd, standing at the centre of violent social process and somewhat a testament to the degree of confrontation, the leaders of that organization all suffered personal tragedies.
It is this question that enhances the book from a great Sci-Fi story to something meaningful to the whole mankind.Though equally moved by some of his short stories, especially Mountain and Wandering Earth, I think the trilogy is worthy of its near cult status in China.
A different style from the more 'grounded' Three Body Problem, The Dark Forest goes way more out there.
First it deals with the immediate aftermath of how society would react to preparing for a space invasion, and then it goes hundreds of years later with even more intense ideas.I am, however disheartened (no spoilers!), looking forward to reading the third in the trilogy...Incidentally, an interesting coincidence that I recently read Seveneves by Neal Stephenson which dealt with similar society-dealing-with-the-end-of-the-world themes.
Albeit in different ways.
Stephenson imagined a deadline of two years and modern technology dealing with it, while Liu gives humanity four hundred years and can be a bit more imaginative.
Other authors (Such as Alistair Reynolds with his Inhibitors in the Revelation Space universe) have dealt with this paradox, but Cixin approaches it from a new and interesting perspective, making this novel more than the sum of its imminent-alien-invasion parts.The Dark forest is a book of two quite different halves, one set in our contemporary world, and another set two centuries away.
Structure balance is still a big problem in this book.
Characters are better then the previous book, but still not good enough.
Liu is not good at characters.Beside these problems, this book is just absolutely fascinate.Although I don't fully agree with primary theory in this book, I have to admit it is very well thought and made of pure imagination, philosophy and wisdom.
And Liu has obtained amazing achievement on using the theory to create a story that full of suspense, surprise and conflict.There are a lot of amazing fresh ideas that I've never seen in the other SF books.
Mind blowingly cool.
Best science fiction I've read in some time.
(view spoiler)[The undulations of how society responds to the Trisolaran threat seem surprising to me.
Maybe its more the Chinese perspective, but I wouldn't have thought the ETO would exist in book 1, and I wouldn't have thought people would get so over-confident in our primitive fleet's chances given you have to think that with superior science they would have weapons - and defenses - that would just be as rifles to arrows once were.But the moment when Luo Ji won as a wallfacer was just too cool.
(hide spoiler)]
Liu is very good at tree new bee. He trees really good new bee. Here is the summary of the triology:"3body problem" = "The legend of an avenger""Dark forest" = "The legend of a playboy""Dead end" = "The legend of a bitch"Period.
One of the things I found most compelling about The Three Body Problem was the mystery of just what was going on with the science and scientists of Earth.
Now the reader knew what was going on ((view spoiler)[aliens were planning an invasion on Earth and had sent some very troublesome particles to causes problems on Earth (hide spoiler)]) what would drive the story forward?I think this was where 'The Dark Forest' stumbled.
Effectively, the best way to survive in the dark forest of the universe was to do everything you could to not draw attention to your solar system lest another alien civilization discovers you and, through the cold logic of game theory, sets out to destroy you.
Executive Summary: I'm not sure what happened. I really enjoyed The Three-Body Problem, but I found myself largely bored by this one.Audio book: I don't like when series change narrators between books. I'm also a huge fan of Luke Daniels, but he wasn't really the best fit for this series. So I was willing to give P. J. Ochlan a chance. I thought he was fine, but he wasn't really any better. It would probably just have been better to stick with Mr. Daniels. Full Review After enjoying The Three-Bo
I really enjoyed The Three-Body Problem, but I found myself largely bored by this one.Audio book: I don't like when series change narrators between books.
I'm also a huge fan of Luke Daniels, but he wasn't really the best fit for this series.
I thought he was fine, but he wasn't really any better.
I struggled at the start of that book, but ended up largely enjoying it.
I'm not sure if this has more to do with the change in translator, or if I just didn't notice as much in the last book.The characters were pretty bland again, save for the cop again.
Very goodThe writing varies from excellent to clunky, but the ideas and story are great. Some old characters return, as the story moves to the future. Lots of intriguing science stuff and ethical conundrums. I will now read the next book.
Reading this book compared felt like going backwards in time in terms of Liu's writing ability.Regardless of whether I've pinpointed the cause, the result was that I had an incredibly difficult time getting into this book, and put it down in February, not sure when I'd pick it back up.
I'm hoping I'm not proven wrong about that when I finally get to that last book.Original "DNF" Review 2/27/16: I'm really having problems with the translator on this one, and it's due back at the library tomorrow.
The first half of Cixin Liu's novel The Dark Forest (a follow-up to his Hugo Award-winning book The Three Body Problem) is a very good science fiction story.
The way humanity's confrontation with the Trisolarans plays out - as both Earth's fate and Luo Ji's plan are revealed bit by spine-chilling, mind-bending bit - had me turning the pages frantically to find out what would happen next.I won this first-read copy of The Dark Forest in a Goodreads giveaway earlier this year, and haven't even read The Three Body Problem yet, but I will definitely be reading it now.
You can read The Dark Forest on its own - enough of the previous plot is explained in the book - but Cixin Liu's writing certainly has me intrigued enough to sample his other work.
And Liu’s ultra-pragmatic Dark Forest deterrence theory, among many other things, blew me away to such an extent that I might not look the Fermi Paradox, the same way ever again.Though Dark Forest picks up exactly from where Three Body Problem had left us, by roughly building its premise from and post events of its predecessor; the novel can stand alone well on its own, with maybe, a tweaked preface.
In my opinion Three Body Problem was a bit demanding, with its groundwork in remote history and near future scientific principles; The Dark Forest on the other hand, felt more accessible, as an extended reaction towards the First Contact story line.
Brilliant. Not perfect, but brilliant. The Dark Forest idea is an interesting answer to Fermi's paradox. Of course it depends heavily on the initial assumptions: that matter in the universe is finite and that life increases exponentially. The analogy of the bacteria in the sea provide an interesting counterargument here. A straight exponential increase fills the oceans with bacteria quite rapidly. But of course, that's not what really happens. Really original ideas in any case. Strange to me, though, how prevalent western (and especially Christian) images are.
Todo lo que hay decir sobre éste libro se lo he leído a @Odo, o sea que nada que añadir. Es una maravilla. Ahora a esperar al 15/3/18 q parece que Nova sacará el último de la trilogía traducido.... Me voy a llorar a un rincón mientras espero.
If the Three Body Problem had lots of moments when it was fun to read it, this one was one of the most depressing experiences I have ever had while reading a book.
The despair, the anger and the sadness that I felt in those moments made me want to stop reading and when a book can have such a big influence on my emotions, I know that I’m reading something that I will never forget.
The one thing The Dark Forest had in common with The Three Body Problem is the writing, it’s so good and effective.
