https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/203073.The_Apprenticeship_of_Duddy_Kravitz
I threw the book across the room when I finished.
"The Apprenticeship" follows Duddy through his various scams and schemes to acquire his very own promised land - with the ultimate goal of being someone.The maxim of "a man without land is nothing" is an interesting one, because we never really know if old Simcha Kravitz meants that literaly or not.
Coming from a Jewish man who had fled Europe at the begining of the twentieth century, such a statement could have been about a few acres to look after himself, but it could also have meant land in the broader sense - a place one feels like they belong to, where they can plant their roots and feel at home, a motherland.
A Jewish kid growing up in Montreal during world war two, in a motherless family and mostly left to his own devices, Duddy Kravitz is basically a decent human being, deep down inside, somewhere I’m sure there’s a modicum of decency.
In order to gain possession of this land, Duddy first tries working legitimately then begs, cheats, steals and screws over just about everyone in his life, even those that should have left him long ago.
The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz reads more like a memoir than a fictional account, a coming of age story for a Jewish con artist from Montreal.
Gli occhi neri erano cerchiati di occhiaie scure e le guance pallide e ossute erano coperte di graffi, dato che si radeva due volte al giorno per stimolare la crescita della barba".
Leggendo del giovane Duddy ritrovo il seme di quel Barney che poi crescerà.
“Un uomo senza la terra non è nessuno, ricordatelo, Duddy” gli dirà l’amato nonno Simcha.
Una lettura piacevole.
Una riflessione sulle molteplici vite che l’uomo può condurre.
“Un ragazzo può essere due, tre, quattro persone potenziali, ma un uomo una sola: quella che ha ucciso le altre.".
Proprio come Panofsky, Duddy è un personaggio che nella realtà disgusterebbe chiunque, ma che sulla carta diventa uno di quegli eroi negativi per cui ci si trova a fare il tifo: da lettori non possiamo fare altro che sperare nella riuscita delle sue malefatte e di vederlo raggiungere finalmente un obiettivo che, per quanto egoista, pare giustamente guadagnato.Richler, come in tutti i suoi libri, è ironico e autoironico: il suo essere ebreo non gli impedisce di prendere in giro chi fin dall'infanzia l'ha circondato, irridendo i comportamenti del popolo eletto e inserendo nei suoi racconti tipiche espressioni yiddish, spesso anche al limite del turpiloquio.
"L'apprendistato di Duddy Kravitz" scorre facilmente così come gli altri romanzi di Richler, lasciandoci un protagonista sopra le righe che, nel suo essere scorretto oltre ogni limite, commuove in certi suoi comportamenti e in certe sue ingenuità, rendendolo per questo tanto umano.
Da quel momento in poi farà qualsiasi cosa per diventare proprietario di una serie terreni scoperti per caso e disposti attorno ad un lago.In realtà, Duddy non dovrebbe esserci per niente simpatico.
Forse perché Duddy è anche quel modo tenero di chiedere della madre morta quando lui era piccolo.
Forse perché Duddy è anche quella forza di credere nei sogni a dispetto di qualsiasi realtà avversa.
Forse perché Duddy è anche quello che, bene o male, tiene in vita i desideri di tutti gli altri componenti della famiglia.
Indeed, Duddy’s long memory figures prominently in a novel that is, as its title implies, his personal journey into adulthood.One of the best tricks that Richler pulls off is managing to make a short span of time feel like over a decade has passed.
And for a short time, it feels like Duddy will actually manage to shake off this obsession with land … for a time.In the end, Duddy brings his family to see the lake and all the land he now owns.
Another thing that's fun about Richler, which I think is also the reason why his books can be found on my parents' shelves: Canadian-Jewish society seems pretty Easterneuropean.
Yet another thing that endears me to Richler is that his characters are hilariously politically incorrect, displaying an equal-opportunity combination of antisemitism and antigoyism (what's the word for that??) and condescension towards frenchcanadians and mistrust of the dreaded (and revered) white anglo saxon protestants.
The gags never stop coming, except to allow megadramatic moments that will leave you (i.e. left me) exasperated at the bad behaviour of some character (usually Duddy).
4.5 Gros coup de coeur. Quelle histoire! Le pauvre Duddy, né pour un ptit pain dans une famille peu éduquée et peu fortunée, décidé de changer son destin. L'ambition, la mégalomanie, l'espoir incarnés par Duddy sont menés d'une main de maître par Richler pour dépeindre une époque, une condition sociale, et critiquer le milieu juif montréalais. Richler est définitivement un auteur que je vais continuer à lire!
This was a reread, slowly, over the last month or so.
I am not sure what to say about it.
I can't say it's my absolutely favourite Mordecai Richler - Solomon Gursky Was Here is probably that.
Duddy is one of Richler's great anti-heroes, and because he is so thoroughly that, it makes him difficult to write about.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
An entertaining coming-of-age, North American immigrant tale, with a well drawn, lovably roguish, morally wobbly protagonist.
I enjoyed it, yet it felt instantly familiar, y'know?
Maybe it's the Saul Bellow territory...young man on the make, etc; cast of spivs and strivers; the smell of fried liver.
It's something that often happens when I read north American novels of the fifties and sixties: everything goes Instagram filter and is instantly nostalgic and touching...
A bit like how I imagine someone reading about London (who's never been there) will struggle not to see fog and wrought iron lampposts.
So: hard not to like really.
Per gli amanti di Richler,Si, mi sono immaginato Duddy Kravitz con le sembianze di Barney Panofsky, lo ammetto (che poi per me puó avere solo la faccia di Larry David, per quanto stimi Giamatti come attore, non c'entrava un fico secco).
Peró non dall'inizio, bensí verso la seconda metá del libro.
E cioé quando il giovane Duddy era ormai schiavo del sogno (non suo) che va rincorrendo ed al quale sacrifica tutto ció che gli é piú caro.
Come se l'"apprendistato" del titolo non fosse altro che la corruzione dell'animo di un uomo adulto.
(J'ai vraiment hésité longtemps entre quatre & cinq étoiles...! Parce que c'est pas un livre parfait, mais en même temps, je sais pas -- ça fait très très longtemps que j'ai pas été happée comme ça par un roman. Donc, soyons généreux! Cinq étoiles pour Mordecai & ses St-Urbain street urchins.)
A man without land indeed,
Sometimes achieving the American dream requires a Faustian bargain. Brilliantly told story about a poor Jewish lad who is determined to own land and become a success... at any cost. Yes, he's a conniving user of people, but you end up rooting for him too. I would imagine the moral, emotional and financial struggles he experiences are a fair representation of what many entrepreneurs go through. Highly recommended!
My first Mordecai Richler read but certainly not my last. Really snappy prose and dialogue, and a very enthralling plot. Despite being written nearly 60 years ago, the character of Duddy Kravitz feels like he would fit right into a modern prestige dramas on HBO, and his whole arc is very satisfying. Really interesting to get some historical takes on what Montreal was like in the early 50s as well.
Duddy Kravitz, a Canadian Jew, scrambles to make something of himself. Not bad. I want to see the movie starring Richard Dreyfuss.
Wonderful, witty and sharply observed.
Décidément, lemonsieur sait écrire.Quel univers que ce monde juif de Montréald'après-guerre.Et quels personnages que ces Duddy, Lenny, Max le père, Simcha le grand-père.
Tous ces rêveurs obnubilés par la réussite, la création d,un monde meilleur et qui semblent s'évertuer à ne pas y parvenir.
En ce sens, je songeais à Bonheur d'occasion de Gabrielle Roy.Les personnages de femmes par contre, bien de leur époque, montrentle chemin parcouru depuis et paradoxalement, tout le chemin qui ne l'a pas été.
Et je comprends que ça ait donné un film que j'aurais bien envie de voir.Univers cependant hautemetn déprimant...d'où le 3 étoilesws.
One day, Simcha tells Duddy that "a man without land is nobody," and this sparks Duddy's successive materialistic drive -- after this point in the novel, Duddy goes from being a trouble-maker, to being a single-minded young man on a mission, who will do almost whatever it takes to get himself a nice piece of land and become a 'somebody.' Part of Duddy's complexity lies in the fact that, while he is materialistically-motivated, he also plans to make his grandfather proud and happy by giving him his own portion of the land and a farm to spend his remaining days on; meanwhile, Duddy is also seeking love/pride/attention from his father and uncle, and he goes out of his way to help his family, especially his much-lauded brother Lennie (who he saves from self-destruction).
Mordecai Richler was a giant of Canadian lit, some people said. Most people also said he was a complete and utter asshole. A few chapters in on audio, those asshole vibes were starting to gather force in the story, so I read the plot summary on Wikipedia and decided to bail. This is a Canadian classic I do not need to read. Maybe a Canadian writer I can skip, too, although I hear his Barney's Version is good.
It’s not what you achieve but how you achieve it...salutory ending. If the start feels difficult, please persevere. It takes flight about page one hundred and the altitude keeps climbing. For writers there is a terrific lesson here in how to keep a reader entranced when the main character is morally dubious.
It’s not that this is a bad book. It’s well written. But Duddy is such a little shit of a character that it made it hard to enjoy the story.
He murders the others.” 4/5 stars.ebookRead from January 23, 2018 to February 4, 2018.Review at The Pluviophile Writer: https://bit.ly/2IQZt1MA Canadian classic; there are not many books that embody a French-Canadian setting and receive as much praise and success as this one did, especially with a protagonist as despicable as Duddy.Saying that Duddy Kravitz is ambitious is an understatement.
"A man without land is a nobody." As you follow Duddy's life from a young age, you see that Duddy is as smart as he is cunning and his extensive risk taking is starting to pay off.
It’s shocking to me that this novel was published in 1959.
It feels just as unflinching and edgy as something that would be published today.
The main character is about as “anti-” as a hero gets, and yet I couldn’t help but root for him to get his land and become a somebody.
His questionable tactics and actions don’t go unchallenged by the author or the other characters, but it never veers into a preachy moral fable.
It’s messy and hilarious, but you can’t help but admire Duddy’s tenacity and – as his father calls it – nerve.
I’d never heard of the late (2001) Mordecai Richler or The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz until my Canadian son-in-law gifted me with some north-or-the-border classics the Christmas.
It turns out that Duddy is a gifted businessman, adept at conceiving moneymaking ideas and gathering the resources to fulfill them.
One day Duddy said it would be okay if only Milty agreed to drink the secret initiation potion first.
You swore to God, Duddy.” “It’s terrible,” Duddy said, “but this means your beezer is a cinch to fall off and you’ll never grow a bush.
. .” How and/or whether Duddy sheds his creative cruelty I’ll leave to your reading.
Se avessi conosciuto Mordecai Richler con questo libro, mi sarei fermata sicuramente qui.E invece, memore de La Versione di Barney, dei suoi guizzi di spirito, l'ironia arguta, i bellissimi personaggi, ho intrapreso con entusiasmo la lettura di questo apprendistato ma Duddy non è Barney e il libro risulta smorto, quasi senza intrigo e un po' noioso. La traduzione inoltre non convince.
Un ragazzo può essere due, tre, quattro persone potenziali, ma un uomo una sola: quella che ha ucciso le altre.》Questa frase è stata una cannonata.
Manca il vero sporco, lo sporco c'è ma è un po'...leggero, credo più per la prosa (veloce) e per il tempo (veloce anch'esso) che gli vengono dedicati che per i contenuti in quanto tali, oppure è a tratti inverosimile, molta carne al fuoco: insomma, per qualche insondabile ragione, mi sono "divertita" troppo.Quella frase, però, m'ha dato fastidio: "Mo sei contenta?" direte.
Certo, ha un suo codice d'onore - per la famiglia ad esempio - ma agli altri non risulta sempre chiaro, tanto che Yvette gli arranca dietro come un braccio destro perplesso, al tempo stesso affascinata e disgustata dal suo cinismo.
Quelle del "Crociato" ad esempio, l'unica rivista al mondo pubblicata per gli epilettici dagli epilettici, sono un fantastico esempio di come la scrittura sia puro divertimento e gioco di parole.
Kravizt si presenta invece come uno scugnizzo immerso nella lotta per la vita fino al collo, che ci sguazza ed è soddisfatto di arrancare.
Duddy took advantage of everyone in his way as his quest for money and land consumed him.To say he was unlikable is an enormous understatement.
He displayed not a single redeeming quality and the way Richler told the story apparently was employed in order to emphasize that this book was a character study and no more.
The book was told almost from beginning to end, with nothing but dialogue.
Very little narrative thrust was spent on describing the setting or even the other characters, whom we learn about through Duddy's descriptions.At the end, when you think there might be a resolution or at least a comeuppance to his horrible treatment of others we're left seeing that the author provided none for this dismal character.
