https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4501615-the-revised-penal-code
By hook or by crook I need to finish this book from the front cover to the back cover.
I love Criminal Law (this is me convincing myself!) I love my professor ( I'm convincing myself again).
For example-- the book cited a case about frustrated robbery.
Another is in attempted murder-- the knowledge of the perpetrator of whether he wounded his victim ( like when after the perpetrator fired a gunshot, he fled for fear that he was not able to hit the victim and that the latter will retaliate, then the crime is only attempted )is not anymore controlling in our laws.
goods
This is probably one of the most exhaustive books that you will read in law school. It is very verbose though in a positive note it explains the article fully. Read it together with codal and Crim Law Reviewer.
why i cant open this?i have to read this..huhu..help
The Revised Penal Code contains the general penal laws of the Philippines. First enacted in 1930, it remains in effect today, despite several amendments thereto. It does not comprise a comprehensive compendium of all Philippine penal laws. The Revised Penal Code itself was enacted as Act No. 3815, and some Philippine criminal laws have been enacted outside of the Revised Penal Code as separate Republic Acts.
Luis B reyes
The thickest book I have! Criminal Law I is ❤
fsadf
Its Very Difficult Criminal Law. by Luis B. Reyes
criminal law
i think its time for me to read this book, because my assignment found here.
i cant open it
its very helpful.
i need this book
i cannot open it..
looking forward to understand criminal laws with this book
law1
I think I want start reading
i think it's hard to find.
intetesting book to read on.
Can I read this for free? Really need but can't afford :( Help me :'(
i didn't read yet.
Just because I'm taking examination..
Self studying law atm! This book belongs to my parents.
Great
m
can help us to more or to have knowledge about the revised penal code
nathng
excited to read it
self study of course! i really need this book ;)
