https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18526939-death-on-the-cherwell
For me this book was like the Curate's Egg - good in parts!
I really enjoyed the conversations that the girls had, and also the book was lifted for me when Sally's sister arrived and later when the Burse's niece finally appeared in Oxford after much discussion of her arrival.
There were also a couple of stand out sections such as the incident with the poetry book in Blackwell's Bookshop which was very funny.
Obviously, when you read this, you can’t help but compare it to Gaudy Night if you’re a Sayers fan, or at least versed in your Golden Age crime fiction.
The characters get all entangled in solving a mystery half for the fun of it, although there is the same focus on protecting the reputation of the college as Harriet and her peers feel in Gaudy Night.Overall, it’s entertaining, with a fairly obvious (to me, anyway) mystery; it’s an interesting read as part of my ongoing dive into Golden Age crime fiction — but I’m not in a hurry to read Mavis Doriel Hay’s other two novels republished by the British Library.
*3.5 Stars*BLCC buddy read with @bookishsteph1 - September 2016
The rating for the charming little mystery is actually 3 and a half stars. The novel had an interesting plot, but the writing style was weaker than the plot.
She appeared to have drowned but as several people remark you can't actually drown in a canoe and to drown in the river and then put yourself neatly back in the canoe is an impossibility!The Scotland Yard detective takes his career in his hands and enlists the four girls in his search for the truth as they can probably find out some of the facts more easily than he can.
It has stood the test of time very well overall and will be a delight to the many twenty first century fans of the Golden Age of British crime fiction writing.
School-set murder mysteries are one of my pet genres and this was really good, plus it's set in Oxford which is my happy place.
The introduction to this edition is especially good as it reminds us of the sort of Oxford-set murder mystery tradition and does mention Gaudy Night.
While Death on the Cherwell doesn't delve as deep into gender issues in academia and in institutions in general as the masterpiece that is Gaudy Night, it does contain some very interesting details and some commentary on that.
"Death on the Cherwell" is a mystery that was originally published in 1935 and is set in Oxford.
Four girls from the women's college started investigating the mystery (giving it a cozy mystery feel), but soon Detective-Inspector Braydon arrived from Scotland Yard.
He asked the girls to tell him the information they had uncovered, set them to explore potentially useful (and less disruptive) avenues, and pulled various clues together to discover whodunit.There were many, tangled clues, but it wasn't difficult to guess whodunit by the time the detective named his suspect.
There was occasional use of bad language.
Written in 1935 and this is fairly obvious by the style of story telling which does occasional get a bit irritating. On a January afternoon in Oxford the body of the college bursar of Persephone College is found dead in her canoe by four of the college's students. It is these Persephone girls who suspect foul play and decide to investigate.A NetGalley Book
The bursar of a women's college in Oxford comes floating down the river - drowned and yet still in her canoe.A straightforward sort of mystery. It jumped around through quite a few characters though and I was sorry the original amateur detectives gave way to a police detective.
At times I found it less of a crime thriller and more of a social commentary of a rather elitist society.Whilst there is a crystal clear description of the college setting, I wasn’t really able to distinguish between the undergraduates especially well, except perhaps for Draga because she is ‘foreign’.
Reading Death on the Cherwell as a fast-paced crime thriller of the kind with which we are now familiar might leave readers disappointed.
When I’ve finally made up my mind what I think I’ll let you know, but I would say, read Death on the Cherwell for yourself and make your own judgement.
It's the kind of book I would generally prefer to read in e-book, but the covers of this series are so delightful, I had to have one.*In the opening chapters we meet four undergraduates of a girls' college in Oxford, who are gathering to form a secret society.
I definitely recommend it, not as a work of outstanding genius, but as a charming read and an interesting recovery from mid-century obscurity.*As it happens, the US publisher (Poisoned Pen Press) has generously sent me an ARC of the forthcoming 'The Division Bell Mystery' in epub, and I'm every bit as delighted by it as by Death on the Cherwell.
I couldn’t read beyond 5th chapter it was not at all appealing and the characters I found to be too silly and the ladies were all busybody and hard to believe types
When undergraduates from Oxford's all-girl Persephone College meet on a cold and dreary January afternoon by the River Cherwell for a certain mysterious confabulation, they are surprised by a canoe floating, apparently empty down the river.But as it passes close by beneath them they quickly realise that it is not empty and that there is someone lying in it.
They pull it ashore only to discover that it is the body of their erstwhile bursar, Miss Myra Denning.It seems at first as though she had drowned for she was soaking wet but it is soon realised that she would have been unable to get back into the canoe had that been the case.
The British Library has been reprinting lesser-known Golden-Age mysteries in the last several years under its "Crime Classics" imprint, including three by Mavis Doriel Hay, of which _Death on the Cherwell_ is the second (the first is _Murder on the Underground_, and the third is _The Santa Klaus Murder_).The setting is a women's college at Oxford, where the much-despised Bursar, Myra Denning, is drifting lifeless in her own canoe.
And why?Given the setting and the fact that Hay's novel originally came out the same year as Dorothy Sayers' masterpiece _Gaudy Night_ (1935), the easiest way to assess _Death on the Cherwell_ is to say that it's no _Gaudy Night_.
This is another re-released British Library Crime Classic.
Death on the Cherwell involves a group of young women, students at an Oxford Women's College, who have formed a secret "club" or group, mainly it seems for the purpose of complaining about the college bursar, Miss Denning.
The girls find the bursar dead, at first apparently drowned, but very quickly found to be murdered.
They join in investigating the murder with Detective Inspector Wythe.
I liked it but not as much as the John Bude books, also released as part of this set by the British Library.

An enjoyable mystery, but nothing remarkable, in my opinion.
Murder at a ladies college in Oxford. Persephone College's bursar was an efficient officer of the university but not well-liked by the students. A group of them meet to form a league and at their inaugural meeting discover her body in a canoe on the Cherwell. Rather lightheartedly they decide to investigate -- as do the police.
There were so many elements here that are reader catnip for me - Golden Age mystery, all-girl college, Oxford, eccentric gentry, etc. And yet, I found this a wee bit tedious and doubt I'll remember much about it. It just seemed pretty mediocre and boring and I wish it had been better.
Good ending
In the meantime, though, Miss Cordell, Principal of Persephone College, just dreads the publicity that this death is going to bring to the school, one reason why later, the main character Sally (one of the undergrads) realizes that "There'll be an awful tamasha about this," and decides that she and her friends should do all they can to "help try to clear up the mystery, " so as to "find it out so that Persephone doesn't look silly." That's not the only reason that the girls decide to get involved -- their fellow student Draga, a "Yugo-Slav," had already made her feelings about Miss Denning known after the bursar had, as Draga puts it, insulted her.
Several first-year students have met on the roof of the college's boathouse to form a secret society of sorts, designed to express their dislike of the college bursar, Myra Denning (who seems to be rather universally disliked by the entire student body, as well as the staff).
They have hardly begun their planned ceremony initiating them to secrecy when a canoe comes into sight--bearing the body of Myra Denning.
Soon the two men find themselves with entirely too many people having been in the area where the drowning must have taken place, everyone coming and going on the footpaths, through the fields, and over the footbridge, all without, apparently, encountering one another.
I bought this book purely because I lived on the Cherwell for a bit, and it was featured in a local Oxford books display in the Oxford Waterstones.It was a fine golden age detective yarn, although I found when I finished I couldn't help comparing it unfavourably to later books, especially a particular Sayers (although probably not the one you'd think).
The end was also fairly abrupt, and I couldn't help wanting to know the fallout of the ending – again, something that Sayers excelled at.After having finished, I find myself with very little memory of the book itself.
This is the second book I read from this author, and the last one in a sequence of 'crime classics' published by the British Library.
As I've been saying about these classics, they're mostly delightful in their naiveté and, at the same time, ingenuity.
The first one, I believe, is due to the time when it was written.
By then there were no CSI experts or advanced technology to ascertain that a single hair was from A, B or X.
Also there wasn't that pesky need to get warrants, for instance.
That's why the investigation depended heavily on the second one.

This is one of those cosy crime books in which you can guess the culprit, because it’s obvious who isn’t!
Nonetheless, it’s an enjoyable story (and my favourite of the three mysteries written by the author), particularly if Oxford is in any way familiar, because the action moves between real and recognisable re-named places in the city.
Whilst the death of Persephone Colleges Bursar is solved by the likeable Scotland Yard detective, he is assisted by a group of enthusiastic women undergraduates, lending more charm to the story - and the book also includes the reappearance of characters from Murder Underground.
A romp around Oxford; that's generally worth the price of the ticket for Golden Age fiction and it (for the most part) works here. The mystery is thin and not particularly perplexing, and there's plenty of weird British prejudices to go around so be prepared, but the read is a fun one. Not stellar but a nice read for a rainy day.I received an ecopy from the publishers and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
Golden Age of Crime murder mystery and again, a lovely twisty story about the death of an Oxford college bursar found drowned in her own canoe. Really? Apparently! The college students are a bit squeaky and shouty at the start, but soon calm down and when Scotland Yard arrives to investigate.First published in the 1930s, it's not a hard read at all.
The suspicious death of an Oxford women's college official is investigated by Scotland Yard as well as a group of young coeds. This is an entertaining period mystery that is much influenced by the period of British history when there still was a large empire.
#52books2018 number 49: Death on the Cherwell by Mavis Doriel Hay. Enjoyable romp through female undergraduate and boffin life of 1930s Oxford. Not a patch on DLSayers, but a pleasing enough murder story nonetheless
