https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/170529.What_My_Mother_Doesn_t_Know
I just re-read this book because the sequel came out and I wasn't surprised that I loved it even more the second time around.
The main character, Sophie is a 14 year old, high school freshman whose intelligence and insightfulness isn‘t tragic or leaves you thinking ‘yeah, this character is formulaic or too good to be true thus IS fictional.
Been there, done that… wish I’d written this book (read: story of my life.)*MFA (Museum of Fine Arts)--When I was in college we were able to get into the MFA for free and since the very mention of ’college’ indicates just how broke I was… I spent a great deal of time here.
This book wasn't horrid, I just think it was too immature for me. This narrator is so immature and I didn't really enjoy reading from her POV. The story was easy to follow since it was written in verse, but it just stood kinda "meh" with me. It wasn't bad, just not anything special. Only took me about an hour to read.
I learned in this book that you dont have to think that someone is who they are by the way that they look, or how they talk or walk or anything like this, and when you really think about it you have more than one flaw, and this book kind of makes you realize that you shouldnt treat people the way that someone else does because other people are doing it, or the way they look, because you dont really know that person until you spend time with them, and also not to watch life go by, because it is short, and you will miss out on a lot.
First off, I didn't get to finish this book.
But I severley doubt that I would have changed the rating even if somewhere in the last fifty pages the story got any better (or even mildly interesting).And dont even get me started on the creepy sluttiness of the main character, because I may not stop talking.Honsetly, I'm kind of insulted that this is what people think a "typical teenager" is like.
Maybe I'll be nice and say 1.5 stars instead of just one, as the ending did make up for a  little  bit of the book.
For me, it was one of those books that somewhere along the line turns into music in your head and you don't even realize that you're reading anymore.
It's about a girl (a high school freshman) figuring out who she is and what's really important to her.
Learning about being and staying true to herself, which is probably one of the most important things you can do in high school.I picked it up today and didn't put it down until I was finished, and now I'm going to start reading the sequel - What My Girlfriend Doesn't Know.
Mind you I did the audio, so maybe the narrator k!lled it for me, but luckily I give most audios about 2 CDs before I decide to continue or toss it.
Since this story WAS only 2 CDs I almost changed my approach and tossed it within the first 15 minutes.
When I read about how her boyfriend Dillon wrote her a note and she kept it in her pocket, which almost singed a hole in her clothes, I thought… okay exaggerate much??
After reluctantly giving my first novel in verse a try ("Impulse" by Ellen Hopkins) and falling in love with it, I decided to continue exploring the genre."What My Mother Doesn't Know" is a novel composed of a series of poems about a life of Sophie, a 15-year old boy-crazed popular girl.
The novel takes us through Sophie's dating history, which includes among other boys, an online pervert.
Sones' poems about first real love are so tender, sensual, and touching, they simply can't leave you unmoved.I can't wait to read a sequel to this book "What My Girlfriend Doesn't Know" and other works by Sonya Sones.
Original post at One More PageI heard about  What My Mother Doesn't Know  by Sonya Sones from Angie, but since she wrote about it for Retro Friday, I didn't think it would be easily available here. Imagine my surprise when I spotted this during one of my book hunts. I shouldn't have bought much then, but I'm easily swayed.What does Sophie's mother doesn't know? A lot, actually, especially the ones about her love life. Sophie is in high school and while she says she's not boy-crazy, she can't sto
Sophie is in high school and while she says she's not boy-crazy, she can't stop thinking about kissable lips or obsessing about her boyfriend Dylan.
There's a lot that Sophie's mother doesn't know, and Sonya Sones regales these things to us in this wonderful, easy-to-read novel in verse.I'm really starting to like reading novels in verse.
If Sonya Sones' work are all as comforting as this, then I'm definitely getting her other books.
I love, love, love this book. I read it for the fifth or sixth or seventh time over the weekend, and I fell in love with it all over again. It captures the feelings of first love or rather the process of discovering love perfectly. It also perfectly captures those tense moments of a mother-daughter relationship.And let the record show that this book has never let me down: I have recommended it to dozens of girls who are non-readers and all of them have read it and loved it. It's just so good.
Her 1st love is the dribbling Lou. Sophie is really depressed when he dumped her for Alison Creely but her besties ( Rachel and Grace) helped her get through it.
When Sophie isn't chatting to Chaz, she is trying to get  away  from Dylan because he is just bugging her into insanity.
This is the last straw and a few days later, Dylan is dumped and Sophie is single.
Then there is the schools Halloween dance and Sophie finds herself longing for Dylan, finding out that Chaz is a completly disgusting  perv .
I love verse novels and hers are just so easy to slip into and I think anyone who is an inpsiring writer can learn a lot from reading quality verse novels like this.The way she uses words to so powerfully and succinctly encapsulate emotions and events is just gorgeous.
I adore her characters and the events in the novel and truly feel all those intense and beautiful emotions of being a teen and falling in love and daydreaming and fighting with your parents.
I so recommend her and love her and re-read her often.
I think my favourite of hers is What My Girlfriend Doesn't Know (5 stars).
But I give this one 4 stars of awesomeness.
Rating: 2You see, I found this book lying around on the shelf while I was in a thrift shop… Having a close relationship with my mom, the title really caught my eye; What My Mother Doesn’t Know.
She and most the characters in this book was far beyond too immature and shallow for my taste.“I wish he hadn't gone and cut his hair.He looks about eight years old.His ears have tripled in size.Everyone's started calling him Dumbo.Which wouldn't be so bad,except they've started calling meMrs. Dumbo.You can't even tellhe's got curly hair anymore.There's nothing leftto run my fingers through.Just this weirdblond AstroTurfsprouting out of his skull.”― Sonya Sones, What My Mother Doesn't KnowSo the romance..
WHAT MY MOTHER DOESN'T KNOW is a sweet, funny story told about fifteen-year-old Sophie and her hilarious friend Robin Murphy.
Because it is nothing but sweet and the opposite of a book that should be kept from readers who will find something within its pages that speaks to them.Sophie is part of the popular crowd, while Robin is....not.
Each page is a brief poem told from Sophie's perspective and through her lyrical and brief words, the reader gets a sense for the home life, the school life, the social life she leads.
I've recently started getting a bit more into poetry and books written in verse and I'm still trying to find a story that really captivates me.
The poems hardly feel like actual poetry, but rather like prose,written like this, so it has more pagesand can pass as a bookand not as a short story.
I've read a review for this book that said the actual content of the plot could be put into 50 pages and I totally agree.
But then again: would I have picked it up if it had been a short story?
Would it work as well as it worked written in this format?
I remember when I first read this book, I was 13 and in the 8th grade.
I read What My Mother Doesn't Know in one night and immediately passed it on to one of my friends.
If that doesn't speak for this book, I don't know what will.Sophie's story is one that rings truth among us all.
When everyone else leaves for Winter Break, Sophie and Murphy finally have time to form a friendship.
They are practically inseparable for those two weeks, but what will happen when Sophie's friends come back?
It's a short book and a quick read, but definitely worth your time.
Sophie Stein, is a 14 year old girl, who just got her heart broken by her boyfriend Lou. On the way home from a party, her two best friends, Rachel and Grace, get a ride from Rachel's big sister.
Sophie dumps Dylan and finds out that Chaz wants to meet her and that he is a pervert.
At the school Halloween dance, Sophie wishes she hadn't broken up with Dylan, until she dances with a masked man, which she falls head over heels in love with.
The first day of school, she makes her decision, she sits with Robin Murphy and holds his hands.
Kalau mau jujur, udah berapa lama ya, gue melihat buku ini terpajang di rak buku teen lit setiap kali gue bolak-balik hunting ke toko buku.. Tapi sampai selama itu, gue ngga pernah tertarik untuk menyentuh, membeli ataupun membaca buku ini. Buku ini baru gue beli (dan baca) kemarin, pas ada bazaar buku di Citiwalk Sudirman yang dengan segera gue masukkan ke dalam tas belanjaan bertuliskan Gramedia, dengan gaya seorang  kalap-shopper  (baca: tukang belanja gila yang pengen lompat-lompat kegiranga
Kalau mau jujur, udah berapa lama ya, gue melihat buku ini terpajang di rak buku teen lit setiap kali gue bolak-balik hunting ke toko buku..
Tapi sampai selama itu, gue ngga pernah tertarik untuk menyentuh, membeli ataupun membaca buku ini.
Buku ini baru gue beli (dan baca) kemarin, pas ada bazaar buku di Citiwalk Sudirman yang dengan segera gue masukkan ke dalam tas belanjaan bertuliskan Gramedia, dengan gaya seorang 
(baca: tukang belanja gila yang pengen lompat-lompat kegirangan sambil nari hula-hula begitu melihat tumpukan buku-buku baru seharga tujuh, sepuluh, dan lima belas ribuan.
Begitu lucu, muda, polos, dan menggelitik.Belum lagi jalan ceritanya yang dituturkan dengan sangat polos.
her friend went to this dance and it was all important to her...but she didnt have a date...when she got there she was just sitting around and just watching them dance...when i unknow guy walked up with a mask and started to dance with her...then slow music started to play and she started danceing with him...she felt every touch of her right...critique: i give this book a 5/5 star rating because it is a book that i girl can enjoy and have fun reading.
This was a cute story, though at 200 and some odd pages, I would say that there is maybe 50 pages worth of content in this book; therefore, it is more a short story than anything else.
I would say that Murphey/Robin is by far the best and most interesting character and I would have enjoyed this book much more if he had been the narrator.
Despite my lack of love for Fee, it was kinda cute reading the scenes where these two were together.
All in all, it was an okay read but there was nothing truly memorable about it.
''What my mother doesn't know?'',is a great book and it is ultimately the best girl book ever.It dem
I really enjoyed this book. I believe that I like it because I was really able to connect with sophia. She felt like her mom didn't understand her, her friends make her choice bad things,and her crush. I mostly connected to this book because of her mom and her dad. I feel as if my mom and dad don't understand me either. I would recommend this book to mature readers. This writing was inspirational because Sophia lady her friends for the guy she likes even if they did approve.
I loved this book. The fact that it was written entirely in poetic form just adds to it's brilliance.
I liked this book it was really interesting kinda weird but it was really good to read if your a girl.
This is a super quick read and it's quite adorable.
It's romantic, it's cute and I definitely squealed out loud quite a few times reading it.
I'd very gladly read this again; it's almost perfect.
My only qualm is that it is quite short and there isn't much too it.
Sophie has some lovely development but I feel like I don't know much about her, nor have I seen her development as a character.
We see her as she grows, for sure, but there's something lacking.
Other than that, this was utterly gorgeous, and I can't wait to read more from Sones.
I liked this book a lot it was a quick and easy book to read. It had some interesting parts in the book that I would only recommend this book for girls, but overall I liked it a lot and it was a really good book.
A quick read. I wish it had focused more on Sophie’s relationship with her mother. I felt like those were the really heartfelt moments. I read Saving Red by this author first and I can tell she has really grown as an author.
I really love this book as an example of poetry because it is simple free verse that really packs a punch.
Verse novels are fundamental in helping students understand the impact of poetry and concise writing methods.
This particular book stuck with me because it focuses on Sophie finding herself.
There are some suggestions of sexuality so I would most likely encourage my more mature students to read this one, but they would undoubtedly get a lot out of it.
Gallaghers "What would happen if__" strategy would be a perfect post reading assessment for students after this book.
This was delightful!
How does Sonya Sones do it? That voice of hers has such rhythm, such inflection, such humor and pathos that the words just beg to be read out loud. Who else writes like this? Sones is peerless.
Most books in verse have a complex plot with lots of meaning. I feel like this book lacked the complexity, but had a lot of meaning. Quick, cute, and romantic, I can't wait to read more by this author!
