https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55428.Goodbye_to_All_That
Robert Graves was one of those well-educated British officers who reacted to the First World War with a kind of wise, Oxford-Book-of-Verse horror and had to expunge the experience as best he could through his writing – like Edmund Blunden, or Siegfried Sassoon.
After the war, Graves falls in love delightedly with Nancy Nicholson, who as a feminist and socialist finds herself as set against conventional society as he now feels himself.
What Graves does excel at is describing army life in the trenches; the comradeship, tensions, the idiocy of senior officers (which he describes in cutting detail), the dangers, the squalor and the immediate risk of death.
Graves describes his interactions with other poets; Sassoon, Owen, Blunden amongst others, which are always fascinating.
Graves’s detachment makes it difficult sometimes to locate him in all this and I suspect from his descriptions of his sufferings that this is a defence mechanism.The post war reflections are less powerful, but a number of things stand out.
The opposite of a love letter to Edwardian England, a literary explanation in the form of a memoir of why the author abandoned he land of his birth in favour of Majorca, despite the experiences of George Sand and Frederic Chopin in the Balearic Islands.The book has a striking description of Robert von Rancke Graves' (view spoiler)[ a grand-nephew of Leopold von Rancke on his mother's side (hide spoiler)] formal schooling as perversion, a form of espalier that prevented him from growing freely, instead giving him a series of difficulties that he had to later overcome.Although chiefly a memoir of Robert Graves' service as an infantry officer on the western front during WWI, there is an awful lot more here, the war poets, the English literary scene (view spoiler)[ I particularly liked his meeting with Thomas Hardy(view spoiler)[ Hardy tells how he was pruning a tree one day and had a great idea for a story but didn't have a pencil and paper with him, continued pruning the tree, but once he had finished had completely lost the story.
In 1929 Robert Graves (aged 33) went abroad, "resolved never to make England my home again;" which explains the title.
As a portrait of an age, it is interesting, and moving too.
A Poet at War19 December 2017 As I was wandering through Newtown in Sydney I came across a crate of books dumped at the side of the road. Considering that the law states that if somebody throws something away then it ceases to by anybody's property which basically means that anybody can then make a claim to possess that object, and also due to the fact that they appeared to have begun to be worn down by the elements, I concluded that the owner of these books no longer wanted them. So, I decided
However, every so often you come across a gem, and that is an autobiography written by a really good writer – one of them was Surprised by Joy by C.S. Lewis, and as I started reading this book, I quickly came to conclude that this one was basically up there with the best of them.
However, where Lewis' focus was on his own spiritual experiences, Grave's focus is his time in World War One. In fact Lewis doesn't say all that much about his time in the trenches, but that isn't all that surprising considering a lot of people took years to get over it, if they ever did.
Now remember this, Sergeant Smith: you keep a hundred francs yourself and divide up the rest among the chaps left." He says: "Send my pocket-book back with my other stuff, Sergeant Smith, but for God's sake burn my diary.
I divided up the money and I burned the diary.'""For Anglican regimental chaplains we had little respect.
The colonel in one of battalion I served with got rid of four new Anglican chaplains in four months; finally he applied for a Roman Catholic, alleging a change of faith in the men under his command.
This is a good year to read about World War I and there's no shortage of new material out there for anyone interested in the subject.
Published when Graves was just thirty-four, he wrote in the prologue to the revised edition published in 1957 that the work was his "bitter leave-taking of England" where he had recently "broken a good many conventions".
It signalled Graves' departure for Spain, where he lived for most of the remainder of his life.A middle class public school boy with an Anglo-Irish father and a German mother, Robert Graves served in France during World War I as a lieutenant and then as a captain in the Royal Welch Fusiliers.
I think that it is that very candidness that Graves displays here in spades that makes “Goodbye To All That” a book to be picked up, actively read, and acted upon (how is another question); whereas by contrast I have always found it very difficult to read Wilfred Owen’s poetry (which I find frankly depressing) without my mind drifting off and losing the thread.Finally, in all this talk of war, pages 275 to 360 should not be overlooked: marriage in 1918 to an extreme Socialist (George Mallory lifting off the three-tiered plaster cast of imitation icing to reveal a very modest wedding cake (p.283) a wartime custom I’d only heard of employed in WW2), T.E. Lawrence, John Masefield, Thomas Hardy, and a veritable conviviality of other Great Names.
Young Graves faces two hurdles: British boarding school and World War I.
It’s hard to read the theatricality the way the author may have meant it.A puritanical upper class conformist, Graves is content to be part of the state of affairs he excoriates.
Readers in our day can only too well see World War II just dying to climb out from these pages.Fans of satire might disagree with me as to how effectively it works here.
The particular attraction of Goodbye to All That is for students of World War I, fans of memoirs, people who like poetry (although the book contains none) and poets, and anyone curious about the scandal endemic to boarding schools.
It's 2014 - and the centenary of World War One. I heard a discussion about it the other day and one thing struck me. The idea being suggested was that it would have been BETTER FOR EVERYONE if Germany had WON the First World War. How about that! I never thought of it before, but the logic was compelling. Germany's victory would have stifled Hitler's political career before it got going. There would have been no Versailles treaty, no reparations, no financial catastrophe..... No Nazis.No Holocaust.No World War Two.Just something to ponder during the year.
Robert Graves includes a wealth of little details that bring the day-to-day life of him, and his regiment, to life: the gallows humour, the values of the soldiers, the disillusionment with the war and the staff (and yet the loyalty to their officers), the lice, the food, the other privations.
The book also details his life for the ten years after World War One. Goodbye to All That is an amazing memoir.
For such a short volume Robert Graves packs in so much information and detail, and the book really brings alive day-to-day trench life with all its attendant horrors, boredom, pettiness, depravation, camaraderie and humour.
Recently I have been interested in learning more about the transition from Edwardian England to the years following WW I, about the changes in society and in the attitudes of the people of England as they faced the alterations in their domestic and imperial situation and aspirations.
The first part was interesting in that it provided not only a picture of Graves’ own experiences but also one view of Edwardian life and society, albeit a narrow one since no attempt was made to be panoramic in perspective.
Part two gave a chronological account of Graves’ war experiences during his three to four years of service.
Finally, I would like to read literature that more carefully and thoroughly discusses England’s post-War changes and transitions.
This is Robert Graves's autobiography which he finished in 1929 at the age of 32 or 33. Fortunately, his life didn't end there but as he said himself, many years later, his life after that wasn't worth writing about (again). In his memoirs, he mostly talks about his experiences during the Great War, as an officer in the British Army ( the Royal Welch; yes Welch with a c). This work is a honest, no nonsense piece of art/literature. It was a pleasant and accessible read. I highly recommend this work!
I'm so glad I read this book. Graves's descriptions of his experience during the war and moving, educational and brilliantly written. His experience in the post-war literary circles, his detailed exploration of trench life and his choice of anecdotes throughout overall made this a fascinating, if difficult, read.
This book was written in 1929 as a memoir of his service in World War One. The book covers his early life, his time at Charterhouse School where he was mercilessly bullied, the war and the post war period up to writing the book in 1929.Like many young men Graves enlisted within days of the outbreak of the Great War with no understanding of what war was like.
Graves is best known for his book “I Claudius.”What makes this such a good memoir about the war is that it is not bogged down with ideologies or politics.
As Hartley noted the past is a foreign land and Graves treads lightly.
He and the woman I loved had started a relationship and the riptide of life pushed us far apart.
We shall see.Graves takes the reader by the hand from childhood through the public school and immediately t the Western Front.
No gap years for Graves.
Even more intriguing is the revenue scheme that the Graves family (Nancy Nicholson never took Graves' name for feminist reasons) started their own corner store in the lawn of a neighbor.
Most folks attend to the book because of its Great War account.
Smoothly written and often darkly humorous memoir about the complications of upper crust British boyhood and young adulthood.
The memoir focuses on Graves’s time in the trenches during WWI, and it’s a stirring personal report on the devastation and stress of war (with some moments of wit and humor to lift the mood, such as his account of how he was declared officially dead while he was convalescing).
It ends very abruptly, and so I appreciated his 1957 “epilogue” to the book (which was written in 1929, when he was 33).
The lines that have stayed with me after finishing this book are those Graves wrote about his time in Oxford after the war, when he was experiencing vivid "daydreams" of trench warfare.
It's obvious now that those 'dreams' were flashbacks -- I'm guessing the term hadn't been invented yet -- and Graves says they were always of his first four months in the trenches, that his feeling-apparatus had shut down after that time.As a schoolboy, Graves suffered under the herd mentality at boarding school and was bullied until he took up boxing.
Immediately after his graduating, war broke out and he entered into Army life as a break from school life: he was not looking forward to going to Oxford.
By then, he was 21 and what he'd seen and experienced in three years would defy what most artists could even imagine of an actual hell.This is one of war poems that gripped me as an undergraduate when I first came across it (he somehow wrote and published three volumes of poems during the war, this one edited by his dear friend Siegfried Sassoon).A DEAD BOCHETo you who’d read my songs of WarAnd only hear of blood and fame,I’ll say (you’ve heard it said before)”War’s Hell!” and if you doubt the same,Today I found in Mametz WoodA certain cure for lust of blood:Where, propped against a shattered trunk,In a great mess of things unclean,Sat a dead Boche; he scowled and stunkWith clothes and face a sodden green,Big-bellied, spectacled, crop-haired,Dribbling black blood from nose and beard.The experience inspiring this poem is explored at greater length in the memoir and takes on a supernormal quality, set in the most wretched landscape, as Graves tries to find blankets for his troops (who would "have followed him into hell", and did).
My edition of Goodbye to All That contained the revisions - extensive in certain areas - that Graves made in 1958, when the cooling waters of time, and a pair of acrimonious divorces, combined to convince the author to expurgate his autobiography of certain strident and matrimonial passages that, written in the white heat of an angry, bitter young man, needed to be tempered by the wisdom of future maturity (and a third wife).
L'educazione scolastica molto rigida gli lasciò il segno:"L’educazione religiosa sviluppò in me una grande capacità di provare paura, una coscienza superstiziosa e un imbarazzo nei confronti del sesso dal quale ho fatto molta fatica a liberarmi."A scuola la separazione dei sessi era totale, il sesso femminile era considerato osceno (e scarseggiava) e questo faceva sì che i rapporti omossessuali fosse quasi generalizzati."Per uno che nasce omosessuale, ci sono almeno dieci pseudo-omosessuali permanenti creati dal sistema delle scuole private"L'obiettivo della scuola sarebbe dovuto essere l'insegnamento dei principi fondamentali per formare individui migliori; in realtà la ferrea disciplina, il cameratismo, lo spirito di corpo, la cultura imperialistica, l'ambizione personale determinavano le condizioni per ottenere individui che, in nome di un concetto superiore di Patria e onore, diventassero soldati.Robert si arruola e va in guerra, come ufficiale nel prestigioso reggimento dei Royal Welch Fusiliers.
All the chickenhawks who think war is wonderful and glorious should read this book. Then go enlist.
This, in addition to his joining the British Army for self-interested reasons, prevented strong nationalistic feelings in him toward either country.Except for its extensive descriptions of trench warfare life, I consider this book ultimately a failure, due to two problems.
The only reason at all that we know his angry departure was due to anything other than World War I is the first paragraph of the prologue (written in 1957), which says:I partly wrote, partly dictated, this book twenty-eight years ago during a complicated domestic crisis, and with very little time for revision.
This book is a tale of three periods of Robert Graves's life, which spans his childhood, his involvement in WWI and the post-war years between 1918-1929.
As well, there is a constant undercurrent of bemused irony when events as diverse as whore houses, soldier's suicides, night patrols and the ever-present threat of death are recounted.
As an anecdotal study and commentary of trench warfare this book is very good.His marriage to Nancy Nicholson and their lives together was fascinating to read.
To me, it wobbled between self-serving anecdotes to thinly covered events.
Robert Graves autobiography is only half-completed; I wish there had been more.
Robert Graves is confiding, honest, provocative - not at all like a stiff upper-lipped English gentleman, (Perhaps this is because he was part-Irish, part German?)Most of my knowledge of the First World War comes from reading the poetry of Wilfred Owen, a couple of biographies of Owen, and Pat Barker's 'Regeneration' trilogy.
Graves's account of life in the trenches adds greatly to that picture.
His account of his schooldays, and his marriage to Nancy Nicholson are highly entertaining.
And although Graves seems to have been without self-pity, he gives a graphic account of what would now be called post-traumatic stress disorder.
So we founded the 'Royal Albert Society', its pretended aim being to revive interest in the life and times of the Prince Consort.
Membership was open only to officers who professed themselves students of the life and works of the Prince Consort; those who had been born in the province of Alberta in Canada; those who had resided for six months or longer by the banks of the Albert Nyanza; those who held the Albert Medal for saving life; or those who were linked with the Prince Consort's memory in any other signal way.
The earlier disks are filled with the repetitive miseries of World War I from the soldier's perspective, and also his strange upbringing as an English schoolboy.
The fourth disk provides a lot more variety.
He discusses the war mania in England, the letter from "the little mother," the Spanish flu epidemic, living in dugouts in the coldest winter since 1894, regiments stealing horses from each other for their looks, and a lot of non-war experiences and topics.
There are a lot of interesting tidbits about his life and the world at that time, probably even more in the unabridged book.
Turned out to be an inspired piece of untidiness.I really cannot recommend this highly enough - moving, heartfelt, and you constantly get the impression that Graves is playing his own achievements and contributions down in order to talk up his friends.
This modesty does leave you feeling curiously as though you've not been told the full story, but it's such an interesting tale, and the sections in the trenches are so evocatively captured, that I'll forgive it the vague sense of de-personalisation it leaves you with with it's abrupt ending and refusal to give much post-war detail.
As a historical record this is invaluable: not just for the details of the war from the point of view of an officer in the trenches, but as a record of the class system at the time, the shifting sexual and gender mores, and behind the scenes look into the intellectual lives and friendships of some of the giants of literature at the time.
So if you're a fan of those, it's tremendous fun to look in on them from Graves' point of view.
He's nothing what I imagined him to be, but that's probably because I didn't use to think of him as a poet, but as a historical writer.
From the back cover: “Robert Graves left his native England for Majorca shortly after World War I and, except for infrequent visits, has never returned since.
But in this autobiography written at the age of thirty-three – youth, the war, and Oxford behind him – Graves says goodbye to more than simply England and his English family and friends.
He was sent back to England for recuperation and used that opportunity to let family and friends know that he was alive.
When he ultimately demobs from Ireland – under questionable circumstances – he goes with his family back to Oxford.
