https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6289283-born-to-run
One of these races was the Leadville Trail 100, a 100-mile race at 11,000 feet in which the Tarahumara faced off against an ultra-running prodigy named Ann Trason.As McDougall weaves together the story of ultra-running's past with his own quest to find the Tarahumara and become a better runner, he also relays a fascinating tale about scientific discoveries into our evolutionary past suggesting that it was our ability to run long distances without getting winded, and thus get all that extra protein from the bounding antelope we were able to outlast, that gave us the evolutionary edge needed to grow our huge brains.
I will give two examples:One: who do you think ran the fastest?(a)	Page 15: `Lance Armstrong is one of the greatest endurance athletes of all time, and he could barely shuffle through his first marathon despite sucking down an energy gel nearly every mile.'(b)	Page 157: `...Ted...transformed himself...into...a barefoot marathoner with such speed that he was able to accomplish something that 99.9 percent of all runners never will: he qualified for the Boston Marathon.' [I've already talked about the 99.9 percent]Answer: We don't know because we aren't told their times.
So I picked this book up, thinking it would be a cool story about this lost tribe of distance runners -- which it was -- but I got soooo much more than I bargained for.Yes, I did learn about the Tarahumara tribe, but I also learned about the biomechanics of running and how shoe manufacturers disregard runner safety in preference of turning a profit, ultramarathons and the hardcore runners who participate in them, the lawless culture of Copper Canyon, the nearly lost techniques of persistence hunting, the evolution of the human body, and on and on and on.This is my all-time favourite kind of book -- entertaining, sure, but chock full of information I've never even thought about before.
With its excessive hyperbole, convenient omissions, misleading statistics, logical inconsistencies and plain old errors, I stopped thinking about this book as actual journalism after fifty pages. Trying to read it as a novel wasn't that satisfying either because the book reads like several magazine pieces glued together rather than one continuous work. The personality profiles of Jenn and Billy and the screed against running shoes felt particularly extraneous. However, the book has a fun core of semi-mystical lost knowledge and its someone-recently-brainwashed-to-a-weird-secular-cult tone made the book enjoyable.
(Maybe I was just jealous of their slow twitch muscle fibers.) Most of the time I found the races to be miserable, and looking at most of the runners, it seemed they did too.
I'm not sure if it was oxygen deprivation, or perhaps that amazing runner's high, but midway through the race, I was in nirvana.
In the process, meets a man, Caballo Blanco, who wants to set up a race between these superhumans and the elite ultra runners of the United States.There is so much more to this book than people running.
Painful as it was, I stayed with this until slightly past the halfway mark. I kept hoping I might learn more about the Tarahumara people, but it was not to be. There's very little about the Tarahumara, and almost everything about a bunch of self-absorbed, obsessive long-distance runners. I have no patience with extreme athletes. They need to strive for some balance in their lives. The sport is not everything. I also got tired of the "gee golly wow ain't it all just lipsmackingly wild and amazing!!!" reporting style. A little more objectivity and a lot less hipness, Mr. McDougall.
And now I owe them an apology, because I had gotten so sick of being preached at about chia seeds and running barefoot and vegetarianism and ultramarathons that I have been quietly rolling my eyes whenever anyone mentioned this friggin book.
At its heart, the story is about human endurance, compassion for others, and the theory that our bodies were "born to run." There is a thoughtful chapter on the evolution of homo sapiens from other mammals, and the ways in which the human form is designed to be able to cover an incredible amount of distance.
This has to be one of my favorite books of the last few years. It's non-fiction, but it reads like a thrilling adventure, complete with a high-octane conclusion, all with a bit of science thrown in. It's a fantastic look at the sport of ultra-distance running, but trust me when I say that once you start reading, it's impossible to put down.
I can recommend it to anyone interested in running, indigenous peoples, or wacky characters!This book is about long-distance races over rugged, desert terrain.
It is about a hidden tribe, the Tarahumara, who live in the Copper Canyone area of the Sierra Madre, a remote, desert region in Mexico.
Just getting there is dangerous, as it involves evading drug runners and rugged, roadless desert terrain.
They don't wear running shoes; they usually wear homemade sandals made of a thin strip of rubber.The main story is about a 50-mile race through Copper Canyon in a heat-scorching sun.
Upon finishing this, I spent the better part of the day on YouTube, looking for any additional information I could find on the Tarahumara tribe, chia seeds, Caballo Blanco, Scott Jurek, Ann Trason, the Leadville Trail Race, running barefoot, persistence hunting, even the author Christopher McDougall.
It culminates in one of the most interesting races I had never heard of.Terrific audiobook.
I was sad when it was over.Note: Caballo Blanco passed away in 2012 (this is not mentioned in the book).
Reports say he was found in a canyon in New Mexico, very close to the way he said he hoped we would pass in the novel.
I am not a runner. I hate to run. I would rather die than run. I have zero interest in ever becoming a runner. Yet I've read this book three times. It's about so much more than running. It's interesting as hell, funny as fuck, engrossing, fascinating... I will read it again. You could say I will go running back to it. Many times.
Nearly five years ago I started walking.
Today I came to a lake that had just frozen and frost had blown across the newly formed ice.
It was so incredibly beautiful that I teared up with gratitude for being able to be there and see it.This book "Born to run" is a fantastic story that confirms what I have discovered.
We are, indeed, born to run long distances.
What they have found is a joy of running.
Landing on your heels causes all kinds of problems, whether you are running with air padded shoes or not.
Born To Run was okay. It's not great, it's not stellar, it's not maddening. It's okay. The writing is serviceable. The research is a little spotty, but okay for the type of book this is. It made me want to try running, just a little. That's definitely saying something. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
"Just move your legs.
Because if you don't think you were born to run, you're not only denying history.
You're denying who you are." --Born to Run. This book is really, really simple.
If you do run, it will change your life.
Actually, if you don't run and this book doesn't change your life, something is wrong with you.
The "I can't run because of my knee/back/feet/Achilles tendons/whatever you-fill-in-the-blank" excuses no longer hold water after you read this book.
So, get your copy, get outside, and move your legs.
Get out there, run like a muthafucka, and live bad-ass.
A compelling read, brilliant story and fascinating subject matter, but somehow falls short of being a great book.I'm not sure where it goes wrong exactly, but for me it might have been the number of characters which I struggled to keep track of, the slightly preachy tone of the anti-shoe chapters (persuasive though they are) or the negative coverage of apparently less worthy ultra runners who dared to accept sponsorship or promote their own books.
The case against overpriced running shoes is also extremely persuasive and has got me thinking about what my first pair of 'barefoot' shoes should be.All in all, well worth reading for the subject matter, but not quite the great book it could have been.
Hell, if you only read the part were Christopher McDougall explains why human were born to ultra-runners.In our generation most of the time, researchers are now interested in making running as one of the most interesting sports in the world.
Imagine, scientists doing preliminary examinations and research for year that cost thousands that only give us limited results and sometimes failed us.This super-athletes that we are looking for are waiting for us to discover them but the most important is, are this endangered runners are worth losing in the end?
I can't believe it, I was imagining those things until I finish reading the book.
Με το τρέξιμο αθλούμαστε, κάνουμε ωραίο σώμα, αποκτούμε αντοχές, ηρεμούμε ψυχικά.Φυσικά εδώ το βιβλίο έχει να κάνει με κάτι τρελαμένους τύπους που τρέχουν δεκάδες χιλιόμετρα καθημερινά, που συμμετέχουν σε τρελούς αγώνες μεγάλων αποστάσεων σε ανώμαλες επιφάνειες (βουνά, φαράγγια κ.λ.π.), με το τρέξιμο να δίνει ένα νόημα στην ζωή τους και να είναι ένα από τα σημαντικότερα πράγματα γι'αυτούς.
Στο τέλος, παρακολουθούμε με κομμένη την ανάσα τον απόλυτο αγώνα αντοχής στα φαράγγια του Μεξικού, με διάφορους τρελαμένους δρομείς να συναγωνίζονται τους χαλαρούς Ταραουμάρα.Πρόκειται για ένα εξαιρετικά καλογραμμένο, ευκολοδιάβαστο και εθιστικό βιβλίο, που μπορεί να το διαβάσει κανείς μονορούφι από την αρχή μέχρι το τέλος, σαν να ήταν κάποιο θρίλερ του Στίβεν Κινγκ.
In the words of Eric Cartman, "Goddamn hippies!" This book was a weird mixup of topics: Mexican-Indian runners, American ultrarunners, humans evolution is based on running, running shoes are bad for you, salad for breakfast is the way to go, Nike is evil, everything in life would be better if we all ran way more, etc...
Classic case of "way too immersed in a subject to have any perspective." Also, the "hero" of the book is a guy who spent some time in Boulder (shocking!), gets divorced, drops out of life, moves to Mexico, lives in a hut, runs a lot, and returns to Boulder during the summer to do some "freelance furniture-moving jobs" (hilarious description, the author's words) for cash.
My only complaint was that the book was too short, or that it was so interesting and well written that I read it too fast or that I liked the characters so much that I wanted to go out for a run and have a beer with themBook is written by a runner whose legs are beat up and told he shouldn't run anymore.
DNF at about 10 %I'm actually happy to finally giving in to the nagging and trying this book.
My fear is that he hurt people who could have been happily jogging along now, my hope is that he inspired someone who since have figured it out...This seems to be the kind of book to either get a "1" or a "5".
I know lots of people ignore the "hated it" ones and therefore it is most likely that my review is going to be buried in the small pool of critics of this one.
I loved--and was impacted by--the way he used the stories of The Rarámuri runners and the American and International runners to explore the research on running shoes and how we've been fooled into spending lots of money to get more injuries.
I should also note that I read this book as a runner, as someone who works with and for indigenous people, and as someone who was trying to make sense of her experience in las Barrancas del Cobre back in 2002.
I kept returning to those memories as I read this book, trying to piece together my brief experience with what McDougall describes, and with the reality of what narcotraficantes have done to the Barrancas since then.
Όμως κάποια στιγμή είχα διαβάσει κάτι πολύ ενδιαφέρον σε ένα βιβλίο: Ο συγγραφέας - που στο βιβλίο του μιλούσε για διάφορους τρόπους βελτίωσης της γραφής - ανέφερε ότι κάποτε διάβασε ένα βιβλίο με θέμα την εκτροφή πουλερικών.
Ποιος ο λόγος να συνεχίσεις την ανάγνωση όταν το βιβλίο σε έχει χάσει; Εσείς που ψυχαναγκαστικά διαβάζετε ένα βιβλίο που δεν σας αρέσει μόνο και μόνο από κάποια βασανιστική λόξα του να μην αφήνετε δουλειές μισές - ρε σεις, όσο καλό time management και να κάνει κανείς, μόνο όταν είναι μόνος του ίσως τα φέρει βόλτα με όλα τελειωμένα.
But reading this book dumped the same endorphins into my veins that marathoners get at mile 24, leaving me with a runner's 'high.' It also left me with a nasty distaste of athletic shoe companies for wielding the biggest scam in the market bonanza of athletic shoe sales since Nike glued rubber and foam to canvas.McDougall's absolute bottom line thesis is that running has become worse over the years.
This, despite technological advances to enhance the science of long distance running (studies about form, ergometrics, anatomy, physiology, diet, gear, psyche, and training for altitude, endurance, speed, pace and incline).
Not only did it make me want to be a better runner, Born to Run left me with the feeling that it is mankind's destiny to be runners.Some bits that I want to remember:The author was getting running lessons from a mysterious ultra marathon runner in Mexico:  "Think easy, light, smooth, and fast.
Then work on light.
You won't have to worry about the last one- you get those three, and you'll be fast." pg 111On the perfect design of the foot for running: "Your foot's centerpiece is the arch, the greatest weight-bearing design ever created.
There were several points in the book where I was completely convinced he was going to tell me to purchase Tahitian Noni drinks, or other nonsense.
Running shoes wreck your feet/body, but even some of the extremist runners do fine with them.
It is interesting to consider what will happen with running shoes in the future.
I'm not ready to chuck my Asics--even recently I've noticed that when I walk around for several miles in flip-flops, my left heel absolutely kills.
I'm more of a mainstreamer and less of an innovator, so I'm not ready to run like Barefoot Ted.
McDougall is a journalist, a former war correspondent and current feature writer on extreme sports, like ultra-marathons.
The description of a Leadville ultra-marathon race that took place some years before the main events of the book goes on and on and several times I nearly went to the internet to find out the result because I was tired of flailing away while McDougall kept me waiting to indulge his sense of narrative fun.
This book was so awesome that it almost made me want look at running as something other than torture, and then once I could do that, to start running for fun. Almost.There are a lot of derails (or seeming derails) in this book. So the continuity of the story gets lost semi-regularly. However, the derails are always interesting material, and almost always tie back into the overarching story really well in the end.
My four-star rating is actually a 7 on a 10-point scale, which is the composite score from my three ratings of it, my rating as an aspiring runner, its rating as a story, and its rating as journalism/non-fiction.As a runner, I give this book a solid 10.
I'm not even kidding (however, I thought better of that and decided to stick to my 3-mile jaunts).
And the writing was clear, well paced, and fun.However, this book doesn't bill itself as a novel, it bills itself as non-fiction, and it kind of sucks at that.
This reminded me of one of those great human interest stories you might have stumbled upon in Sports Illustrated back in its heyday.
The personalities were interesting, the pace was good, and the fact that it’s a fringe sport made it all the more fascinating.
To the preternaturally persistent nut cases on the US side add a remote tribe of corn beer-quaffing, peace-loving, super runners from the Copper Canyons of Mexico and you’ve got the makings of a tasty ragout.
Besides, McDougall was one of the runners himself, so he had an excuse for the narrative bonk.
It’s spiritual, heartwarming, with a vein of human compassion running straight through it and that is the real plot of the book.
I think too often we are told we have limitations and, even more often than that, we believe them.
Knowing that we are stronger and more resilient than the thoughts in our head tell us we are (or that society lures is into believing) is the first step towards health.
Compassion and kindness and taking care of our bodies are the ancient, forgotten keys to happiness.
Simple as that.And it’s entertaining as hell to boot.
