https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2666.The_Bonfire_of_the_Vanities
I hope women have put down this book, thrown on some lingerie, and walked over to his apartment – unless Wolfe is gay, in which case, I hope men have done the lingerie thing.
I hope Tom Wolfe has gotten anybody he’s ever wanted – x-ray, lemon tart, girls with any shade of lipstick imaginable, men with impressive sternocleidomastoid muscles.
Practically the minute I started reading it, it made me think of a dear friend of mine because of its urban steel and fire, so I will say something about that association because I can clearly only swoon and sigh and flail about when it comes to the book itself.
When the Eastern Nebraska Men’s Bibliophile & Social Club (a.k.a. my book club) picked The Bonfire of the Vanities by Tom Wolfe, I thought I had a pretty good idea of what it was about and, ultimately, how it’d make me feel.
Take, for example, two separate scenes centered on Sherman McCoy. In the first, he has an internal dialogue about not being able to survive on a million a year: The appalling figures came popping into his brain.
What an amazing book. Wolfe not only tells a great story but is a master of the English language and his prose is rich with multi-layered metaphors, symbolism, allusions, and I was fascinated by the various references to Edgar Allan Poe. I was sorry to finish it. I must now watch the movie again if nothing else to highlight how pale a medium is film when compared to literature.A modern classic.
R.I.P., Tom Wolfe (March 2, 1930 – May 14, 2018)Seer of Hippy Culture then the Insatiable '80s U.S.A./N.Y.C.,Satirist of Avarice and the Cognoscenti Soi-disant, andChronicler of America's Race to Space on the Heels of Its Jet Pilot CowboyQuest for Record Supersonic Speeds "Bullshit reigns." The Bonfire of the Vanities, Tom WolfeA brilliant, shrewdly constructed satire of the 1980s in America, and particularly in New York City. The Bonfire of the Vanities is big, biting and humorous. Wolfe belted
Wolfe belted NYC/USA with jabs, one after another--each simultaneously ruthless and delightful--burning the excesses of Wall Street, tabloid journalism, the social set in the Big Apple, high profile racial violence such as that in Howard Beach, Queens in 1986, the justice system, men's egos and their insatiable appetites for sex and their infidelities to get it, politics, politicians, vigilante justice a la Bernie Goetz (who in 1982 shot up a group of black men who attempted to mug him on the NY subway) and exploitative narcissists who parade as "reverends," seeking self-promotion and fingers in all pots flowing to and from community redevelopment.On satire, Thackeray so mordantly observed in Vanity Fair that “The wicked are wicked, no doubt, and they go astray and they fall, and they come by their deserts; but who can tell the mischief which the very virtuous do?” He was no doubt using the word "virtuous" loosely, in setting out to satirize European society in the late 18th Century.
Oh, bloody Wolfe!Reading Tom Wolfe’s prose is akin to subjecting your nostrils to heavy grey diesel fumes from the rear end of an ancient goods carrier truck; acidic, overwhelming but also strangely, perversely pleasant if you are inclined towards such guilty pleasures.
Man is inseparable from his environment, says Wolfe in loud, clear, refreshingly original words.We have the protagonist: bond trader Sherman McCoy, self-titled Master Of The Universe, star asshole of Pierce and Pierce, an exclusively white Wall Street firm.
Through these characters, Wolfe writes about a selfish, behind-the-back—badmouthing America obsessed with image.
The only reasons it was in 1987 were that:(a) Wolfe was already famous;(b) Wolfe has a BASED Jewish judge (lol!) laying down the law in the penultimate chapter (though the judge's real motive seems to be misanthropic hatred of the mob);and(c) It is written so cleverly that many readers will read into it whatever they want…some leftists even interpret it as a satire on ‘white corporate greed’.Wolfe’s sprawling novel has many themes, some of the more important ones are:1.
This book was good but, as are all Tom Wolfe books, it was long winded and there were too many pages and it could have been cut down drastically. And even though it was too long, the ending seemed as though all those pages don't even tell the whole story.
Conflagration 1: Master of the Universe, bond baron and archetypal WASP Sherman McCoy, has reached the top of his particular tree and is enjoying the view from on high while ensuring that his chin is always seen at the right angle.
Add into the mix a hit-and-run after a wrong turning in the Bronx and it is surely game over Sherman.
Shallow Fallow refuses to pay the bill, scoops the death story as an exclusive and outs the staff as heartless bastards who stepped over the dead man to carry on serving exclusive yuppie mini food.
You like a thing, could be a movie or a novel, and then you find a chunk of it was an artful homage or riff on or nod toward or blatant ripoff of something you hadn’t come across yet.
Also, Tom Wolfe's writing style will not be everyone's decaffeinated macchiato, this perpetual speedy hipster high level ranting, it will be a problem if you don’t like it.
Also, it’s very passe, you know, we’ve had Rodney King and OJ Simpson and Trayvon Martin, we’ve seen all Spike Lee’s movies, even the bad ones, it's all old hat.
This hat is old.But I thought this was a great top-of-division-two novel, for all that.
In another episode was a reversal of role and it that became a subject of much media attention, white guy Bernhard Goetz became something of a folk-hero in the city for shooting a group of black men who tried to rob him in the subway.I could make a long litany of how the characters in this novel participate in the circus trial.
This came into a time when I was not in the mood for this kind of noisy novel.
Unlike in the book that it lasts until you are done with the particularly scene.I only regret the 6 days that I spent reading this long novel.
I remember reading a review where someone called him "a day-glo Dickens".
He's on his way to Hollywood to work on a movie treatment of Christopher Marlowe's Doctor Faustus.
"I shouldn't think so," says the snotty scriptwriter, "He's been dead for 400 years." The mistress is indignant - she was hurt by the "I shouldn't think so".
Sherman thinks about it, but the only thing he can remember about Christopher Marlowe is that you're supposed to know who he was.The mistress is married to a much older, extremely wealthy man.
"You know, I bet she studied the actuarial tables," he says disgustedly.
But about 100 pages in I started to feel confused about whom I actually felt sympathetic toward (the only truly good character never gets to speak).
It's a study of how people will use each other and not even notice how they are routinely used by other people until they're of no use to anyone.The book explores racial and class tensions in New York City in the 80's, but from a distinctly white male point of view (there are plenty of female and black characters; Wolfe just doesn't get into their heads).
This is, of course, to say nothing of the lamentable content that this jake-legged prose trots across the page--the less said about that, the better.
Upon picking up your intriguingly titled (alas, the titles that sing, but what wastelands between the covers!) first foray into fiction, I must admit I had my reservations.
And, I mused, if he got it wrong, if he, perhaps, took literary license that was perceived as misrepresentation, who gives a shake about the just representation of these feral children with their boom-bap, boom-bap music?Alas, my trepidation proved well-founded.
This book--your prose,the flaccid arc of its plot, your graceless stabs at the Dickensian--bored me straight to tears.
"I don't care who you are, sometime in your life you're gonna be on the wrong side a the law, and some people got the heart for it and some don't."Dickens without Dickens, this book with its overkill title (view spoiler)[ one character gets burnt, a couple of others mildly singed, and there is no Savonarola on sin-inducing luxury goods action either (hide spoiler)] chronicles 1980s New York as Dickens did Victorian London, using the plot as a vehicle to bring the worlds of rich and poor together.
Ove la recensionista si rianima e decide che potrebbe ancora diventare qualcuno.Ok sono pronta:prima guardate questa foto.http://i874.photobucket.com/albums/ab...Ora questa.http://i874.photobucket.com/albums/ab...Ora quest’altra.http://i874.photobucket.com/albums/ab...Chi è l’intruso?Troppo difficile?
Prima foto:http://i874.photobucket.com/albums/ab...Adesso guardate questa:http://i874.photobucket.com/albums/ab...E infine questa.http://i874.photobucket.com/albums/ab...Ripeto: qual è l’intruso?Qual è quel signore che probabilmente altro non sa fare se non contare le sue carte di credito, e l’unica penna che ha preso in mano, è quella d’oro massiccio che tiene nella tasca interna della giacca, per firmare gli assegni del suo coiffeur?
Non l'elenco dei Picasso e dei Lichtenstein che ha in casa.No cari miei, quest’uomo è riuscito a scrivere un libro possente, portentoso, universale, che ha un titolo altisonante come quell’altro che gli assomiglia tanto scritto da Thackeray.
So wie viele Schwarze auf Grund der Umstände, zur falschen Zeit am falschen Ort zu sein, zwangsläufig in vielen Vierteln quasi ohne ihr zutun in die Bredoullie kommen und vom System zermalmt werden, erwischt es diesmal einen weißen WASP Wall-Street-Heini, der komplett unschuldig zum Handkuss kommt.Sherman McCoy, erfolgreicher Wertpapierhänder, Sproß einer angesehenen Familie, mutiert in Wolfes Setting zu einem Hiob der Wallstreet, dessen einziger Fehler es ist, als WASP seine Frau mit der falschen Geliebten zu bescheißen und zur falschen Zeit am falschen Ort zu sein.
Natürlich schreibt Wolfe episch breit, wie viele Amerikaner, aber durch die treffenden Figuren und Milieubeschreibungen habe ich mich keine Sekunde gelangweilt.Gewürzt wird das ganze dann noch mit tiefschwarzem grotesken Humor, der sich in völlig absurden Szenen entlädt.
Tom Wolfe knows how to write a book. Not just any book. A complex book with several protagonists, antagonists, sub-plots, plot twists, and relativistic crises for several levels of socio-economic New York citizens. This is an exceptionally well-written novel, I recommend it to all humans.
Even the secondary characters are real and fully fleshed out, especially the scruffy lawyer, Tommy Killian—who, I have to admit, I couldn’t help envisioning as Saul “Better Call Saul” Goodman from Breaking Bad.The novel’s plot is elegant, like a recipe where multiple and complex ingredients unexpectedly yet inevitably come crashing together to form an entirely new, more complete, more perfect flavor.
Reading this book, I inhabited in Wolfe’s New York so completely that I felt a real sense of loss as I turned the last page.Like many of the great masterpieces of the 1980s--Oliver Stone’s Wall Street and Michael Lewis’s Liar’s Poker come to mind--this work is both of its time and yet timeless.
Mr. Wolfe also perpetuates tremendous momentum through-out this six hundred page book.His observations of society through these different class groups are astute.
He explodes the bubble surrounding each class type.
Within the varied encounters Mr. Wolfe illustrates the isolation felt by his characters.His settings – especially the fortress courtroom in the Bronx are well depicted and felt.
To some extent Mr. Wolfe adjusted his characters in his future novels to make them more appealing.In many ways this is a novel about class cultures meeting and confronting each other – and all this in a New York setting where all is within walking and subway proximity.
Blew. Me. Away.I was lucky enough to spend one year of my life living in Manhattan in the early 1990s. It is a place different to anywhere else and I wondered whether this book (which I read due to its placement on Boxall's 1001 Books to Read list) could possibly capture the bigger-than-life, completely urban, life lived at the speed of light attitude that is NYC. I wondered. I doubted. And I was amazed, because it did.
When I am asked what my favorite book ever is, this is one that immediately springs to mind. Wolfe's writing is some of the best of the 20th Century, and this story of investment bankers, homeless people and the collusion between rich and poor is the best explanation of the 80's, and manages to be a story that explains more about an era than any history of the time ever could. Wolfe has moved from recreating how non-fiction was written to a brilliant novelist.
Park Avenue...Wall Street...Wealth...Power...A Beautiful Mistress...Social Status...A Master of the Universe, he had it all.If you are not your possessions, profession, or social status, what are you? After it all comes tumbling down, that is the question Sherman McCoy is forced to answer.“He lived on Park Avenue, the street of dreams! He worked on Wall Street, fifty floors up, for the legendary Pierce & Pierce, overlooking the world! He was at the wheel of a $ 48,000 roadster with one of the most beautiful women...”
The 1980s New York Wolfe depicts is a segregated city, where rich Wall Streeters never cross paths with (or even think about) the middle class, the working man, the ghetto-fab.
It was the 1980s, not the 16th century, and communications systems were good enough that you would hopefully be able to remember the existence of people outside of your tax bracket.The motivations of individuals is also fascinating-- on one hand they are shaped entirely by the stimulus their system (class?
If Wolfe is right, the world is driven by flexing, ego-maniacal men and and their ambitions for sex and money.
In a snooty restaurant: "Fallow could see cluster after cluster of men with bald heads and women with pineapple-colored hair." The thick description of Park Avenue decor, where the mirrored walls of the 70s have been replaced by apricot silk, and the gleams come from candlelight and expensive lamps and silver tableware, and a florist named Huck Thigg creates centerpieces for dinner parties made of hardened wisteria vines in buttercup meadows, might be the best thing in the novel.Sherman McCoy is a bond trader, but Wolfe skitters fairly lightly over the details of bonds, high finance, and the machinations of Wall Street.
Throughout Wolfe uses phonetics to great effect in casting his characters in all their brutal-and-suave-tongued rage.
I found the character of Peter Fallow dull throughout most of the novel, but as the book was written he was a needed character in order to propel the plot forward.
The depths of irony that Wolfe portrayed when each character began to inwardly judge the other: brilliance.
There are lots of inner monologues, soul searching, coming to terms w/ ones nature and the nature of the world, and the above mentioned use of phonetics can give the reader pause.
I have to say I don't think I have ever read a novel with such an accurate view of the world.
With the exception of little details that dated the novel, I felt like I was seeing (reading?) a snapshot of New York today.
(Although interestingly, the reason I even picked this up is because I kept reading articles that equated the amoral Sherman McCoy with the Wall Street crowd that apparently single-handedly brought the economy crashing down on us.
Apparently they over-simplified their reading of the novel in the same way they over-simplified their analysis of the financial crisis.)
After reading a few books recently by first-time authors, I felt like I stumbled into the definition of mastery with this book.
Wolfe captures accents so deliciously well that you find yourself speaking the words along with the characters....to blend yourself into the sound environment with them.
I hate being plopped into the lives of characters without having any understanding of the current of the times they live in.
Wolfe never left me with this feeling for a moment...in fact...he crafted a history and portrait of events so snug, so thorough, that I sometimes forgot I was reading fiction.
This is the same feeling that Wolfe so savagely attacks in the rest of the book.This mixed message results from Wolfe's refusal to pick one or two targets, instead choosing to attack everything: white fear, black radicalism, Wall St. greed, Ivy League (and all the institutions that feed the Ivy League) elitism, materialism, the obsession with image, the American lack of culture, European snobbishness, journalistic laziness and opportunism, the politics of victimhood, and America's vast reserves of inequality all meet Wolfe's acid pen.
That's completely unfair: it's not his fault I didn't read the book when it was fresh.
But New York is just annoying."Vulgar, but not as vulgar as Louis Vuitton, thought Sherman.""He gave the boy a wide-eyed smile of such warmth and love, it caused Kramer to swallow""If you consciously envisioned something that dreadful, then it couldn't possibly take place, could it ...
If he tried to get up to answer the telephone, the yolk, the mercury, the poisoned mass, would shift and roll and rupture the sac, and his brains would fall out.""Like more than one Englishman in New York, he looked upon Americans as hopeless children whom providence had perversely provided with this great swollen fat fowl of a continent.
So, the plot in a nutshell: Sherman McCoy, a wealthy investment banker (white, obviously), is driving his mistress home from the airport one night when they take a wrong turn and end up in the Bronx.
This ends with them hitting a nineteen-year-old black boy and then driving away.
They're high on what tough, undeluded motherfuckers they are."I don't know if Tom Wolfe is Irish, but if he isn't he definitely wants to be.
The second thing I loved about the story was Judge Kovitsky, who makes Judge Judy look like a no-talent milquetoast.
You've got more than most people.
