https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/234067.Life_with_Picasso

I finally finished yesterday and found this book to be an intriguing, fascinating, and revealing book about one of the greatest artists of all time.Being a painter myself, I have always admired Picasso and he had always been the one person who is dead that I longed to meet.
I know this much: Had I spent time with him as a woman, within one or two days I would have slapped him so hard he would have permanently been seeing the whole world as cubism.This makes it sound like I hated the book.

پیکاسو همیشه در ذهنم به عنوان یک هنرمند فوق العاده بود و همواره هنر و خلاقیتش را تحسین کرده و خواهم کرد اما متاسفانه در زندگی شخصی آدم جالب و موفقی نبوده. کتاب زندگینامه فرانسوا ژیلو، معشوقه پیکاسو است که تقریبا ده سال با او زندگی کرد. کتاب بسیار جالبی بود در رابطه با زندگی شخصی و هنری پیکاسو و فرانسوا. در تمام کتاب فرانسوا به زیبایی مراحل خلق بسیاری از آثار پیکاسو و برخی از هنرمندان هم عصر او را تشریح می کنه که برام بسیار جذاب بود.
Fiercely candid but even-handed portrait of Picasso, but the real hero of this book is Gilot herself. Despite all of his manipulations, Gilot provides a detailed insider's view of a great artist at work. And perhaps even more moving is the story of a young woman commiitted to her own art, even in the presence of a such a giant figure i 20th c. art (and a giant ass in his personal life).
Much like the young child who stomps his feet for attention feeling any is better than none, Picasso wanted to cause a stir, make you uncomfortable and even disturbed by what you saw - in his art and apparently in his life as well.
Once he had your attention, there was much to be learned - for better or worse.Gilot tells what another review here on Goodreads so aptly described as a detached tale of her time with Picasso.
She escapes a violent and controlled life with her father to an inspired and liberated world with Picasso, or so it seems.
'I paint the way some people write their autobiography.
The paintings, finished or not, are the pages of my journal, and as such they are valid.
A particular life is usually the focal point of a biography.
Art brings two people together and when art no longer needed the ragged knot, it threw them far away.
If you're fond of Picasso's paintings, you'll have fun knowing the hidden stories behind the frames.
In the end it's all about painting for him.
He painted life.
Francoise painted the life of Picasso with words in this book.
تصادف جالبی بود که موقع خوندن همان عشق یان آندرهآ این کتاب رو دیدم و گرفتم.
همان عشق حکایت سالهایی هست که یان آندرهآی جوان با مارگارت دوراس گذرونده و این کتاب هم از سالهای زندگی فرانسواز ژیلوی جوان میگه با پابلو پیکاسو.
اولا فرانسوا ژیلو با حافظه ی حیرت انگیز خودش جزئیاتی رو از زندگی با پیکاسو به خاطر میاره که گاهی آدم خیال می کنه که این ها رو داره از خودش در میاره.
اما ژیلو با صراحت حتی از خاطراتی میگه که شاید نقل شدنش به ضرر خودش باشه.
پس به نظر میشه اعتماد کرد به این حافظه
همان عشق حکایت سال‌هایی هست که یان آندره‌آی جوان با مارگارت دوراس گذرونده و این کتاب هم از سال‌های زندگی فرانسواز ژیلوی جوان میگه با پابلو پیکاسو.
اولا فرانسوا ژیلو با حافظه ی حیرت انگیز خودش جزئیاتی رو از زندگی با پیکاسو به خاطر میاره که گاهی آدم خیال می کنه که این ها رو داره از خودش در میاره.
اما ژیلو با صراحت حتی از خاطراتی میگه که شاید نقل شدنش به ضرر خودش باشه.
دوم این‌که کتاب پر هست از خاطرات آدم‌های مشهور و نیمه مشهور زمانه‌ی حیات پیکاسو که به نوعی باهاش دم‌خور بودن.
اما ژیلو تنها زنی هست که خودش پیکاسو رو رها کرده.
I loved her accounts of meeting Matisse, Braque, Alice B Toklas, Gertrude Stein and others. I came away with the feeling that Picasso was a monster, not only to her, but to all his wives and girlfriends. (Secret confession: I have never liked Picasso's work either, though I see that he worked in many media and genres and was no doubt path-breaking. It doesn't appeal to me.)
I've read a fair amount about Picasso and I thought he was a jerk.
But now here is a first hand account from someone who lived with him for ten years and had two children with him.
I still think he's a jerk, but even though I guessed she maybe have finally agreed with that assessment, I appreciated the even handed way she presents this story.
I loved some of the throwaway lines..when they go to Picasso's old house she says he never threw anything away, not a used matchbook or a little watercolor by Seurat.
The Woman Who Said No. Told with humor and camera-like recall, Gilot paints a realistic portrait of what it was like to live with a genius of a creator and destroyer. And to survive it.
However, the expectation always was that she would meet his needs, never that he would be there for her.Anyone with an interest in art history would enjoy this book because it references so many important artists and the way they approached their work.
She also has a lot to say about the artistic process, Picasso’s development of new techniques and his explanations of what he is trying to communicate through his art.The most amazing thing to me is her ability to quote long passages of dialog from memory.
Because she often quotes Picasso telling her about people and events from earlier in his life, the time frame is broader than just their years together.
Long passages of dialogue between her and Picasso, between her and Matisse, between Picasso and others, explaining the master’s approach to art and life, have the ring of authority.
In her twenties, forty years younger than Picasso, when they meet, Gilot seems to have few illusions about where she might fit—she knows about Olga, Mrs. Picasso, and about Marie Therese, and about Dora Maar, her primary precedents in Picasso’s bed and affections—not the love of his life, for sure.
Francoise Gilot lived to be 96, a kind of revenge, perhaps (though she would never accept that idea) against Pablo Picasso.
A full 40 years his junior, in this book, she gives closeups of a personality that makes you want to put down the book and shout profanities in French at the Great Cubist.
Gilot and Picasso nevertheless managed an extraordinary friendship/partnership/love affair for 10 years, until, agonizingly, she left him, taking her children with her (of course).
The book reveals Picasso as an absolute infant, a two-year old basically.
As for me, Picasso's work I have always found only charming.
I'm not much of an intellectual (although I enjoy their company) and certainly not when it comes to art.
I've never been a Picasso fan, and yet artists always fascinate me.
She understood and could discuss art very well, and that was one of her most important attributes for Picasso.
The parts of the book where she talked about the how and why of Picasso's painting and sculpture were the least interesting for me.
I thought the last two sentences of the book a bit gratuitous, but what the heck.
I adore this book so far...good for the artsy soul, but it contains all kinds of philosophical, provocative gems of thought.
This was a great read. I enjoyed reading about the author's ten years with Picasso. She paints a vivid story. I recommend this book.
It has its moments, like when Picasso introduces Gilot to Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas (Gilot hates them), but as with many of the other Picasso memoirs, especially Malraux's, most of it doesn't ring true. Picasso lecturing on Hegel? Picasso babbling on the "aesthetic baseline" of a tree? No, no, no. Not judged against his conversations recorded by John Richardson and Brassaï.
Five decades have passed since the first time I read it, and somewhere in that half century I picked up a degree in art, including two years of printmaking.
According to him, prior to Impressionism art was governed by rules and standards — “beauty was contained in these rules”.
She was forty years younger and the product of an overbearing father who had wanted a son.
As the years passed it wasn't enough to sustain the relationship.
Unsurprisingly, the lion of twentieth century art was an unmitigated narcissist and misogynist.
Does this have any bearing on how I view his art?
Picasso is shown to be a completely selfish man, who demands a lot of those around him.
I found the book extremely interesting in that it shows one side of Picasso's relationships with the women in his life and also the painters and writers with whom he was friendly.
The descriptions of the lengths to which Picasso went to assemble his astonishing sculptures were particularly interesting.
However, her own home background was rather difficult.I find myself interested in learning more about Picasso and his circle, but also Francoise and how her own art developed after this episode in her life.
This was a supplement to my viewing of the National Geographic Channel's "Genius" serial on Picasso.
While Gilot's memoir is a highly detailed account of her relationship with the artist, the text bogs down when she digresses to discussing artistic techniques that Picasso practiced with painting, lithography, and sculpting.
These sections would have better served as appendices rather than interrupting the main narrative.
The tone of the book was oddly dispassionate; based on the experiences Gilot describes, it must have been maddening to live with Picasso and suffer his whims.
The text comes across as a documentary in print rather than a true memoir.
I wish she would have focused more energy on personal details of their life together, as well as her own day-to-day activities, thoughts, etc.
I felt like some of the recounted conversations with Picasso were more in Gilot's words than Picasso's (if you read any interviews with her or The Woman Who Says No you will encounter the same kind of air of superiority).
There's no way she could have recorded such conversations word for word, so I read them as more of a reflection of her own words, thoughts, and memory than what his.
Nonetheless, I found this to be a fascinating portrayal of not only Picasso but Francoise Gilot herself.
She was and is a fearless woman who obviously didn’t let any societal norms dictate the course of her life or get in her way.
I found myself wanting more when I got to the end of the book, almost needing to know more about Francoise Gilot.
After all, so much of her life was lived after Picasso.
I’m hoping it will have some of the answers to questions that I have about Francoise Gilot and her life after Picasso.

De enige vrouw die het aftrapte bij PP, na een relatie van tien jaar (1944-1953), schreef deze mémoires in 1964. Ze deed dat zonder racune, met veel appreciatie voor wat die tijd voor haar betekende; ze werd zelf een internationaal gewaardeerde artieste (ze is ondertussen een stuk in de negentig). Anekdotes over PP zelf en over het indrukwekkende netwerk van kunstenaars rondom hem doorspekken bijzonder interessante analyses van PP’s visie op zijn kunst en dat tegen de spannende achtergrond van de periode net nog in en na de oorlog. Aanbevolen leesvoer. Originele versie in Engels, Nederlandse vertaling al in 1965.
Life with Picasso is a revealing look into the life and work of Pablo Picasso. Francoise Gilot was Picasso's companion for many years, eventually having two children by him. She talks about Pablo's contemporaries, the processes by which he worked, his views on art and a variety of subjects - from women, to bull fighting, and everything in between. Reading this book is invaluable to understanding Picasso the man as well as the artist.
it has been a very surpraising book since i never expected to discover some aspects of picasso's personality. some times it was actually hard for me to continue my reading because of that aspects but also because it ached my heart some details of françoise's life -her mutual life with pablo, and what she get used to. but the end is beautiful and reflects the strong woman she was all the way inside.
Picasso is even meaner than you ever imagined him to be. But Francoise Gilot isn't bitter about it. Her tumultous decade with Pablo is summed up with incredible detachment and a fine attention to detail (or maybe that was her co-author taking some liberties?) Great insight into a great, tortured man and one of the woman who made him great. The question we should be asking is why did international recognition escape Gilot (a talented painter in her own right)?
I will read this again and wish I'd read it the first time with my highlighter. Great insights on art, including insights into Picasso and his contemporaries. Francoise's detailed points on art are balanced with an insight into Picasso that I had only heard about but not really had a picture of. If artists are temperamental, then great artists can be greatly temperamental.
As I was reading this book, I wondered if Francoise was still living and she is! I loved her book and was astounded she lasted as long as she did with him.
