https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42692.Mila_18
I grew up during World War 11 and although it was kept pretty quite by the Nazis many of us heard about what was happening to the Jewish people in Europe.
I read this book when it first came out back in 1961, and I decided to read it again just this past month.
What was so amazing is what these poor Jewish people suffer through.
I could hardly put this book down once I started reading it again.
Leon Uris the author also wrote Exodus (movie also with Paul Newman) I plan to re-read Exodus again since it's been over 30 years since I last read it.

This began like one of those 1980s epic TV series when the subject matter is fascinating but the script and acting awful.
The author gets carried away with every character's back story and he shows us in superfluous and often syrupy detail scenes that could have been told in a sentence or two.
However once he had settled into his grove and the war narrative began it was a compelling read.
Leon Uris isn't the best writer in the world but he did a brilliant job of comprehensively researching his subject and the story is gripping.
Leon Uris books are written in a style that takes history and historical characters and fictionalizes events through these made-up composite characters in a very entertaining, personalized and informative manner. Not great literature, however, his books are all page-turners and can be very emotional wrenching. This book, about the history of the Nazis taking over Poland, and the brave fight in the Warsaw Ghetto has left a deep imprint on my soul. Reader beware - if sad books stay with you, this will leave a deep wound.
It has been a very long time since I read this book.
Though I'm not certain how fond I would be of it now, I think that it made me search my soul for certain answers about humanity, its strengths and weaknesses.
In short it is about war, genocide, the human spirit, and taking a stand even when you know the action is futile.
Though, as I've recently read in another book, wouldn't it be far less meaningful if we knew that we would prevail in our efforts against death in its finality?
I recently re-read Mila 18 while in Warsaw; of course, I went to Mila 18 and stood on the actual spot.
I had first read the book when it came out in 1962.
It was powerful then, even more so today.
My grandparents lived near Warsaw; they left in the early 1900s; their families stayed and were murdered by the Germans.
Despite what I view as sincere efforts on the part of contemporary Germans, and thier collaborators in other countries, to recognize and atone for the horrendous deed of their ancestors, it is hard for me to forgive.
I learned a wealth of information about the situation of Jews in and around Warsaw before and during WW II and was reminded to "never forget." I used the term mind boggling because enjoyable is too light of an adjective to describe such horror juxtaposed to kindness, love to hate, and good to evil.One of the many things I enjoy about Uris's books is the way he describes and develops his characters and the various situations in which they're involved.
I saw the children eating chocolate on their way to a concentration camp, felt revolted by Stutze's brutal murder of Max Kleperman, and smelled and "tasted" the murky sewer gas swirling around up to my neck.Uris also reminds his readers that even in the most horrid of conditions, there is love, honor, and strength.
I read Mila 18 immediately after Armageddon and I thought they made a great combination. Everyone has heard of the Warsaw Ghetto but I never quite understood just what happened there. This book was a great illustration of that bit of history. Again, the novel is about people in inhuman conditions trying to find some hope for the future, refusing to be trodden under the boots of megalomaniacs. But as we know from history the events in Warsaw were a horror and a tragedy so be prepared for another gut-wrenching ending.
I read this book when it was first published in the 60s and thought it was wonderful.
While that story is compelling and heartbreaking, I wonder if Mila 18 could even be classified today as a "novel." The characters are two dimensional and serve essentially as plot devices rather than as real people.
Even in historical novels, character should drive plot, not the other way around, and in Mila 18, the plot drives the people.
I'd also forgotten the large chunks of exposition in which Uris shares with us his research notes.
Despite the intense subject matter, this time the book was boring.
But even the known facts are astonishing; that a group of essentially unarmed Jews in the Ghetto that had been created by the Nazis took on the German war machine and held out for 42 days - longer than Poland itself.There is surviving testimony as to what took place but it hardly matters - it is the sort of action that was bound to become mythologised.
Even, recent research suggests, to the point of the person supposed to have led the Jews in their revolt never having existed.
Well, someone led them and very competently too, obviously.I cried.
Oh my gosh this book really expanded my view about World War Two!
By the end I found myself crying.
When Andrei escaped from the Germans to return to Warsaw and lead the resistance i thought it was an amazing show of courage and determination.
This book also showed how the Jews were left to fend for themselves.
There were precious few that stayed to offer assistance to those trapped in Warsaw.
Even though they perish at the end you still get a feeling of respect for these characters and the sacrifices they made to stand up for what they believe in!
A reread for me, having first read this back in 1961 or '62. I remembered it as being a very powerful fictionalized version of history back then. It has not lost any of that impact over time. I credit Uris with laying the ground work for my long lasting love of the fictionalized history genre that I enjoy today. Anytime I can learn something factual from a fast paced novel, it's a good read.
Die Underdog-Geschichte mit den anerkanntesten Bösewichtern der Weltgeschichte und einem breiten Spektrum von Gerechten, eigentlich Guten und jede Menge Schurken auf beiden Seiten, lässt dem Leser kaum eine Wahl bei der Identifizierung mit den wahren Helden des Widerstandes, dabei sollte man aber nicht vergessen, dass der alte Kommunistenfresser das literarische Muster des Lieblingsfeinds des kalten Krieges genutzt hat, um einen einigermaßen funktionierenden Roman zu schreiben.
Selbstverständlich kann man sich von den Schicksalen aus Mila 18 rühren lassen, aber letztendlich sollte man darüber nicht vergessen, dass der zionistische Propagandist Uris ein paar historische Fakten in ein, sagen wir mal, bewährtes literarisches Muster gepresst hat, um sein erstes Buch fertig zu kriegen, das auch den Titel Roman verdient.
As the book tells us, “The Warsaw Ghetto…once held nearly six hundred thousand people.
The book does a fine job of describing the factions in the ghetto that prevented an earlier uprising.
It did a fine job of showing the mindset it took to fight in the face of certain defeat.
And it did a fine job of showing the perseverance and cunning of the Jews who lasted in battle for over a month - from April 13, 1943 through May 16, 1943.
Miracle or not, the Jews lost the uprising.
To be fair, pro-Zionist and anti-Nazi propaganda isn't the worst thing in the world, but -- and this is just my personal preference -- I do not generally favor books where prose, character development, and emotional nuance are manipulated to support a thesis.
Witness: "Rachel and Wolf lay side by side on the bed, awed by the magnificence of their experience...She felt so elated from the wonderment of fulfillment."That the preceding combination of words appeared in one of the only popular novels about these absolutely extraordinary true events makes me want to cry.You guys, this is the closest I have ever come to not finishing a book -- the only thing that kept me going was the knowledge that something this conventional would be building to some sort of barnstorming and possibly redemptive climax.
Because he is Leon Uris, he had to put several love stories in his version, but compared to his 1958 bestseller Exodus this book is so much better in terms of writing style and the characters.
Mila 18 is the name of the building inside the ghetto where the Jewish resistance had their headquarters.Both this book and The Wall make it clear that the journals and diaries of certain people inside the ghetto are responsible for the knowledge we now have about what happened there.
The book opens with the first salvo of WWII when Germany invaded Poland.
The 'sub-human' Jews and other undesirables were rounded up like cattle and herded into the ghettos of Warsaw, Poland.
What they did to survive slaughter is the meat of this book.
As their survival instincts flagged, they held to a singular purpose of getting their story out to the world.
Several men wrote daily diaries describing the Jew experience in the Warsaw ghettos.
One of those few had to survive to retrieve the diaries.
One did survive.
El autor cuenta a través de un grupo de personajes ficticios (aunque no tanto) la invasión de Polonia por los alemanes durante la II Guerra Mundial y como los judíos fueron discriminados, acorralados y exterminados por los nazis.
Y, en concreto, narra un episodio real, aunque poco nombrado en los documentales y libros, como es el levantamiento del gueto de Varsovia: como un puñado de judíos, enfermos, hambrientos, casi sin armas, mantuvieron en jaque durante semanas a las fuerzas alemanas.
La escena en que el jefe de la resistencia polaca se niega a admitir judíos en su organización es tristemente verídica; y la indiferencia del mundo ante el sufrimiento de las víctimas del holocausto nadie lo puede negar.
I first read this book many many years ago but I had forgotten just how powerful it was.
During a recent trip to Warsaw I was inspired to read it again.
It meant a lot more to me this time as I was able to "see" places mentioned through the lens of my recent travels.
It is a novel based on factual events but featuring imaginary characters.
Uris did an amazing job making it read as though it was fact.
I grew to deeply care for some of the charactors.
I would highly recommend this book to anyone interested in Holocaust history..
What captured my attention at 2nd reading was that Leon Uris seemed to capture what I now think of as the complexity of sentiments of the various Polish Jews who were rendered rather quickly from citizens of Poland to ghettoized pariahs with no legal status & finally to human beings consigned to charnel houses in Poland & elsewhere by the Nazis, their willing Polish collaborators, as well as others from the Ukraine & elsewhere.
Very powerful novel about the Warsaw Ghetto and the Jewish Uprising there during WWII.
I've read quite a bit about the Holocaust but this is the first novel I've read about the Warsaw Ghetto and the courageous fighters who faced the Nazis with limited weapons including homemade bombs and their bare hands.
This novel by Uris was sweeping in scope telling the story of Poland and Warsaw before the German invasion in 1939 and through the horrors of the ghetto.
I have read QBVII by Uris which I would also recommend and I most definitely will be reading more of his work.
Imagine being an Olympic soccer player, an officer in the Polish Army, and a loyal Pole who happens to be a Jew. The main character in this book,(which is based on the real life events of the Warsaw Ghetto uprising in the spring of 1942) is all of those.
Once defeated by Germany however, he is made to live in the Warsaw ghetto along with hundreds of thousands of Jews from Poland and other parts of Europe.
As circumstances for the Jews grow more dire, with hundreds starving every day, and with word of the death camps beginning to be believed, Andrei gathers a small group of fighters, men and women both.
Mila 18 is excellent at capturing the world of the Warsaw Ghetto and really paces the novel well so that you, through the eyes of several characters, see its inexorable decline towards death and destruction.
His characters are very diverse in terms of portrayal, some are nuanced and complex, others feel readily stereotyped and one dimensional.
Overall, it's an enjoyable book that gets you into that period and helps you feel the horror and inhumanity of the Warsaw Ghetto, but there's bit a too much Hollywood and stereotyping for my taste.
My wife and I went to Poland on an Eastern European tour in 2005. As a part of that tour we visited the Warsaw Ghetto Memorial. At a souvenier stand near the memorial I noticed copies of a paperback book which I owned but had never read, i.e.,   by   Leon Uris. I read the book as soon as we returned from our trip. This historical fiction book is the absolutely incredible story of how the Germans built a walled concentration camp within the city of Warsaw and forced a huge number of Jews inside t
As a part of that tour we visited the Warsaw Ghetto Memorial.
At a souvenier stand near the memorial I noticed copies of a paperback book which I owned but had never read, i.e., 
This historical fiction book is the absolutely incredible story of how the Germans built a walled concentration camp within the city of Warsaw and forced a huge number of Jews inside the area which originally housed a much smaller number of Warsaw citizens.
It became known as The Warsaw Ghetto.
The Jews organized themselves, built tunnels and homemade weapons, and finally revolted against the horrors of their Nazi captors.
I read Mila 18 after arriving back home from Warsaw, Poland. The book made the Jewish memorial sites I visited during the month in Warsaw feel more real. At first the book seemed to be a total chaos with romances, strict military history and jumping from one topic to another, but I liked it anyway. I recommend the book for those people interested in WW2 and the Warsaw ghetto.
This book captured my imagination like no other book about WWII. I lived and breathed Mila 18 while I was reading it ... I highly recommend it to any fan of Uris, anyone into WWII fiction, or anyone interested in a fictional, but very real account of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising. It is so moving.
I have read two of his books previously and they were great.
In order to tame them he comes up with the idea of recruiting some of their own to control the population.
They live in the Ghettos and band together to protect and help one another.
But the German dictatorship and arrogance will overun them.
They will be banded togather to slave camps, amputated, tortured, burned, and killed.
I consider myself privileged to have had the opportunity of reading such a great book.
He admonished us to have the world as our country, all men our brethren, and to do good our religion.
This was a beast to get through, read via audiobook recommended by my dad, an epic tale of faith, love, strength and perseverance, the narrator was fabulous which added to the intensity of the story, if you like World War II stories this one is a must.
Leon painstakingly researched the Warsaw Ghetto and the Uprising and the facts are historically correct.
Some of the characters are real and were actually in the Ghetto and did what he says they did.
Although not necessary, knowing something of the history of the Warsaw ghetto, the Uprising, and the Nazis, it does help to understand the actions of the characters better.
In addition to being a story about the ghetto and the uprising, an attempt to understand how different people react to the same circumstances.
His book also shows how women were controlled by their husbands and fathers prior to WWII and how that changed as the war continues.

