https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/836269.The_Collected_Poems_of_Rudyard_Kipling
From the Jungle Books over the Just So Stories to Kim, we find a panorama of colourful personalities, all with their own looks, customs, vocabulary, accents and intonations - even if they happen to be animals.In his poetry, the same rule applies, but in most cases one poem represents one voice, immediately counterbalanced by another one in the next poem.
Highly readable as well: the nuanced, thoughtful introduction to this edition by George Orwell, making no excuses for the dated, condescending imperialist worldview, but looking beyond it to see Kipling as a writer and child of his time, not a demon or partisan of a political order.The Glories, 1925"IN FAITHS and Food and Books and Friends  Give every soul her choice.For such as follow divers ends  In divers lights rejoice.
And i suspect a lot of people turning up their noses at Kipling either don't read him or read him having decided before hand that he's patriarchal or imperialist or nationalist or whatever.As Kipling wrote, tongue in cheek, about poets and critics:Still a cultured Christian age sees us scuffle squeak and rageStill we pinch and slap and jabber, scratch and dirkStill we let our business slide-as we dropped the half-dressed hideTo show a fellow savage how to work.
If poetry is rhythmically organised memorable speech, then Kipling was a great poet with a greater range than most people give him credit for.
Fuzzy-Wuzzy(Soudan Expeditionary Force)We've fought with many men acrost the seas,An' some of 'em wa
I started enthusiastically 4 years ago, but got bogged down by the time I was a third of the way through by what seemed to me to be an increase in versifying rather than an increase in poetic intensity.
Mind you, I didn't quite know how the poems were arranged: thematically, chronologically...?
I wanted to think they were chronological so I could follow Kipling's development as a poet, but I don't think they were, and the Kipling Society online pages often offered useful help in determining when they were written and what they were about.
Maybe my overall sense of boredom comes from the fact that this collection is massive, but I can't say that the content inside the book is as captivating as I had hoped for.
While I found some real gems from time to time when making my way through, I sense that a lot of the verses were not interesting enough to me.
Besides this, I think that Kipling's other verses on other topics is pretty good; there was a set of poems in this collection that I especially liked in which he wrote poems on various topics while trying to take on the style of other iconic poets.
highly referenced and full of insiders' asides, needs a lot more footnoting.
I love taking this down sometimes and just flicking through to read a random poem. I love the range of poetry Kipling wrote -- and never quite realised before how much he wrote.
