https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42547.The_Autobiography_of_Martin_Luther_King_Jr_
Also, despite the fact that he was fighting for “Negro rights”, he did not attempt to paint White people as evil but acknowledged the ones who were allies for not being afraid to take a stand for civil rights.“Of course there is one phase of liberalism that I hope to cherish always: its devotion to the search for truth, its insistence on an open and analytical mind, its refusal to abandon the best light of reason.” Throughout the book I got the feeling that Dr. King knew he was going to be assassinated.
How the spirit of rebellion - which found expression for the first time with the Montgomery Bus Boycott in '55 (unwittingly started by Rosa Parks' act of denying her occupied seat to a white passenger) - trickled into the hearts of oppressed millions in Albany, Georgia, Birmingham, Alabama, Florida, Chicago, Boston, and Washington culminating in the passage of the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964, is recounted by King himself.That aside, there's a brief autobiographical sketch patched together from the fragments of writings gathered from the Stanford University archive by Clayborne Carson.
As a middle-class white man in 2014 would I have been able to relate to a militant, angry, disenfranchised black man/woman willing to kill or die for an improvement in his/her world had MLK not preached - and lived by example - a course of non-violent yet aggressive resistance to the unjust status quo?
His original words, presented in historicaly chronological context, show his maturity as a leader, an author and an agent of change.I wish that this book was required reading in every American school.
I am proud to count him as a hero - and I want to understand (and learn from his example) how to be a non-violent positive agent of change.
I was drawn to this book at this particular time because I needed to hear the words of someone who believed with his life that hatred and anger were not the answer.
But here is the life of a man who at times felt anger and hatred and yet believed that the expression of it was strategically and morally wrong.
I needed to be reminded that non-violence is more than simply refraining from striking or even verbally abusing another person.
Non-violence for King was a way of life, a way of seeing the world.
Excellent read! great insight into his life and story (paperback!)
On finishing this book, I e mailed Dr. Carson at Stanford University - it was a Saturday - and I had a response in 5 minutes.
A very humble response to my overly gushing e mail, and an invitation to his private ' Gandhi King Community' which made my year.
I am sure you could get many things from reading this book, for me it was the best ' self help ' book I ever read.
How to get your act together on a grand scale and stop thinking about all the things you ' could do / should do ' to help your community and just do it.
To the young student of civil rights, this narrative of King's life, his development and his impact as a civil rights leader is truly fresh, revealing with gripping immediacy the struggle at each step of the journey, from Montgomery to Albany to Salem to Chicago and beyond.And yet, even to those who are well versed in the civil rights movement, who can name prominent figures like Roy Abernathy and Fred Shuttlesworth, or key opponents like Bull Connor, there is still a depth of detail into King's personal development that speaks directly to mainline questions of ethics, morality, and the human condition.For example, early in his development at Morehouse College (where he enrolled at the age of 15!) King faced a dilemma squaring his religious upbringing and belief with intellectual rigor and modern sciences.
Martin makes Christianity attractive. He's somebody to model a life after.
***"Eu também sou vítima de sonhos adiados, de esperanças dilaceradas, mas, apesar disso, eu ainda tenho um sonho, porque a gente não pode desistir da vida".(Martin Luther King)***
About a week after the protest started, a white woman who understood and sympathized with the Negroes' efforts wrote a letter to the editor of the Montgomery Advertiser comparing the buss protest with the Gandhian movement in India.
Nourished by the Negro's frustration over the continued existence of racial discrimination, this movement is made up of people who have lost faith in America, who have absolutely repudiated Christianity, and who have concluded that the white man is an incorrigible 'devil.'" p.196-7As his work continued things started to change.
The 'black power' movement, King felt was trying to undo what he had achieved.
I liked what it had to say about organizing, definitely some good tips (especially about picking a target and not just protesting generally.) Like most people, I assume, I am most familiar with MLK's work in the south and was fascinated to learn about his efforts in Chicago.
His methods and goals seem to have shifted at that point and I would like to learn more.
Especially near the end, I don't always agree with the rhetoric, but I find it interesting hearing where it came from and I feel I probably need to study it more to state a stronger opinion.
Definitely worth listening to this one.
This is not quite a true autobiography, but rather a collection of King's writings and speeches throughout his life, edited and assembled by a third party.
I found this disappointing because it lacked the benefit of hindsight perspective that a biographer could have brought, but also doesn't necessarily have the personal tone and thesis of an autobiography.I listened to this in audio form, which included many recordings of King's sermons and speeches.
This gives a firsthand glimpse at his fantastic gift as an orator, especially the later recordings which are higher quality.It also didn't spend much time explaining the historical events, but rather King's feelings and motivations about them.
By using the first person singular, the author makes the subject of his book seem, for example, more defensive when Dr. King decided not to remain in jail awaiting trial instead of remaining true to the nonviolent direct action tenet of demonstrating civil disobedience by remaining incarcerated.
The author has heavily borrowed from a number of Dr. Kings books and writings; authentic, but for someone familiar with civil rights best known martyr, a bit redundant.
A good book, but a bit disappointing in that the author has such access to and knowledge of Martin Luther King's mind and conscience.
Mudanças profundas (e práticas) se operaram (e continuam a operar, e espero que continue por todo sempre) após essa leitura.No Brasil, num momento em que vivemos uma cultura de ódio por parte de quase todos os grupos que pensam diferente, ler Martin Luther King é um balsamo de esperança, de que somente o amor, e a consequente não violência (de ação e de palavras) podem mudar o mundo, criar condições de existência mais justas para todos, e transformar vidas e formas de pensamentos.
I don't think that the editor, Clayborne Carson steered the book in a way unbefitting to King.The book gives you a thorough account of King's actions and involvement in the civil rights movement, as well as insight into his personal struggles.
Two things really struck me about King's character throughout the book: his willingness to sacrifice and his strong faith in God. He (and his wife) were willing to sacrifice not only their time, efforts and resources but also their security in order to fight for civil rights.
The Autobiography of Martin Luther King, Jr. gives an overview of the major movements in King's life, from his childhood, up until his death.
Because of his untimely death, King was not able to write his own autobiography.
I think that Carson did an extremely fine job, capturing King's thoughts and perceptions of what unfolded before him.
I appreciated reading King's writing, especially reading what he thought about the situations as they were happening.
Mostly, I appreciated reading about King's solid religious understanding of justice and reading about his thoughts as he thought twice about whether he was doing the right thing.
I have never listened to an audiobook until now but I was urged to listen to this book by a friend. It brought back so many memories of an extraordinary man who's message needs to be repeated continually to a country that has misplaced its conscience. I was blessed to hear Dr. King live. Although I was a young child I have never forgotten that experience and only wish he wasn't taken from us. Thank you Clayborne Carson for refreshing his message. Read this and live Dr. King's message.
They were willing to face the dangers and difficulties, but I thought that Ghana would be able to profit by the mistakes of other nations that had existed over so many years and develop into a great nation."6- "We know through painful experience that freedom is never voluntarily given by the oppressor; it must be demanded by the oppressed.
In this sense power is not only desirable but necessary in order to implement the demands of love and justice.
Power at its best is love implementing the demands of justice.
Magnificent book about MLK. A tremendous life cut far too short by an assassin's bullet. A definite must read.
Listening to the history of the Civil Rights movement through the experiences, writings, and speeches of Dr. King is well worth the time.
The best aspect of listening to this book as opposed to reading it in paper form is listening to Dr. King's voice as he reads "Letter from a Birmingham Jail," "I Have a Dream" and his Nobel Peace Prize acceptance speech (among several others).My respect for Dr. King, Medgar Evers, Ralph Abernathy, Mamie Till Bradley and so many others in the Civil Rights movement continues to deepen as I spend more time reading and listening to these accounts of what took place from the perspective of the participants.
Make America Great AgainOne one level I an deeply ashamed that I am just reading this comprehensive, compelling, and courageous book taken from the writings and speeches of the man himself and on another level I am happy I am reading this in 2016 as the issues of racism, poverty, and war (King's self-described 3 evils) are still very much alive.
As a black man who has directly benefited from the Civil Rights Movement I feel a personal responsibility to advance the work of Dr. King.
Not knowing much about Martin Luther King Jnr this gave me a good grounding in his philosophy of non violence and the political and social conditions he was seeking to change during his lifetime. It's very well put together and I could believe that he was actually narrating it. The author has done a brilliant job of pulling his writings together and coming up with a rounded biography of one of the greatest leaders of the civil rights movement.
A fantastic audio book. Martin Luther King was a brilliant, courageous man. A life that never should have been taken from this earth before his time. Highly recommend and should be a must read for everyone.
It's a cliche saying, but this book was life-changing. I was so inspired by King Jr.s life story and his words that I became very interested in philosophy, ethics, debate, politics and humanity as a whole. I also still love the nonviolent approach of Martin Luther King Jr.s movement. Wish we had class like his around today. He was a great man and an amazing speaker.
I think everybody should read about the lives of great men such as Martin Luther King.
The Autobiography of Martin Luther King, Jr. by Martin Luther King Jr., Clayborne Carson is an exceptional read – it isn’t just a book about an individual, but of an entire movement, and its people behind it, about each man & woman and their right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
It was inspiring to read of all the people who stood up for what they believed in: Rosa Park, Malone Jones, Dr. King himself, especially his stand on Vietnam.
This may be with our friends, but it may also mean trying to understand the plea of a group of people.
3) Understand your privileges: because of people like Dr. King, life has been made better for some of us.
Anyone reading this book should know that it's not really an autobiography in the traditional sense.
The book was actually compiled from King's writings posthumously by Clayborne Carson, an MLK scholar.
In the preface Carson concedes the book is "largely a religious and political autobiography".
Finally, because so many of King's writings and sermons share the same themes, scripture references, and insights, there is a degree of redundancy throughout the book that bored me at times.With that lengthy disclaimer, I still rate this book 4 stars because MLK's writing is so eloquent and inspiring.
The first several chapters also give small insights into his decision to enter the ministry, his propensity for theological doubt, and even his thoughtful take on capitalism and socialism.
The first several chapters were very interesting and showed potential for the remainder of the book.
However, I did notice quite a bit of redundancy throughout the book, which was slightly annoying and led to a feeling of disinterest.
For a life filled with so many challenges, discoveries, setbacks, and triumphs...you'd think the book would be much more exciting/interesting.
I just did not think the "real" MLK came out, but more of a stereotypical "good" and somewhat shallow MLK instead.
I was disappointed with the quality of writing(craft editing)...not the quality of MLK's life and accomplishments.
I am now reading 
My experience with this book is hard to put into words.
I'm convinced he was simply beyond the majority of people of his time, and fought hard against limited worldviews of religion, politics, and human existence, from the standpoint of spirit.
So fascinating to hear that he frequently felt people, sometimes very close to him, never really understood what he was doing -- which in the words of his wife Coretta, was to bridge the eternal and temporal worlds through nonviolence and love.
Truly a visionary human being.
Rarely do I say that you need to read a book a certain way.
But I will say that this book absolutely should be listened to, if possible.
Read by Levar Burton, with recordings of King's speeches and civil rights songs.
As much as I have read about the struggle for civil rights, there were parts of King's fight that I didn't know much about.
Yes, this is obviously an incomplete picture of the man, as we all usually treat ourselves to the best terms.
He was a flawed man, but a great leader nonetheless.
