https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35995489-the-extraordinary-life-of-sam-hell
4.5 starsIt was impossible not to care about Sam Hill, his loving parents and his best friends Ernie and Mickie.
Impossible not to admire Sam’s strength of character to endure the bullying and ridicule he experienced because of how he looked with his “devil eyes “, red eyes as the result of being born with ocular albinism.
I was moved that the seed for this story was an article he read about a young boy in Australia who “had been denied admittance to Catholic school because he had been born with ocular albinism and the nuns thought he’d be disruptive to the other students.
Instead, it’s the story of a young man growing up with a genetic abnormality, ocular albinism.
It’s a heartwarming tale as Sam struggles to avoid school bullies, including the nun who is the principal at the catholic elementary school.
But it’s also the story of best friends and the lengths they go to help each other out.
The story also gives us Sam as an adult forced to confront the same bully and the choices he makes color the next ten years of his life.
Dugoni tells the story with a brisk writing style using short chapters.
That's not the unanimous view of everyone in their community, however—his Catholic school classmates refer to him as "Devil Boy."Sam's mother was determined that her son live life with great gusto, and not be discouraged by those who treat him badly or try to keep him from the opportunities given to every other child.
But while his mother believes that events in Sam's life are determined by God's will, Sam isn't quite so sure that God would want him to suffer in fear and loneliness.It's the arrival of Ernie Cantwell, the only African American kid in school, who first makes Sam believe people could be heaven-sent.
4 richly drawn stars to The Extraordinary Life of Sam Hell! ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ What an engaging and poignant story! Sam Hell was born with ocular albinism, a condition that causes the blood vessels to show through the irises of the eye, giving a pink or red appearance. Sam’s family is deeply spiritual, and his mother believes his condition is simply God’s will. Sam endures bullying and outright discrimination due to his physical appearance. His childhood is tough, and he questions his faith. Sam’s mother i
4 richly drawn stars to The Extraordinary Life of Sam Hell!
Sam Hell was born with ocular albinism, a condition that causes the blood vessels to show through the irises of the eye, giving a pink or red appearance.
Sam’s family is deeply spiritual, and his mother believes his condition is simply God’s will.
The love between all members of this family was palpable and inextinguishable.The Extraordinary Life of Sam Hell is about his journey of self-discovery and self-acceptance, but if you’ve ever felt different, left out, or lonely, Sam’s story could be your story, too.
The Extraordinary Life of Sam Hell is now available!
FANTASTIC audiobook!!!!.....I love Sam!!!!.....l loved the way Sam’s mother defended him: awesome dialogue!!.....loved the storytelling.........Endearing - engrossing - and inspiring!!!!Thumbs Up - up- up!!!! 👍💕📚💕👍📚
This book about a young boy, born with red eyes, due to ocular albanism really got to me.
We follow these young people as they grow, see the kind of people they turn out to be.
Such a touching book, one where you embrace the characters, want only good things for them.
I was already sold on the book though, the journey these characters travel to find a fulfilling life.
So, the ending didn't derail my opinion of the book, and I was actually a little teary eyed.
Like I said, I'm now officially a marshmallow.ARC from Netgalley.
His dazzling prose and wonderful ability to convey a story will warm the heart of many readers throughout this powerful novel.
As the story progresses, the reader learns of Sam’s older years and how things developed for him, allowing life lessons and personal epiphanies to shape his way of life.
However, it is wonderful to see an author step away from his/her comfort zone and develop an ability to write with an entirely new set of characters and plots.
Sam Hill is a wonderful character whose maturation is a fundamental part of the story.
3.5 stars"We realize it is in those quiet moments that each of us has the ability to make our life extraordinary."Sam was born with ocular albinism which resulted in him having red pupils.
My favorite character in this book is his Mother with her unwavering devotion and belief that Sam is destined to lead and extraordinary life.
That is a nice plus, we learn about Dugoni's family and the story/inspiration behind this book.I loved how this book focused on faith, family, friendship, and acceptance.Thank you to Lake Union Publishing and NetGalley who provided me with a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
The Extraordinary Life of Sam Hell was just such a book.We meet a wonderful cast of characters, characters we would like to know, characters we would love to have as parents, friends, and neighbors, characters that we could love.
His two lifelong friends bring to Sam love, compassion, and a strong bond that provides him a place to go when his life becomes onerous.This book transported this reader into a world where one can find that which seems to be escaping from our world today, that of human kindness, forgiveness, and love.
4.5 Extraordinary StarsThis is the story of Sam Hill, who was born in 1957, with ocular albinism, which made him have red eyes.He was born to very loving parents, the mother being very religious and thinking Sam was extraordinary and would live an extraordinary life.
Sam attends Catholic school and is bullied and called “the devil boy” by many children, but he also makes two friends who become lifelong friends, and I just love their story.There are many very sad moments in the book, things Sam endured because of his eyes, but there are many laugh out loud moments also!
So, I just loved this book, and highly recommend it!Thank you to NetGalley and Lake Union Publishing!
THE EXTRAORDINARY LIFE OF SAM HELL by ROBERT DUGONI is a touching, uplifting, heartwarming and an absolutely wonderful novel that had me totally engrossed and interested throughout this entire book.
I was totally captivated and immersed with the voice of Sam and his story as he looks back on his life, making this novel extremely hard for me to put down.
I thoroughly enjoyed following along with Sam, his family and friends and all the wisdom, love, and themes shared within the pages of this book made this a powerful and memorable read!
You never fully realize what you're capable of until backed into that corner or running out of rungs on the ladder of life.Samuel Hill is the only son of an only son.
"Show No Mercy" was their marching song.Robert Dugoni opens the ornate door on the hellish beginnings of Sam's early childhood.
Dugoni fast-forwards in alternating chapters to the present time of 1989 in Burlingame as Sam reaches adulthood and becomes a ophthalmologist in his private practice.
Robert Dugoni has a special gift for lighting the candle of the human spirit.
My thanks to Lake Union and to the very talented Robert Dugoni for the opportunity.

Thanks, Jean!The Extraordinary life of Sam Hell covers Sam’s life from age 3 to age 40 something.
Sam’s mother, a devout Catholic, loves her son dearly and explains to him that his extraordinary eyes mean that he will lead an extraordinary life.
Sam has a tough time throughout much of his young life, but his prayers for help seem to go unnoticed, and he is not at all certain God cares whatsoever.
They along with Sam’s parents make a tremendous impact on Sam’s life.This story encompasses a number of themes.
I have now read two books in a row that made me cry.
Sam’s hardships start early on, practically on the first day at the local Catholic school, affiliated to the church they attend.
His nickname became Sam Hell or Devil Son. The poor boy, not only is he shunned by his colleagues, he draws the Principal’s ire, sister Beatrice.The novel moves back and forward in time: school and high school years, where Sam makes two great friends, Ernie, the only black boy in the neighbourhood, and Mickie, a tomboy, outspoken girl.
Who knew high school students had that much power … (hide spoiler)]I’m going to be pedantic now: I’ve read on ocular albinism – Sam doesn’t seem to have as many issues that others seem to have, even allowing for individual differences.
In the end, we ended up in separate coulees with the way we felt about this story.There are many extraordinary things explored in this story like a Mother’s love and belief in just how extraordinary her son is and how our main character Sam HIll overcomes the many obstacles throughout his life from a young age.
We see the best and the worst in people and at times this story was heartbreaking and heartwarming with all the themes explored in this story, Where Norma and I ended up in different coulees was with the way we felt about this one was with the ending.
Sam has a protective and loving family who teach him to be resiliant and he eventually finds a friend in Ernie, the only African American boy in school, and later Mickie, a rebellious tomboy, who both help him survive school.
Sam's path will later cross again with his old school bully in adult life with serious results that throw him out of his hard won comfort zone and cause him to re-evaluate his life.This a character driven novel, with Sam's mother Madeline the star, staunchly religious, fearless of authority and fiercely protective of her only child.
Born with ocular albinism, he struggled in childhood as children and adults alike ostracized him for his unique eyes.For me this read like a mash up of the movie A Christmas Story and a Fredrik Backman book (with maybe just a tiny bit of Angela's Ashes mixed in).
There was some silliness, but mostly this was a story told at a deliberate pace and in the end I realized how beautifully the threads of Sam's life had been woven together.I'm deducting a tiny bit for a few reasons: *There were some points in the book when I was suddenly very confused about timelines, and it's almost impossible to go back and figure things out with an audiobook.
I'm happy to report that The Extraordinary Life of Sam Hell definitely worked!There are many things I loved about this book but my overwhelming response upon finishing it was Wow, this book was so refreshing!
These topics were addressed, however, with sensitivity and in such a way as to convey hope and a sense of justice in most cases.As for the characters, Robert Dugoni does an amazing job of presenting us with a carefully constructed cast spanning the spectrum between good/almost perfect and pretty darn evil.
And while religion plays a role in the book, it's never, ever preachy.Overall, I loved The Extraordinary Life of Sam Hell.
This one turned me to mush and made my eyes leak. While the characters were very religious, the story is not preachy. I felt it was more a story of faith, acceptance, and love. Sam certainly did have an extraordinary life. Very heartwarming!
Was a 5 star book for me all the way until near the end where it just fell apart a little and took things too far for me.
She tells Sam that it is gods will that he was born with red eyes and that god has a plan for him and he will have an extraordinary life.
The book goes from having a religious undertone that can be enjoyable for all with a beautifully told story.
It just felt so out of character for the book and the story, despite the religious tone throughout.
His classmates called him, "the devil boy" and "Sam Hell." His mother, who was a devout Catholic, called him,"Extraordinary" and claimed that the colour of his eyes was "God's will." Sam thought that God sent Ernie Cantwell, the only African American kid in his class, to be the friend he so desperately needed and that it was God's will that brought Mickie Kennedy to be his other best friend.
Robert Dugoni also tells about reading a short article in the newspaper about a young boy in Australia being denied admittance to a Catholic school because he had been born with ocular albinism and the nuns thought he'd be disruptive to the other students.
Namaste.My soul honors your soul. I honor the place in you where the entire universe resides.I honor the light, love, truth, beauty, and peace within you, because it is also within me.In sharing these things we are united; we are the same; we are one. – Legral onion Aug 2014 What the Sam Hell? This kid has red eyes! Sam Hill is the only son of an only son. He was born with a rare condition, ocular albinism, which gave him red pupils. His mother Madeline “Maddie” Hill, a devout Catholic, deemed
His father Maxwell, a pharmacist, loves him steadfastly as well, but it is his mother who is his champion.The Extraordinary Life of Sam Hell by Robert Dugoni is the first book in a long time to make me cry.
When Sam starts school, he is ignored because he is different.
I love Ernie and Mickie because they love Sam unconditionally too.
They love him even when he doesn’t seem to love himself.He struggles with his faith.
Grammar school pals Ernie and Mickie are still a big part of his life, as are his parents.
Sam doesn’t just struggle with discrimination and with his faith.
‘We realize it is in those quiet moments that each of us has the ability to make our life extraordinary.’This is a story about love and how to live an authentic life.
It is about how a life well lived, with love, is an extraordinary thing in and of itself.
It is a story of a boy becoming a man, about self regard, about friendship.
The closing chapters brought a tear of two to my eye.
I found this an inspiring read, with many lessons that I could learn from myself.
Recommended.Many thanks to Netgalley for an arc of this book.
And an extraordinary life it is.
I loved this coming-of-age story of a boy named Sam born with red pupils.
A simple and creative concept that generated a GREAT story.
His character is well-developed and I so enjoyed watching him grow, along with admiring his fierce dedication to his parents and best friends.
I loved Sam’s mother, a force to be reckoned with and someone to aspire to.
Sam’s strict Catholic upbringing brought me back to my 60’s childhood.
I chuckled with references of “God’s will” to explain away what life throws your way.
The chapters alternate between Sam as a youth and as a grown man.
Sam Hill was born with red eyes. His mother, a woman of deep faith, deemed him extraordinary and believed he would lead an extraordinary life. Sam, however, felt anything but. He struggled to find meaning among the mishaps and tragedies throughout his life.I was immediately drawn into this story and some of the amazing characters. Sam's mom was my favorite. There were some really funny and also heartbreaking moments as well. This is definitely one of the best novels that I've read so far this year!
Sam Hill is born with ocular albinism - he has red eyes.
Anyway, having red eyes caused Sam to be bullied and teased all the time.
Other kids at his Catholic elementary school in Burlingame, California, called him the "devil boy" and "Sam Hell" and played mean pranks on him.
Rober Dugoni is the worst bully in the school and Sam is afraid of him.
Sam's very religious mother always told him that he was extraordinary and special to explain his red eyes.
This is the story of Sam's life and how he comes to terms with his unusual condition.
4.5 stars rounded up.
I love Robert Dugoni's police procedurals.
Sam's life story made me smile and it made me tear up.
All in all, a heartwarming, wonderful novel about discrimination, bullying, and abuse as well as love, faith and forgiveness.
It lost half a star for me towards the very end, where events just became a little too melodramatic, too neatly wrapped up and the religious elements veered off into the bizarre.
Despite of this, this will be among my favorites of 2018, as the vast majority of this was stunningly beautiful.The audio version is narrated by the author, and Robert Dugoni did a fantastic job.
Within moments of starting I was completely hooked, devouring pages as fast as possible until suddenly I realised I was nearing the end and wanted to slow down so I could stay in the presence of Sam, his family and close friends.
Though Sam's condition brought difficulties he was blessed with a couple of wonderful friends and a fabulously supportive family.
They were a devout Catholic family and his mum regularly encouraged Sam to "have faith" and would rationalise every thing as "it's God's will".
Dugoni moved me through a range of emotions from laughter to sadness, anger to fear,  and though it was not a romance it most definitely was a story of love.
Sam Hill was nicknamed 'Hell' for his ocular albinism, red eyes.
He was bullied by both children and adults.
Finally when a black boy moved to town he had a friend in Eddie Cantwell.
Their friendship lasted well into adulthood, as did the bullying.
Eventually, after a bad relationship ended, Sam, a small town eye doctor, left it all behind.
It was then that Sam finally opened his eyes to what life was all about.
I felt that the character development was very good in this novel.
There were times that I was angry, times that I was pained, and times that I felt worked amazingly.
