https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8528.Rat_Race
In this case, the loner, withdrawn protagonist is a pilot, Matt Shore, who once flew for BOAC but who is now reduced to flying puddle-jumper charters.
Like a lot of Francis's heros, Shore has also recently been divorced and is very gun-shy regarding women, although inevitably a beautiful and desirable woman will soon be practically dropped into his lap.Matt flies a party of four to a race meet and only a minute or so after they land, the plane explodes.
But several other incidents follow and it appears that someone may be targeting a prominent jockey who frequently flies with Matt.
I genuinely found this one a bit hard to follow. Due to some stylistic quirks (sentence fragments galore!), a tendency to bury plot points in boring dialogue, or just because I wasn't really paying attention? Eh, probably a combo platter.I can tell you that emotionally-wounded pilot protagonist dude was super gay for uber-famous(-but-still-down-to-earth) racing jockey dude. So that was nice.
Typical Dick Francis thriller. He makes it very easy to root for the main character (the quiet underdog hero who gets caught in some illegal / ruthless heist) and to sincerely hope he will get the girl in the end.Fast paced and interesting in the flying taxi details, for me it suffers a little due to the rather obvious and insufficiently convincing bad guy. But as far as I'm concerned, Francis could pick any boring subject and still make it an etntertaining ride - I seem to remember one book with an accountant as the hero.
3 Stars.
Life is not going well for Matt Shore.
He's just into his new job with Derrydown Sky Taxi piloting trainers, owners and jockeys to horse racing meets around England when his plane, the company's new Cherokee Six, explodes on the tarmac.
It was only his "We'd better land" precaution in mid-flight, the levers were sluggish, that saved his life and passengers including Colin Ross, the nation's leading jockey.
Matt's been dropping in job level; now he's broke and being harassed by almost everyone: the Board of Trade air transport regulators, his ex-wife, his unsympathetic employer, and the competition Polyplane.
A good story , slightly old fashioned style but very enjoyable
Although all the passengers are safe, it’s another black mark on Matt’s career and he wants to know why.
Although I’ve not read this particular book since January 1977, it reminds me why I became such of fan of Dick Francis’ writing.
Whether Dick or Mary Francis was the primary author of this, and the other books by Dick Francis, I frankly don’t care.
RAT RACE (Ama Sleu-Matt Shore-England-Cont) – VG+Francis, Dick – 10th in seriesHarper & Row, ©1971, US Hardcover – ISBN: 978-0060113223
The ending of this book was a cruel way to treat readers. It's extremely open ended, which isn't really Francis' normal style.
Matt Shores life and career as a pilot have been on a downward spiral.
His latest job is with a flying taxi service for racecourses and his first flight ends with the plane exploding after he lands from sensing a problem with the aircraft.
Although all the passengers are safe, its another black mark on Matts career and he wants to know why.The story GRIPS you from the first page and does not let you go till the very last page!
Dick Francis knew a thing or two about pace & in this novel he delivers another winner to the winning enclosure!
I read Dick Francis when I can have an early night, 'cos I know I won't turn the light off until I've finished it, this was no exception (good job they are fairly short). One thing I like is that although still based around horse racing this time I learnt a bit about private plane hire - not something in my life style, as well as a fast paced story, with plenty of action.
A bit dated of course but still quite a satisfying mystery with reasonably interesting characters. Haven't read any for a long time but I can see why Dick Francis is my sister's go-to for comfort reading - like an Agatha Christie but with jockeys instead of upperclass British people and Poirot.My copy: read at my sister's place.
A new author for me and certainly a great introduction to his style of writing. An enjoyable novel and interesting plot - enough characters and action to keep the reader interested throughout. I did feel it ended rather abruptly, but nonetheless was an engaging read.
Pretty formulaic for a Dick Francis novel, to me. But that could be because I've read many of his books and now look closer than I did at first at the faults in the plots, which in this case stretched the imagination in some places. That said, this is still a good read and keeps you turning pages.
The ninth Dick Francis novel is, to me, more leisurely and less suspenseful than any of the first eight. I found it an engaging book, none-the-less, but not nearly as exciting as his previous works.
I have always enjoyed Dick Francis and am re-reading the series. This one is fun because there are both an experienced and a novice pilot in it, a reminder of my youth.
Still a great read.I read Rat Race when it first came out in 1970 and I must have read it a dozen times since it still holds me completely from page one onwards to the last page.
Every now and then I read a book by Dick Francis, because I know what to expect. Amazing how he wrote a good book every year for decades.
Wow! This is super interesting. Another flying adventure along with the horsie crowd. Loved it
*3.7/5
Fast paced but not fascinating.
What's not to like? Any Dick or Felix Francis book is worth the candle. Likable protagonists and fun plots. I've read most of them. No pretense about being a great novel - just one to read when you need some down time.
As I think about all of his books (yes, this review covers all of his books, and yes I've read them all) I think about a moral ethical hero, steeped in intelligence and goodness embroiled in evil machinations within British horse racing society - either directly or indirectly.
The heroes aren't always horse jockies, they can be film producers, or involve heroes engaged in peripheral professions that somehow always touch the horse racing world.But more than that, Francis's heroes are rational human beings.
The hero's thoughts reveal a vulnerability that is touching, while his actions are always based on doing the right thing to achieve justice.
This is my first time to read a book by Dick Francis.
I wasn't really expecting anything, but am pleasantly surprised to like it.
It was a mixture of fear, a tense few minutes as my eyes race through the pages, a holding of breaths, and then releasing it with a sudden whoosh as I finally got to the point where it looks like everything might be alright after all.I also wasn't expecting to read a bit of romance in here, but once it has reared its head inside the story, I find that it fit quite nicely.
Maybe I should learn a lesson from DF but I'm afraid it's too late for me.For instance, in this story, our hero, a pilot named Matt Shore, has to break some aviation rules in order to save two people who are flying blind in another plane.
C'mon, he saved people's lives !!!!!!
Now, I'm all about the rules, I get it, but sometimes you just gotta do what's right.
Our hero, Matt, doesn't argue when he's brought before the board and fined.
As I said Francis's protagonists are much better people than I am.
Expectations might lift the edge of the cloud every time one took a new job, but life never turned out to be as good as the hopes."I did not particularly like the first pilot novel Francis wrote (Flying Finish), but this one was much, much better.
I liked the Matthew Shore character much better than the Henry Grey character and Francis shows in this novel that he was not only perfectly capable of writing a quite good novel about a pilot (so he wasn't just a one-trick pony, only capable of writing about horse-racing), but also that it's perfectly doable to write an uplifting story about a depressed and socially withdrawn character.
you'll definitely feel compelled to ask yourself while reading these books.
Like all of Dick Francis' novels, this one was a quick read, and engaging.
And while I didn't find the distance as engaging (mostly because I cracked the thing on an incredibly lazy day and apparently couldn't be bothered to feel anything), I did, by the end of the book, find it refreshing, if not downright moving.
So--a chink in the Francis armor, maybe: the narrator, through most of the book, feels too distant for me to get alongside of.
Meh. Still--onward, to the next mystery!Update: I just read this book again.
And I think I may have been reading the ending wrong all along.
What made it especially enjoyable to me was that the protagonist is a pilot -- and author Dick Francis clearly knows a lot about general aviation!
There's even a (less experienced) female pilot character.
I don't know whether Francis himself is a pilot or if he just picked a friend's brain, but as someone taking flying lessons right now, it was fun to read fiction set in that world.The book is simultaneously set in the world of horse racing, which I gather is a more usual realm for Francis's stories.
The aviation stuff is super fun!
They're her "comfort reads" and I can see why.
I've read about six of them now and have enjoyed every one of them.
But it seems to me that in each book I learn about other areas, too, such as film-making, gemology, survival, and in this particular instance small aircraft aviation.
In Rat Race, Matt Shore is a pilot for an air-taxi company and many of his clients are involved with the races, including popular jockey Colin Ross.
A lucky escape from a bomb, the sabotage of a plane, and Colin's attractive sisters are only part of what keeps this entertaining novel going.
In another review of a Dick Francis book I described how they all follow the same general pattern, and I've had no reason to change my mind about that.
If I were to guess, I would guess that Dick Francis was going through some kind of hard time when writing Rat Race.So is it good?
If you like Dick Francis books, you will like this one as well.
If you do not like them, then this is unlikely to change your mind.
Like all his books Rat Race is bite sized, and can quickly be swallowed even if the taste isn't perfect.For the record:Occupation: PilotHorse Race relationship: Flies jockeys and trainers between courses
What fun to find a classic Dick Francis novel from the early 1970s that I had not read already!
As we all know, Francis was a jockey before he was an author, but before that he was an RAF pilot in WW II flying Spitfires and Wellingtons.
Later his wife Mary also took up flying and together they operated a small three plane air charter service.
That background informs this novel featuring a depressed former BOAC pilot whose messy divorce and other circumstances have reduced him to flying racing personnel such as jockeys, owners, and trainers from one race course to another in small single engine aircraft.
Matt Shore has replaced the usual pilot on this run.
The people he meets are a bit strange.
I guess that is the way with racing folk.
He meets a woman named Nancy, becomes friends with her.
Her brother Colin is a jockey that flew on his plane.
Then on the flight back something did not feel right in the controls so Matt lands the plane.
The passengers don't want to land but he insists.
As soon as everyone is off, the plane explodes.
Matt knows he will be blamed.
Does it have to do with the horse racing passengers or his employer?
