https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4656.The_Fourth_Hand
John Irving's characters are often quirky to say the least.
I have often had a difficult time putting an Irving novel down.
This novel for some reason does not work.
The characters did not interest me, and I neither liked nor disliked most of them.
I often considered putting the book down for good, and not finishing it, which is NOT like me, once I get in very far.
Sorry for the short discussion, but I disliked this book so much I would rather not think about it too long now!
For those who have not tried Irving, don't judge him by this one!
For the standard that is John Irving, this book was so disappointing. I don't think he had much of a story and was depending on his characteristic literary traits to hold the story together, but unfortunately it backfired and instead of sustaining a mediocre story, turned all the things I loved about him into clichés and far-stretched half baked ideas. Do not judge Irving by this book, he is so much better than this!
On John Irving, I have six thoughts:1. He always seems to have a discombobulated male as his central character, Garp, the narrator in A Prayer for Owen Meany, the dad in The Hotel New Hampshire, and the young orphan in The Cider House Rules. They can be clueless, happy-go-lucky, confused, aimless, grief-stricken…2. There is also always some intriguing but slightly distant female.3. Irving loves the little bits of weirdness, like the woman in the bear costume in The Hotel New Hampshire.4. Irving
Irving loves the little bits of weirdness, like the woman in the bear costume in The Hotel New Hampshire.4.
The main question is whether he’s changed drastically and soon enough to deserve Doris, a grief-stricken woman whose husband’s hand Patrick now possesses.Now to my six points: 1) Patrick’s journey is worthy as long as everyone recognizes that he is not always the most engaging, sympathetic character.
Romanzo molto spassoso e con una critica assai condivisibile nei confronti della meschinità e della superficialità di un certo modo di intendere l’informazione. Tuttavia, rispetto ad altre opere dello stesso autore quali Il mondo secondo Garp, Le regole della casa del sidro, Preghiera per un amico oppure Figlio del circo, tanto per fare degli esempi, mi è parso di livello decisamente inferiore.
This story, with all its unlikely characters and the attendant twists and turns, has John Irving's mark all over it.
For me, the characters are believable and their stories come together to reveal the intricacies that tie them all to one another.
It is good and stands on its own.As an aside, I'll definitely be picking up, "The English Patient," and "Stewart Little" - the two books Irving mentioned in this story.
I enjoy picking up on the ongoing side bar commentary he seems to offer to anyone who is paying enough attention to what he has to say - aside from the obvious story line in his other books.
It pains me, LITERALLY PAINS ME, to give a John Irving novel anything less than 4 stars.
I could not relate to or care about any of the characters, the storyline was rather blah, and while I truly truly love him, Irving's writing STYLE and "voice" aren't visual music for me the way Nicole Krauss or Marianne Wiggins are so that couldn't save this book either.
Honestly, if it was written by someone other than J.I., I probably would have given it 3 stars, but John, I hold you to a higher standard.
Irving began it hoping it would be his first comedy since The Water-Method Man. The Fourth Hand is quite funny, especially in the earlier chapters, but it ends up growing out of its original intentions; by the end, you're not reading a comedy.
But Patrick is a shallow, womanizing little shit, and is good looking enough to get away with it.
This book is good because it's John Irving weaving a fun and bizarre tapestry like he always does.
The extra incentive here is the fact that this book is more continuously funny than usual, and this might be Irving's only novel where he doesn't try and tell the entire story of the main character's life.
Even the all-sports-news network struck gold: “you realize there are 32 people who aren't walking down to the football game."In The Fourth Hand, Wallingford is at the anchor desk the week of JFK Jr’s plane crash over Martha’s Vineyard.
There are 28,000 students at Virginia Tech and, by the end of this week, each will have been solicited for an on-camera interview, photographs of Cho Seung-Hui and more information about the thirty-two victims.
As I have re-read the first hundred pages or so, I've come to the realisation that I still won't remember that much about it because it isn't really about anything – or not anything I care about, anyway.My biggest problem with the book is that it just tries too damn hard to be clever and funny and, I suppose, Irvingesque.
Obviously my problem, because everyone knows just how original and funny John Irving is, everyone says so, therefore (as an old boyfriend often used to tell me when I failed to be amused by things that amused him) I have NO SENSE OF HUMOUR.
"La quarta mano": cioè la quarta di quaranta che sarebbero servite a Irving per scrivere qualcosa che fosse anche solo lontanamente paragonabile a "Il mondo secondo Garp" o "Preghiera per un amico".
Although it’s usually impossible to tell where Irving is going with a story, I have always been confident that he knew what he was doing, and I was truly comfortable ceding narrative vision to him as a master storyteller.
That vision is absent from “The Fourth Hand.” It pains me to say that this is the first John Irving novel that I do not truly love.
I had a hard time getting into the writing; it was shallow and quick, choppy even.
For me this novel was a case of the parts being better than the whole.
There were elements to the novel that I was fascinated by (Dr. Zajac, Doris Clausen), and parts that I just didn't get.
For example, the main character is, simply, a dufus.
And, apparently, handsome and vacuous enough to make women want to have his babies.
Did I ever want a shallow man's baby?
However, I never really cared much about the main character.
This novel follows the highlights and troughs in the life of Patrick Wallingford, a journalist working for a trashy 24-hour TV news station.
His life as a rather gormless libertine is disrupted by the entry of Mrs Clausen into his life.Whilst I liked the eccentric storyline in the book, I never felt any great emotion towards any of the characters.
But that wasn't nearly enough to keep me hooked.This is my first John Irving book though, and what I have picked up on is the vast wave of admiration that thousands of people feel for his writing.
As usual, Irving creates some slightly odd but memorable characters and does an excellent job of moving them and the story forward with his particularly unique style of humor, shock, and sensitivity.
I tire of some Amazon reviewers comparing an author’s novels to that author’s past works.
An American gem like John Irving constructs a distinct and different story with each new project.
Their (authors and their books that dare) quality should not be judged, measured, or based on previous works; in this case, A Widow for One Year, The World According to Garp, or The Cider House Rules.
Patrick Wallingford is the anchorman for a 'Disaster Channel'; a good looking vacuum, he loses a hand to a lion during a live TV segment that is shown around the world and which makes him a star.
He becomes the recipient of a hand transplant; only thing is, the donor's wife wants visiting rights.
Doris, however, is Irving at his worst - the novel grinds to a halt during Patrick the Void's infatuation with her and never really picks up again.
Pity, because it was such a great start - could have done with a plot transplant by the end.
A television reporter from New York, while filming a story in India, carelessly, moves too close to the cage of a lion.
In an instant, the lion grabs his hand and consumes it.
His left hand.
This makes world news.
The public can't get enough of it.
He's achieved instant celebrity status.
Minus a hand.He's been contacted by a donor to replace his left hand.
This act of charity was made by the deceased man's wife.
The stage is set for the first hand transplant.
And a future relationship with the wife.This was an amusing and shallow tale.
Irving's done better.
Too quirky, the writing seem forced, and in general, a slapdash effort. I have enjoyed every other Irving book I've read - so this was a big disappointment. I understand he wrote this book while also writing "until I found you". It seemed like he had a somewhat formed idea for a book and threw a loose story around it with unlike able characters.
Długo nie "wchodziło", ale jak już weszło to ojezusmaria.
Good. Odd. A bit short but definitely worth it. Lots of dark humor and good characters.
This is a really enjoyable and quick novel, despite all the shitty reviews it got.
His stories revolve around men and women serve as a sexual outlet.
However, Hemingway allowed for the development of strong relationships among the men (or between a man and a fish).
Irving's main characters tend to be loners who have no idea how to create deep relationships at all.Patrick Wallingford, a television reporter, loses his hand to a lion in a highly unbelievable scenario.
A Green Bay Packer fan, Doris Clausen, sees Wallingford on television and convinces her beloved husband to donate his hand to Wallingford.
Her husband accidentally shoots himself after the Packers lose a Superbowl and the hand goes to Wallingford.
I think Irving could write a grocery list and I would enjoy reading it... I love the way he creates and develops, and then follows the growth of his characters. I love the completeness, the wholeness he creates with his outrageously hilarious and thought-provoking stories. The way he strings words together on the page... so great!
עוד ספר מעולה מעט ג'יון אירווינג
Wat een rommel.
4.5 Stars. I really enjoyed this. I sympathized with Wallingford and I’m so glad he got the promise of the life he wanted. I still liked Owen Meany better but this is a close 2nd.
The encounter with Mrs. Clausen effects Wallingford in ways he could not have imagined at that point in his fast-paced, high-profile, completely insubstantial point in his life.
Wallingford, a shallow, thoughtless womanizer (a good looking guy who does not seduce but is seduced over and over again), realizes, thanks to Mrs. Clausen, that he wants more than anything to be happy.
The Fourth Hand is Wallingford's journey from Mrs. Clausen and back to her again.
In a delightful way, the text on a Kindle seems to be alive--perhaps because the Kindle makes it easy to connect with others reading the same book or to jump out of the book and into the online world for a while.
He has lost so much more.Witness any movie, any person walking down the street, any building, anything and you see something that someone has spent years and tears fashioning and moulding and creating.
That young girl you passed on the street with barely a glance was the product of her parent's efforts to conceive, her mother's pain to deliver, their time, instruction and money to raise, not to mention her own stumbling progress, as she fashioned the ways and means of getting by and built her springboards to success.
As a handsome, womanizing, reporter we see the story through his eyes, including the seminal event that makes him famous.
From that point on he becomes a celebrity known as “the lion guy” but as his life evolves, rather than becoming a tragic or pitiable figure his tribulations seem to attract even more women and what he calls “sexual chaos”.
He receives redemption as the story progresses but the question becomes: Is this an odyssey of the sexual politics of men and women in modern society or an exploration of how the media shapes our lives?
I happen to love most of John Irving's books which are always populated by odd, quirky, unique and unlikely characters.
A Prayer for Owen Meany is extraordinarily beautiful and I will always have it in the top ten best books of all time.
The Cider House Rules, The Hotel New Hampshire and The World According to Garp are funny, sad, tender and complex stories.
So, I expected a deliciously entertaining book.
I expected another 4.5 to 5 star book, and it hurts to rate it at anything less than 4.
He brought out every tiny bit of humor and projected the weakness and sadness of the character.
I read A Prayer For Owen Meany last year and loved it so much that I wanted to read more of this amazing author John Irving.The Fourth Hand was not what I expected.
(Don't panic, friends - I haven't read and don't intend to read Fifty Shades.
I've heard enough about it to use it as a comparison.)I love the way John Irving puts words together.
there's no way I could have completely loved this book.Don't ever say I recommended The Fourth Hand to you.
If you want to read a fantastic book by a brilliant author, read A Prayer for Owen Meany.
