https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7069.The_World_According_to_Garp
When he asks her why she read a particularly disturbing novel, she answers "To find out what happens next." Later, she adds, "A book's true when you can say "yeah!
That's how damn people behave all the time."This says a lot about John Irving.
I love John Irving in particular, partly because I'm always wondering what's always going to happen next, and partly because, despite all the outrageousness of his characters, they behave the way real people behave.
Of course, I wouldn't want to be a John Irving character,because terrible things are always happening to them.
I'd say that "Lolita" and "Love in the Time of Cholera" are the two best written books I've ever read.
But if I had to pick my all time favorite book I'd probably go with "The World According to Garp".
But this not a movie review, so let me conclude by stating that if you are a fan of masterful story telling and larger than life but still quite realistic characters, pick up this book.
I'm jealous of everyone who gets to accomplish what I can do no longer - to read this wonderful book for the very first time.
I had heard so much positive about this book...that it was on my 'Books to Read Before I Die'...list. Well, I will die with having read 1/2 of it. I kept reading, I guess...because of how great it was supposed to be. I mean...John Irving! I got to the half way point and thought..."Where is this going?!" I then realized I really didn't care. And put it down. Page after page, I finally came to the realization there wasn't enough of a story/plot to get me to turn another page. 'So many books...too little time.'
Oh My ---I think I need to read this again........Maybe I was on drugs the first time I read it.................(wait: I didn't do drugs --even during the 60's while living in Berkeley .....I was a straight arrow)! Maybe that was my problem........Help.............I must read this book again!I have my reasons --I'm leaving it at that!
Right from the beginning, I saw that this was going to be one of Irving's quirky masterpieces.
So many weird and crazy things were happened as we followed Garp and his mother, Jenny, but each quirky thing I encountered only made me fall in love with the book even more.
Like most of Irving's other novels I loved this book so much!
It's a story about feminism, loss and transsexuality as well as so many other things, and if you're a fan of John Irving it's a must-read!
Hilarity ensues...The son, Garp, is a writer who becomes one to "conquer the girl." Forgive my disgust for this Norman Rockwell portrait, this American fairy tale convention...
This is like a distortion of a Rockwell American dreamscape, really.
But though I must admit parts read like my all-time-fave "Confederacy of Dunces" (keeping colloquialisms intact!), this is No masterpiece.
But it IS a front runner in modern-day fiction...
and I can't help but think that this one started all these moder-day melodramas rife with style (emblematic quirks in character, caricaturization of "serious" players...) over substance (...depth).
I just hope it’s the kind of crap that’ll make you feel better, or the kind of crap that’ll emphasize something important you already know, or the kind of crap that feels real, like my experience with this book.
But maybe in this dying field this book of fatalities called The World According to Garp is one of the best ever written.
In any case, it’s a book about life, fittingly, chock full with deaths.
Maybe life really is like that, maybe the things that hurt appear from time to time, cloaked with our anxiety amplifying our pain.
Catch 22  ,  Birdy  ,  One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest  , World according to Garp  .
World according to Garp  , the most known Irving's novel narrates about this strange thing called life .
This is a book people love or hate or love to hate .
It’s America in distorting mirror , melange of caricatural behaviours and strange relationships .
And this statement that  in the world according to Garp , we are all terminal cases  somehow does not worry me at all .
I know , there is a life after Garp .
The novel is cleverly structured (it could be a literary theorist's wet dream); Garp himself is a novelist, and shards of his work appear throughout this novel, including the third chapter of his third novel, The World According to Bensenhaver.
Is Garp so boring because his (boring) mom ascribes all the world's problems to "lust," which she understands about as well as the Victorians who put dresses on table legs?
(I shouldn't demean the Victorians; they had it all over her.)There's plenty of stuff that could be interesting.
At the end of the day, Garp is a book about boring people being boring.
Book #4 in my John Irving Challenge, and the best one yet.The idea that men and women are equal seems to me a basic truth.
Meaning, I do not believe he sat around after completing this book gloating over how progressive and clever he was in his writing of it.The novel also deals with female rape from a man's point of view.
He discusses how men deal emotionally with the rape of a female loved one.
Such diverse characters bring so many social issues to the fore, there is so much covered and artfully written how can you go past a book that thrusts rape, mutilation, feminism, sexuality, transgenders and depression and still entertain with humour.
This book is a wonder, on one hand it's depressing as hell, there is death (a lot of death) references of rape is a recurring theme but amongst all the heaviness and serious issues what it's best at is finding the flaws but also embracing the eccentricities, these are the people that colour Garp's world and it's a joy to behold.
August 2008Quite possibly my favorite book. Irving is a master here; it's a brilliant story, and it feels more like a life than a novel--the life of T.S. Garp, not just a novel about him. Garp's world seem so true, even if, like The Hotel New Hampshire (another favorite), the story departs from a historical setting (WWII and later postwar America and Europe) and goes on to forge a unique, magical--and entirely believable--history of its own. Not many novels--and not many writers--can really do that.
"Mind you, it's awfully well written", Wolf had said, "but it's still, somehow, soap opera; it's too much, somehow." Garp had sighed.
"Life,"Garp had said, "is too much, somehow.
Many a times Irving stops just short of being unrealistic.
Even with all sorts of zaniness, Irving manages to keep the narrative under remarkable control.
And despite everything, the novel still has a great semblance to real life.
Irving takes one on a journey that ranges from boundless happiness to deep sorrow, from love to hatred and all that variety of emotions which real people feel in real lives.
I had heard great things about this book. It deals a lot with feminism, parental paranoia, and the challenges of career ambitions. I kept assuming this book was on the brink of something totally earth-shattering, so I kept turning the pages, and it never came.
Irving's work is nothing short of genius, and one of my three favourite books ever (the other two are Crime and Punishment and Catch-22).
Gender roles - such a hot and controversial topic today - was foreshadowed as a big social issue by Irving all those years ago.
If you haven't seen the movie with Robin Williams in the starring role and John Lithgow giving a superb performance as Roberta Muldoon, watch it.
Infatti la sua scrittura si riconosce, forse accade per ogni autore ma Irving ha un modo di raccontare e di creare fiction che indubbiamente riconducono a lui.Potresti per gioco aprire un suo romanzo a caso, cominciare a leggerne una frase nel bel mezzo di una pagina e capiresti al volo chi è l’autore, come un neonato che vede a mala pena intorno a sé ma sa riconoscere, tra mille seni, quell’unico seno della madre, o come quando da lontano si riconosce una persona cara solo dal modo di camminare, dalla sua andatura tipica quelle spalle erette o un po’ all’in giù, quella falcata allegra o spenta, come si abbandonano le braccia o la testa che si piega da un lato.Un altro merito di Irving è saper confezionare delle storie o, meglio, saper tratteggiare dei personaggi che rimangono a lungo, direi per sempre, scolpiti nel cuore.Garp per esempio o Owen in Preghiera per un amico, o anche la stramba famiglia di Hotel New Hampshire, personaggi che hanno uno smalto che resta brillante nei ricordi, senza mai sbiadire.
Looking back, such a great book, have to re-read this one too!
I can only try to discern any message that the author had on sex, lust and individuality by glossing over the complete mess that he smears over any message by presenting farcical situations in an otherwise traditional setting and by using Garp's writing to mock the novel that it contains.
While I am critical of the motives of the author and story there is still a lot to enjoy here.
The other reactions I've gotten range from "You'll grow out of it once you find the right person" to "You are deathly ill and need to go to a doctor immediately because there is no possibility that any living human can live without sexual attraction." And, though it's depressing to admit, that's probably the reaction I would get from more people if I bothered to bring it up.Keeping all that in mind, can you see why I was amazed that a book, written in the seventies, in the time just after professionals stopped referring to homosexuality as "sexual inversion", and by a heterosexual male contains an otherwise healthy and normal character who just happens to not want sex?
i have an ongoing love affair with john irving, and it all started with this book.
i read it for the first time when i was a tad too young, and it has had a freakishly large impact on me.
this book is a must-read.
you will keep reading just to know if something more ridiculous will happen soon, but find yourself surprised at your attachment to the characters.
it is also unbelievably moving - there is a section that i tend to skip now, simply because i will start sobbing too hard if i read it.
i learned what a douche bag was from this book.
My first time to read a book by John Irving (born in 1942) and I am quite impressed.
Irving made almost all pages worth your while as if he wanted to please you so you won't find anything wrong with it.
This book came up after his three earlier novels only got lukewarm reviews from the literary critics (Source: Wikipedia).The main characters is T.S. Garp the son of a strong-willed nurse Jenny who does not want a husband but only a baby.
Here it goes: "The world according to Garp..." is tough and full of tragedy and laughter is one way of enduring it.This is one of the memorable books I've ever read.
Perhaps inspired by that experience, I now allow myself to give up if I'm at least 100 pages in, which would have improved my "Garp" experience.The first sign I should have seen that this wasn't going to be a good book was that it is "semi-autobiographical" about the author Irving, recounting the life of Garp, who happens to be a famous writer.
I can't think of a single good book about an author's life, and after reading "Garp," I still can't.So you think, okay, not the most original idea for a book, but let's hope that something interesting happens to make it worth our time.
I think I may be too young for this book. I've done that a few times--read a book, then later realized that I just wasn't old enough for it. Take Kerouac's  On the Road , for instance. I read it in 7th grade and thought it was dumb. Of course. Everything is still black and white then--drugs are bad, you shouldn't like bad people, and I'm going to be ___________ when I grow up. However, re-reading it near the end of college, with no idea what in the hell I'm going to do and a bit more of an under
I think I may be too young for this book.
However, re-reading it near the end of college, with no idea what in the hell I'm going to do and a bit more of an understanding of drugs under my belt, I loved it.
However, I imagine that thirty years in, if you discover that twenty-five years ago your young and stupid spouse did something monumentally idiotic, it's more of a situation that calls for a kick in the nuts (or maybe two) than vehicular homicide.The point is, I feel this work to be far inferior to The Cider House Rules, and, of course, A Prayer for Owen Meany.
I finally decided to settle at four stars, because this is an impactful book with remarkable prose, but I didn’t always appreciate the tactics used to ensure the proper response from the reader.The whole reason I decided to read this book in the first place was because a wonderful new author whose debut I adored (Cheris Wolas with The Resurrection of Joan Ashby) recommended it.
I love when authors (referring to Wolas and Irving here, not Ashby and Garp) stretch themselves like this in a book, including various stories written by a fictional character whose voice they had to both create and differentiate from their own.
I can't finish this book. I'm really bothered by a character ummm trait? Habit? Depravity?
I'd like to share with you his thoughts:VCF: ....another of my favorite authors, John Irving, has built his whole career on writing about characters who have gone through highly similar experiences to his own.
He's recently talked in interviews about how this is a way that he has tried to deal with some personal issues, including a--gasp--relationship with an older woman when he was very young!
Perhaps it took a person with Irving's background to write A Widow for One Year.
Just one tragedy involving a nurse.I had no idea about Irving as a person when I read him.

There are some people that say that they only read non-fiction because they prefer something "true" or "genuine" as opposed to something that an author just "made up".
These are the people that should read The World According to Garp.When we read fiction, we are omniscient.
The question of course being, can we improve on the truth?While weaving readers into this maze of almost understanding, the author peppers the novel with stories from his children's childhood’s that the reader is meant to assume are in fact true.

Man šķiet, ka Ērvingam ir izdevies tas, ko viņš piedēvē Garpa spalvai: "Rakstnieka darbs ir iztēloties visu tik personiski, ka literārs sacerējums kļūst tikpat dzīvs kā mūsu personiskās atmiņas." Tik sasodīti patiess romāns. Un tik fantastiski traģikomiskas epizodes.Pilnā atsauksme: https://gramatas.wordpress.com/2017/0...
