https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66370.Rage
RAGE…we’ve all experienced it, whether bumper to bumper on the roads, interacting with ass stains at work, or railing against the evils of beachfront development. Here, Stephen King explores the darkest aspect of this emotion, and strikes a chord that can be felt by anyone who remembers the awkwardness, the insecurity, the anger-inducing turbulence of being a teenager. King taps a mighty strong vein in this one. Originally entitled Getting It On, this early effort of the master, while less polis
This is Catcher in the Rye meets American Psycho, and it is made all the more eerie by the echoes and reflections of real life high school shootings that this story is sure to conjure in the mind of the reader.
This all happens faster than you can say “Holy Shit, Stephen King wrote this gripping, evocative story while he was in High School…High School…that over-abundantly talented bastard.” This just sets the stage for the real drama to come.
If I had one gripe about some of King’s novels, it’s that his endings are letdowns from the slow, creeping horror of the set up.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/This was a super shorty so there isn’t a whole lot to say without giving the entire thing away. I’ll just leave it as . . .  “This,” I said pleasantly, “is known as getting it on.” Yep. Ol’ Charlie’s having a bit of a shit day and to top it all off . . .  It probably says something for the state of the universe (or at least the state of my psyche) that this book left me with such a “meh” reaction. I’d blame it on the fact that it was w
It probably says something for the state of the universe (or at least the state of my psyche) that this book left me with such a “meh” reaction.
For Rage being a book that was pulled from printing by King due to its disturbing nature I didn’t find it to be all that disturbing.
Bottom line is I was left feeling like this .
“You are disturbed, Charlie.”
My friend Councillor does a much better job explaining why this story didn’t quite live up to expectations and even uses words instead of pictures to do the talking!
........Sad and Frightening........RAGE is the story of a disturbed child....who becomes a disturbed teen....who acts out on his frustrations by taking a hand gun to school his senior year, taking the life of his algebra teacher, and holding his class hostage for several hours.
All are cooperative....except one.........A good portion of this short read is dedicated to Charlie discussing his feelings and regrets, but be prepared for a few shockers along the way.........RAGE is one of Stephen King's earliest novels written under pen name Richard Bachman, a work he has pulled from the market due to real time events 'somewhat' resembling the storyline.
Charlie Decker takes a room full of his classmates hostage.
Will any of them walk out alive?In this Bachman book, Holden Caulfield takes the Breakfast Club hostage with a pistol.
At least, that's what the book feels like to me.Rage is a really quick read, short and to the point.
King can say he wanted it out of print because of all the school shootings in the last couple decades but I have to wonder if quality wasn't also a contributing factor.Charlie Decker is a bit of a outcast and has a whole dresser drawer full of issues.
I'll give Bachman/King that.
He holds his entire class hostage and the rest of the book is basically a psychotherapy session wherein he and his classmates tell stories of times when they “got it on.” (no sexual connotation) Are we all a little bit crazy?
:-)) There are at least two instances of teenagers taking guns to school and holding their classmates hostage after reading this book.
He is like that friend that we all have who can tell a story about something completely benign and have you rolling on the floor with laughter or make you cry just by recounting the plot of a sad movie.
I’m sad that more people won’t get the chance to read this book.
Lately I've been wondering about why violence seems to breed so freely in the United States (I don't have an answer by the way).
Everywhere I seem to look there is something violent being portrayed: books, movies, music, art, heck, even CNN is going to do a new segment on Cold Cases that they have deemed so interesting that further exploration is needed--Tupac and Biggie, here's your chance to spin a few more rhymes...Anyway, I was sitting in my basement, perusing my collection of books, wondering what to read next, when The Bachman Books caught my eye.
Spree killers may have been victims in their past, but they become perpetrators the moment they commit their crimes, and Charlie's crime is a horrible one - however, King depicts him as the victim during the entire course of the story, not only by telling the book from his first-person point of view, but also by making the hostage-taking feel like an afternoon coffee party.
In my opinion, "Rage" is a thriller with dramatic components, but does not belong into the section of King books meant to be horror novels.)
Finally, I've read this elusive novel!The first thought I had after reading this was: It's a shame this book is no longer in print.The reason it was removed from print, by request from Stephen King himself, is because the novel was found in the locker of Michael Carneal, a bullied boy who opened fire on students at Heath High School in 1997.
In fact, many of King's characters in his other novels have been far more violent than Charlie was in Rage.
I think there is a lot that can be learned from Rage (and books of a similar nature) in why violence in schools happens.
In light of all the school shootings that have occurred since this book was written, I understand why King pulled it from publication in later editions of The Bachman Books.
I re-read RAGE so that I could take part in a local Stephen King book group, and I'm glad that I did.
(Though I'm still waffling about actually attending the group meeting, as my introvert alarm is sounding.) I say that I'm glad because this story reminded me that King hasn't always been the master of storytelling that he is today, he stumbled now and then.
But hey, even when he stumbles he gets 3/5 stars from me because RAGE is a compelling tale.
Hmmmmmm...... I have very mixed thoughts on this one.
At the end of his road lies a gun in one hand, two teachers in his path, and a surreal Lord of the Flies few hours with his fellow students in a classroom.In Rage, there is some crazy good writing that I did not expect, being one of King’s earliest works.
The best parts of the novel were those brief stories told by Charlie and the other students because they were like synapses bridging time, explaining so much in so few words.
“Getting it on”, as Decker would say.Finally, my 1985 copy of The Bachman Books: Four Early Novels includes an intro by Stephen King titled, “Why I was Bachman”.
King considered The Long Walk to be the other only good book of these five.
Es el libro que más me estremeció después de Cementerio de animales.
Existe un Mr. Hyde para cada feliz rostro de doctor Jekyll, una cara oscura al otro lado del espejo.Es la obra más controvertida de Stephen King por ser usada como inspiración en jóvenes estudiantes para cometer atentados contra sus compañeros en Estados Unidos.
Por eso King la retiró del mercado en su edición inglesa.
Tiene un final demencial.En definición, es un libro muy fuerte.
Es más inteligente de lo que aparenta y no tiene desperdicio.
Es una obra muy polémica, pero eso no le quita excelsitud.
Καλό...αλλά όχι κάτι ιδιαίτερο......Διαβάζεται πολύ εύκολα κάτι στο οποίο βοηθάει και η πρωτοπρόσωπη αφήγηση αλλά και τα μικρά κεφάλαια αλλά παρόλα αυτά...ντάξει....δεν με ενθουσίασε.....ούτε κρύο, ούτε ζέστη.....
Especially the story that Decker recounts of his sexual misadventure while under the influence of marijuana, seemed like a streamlined and polished retelling of an event by a professional writer - and not what must have been a painful recollection of a relatively traumatic (or frustrating and embarassing at the least) event by a teenage boy.All in all, although the book was an easy read due to King's very accessible style, (and definitely an infinitely more gripping read than Catcher in the Rye), I'm giving it only 2 stars due to the plain mean-spiritedness of character that shines through on every page, not to mention the trivialisation of (and even glimmers of glorification of) cruelty and violence.EDIT: I've slept on it, and I think I need to downgrade my rating to a 1.
Intense…just fucking intense.[Charles Decker, un adolescente desequilibrado que, después de ser expulsado del instituto por agresión a un profesor, vuelve a clase armado con la pistola de su padre y secuestra en un aula a sus 24 compañeros.A partir de ahí, la policía llega al colegio para tratar de liberar a los alumnos pero Charlie no los va a dejar ir.
Sin dudas, es una persona trastornada quien experimentó varios traumas en su infancia, sobre todo por parte de su padre, y es por esto que decide llevar el arma de su padre al colegio.La situación que se desarrolla dentro de ese aula es increíble, las historias, los miedos y los secretos que surgen entre los adolescentes es una revelación.
This is a coming of rage type of story where the main protagonist is a character that you hear about more and more in todays society. He gives us glimpses in the past, what ticked him off, what made him flip and the people you feel failed him. He is a by-product of society and mans failures. King balances out the seriousness of the story with quite a bit of dark humour. All in all a good read, one that stays with you and makes you think that could be the kid next door.  "High-school toilets are
This is a coming of rage type of story where the main protagonist is a character that you hear about more and more in todays society.
It makes you sure that the sound is clearly audible in the adjacent classroom and that everybody is thinking: Well, there goes another load.""Metaphor time in the old corral: To Dad, life was like a precious antique car.
And if a bird shits on your windscreen, you wipe it off before it can dry there.
That was Dad's life, and I was the bird shit on his windscreen."
What I dug most was the unexpected bonding of most of the classmates, even if I felt bad for a particular character they kept picking on.It's short and most of the book is talking - not actually very violent outside the beginning - and there isn't a concrete reason given for the violence other than the character being unstable and super angsty.
He makes Holden Caulfield appear almost optimistic.The ending shows that the bond went beyond the classroom, and that the teens persisted in thinking the adults were all artificial beings who couldn't possibly understand them.
I guess maybe that's the point after all - some things aren't understandable.
I’m not sure how to review this book, because I liked it and yet I didn’t.It’s a short, quick read and well written considering it’s King’s first book, but I found it unpleasant and bleak.
It reminded me a little of Lord of the Flies.The story dragged through the middle and I had to force myself to keep reading.
I won’t bother to read it again.***CONNECTIONS:High school teacher Jean Underwood shares her surname with Larry Underwood (The Stand)Richard Stark – The pseudonym of author Donald E Westlake.
He shares the same surname with George Stark (The Dark Half)Pig Pen – There was also a student nicknamed Pig Pen in Cain Rose Up.
Background – “Rage” was the first novel by Stephen King published under the pseudonym of Richard Bachman, originally published back in 1977.
The only primary way to read it is to find it in a used bookstore in either the individual form or in the omnibus version of “The Bachman Books”.
As I read it again for the first time in many years, two primary thoughts struck me.
I really feel like that writing books under the pseudonym of Richard Bachman was about King letting that “inside inner” voice (the one where we would never admit things to ourselves) come out full force like a fully pressured firehose.
I'm sure that this story is terrifying in the same way that Misery is terrifying: It could really happen.
I loved that the kids in Charlie's class were so open and honest with each other, with the exception of Ted. I was left wondering what exactly happened to Ted, both behind closed doors while in the classroom and afterward, but it's not hard to make an educated guess.
This is a hard one to find in print, but luckily I was able to find a used copy of The Bachman Books: Four Early Novels by Richard Bachman which contained the story.
Una novela polémica que fue retirada por su autor debido a una serie de trágicos sucesos que acontecieron en EEUU. Una historia cruda que habla sobre represión, libertad y que tristemente tras 30 años sigue de actualidad. No es una de las mejores novelas que he leído de King pero retrata de manera magistral el perfil de un psicópata víctima de la represión social.
Written under the pseudonym "Richard Bachman" and pulled from the shelves by its author, The Rage is a hard book to nail.
It isn't.It is the story of a school shooter who takes a classroom hostage, but the violence isn't glorified, and is almost glossed over in the progression to get us into that room.
It far outstrips other teens-without-supervision stories like Breakfast Club, but its premise, or that it may have helped inspire real life violence, may still be too much for some readers.(written April 2006; edited for typos May 2014)
4/10A disappointing read, I was looking forward to this twofold; it’s a King book but also because it has an elusive feel about it with it now no longer being in print.
Or maybe the Breakfast Club soured his stomach for this sort of thing.It’s a short story yet it took me quite a while to get through which, to me, speaks volumes on how much I enjoyed this.
I’ve read somewhere that King produced this when he was in school and wanted to try publishing under his pseudonym, maybe just to see if it stood up to judgement.
I found this story to be a whole load of MEH. Charlie did not come across as sympathetic to me, the writing felt overdone and tried too hard to be sharp and philosophical at times (‘But my arms were too tired to pull down temples. I was never cut out to be Samson’ - lol okay), and the situation was unrealistic and disturbing. The ending... ugh.First one in the Bachman collection down. Things can only get better, right?
At a time when American kids were walking into schools and killing bullies, tough teachers, and anyone else who got in their way, he thought the subject matter was just a little too incendiary, especially because, in this book, the kids being held hostage in the classroom start to side more and more with the killer.
Charlie’s father-hatred eventually transfers to other cruel authority figures and erupts when a teacher begins to ridicule him in front of the class for not understanding a Physics problem.
Saber que Stephen King pidió que no lo publicaran más me llamó.
Según yo sabía a lo que iba, sabia cual era el tema principal.
Me esperaba algo sangriento, tipo Gore, no lo que leí.
Pero lo que leí fue un desarrollo de personajes brutal (Maestro Stephen King), el personaje principal Decker nos lleva a través de sus rincones y lugares oscuros.
Como poco a poco fue perdiendo la cordura, como psicópata no reconoce sus actos como un daño, los ve como un favor.
Pero no fue solo el personaje de Charlie, cada personaje secundario te atrapa.
I don't know how to dislike Stephen King.
Everyone comes to like Charlie decker and to dislike the one person who actually does think he is dangerous.
You can tell that King started writing this book in high school because Charlie comes off as a person who doesn't understand how the world works and thinks his classmates will like him more if he does something like shooting his algebra teacher.
King let this book go out of print, mostly because of its relation to real life school shooters but I don't think not having this book on the market is a bad thing because it just isn't a very good book.
I know there’s a lot of mixed reviews on this one so I was a bit wary going into it but they turned out to be unnecessary because I absolutely loved it! It’s such a dark and chilling story and it drew me right in and sunk its claws into me. I didn’t like our main character but I did absolutely LOVE to hate him and that’s almost better than loving and relating to a character. I will admit some parts were a teeny bit confusing but that’s only to be expected when the narrator is insane!
I think in a happier household or one that was more caring, there wouldn't be a story.The characters in this book are very well fleshed out, and feel like real people.
Now I don't condone what he did at all, and as a parent I worry about my son getting older and going to school with crazy situations like this happening in today's society.
Not only has this happened several times in history, but when you read about how calm Charlie was throughout the whole story, it is absolutely terrifying.
