https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/542953.A_Gathering_of_Old_Men
This is the fourth book by Professor Gaines to be read by "The Trail."Come join us.All but one of Ernest J.
Neither Gaines or any of the other children on the plantation had access to a library.
Ernest Gaines lived in poverty for the first fifteen years of his life.
After the publication of his first novel, Catherine Carmier in 1964, Gaines returned to Louisiana.
But people like Ernest Gaines are a lot more important than anyone has fully recognized."This is my second reading of A Gathering of Old Men. I've also listened to the wonderful Audible edition of the novel.
"But they comes a day, Sheriff, they comes a day when a man got to stand".And that's what this book is about.
Wow, here's a simply written book that packs one walloping punch. Written in 1983 by Ernest J Gaines, this book which won high acclaim as the best novel about racial tension in that decade, still rings all too true today.Read ( slightly ahead) for On The Southern Literary Trail-Sept. 5 stars
It is an amazing book, especially so because of the deft, multifaceted approach it takes in attacking the subject of racism.
It attacks the way racism plays with our fears.
My thanks to the folks at the  On the Southern Literary Trail group, and especially to Lawyer Mike, its chief moderator, for allowing me the opportunity to read and discuss this and many other fine books with my friends.FYI: On a 5-point scale I assign stars based on my assessment of what the book needs in the way of improvements:*5 Stars – Nothing at all.
Written in a simple and straightforward fashion, this book is anything but simple in its message and impact.
The choice of having a different narrator for each chapter would not work well in just anyone’s hands, but Gaines is not just anyone, and he makes this device serve to reveal the truth of the situation without any bias or personal slant.How could anyone read this without feeling a great deal of pride for the subject old men?
When Charlie declares, “I am a man,” he seems to speak not just for himself, but for all of the old men.
An excellent and important read.
I often think that a five-star rating is just too many stars to choose from, but after reading this novel, five stars is just not enough.
It was hard to put the book down, but necessary at times just to take a deep breath before continueing to read (and breathe).
This is the second novel by Gaines I read (this month, ever).
After reading A Lesson Before Dying I thought my expectations for this book might just be too high.
I already ordered two more of his books/stories and after I finishing this review I will add Ernest J.
Though it is a short novel, barely 200 pages, it packs a powerful punch as it portrays the need of a few elderly black men to finally stand up to the injustices that they felt living with Jim Crow.
The raw emotion and dignity that is felt as one by one they tell their stories about the horror of being black in the deep south during the 30’s, 40’s and 50’s is gut-wrenching.
There are so many lessons in this book - letting go of fears, standing up to injustice, when does something wrong become something right?
But I was frustrated that he effectively silenced every woman in the book after the first quarter or so of it, especially the black women.
And seeing's how women - black and white - ended up standing between a gun barrel and what they thought was right, I think their silencing at Gaines's hands was unnecessary and (I have to admit) a little insulting.
Maybe "A Gathering of Old Men" should be considered a primary source now.
There comes a time in every man’s life when it’s time to stand and fight – though it might take him eighty-years.
“I know I’m old, maybe even crazy, but I’m going anyhow.” And as kind attracts kind, courage comes in numbers.
A Gathering of Old Men is truly a masterfully written, southern literary gem, rich in authenticity of voice, characters, nuances, and flavor.
Set in Louisiana during the seventies (a time of pivotal tensions - racial, cultural, and economic) the story unfolds like a sticky, festering, humid bayou day; years of injustice so oppressively thick it’s like a cauldron of sugarcane molasses ready to boil over.
. .A Gathering of Old Men: Classic, atmospheric southern-literature of excellence.
This was the second or third time that I have used this book in a reading class, and with each read it reveals more to me and increases my appreciation of Ernest Gaines' writing.Gaines' device of using different narrators for each chapter gives this book a layered perspective of the events that happen over one day on a Louisiana sugar cane plantation in the nineteen seventies.
Gaines knows his subject, Southwestern Louisiana and its people, well.After a couple of chapters the students became interested in the story and often commented that they wanted to read beyond the assignment in order to find out what happens next.
I really enjoyed this story, which derives much of its power from its portrayal of racial tensions in the South a decade after the civil rights movement by exploring the topic from both sides, something I haven't noticed in similar books that I've read.The writing is strong.
The characters are colorful and filled with life, and I was impressed by the dialogue, which is something that can make or break a book for me.I also didn't mind the multiple POV characters (each chapter is told by a different character who is usually (not always) a passive observer in that scene).
Destined to be one of my top reads for 2012, this is a powerful tale of the deep south and the terri
Excellent! Powerful, thought-provoking book by a very talented writer. I am looking forward to reading his other works.
review to come
There, one white woman and about 18 armed, old black men go nose-to-nose with the sheriff and his inept deputy over the death of a Cajun farmer.
They engage in a day-long stand-off while Sheriff Mapes waits for the lynch mob he believes will come to vindicate the death of the Cajun.The black men unite in what they believe is their last stand against bigotry and its attendant physical and psychological abuses.
As the hours tick by, though, these men as well as the would-be lynch mob learn--reluctantly and with a considerable fight--that times have changed, that being a man requires something other than beating down someone else.
I tell myself this book would have made sense if it were set in the 40s but surely these things did not go on in the 70s.
Even as I think this I read on; one of the women says "And let's don't be getting off into that thirty-five, forty, fifty year ago stuff, either.
So let's don't be putting it all on no thirty-five, forty, fifty years ago like everything is so nicety-nice now." p.108 I think this is a truthful book and that makes me sad and I want to point to the racism in other parts of the country and the world.
A Gathering of Old Men by Ernest Gaines is an excellent book.
but all the Old Men in the area gather around, and each claims to have done it.
The sheriff believes he knows who did it but must sift through all the stories before he can act.Gradually the reader learns more about the past hurts and cruelties suffered by the Old Men and also learns about the views of the family of the deceased.
Well-intentioned people: take note.A Gathering of Old Men subtly and beautifully reveals many community and individual dynamics and gives the reader much to ponder.
I decided against an afternoon at a fantastic art museum in favor of finishing this book!
In fact, as I got closer and closer to the end, I had to set it down time after time, as I couldn't handle the suspense--but then I had to pick it up again in 30 sec or so, because I just HAD to know what happened.
How did I not know about this author until now??
This book was published in 1983, at a time when I didn't read fiction for almost 2 decades.
I will now read anything else of his I can get my hands on.

Gaines uses the device of multiple narrators most famously used by William Faulkner in As I Lay Dying to tell a story largely through the points of view of a segment of the southern population that Faulkner depicted only from the distant vantage point of the old white aristocracy—impoverished African Americans sharecropping white landowners’ plantations, in this case the Louisiana bayou country in the 1970’s.
In general, Gaines is successful in depicting a variety of points of view from a wide range of characters, black and white, and the dialogue feels accurate with just a few exceptions where it sounds like it was lifted from a weekly TV drama.
The novel's key characters on the cover.
Beautiful.The use of multiple narrators gives the story its fierce solidity.Set in sugarcane Louisiana in the 1970s, years of simmering tensions between black and white, man and woman, man and man, over the murder of a horrific Cajun white man (Beau Boutan), supposedly committed by Mathu, black father-figure to white woman Candy, finds a host of elderly black men standing tall, claiming (along with Candy) that each and all had committed murder...
They stand together to finally become men instead of "niggers." The novel ends on a hopeful note.
This is a tale of a dead white men in 1970s Louisiana on a sugarcane plantation and all the black men in the quarter who decided that today, today they were going to stick together for this cause.
It's a bit more than that, but that is the set up for this simply written book.
I enjoyed the social commentary of the book and the depth of the characters, but to be honest that's about it.
It's not a bad book by any means, just kind of boring.
Ernest Gaines is among the most talent American authors living today.
Calling upon his childhood growing up in the Louisiana sugar cane fields, Gaines takes us into the world of rural blacks in the deep south.
In A Gathering of Old Men, Gaines presents a kaleidoscope of the 20th century black experience through the 1970s.
It is powerful.
It is raw.
It is moving.For more insight into Gaines and his writing, look for an interview with him on YouTube during which he explains what he learned from writers like Hemingway and what these classic writers have to say to young African-Americans.
I loved this book! It’s like "The Magnificent Seven" transformed into The Geriatric Eighteen. It is both comedic and tragic, and I believe it deserves its status as a classic of recent American literature.This is one of those books that made me so excited by reading it. It’s an ineffable feeling that hits you when you know you have come upon something really good. Rating: 4.5/5
Have read several of Ernest Gaines books - simple prose for complicated social situations.
This novel reads like a play and I could easily see it adapted for the stage.
I loved the format.
Almost like a slide show with quick shots of the situation from each character.
This was also a good reminder that it is possible to read in color ( not just because of the race stuff)- Gaines uses colors as adjectives in a very precise and informative way that perfectly compliments the mood.
The end was also too abrupt.I did tear up a couple of times early on, but by the end, this started to feel like a string of cliches.
read more of Gaines.
GoodRead
I could not put this book down! Honestly, it moved me. It was wonderfully written and each character left something in me. This book is definitely worth 5 stars.
When the meanest white cracker in the Parish is shot dead on a sugar plantation, the sheriff is summoned.
He finds a white woman and eighteen old black men with shotguns.
The sheriff thinks he knows who shot the man, but each old man insists that he did it, despite threats and physical abuse, and each promise to incite a riot at the courthouse if the sheriff arrests him.Meanwhile, the dead man's family is gathering their supporters to form a lynch mob to take care of the problem themselves.As the day goes on, each one of the old men learns to stand up fr themselves as men and not as second class citizens.
