https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17693783-the-quest
The priest’s info gives the three journalists a starting point to try and locate the monastery, but traveling in Ethiopia during a war is a dangerous undertaking.If you read the official summary of this it states:"Thus begins an impossible quest that will pit them against murderous tribes, deadly assassins, fanatical monks, and the passions of their own hearts."That is a complete lie that is trying to market this as a rollicking adventure such as other stories about looking for the Holy Grail like Brown’s book or Indiana Jones & The Last Crusade.
His story begins their journey to finding the Holy Grail.Nelson DeMille is definitely a good writer.
Walking around lost in a jungle for five days is not that interesting.My biggest gripe with this novel is that it's based in war-torn Ethiopia yet there doesn't seem to be an imminent threat of danger.
Plus, the love triangle between Mercado, Purcell, and Vivian becomes frustrating and so unnecessary.Contrary to what my review may suggest I'm not giving up on Nelson DeMille.
I'm sure one day I will find the perfect DeMille novel for me.
That wasn’t a secret and it didn’t bother me – although I understand the frustration by those who read it on the kindle where the formatting skipped over the author’s note at the beginning of the book.Anyway, a lot of people criticized DeMille for THE GATE HOUSE too and I felt a lot of it was unfair – reader’s who are used to and love John Corey’s wit and sarcasm seem to have a hard time adjusting to any variation of the anti-terrorism (or the old school DeMille Cold War) themes.
It has been quite interesting, fun actually, to compare his original with his re-written version.Today's version is substantially revised, most notably by punching up the humor and sarcasm a bit.
I greatly enjoy the novels of Richard North Patterson (puhleez, not To be mixed up with the typist, James Patterson) for the same reason.The most striking distinction between the 1975 version and the 2013 version is the difference of maturity in voice, tone, and plotting.
Of course, we would expect a richer voice and more plausible plots from someone who wrote the original work when he was about 32 or 33 years old and is now nearing 70, I think.
Oh my, this was a major disappointment. Characters that you really didn't care about, riddled with inconsistencies, and the world's cheesiest ending. Mr. DeMille, are you really this desperate for cash? Did you have a pressing contract? I just don't understand this insulting slap in your loyal readers' faces. If you're a DeMille fan, skip this.
This novel is not worthy of Nelson DeMille. It was so boring I stopped Reading it - so bad it doesn't even warrant a star.
That's where an old priest named Father Armando emerges from a bombed-out prison after decades in captivity with the location of nothing less than the Holy Grail tucked in his mind.From there, staged against the backdrop of the endless Ethiopian civil war, the quest of the title begins in search of it, undertaken by a trio of intrepid journalists (well, two plus a photographer), including the hard-bitten and hard-driving Frank Purcell, who's standing in for DeMille's redoubtable John Corey this time out.
Vatican tries to steal The Holy Grail from the Copts.3* Plum Island3* The Quest1* The Charm School3* The Lions Game2* Night FallTR Wild Fire2* Spencerville
Three explorers caught up in a love triangle search for the Holy Grail in Ethiopia amidst violence. The tale takes place over many years.Kudos to the voice narrator, Scott Brick, who did a great job distinguishing various voices. OVERALL GRADE: B.
I've read a great many books by Nelson DeMille and have largely enjoyed them all.
I actually feel guilty about not enjoying the work more; DeMille is a great writer and I've recommended his other works time and time again.
But a vivid, interesting backdrop and solid "hook" in the plot are not enough to make me rate this book higher than 2 stars.The characters are described well, but just end up very flat.
Truth be told, the entire first 25% of the book was fascinating descriptions and history of the setting with little else going for it.And one aspect of those first chapters had me incredulously turning the pages just to see how it ended.
First of all, I have read all of Nelson DeMille's primary novels and I consider him the American novelist laureate.
Not since Night Fall have I seen the end of the book bail out Nelson DeMille the way it did in The Quest.
Not a chance, because unlike many others, Nelson puts the work into writing a story, and captures the look, feel, smell and touch of where he is.
The Quest just was not good enough in the composite view of the work to rank more than three stars.
It has zero thrills, zero adventure and zero plot - it seems to be an attempt at a 'Heart Of Darkness'-type journey into the soul of a group of intrepid journalists caught up in a Grail hunt, but it comes off as an extremely tiresome plod through a historic warzone with little or no ultimate outcome.
Oh, and this book also has the singularly most inaccurate blurb description on the dust jacket I have ever read - 'a break-neck adventure'??
It really isn't.Trust me - if you are after a 'break-neck adventure' linked to the Holy Grail, stick with 'The Da Vinci Code' and give 'The Quest' an almighty body-swerve.
THE QUEST Nelson DeMilleI know every blockbuster spawns multiple copycats but more to the point why do I feel I have to read them?
I do know why and it’s because when an author I admire writes a book I'm eager to continue my relationship with him.
And then I found out that this book was originally written in 1975 when I read it for the first time.
But, that won't stop me from continuing to be a loyal fan and reader.
I have been a huge Nelson DeMille fan for many years, and generally have enjoyed his books.
It seems like quite a few years since he has written a book and I was looking forward to this one.
However, I was very disappointed in this and actually have decided to stop reading it - something I rarely do with any book.
First of all, the topic has been addressed in a number of other books, and it seems to be an overdone topic at this point.
Maybe he should go back to the basics and write the way that has generally worked for him in the past.
This is the only novel you ever need to read about the quest for the Holy Grail.Told from a single point of view, the primary cast is pretty small and includes a skeptic and a young woman who cannot decide which of the men she wants to be with..and ironically, she becomes the faith leader discovering the hidden path.Mr. DeMille's descriptions of danger and sudden death are very realistic. He includes enough detail and avoids unnecessary comments to make this a very easy, breezy read,
Love DeMille, hated this. I truly feel cheated. Didn't like the characters, dialog, plot, nothing.
Nelson DeMille is known for his heart pounding thrillers and this book joins his distinguished list or novels.
However, it is another story about the hunt for the Holy Grail.
Too man to count and Mr. DeMille joins that list.I must say I have a problem with some of his character's and their sarcastic comments or off-the-cuff-remarks which kept me from finishing The Panther.
What would a quest for the Holy Grail be without the Catholic Church which sets these three adventurers on there hunt on the word of a dying priest.
Nelson DeMille reworked a book he originally published in 1975, in which the protagonists seek the holy grail in war-torn Ethiopia. Two journalists and a photographer come across a dying priest, who has been imprisoned for 40 years in a country ravaged by jungle lords and national armies. The three decide to seek the relic from the Last Supper, but have a very twisted relationship. Not as good as Raiders of the Lost Ark, not even close.
This is a review for the original, 1975 edition. I understand that a re-written, updated version is being published in 2013 -- I didn't read that book!Picked this up at a book exchange, and didn't expect much from it. I found it generally pretty lame, and forgettable.
"The Quest" is the story of that quintessential endless quest for spiritual enlightenment shared by all of us; but in this case, is made even more interesting by setting the story as a search for the historic Holy Grail within an obsidian monastery hidden deep in the jungles of Ethiopia during the civil wars of the 1970's.
Personally, the history of the region is a good reason for me to recommend it, despite the sort of weak story and self-centered characters.Quotes from the Book:"But if you believe in love, then you believe in God. There may or may not be a Holy Grail at the end of your journey, but the journey and the quest is itself an act of faith and belief.
When I saw that Nelson DeMille had a new book out, I was really interested in reading it as I enjoy his writing. I did not realize that he had written this book originally in the 1970s and had revamped this one for 2013. It would be interesting to compare the two books. In his acknowledgments he mentioned that his editor said the original book needed more sex. Actually, for me, that was the one thing I felt this book didn't need. I liked the quest portion of the book but the romance just detracted from the story.
Really disappointing.
i looked forward to another DeMille, having read and thoroughly enjoyed all of his others.
However, I really got tired of trudging through the jungles of Ethiopia and running from the bad guys.
The characters were just ok and I didn't really care who got the girl in the end.
Besides I am getting tired of the Holy Grail.
Would probably have given it a 2 star but my loyalty to DeMille wouldn't let me do it.
Maybe it is because we are of the same generation and born in Brooklyn?
Ah, come on Nelson, bring back John Corey!!
This is a reissue and update of a book written 30-35 years ago. I'm happy that I checked this out at the library rather than buying it. I didn't really like this book when I first read it in the 80's and that opinion hasn't changed. For the readers that are using this book as a beginning for DeMille's work, if you didn't like this try a few others. Some of them are excellent ( 5 stars) and others are quite good (4 stars).
In a word or two...what a waste of paper!
Spectacular read.
Ethiopia is the setting for majority of this book.
Searching for the Holy Grail is the main premise.
3 main characters all intertwined.
A mystery.
This book sucks you in right from the beginning.
I mean, come on, they are searching for the Holy Grail.
The 3 main characters are "chosen".
Are they worthy of the search?And can they survive the desire to seek out this incredible item?
Survive the General that only wants to contain them and kill them?
The ups and downs of learning more of the mystery.
It reads like a treasure map.
Just a review to inform. This book would be rated XXX in the old movie rating system. I could not finish it due to disgusting stuff, half way through. I wish books could be rated -- I hate finding out on my own what could easily be a disclaimer at the beginning for the intended audience. I hate to think that one of my grandkids would pick this up. Just gross. This author was recommended, not this book particularly -- but I dare not try anything else.
3.60
The battle for good and evil, moving away from the Islamic fundamentalist villain theme (which has been flogged to death), the reader will lap up all that DeMille has to offer at the turn of every page.Having been a long-time DeMille fan, I was curious to see if the dry wit and sarcastic nature of his characters can be found in his early work.
Filled with extensive research woven together with a collection of realistic characters, the novel provides a powerful narrative of the region's plight outside of the known extensive famine.Of particular note, while I can only speculate about DeMille's rationale for releasing this novel again, his social commentary about Ethiopia is strong and ongoing.
While there they come upon a elderly and wounded Italian priest.
He also tells of seeing the Holy Grail and being healed but the monks passed him on to a Royalist fort where he was imprisoned for 40 years before freed when the fort is overrun by the rebels.
The Priest does not survive his wound and the trio bury him in the spa garden and continue to the town where the Rebel General has his headquarters.
Eventually sent to the capitol and ten banned from the country they separate and then regroup with plans to return and search for the Grail.
The Quest is another of those books.
I thought this would be a grand tale of Indiana Jones, Demille style, proportion telling of a quest for the Holy Grail.
So we begin with a good bit of action in the Ethiopian countryside where some folks tend to meet up.
This is followed by a large portion, basically the majority of the book, where these folks meet up in Rome.
Pages 375 to 448 are the real meat of the story of the quest.The story itself is very well written and a definite departure from a lot of DeMilles action packed novels.
Nelson DeMille is without a doubt one of my favorite authors, but I don't think this book even cracks my top 10 of DeMille's books.
Although, I don't think that that is a criticism of this book as much as it is acclaim for some of his others.
My main flaw with this book was probably the characters.
I didn't find many of them too like able, and it was probably due to the love triangle, which I thought was really flawed.
I vacillate between Purcell and Gann as my favorite characters, with Purcell's problem the aforementioned love triangle problems, and Gann's problem probably being too much of a strait man.
