https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10739.The_Moviegoer
“The fact is I am quite happy in a movie,even a bad movie...What I remember is the time John Wayne killed three men with a carbine as he was falling to the dusty street in Stagecoach, and the time the kitten found Orson Wells in the doorway in the Third Man.” Binx Bolling is floating through life. He survived the Korean War and was fortunate enough to come back with a good wound, a shoulder wound, that allowed him to leave the conflict with honor. He lives in Gentilly, a middle class suburb of N
The problem is he is about to turn 30 and his family, in particular his aunt, feels he needs to start making something more of his life.
Binx hires secretaries, takes them to movies, makes love to them, and eventually they want something more.
Even though he infuses an almost dream like quality and a passivity in the face of grinding monotony in the character Binx, I did not come away with the gloomy feelings that other reviewers have felt from reading this book.
I want to read my books, spend time with my family; and yes, watch movies.
They discuss their lives and their possible marriage, and, as dawn approaches, the disease comes upon Kate again."Ohhhh," Kate groans, Kate herself now, "I'm so afraid.""I know.""What am I going to do?"You mean right now?""Yes.""First we'll go to my car.
Then we'll go home.""Is everything going to be all right?""Yes.""Tell me.
Binx knows that he is unable to give this kind of assurance, because life is not like that.
I think that what his "Everything is going to be all right" means is that things may go well, things may not go well, but Binx will face it all with Kate, no matter the difficulties of standing with her.
Jack "Binx" Bolling is 30, comes from a well off background, makes his money as a stock broker, and likes girls, and oh yes, he likes going to movies....a lot.
But Binx is not happy, he is stuck, going without direction, without purpose; problem is, he doesn't know where to go, what to do next.
I could relate to them, I think most people can.
And I think that is why this book is loved by so many.
It makes you think about why you are where you are, why you are doing what you are doing, and what you ultimately want out of life.
Shitty, shitty book with no plot & worse, no climax, whatsoever. Just...pretty mega-baffling!
I couldn't get through this book. Percy writes a detailed and interesting setting, and a meandering narrator/main character.But really, I think the same way about this as I do books like Emma-- As in, why do I care if rich idiots are sad about their affluent lifestyle that is free of any socio-economic or actual danger? Oh, poor rich white middle-aged depressed man, who makes a lot of money, is breathlessly racist and sexist, and spends all his time manuvering to get his secretaries into bed. Get a life.
The Moviegoer: Walker Percy's Novel of "If That's All There Is"Is that all there is, is that all there isIf that's all there is my friends, then let's keep dancingLet's break out the booze and have a ballIf that's all there is--Jerry Leiber & Mike Stoller If Walker Percy's The Moviegoer ever hits the screen, I'm sure Peggy Lee singing "Is That All There Is" will be on the soundtrack. And, if Binx Bolling is there to see it, I wonder if he'll recognize himself.Not in the mood for a little Cam
Strong willed Aunt Emily who has served as his guardian sends Binx off to college, sure that he has a purpose filled life ahead of him.
Other people, so I have read, treasure memorable moments in their lives: the time one climbed the Parthenon at sunrise, the summer night one met a lonely girl in Central Park and achieved with her a sweet and natural relationship, as they say in books.
He will have the studio behind the house with total privacy to pursue what she offers as a purpose filled life.Is this the end of Binx's Search?
It’s a fun exercise for someone like the Biblioracle (a.k.a. author John Warner) whose mother ran a bookstore in his youth, always ready with suggestions.
Anyway, I submitted my own list, cheating just a little by including only the ones I really liked, and waited to see what the man with the oracular gift would suggest.
In fact, I’d say the best thing about the book is trying to get a read on what exactly Binx is seeking out with his search.
Speaking of characters, there was a wealth of good ones beyond Binx and New Orleans.
Novelist Walker Percy appears in Covington's Bogue Falaya Parkhttp://www.nola.com/northshore/index....Beautiful sentiments by the sculptor - he was actually friends with Percy...https://tammanyfamily.blogspot.com/20...ORIGINAL POSTWalker Percy lived about six miles from my house, so it was obviously a joy to have read this book set in our neck of the woods.
By sheer coincidence, I'd been reading The Movie Goer the week prior to our author dial-in, and holy slabbed trees, Batman!
When The Movie Goer's Binx walks into an uptown Garden District home, of all the gorgeous and ornate furnishings, he singles out only a beautiful table to admire.
Southern Existentialism New Orleans is both intimately related to the South and yet in a real sense cut adrift not only from the South but the rest of Louisiana.... A proper enough American city and yet within the next few hours the tourist is apt to see more nuns and naked women than he ever saw before.Walker PercyI love this Percy quote because he so aptly captures the essence of this city below sea level, affectionately known as The Big Easy. Walker Percy was awarded the National Book Award
Walker Percy was awarded the National Book Award for this 1961 novel--his first novel--centered on Binx Bolling, a detached and depressive thirty-year-old stockbroker in 1960 New Orleans, and his quest for purpose and redemption, through movies and literature until, finally, he makes life-altering discoveries in life during the week of Mardi Gras.
In it, Percy explores ideas of cultural and spiritual alienation with a light lyrical tone while drawing on elements of Dante by paralleling his life to that of the Divine Comedy's narrator.Binx's aunt asks him to watch over his suicidal female cousin during the Mardi Gras season.
Binx describes his life in terms of the aesthetic, religious and ethical, in his search for meaning and spiritual redemption.
It's not that I never personally feel existential dread -- I do, far more often than I'd like -- but, for the most part, I got the reading of these types of novels out of my system as a teenager.
Christians talk about the horror of sin, but they have overlooked something.
The highest moment of a malaisian's life can be that moment when he manages to sin like a proper human (Look at us, Binx -- my vagabond friends as good as cried out to me -- we're sinning!
We're human after all!).It'd be hard to argue with Binx on that point.
While I was occasionally disappointed at Percy's hesitation to explore some issues more fully, it is this deft reticence that ultimately provides the book with such poignant and unique flair.
In the same way that Bolaño's unconsummated digressions ultimately enhance 2666's wild power, Percy's major flaw may in fact be a great asset.
Just as Nick's reliability as a narrator in The Great Gatsby is at times questionable, Binx's own truthfulness (or at least his self-perception) is occasionally suspect.
Despite the absence of any inner resolutions for the lead characters, Percy still manages to provide a modestly uplifting message via his unrelenting focus on the malaise associated with "everydayness".
Let me preface this by saying that I'm quite sure that nothing in this review will come close to equalling the great one Jeffrey Keeten did, which I am purposely not rereading until after I write this, as it will intimidate the heck out of me. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Nothing like a boring book to put a damper on reading.
I can't remember the exact day that I started this book, but it feels like forever ago.
For a 200-some page book, it felt like a 1000 page book, and just dragged on for a long time.
In the book, there's about five interesting events, six entertaining converstations, three unique ideas, and the rest, just boring ramble inside Binx's head.
The title of the book, implies that Binx sees a lot of movies, but really I think he sees maybe three or four.
I think that I'd recommend skipping the book, and going to see a movie instead.
In the running for the 1962 National Book Award -Joseph Heller for Catch 22Richard Yates for Revolutionary RoadJ.D. Salinger for Franny & ZooeySomehow, Walker Percy's The Moviegoer won.
So, I read it.I guess it kind of redeems itself towards the end, but for much of the first 100 pages or so, it was filled with sickening Southern witticisms and references to by-gone nonsense.
Too much about the "malaise" and the "genie-soul" - which means what exactly?And, what kind of grandiose shit is this?
-"This very evening, no doubt, he has had an excellent meal at Galatoire's, and the blood of his portal vein bears away a golden harvest of nutrient globules"?
Though my teacher had introduced me to him, I felt like he was my own discovery.I don't remember the first time I read this, his first novel, but I think the second time was with a group at a local bookstore in the mid-80s.
I read it this time because my daughter had been wanting to read it with me for years, ever since she didn't get a chance to take a New Orleans Lit class at the local university before graduating, and we finally found the opportunity.Every time I reread a Percy novel, I am struck by his prescience (I especially felt that way after rereading Love in the Ruins after Hurricane Katrina), or maybe it's just that nothing much has changed in the world from then to now and, like Binx, Percy was an astute observer.
Other people, so I have read, treasure memorable moments in their lives: the time one climbed the Parthenon at sunrise, the summer night one met a lonely girl in Central Park and achieved with her a sweet and natural relationship, as they say in books.
Having finished the novel, there are few clear conclusions to be drawn, other than the fact that life is worth living (probably), and that 'moviegoer' can be translated either as a 'searcher' or as a 'romantic' , someone still believing in the goodness of the people around him.
Binx Bolling.He's the most boring man aliveHe finds all he needs in a movie theater.Driving cars gives him a feeling of malaise.He carries war scars, he doesn't share.He awakes 'in the grip of everydayness' it's the enemy, with no escape.He doesn't always go to the movies, but when does he goes as a moviegoer. He is the most boring man alive.
TIME even included this among their list of Time 100 Best English-language Novels from 1923 to 2005.A life well lived yet, while reading the novel, you cannot help but empathize with Binx in his loneliness, his Holden-like angst, sense of loss, his confusion.
She is secretly following her mother played by Lorna Tolentino and she is about to find his mother's long-kept secret: of having another child by another man.Upon finding the secret, Bea, like Binx, experienced a deep sense of loss, confusion and even pain.
Bea, like Binx, also spent the rest of the movie confused and bitter.
A 29-year-old existentialist, a 25-year-old manic depressive, a 32-year-old frat boy turned lawyer, a well-meaning but interfering matriarch.
The truth of course is the exact opposite: suicide is the only thing that keeps me alive.
195"Christians talk about the horror of sin, but they have overlooked something.
They keep talking as if everyone were a great sinner, when the truth is that nowadays one is hardly up to it.
The highest moment of a malaisian's life can be that moment when he manages to sin like a proper human." ~ Binx, pg.
200A 3-turned-4 rating and happiness at discovering a new author.
I wasn't sure how much I would like this book when I started, but by the final page I loved it so much I'm going to have to put it on my re-read shelf.
This book contains a lot in it's 240 pages: family love and responsibility, class systems in the south, subtle racism, feelings of despair and elation, and the search for meaning in one's life.
There is also a lot of wisdom and AHA moments for the reader, written in elegant prose.Two of my favorite sentences:  "Life goes on and on we go.""Ours is the only civilization in history which has enshrined mediocrity as it's national ideal.
Rather, The Moviegoer shows us the need of living sacramentally in this life because any other way of life is incomplete.
Near the end of the novel as they discuss their matrimony, Kate worries all the more and “started plucking at her thumb in earnest, tearing away little shreds of flesh.” Binx takes her hand and kisses away the blood.Binx and Kate find life and hope through the little things such as work, worship and marriage.
What does Percy mean to say the modern world is full of “malaise” where men are “dead, dead, dead” and to think that matrimony, among other things, is a cure?
Is the war over yet?Jack Bolling is a soldier who comes from a long line of soldiers.
Jack served in Korea, his dad died in World War II, other relatives served in World War I, some in the Civil War. The fiercest warrior of them all is Jack’s Aunt Emily.
Sadly Jack is still fighting his war in his mind and heart even as he successfully makes money, chases women and of course prowls movie theaters.
He’s damaged and can truly relate only to other’s just as damaged such as his severely handicapped younger brother and his step cousin (his Aunt Emily’s stepdaughter) Kate.
Says Binx: "Until recent years, I read only 'fundamental' books on key subjects, such as War and Peace, the novel of novels; A Study of History, the solution of the problem of time; Schroedinger's What is Life?, Einstein's The Universe as I See It, and such.
Now I wander seriously and sit and read as a diversion." (69-70)Binx's move seems to me Heidegerrian: He rejects the present-at-hand abstracting as fundamental (even if he recognizes that it underlies the universe) for being, instead taking up the immersion in life as absorbed dealing (the ready-to-hand) which requires the clothing of culture.
Ever since finishing Walker Percy’s The Moviegoer I’ve been struggling to write some kind of review.
Apparently it is ‘characterized by “the existential attitude”, or a sense of disorientation and confusion in the face of an apparently meaningless or absurd world.’ Having been gifted, or should I say blessed (?) by a strong faith*; I struggle to understand how people can find no meaning in what they see around them.
So, am I saying/writing that as a person of faith I have no empathy for some of what Binx seems to feel/experience?
Before I read 'the Moviegoer' my only real exposure to Walker Percy was reading A Confederacy of Dunces (a novel not written by Percy, but one which he discovered, published and wrote the forward to) and through his friendship with Shelby Foote.
Anyway, fifty pages into 'the Moviegoer', I was ready to declare my undying love for Walker Percy.
'The Moviegoer' reminded me of a southern Catholic Graham Greene + F.
With Greene's Catholic ambiguity and Fitzgerald's sad, romantic tone and Gaddis' playful allusiveness Percy dances with grace, charm and style through the minefield of the modern/postmodern world.
The ending is one of the best I've ever read, and there are splendid passages here and there but Binx Bolling is just an annoying, myopic, self-obsessed, rueful little twerp...
I'll forever remember it (or rather, easily forget it) as "That book about rich white people in New Orleans who don't have any real problems." I guess it didn't help that I read this after coming off the harrowing "Native Son" and "The Grapes of Wrath", two epic journeys of oppressed peoples who wrestle with genuine life-and-death problems.
Maybe if someone in Whiteytown had had some real problems, it would have been a different story.
But as it was, I was just like, either get over it or get some real, novel-worthy problems before wasting my time.
This novel proved to be different than expected in spite of the reviews I'd read prior to picking up the book.
As Binx describes a man met on the bus returning to New Orleans, the man he has labeled "the romantic", "He is a moviegoer, though of course he does not go to movies."For me, this summed up Binx and his place in his family and home city.
At first, I wondered "why all the good words about it?" Then I found myself enjoying the story, the mood, the wonderful sense of place, even the disjointed conversations.In the end my rating is 4 stars without equivocation.
As the protagonist of The Moviegoer says, ‘the only sign is that all signs in the world make no difference.’ Not that one should look to Binx Boller as a profound philosopher, of course, for he is a plaything of the author, a character made of words, albeit one who recognises that much thought, vocalisation and action is a responsive twitch.
Those random totems are placed on the mezzanine which is like a theatre balcony, from which Kate and Binx could if they were bothered, observe the ritualised actions of the participants at the dining table below.
Raţional, am apreciat sensibilitatea lui aparte, care îl făcea să simtă alienarea celorlalţi (şi să reacţioneze la ea cu înţelegere şi compasiune), starea lor de morţi vii (fără trăiri intense şi fără idealuri), care îl făcea să se simtă speriat la culme de lehamite (apatie) şi de-a dreptul sufocat de cotidian.
Dar, la fel ca în cazul cărţii lui Salinger, am ajuns la final total neimplicată emoţional şi cu o uşoară senzaţie că am pierdut vremea citindu-l.
Mă rog, vremea nu a fost chiar pierdută, am întâlnit câteva idei interesante şi, pe alocuri, o anumită poezie.
