https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239906.Nathaniel
Janet Hall's husband Mark dies in an accident while visiting his old hometown, Prairie Bend, (where his parents live).
(Janet can't understand why Mark visited Prairie Bend, he didn't tell her he was going there, and he hasn't seen or spoken to his parents for years.) Janet meets Mark's parents (Anna and Amos) who tell her Mark owned a farm.
(Janet always wanted to live on a farm.)Janet has an eleven-year-old son, Michael.
Amos tells Michael to stay away from old Ben Findley's farm (an anti-social hermit who doesn't want to be disturbed.) But Michael keeps feeling a subconscious pull to go to Findley's farm, especially his barn.
We can relate.”I saw something out there.”In Saul’s stories, it’s the little things that kill.
It’s never very clear what exactly is going on (until, obviously, at the very end), and just when you think you finally have the truth of it some new information is revealed to set you back a step or two.
It’s sometimes scary just because you don’t want it to happen.[He], too, sensed the change in the atmosphere, and suddenly felt his skin begin to crawl.Even though it’s a slow-burner and the body count isn’t exactly sky high it does read pretty quickly.
Also, the prairie was an interesting setting.“You don’t believe me, do you?” he said quietly.
“You don’t think I saw anything.”
okay, this next part isn't my own review, but it was written on GoodReads in 2008 and i feel it deserves a wider audience:I LOVE THIS BOOK..
MAYBE THATS WHY I CAN READ BOOKS A BUNCH OF DIFFERENT TIMES....
MY MEMORY IS HORRIBLE....
that is a horrible memory PLUS dedication!
i am your fan.as for me, i was in high school when i read this, and i actually remember it pretty clearly.
this is because my high school girlfriend and i read chapters to each other in the park inbetween make-out sessions.
how creepy and romantic!
but mainly creepy.
I love John Saul, and this has got to be my absolute favorite book of his! It has lots of twists and turns that keep you guessing until the very end when the surprise ending leaves you speechless!
I read this book many years ago (early 80's), so I could not give an accurate review. I have it listed in my records as a "very good read".
This book was really good until the last few chapters. The twist at the end totally ruined it for me and turned the whole story into a garbled mess that made no sense. I really hate frustrating ending like this
I’m sure most of you don’t either.What I liked:•Mr. Saul has some serious writing chops.•The prologue managed to capture my attention and leave me with a few healthy questions.•There are a few creepy spots in this book.What I didn’t like:•It takes too long for this story to get going.•I didn’t connect with any of the characters.•Hopping from character to character within chapters was a bit tedious.•Not enough action, or action that feels too inconsequential.•The ending didn’t feel satisfying.•The plot failed to grab me.•I simply didn’t care what happened.Overall: I’d give Nathaniel, by John Saul, two out of five stars.
In this one, it is grand-parents.I suppose that my respect for Saul has fallen very gradually the more I read of him, kind of like how my taste for the cheap Ramen Noodles has declined with each time I eat them.
At first, the cheap thrills are amazing and the feelings are wonderful, but the more you read (or eat if you like that analogy better) them, you realize that too much of something can leech all of the glory out of it.
Things get old, Ramen Noodles are cheap but lose those cheap thrills rapidly like Saul's work, and, unlike most things on Earth, plots are not good to recycle.

Something about barns is just plain spooky.
It seems like the last few books that I have read have had barns in them & it has led to some very dark ocurrences.On that note, Nathaniel was one creepy book.
It is another great October read.
Many things were disturbing about the plot and very mysterious.
I really despised Amos and I hated him when he hurt Shadow.
I can't stand to read stuff like that when it comes to animals.
I did enjoy the surprise that came at the end with everything coming together.
There was not a dull bore moment in this book.
Nathaniel A very creepy story that blends elements of a horrendous family legacy with ESP, madness and gore set in a backwards midwestern town. This is the second John Saul book I've read and it was much better than the first. It has a lot of elements that felt like influence from Stephen King. I defintately liked the book and would recommend it.
This was the second book by John Saul I read and it's one of my favorites. The atmosphere is so spooky and Amos Hall... brrrI was living at Browngate, 8th grade so 1986 or so
I read this when I was 12 and it enthralled me. Characters are believable, well-written and keep you engaged through the story. Everyone is a mystery in this book.
Truth be told, I adore all of John Saul's books but this one seems to change every time I read it.
And when Michael Hall comes to the sleepy town with his mother in order to attend the funeral for his dad, he learns of a family he never knew he had.
One night, Amos Hall tells the story of Nathaniel and his mother Abby who lived out on the plains.
There is, however, something beyond creepy about scary stories that involve children, which is Saul's M.O.That said, watching what we think may be young Michael Hall's slow decent into madness is terrifying in it's own way, even with a boy written without much substance.
In this book a woman finds out her husband secretly went and visited his home town.
The way she finds out is that when he goes there he dies while he is there (don't worry that is not a spoiler, its the whole premise for her to go to this small town).
Since she has no where to go, she decides the best thing for she and her son is to settle down in the small town.
A legend by the name of Nathaniel surrounds the town and scares all the generations living there.
There are personal mysteries to be solved as well as whether this Nathaniel really exists and why he haunts the small town.
Nathaniel managed to be even better than John Saul’s The Unwanted!
Nathaniel is filled with great characters and creepy plot lines.After reading The Unwanted and Nathaniel, John Saul has become my third favorite author.
For someone who’s pretty picky about what they read, I must say that I love the way he writes.
His writing style is amazing and he manages to make each book different.
While there are some similarities between the books in the way that he writes them, I don’t feel that Nathaniel sounded too similar to The Unwanted when I read it.
I listened to Nathaniel on abridged audio.
I of course, prefer unabridged audio but I knew I'd never actually get through the book and this is the only audio version available.
I often have problems with Saul's endings, but it should be noted I was listening to abridged version and may have missed something.
However, on my initial reading in the 1990's I also remember not being happy with the ending.Nathaniel was chosen as the June 2011 Group Read in the John Saul LitGroup.
Feel free to join our discussions anytime - we're always reading a John Saul book!
Ok, so this may not be the literary equivalent of a 5-star novel but it was one of the most fun ghost stories I've read in a very long time. (I actually listened to it on cd, but whatever.) The book was originally published in 1984 and is very well-known and well-loved. I'd call it a "classic" as in classic ghost story. I really enjoyed it.
This was the second book i ever read. I was really young when i did. I took it from my mother's books and it scared me. Ever since i read this i've been into reading ghost stories. I read it again last year to see if it had the same effects and it still made the hair at the back of my neck stand up.
Truly a great book! It's creepy, in the original sense of the word. You don't want to read this one alone at night. Make sure you have A LOT of time to read this one, because you will want to finish it in one sitting. Trust me, you won't be able to put it down. It will have you in it's grip right up to the twist at the end!
John Saul's themes of young people in peril continue to stress me out. Which is to say that his work is vivid and visceral, and Nathaniel is no exception. Both ghostly and ghastly, this saga thrilled, terrorized, and delighted me.
soooo creepy... will make you sleep with the lights on for a while
This is the first of his books I have read.
There are others I will tackle but I hope they are not as under whelming as this one.I didn't hate this book but it didn't leave a good impression on me.
If there is a sequel to this book I don't want to read it.
I thought the character of Nathaniel could have been built up alot more.
At times I thought he was Michael's age but if you follow the timeline then he would have been in his 20's.
Either I totally missed that part in the book or it was never mentioned.Anyways, I would not recommend.
This was an good book for what it was which was kind of a horror/mystery novel. It did not blow me away but it did keep me entertained the whole way through. It played with pretty common themes of isolation, restricting community, loss and helplessness. While it was a bit light on dealing with the primary protagonist (who I would say was the boy) I appreciated the balance it found when dealing with the themes when it came to the mother and some of the other characters. It is a strong statement in abuse disguised as a supernatural horror novel.
I’ve read this book no less than 4 times, the last was so long ago I can’t remember. Every time I’ve read it I’ve always ended up being thoroughly confused and befuddled by the end. I’d guess it’s been somewhere close to 20 yrs since last read so maybe now at my advanced age I’ll actually be understand what in the heck actually happens. No matter. I’ll love this book regardless.
If this book were a food, it'd be dollar store instant potato flakes.A poor "The Shining" wanna-be. It passed the time ok, but I'd have much rather put my efforts into something more worthwhile.
Read in 1992
As always, John Saul wrote beautifully. However, I felt let down by the plot as I had hoped for something like The Unloved or Suffer the Children.
This was a lot different from what I was expecting. It was interesting and creepy, it just didn't go in the direction I thought it would.
Woooah what a freaking twist!!!!
