https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15815333-the-interestings
The friends deal with successes and failure, various love affairs, and one scandal, which is the central plot point of the novel (yet is never discussed or resolved in any meaningful way).
Jules, the central character, is supposed to be the funny one in the group, for example, but nothing she says is actually funny.
The more minor interesting characters, like Jonah or Cathy, aren't developed at all.
Jonah is beautiful (as is his partner, Robert Takahashi, who is infuriatingly referred to by his full name nearly every time he's mentioned as if the fact that he's Japanese-American somehow makes Wolitzer cool and multi-cultural).
A group of adolescents—little more than children, really—meet at a camp where kids explore their creativity. Ethan, Jules, Cathy, Goodman, Ash: All believe they are meant for great things. This assumption of huge talent where there may be little or none lies at the heart of Wolitzer’s novel, which sweeps across a span of decades. There’s sentiment here, full and wholehearted, but little sentimentality. Like The Corrections, The Interestings addresses one of fiction’s great themes: how we make peace with our own shortcomings and make the best of ordinary lives.
The Interestings are about as interesting as my butt dimple. The most exciting moment came when I rushed to my dictionary to check on the correct plural form for clitoris. I thought it might be 'clitori'. Or even 'clitorae'. But clitorises is the accepted form. I much prefer the correct Greek plural provided by my dictionary -- 'clitorides'. It's a word that deserves capitalization: Clitorides, Greek goddess of female pleasure.
Now that I’m marooned in middle age for a spell, I’ve been thinking an awful lot about the life in the years ahead of and behind me.
This quest for fulfillment and self-actualization is the premise of Meg Wolitzer’s sprawling, cracking good novel The Interestings.In the summer of ’74, Julie Jacobson, a middle class average achiever from a non-descript upstate New York town, earns a spot at an exclusive arts camp in New England.
She became the character I most wanted to get stuck in the middle of a book with.
I’ve walked away from traditional success a few times, always choosing the interesting over expected.
There's a point in which one of the characters - a highly successful animator Ethan - wonders which Disney character would the protagonist Jules be and concludes that Disney doesn't make princesses like her.
He's there, but he's a token absorbing the goodness of his lovely friends Ethan, Ash and Jules.
We don't see him much either, possibly because he's interesting and he doesn't have the hots for Jules.
Smug bitch Jules rejects him because he's ugly, and patronizingly thinks that one day he would find someone the equal of him in physicality.
We engage more and more as time passes and the characters grow.Ambition, desire, success, jealousy, and envy shape the mortal coils of friendship, love, and loyalty, and figure importantly in the story, as do coming to terms with strengths and limitations.
As observers, we get a ground view, and occasionally a bird’s eye view of events, but we inhabit the narrative as if we are inside the story.
It's going to come out all wrong.
What happens to talent over time?
What happens to teenage friendships over time?
This novel will fill your heart to the brim and break it like a twig all at the same time.I will echo another Goodreads friend and say that it is simply perfect.
I will echo another Goodreads friend who said that it felt like a mix between "Freedom" and "The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay" but even better.
It is.I think the New York Times was wrong: this is probably the best book that I will read all year.
I was sucked in by the opening chapters, a group of friends, a summer camp much like my own, only half a generation older than me.
And I was also interested in Wolitzer's themes of adult life.
(Wolitzer name checks the Jennifer Levin murder - which happened a full ten years later - where the victim was blamed for getting herself dead (slut, she liked it rough, etc.) without accounting for what that means for her central drama).
I actually am a fan of character-driven novels and I'm even okay with books in which not a lot happens, but then the characters are likeable or quirky or actually interesting and none of these were.
At the end of the book I realized that this was somewhat of a point that Wolitzer was trying to make, that (view spoiler)[the "specialness," the "interestingness" of the characters was only there for the characters themselves, because they were the centers of their own lives (hide spoiler)].
And while this is an interesting thought - one upon which a novel could be built - it certainly doesn't merit 468 pages.
For the first two-thirds of this book, I often thought, "Barf! What's so interesting about these self-proclaimed 'interestings'?" This wasn't helped by the audiobook reader doing a good job whenever there was dialog, but rushing dully through the prose.Yeah! The fundamentally good writing kept me going -- and I was rewarded! Not one to give away spoilers, I'll only say that when the story got to a conversation covering my exact question, the author answered it marvelously! The rest of the book made the whole of it worthwhile.
Here's what occurs to the separate & disparate destinies (that don't always simply intertwine) of the Interestings.
Here, great events occur to people who have high expectations of themselves and their lives.
And for the reader, only to finish the book to reach that love-it-or-hate-it final sentence, so innately perfect, well, it's a real treat.This is the type of novel that you & I both go very deeply gaga over.
The type that hits the spot; that feels like a trip (& a return back from it) that sort of feeds the inner reader's salivating soul.
Then the second part comes and you still wait for something to happen.
Actually, I think she just wanted to let us know that East Coast kids who went to long summer camps in the mountains got married, had kids, had little life dramas, and all the insecurities and career choices that everyone else has.
They give you the same experience, only they'll make you laugh, too.Now, if you are in your twenties and want to see what your life will be like in 30 years, go ahead and read this book.
Characters LITERALLY say, over and over again, that his potential is extinguished.Unlike other times in this book when I feel like Wolitzer is kind of acknowledging her asshole characters (winking at the camera, let's say) this is played completely straight and it is disgusting and very offensive to me.
I like that the book made me feel this way.Tl;dr - What else can I say?
This is a great book - both men and women came up to me to praise it when they saw me reading it everywhere.One of the few books that lives up to its reputation, Wolitzer deserves some kind of award for this.
And let everyone who meets us fall down dead in our path from just how fucking interesting we are."This is an epic novel that covers several decades in the lives of a group of friends.
The friends met in 1974 at a summer camp for the arts, and the book mostly focuses on the perspective of Jules Jacobson, a wannabe actress who uses comedy to ingratiate herself with the Interestings, which also include serious actress Ash, illustrator Ethan, musician Jonah, dancer Cathy, and Goodman, who lacks talent but makes up for it in arrogance.
The book jumps around in time a bit, sometimes flashing back to someone's childhood, sometimes jumping ahead a decade.
I was tempted to read this book by the glowing reviews and it proved to me that the reviewers are not ALWAYS wrong.
In short, people are realizing that Wolitzer is a first-rate novelist.The genius of the novel is that is shows such different characters, who are well-developed, as they grow and change against the backdrop of history but more importantly against the backdrop of the Great Themes of Human Life.
The last review I submitted here was about a popular, well-reviewed book (The Uninvited Guests) that I know I won't remember.
She sat down to write her review of The Interestings.
We'll start with the main character, Julie, who became Jules in camp that summer.
This was because Jules was funny and charming, as the author keeps telling us.
It's always a risk to have a character whom you want to be funny and charming, she thought.
You have to be sufficiently funny and charming yourself to create a character whose humor and appeal are believable.
But what if you weren't so smart yourself?Similarly, she thought, the author kept telling the reader how great that camp experience was.
This book was so touching and beautiful and true and it went straight to my heart.
I can see why some people would have some problems with this book because it is quite slow-going and nothing big happens.
I've rarely read books with this amazing set of characters that you felt for and completely understood.
All of the book consisted of these narratives within narratives and I was in awe.
Definitely check out this book and READ IT if you think it sounds interesting (pun intended ;-) ).
I am still in awe and breathless after this most wonderful, fictional journey this book took me on.
Major book hangover after finishing this one.
I feel like the unseen member of this group of characters, the author has hypnotized me with her way with words.
You simply must read this novel for yourself.This latest novel by Meg Wolitzer could easily become my reading yardstick.
Each character is lovingly crafted; Meg Wolitzer knows what she is doing and she does it well.
Short stories want to grow up to be this novel, other fictions glare in uneasy jealousy and epics long to be edited down to this 468 page word perfect novel.
Just now, I am sorely tempted to start the book all over again.
It also helps to have rich parents.All of those things come up in The Interestings, but the novel also touches on how success and trauma change people, how love can be deeper between friends than lovers, how families become like fortresses, and how our infatuations can stay with us until we’re eventually confronted with brutal reality.
Wolitzer’s ingenious narrative can catapult us decades forward, and then go back, so the mystery in the book isn’t “What happens to these people?” but “How did these things happen?” and “Why?” There is an event that severs the group early on, leaving many questions unanswered, but Wolitzer comes back to it eventually, very gracefully.
I really honestly enjoyed this book.
It is super engrossing and almost felt like watching a movie and seeing how things all played out.
I loved the flawed characters and how their decisions felt real, I loved how the story jumped around in different time periods, and I really liked the story overall.
These characters felt like people you might know or already know, even though their lives are so different from yours.Overall pretty great if you enjoy literary fiction!
The author did different voices for the characters that actually seemed real and not cheesy and weird.
Maybe it's because I read so much young-adult fiction, but it felt like a book about growing up--but set when the real growing up begins.
Unlike YA books where the growing up ends at age 16, Wolitzer begins there.
And, through Wolitzer's deft storytelling we realize it is both--and neither.I LOVED the relationships-the friendships, the romances, the family structures.
Wolitzer pushes against our expectations and there were several moments where I held the book closer as if to say to a good friend: "You can't be serious.
Wolitzer bridges so much seemingly effortlessly--points of view, time periods, and the boundaries of family and friendship.
Absolutely wonderful.
Maybe not the most technically brilliant book I've ever read, it had that certain quality that comes along very rarely in reading that completely sweeps you off your feet.
I fell in love with the characters because that is what Wolitzer does best in her writing.
If you want real, raw characters who you can rejoice or cry with, The Interestings is the book for you.
I won't soon forget how each and every one of these characters, their lives, and their talents intertwined with one another and with me as I read about it all.
There's not much at stake for any of Wolitzer's characters--all of whom are white, relatively privileged, and fail to change or develop over the course of nearly 500 pages.
After 300 pages in, I was faced with the saddening truth that I had invested a lot in characters who were neither likeable, nor very interesting.
Wolitzer is so insistant that Jules is "funny," and "easy to talk to," but she fails to create any scenes which show the reader as much.
The premise of the book is one that is quite familiar: a group of young people develop a strong bond while attending camp together, and the story follows the evolution of their lives and relationships into adulthood.
For example, the character who is really at the center of the story is presented to us as exceptionally empathic, someone others love to be around and who reflects something warm and powerful back to them, but we never see it happen.
She seems to attach herself to her "best friend" simply because she loves to be around rich people (coming from very limited means herself), but I don't think that was what the author intended.
Meg Wolitzer is a good writer and the first 100 pages vividly captures the angst-y itch of being adolescent and artistic, but as the plot progresses and the characters continue to act like their selfish and immature selves well into middle age, I ultimately lost interest in them.
It doesn't help that Wolitzer often uses the third-person omniscient voice so that you're not quite sure whether she is trying to make a generic or specific point, evoking a time in the present or future.In addition, some of the plot turns were so tangential and irrelevant that it almost seemed like Wolitzer was just working off of a list of social themes and major events for each decade (e.g., Reverend Moon and his religious cult for the 1980s, the World Wide Web for the 1990s, hedge funds in the millenium, etc.)
This totally annoyed me, because it's fantastic and it's the book I wanted to write next if I was good enough to write it, which I'm probably not. It would be condescending and untrue to say of Meg Wolitzer that her work just keeps getting better, because it's always good. This one especially moved me, maybe because I saw myself in all its characters. And I like a longish book that pisses you off because it ends and now you've read it and what the fuck are you supposed to do now?
The fact that she isn't blind to the absurdity of her envy of her friends was redeeming for me in a way.Liked:The author touched on a lot of meaningful themes that resonated with me.
Just because it's not something you necessarily dream about being at a young age doesn't mean it's not important, but Jules can't see that.I love the conversation between Jonah and Ethan towards the end of the book where Jonah, who was a talented musician in his childhood, tells Ethan the secret about why he didn't pursue a career in music.Ethan replies, "I don't want to sound insensitive here, but you could still do some music anyway, right?" "What do you mean?""Well, couldn't you just play?""Just play?""On your own, or with friends.
Meg Wolitzer captures the intricate movements of life in a way that both young and old can relate to.“...You want to know whether the problems that you teenagers feel—will they follow you over the rest of your lives?
But what they all have in common is a mesmerized fascination towards that summer in art camp, where they felt the endless promise of their future, ensured by talent, broadened by youth.
But in the end, you realize that life is not about a dream.
The most effusive 5 star rating i have given in a while...this is another "book coma" one for me, where i am gonna have to take a few days off from reading because I'm going to be pissed off at any book that isn't this book for some time.
The writing sucked me in immediatly, and even though i read fiction like it's my job...and thankfully it kind of is...that doesn't happen very often.
So far, and by far, my favorite book of 2013.
Num campo de férias fomentador de talentos, conhecemos Os Interessantes, um grupo de adolescentes cheios de potencial: os irmãos Wolf, Goodman e Ash, de família endinheirada, ele um belo fanfarrão, ela delicada e artística; Jonah, o rapaz introvertido filho de uma cantora folk conhecida; o pouco atraente Ethan Figman, o mais talentoso do grupo; Cathy, a dançarina sensual e desenvolta; a engraçada Jules Jacobson, à primeira vista a menos interessante e também a personagem principal.
A Amazon tinha planos para adaptar o livro e fazer uma série de televisão, existe até um episódio piloto, mas a recepção não deve ter sido a esperada, porque não houve seguimento.
