https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71148.The_Cheese_and_the_Worms
The book offers a glimpse into an alternative (and generally unheard from) world-view that is full of so much imagination on the part of the miller that it should put many a fiction writer to shame.That really is its strength and virtue, to be a reminder that the masses of people that now we label as Lutheran, Catholic or Anabaptist were a mess of individuals.
They offer as much of a clue as what people actually believed as the writings of a Luther or Zwingli and an insight with its images of mouldy cheese and God as master builder with sub-contracted angels creating the world into just how divergent the reception of ideas could be.
L’imputato è un comune mugnaio, che non ha ucciso nessuno, ma reinterpretando e adeguando le teorie cristiane inculcategli, rielabora una cosmogonia originale, innovativa, e alla portata di tutti: tutto ebbe origine dal formaggio e i vermi.Ai giorni nostri, potrebbe essere definito un insegnante bislacco e dalla mentalità molto aperta.
Dalla lista di vip invitati sullo yacht di rappresentanza di Briatore, o dalle considerazioni quotidiane dell’anonimo Pinco Pallino?E quindi, tra leggere le teorie inquisitorie dei giudici del ‘500, che rappresentavano la cultura dominante, e i pensieri del Menocchio, che rappresentava la cultura subalterna, la tradizione orale e le credenze pagane, da chi pensate di poter ricevere più informazioni veritiere su come “girava il mondo” cinquecento anni fa?
As a miller and a literate man, Menocchio had a greater exposure to people and ideas than the average peasant-farmer, and apparently also a keen intellect which he used to ponder the world, and the Catholic church’s teachings.
Ginzberg uses his story to attempt to reveal what ideas were floating around in the general peasant population concerning the reformation and Catholic and protestant doctrine.
Ginzberg also patents what has become the downfall of microhistories by writing up to chapter 61 on just Menocchio, and then in the next to last chapter attempting to explain (unconvincingly) how this single man illustrates a sampling of the greater picture.
Sıradan insanların yaşayışlarına yer olmayan tarih anlatımının çok uzağında, ince ince işlenmiş bir mikro tarih çalışması. Ortaçağ engizisyonunun gölgesinde yaşayıp eline geçen kitapları okuyan, okudukça ufku aydınlanan bir değirmenci ve dönemin sosyolojik yapısı ezber bozan cinsten.
Of the eleven books Menocchio certainly read, six of them were loaned to him from friends (certainly not from his priest), which seems to indicate the existence of “a network of readers”; as Ginzburg observes, ““it’s astonishing that so much reading went on in this small town in the hills." Another tack of Ginzburg’s, less convincing than the first, is to search for similarities between Menocchio’s heresies and those of another Italian miller from a generation prior, known as Pighino “the fat." While such similarities do exist—e.g. the emphasis of both heretics on the simplicity of the Gospel, their disdain for Church corruption and for the sacraments—these similarities are as easily explained as semi-learned peasant distortions of Luther as they are a springing forth from an oral underground.
This is an insightful book for all of us who assume European peasants were illiterate, uneducated, non-thinking folk.
Our hero, the miller Menocchio, could read and write, owned a few books, borrowed a few more, had read the Decameron and dipped into the Koran, and combined the ideas he got from books with the oral tradition of 16th century rural Friuli to form his own slightly odd, very creative, para-Catholic religious notions.
The reason this book gets assigned in history courses is because of its historiographic interest, the overlap between social history and the history of ideas.
(Omg spoiler alert, I know.) What Ginzburg is doing (and, then, his translators, the Tedeschis) is taking the handful of sources we have that document Menocchio's trials and filling in the blanks to create a coherent story.
So it's not straight-up history, but then it's not fiction, either, because we really do have all of these documents left behind (evidenced in the endnotes, which you can skip reading and still understand what's going on--he wrote it that way, actually, and has no numbers anywhere, which took some getting used to).What comes out of this is an interesting story about a crazy miller who didn't know when to shut up, so I recommend it for that.
Sure, he was uncommonly literate, and yes it was somewhat interesting to see how his reading manifested itself into his belief system (thus justifying fears that when peasants get a hold of books they are going to come to their own conclusions regarding their contents, rather than those the clergy so dogmatically thrust upon them).
However, Ginzburg is careful to not blame books entirely for Menocchio's heresy.
Ginzburg talks a bit about this in the preface, and has some interesting and reasoned insights -- he never claims Menocchio's story is representative, merely that it represents something we haven't heard before.
this guy goes on for 150+ pages about ALL the possible explanations for this random peasant thinking that the world was formed from chaos like the way cheese coagulates.
then he's like the collective unconscious is an "unacceptable" explanation like wtf this whole book is dumb and this guy wasted his time writing it and the translators wasted their time translating it.
it's literally written like "well the miller may have gotten his ideas from THIS SMALL, FAR OFF CHRISTIAN EXTREMIST GROUP because their thoughts line up so well!!
but actually it's completely IMPOSSIBLE FOR HIM TO HAVE EVER BEEN IN CONTACT WITH THEM DURING THIS ERA" like seriously SHUT UP u dragged it
Ginzburg uses the records of his trial to examine his personal theology and cosmology, and to examine to what extent we can recover a pre-modern "popular culture." I thought it was a more sophisticated attempt at a microhistory than The Return of Martin Guerre; Ginzburg approaches his sources with more subtlety and with more awareness of the dangers of pre-conceived notions.
I particularly appreciated how Ginzburg's critical awareness of the sources contrasted with Menocchio's own sometimes wilful misreadings of the texts he came into contact with.
Replace the theology department with 'Cheese and Worms' studies.
Il nome mi era familiare perché, tutto sommato, vivo ad una quindicina di chilometri da Montereale; ma non avevo la minima idea di cosa avesse combinato per essere ricordato a cinquecento anni di distanza.Fasulo ha cominciato il suo racconto citando un articolo di The New Yorker, questo in cui l'autore citava proprio il Menocchio per il fatto che era finito sul rogo a causa delle sue credenze religiose.
Difatti, Ginzburg dà per scontato che il lettore del suo libro sappia non solo il francese (e più o meno lì ci siamo), ma anche il latino e l'italiano del Cinquecento e tutto ciò che sta tra i due.
The second level of this book is Ginzburg's quest to reconstruct how Menocchio came to his bizarre cosmology, which at various points seem to correspond to other movements—Lutheranism, Venetian Anabaptism, Socinianism, radical humanism, and even Hinduism, shamanism, and ancient Greek philosophy—but in its entirety cannot be identified with any of them.
Yet even Ginzburg is unable to sketch the contents of this oral culture in any detail.The Cheese and the Worms is ultimately a demonstration of our own limitations when we attempt to reconstruct the views of marginally-literate dissidents from previous centuries.
The fact that Mennochio, our miller, had access to books, was able to read and write (very unusual for a rural peasant) coupled with an inquisitive mind could produce someone who questioned the established views.
The fact that the mills where, by necessity, on the edges of town meant they could be used as a rendezvous location for anti-establishment types and that the profession of the miller was often disliked by the rest of the peasantry similar to how people today talk disparagingly of the used care salesman.Ginsburg culled the ancient records of Mennochio's two trials and presented his finds in a compelling and easy read narrative.
* Dialogue: Here we see his ideas on the growing perfection of God and the creation of man.* Mythical Cheese and Real Cheese: Cheese and the worms were an explanatory analogy for him.* The Monopoly over Knowledge: We see victory of written culture over oral culture as Menocchio uses text to support his convictions.* The Words of the Fioretto: This gave Menocchio the linguistic and conceptual tools to express his views of the world* The Function of Metaphors: Menocchio usually accepted them as literal.* “Master, Steward, Worker”: God is a father and master who delegates wearisome tasks to his stewards* An Hypothesis: Why was Menocchio’s testimony different in the streets than for the inquisitor?
3.5 stars
Ok, I'm leaving the rating at 3,5 stars. I really enjoyed this book, the first half of it especially. We had Mijail Bajtin and Rabelais, the juxtaposition between popular culture and high-dominant culture. The only reasonable explanation, in my opinion, is that Menocchio was: either from the future a la Outlander or, he was Socrates resuscitated. Who knows? I don't. But if I ever have a dog I'm naming him Menocchio, I bet he'll be a pain in the ass, judging everything I say. Or perhaps I'll name a cat after him, suits them better.
a 'nature' whose causal position in the story of creation is prior to God himself.What makes Ginzburg's history so interesting is the reciprocity between the individual (in this case, Menocchio), their class (in this case, his being a miller), their locality, (Friuli, in Italy), and grander narratives in Europe during the Sixteenth Century (Printing, the Reformation, Counter Reformation, Anabaptism, the Inquisition, &c.).
In such a way, within the study of history Ginzburg wishes to, among other things, discard such crude yet gospel figurations as 'high culture', 'popular culture', and even a sweeping and all encompassing notion of 'dominant culture'.Again, in Menocchio we have a unique case of a literate peasant.
And when reading the premises of the book (a world coagulating like cheese, and God and the Angels being worms), as well as the first chapters, I was expecting Menocchio to come out like some of our well loved but often mocked village originals, loudly proclaiming surprising theories.
Beyond Menocchio, Ginzburg is able to give inklings about the early Renaissance culture ; his claim that Menocchio has used an unspoken "popular tradution" as a cradle for his idea makes me feel skeptical, for he was most probably not from the poorer, popular citizens of Montereale (he knew how to read, had travelled) and I saw more in Menocchio an example of how the spread of books helped forge one man's opinion.
As a miller in an isolated village in Italy (Montereale), a literate peasant explores the elements of Christianity with an unwittingly pantheistic bend.
What this demonstrates is that the peasant culture within Montereale saw this man (named Menocchio) as a harmless thinker, breaching subjects which were frightening (because of the wrath of the Catholic Church) yet intriguing.
His approach appears unbiased as he explores not only the perspective of Menocchio but also that of his inquisitors (who fell under indescribable pressure from their superiors in the Catholic hierarchy).Overall, the book was enjoyable.
I did learn a few things – like the fact that, apparently, a person interrogated by the Inquisition could retain legal counsel and might even have a chance of getting off easy – but the few facts that held any interest were not worth the cost of reading the rest of the book.
I am sure that part of the problem was that it (the book) was translated from Italian to English (I think).
If you are interested in 16th century Italian legal issues regarding the Catholic Church and heresy then this book is for you, but do not expect a Barbara Tuchman product.

I've never had the pleasure of reading about such a well-documented life of any regular person that had lived before the 1800s before, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
There is something beautifully egalitarian about the very idea of such an approach, but what makes the book truly fascinating is Ginzburg's ability to paint an image of the wider early Modern peasant society based on this story of a single person.
I highly recommend it to anyone interested in either the early modern history of Europe or theology.
Facinating book, but Ginzburg over-reaches. There are many reasons why Menocchio may believe what he seems to believe. He may not have actually read the books he says he did. He may not have understood what he was reading very well due to limited literacy or not being able to read the dialect his books were in. All these are more likely than Menocchio tapping into a primeval Indo-European peasant tradition of pantheism untouched by Roman or Christian religion. A classic but ultimately a failed excercise.
This is one of those books that gets talked up by history professors, etc, but also comes in for some criticism of the academic sort that I just don’t care about. I liked it all right. The subject matter – and the subject himself (Domenico Scandella, a miller who was burned at the stake as a heretic in the 16th century) is fascinating. But there’s a relative dearth of information on the trial and the man, and Ginzburg gets to repeating himself a lot. For a more compelling historical biography of the era, see Joel F. Harrington's The Faithful Executioner.
What an incredible book! Really one of the best books I've read in grad school so far, or at least the one I've had the most enthusiastic response to. The meta-argument of this book -- that an unremarkable individual can be studied as a microcosm of the community they lived in -- is central to my job and the museum education program that I run. So frankly it was very inspiring to read such a groundbreaking model!
Genuinely deserving of the hype, Ginzburg uses unearthed Inquisition records, made after the Lutheran rebellion, to investigate the unique heresies of a simple miller.Taking his time, Ginzburg unearths elements of a peasant oral culture that is largely unrecorded except in Inquisition records. A great book all around, and highly recommended.
A really fascinating book, and I'd guess that would still be true even if you're not usually a big history reader. There are certainly pros and cons to a microhistory like this, but in any case it's a great opportunity to get little glimpses of a non-noble (or at least mostly non-noble) perspective. Menocchio is a wonderful guy to read about, alternately audacious and very sad.
I absolutely love the idea of giving voice to the voiceless, illuminating peasant culture, and "extend[ing] the historic concept of the 'individual' in the direction of the lower classes." But the subject that Ginzburg chose, the singular Mennochio, really doesn't have enough evidence about his life to back up all this extrapolation. That makes it all just seem like tenuous speculation. Bummer.
Id pair this with "The Faithful Executioner" for the reader who's interested in seeing how carefree life was for the peasantry during and after the renaissance.
