https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1232231.Hollow_Tree_House
The Hollow Tree House by Enid Blyton. Illustrated by Elizabeth Wall. Lutterworth Press, London. 5th Impression, 1954. Another great Enid Blyton story! Adventure about sibling orphans Peter and Susan and their best friend, Angela and how they set up home in a tree in the woods—complete with mischievous spaniel dog. It is a great pastime to read another of Blyton’s enjoyable books. Highly recommend for any age. Thanks to archive.org for providing this copy.
One of my favourite Enid Blyton books. I have read it many times now, and it just never gets old. I just want a hollow tree house for my very own to live in! :)
I was a voracious reader as a child having entire series of "The Baby Sitter's Club", "Sweet Valley Kids", and "Sweet Valley High School", but nothing sparked my imagination like Enid Blyton.
I would recommend her to anyone and everyone who liked reading and asked what I was reading.
The way her short stories sparked my imagination impacted me more than I let on.
They were parables like Disney animated movies in printed words and I would get lost in them for hours until my mother would call me for dinner.
I would put Enid Blyton to the level of Roald Dahl and Dr. Suess.
The riddle of the hollow tree is an another masterpiece by enid blyton.It undoubtedly lays emphasis on the moral values instilled in children to the world a better place for themselves and those around them .All of enid buttons children display immense sensibility and blyton never misses this speciality.However the thing that makes this book stand out is its intriguing storyline.With unforeseeable turns this books keeps readers in the storyuniverse till the very end.
I think it is a very adventurous story. If I had a tree house I would have run from my house and lived in the tree house . I love this story very~very~very much but I hate Aunt Margaret.
Agora, mais de quarenta anos depois, voltei a pegar num deles: A Casa da Árvore Oca.A Casa da Árvore Oca, da autoria de Enid Blyton, conta-nos a história de Pedro e Susana, dois irmãos que ficaram órfãos e foram viver com os tios, um casal pobre em dinheiro e em afetos, principalmente a Tia Margarida, amarga, má e maldizente, que nunca quis os sobrinhos e os trata como se fossem um empecilho.
Os dois irmãos tudo fazem para lhe cair nas boas graças – são educados, trabalhadores e honestos – mas vivem permanentemente com receio das represálias e dos castigos da tia.Quando têm tempo livre, Pedro e Susana encontram-se com a melhor amiga, Ângela, e o seu cãozinho e vão brincar para a floresta.
Considering its brevity, Blyton fits in a great deal more character development than you'd expect with sweet protagonists Peter and Susan, trapped by the death of their mother in a home with their spineless Uncle Charlie and his harridan of a wife Aunt Margaret.
Angela too, their sunshiny, privileged but unspoiled friend and her dog Barker feature just as prominently.
The story is simple and timeless, a pure childhood fantasy, as the three friends discover a hollow tree in the woods and set up house...
until it very literally becomes home for Peter and Susan when their own disintegrates around them.
Buku ini salah satu buku favorite masa kecil aku dulu.
Melihat buku ini jadi teringat dulu suka menghayal gara2 baca buku ini.
Enak kali ya kalau punya rumah pohon..
Tidur dan makan di dalam pohon.
Tapi yang kebayang malah rumah pohon yang kaya di film2 itu.
Kalau dicerita inikan, Peter ama Susan tgl di dalam pohon raksasa yang ditengahnya itu bolong, jadi ada ruangannya gt.
Jadi pengen punya bukunya.
Tapi msh ada yang jual gak ya?
Moga Gramed bakal cetak ulang ni buku suatu saat, jangan cuma seri Lima Sekawan doang yg dicetak ulang mulu, sampe brapa versi ya?
Uda 3 atw 4 versi malah kalo ga salah..
Reading this book is very nostalgic for me. I always love Enid Blyton's family series (I'd love to collect the new English version, they're so cute!!!). Even though some parts of this book feel a bit awkward and too preachy now that I read it as an adult, I still like the story as a whole, especially the descriptions about the tree house, the food, the picnic and the friendships. Warm and nice..
ohhh... how lovely this booki read it when i was a child. when i read it i always imagine i was one of them. living inside the tree... eating, hiding, laughing.anyway i always remember this story, i read it over and over until i remember, because i like this story. but to bad i lost this book when i grow up.
I loved this book when I was little. Not as much as the Secret series, which starts off with the same basic story, but the idea of living in a tree always appealed. Now it's one of the books I read in the bath to stop my mind from racing when I'm trying to relax but am too frazzled to read something written for my age group.
Ini buku Enid Blyton pertama yang saya baca dan saya langsung jatuh cinta dengan buku-buku lainnya.Banyak makna persahabatan dan keberanian yang saya dapat dari buku ini dan tentu saja petualangan yang tidak kalah mengagumkan.Pergi ke hutan di tengah malam, dan tinggal di dalam pohon Oak sungguh sangat mendebarkan dan menyenangkan pada saat yang bersamaan :)
This was a wonderful book and I seriously didn't want to stop reading it! There is a huge difference between Enid Blyton's writings and others'! The best thing about the riddle of the hollow tree was its ending.....SPECTACULAR BOOK
its too good book its really intersting
nice for young readers
awesome cool super
Satu hal yang masih aku ingat tentang buku ini... aku jadi pengen punya rumah pohooon... kayanya seru banget :"|
I want to have a tree house :(
good but in this part there wasnt any suspense kind of story
One of the best children's books ever. Although I may be saying that because it's the first book I remember reading.
I am in LOVE with this book, even though I read it long ago. It was soooooo amazing.
A simple, nice story by Enid Blyton. And my first book by her.
Another of my favourite childhood reads, read hundreds of times!
First Novel I've ever read in my life when i was kid.. :D
One of my favourite Enid Blyton novels! I am, and ever will be, obsessed with hollow tree houses...
Great little book with a lovely ending.
the book u want to read in your bed,on a lazy,rainy afternoon...Ah!heaven!!
