https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9602.Palm_Sunday
Only now, reading Palm Sunday, an autobiographical collection of essays, notes, letters, sketches, stories and interviews, first published in 1981, could I gain a more complete understanding of one of my favorite authors.
I now understand how autobiographical many of his other books are, with themes gleaned from his experiences.
A Los Angeles Times book review said of Vonnegut – “He is either the funniest serious writer around or the most serious funny writer” and I don’t think I can do any better than that.
Palm Sunday is a must for a serious fan and a good book otherwise for anyone else.
Here's a bit from the interview itself:INTERVIEWER: Did your sister try to write for money, too?VONNEGUT: No. She could have been a remarkable sculptor, too.
I thought people were supposed to grab their talents and run as far and fast as they could.INTERVIEWER: What do you think now?VONNEGUT: Well — what my sister said now seems a peculiarly feminine sort of wisdom.
They saw me run as far and as fast as I could – and it must have looked like quite a crazy performance to them.
It isn't really a memoir in the traditional sense of offering an autobio, but some important parts of V's bio do stand out as he talks about the world and what human beings are doing with it.
Another book that lifts my heart and tempts me to believe that there's something worth struggling for on this planet and that human beings just might have something important to offer in the quest to treat the world and the people in it as if all of this mattered.
"Laughs are exactly as honorable as tears." This nonfiction collection is a mishmash of speeches, essays, interviews, and family history with a healthy dose of his inherited "heart-felt moral code." A must-read for KV fans. I love his nonfiction because it's very conversational. If I could have dinner with an author, dead or alive, I would certainly choose him.
The sequel to the bestselling smash Wampeters, Foma and Granfalloons contains an unholy amount of Vonnegut’s semi-profound public speeches (semi-profound as a good thing), hewn together with a great deal of amiable rambling and autobiographical detail.
For a thorough account of Vonnegut’s impressive lineage—descended from prosperous Germans, no less—and illuminating accounts of his early life (far less torturous than the gloss he gives in some of his prefaces), this is an indispensable collection.
On a less interesting note, I read this book entirely on a Sunday.
Next up, John Barth’s The Friday Book entirely on a Friday.
Good eulogy for Chicago tough-guy James T. Farrell, but why on earth was he sucking up to William F. Buckley? And what's with "my list of really cool celebrity friends?" How insecure was this guy anyway?
Reading Vonnegut is such a rewarding experience. It's also such an easy one, his words flow with such ease - as if he is in the room and addressing you alone.I enjoyed this, but I so longed for it to be a story, for the appearance of Trout or Pilgrim - or even Hoover. I miss Mr Vonnegut.God Bless You.And so he went.
He was actually a writer of tremendous rigor.He even points out that his repetition of the phrase "And so it goes" is his version of Celine's use of ellipses.PALM SUNDAY is more interesting to me than Vonnegut's novels, because he gets directly to the things I like to hear him talk about: Man's inhumanity to man, man's strangeness, the plight of the individual.If you've ever tried to write fiction, PALM SUNDAY has, throughout, some very serious and practical advice.
You know how sometimes you get home from work too tired to cook so you throw open the fridge and pull out all the leftovers? That is this book. It's a smorgasbord of family history, speeches, observations, and work rejected for publication elsewhere. Some of it is edible, some even enjoyable, but a few dishes should have been thrown away months ago, before they sprouted legs and eyes. So it goes.
3.5
"Цветница" би послужила за страхотно заключение на личността на Кърт Вонегът. Аз избрах да е моето въведение.
"Palm Sunday" is a book that dedicated Vonnegut fans should read, but not the casual reader.
It has hints at the bitterness that would come to swallow up Vonnegut's' later works, but it had not consumed him yet when he wrote "Palm Sunday".One of the most interesting aspects of the text is when Vonnegut lies about himself.
I think most of us would have cleaned up our past a little if we could have, and Vonnegut's humanity is what has always drawn me to him and his writing.Any avid reader will enjoy the opening chapter of "Palm Sunday" which deals with the first amendment and censorship.
This companion to 1974's "Wampeters, Foma & Granfalloons" consists, like that earlier volume, largely of non-fiction in the form of essays, addresses, interviews, etc.
And like its companion, it offers a wealth of insight into Vonnegut's fiction, with particular emphasis on autobiographical connections.
You don't have to be a Vonnegut devotee, either, in order to enjoy "Palm Sunday," although his self-assessment of his novels (he assigns grades to each of them) is enlightening, even if you disagree with him.
The inclusion of a second-rate short story, an overly-long history of his family, and, arguably, one too many speeches, slows the pace.
One of the things that I love about the Internet is that I can run across things that I wrote a while ago, read them, and be reminded of how dumb I can be.
Kurt Vonnegut probably would have loved that too.
When that happens, I realize that it lives there, on the Internet, and probably can't be converted to a piece of paper because it is an Internet creature.
Where do they hand those out?But, I guess I should say a few words about the book I just read because that's what the computer tells me.
Vonnegut himself calls this book a "pastiche," a high-falutin' word I only learned last year in a grad course on contemporary American literature.
As a Vonnegut fan, I was intrigued by the opportunity to go through the book.
Since I seem to be in the process of reading every book he wrote, it's worth reading to gain insight into his worldview, especially where religion, politics, family, and his German-American identity are involved.
I guess that's what happens when you throw a bunch of things together, into one book.
I’ve mentioned my dislike of nonfiction and whatnot, and with Vonnegut here, yes, I would rather read any of his other writings before a collection of speeches, essays, and reflections.
There’s really no section/chapter that blew me away, and the third chapter on his family tree was pretty dull (perhaps those who care about genealogy and family traits/dynasties would care more than I), but the rest of the book was an interesting compilation of thoughts and waxings about life – formally done in speeches of NYT pieces or informal reflections – that really expound on the voice he has created in his fictional works.
Some slow parts, some stuff that I skipped over, but overall very good.I'll share a few of my highlights with you:“That is how you get to be a writer, incidentally: you feel somehow marginal, somehow slightly off-balance all the time.""every one of the tales of lost innocence you receive will embody not only the startling discovery of the human soul, but of how diseased it can be.""How sick was the soul revealed by the flash at Hiroshima?
Heartbreaking because KV "jokes" throughout about how unappreciated his work was, not only by literary critics (about whom he has provided the reader with several brilliant observations), but also by his own large and extended family with whom he clearly wished to be closer.
By example, a bookstore- owning aunt who declined to stock KV's novels!Perhaps it was "internalized criticism" or KV simply attempting to be authentic when he included a report card of his writing over the prior 30 years up to the publication of Palm Sunday.
I loved where he gave each of his books a grade (Palm Sunday itself got a C) and seeing the graphs of story plots (his rejected master's thesis at University of Chicago).
For one thing, I believe that the best minds of my generation were probably musicians and physicists and mathematicians and biologists and archaeologists and chess masters and so on, and Ginsberg's closest friends, if I'm not mistaken, were undergraduates in the English department of Columbia University."No offense intended, but it would never occur to me to look for the best minds in any generation in an undergraduate English department anywhere.
Not only do we get a rundown on Vonnegut's family tree dating all the way back to Germany, included with it practically the entire history of Indianapolis, Indiana, but we get discourses on his marriages, his children, and his opinions on education, religion, literary criticism, William F.
Also included is a summary of his rejected dissertation from the University of Chicago where he analyzes the story arcs of several works of literature via graph paper and concludes that Cinderella is essentially the same story as that of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden.
So it wasn't a tight, neat, clever story like Cat's Cradle, but I couldn't help totally loving this guy's writing, and much of his perspective on the world.Some theological highlights:-"I don't think anybody ever dreaded hell as much as most of us dread the contempt of our fellowmen.
Under our new and heartfelt moral code, we might be able to horrify would-be evildoers with just that: the contempt of their fellowmen.
And it's a really, really refreshing breath that I find myself never able to get enough of.
If you are an American, you must allow ideas to circulate freely in your community, not merely your own.""What troubles me most about my lovely country is that its children are seldom taught that American freedom will vanish, if, when they grow up, and in the exercise of their duties as citizens, they insist that our courts and policemen and prisons be guided by divine or natural law.""Are we foolish to be so elated by books in an age of movies and television?
Not in the least, for our ability to read, when combined with libraries like this one, makes us the freest of women and men--and children.""Our freedom to say or write whatever we please in this country is holy to me.
Funny how when the real world is managing to produce events and stories that would be way beyond what the average writer would consider plausible (and frankly, some bits beyond sci-fi), a chance to head back to a wise voice talking about well, damn near anything.
Some hit more than others, nearly all ramble, which is a huge part of the charm and topics cover family, events, writing, writers, anecdotes or whatever was in his head that particular day.Vonnegut readers will be familiar with a lot of the content and stories (which he often drew on or repeated, particularly around his own family (and how he came to adopt his sister's two children again was black, stranger than fiction territory).
Ако очаквате високо интелектуална книга, сбъркали сте човека, тук Вонегът е циничен, груб, а на места и вулгарен – такъв какъвто не го бях виждала и очаквала. Хареса ми, макар и не толкова много колкото очаквах, но след като се отърсих от предварителната си нагласа успях да го видя такъв какъвто е, а той безспорно е изключително колоритен, макар че тук не е толкова забавен и остроумен, тук лекичко повдига завесата, за да ни покаже кой е истинският Вонегът, или и този път ни пързаля и ни се присмива отнякъде...https://knijensviat.wordpress.com/201...
A collection of lectures, speeches, essays, Statler Brothers' songs and whatever else he managed to cram in here, it's all very Vonnegut at its core...well, maybe all except for the Statler Brothers' songs, those are purely country. Heh.It's definitely not Vonnegut's best work, but it's a good read nonetheless and has some very interesting quotes inside. Vonnegut's got an interesting slant on life, and this book pretty much throws the doors open on that outlook and let's you inside his own little universe and what a pleasnt little universe it is.
A collection of essays, speeches and magazine articles, this work feels a bit 'thrown together'. But there are some gems within, including some good advice for fledgling writers: "Did you ever admire an empty-headed writer for his or her mastery of the language? No... Find a subject you care about. It is this genuine caring, and not your games with language, which will be the most compelling and seductive element in your style."
I finished reading this a few weeks ago and loved it. At first I thought it was tedious and indigestible, but the further along I got, the more I appreciated this sarcastic, collage-autobiography. Well worth a read, but only if you've read a few Vonnegut books beforehand. Otherwise you might get offended, or might not understand the comedic arrogance of the novel.
I read this for an Advance Composition class. I never thought much about it however the concepts he brings to his audiences attention keep coming up in real life situations so I guess this was more of a valuable work than I thought.
Ah, Mr. Vonnegut, we never did get to smoke those Pall Malls. So it goes....
I asked a friend what she thought of Palm Sunday and she said Vonnegut wrote some books merely to put food on the table.
Palm Sunday is a true collage, a collection of speeches, musings, and family history, with a short story, play, and interview thrown in.
You've tried, but could never be a hundred people to me." (206-207)I give book an A-.
It is sloppy and likely meant to put food on the table, but both were part of Vonnegut's particular charm.
