https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/760019.Letters_and_Papers_from_Prison
Another fantastic one for my quote series:“Please don’t ever get anxious or worry about me, but don’t forget to pray for me – I’m sure you don’t.
I am so sure of God’s guiding hand that I hope I shall always be kept in that certainty.
My past life is brim-full of God’s goodness and my sins are covered by the forgiving love of Christ crucified.”One of my favorite research papers to write was one on Christian German resistance during World War II.
While I could go on for days discussing it (which I’m sure you find shocking), I’ll just stick to one of the main players from that: Dietrich Bonhoeffer.
Christians are now called to live with Christ in a world that has rejected religion without being religious.
In the letters D's ideas were not completely expressed but a lot of interesting thoughts could come out of what he did write.
ONe can see where Peter Rollins got a lot of his inspiration for some of his ideas from this volume, i.e. deus ex machina, etc...
We suffer with Christ in a world that has rejected God. The Christian does not run and hide; but embracing his calling to live in a world without God and suffer with Christ in that world.
This book is a collection of letters he wrote from prison to his family, his fiancee Maria, and his dearest friend Eberhard.Bonhoeffer was in his late 30s when he was arrested.
While he is remembered by those who knew him in his last months as a fiercely brave, courageous, and selfless man, we see in the letters his inner turmoil, his fear, loneliness, and sense of isolation in a world his theology never imagined.Included in the collection are polite and cheerful love letters to the young Maria von Wedemeyer, to whom he has proposed marriage.
In the midst of such a difficult, painful experience, Bonhoeffer displays deep faith and profound composure in his letters to his family and fiance.
Granted, Bonhoeffer's World War II German prison experience was more comfortable than was typical, but I truly believe him when he writes he is comfortable, at peace, and even finding ways to enjoy solitude.
The book is also a wonderful look into Bonhoeffer's more intimate theological wonderings, but I actually treasure the book most for the deep friendship and love displayed in the letters between him and Eberhard Bethge.
"You must never doubt that I'm traveling with gratitude and cheerfulness along the road where I'm being led." -- Dietrich Bonhoeffer, letter from prison, Aug. 23, 1944My sister pointed out how much significant writing comes from people who were incarcerated: The Apostle Paul (several of his epistles), Martin Luther King Jr.
The original edition limited itself to Bonhoeffer's letters, and only to those that addressed theological concepts.
Several of his early letters to his parents include a request for smoking materials.Almost all of the theology comes in letters written to his friend and in-law Eberhard Bethge (who married Bonhoeffer's niece).
The story of Dietrich Bonhoeffer is tragic and inspiring. This edition of his letters and papers from a Nazi prison provides invaluable primary-source material in the context of events that engulfed Bonhoeffer during World War II. Of course, as a result of his circumstances, he had to be circumspect, as it was evident that the Nazi authorities would read his correspondence.Bonhoeffer made the long journey from Lutheran nonresistance to the prevailing governmental authorities to a more active resistance to Nazism. For this, he paid the price with his life.
Come for the reflection on Christianity without religion, stay for the requests for appropriate shoepolish.
The brilliance of this book lies in the intimacy you get with the authors (mostly Bethge and Bonhoeffer).
The cheerfulness and resilience displayed by Bonhoeffer, implicated in many of his letters, are extremely admirable.
Because Bethge and Bonhoeffer were very close, they could express a world of thought in half a sentence, which makes it sometimes hard for an outsider to grasp the complete meaning.
Still, even for the reader less acquainted with Bonhoeffer's other works, this is a great way to pick his brain a little bit, 70 years later.
THE GOOD: True story. Does go into a fair bit of theological detail.THE BAD: To be honest, this book was a bit of a bore. I've always been interested in WW2 and learning more about Dietrich Bonhoeffer, one of the great theologians of his time. However, the majority of his letters were pretty mundane (get me this, get me that) and failed to keep me entertained at all.THE UGLY: I give this book 2 stars based on fact that I felt like I had to labour through most of it (Excuse the pun).
In prison for his resistance against the Nazi regime, Bonhoeffer struggles with what it means to be a christian in the postmodern world. Here is where he begins to formulate his idea of "religionless Christianity." he writes with the urgency, immediacy, and raw emotion of a man wrestling WITH and at the same time resting WITHIN a real God in a real world gone mad. He writes with the power of kierkegaard and the quiet passion of Buber all at the same time. This book helped me find the courage to face my own hard questions of faith head on.
Rev. Bonhoeffer's prison writings; written while he was imprisoned by the Nazis. I would recommend any of this great man's writings. However, I would not recommend this as a first book for someone unfamiliar with his work. Because it is largely comprised of his letters, it can be a bit disjointed and confusing to someone unfamiliar with his thought. Best to start with "The Cost of Discipleship" or the "Ethics".
Both inspiring as well as a smack to the bottom in the same breath. At one end it is a reminder to always act how Jesus would to influence others in daily life, and at the other it is a wake up call to Christians to act against a religionless world and Christianity and return to restoring touchstone of the Church and Christ. "God is beyond in the midst of our life. The church stands, not at the boundaries where human powers give out, but in the middle of the village."
"I believe that God will give us all the strength we need to help us to resist in all time of distress. But he never gives it in advance, lest we should rely on ourselves and not on him alone. A faith such as this should allay all our fears for the future." What an amazing book written by an amazing man.
An important volume in prison literature. Insightful. It was helpful to have read a biography of Bonhoeffer before tackling this. Not light or easy reading, some of the letters just trifles, but overall worth the read.
Only the man whose final standard is not his reason, his principles, his conscience, his freedom, or his virtue, but who is ready to sacrifice all this when he is called to obedient and responsible action in faith and in exclusive allegiance to God--the responsible man, who tries to make his whole life an answer to the question and call of God. Where are these responsible people (p.
In your love you see only your two selves in the world, but in marriage you are a link in the chain of the generations, which God causes to come and to pass away to his glory, and calls into his kingdom.
Context is needed, not least because Bonhoeffer was playing a role in many of his letters (for the censors) and they read as being pretty naive and over-cheerful.
But I think one of the biggest factors that made him the man he was was his discipline.
Reading this book, even knowing the ending in advance, is sad.
It's sad that we lost such a man to the insanity of Nazi Germany.
believed in a greater life than the one that he was living, and he hoped in that in very difficult circumstances.
For me, the beginning of life.'
This book is quite substantial, and as Bonhoeffer spent a lot of time in prison, in which he wrote melancholy poetry, read as voraciously as he could, and even bribed some guards so that he could pass letters to and from family and friends, and it is little surprise that the enforced solitude and boredom of his life and being limited only to his own head and heart except for the comfort he drew from the loyalty of his politically active family and largely theologically-inclined friends would lead to some intense letters.
Absolutely essential for those of the Lutheran tradition or anyone who wants to understand one of the greatest men of the 20th century.
Letters and Papers from Prison (LPP) by Dietrich Bonhoeffer is a fascinating creation of desperation and subtle suffering wrapped up within an understanding and reliance upon the Judeo-Christian God. Bonhoeffer is a Lutheran Theologian who was arrested by the Gestapo during the Second World War, due to his resistance to the Nazi Germany Regime.
LPP has done little more than encourage me to step up my reading habits.While a few months’ worth of letters were lost, with his remaining time on Earth being spent in a concentration camp (preventing further writings), Bonhoeffer's prison life is documented in an un-endearing way.
There are two reasons for this; the first being the time taken to comprehend the depth of some of the writing, with the second being the inability at times to endure the book knowing full well the tragic ending.There is no doubt that Bonhoeffer was a great figure in the twentieth century Christian world, a great thinker about Christianity in the modern world, and one of the great moral opponents of Adolf Hitler and the Nazis.As the title suggests, Bonhoeffer was eventually imprisoned by the Nazis - he was held in Berlin for nearly two years without trial, and was hanged exactly one month before Germany unconditionally surrendered in 1945.
"Dietrich Bonhoeffer: Letters & Papers from Prison" is an interesting look at prison life, WW2, Bonhoeffer's family relationships, friendship (which is most of the latter part of the book, along with practical Christianity) and theology.
In the middle of Dietrich's last letter to his friend Eberhard, he wrote: "Please don't ever get anxious or worried about me, but don't forget to pray for me – I'm sure you don't!
I'm most thankful for the people I have met, and I only hope that they never have to grieve about me, but that they, too, will always be certain of, and thankful for, God's mercy and forgiveness.
Bonhoeffer is not spending the bulk of his time digging into theological issues, though he does that occasional, particularly at the end.
Instead, he is relating to his friends and family, particularly super-friend Bethge.
Toward the end, you have the record of his parent's quietly frantic attempts to reach him...after he's been transferred to the concentration camps.There were a couple of dozen segments that will continue to resonate with me theologically...but this book is about the accumulated snapshots of a life in desperate tension - one about to be extinguished yet hopeful and positive to the last.
Dietrich Bonhoeffer, one of the most influential theologians of our time, had a classical Literature education, and studied under the great theologians of his day.
There he held services and taught his fellow prisoners and contemplated what it means to be good.A Christian classic, this book contains a collection of his notes, letters, poems, sermons, and journal Bonhoeffer wrote during his time in the Nazi jail.
When it was discovered he had been involved in the plot to assassinate Hitler he was hanged in 1945.
Two weeks later, the Americans liberated the camp.
I wasn't able to finish this book because it had to go back to the library.
He and his family write back and forth about the practical dealings of his life: please bring books, thanks for the food you brought--it gives him hope.
But it's never dull.He goes through different emotions: optimism, longing, frustration, annoyance.
I cannot imagine being cooped up like this for as long as he survived it, but he talks about how he spends his time reading, thinking, and writing--such eloquent letters.More on Bonhoeffer: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dietrich...
Bonhoeffer, the martyr of the Christian resistance to Hitler, writes with eloquence in these letters.
He also seems to say that the world is godless in the sense that we are not willing to participate in the suffering of others in the here and now, but are so consumed with the self that we seek only an escape of some kind.
In these letters Bonhoeffer created a summons for the believer to live in this world, filled as it is with sin and wickedness, rather than to pine for the next; to feel the suffering of others.
I will be reading more Bonhoeffer.
This book is a good introduction in some ways because the letters are very readable for the layperson.
It is hard to read the hope he has to get out of prison and return home when you know his story.Too many good quotes...
46"It is lovely to go like this on voyages of literary discovery, and it is amazing what surprises one comes across after so many years of reading." p.
166"May God in his mercy lead us through these times.
But above all may he lead us to himself." p.
I read Eric Metaxas's "Bonhoeffer" a year ago, and reading these letters gives more depth to my understanding of this unusual man.
Beginning with his imprisonment in April 1943 until his letters were stopped by the Gestapo in October 1944, his correspondence with his family and friends was enormous.
His letters begin with his hope for a speedy release.
As the months go on, he resigns himself to his imprisonment without flagging in his hope in God.Some of these letters are easy to read; others, especially those to his seminary friend Eberhard Bethge, are full of theology and can be difficult to understand.
I got this book at the library and I think I want to get it for my kindle and re-read it.
Bonhoeffer is very analytical with his thoughts and I enjoyed how he worked his thoughts onto his letters.
The letters were very revealing and somber.
There were several surprises in the book.
He did think about suicide but had claimed that he would overcome by prayer.
In one of his letters to his good friend who was a soldier, writing about the baptism of his baby and wanting to be there for the baptism.
History and theology made a very good read.
I did not like the first third to half of the book.
The latter portion of the book, particularly his letters with Eberhard Berthge were mesmerizing and tragic.
The depth of his theological thought, particularly as examines the role of Christianity in a "world come of age," is much more intriguing than the first portion.
The most tragic, and interesting from a literary standpoint, aspect to the work is the resounding confidence that he will soon be released from prison.
Though this confidence does begin to wane, nearly to the last it is constant.
It was especially engaging as he struggled with the apparent distance of God that he feels.In his last months he proposes a 'religionless' Christianity, which I don't believe is a secular humanism that the God is Dead movement of the 60's preferred.
He begins to write about Christianity happening, not in the churches and or in ritual sacraments, but in the 'center of life', that is, christianity happening in our day-to-day relationships.
Christianity must become a religion of relationships and serving one another.
Even if God seems distant (almost secular world), God becomes evident in the love demonstrated at the center of our lives.
