https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/577181.The_First_Crossing_Of_Greenland
They gave me, these dear creatures, sensible proof that I was on land, as they sat there and sucked themselves full and red.” But after a long journey north along the coast to reach their intended starting point for the journey across the ice cap, Nansen hated them and the mosquitoes that swarmed in such great number that his hands sometimes resembled “rough woolen gloves.”In the almost month-long journey northward they encountered nomadic East Greenland Inuit, who were fascinated by the expedition’s reindeer clothing, something they had never seen, and the metal runners under their boats.
Unfortunately Nansen is an old school scientist, so the book included all his notes about the journey - containing preparations, recruting the other members, detailed explanations about all the items used (and how/where they were produced) and so on.
Until the 'real' journey starts, you'll be already halfway through the book.
In all the writing style is enjoyable, but when Nansen gets into his 'scientific mood' and starts explaining, it tends to get boring really fast - one of the reasons it took me so long to read this book.
This is an abridged version of Nansen's classic "Pa Ski Over Groenland", which was originally published in Norwegian in 1890 and was then soon translated into several other languages. It tells the story of how in 1888 the explorer, with a team of five, made the first complete traverse of Greenland.
For staying calm in danger Nansen is superb. Of course its hard to know if he comes over calmer in print than he and his companions actually felt at the time... However, his wonderful calmness is heartening compared to our times, when anxiety is talked up on the most trivial of occasions.There are also tender passages in this book, when he takes time to appreciate the beauty of the scenery. Again his appreciation is not dramatised into hysteria. And he even took the time, in those conditions, to make sketches.A wonderful book.
Swedish edition, 1985, included "Eskimoliv"
in norwegian
