https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33729.Faking_It
What if someone wrote a Harlequin Romance while dropping acid? I'm pretty sure this book would be the result. Jennifer Crusie, whose known for her quirky romance novels, outdoes herself with this tale. Who else would create a heroine who has to fake an orgasm with the hero the first time they have sex because it's so bad? Who else would describe their first kiss as "tasting of vodka and disaster"? This book is just so much fun.
3.5 flashy painted starsPopsugar challenge #4: libro que involucre un robo. “Everybody’s crooked,” Davy said. “The trick is to find out how they’re bent. Then you make sure the consequences are so great they stay straight anyway.” This is like one of those old movies of screwball comedy... made me feel nostalgic; I really miss them.Lot of crooked faulty charming characters, and it made me chuckle sometimes too.  :)Davy Dempsey quiere sus 3 millones de vuelta. Su ex- le sustrajo su dinero con ayu
Por otra parte, Tilda tiene sus propios esqueletos en el armario con las pinturas , la galeria de arte que es el negocio familiar y su familia.Si a alguno esto le asemeja a How to Steal a Million (Como robar un millón, 1966), puede que sea o no una coincidencia :P
“What made you think we had a relationship?” 	“We were living together,” Davy said.
Whereas muffins just sort of sit there all lumpy, looking alike, no chocolate icing at all.” 	 	“And while muffins may be excellent,” Nadine went on, “especially the pineapple-orange ones, they’re no doughnuts.” 	“So doughnuts are good,” Davy said, trying to keep up his end of the conversation.
5 Stars...I LOVED it...Oh my goodness...where shall I start with this never gonna give this book enough credit review?!"Faking It" started off as one of those (and I'm sure I'm not alone in this) books that I picked up a couple times and just put down because I just wasn't clicking with the characters at that point in time.
I started really reading this book yesterday morning and just devoured it in a days time.This is a total of 3 books that I've read by this wonderful author...and I've rated all of them a very rare 5 Star (it's not very often you get a 3 out of 3).
My favorite Crusie, who is my favorite contemporary romance writer, smart and witty.I am wanting a lot of analgesic fiction this week, so I am rereading a bunch of Crusie and Krentz (who is my Crusie-methadone go-to).
In Faking It, Crusie is definitely at the top of her form, for my tastes.Technically, Faking it is a sequel to Welcome to Temptation, in that romance-series way that jumps to follow another somehow-related couple, but it works fine as a stand-alone as well.Highly recommended.I bought a Kindle edition, since my old paperback copy is buried in a box in my garage at present, and I didn't want to wait in line for Overdrive from my library.
Faking It was the first book I ever read by  Jennifer Crusie and is the reason I went to read every other book she has ever written.
This one, however, remains my favorite.
The heroine is asthmatic which is a first for me in fiction -- asthma as a charming plot ploy rather than the sad pathetic fat kid's problem.
Here, here, Ms. Crusie!
Faking It is the perfect beach read, vaction book or airport diversion.
Charming and a little racy, I have returned to this book several times to visit with the quirky Goodnights.
This was not truly truly a 5 star read.
But it’s my prerogative - and next year or in 3 years I’ll look back and remember this idiotic book that had me smiling throughout.
It’s charming bc it’s the story of two grifters falling in love.
And the most insane family I’ve read outside an Irving novel.
Tilda and Davy were offbeat and bizarre and real.
Rather than a book where a character has a quirk or imperfection this was a story where the characters were quirks and imperfections.
Davy.
There was nothing normal about this book, and i couldn’t be happier about that.
When I first read "Welcome to Temptation" (one of my all-time favorite books), I fell in love with Sophie's brother, bad-boy Davy Dempsey.
This book was not as funny, clever, sexy or charming as Crusie's prior novels.
Matilda Goodnight is disappointing and not at all what I had in mind for Davy.
Her sister with split personalities, cross-dressing ex-brother-in-law, a couple of smart ass teenagers and a hit man did make the book slightly more interesting, but altogether I felt let down.
The sexual dysfunction between Davy and Matilda was frustrating.
I am a HUGE fan of Jennifer Crusie's books; however, she can do so much better than "Faking It".
Tilda Goodnight is an artist working out of the gallery that's been in her family for hundreds of years.
Her whole family lives in the building that the gallery is located in, and in the basement they hide the family secrets.
And this family has a lot of secrets.Enter Davy Dempsey (previously seen in Welcome to Temptation).
He comes from a family with a lot of secrets, too.
When he and Tilda realize they have a common goal and a need to commit a crime, they start working together - and falling for each other.
I think this book just wasn't for me.
Here I thought the Dempseys were hilariously bent then JC introduces us to the Goodnights. I laughed so hard reading this book. I didn't give Davy much thought in Welcome To Temptation. In this book we see how funny, handsome, creative and sensitive he is....not to mention conniving. Really enjoyed this series!
So here we go:• Davy (I dunno why each time I read Davy’s name I get Davy Jones in my mind… Am I losing it?) – I just loved him, my favorite character.
Wonder why?• Gwen – awesome grandma; I want one of those.• Eve/Louise – another piece of work – big wtf.• Ford – loved him; he’s a damn psycho killer but a silent one – guess a bit like Dexter (http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0773262/).• Simon – smart guy, I respect the friendship he has with Davy.
My favorite of the series is definitely “Faking it”.Top 5 quotes#5 “You do a beautiful bitch,” Davy said.

Rating 3.25The first half of this book annoyed me, I almost DNF'ed it but the second half worked much better for me because the heroine worked better for me, in the first half she seemed dull, morose, lifeless and I didn't see what the hero Davy saw in her, so much so that he stole for her when he was trying to remain straight. There were many threads from the previous book mainly Clea, the seductive and conniving ex of Davy who now had his money. The heroine's crazy family grew on me later.
That was an enjoyable funny smart contemporary romance that I want to read more often.
I couldn't put it down.After reading Agnes and the Hitman by Jennifer Crusie I was excited that I had found another splendid writer of the genre.
Then I read The Cinderella Deal and my hopes went down a little.
But now, I am excited again and I am definitely going to read more of Crusie's novels.Pull yourself together.
And Jennifer Crusie dealt with characters' problems with wit and wisdom.In other words, it was first of all a fast funny reading - great for a nice weekend.
Her family has been in the art forgery business since the Middle Ages, and the cellar of her family house and gallery in Columbus, Ohio, is filled with forgeries her multiple ancestors painted ‘for future generations.’ But Tilda hates to be a forger.
He meets Tilda in a closet, while he and she try to steal from the same house: she – her painting, he – his money.
It is for her that he stole Davy’s money.Clea is a beautiful 40+ woman, in love with herself, who wants to marry a rich man for the last time in her life.
Ok, but not recommended.This book is the sequel to Welcome To Temptation, which was about Sophie and Phin.
The plot didn't make sense to me.
Someone paints pictures and signs them with a fake name in the way someone uses a "pen name" to write books.
That didn't make sense to me since the name she signed wasn't a name used by anyone else.
Davy is a reformed con man who meets the painter and more events happen.
I read this because I loved three other books by this author which are "Bet Me,' "Welcome To Temptation" and "Anyone But You." I do not recommend "Faking It."DATA:Sexual language: moderate.
Rtc
I didn't much care for Davy in the first book, but he turns out beyond swoon-worthy here--and without major revision of his character from the first, either.
Yum. And if that isn't enough, Tilda is worthy of her own crush what with the passionate, strong woman overcoming her learned insecurity as she strives to care for those she loves.Crusie has a real talent for creating compelling characters who fit the story exactly right without any authorial manipulation whatsoever.
Three (I think) explicit scenes of moderate length with the occasional passionate stolen moment here and there.
This was hilarious. Funnier than Welcome to Temptation. Which was really funny. I added an extra star because it was even better on second reading.
This book started slow for me and with so many characters introduced early on was a bit hard to follow. But it grew on me - the zany, weird characters and the plot twists. It was a fun read, and what I have come to expect from this author.
"So I'm a selfish bastard for wanting to do the right thing?""Yes," Tilda said."I know that's wrong." Davy stood up.
This book is Davy Dempsey's adventure.Things I liked about this book: Their, Davy and Tilda, relationship was very calm compared to some chick-lit relationships.
(view spoiler)[Between bad sex and Tilda's stubborn nature.
I love the growth of the characters, considering this is a chick-lit book and it's not as if characters change all that much in them, this one I found the way they changed or released all the old baggage was normal.
I still like this book and I love the characters.
I was hesitant about listening to this audiobook because I didn't like Welcome to Temptation, including Davy, who is the lead in Faking It. I finally gave it a try and while it wasn't a complete success for me, it was a great book.
Faking It is different from Welcome to Temptation mainly because it was peopled with quirky characters who were also likable.
Her comedic timing was spot on, and her character voices were clear without her trying to fake the men's voices.
Faking It is my new favorite Jennifer Crusie novel.
This book was riotously funny almost from beginning to end, but there were a few poignant moments that added depth to an otherwise zany comedy.
I waited several months to read Faking It after finishing Welcome to Temptation, because I just wasn't sure I wanted to visit the Dempsey family again.
Welcome to Temptation was hilarious, but I disliked most of the characters.
In fact, the only character I liked in Welcome to Temptation was Davy.
I was concerned that I would have to put up with more unpleasant characters in Faking It, but I needn't have worried.
Aside from the fabulous characters and great lines, this book has my favorite awkward sex scene.
I get tired of reading typical romance paperback sex scenes where everything is perfect, predictable, and synchronized.
I really appreciate the realistic, not-so-vanilla sex and Tilda's long term relationship with an appliance.Matilda Goodnight is an ashmatic artist chained to the family gallery and her mural painting business by a massive mortagage and a ton of buried family secrets.
Davy's looking to steal several million back from his crooked accountant and Matilda decides that she needs a thief to steal paintings back that could reveal family secrets and the antics ensue from there.
This book featured THE most insane, quirky characters that I think I've ever seen.
I think this is Crusie's specialty though, creating characters that are so quirky that they are amusing.
Matilda Goodnight is the youngest daughter in her family, and yet she's the one who takes care of everyone.
The crazy cast of characters include Gwen who is so bored with her life that she is prone to drawing teeth on things, Eve the oldest daughter in the family has two personalities, an ex-husband Andrew who decided he was gay, his new love Jeff who is just a lawyer and then there's Davy, a reformed con man.There is a connection between Davy and the Dempsey's in Crusie's Dempsey series.
A really well done, light-hearted romance with all the zaniness you'd expect from a Crusie novel. The plot does begin to wobble apart towards the end, because there was one rather large element which I found not at all convincing, but Crusie throws so much at you—hit men and art forgeries and split personalities and families of con artists—that you just have to go with it. I also loved that the main couple, Tilda and Davy, started out having utterly mediocre sex, and only started setting the house on fire once they really got to know one another. Highly recommended.
This is the kind of romp that would have made a great 1940's movie. Every character is more than a little quirky; the banter is superb; the romance is evident but not central, and very roundabout. For something I thought would be a throwaway summer novel, I was beyond impressed. This is good writing, good storytelling, good pacing, good character development. It was a pleasant surprise. I'm a new Jennifer Crusie fan, through and through!
A fun, sexy read.
3.5 สนุก ขำขัน ชอบคาแรคเตอรพระเอกนางเอก ฉากเซกสหวยแตกนีกชอบ แปลกดี ฮาๆ ฮาฉากทีไปแอบกันในตูเสือผาดวย
3.5 สนุก ขำขัน ชอบคาแรคเตอร์พระเอกนางเอก ฉากเซ็กส์ห่วยแตกนี่ก็ชอบ แปลกดี ฮ่าๆ ฮาฉากที่ไปแอบกันในตู้เสื้อผ้าด้วย
In fact Tilda is actually the plainest of all the women in this book: Eve is described as being the good looking sister, Nadine seems to always have a string of men in tow, Gwennie seems to be the yummiest grandmother with the number of men chasing her despite her personality appearing to be so uninteresting (to those who do not know about her teeth fetish), and we cannot forget Clea who gets by on her looks alone (although to her dismay her looks only make her a millionaire which is not rich enough apparently).All the conning scenes were great, Davy and Tilda make a great pair.
(hide spoiler)]I like this author, I need to find one similar before I run out of her books.P.S. I can't believe that Crusie put in a sex scene of the girl pretending to come when the hero and heroine are having sex.
Sometimes a family can be three generations of women living in an art gallery & apartment building with an artist tenant, an ex-husband, the ex-husband's new husband, and three good-looking men of dubious character who get sucked into the complicated plot vortex. And a dog. <3
