https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19552.Essentials_of_Classic_Italian_Cooking
I love Marcella, though my Italian friend Christiana says Marcella and her adorable husband are "trailer court Italian."We actually own TWO copies of this book, the nice newer copy you pick up to leaf through, and a tattered older copy that I learned Italian cooking from.
Ah-MAHZ-ing.Marcella can be a bit preachy when it comes to ingredients.
I also love that she cooks with 1)a big glass of wine and 2)a cigarette hanging out of her mouth.
I actually thought about stalking Marcella when I was in Venice last summer, but I was afraid she'd beat me up.
This time I changed my approach, sticking to two rules: keep it simple – no glossy pictures or overly fussy recipes that always go wrong; choose a country and specialize in its cuisine.
In fact this approach worked so well I am now expected to cook every Saturday, which is not quite the outcome I wanted but at least I get to eat what I like.My Italian cooking was only a success because, with the help of goodreads.com, I could select a cookbook as excellent as this.
I've never used this reviewer's cliche before, but if I could give it ten stars, I would.If you think your pasta sauces are good, make hers and stand astounded.If you think you have a handle on making pasta, pizza, gnocchi, soups et cetera, let her school you.If you want to eat really, really well every night, then work your way through this cookbook.This is widely considered to be the definitive Italian cookbook, by a woman considered to be the Julia Child of Italian cooking.
Above all, you will cook and eat.
O mia cara Marcella! Thanks to her I will never eat bottled tomato sauce again!I have used this cookbook on a near daily basis since I received it as a gift two months ago. I have made and frozen almost all of her tomato-based sauces and I cannot imagine ever opening another jar of Prego in my life. Chicken cacciatora, pan-broiled steaks with tomatoes and olives, spaghetti alla carbonara... So many favorite dishes, so few days of the week.
Marcella is the cranky Julia Child, but she does know her Italian cooking and with her husband who writes/translates into english her books teaches you the basics of Italian cooking. Her pesto and Bolognese recipes are amazing and staples in our house. You have to put up with her snottiness (which just cracks me up), but it's worth it.
01/01/2013Tahun baru, harapan baru, genre buku baru..dan ini dia..jreng..jreng..culinary books..tebel benget lagi..buku bantal..untung maya bentuknya ;p dan bacanya aja sampe setahun..Ahh..harus ngomong dari mana ya..Italia, bicara tentang tentang Italia..apa hal pertama yang terlintas dibenak anda?
If however, you want to learn how to make the real deal, are willing to buy good quality ingredients and take the time to do it right, this is the cookbook for you.
I have a reputation as being a good cook of italian food and most of my friends think it's because I know a lot of italians, but really it's because of this book (though I have to credit my Aunt Milena for teaching me how to cook lasagna the real way :^).I also have another of her cookbooks "Marcella Cucina" which is more about different recipes and less about fundamentals of italian cooking.
I'm a not-very-good cook who would love to be a great chef.
Hazan's cookbook was recommended by a friend who is a fantastic cook, and it was absolutely illuminating.
She has very exacting standards, and she is very peculiar about ingredients - only fresh, whole cloves of garlic that you chop yourself, never the stuff in a jar, etc.
But by faithfully following her recipes to the letter I have managed to make some really tasty stuff, and learn a lot about flavor, food, and kitchen techniques in the process.
This will be one cookbook that I definitely buy!
This book is what I consider one of the three essential reference texts for anyone who is serious about the culinary arts. I have learned almost everything I know about Italian food from this book...and I'm still learning from it after ten years! I brought this book with me the year I lived in Milan and tried to cook my way through it...it was impossible since it is such a tome. Fabulous recipes which are easy to execute thanks to brilliantly clear instructions. A prodigy of James Beard, you can't go wrong with Marcella.
This is a wonderful and classic cookbook. My mother has used it for years and gave me a copy some years ago and I go to it often. For pasta dishes, meat dishes, salads. There are some extraordinary dishes in this book that you have most likely not had before and will cherish for all your years as a cook and food lover. A great book for a beginner or an expert cook or anyone in between. One for the ages of your kitchen.
If you only have room for one Italian cookbook on your shelves, this is it! Beautifully written, wonderfully opinionated, as the title says: essential.
You won't find a better cookbook about classic Italian cooking than this one.It covers everything you need to know---pasta, pizzas, soups, risotto---and Marcella Hazan exuberantly shares not only her recipes but also her thoughts and opinions about the ways others do Italian cooking.
While I did borrow this from my local library, Essentials of Classic Italian Cooking seems an indispensable cookbook for just plain good, beautiful, delicious Italian food.
While there are no photographs of the dishes, which I am willing to forgive and forget in this case, there are probably over 600 amazing recipes, folks!
600+ glorious delicious-ness-es (dishes so good I made up an adjective for them) ready to be made and delivered to your stomach.
If you're looking for an Italian cookbook, just one, a bible of sorts, to last you probably for-ev-er, Essentials of Classic Italian Cooking is it.
;)Well, this is your book if you want authentic, well-organized, and delicious instructions to prepare meals featuring lasagne, sauteed spinach, pesto, homemade pasta, or a shockingly simple sauce for spaghetti (recipe: heat olive oil.
Toss with spaghetti and enjoy).From this book I prepared outstanding meals for guests: dishes that I hadn't tested beforehand; I made truly exceptional minestrone for 20; I tossed together fresh produce for yummy thrown-together tomato sauces, and produced Italian cuisine to try out for myself and my friends.
It's one of those cookbooks where the recipes will turn out properly if you follow the steps, time after time (but you might spend all day stuffing cannelloni).
Marcella's recipes, for as intimidating as they may sound (risotti, stuffed squid, spinach and ricotta gnocchi, carciofi alla romana, etc.) are all authentic, easy to follow, and turn out properly every single time.
Furthermore, there's lots of great information about ingredients (and how to select the best and freshest), history and culture as relates to ingredients and dishes, and overall good, sound cooking common-sense.
She is occasionally more of a purist than I am, but isn't that the kind of teacher you'd like to rebel against from time to time?
I've made this chicken marsala recipe a thousand times, so that I've got it memorized, and people go bonkers for it every single time.
It is easy to use with the recipes being very clear and basically spot on.
I started with the pasta recipes and now have moved into the main entrees.
If you want a good starting point to produce results that will match a Chef, I suggest Drunk Roast Pork or make the Bolognese Meat Sauce to use in lasagna.
Warning: these 2 recipes will take a good portion of the day to produce, but with the season changing to winter, it is the perfect time of year to heat up the kitchen.
This is truly the essentials of Italian cooking.
Not only do you learn how to butterfly and chicken breast, stuff a squid and de-bone a leg of lamb, but her recipes are also basic, flavorful and the majority of them are easy to make with everyday ingredients you have in your pantry.
Her bottom line is building flavor.
If you take nothing except one lesson from this book, take her advise about being a patient cook and taking the time to build a strong base flavor with good olive oil, garlic, onion, celery and carrots.
This book combines Hazan's first two books, the Classic Italian Cookbook and More Classic Italian Cooking.
While the combined volume is convenient, something is lost.
Specifically, in the original works, Hazan gave suggest accompaniments for each recipe.
You pick a Primi course, for instance, and she suggests Secondis, and vice versa.
This helps you to come up with a truly Italian meal, as two courses are characteristic there.
I have found this to be very valuable, and it has been omitted from Essentials of Classic Italian Cooking.
This is the essence of Italian cooking simple recipes using great ingredients.
The recipes are simple and logical.
Italian does not have to have garlic and gravy like sauce to be Italian.
American's often learned what Italian food was from emigrants from the south Italy that opened restaurants using red checkered table clothes.
These neighborhood eatery's of the 60's and 70's often used too much garlic and served food of poor quality in my opinion.
Hazan will broaden your horizons and ground you in food the way you will find in in Italy.
True Italian is at the heart of slow cooking and farm to fork.
We have cooked many recipes from this cookbook, and they have all turned out well. I almost think you could pick a recipe at random, and it would be good. I think we eat from this book at least once or twice a week.
As a novice cook, this book has a wealth of knowledge for the uninitiated. Some parts I felt were rather hard to follow. I assume these are for the more advance cooking talents. Still a great and useful book to add to the shelves.
I still look to this book for recipes of many classic dishes that I rarely make but should make more frequently.
Absolutely essential. Amazing cooking methodologies. Don't miss the Ragu, Bolognese Style on page 127. Our book falls open to that page.
Best Italian Cookbook...Tastes Like You are There!
A classic that all those interested in Italian cooking should have on their shelves. Like many others, this is the book that truly taught me the basics of Italian cooking.
One of the best cookbooks of all time!
Marcela, where have you been my whole life? Obsessed!
She's a wonderful traditionalist in many ways -- sometimes the recipes take on more steps than necessary, but she is -- was -- a taskmaster. And more than a few of us like that about her.
I’ve owned this book for years. It is a go to when I’m in the mood for something really Italian. I particularly recommend a recipe for tomato sauce that includes nothing but tomatoes, onion, and butter. It can be miraculous!Hazan grew up in central Italy, Emilia Romagna, then lived for years in Venice, where her husband was from. She is more in the line of Julia Child then say Lidia Bastianich is.
I love this cookbook. I will hand this down to my future kids. Have learned so much about food through it as well!
