https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2391144.The_Yellow_Room
There is a pretty young girl, a murder, intrigue involving the young woman's family, and, of course, a dashing war hero in love with the heroine, and only too willing to use every means at his disposal to help her.
When it is discovered that she arrived, asking about Carol, the heroine becomes a suspect in the eyes of the local police.Dane is a war veteran whose past is a bit of a mystery.
For those who like their mysteries old-fashioned, and a bit on the romantic side, The Yellow Room is a lot of fun.
(And my haven't things changed since 1945 when this book was published...imagine being admitted to a hospital for a broken leg now, unless it required orthopedic surgery to reconstruct!)Was it the brother, who understandably did not wish to remain married to a trollop since he's from the summer-home class and, not that much is made of this, engaged to a bombshell of a rich girl?
The major, gaping holes (characters appear then vanish never to be heard of again, gods come out of more boxes than UPS ever saw, the sleuth learns things that we don't which is a major cheat) weren't really a big issue in mysteries of the day.
This one is truly vintage.
The location is in Maine during the latter years of WWII.
And don't go in the linen closet!At one of the most dramatic moments of life and death action, I actually laughed out loud.
Because our hero, Dane, was said to swear and use words that Carol had never heard, and that were "only used in the Army".
(And none of those words ever appeared in the print, either.)Times have certainly changed.
Now her actions would probably have made her the heroine.
It was nice to revisit the times when the unmarried people actually all sleep alone.
Carol Spencer arrives at her family’s summer home (called Crestview) in Bayside, Maine, with a cook and two maids, only to discover a dead woman in the house’s linen closet.
The victim had been bashed on the head and then lit on fire, although the fire had died out before spreading.Carol, still grieving her dead fiancé during the final year of World War II, teams up with a convalescing soldier, Major Jerry Dane, to find out who the pretty dead blonde was and how it was that she had come to move in as a squatter at Crestview.
A solid 3.5 stars rounded up. Lots of suspects which made it interesting for me. I have another of hers that I’m looking forward to reading.
So this makes my eighth Mary Roberts Rinehart review for the year, with two more books finished and waiting their turn.
So that makes eighteen of her books I've read in a very short period of time.
This is the first time I've stopped to think about how many of her books I've read.
Like most of Rinehart's heroines, Carol is more of an asset for the male protagonist, the love interest if you will.
Without her, the male hero wouldn't have a chance of solving the case.But what I love the most about this book, and every Rinehart book I've ever read, is the setting.
I am such a sucker for a good clean suspenseful murder mystery.
I've just discovered Ms. Rinehart's books (mentioned in Amory Blaine's reading list)and though no one will ever write murder mysteries and detective fiction like Agatha Christie did, I am now a Mary Roberts Rinehart devotee!She published stories, novels and plays from 1906 until the 1950's and is credited with the "Had-I-But-Known" school of mystery writing.
I love the suspense of the novels and the love stories that are interwoven.
The love stories are completely predictable, of course, but I'm glad they are - that way you can enjoy watching the people fall in love without it detracting from the mystery.
Fellow Agatha Christie lovers add this book to your reading list immediately.
A body is found in the linen closet of a summer home while it is being opened for the season.
Like a Christie book, there are lots of local suspects to learn about and consider as the murderers.
The war is mainly mentioned as it relates to the town residents - the lack of available workers and many shortages of consumer goods.
For instance, half the phones had been removed from the town.
Another shortage I had never thought about was the police had no film to use when the body was found!
Happy reading!
Shoot, if you read the blurb on the book I have here beside me, you'd think that some evil terror hangs out in the Yellow Room of Carol Spencer's family home in the country and that she goes in mortal fear of her elder brother.See?:As a child, Carol Spencer had always thought of Crestview as a place of light and laughter.
Carol and her help (a housekeeper/cook and two maids) arrive at the family home to open it in time to receive her elder brother Greg who is home on leave from service in WWII.
Carol Spencer has just arrived at the family’s summer estate with two servants in tow.
They are to open the house for the arrival of Carol’s brother Greg, a war hero who is on leave to receive the Congressional Medal of Honor.
Of course rationing means that gasoline, sugar, electricity and phones are all in short supply, but their mother insists Greg would want to spend time at the Maine retreat.
There are so many suspects, so many secrets, so many crimes committed that it stretches credulity too far.
The final explanation is far-fetched and unrealistic.
I read this book, along with everything else by Rinehart I could get my hands on, several times in the 70s.
As I was selecting books to get rid of, I pulled the yellowed paperback off the shelf and decided to read it again.
Now I know why it survived years of purges.
Her plots are fairly complex, and the writing moves along, making for a quick read.
This book was written in 1945, and it still holds up today.
This was just the ticket to read after a couple of long and extremely complicated current novels.
I rated this book highly because I was looking for escape, and this and another Rinehart's mystery filled that void for me. It's a bit dated, about a well-to-do family with a summer house in Maine, and that's where the mystery takes place. But if you're looking for escape, it's a good one.
Not bad, but I wish Carol had taken a more proactive role.
I like Mary Roberts Rinehart's writing. Like Agatha Christie's mysteries, she doesn't load her stories with trivial details which weigh down a story. Yellow Room, good job, Ms. MRR!
This was a good murder mystery. 4.5 stars.
Carol Spencer's brother is temporarily home from World War II, being decorated in Washington, and will shortly be home for a brief respite before his wedding. Carol's mother is insisting they open the family summer home in Maine, and after dutifully depositing her mother with her sister Elinor, she travels there.Carol's fiance was reported missing a year ago, and all - except his father - presumed him dead in the war. Unfortunately, his father lives nearby, and she knows once she's home she'll h
Carol's mother is insisting they open the family summer home in Maine, and after dutifully depositing her mother with her sister Elinor, she travels there.Carol's fiancé was reported missing a year ago, and all - except his father - presumed him dead in the war.
There's been an attempt at burning her body, all her belongings are missing, and no one seems to know who she is.But more than the police are interested in finding out about the dead woman: an injured solider named Major Dane is recuperating at another summer home, and he's more than intrigued by the situation.
This book was nothing like the blurbs.
The main female character eventually faded into the background and did nothing to advance the plot or to help solve the crime.
How in the world the main male character fell in love with her is beyond me.
Seems she spent much of the book crying in her room and being pitied by other people.
The mystery itself was sooooo incredibly convoluted.
This is a typical representation of what is so exasperating about murder mysteries.
I will probably not read anymore of Rinehart's books.
2.5-3* I became interested in this author when I learned that she was from the golden age of mystery writers in the first half of the 20th century.
I liked this book well enough to finish it, but the level of my rating is probably a little generous, more relative to the first book of hers I read, The Bat (an “oh dear,” for sure) than to my ratings for other authors.
Even so, the characters were interesting enough to keep me going, although I doubt I will be reading many more books by Rinehart.
Early Bird Book Deal | Probably my favourite of the author's so far. | This was more evenly paced than some of Rinehart's books have been, and with less melodrama. There is one late chapter that plays the pronoun game (references to only "he", in an attempt to direct suspicion onto one character) which only serves to make it clear that the murderer is someone else. A very transparent and therefore annoying red herring. But otherwise it was really pretty good.
Nice to read a good mystery set in a time remote from our current troubles. Sweet and oddly reassuring.
Always fun to read an oldie but goodie...
Not exactly hard boiled, but not "cozy" either. Not sure why I haven't read Rinehart before, Kindle editions of her books are pretty affordable, I may read some more.
I really enjoy the classic mysteries and could hardly put thus one down. You get such a feel for life as it was then. Plus, I marvel at how the crimes are solved 60 years ago.
Soldiers came home on leave and the war came with them.In some ways this is a typical Rinehart mystery, although it's written in third person and I think she was at her best when one of the participants narrates.
The war has caused many disruptions and it's the single younger daughter who must deal with them.The book is written in a leisurely (dragged out, really) style that is so different from faster paced modern writing that many younger people may not be able to enjoy it.
So many people have told me to read Mary Roberts Rinhart since I'm a Golden Age mystery fan.
In this case the mystery is set in WWII Maine.
So many of the Golden Age moments are in this book.
The mystery is tricky and a bit convoluted, but I did enjoy the book - so much so that I plan to read Ms. Rinehart's enite backlist in the coming months.
I thought I'd plumbed the depths of the Golden Age authors, so it was refreshing to see that there are more still out there.
The Yellow Room was another fun, quick read by Rinehart.
The Yellow Room was full of many twists and turns making it hard to guess who the murderer really was.
There were a lot of colorful characters, but the one that interested me the most was Dane.
Dane is a wounded officer who finds himself interested in the murder mystery while he is trying to get the strength in his leg back.
The overall mystery was pretty good, and I would recommend giving her books a try if you like an old fashioned who done it.
An extremely convoluted plot.
And shallow.
More like caricatures than characters: the bossy, domineering, PITA mother with the 'bad heart'; the 'golden girl' sister so beautiful she can marry a gazillionaire - and who is as vapid/shallow/selfish as any character you've read; the good-looking man-about-town brother with the drinking problem; the mysterious stranger who rescues our heroine.It's an okay book if you're on vacation somewhere...stuck inside from a monsoon...with no access to movies, a gym, internet, music, or anything else...it'll do 'til the rain stops.
This is the first mystery I've read by Mary Roberts Rinehart, but I will be looking for more.
The main character, Carol Spencer, is asked by her mother to open their summer house in Maine, when her maid discovers the charred remains of a woman in the upstairs linen closet.
A former federal agent, Greg, is staying nearby while recuperating from injuries suffered in the war, and involves himself in solving the crime, with a lot of help from Carol.I liked that Carol is bright, and not afraid to show her intelligence during the investigation.
I also enjoyed the mystery itself, which is intermingled with the romance developing between Greg and Carol.I will be reading more my Mary Roberts Rinehart.
The Yellow Room is set mostly in Maine in the last year of World War II.
The war does not enter in to the mystery except that it has brought about a change in society that makes it hard to know a man's background and reliability--which gives the author a chance to throw in more red herrings.
Helping the young lady solve the murder case is a wounded war veteran whose background is suspect.This tale has all Mary Roberts Rinehart's skill and charm and fun.
Set during WWII, main character Carol Spencer's fiance is missing, presumed dead (though his father refuses to acknowledge that and continually traps Carol for long talks about his son), her alcoholic brother is a decorated hero but at war, her self-involved sister is no help with their invalid mother, and now said-mother wants to open up their summer home without even half of their normal staff and trying to live on rationing.
there's the dead body that turns up in the home.
But there is a Major in town on leave who seems to want to help.
