https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/764436.The_Berenstain_Bears_Learn_About_Strangers
This duality is present not just in the stranger/non-stranger pairing, but also in the contrast between Sister and Brother.
The authors highlight the crucial difference between the siblings as being their adherence to social norms.
This text is ripe for a feminist critique analyzing the relationships between the gendered bears (Papa and Brother vs.
The second duality examined by this text is the relationship between madness and reason.
The authors suggest that following a strict set of rules in which a negative is always assumed leads directly to insanity.
Despite this subtle analysis, the book is only moderately satisfying.
That doesn't mean that books need to hit children over the head with these important life lessons.The Berenstain Bears series of books runs the gamut from entertaining stories of a brother and sister growing up to blatantly obvious and forced lessons.
The Berenstain Bears Learn About Strangers is in the unfortunate obvious and forced end of the spectrum.
The book paints all adult strangers in the same brush, making Sister Bear see monsters in all the adults she meets.
This book does a huge disservice to children unfortunate enough to read this story.
Very wordy if you're thinking of reading to small kids. My 4-year-old got it pretty well, but she also really wanted story time, so she was paying attention. I doubt my son (1.5 years) would have any interest in it beyond tearing at the pages. It does teach an important lesson though, which is why we bought it as both of our kids are very much friendly social butterflies. Hopefully this will help teach them caution as they grow.
This is the 18th Berenstain Bears book that I have read. This book teaches about strangers and I think that it does a very good job. I especially liked the safety tips at the end of the book. I think that this will be my final Berenstain Bears book. I'm sort of getting sick of the bears altogether. There's nothing wrong with them and there's really only so much bear perfection a person can withstand.
I realize that most Berenstain books are written to teach a morally driven or safety-conscious lesson and I have no problems with that concept--in fact that is precisely one of the reasons that I love Dr. Seuss stories. However, this is not the format in which to take itself too seriously and "stranger safety" isn't a theme that can be humorized, so it just doesn't work, other than as an awkward introduction to a well intended discussion.
Brother and Sister Bear are out with Papa and Brother starts talking to strangers. Pap warns them about the danger of strangers. This terrifies them and scares them away from all strangers. In the end Mama talks some common sense into the kids and tells them what to look out for. I would use this book in my classroom to teach about stranger danger. I could use it in a thematic unit about safety. I really enjoyed this book because it teaches a usable skill.
Not a great book about stranger danger in the least.First of all, while the topic is important, what it doesn't do, is reassure a child that there's safety in the world anywhere at all except perhaps behind the closed doors of their own home.
Instead we're leaving the child scared of the world, and thinking twice about going outside.Where is the mention of the "safe" adults - finding a policeman for example when feeling threatened.
Or in going to another trusted adult when safety is compromised (talking to a teacher, or parent, or other person in authority).
As others have noted, this book focuses on Stranger Danger, not mentioning adults who may be in or close to the family or in positions of authority. But within this sphere, it gets across the importance of wariness without being frightening. My four-year-old's asked to read it several times since the first introduction and asked good questions based upon the story, so it's probably best used as a good starting point for many conversations rather than expecting it to cover the gamut of important information.
I love the Berenstain Bears. They were a reading stable as a child. I'm currently working on no talking to strangers with my two year old (which is a big thing because she is so chatty that I don't exist anymore- not good.)After I read this book to her, she walked around telling everyone "No Strangers." I don't think it worked so well because she still walks up to strangers and talks to them so we'll try another approach. Good for older kids, though.
A Must ReadThis is a very informative book and discusses the essential reasons why children should be wary of strangers without having them afraid. I also really like the rules at the end of the book. If followed, it will definitely decrease the probability of a child being unknowingly put in danger. This is definitely a discussion worth having with children.
I really like the way this book presented strangers. It was serious enough that children understand that they need to be careful but also addressed the fact that you don't have to be afraid to live. My kindergarten students seemed to really like the book and connect to it.
This was a good one for my child who doesn't know a stranger
My 5 year old said he learned something from this book ("don't do anything with strangers."), but it's boring. It is a little heavy-handed.
It is not easy to write about subject like this.
The Berenstain Bear books have always been a favorite of mine growing up. I love how they have books for many of children's first experiences in life. This book does teach a good lesson to children on how to be cautious around strangers but also not to be afraid of them all of the time. There are many words on each page and the length of the book might be too long for the younger children; so I would say second grade would benefit most from this book.
Stan and Jan Berenstain do a great job of explaining the danger of strangers on a kid-friendly level.
The book begins by talking about how friendly Sister Bear was to everyone, even people she didn't know.
Papa Bear, with best interests at heart, explains to Sister the dangers of strangers.
Mama notices this apprehension in Sister Bear, so she decides to explain strangers differently than Papa.
I think that this is a great kid-friendly stranger safety book.
Mama's apple metaphor is something that would be so simple, yet profound that could be used to teach kids about strangers.
The book also ignores the fact that children are far more likely to be harmed and/or abused by people that they know than they are by strangers.
This type of story lets everyone to conveniently continue to ignore the problem of abuse of children by people familiar to them Convenient to everyone except the abused child of course, is being abused likely by someone close to home (if not in their home).
There is a double whammy as this abused child is now also harmed by a system that teaches 'no, no, someone who is supposed to love you is not the problem.
Sister is always very comfortable around strangers and is always eager to talk to them and meet them.
He shows her headlines about children getting kidnapped and strangers being bad people, sufficiently scaring her from ever talking to strangers again.
When Mama sees how scared of all people Sister does not know, she decides to intervene and tell her that not all strangers are criminals, but still to be cautious.
When Sister and Brother are in town one day, a stranger invites brother into his car.
This book has a tremendous moral because in this day and age children should not trust strangers.
This Berenstain Bears story is all about facts on strangers.
Mama and Papa Bear teach Brother and Sister Bear about strangers.
This book belongs in the children's genre because of it's large amount of illustrations that contribute to the meaning of the story.
The theme of learning about strangers is evident throughout the whole book, so it could be used as a way to teach students about the topic.
After reading the story aloud, the class could summarize what they learned while the teacher records.
This would help with comprehension.
This would help with comprehension skills and writing skills.
Sister is always willing to talk to strangers and approach them until Papa tells her that strangers can be kidnappers or killers.
Sister then proceeds to be terrified of strangers until her parents talk to her again and convince her that not all strangers are bad, but just be aware of them.
She then saves her brother from a potential kidnapper because she is so aware of possible danger.
A parent or teacher can talk to their child about the dangers of strangers, but reading this book might resonate more with them because it is light hearted and a fun story to follow along.
This book shows sister bear who is very extroverted and talks to everyone she comes across (just like my girl.) Brother advises her not to talk to people she doesn't know and she wonders why not.
Papa explains that there are terrible people who do terrible things to little bear cubs.
Then Mama explains that most folks are good, no matter what they look like, but some people who look normal are really very bad.
Sister feels more confident and even uses her new information about strangers to protect her brother.
Sister is always very comfortable around strangers and is always eager to talk to them and meet them.
He shows her headlines about children getting kidnapped and strangers being bad people, sufficiently scaring her from ever talking to strangers again.
When Mama sees how scared Sister is of everyone, she decides to intervene and tell her that not all strangers are criminals, but still to be cautious.
When Sister and Brother are in town one day, a stranger invites brother into his car.
This book has a tremendous moral because in this day and age children should not trust strangers.
Brother Bear has always been more of the cautious one and Sister Bear is more of a free spirit and loves to talk to everyone, this book teaches kids that you shouldn't talk to strangers.
It also teaches us that you can't tell if a person is bad or good just by their appearance.This book is intended for early elementary students.
I think this book is a good fit for the primary grades however, the reading may be a little difficult for first graders to read on their own.
The Berenstain Bear books always have valuable lessons in their stories that I think children can relate to.
This book discusses the dangers of strangers.
It seems more and more recently there are more predators in our world and it is prudent to warn your children about the imminent threat.
The Berenstain's show interactions between the children and strangers and the proper way to respond if you are approached by someone you do not know.Teaching your class a lesson on being safe when around strangers could give you peace of mind to know they will make safe decisions when they are out of your classroom.
Some parents may not fully warn their kids so it is prudent to inform them about the dangers of strangers.

Мечетата Беранстийн са истинска класика сред американските детски книжки. Класика като Доктор Сюс и неговите римувани небивалици. Класика като Любопитния Джордж на Маргрет и Х.А.Рей. Или като голямото червено куче Клифърд на Норман Бридуел. И точно като тези класики, Мечетата Беранстийн са (почти) непознати на българските деца. Време е да променим това! Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
This one was really funny because I remember when my mother taught me to never talk to strangers and what could happen.
I think I was to friendly as a kid and never really lsitened but this book opened my eyes to what could have happened.
I didn’t think everyone around me was going to snatch me up like they did in this book but the mother really set them straight.
I loved the mom’s reaction in this book she was kind of like what the hell are my kids doing that is not what we taught them.
I remember reading the Berenstain Bears when I was in elementary school and was shocked to see it in the library today.
However, I was so pleased!
I love these books.
This one is about brother and sister bear being aware of their surroundings and strangers.
Children hear all the time "don't talk to strangers" but this book might be a good example on how to handle these situations.
One of the best parts about being a child is being naive.
Often times they can forget that life can be dangerous.
This would be a great way to address this in a light-hearted way.
I'm a big fan of the Berenstain Bears books because:1. The authors cover a broad range of real-life issues that kids deal with2. They explain the problem3. Then they give some great solutions to the problemThe "Strangers" books is one of my favorites because it can be a delicate topic. You don't want to scare your kids to death of people they don't know, but you need them to understand that they can't go take candy from a stranger. This book explains that balance in an age-appropriate way.
This book shows many topics to use with like family, bears, safety, and animals. Teaches not to talk to stangers. Also it teaches a usable skill and can apply everyday. Learning Extension Activity With this story I would make a memory game showing that there are some bad strangers and some that are good. A good stranger would be like a police man or a teacher and talk to them why they would be the good. An example of a bad stranger would be just a man in the paark, they shouldn't talk to anyone they don't know.
