https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574027.Rainbow_Cottage
Rainbow CottageGrace L HillThere are 2 huge reasons why i really like reading Grace's books.
Her books are right between a strict Victorian and spoiled contemporary romance.
Rainbow Cottage had so much action, drama, prejudice, love, and spiritual uplifting going on that you keep turning pages without realizing it.Shelia is going to see her grandma while running away from a wicked man.
Little did they know that they were cut from the same cloth and were meant for each other.
I liked their growing romance, Grace showed his tormented heart in this book too.
I started out not liking this very much. I thought the opening wasn't as good as it could have been. I was mistaken. It was perfect for this book. The message was presented perfectly all throughout this book. GLH did an amazing job with the spiritul content in this book and I found myself re-reading portions sevral times, just to make sure I cought all she had to say on the matter. Espechilly her thoughts on Shela paying her back.
I think this was my favorite Grace Livingston Hill so far! I fell in love with the house, Rainbow Cottage, and the grandmother, Mrs. Ainslee. :)
Hott Synopsis:Grandmother Ainslee is still distraught that her son ran off under mysterious circumstances and married a cabaret singer all of those years ago but when the mysterious and orphaned young Sheila appears on her doorstep she’s shocked.
Sheila is being hounded by one of her father’s goons and neither she nor Grandmother can figure out why.Visit this sweet little cottage by the sea and visit with Grandmother, Sheila, some distrustful cousins, and some heroic neighbors in this summertime favorite, Rainbow Cottage.Hott Review:What I liked: I’ve adored this story each time I’ve read it.
It’s a perfect sweet romance for an afternoon by the pool.
A wonderful, beautiful Christian fiction read.
This is a highly recommended book.I chose this writing because I have always loved grace Livingston Hills books.
I would remit I would recommend this book to anyone who loves good clean Christian fiction with mystery thrown in for good measure.
I love the way things get resolved in the end.
You don’t find reading in words this way as much anymore and I love the style of reading.
There is something charming about the rags to riches stories that Grace Livingston hill rights.
She always manages to keep things simple as well and very wholesome.
Most I remember them being uplifting having good things happening out of bad situations.
I was frequently surprised in story lines that almost all of them were set in the 20's until I learned more about the Author and that it was the era that she lived in.
Which brought on a different perspective on reading her books as though I was becoming a part of that era and learning about that time frame.
A good read where right wins over wrong, good over bad and the white hats rule the roost.
I found this book while wandering the library. I was curious as to why there was such a collection of Ms. Hill's books, given that most of them (including this one) lacked covers and in general there is not a lot of fiction from the 1930s in the library. Were these books so special, that the library would continue to circulate them after all these years? After looking on goodreads, it seems it is a depression-era Christian romance novel. So. I'll post a review when I'm done!
I honestly don't know why I like this one. The main character is so frigging spineless - maybe because she's been somewhat abused/neglected - but dear god is she a simp. There's something nice about it, though, the grandma taking her in and giving her a beautiful home and meeting the handsome stranger...you know. It's pretty fluff and I like it.
Never disappointedYou can never go wrong with a GLH story. This was another great read. Heroines and heroes may not always have depth of character, but they always come through with integrity of character. Wish we could go back to this era.
One of my favorites from Grace Livingston Hill .. this was a re-read, but wonderful again, as always! Lovely romance, with a Christian message, and beautiful imagery.2-26-16 Once again easily one of my favorites. A fairy tale for sure, but a fun one to read.
Five stars!!!!!I love GHL books especially the romance this one is a great book! It isn't as romancey as I like but Sheila is a strong independent girl and this is definitely a favorite!
I think this book was meant to try to turn someone to God. The underlying story was very interesting. The preaching didn't bother me but I can see how it would be too much for some people. Overall not a bad story about redemption and God's grace and protection.
Loved the rainbow theme throughout!
I always love her stories even if they are quaint and outdated. The moral and lessons in them is always aplicable to today's life.
This was a quick, cute little read about a girl looking for family and meaning in life. She finds that and more in this romantic tale.
Typical of this author - boy meets girl, falls in love and gets married. A little sappy.
Love her books.
Enjoyed the story and the setting. A good, easy read.
Stilteddialogue knocks one star off the rating of this book.
Usually, GLH’s writing has much more of a genuine feel to the interpersonal relationships.
The descriptive passages were lovely and it was easy to sit on the porch and smell the flowers while watching and listening to the waves of the ocean.
I’ve lived at the beach and those very same plants, colors and smells adorned my home, aaahhh...There’s not a lot to this little book: it’s clean, a tiny bit of romance and a smattering of family strife to work out.
Not a favorite, but still enjoyable and with an always timely spiritual message.
Reviewed from a NetGalley copy. Thank you, Barbour Publishing, Inc.!
