https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311123.Footsteps_in_the_Dark
for those fans of cozy mysteries, particularly the ones featuring goofy aristocrats stuck in an eerie mansion with murder in the background and light banter constantly in the foreground, please ignore the 2 stars.
haunting and terrorizing them is the dreaded, maybe-a-ghost Monk, who apparently has a lot of death on his hands.
and who is this mysterious Mr. Strange - a potential lover or a dreadful villain lying in wait?I have no doubt that Heyer knows how to write and it is hard for me to put a finger on what left me cold.
It is books like this that cause me to remember why I love mysteries so much. I had so much fun reading this. It was a little like reading a grown up version of a Nancy Drew, only with some Agatha Christie-like elements.Think:   meets   and you have an idea of what I'm talking about.Footsteps in the Dark is, I believe, Heyer's first attempt to pen a murder mystery, and though some would argue that it lacks the polish of her later mysteries, I think it's the best of the eight I've read so far. I
and you have an idea of what I'm talking about.Footsteps in the Dark is, I believe, Heyer's first attempt to pen a murder mystery, and though some would argue that it lacks the polish of her later mysteries, I think it's the best of the eight I've read so far.
Instead, a good majority of the "detecting" is done by a foursome consisting of 3 siblings (Peter, Margaret and Celia) and Celia's spouse, Charles.
I would have enjoyed seeing Aunt Bosanquet in another Heyer book - she was that good.
They were a fun set and I loved Charles and the aunt Bosanquet in particular, but overall her cast was miles away from the wonderful characters of her Regency novels.
But still, it was a really great book, and contrary to popular opinion, I would recommend it to cozy-mystery newbies, because chances are if you haven't really anything else to compare it to, you'll find it wonderful.
My point is, if you enjoy mystery stories about hauntings and amateur detective antics but find Scooby-Doo and Co. annoying as hell, I recommend picking up Georgette Heyer's Footsteps in the Dark as soon as possible.
It's like Heyer's preemptive strike against Scooby-Doo and his associated nonsense - the mystery centers around a haunted house with a menacing, very physical ghost known as the Monk, our detectives are quippy (but actually clever) young people who blunder their way around the mystery but manage to be sensible about things (while still getting separated at one point, but still), and the reason behind the haunting is one of the three I listed above.
In this case, sisters Celia and Margaret and their brother Peter inherit a large old home where they used to visit their aunt as children.
They stay there on vacation, along with Celia's husband Charles and a widowed aunt (of the sensible rather than skittish variety).
Margaret could have been a really strong character except Heyer decided to make her fall in love and go all silly.
It wasn't that complex as mysteries go, but it was an amusing little read -- especially so soon after The Reluctant Widow, which is practically the same story only with an historical setting and slightly more romance.
I enjoy how she brings her light, engaging tone, snappy dialogue, mayhem and romps, and quirky characters into her murder mysteries like she did her historical romance.
I'm not sure exactly the time frame, but I think this one was 20's era.The setting was English country house/village and centered around a family inheriting an old estate that was once an abbey that is thought to be haunted.
But the Fortescue clan remain and try their luck at solving the mystery.I love this type of set up for a mystery- creepy house, weird happenings, and lots of characters and possibilities.
3 1/2 Stars  I must say this was better than my last Heyer mystery! The last, No Wind of Blame, was dull and yawnifying. (Yes, I just coined that). But this one was a great improvement. The characters were more interesting and a bit more happens. Nonetheless, it's still a bit slow and there were moments where I just wanted things to happen FASTER. Peter, Margaret, Ceila and her husband Chas have inherited an old run down priory. They are enchanted with the idea that it has a history with a resi
The ghost is named, 'The Monk' and several people claim to have seen him walking the priory's grounds at night.
I admit other books have held the suspense for a plot like this better (Enid Blyton's The Island of Adventure, anyone?
I know it's a kids book, but still), and I think that with a bit more of the 'happenings' spread out it would have been better.
Maybe more discovery of the mystery earlier on would have been better for me?
:) Oh, as a side not, I really liked Margaret and her side story.
Heyer apparently did not want it to be re-published so it can be presumed that she wasn't that keen on it, or at least that she recognised its weaknesses.
And weaknesses it has.
However, it exhibits some of the classic Heyer strengths: strong dialogue (albeit not quite as witty as in later mysteries), a nice sense of place and time and a predictable but nevertheless sweet romance.The four star rating I have given this novel has been determined somewhat idiosyncratically.
Two stars are for the mystery itself.
The net result is a novel I liked very much.
Some Bright Young Things inherit the Priory which has been sitting empty since their relative has died.
After they move in, they hear from the villagers (and their butler) that the house is haunted by The Monk.
It does not help that the house has spooky cellars and creaking stairs but no electricity or phone.
Of course, none of them believe in ghosts - but the fun begins as they start to hear strange noises and see weird things in the dark and their aunt decides they must have a seance.
Georgette Heyer suppressed some of her early books, presumably because she wasn't happy with them.
These include Simon the Coldheart ( deadly dull) The Great Roxhythe (unintentionally very funny!) & her "contemporaries" (Helen was so terrible I feel no desire to seek out the other three!) I believe GH also suppressed this one for a time, so I approached this read with some trepidation.
(hide spoiler)] & the romance was very poorly done.Worth a read, but I read most Heyers multiple times.
I'm unlikely to bother reading this one again.
The heirs, along with their spinster aunt and the husband of one of the women, arrive at the country house only to find out that it’s haunted.
Of course, this is all taken to be a local legend…until things begin to go bump in the night, shadowy figures prowl the grounds in the evenings and there’s a murder.It was an enjoyable read and moved at a good pace.
Most of the clues were available to the reader but the connections were left to the reader to figure out.
I plan to continue reading these Country House Mysteries as I find them quite entertaining and a good mystery.Rating 4 Stars
I am sorry to say I am giving up on this.
I gave it a good go (185 pages) but I'm just not feeling it, basically, well, its torture.
I know!
Cest la vie.A side note: The print size is rather HUGE in these GH mysteries.
A strange complaint probably but I find it very awkward reading larger type, it makes my eyes bug.
(My eyes like to "sweep in a paragraph" and large print makes me read line by line.
That sounds weird, I know).Anyway!
I will try another GH (just not at the moment) because its probably fluke that I didn't like this one.
I allowed an early prejudice against Heyer's mysteries to prevent me from reading most of them at all, yet I found this very pleasant and entertaining. While the characters were not as well developed as those in her historical novels (and, indeed, seemed a bit cliched), the book compares favorably with some Ngaio Marsh and Patricia Wentworth titles.
Nee. Nicht mein Buch...Das Cover hat mich sehr angesprochen und auch die Inhaltsangabe verspricht Grusel. Doch leider hatte ich meine Probleme mit dem Schreibstil, den Charakteren und auch der fehlenden Spannung. Ein Gruselfaktor kam nur auf, wenn ich dieses Buch im dunkeln und in völliger Stille gelesen habe. Doch unter 'Gruselfaktor' ist da zu verstehen, dass mich meine Gedanken, und nicht das Buch gruselten. Leider konnte mich das Buch nicht überzeugen und so vergebe ich hier 2 Sterne. Die Idee hinter der Story ist nämlich gar nicht so ungruselig. An der Umsetzung hat es leider gehapert..
More than a little silly, but a fun and mildly diverting read.
Like Hannah, I kept harking back to my childhood favorite Nancy Drew and The Hidden Staircase I loved all the 1930 period details, the hidden passages and Gothic goings on, but the plot was clunky and the four main characters never really came alive for me.
Nancy Drew would never have been as foolish as the Celia and Margaret!I'm definitely planning to read more of Georgette Heyer's mysteries--this was her first and my expert GR friends say the later ones are better.
Group read with Georgette Heyer Fans for August.
When the police prove less than useless, the brothers-in-law begin sleuthing on their own.Admittedly, I didn't figure out who the villain was until the end; however, most readers will be able to eliminate the prime suspect with one-third of the novel to go.
In other words, the books that you've read that more expertly handle this same plot probably took a page from Footsteps in the Dark; for that reason, I'll add an extra star.Heyer's no Dame Agatha Christie, but some of her mysteries rise to four-star levels.
What a great crime novel! I am a long-standing Georgette Heyer fan. I love her books. Her stories were always so incredibly well drawn, her characters unforgettable. She is one of the very few authors with many, many books in one genre who didn't have "types" in the sense of recurring schemes or personalities. And this classic and clean crime novel is no exception.  The dialogues and the cheerful sense of humor made it very entertaining.The characters were drawn through their actions, their speeches and their little mannerisms.
Until I came here to write these notes I was more or less decided that this'd be an end to my experiments with Heyer's detections, but then I noticed a remark in GR-friend Bev Hankins's review of Footsteps in the Dark:"Footsteps in the Dark is a very welcome return to Georgette Heyer's usual breezy, comic mystery style--far removed from the dark and brooding Penhallow which I just recently finished."So I may -- pace Bev!
Actually, it was a listening funk, since it was only affecting my audiobooks.
For most of the book, it’s really more of a ghost/haunted house story, a genre that doesn’t interest me.
Well, I don’t think it’s a spoiler to say that that’s total BS.
Once all is revealed, if you look back and think about it, there’s no reason not to have revealed that information—except that it would most likely have shortened the plot.The characters are as appealing as Heyer’s usually are, but the story is so unsatisfying that I can’t recommend this one.
Lemme just invite a vacuum salesman in and have him roam the halls unattended (hide spoiler)]Will almost certainly finish because Georgette Heyer is someone I feel I should at least give a fair hearing to and it's a pretty easy read but blurgh.
There are very few clues throughout the novel and so instead we get a summary right near the end from the person who's *actually* been solving the mystery.
But it makes the main characters feel even more pointless and marginal.
In general just really really poor - yes, there's some satisfaction at the end, but the characters, setting, mystery, plotting, romance, descriptions etc...
Their aunt, Mrs. Bosanquet, is convinced The Monk is an actual ghost,Charles and Peter are skeptical.
Despite repeated warnings, Charles won't leave until he solves the mystery.I had a hard time getting to the story at first.
Then, as they kept getting closer to solving the mystery and yet not coming any closer, I got sucked in.
I figured out the identity of the Monk pretty easily.(view spoiler)[It's always:a) the person you least expectb) the person who knows everythingc)The Col. wouldn't say where he was stationed in India and that's usually a huge clue that someone is lying.
I've read a few other mysteries by Heyer and have enjoyed them all so far.
The stories about the Monk are enhanced by the various locals with whom they begin to associate; the Colonel (their neighbor), the strange French artist, Duval, the eccentric moth hunter, Mr Titmarsh and the owner of the nearby inn, Mr. Wilkes.
As the story advances, ghostly sighting take place and people recommend that the Fortescues should leave the Priory.
I really enjoyed all of the characters peopling the story, especially the Fortescues, straight-forward and humorous.
I continue to enjoy Heyer's mysteries and will continue to read them.
3 siblings (Peter, Margaret, and Celia) inherit an old country house from a distant relation and, along with Celia's husband Charles and an old aunt, decide to take an extended vacation.
Determined not to be scared away, the siblings set out to solve the mystery, but someone, or thing, is definitely trying to get rid of them.
What saves the book from being utterly slow are the characters, particularly the three leading men.
All the characters resemble the usual Heyer-mold but since I usually read her Regency, I particularly enjoyed seeing them in a 'modern' setting.
Definitely not a modern story but amusing if you like the country house/small village type of story with all the characters this type of book is peppered with.
Heyer has given us just about every character type we could want to make this story interesting, even a stranger to the village with the last name of Strange.
Footsteps in the Dark is a breezy light weight mystery that will be perfect for readers who want to take a small time-out from this modern world and step back in time to England between the world wars.
This book is being reissued in January 2019, most likely with a new cover.
Georgette Heyer weaves a wonderfully fun mystery here.
Abandoned for some time, and newly inherited by three siblings, Peter, Celia and Margaret, the "Priory" makes a perfectly spooky setting for this cozy mystery.
Actually, I was pretty sure I knew who the villain was but it was fun to sit back and enjoy the gasps at the reveal.
In fact, the reveal left me wondering if this book inspired the "meddling kids" bit at the end of all the Scooby-Doo mysteries.
You know, the bit where they unmask the villain at the end of every episode??
It is really important to remember this is a piece of juvenilia; in fact Heyer suppressed subsequent editions for some years.
If you want to read a Heyer mystery, this is most certainly not the one to start with.
However, if you enjoy Buchan and early film noir, where blood isn't split, and wonderful Oxbridge accents everywhere, then this will be a fun book for you.I did guess the evil doer quite early on & so played along until Heyer decided to reveal their identity - almost to the very end in fact.
A great piece of fluff & something some of the new International Bestsellers could learn from
This story took a bit for me to get into, but I still marvel at Heyer's writing.
She stretches out her descriptions, in an almost CS Lewis kind of way.
She is a whiz at dialoging about nothing.
She captures people's normal way of life and the things people say everyday so well.
Heyer knows her corners to cut in stories.
Her 20's, 30's dialog is very good too.
Mr. Titmarsh, Charles, and Aunt Lillian had the best lines in the story.
I think, even if you only love Heyer' regencies, this is a good read of hers.
Not my favorite, but still witty. Three adult siblings inherit a rambling old house called The Priory, which has a reputation for being haunted. At first they're excited about fixing it up, but pretty soon strange (perhaps ghostly??) goings-on begin to make them nervous. When a murder occurs, they can't help but wonder if there really is a malevolent ghost after all! I didn’t find the mystery as engaging as others, but there's an aunt who occasionally comes out with comments that made me shriek with laughter. She's worth reading the book for.
On this reread (my 4th?), I have decided that this is really 3 stars not 4 so I am downgrading it. I still like this romantic suspense type mystery but the romance angle in this one is pretty slapdash. So surprising for a Heyer book too!
On this reread (my 4th?), I have decided that this is really 3½ stars not 4 so I am downgrading it. I still like this romantic suspense type mystery but the romance angle in this one is pretty slapdash. So surprising for a Heyer book too!
"Schritte im Dunkeln" von Georgette Heyer bekommt von mir 3 Sterne.Der Roman beginnt direkt im Piory, also dem Gebäude, in dem sich unsere Geschichte abspielt.
Somit wird dem Leser auch direkt erklärt, wer die Figuren sind,warum sie da sind und was es mit dem Priory auf sich hat.
Es bedarf als keiner langen Einleitung, die dem Leser alles vorkaut, sondern ein gut geschriebener Anfang reicht.Die tatsächliche Geschichte beginnt mit Interaktionen zwischen den Figuren und wir lernen sie dadurch alle gleich kennen.
Man bekommt einen Überblick über den Cast und auch eine grobe Einsicht in ihre Charaktere.
