https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/546725.The_Song_of_the_Dodo
David Quammen (whom I have been lucky enough to have drinks with...yes, I'm totally name-dropping here) is an absolutely amazing story teller who seamlessly weaves an engaging narrative of travel adventure, scientific research, and conservationism.
Not only does Quammen enlighten the reader about current biogeography, state of the environment, and evolutionary biology research, but he's personally interviewed and, in many cases, traveled with these scientist, so adds a sense of travel narrative to his voice.
Quammen explains about "island biogeography in a timeof extinction" using personal stories about island research (islands are hotbeds for evolution) to explain mechanisms of evolution and extinction.Though it's long, people could just read the first chapter for an intro andthen go from there time-depending.
At first, I was pleased about this--if it's a good read give me more of it!--but as I went I grew more and more disappointed.No, the length isn't really important, except that I feel a fine editor could have cut this into a 4-star book with ease.
Quammen tells a compelling narrative of interesting, oft-overlooked biologists such as Alfred Wallace, whose story alone was worth the read.
Editor!The author is great, GREAT, when in the middle of a chapter on some historical biologist, cutting through the bushy undergrowth to a brilliant scientific discovery.
His tone and attitude is so much accusatory and "chicken little" that what particles of real information that I can get about island isolation and other historic evolutionary boundaries, is lost within his sarcasm and blaming.
And that is that line of demarcation between species types that runs between those two islands placed in that line near east end of the general Java area.
As if humans should all just take numbers in some lottery fashion and commit suicide by 75% and then the rest should go back to live in caves- so that no other species has a "disadvantage".
Too much angry ire to sift through here in order to get to the observational science, IMHO.
Late in the book, Quammen describes a climb to the nest of a Mauritius kestrel: "When I'm thirty feet up, a tree branch flicks off my glasses, which drop to the ground.
I gaze out at the panorama--the forested canyon below us, the deer ranch beyond, and the cane plantation beyond that, all spreading westward for five miles to the crescent of beach and then the great turquoise plane of the Indian Ocean." (562-3) It's Quammen's excitement and sensitivty that inspire the reader to continue and to care, to take notice of humanity's influence: carving nature into islands, resulting in astonishing rates of extinction and ecosystem decay.
But Quammen urges us to cling to hope, not despair, because "besides being fruitless it's far less exciting than hope, however slim." (636)
This book gets high marks for its large scope covering many of the notable species extinctions and current vulnerable island populations and creating a convincing link between the two.
This book does well when the author talks about the history of the animal species and those naturalists who did the early work like Darwin and Wallace.
Like Cahill, the author wrote articles for Outside magazine for many years and he seems quite knowledgeable about flora and fauna to be sure.
The author absolutely proved the basic premise of the book, the effects of island species vulnerability and variations, within the first 200 to 300 pages.
I read it as I crossed the Rockies and really got a feel for how important the railway was - in a way that I didn't in history class.The subject is the ecology of islands but it is much more than that.
One species of snake described in the book lived only in riffles or fast moving water in a few rivers.
Breaking it into farmland or even crossing it with highways will significantly reduce it's usefulness to large-bodied wildlife.If you are interested in travelling to almost any island, this book will tell you about that island.
One of my all-time favorite books (this was a re-read) by my favorite natural history author. Anyone who likes Stephen Jay Gould or Howard Zinn style writing will enjoy David Quammen. Not only is it beautifully written, it intertwines stories of the development of the theory of evolution with modern scientific research and travel, and serves as a call to arms to save the last great wild places.
Looking for those answers fed the new science.Conjecture about reasons for speciation and extinction have shifted in context and conceptual framework over time.
If there is a single lesson to be learned, it is that speciation and extinction are not simple processes.A conceptual focus of his book is the species-area relationship.
Fortunately, Quammen focuses on the implication of Preston's conclusion, rather than the mathematical model: “ '...it is not possible to preserve in a State or National Park a complete replica on a small scale of the fauna and flora of a much larger area.' ” (Chapter 109) Why?
I think a good editor could have probably cut this tome down to 623 pages, which is my backhanded way of saying that "TSOTD" is a monumental book on natural history, well worth the time you need to invest into all 178 chapters.
But the real power in the book is his exploration into the development of ecology, basically beginning when the science found its chops, i.e. the data it had been collecting was actually put to use.
By the end of the book we have a real sense of just how endangered endangered species really are.
This came highly recommended.
And Island biogeography has been important in the development of ecological theory.The first part of the book discusses Alfred Wallace; it's very well written and I enjoyed it.
I began to part with the author when he spoke disparagingly about a simple first-order equation.
He claimed he didn't need to understand it.
I realized that he didn't.
Things went downhill after that.Two flaws.
Quammen doesn't seem to grasp the significance of ecosystems.
The fauna (and flora) he discusses are interacting members.
Secondly, the doctrine of landscape ecology would take him a lot further than he was able to go.
Wildlife biologist and author Aldrin Mallari lent me a copy of this staggering book after knowing I had read "Wild Thoughts From Wild Places." I think I learned more about biogeography from reading this book than talking to a dozen biologists. The final image of the last Dodo on earth hunkering down in the jungle is haunting. Whenever I hear a Dutch ecologist try to lecture me about how Filipinos are ruining their environment, Quammen's descriptions of how the Dutch sailors clubbed and hunted to extinction the Dodo always pop to mind. But I keep silent.
I finished it! (Further thoughts coming soon)
It asks questions about the distribution of various animal species and uses island biogeography to understand extinction patterns.
Follows the history of Wallace and Darwin and other early scientists and the use of islands to find the origin of species from other species.
Some other interesting facts were:-older, larger continental island have more biodiversity than younger, smaller or volcanic islands (pretty clear)-isolation, speciation and dispersal are all parts of island biogeography-Wallace lost his entire collection from 4 years in the Amazon in a boat fire on his way home, and funded his trip by sending samples back to England to be sold, which gave him an eye for intraspecific variation.
A great book about ecology and travelThis is unquestionably the finest book I've read that explains biogeography and population ecology in clear, concise English for the average intelligent person interested in the natural world who lacks a background in science.
Much to my amazement, Quammen fully understands the implications of MacArthur's and Wilson's theory of island biogeography, encompassing such diverse subjects as determining the appropriate size of wildlife refuges to studying cycles of mass extinction in the marine invertebrate fossil record.
O. Wilson as scientists and people, pointing out the importance of Wallace's and MacArthur's work towards our understanding of biogeography and indeed, of biological diversity.
This book could actually have had many titles that would have been equally mysterious to an environmental layman like me: 'The History of Biogeography and What That Actually Is' or 'Great Men With Controversial Theories of Biodiversity, and Other Such Stuff' or 'The Inevitable Spiral Toward Species Extinction - And That Includes All Species' or even 'How We Came to Value Modern Conservation Science or Something Like That.' But I began reading Quammen's story anyway because I knew from his earlier book that he was incredibly informative in a casual, "favorite professor" sort of way.
I didn’t enjoy this book very much. Don’t get me wrong, I don’t think it’s poorly written, I just personally don’t have enough of an interest in island biogeography to enjoy reading 700 pages of it. I ended up deciding to slog through this book instead of just putting it down. There are definitely a few interesting insights on species extinction but overall I found this a bit dense and drawn-out unless you have a very specific interest on the topic.
Mooi boek dat vlotter leest dan veel natuurdocumentaires wegkijken. Toch is het jammer dat er geen foto's tekeningen bij zaten van de genoemde dieren.Ik heb blijkbaar een groot deel van relevante discussies gemist op het gebied van ecologie en natuurbehoud, ik ben nu redelijk bij denk ik van vragen en dillemma's die er gespeeld hebben.
I have a liberal arts degree. My little sister is studying conservation biology. She gave me this book and it interested me so much that I want to go back to school and study science now.
I could have read The Brothers Karamazov, Don Quixote and Moby Dick in the same amount of time.
The Song of the Dodo was given to me by someone who reads a heck of a lot faster than I do.
This is an animal book - I was told there wasn't going to be any math).
The SLOSS (single large or several small) debate - i.e. what size of habitat will sustain a species - could have been pared down.
Which is better Single Large or Several Small?
It can take dozens of pages to make a subtle conceptual point, and then several other sets of dozens of pages to put together a major concept, like why many island species have no natural fear of predators even though the species is a ground-dwelling bird.The chronicle aspect and the lack of continuity from chapter to chapter are the main reasons why I recommend reading this book in short spurts over a long-ish period of time.
Some great writing and even greater examples of biodiversity are at times hidden by self-indulgent writing (at times I wonder of Quammen saw himself more of a travel writer in the Bill Bryson mode) ...well described in other reviews. Having said that, I am grateful for all the great examples of biogeography in this book and plan to go and read up more about the tenrecs right now
If you can get over the long & overly-descriptive parts, this book offers much of what there is to learn (& criticize) in an Intro to Ecology course.
I felt the chapter did not add terribly much to the topic overall and despite Quammen’s efforts, I did not care a bit for Wallace and just wished the book would move on.A few passages bothered me, one being the scene were the mongoose was brutally killed by the scientist on the island of Mauritius.
While understandably the mongoose is an alien species on the island of Mauritius and was hunting the birds the scientist was trying to save from extinction, I felt it terribly cruel.
Definitely worth reading! You might need to be a bit patient at the beginning until you reach the big (incredibly interesting) picture. Several paragrahs might be a bit infomation overloaded.
An immense book, very well-researched. Quammen's science writing is among the best I've read. A bit detailed in certain sections to the point of monotony, but counterbalanced by many very meaningful sections. The final chapter was my favorite, diagramming the history of mass extinctions as related to the severity of the current, human-caused one.
Even the title is long and boring but makes me want to dive in again.I don't know if it's the leftover biology major in me that makes me appreciate the scientific history set forth in this book (because reading a page out loud to Carrie was often her way of falling asleep quickly...), but I loved learning everything this book had to teach.
He didn't sacrifice any detail, and that is what I loved about the story.Will I read it again?
It is unclear why the author chose this title, except that the dodo was a famous island resident, and the book concerns the theory of island biogeography, and its implications for modern conservation biology.The theory of island biography holds that a small, isolated area such as an island is likely to support fewer species of plants and animals than a comparably-sized area within an unbroken expanse of the same habitat.
This effect holds true for islands, as well as isolated mountaintops, patches of forest isolated from one another by clearing, and other mainland habitats as well.The significance of island biography to conservation biology is clear.
I'm writing this review seven years after originally reading the book, so some of the details have faded, but Quammen does an amazing job of presenting the science that revolutionized the field of conservation.
And he uses the stories from the field so effectively that even in grad school I would refer back to what I remembered of those examples in order to better understand the scientific papers I was reading.
In reading most of the papers that this book deals with, I also failed to find a single instance of Quammen misrepresenting, fudging, or glossing over scientific details.
Eventually, he, with Darwin, introduce this idea to the world From there, other ecological scientists expanded on the theory; people such as E.O Wilson, Jared Diamond, Thomas Lovejoy, Michael Gilbin and Michael Soule began developing theories on conservation biology, viable populations, landscape corridors, evolutionary genetics.
Quammen describes these scientists, explains their theories, travels the world to explain where and how the theories were developed This book contains complicated scientific ideas, but Quammen writes in a way that managed to keep me from clouding over (most of the time).
Tanto que recentemente me peguei confundindo passagens dele com o The Sixth Extinction: An Unnatural History, que também trata de extinções antrópicas.O autor segue uma linha bem autobiográfica, contando como ele visitou lugares e pesquisadores enquanto escrevia o livro.
Pra algumas pessoas isso é meio chato, mas eu acho que deixa a leitura mais 'humana".Ele traz a história da biogeografia (e os esforços de pesquisadores e conservacionistas contra extinções) de uma forma bem mais amigável que os livros técnicos.
É um daqueles livros que todo biólogo deveria ler na graduação.
