https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1637435.At_the_Master_s_Feet
An excerp from the chapter on prayer:The diciple asks:“Since God is fully aware of our needs, and knows how to supply them in the best way, not for the good only but for the evil, how should we pray to Him about them?
Whether our necessities be temporal or spiritual, can we by our prayers alter the will of God?” Jesus answers:Those who ask such a question show clearly that they do not know what prayer is.
Prayer does not consist in an effort to obtain from God the things which are necessary for this life.
The questions show a great awareness of common spiritual misconceptions or objections, and the answers line right up with the biblical record.The edition of the book I read (on Kindle) had an accounting of some visions the sadhu received, tacked onto the end.
These are a little less biblically verifiable (though not entirely unverifiable, and the clarity and validity of the first half of the book seems to validate these as well), but they're certainly intriguing and interesting reading.
I recommend this book and kind of wonder why, in an age when Eastern spirituality is so popular, Sundar Singh isn't a little better known and more widely read.
One quote of the many that spoke to where I am now...Some say that desire is the root of all pain and sorrow, therefore it is not right to desire happiness in heaven or in communion with God, for salvation consists in killing all desire.
To say this is as great a folly as to tell a thirsty man to kill his thirst instead of giving him water to drink, for thirst or desire is part of life itself.
When the soul finds Him who planted within it that desire, it receives far greater satisfaction that the thirsty man does from water, and this satisfaction of the soul's desire we call heaven.
A heavenly conversation This book showed me few examples like the ones Jesus gave through the parables in the Bible. Its amazing. Such wisdom, such insight, it could only be coming from God. Amazing to go through the book and learn things only God would know.
Awesome book. Awesome read. So much to digest. This has to be studied over and over again. Thank you brother bill for the referral
Most people with questions about Jesus will have them answered in this short but most powerful book. Changed my life, which was already very spiritual...

I enjoy the plethora of images he uses to express spiritual truths, coming from a variety of angles to illuminate an idea.
What a great book to read! When I read this book it gave me a full insight to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It is an eyeopener. I would encourage all to read it.H.V. Reeves
Overall good book. There were some theological issues I had with the book, but the analogies were great!
Beautiful imagery and very thought-provoking.
This is a beautiful book by a great, but humble, man!
