https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52318.Wild_Seed
Where Anyanwu changes her shape by metamorphosis, Doro does it by evicting people from their bodies and taking over (and thereby killing the body’s owner).
What follows is a story of power struggles between these two characters, involving intimidation, submission, heartbreak, courage and rebellion.To say that Wild Seed is a page turner may give the impression that this is a sci-fi thriller that moves at breakneck speed.
The narrative is more concerned with her struggle to free herself from Doro’s project without risking the people she loves (her children and descendants).
But like no other wild seed, Anyanwu would learn to fear him and bend herself to his will.
Doro, on the other hand, turns out to be much older and is a kind of spiritual vampire, taking the bodies of his victims and “wearing” them for a while.The central conflict of the story is the dynamic opposition between Anyanwu and Doro in regard to Doro’s millennia project of breeding a super race.
Doro, who is more spirit than man, has been gathering people with unusual talents and getting them together so that their talents may be made more usable and more apparent in the offspring.
Butler addresses slavery, gender roles, racial issues, sexuality, and class issues so subtlety you can miss the commentary if you want to and she does this all through the lens of a fantasy world involving supernatural beings that are seemingly immortal and have various abilities from shape shifting, body snatching, mind reading, and telekinesis.
This is the third book by Octavia Butler that I have read.
I have come to expect that in reading her books I will have an escape from reality and a complete immersion into the characters that she writes.
This is not urban fantasy lite.Wild Seed is a sweeping historical story that begins in Africa with ancient powerful beings.
Butler presents the female as body, female as healer, female as savior, female as settler, female as nurturer, female as victim, female as mother, female as creatrix, female as liberator, female as rebel, female as builder, female as gardener, female as defiant and noble and inherently virtuous.The sense is often that the male is the rude, brute beast from which the morally, ethically & spiritually superior female has evolved.And re: her depictions of pre-colonial Africa...Well, i think this novel would have benefited from consultation of the works of Frank M.
School book this semester & was not a fan. It gave me the creeps
This is an ideological movement of centuries whose myriad challengers are still fringed around the main, so if you want to write a work that destabilizes a thought process that so smugly thinks of itself as the 'center', you need eons of time and continents of space.Butler is not Anyanwu, but when it comes to the evil wrought by white supremacy in its breeding lines and uselessness makes waste, it's not hard to see that the main factor missing is humanity.
This novel could easily be a stand-alone novel, but I was intrigued when I realized it was the first in a series—I will be very interested to see where Butler takes the story from here.Although this is another book about extraordinarily long life, Butler examines it from a very different view point.
But what really spoke to me was the contrasting way that Doro and Anyanwu deal with people around them.Now, I have found over the years that I enjoy my relatives immensely.
This is the 151st book that I have read from the NPR list.
After that he spent millennia continually switching bodies and creating seed colonies in West Africa where to attempts to breed people with psychic abilities, creating more and more powerful beings.
For reasons unknown even to himself, he takes the greatest pleasure in taking the bodies of such psychic beings.One day Doro detects the presence of Anyanwu, a powerful black female shape-shifter and healer.
There are so many themes and dichotomies to explore here: master vs slave, man vs woman, white vs black, killer vs healer, Africa vs New World, African tribal networks vs modern Western communities, Colonialism vs Autonomy, Coercion vs Cooperation, etc.
blog | goodreads Most of us don't believe in gods and spirits and devils who must be pleased or feared. We have Doro, and he's enough. What can I say about Wild Seed that could come anywhere close to doing it justice? This is the story of how Doro met Anyanwu, the only living soul on Earth who could possibly match his will; test his patience, endure his passive cruelty, and time and again defy him in ways even she could not possibly understand.And forever is a long time to endure one another whe
This is the story of how Doro met Anyanwu, the only living soul on Earth who could possibly match his will; test his patience, endure his passive cruelty, and time and again defy him in ways even she could not possibly understand.And forever is a long time to endure one another when you are two of the only immortal beings on the planet.
Much like fire must burn and virus must spread, Doro's nature is simply a part of him he cannot destroy.(view spoiler)[image from DeviantArt
Despite my gushing on and on and on about Anyanwu and Doro's beautiful love, this was not a romance book.
And although they both have great power in many ways, the male force is dominant and relatively unstoppable.
She also does not age and like Doro may never die unless her body is physically destroyed.Wild Seed is a story of power, of slavery, of social control and of gender issues.
It's also a story of compromises, and the choices that are made by those with less power in order to survive.The following spoiler relates to what does NOT happen in the book, not what DOES happen.
Would appeal to anyone looking for an unusual refreshing take on the fantasy genre with socially powerful meaning.​
Sometimes the special abilities drive a person mad, but all Doro cares about, really, is what potentially great children he can get from them.
Still, "his people" are well cared for, the slaves are free, and he protects them all - mostly because he is so possessive and considers them his property far more absolutely than the slave owners, for example.You can look at Doro and Anyanwu another way: he is manufacturing, unnatural, forceful, going against nature, while Anyanwu is highly attuned to the natural world, creating medicine and food from natural products (plants etc.), and living as a bird, as a dolphin.
This aged woman reveals herself to be a young healer with strength that could crush a grown man who has roamed the world for over 300 years, but her lifetime is still a drop in time compared to his own lifespan.Anyanwu agrees to leave the safety of her home to help Doro forge a bloodline of children who have special abilities and share their immortality in a world where loneliness and boredom are the enemies of people like them.
This book follows Doro and Anyanwu from Africa during the early years of the American slave trades to the end of slavery as love, fight, hate, and dream about everything from the ethical issues of true workings of Doro’s breeding plan to their feelings about each other.It’s hard to pin this book down to just one thing.
The biggest drawback for me is the story which just seems a concoction without having any structure to it, and events just keeping without any connection to one another.I give this book 2/5 stars.
I really like what I've read by Octavia Butler so far and I wish I could give this at least three stars, but I can't because I hate Doro with a passionate fiery hatred and I wish he would die.
(Although, ooh, it will be supercool generations later when his offspring develop the power of flight and stop being crazy about their telepathy and basically become the X-Men, only incestuous -- but no!
I do not care about his awesome incestuous future X-Men!)Anyanwu is cool.
I liked how she could tie her Fallopian tubes using the power of her brain.
This is one of my favorite books ever, for its superb blending of atmosphere/landscape, characterization, politics, history, race/gender/sexuality, politics, and plot. Ms. Butler (may she rest in peace) created some of the most memorable characters in my mind in Doro and, of course, Anyanwu/Emma. I could read this book over and over. Just doing a text analysis of the opening 7 paragraphs is such an education to an aspiring novelist like me. Didn't like 'Mind of My Mind' as much, but wonder if any of the Patternist series books are as good as 'Wild Seed'.
This would be a great graphic novel.
RIP.Notes for 2018 reread, in progress:Currently rereading this early Butler novel, based on (I think) West African folk tales, but fundamentally a contest between two mighty Superheros, or at least superpowered immortals: Doro the amoral body-swapper vs Anyanwu the immortal shape-changer.
This is my favorite of Butler's novels, and is startling in its directness and clarity.
I'm looking forward to the rest of the reread of this 1980 novel, which seems as fresh now as it did almost 40 years ago.I didn't finish rereading it (library book came due), but I will, sometime.
I spent the majority of this book trying to decide whether or not I liked it, and debating whether or not I would want to read the rest of the series.
With this book, unlike with the Xenogenesis series, I didn’t feel like there was much of a story beyond the themes being explored.
It’s very possible I would have appreciated Wild Seed more if I’d read it first.The story in Wild Seed is set in our world, ranging from the years 1690 through 1840.
Since I already have the rest of the series, it’s tempting to keep reading and see where the story goes next.
But Wild Seed is basically about two people born with superhuman powers (including immortality) being born centuries ago, discovering each other, and then trying to guide other "gifted" beings (most of them being their descendants) along very different paths, down through the generations.
Wild Seed skillfully weaves racism into the narrative (Doro and Anyanwu both being immortal superbeings who also happen to be African, winding up in 19th century America) without making it a soapbox about racism, as so many modern novels do with their much more clumsy allegories.
Times where I would tell my friends and family that Octavia Butler is one of the greatest writers to have ever lived.
However, I truly believe that if Octavia Butler was alive today that she would be the best writer of Sci-Fi. That sounds crazy since I had such a love and hate relationship with this book.
I am almost certain that the level of detail, gore, and plain craziness that we have come to expect of many books now would not have been as acceptable at the time that she wrote this book.
I can only imagine where Octavia Butler's imagination would have taken her if she was writing today.
It's discomforting to read about people being bred like cattle, without real dignity, but sometimes you kind of share in Doro's frustration that it isn't turning out the way it should.Because of the immortal nature of the two characters, they're the only ones that exist throughout the novel, but there are one or two others worth sympathising with, mostly (for me) Isaac and Thomas, despite how short-lived Thomas is.The style of the writing is deceptively simple, but there's a lot to think about.
It isn't mindless brain candy, despite being easy to read.The most unsatisfying thing about it is the ending.
5 Stars Wild Seed by Octavia Butler is book one in her Pattermaster Series.
I am a huge fan of Octavia Butler and have loved many of her works.
She also writes to explore deep subjects and situations utilizing her fiction as the means in which to explore them.
As a result she is ageless and nearly impossible to kill.Doro, the male protagonist/antagonist is also special.
Doro has lived for thousands of years and is drawn now to our heorine Anyanwu.
I love Octavia Butler and loved Anyanwu.
I will definitely move on to the next book in the Pattermaster Series.

I haven't figured out what to say about the book so I'll just say that the audio was well done. He had to account for Doro changing bodies and characters that were going up and down the age spectrum. He also had to do a number of accents since the book went from Nigeria to New Amsterdam to New York to New Orleans.
Doro just needed a copy of Sims, but not Sims 4 because it sucks.
Then he could breed people, manipulate them all day and have himself a good time without causing suffering and misery to actual people.But, it would have been harder for him to find a body.
Somehow he gets drawn to Anyanwu living in some African town in the time of slavery.
He ensnares this powerful woman in his web of control, dominance and general assholery as he tries to breed people he can fit in with.And control.
Because that's all he knows how to do!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JJzjE...
Reading about almost immortal beings named Anyanwu and Doro through 288 pages of their dysfunction was a little much for me honestly.When Doro comes across Anyanwu (Sun Woman) he is happy to finally meet someone that he thinks can help him with his quest to breed the perfect children.
Nothing goes on forever it seems besides reading about how Doro is trying to breed people and then we come to an end which I assume sets up the next book in the series.
Anyanwu and Doro are two apparently immortal creatures living among normal humans.
Anyanwu has the power to completely control her body with her mind--she can assume the shapes of other people or animals, and she can heal herself with her mind.
Doro is a man without a body.
Anyanwu is kind, compassionate, interested in healing and helping people.
He's interested in creating other creatures like himself, beings who will possess superior powers and immortality.
I was never Team Doro, but I began to understand his careless view toward human life.
After watching people die for thousands of years, it lacks the punch it has for Anyanwu.
Doro decided to breed various children with others in order to create a “perfect species” that would be his perfect weapon and in his total control.
You have to read the book to understand what drove Doro, and also what drove Anyanwu to acquiesce to this sort of selective breeding of descendants.
If you decide to read this book, please understand that you are in store for top notch storytelling.The world building and character building was stellar.
This is my second book by the late Octavia Butler and I highly recommend this book to all science fiction fans.
Where do I begin?
Maybe at the beginning.
From a careful reading we get a developing picture of a very odd character.
We care.This is the story of the meeting of two strange beings, Doro and Anyanwu.
In Wild Seed, Doro and Anyanwu are incredible characters.
The point in time in which Ms. Butler opens up the story to us influences our perception of the characters immensely.
I have yet have the pleasure of reading anything else by Octavia Butler but she is easily on my list of favourite authors.
He was clearly annoyed that he had had to kill the young man, but annoyance seemed to be all he felt.” (35) Why does Anyanwu go off with Doro?
“She would learn that right and wrong were what he said they were.” (92) “Doro looked at people, healthy or ill, and wondered what kind of young they could produce.
Yes, they understand each other, because only the other is also immortal, but reading this I also want to reread Mind of My Mind, for when Anyanwu finally decides she –and the world—have had enough of Doro.
I did not like this book as much as many of my GR friends though it would be remiss for me not to state that Octavia Butler is a great creative force.
Her imagination seems unbounded to me.
They cannot be together, but cannot be apart either, and the central theme of the book is their interactions over many, many years.
I loved Anyanwu becoming various animals: a panther, a dolphin, an eagle, and her efforts to age with her various husbands over the years.
