https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9375.Fried_Green_Tomatoes_at_the_Whistle_Stop_Cafe
Another 8 (in two's) are against the ends of the four shelves under the galavanise bit of roof where it leaks when it rains hard (not now, post Irma I need a new roof as I have two huge holes in it, so I moved the books) .
So to get her revenge in the time left to her with the company she distributed this and other titles (all hardback) to international customers knowing she would have left before we got the books and the shit hit the fan.Cost the company quite a lot of money, but really, you have to give the girl at least 3 stars for creativity.
If you haven't read this yet - get it now. It's funny, most people can be around someone and they gradually begin to love them and never know exactly when it happened; but Ruth knew the very second it happened to her.  It's a love story, a friendship story and so much more. There's survival against the odds, murder, and absolute hilarity. In short - really, truly awesome. Remember if people talk behind your back, it only means you are two steps ahead Mrs. Threadgoode is at the same nursing home
It's funny, most people can be around someone and they gradually begin to love them and never know exactly when it happened; but Ruth knew the very second it happened to her.
Mrs. Threadgoode tells Evelyn stories from a not-so-distant past, when racism was rampart and certain home values were taken utterly seriously.
She tells of larger-than-life Idgie, sweet and gentle Ruth, and of course a whole cast of truly unforgettable characters.
It's fluffy, but the kind of fluff that has you squealing with happiness and chasing someone down to let them know how great this book is.I buddy-read this one with my mother and we really, truly bonded over these words.
I enjoy hearing older people reminisce about their lives so Mrs Threadgoode instantly became a charming character for me, and I, like Evelyn, was happy to enter into her world.
Like Evelyn, I was drawn in by the characters and the town of Whistle Stop and finished the novel over the course of one day because I could not get enough of Mrs Threadgoode's stories.
Whistle Stop is a small town whose people make up the fabric of this country, and the Threadgoodes and their descendants are cogs who embody southern life.
I enjoyed my trip through Whistle Town and am looking forward to reading more of Fannie Flagg's southern novels.
This book is fluffy.
This is the sort of book I enjoy when my brain decides to take a day off.
But it is lovely and it is likely that even the most po-faced cynics (me) will be drawn into the warm doughy bosom of this story of love, friendship and adversity in 1930s Alabama.
It's a modest but model community with great food, the kindness of neighbours, life-long friendships.
Living in Toxteth I find it hard to imagine this kind of idealised community of hot-buttered-biscuit loveliness but it was nice to at least try until the piercing wail of a police siren broke the illusion.
I really love this movie, but as usual, the book is much better and vastly different.
In 1985, two women, Ninny and Evelyn, meet and develop a strong friendship.
The journey is equally important for both women, allowing Ninny to remember and embrace her past while helping Evelyn to accept her past and look forward to her future.
Two significant differences exist between the book and the movie; Idgie and Ruth's relationship is blatently lesbian (in the movie they were just close friends), and the racial atmosphere of Alabama was a much more pronounced theme.
This is a heartwarming look at life, death, love, and friendship, and a great example of Southern Literature.
Her self-effacing manner when she tries to explain to one of them that she would love to feed them in the cafe but there were people in Whistle Stop who would soon put her out of busines.
And as she starts sharing the stories from her childhood and youth, the younger woman gets drawn into the world of the small town of Whistle Stop in Alabama, dominated by the cafe described in the title - and its co-owner, the indomitable Idgie Threadgoode.Ninny, orphaned from childhood, had stayed with the Threadgoodes ever since she was a child - a big, benevolent southern family comprising Poppa, Momma, the steady Cleo, flashy Buddy, feminine Leona, artistic Essie Rue and the incomparable Idgie.
Life with all its attendant tragedy, comedy and farce (with even a murder mystery!) flourishes in Whistle Stop.We have Ruth's son, Buddy "Stump" Threadgoode, missing an arm but still the heartthrob of the town.
Много ме радваха историите, героите, нравите, случките, характерите, мъдростта, мислите, любовта, разбирателство, съпричасността между хората, истинската доброта и една осезаема лекота на живота.
Онези разказвачи, които ми образуват тъга по това спокойствие и вътрешен мир.
Адски зареждаща книга!Обичам американските разказвачи и обичам голямата им безкрайна Америка, с огромните им безкрайни истории за онази полезна и липсваща простота на живота и простите взаимоотношенията.
Не бива да се отдаваш на тъгата, защото тя ще те разболее по-бързо от всичко друго на света.Не се знае какво носи човек в сърцето си докато не бъде подложен на изпитание.Е, това е.
Когато телефонът не звъни, да знаеш, че съм аз и не ти се обаждам.Онези, които най-много страдат, казват най-малко.
I feel bad saying it, but I think this is a case where I liked the movie better than I liked the book!
The movie had its heartbreaking moments, but one was still left with quite a bit of humor and a general feeling of the significance of living life to the fullest.
The book featured many more characters (and tragedies!) than the movie chose to portray, and the sadness of some of the stories dragged down the more humorous parts of the book.
I guess I had expected the movie when I opened the pages...
and that is always a dangerous thing!
Just had this quirk of making a note of a few words from the book.
Well without any certainty I can say that this understatement of homosexuality and ambiguity serves a purpose in the way our reading of the book is directed.
The relationship seems to spill copiously both in the spheres of a genuine asexual female friendship and a beautiful romantic bond between the two women.
It is beautiful in both ways and so does it illuminate the prospect and possibilities of bonding between women.
I would consider this book one of the most enjoyable reads ever.

An endearing and heartfelt story that just makes you want to take a trip and visit the Whistle Stop Cafe. The movie has always been a favorite of mine, and now the book is too! Just loved it!
Εγώ πάλι όχι, δεν είχα όρεξη να το πιάσω στα χέρια μου και κάθε φορά που το έκανα ένιωθα λες και έκανα αγγαρεία, οπότε το έφτασα μέχρι λίγο μετά από την μέση.
Είναι γλυκό, τρυφερό και νοσταλγικό, αλλά δεν ένιωσα τίποτα.
Ίσως φταίει το ότι ανήκει στην ίδια κατηγορία βιβλίων που ανήκει το Όταν σκοτώνουν τα κοτσύφια και το The help, τα οποία λάτρεψα οπότε περίμενα κάτι περισσότερο, ίσως πάλι φταίει και το ότι οι κριτικές το εκθειάζουν!!!
Αυτά από εμένα.
It is also my understanding that Flagg expressed confusion about her own sexual orientation after publishing “Fried Green Tomatoes”: the small town community embracing Ruth and Idgie regardless of their sexuality might also have been wishful thinking on her part because she yearned for the kind of support and acceptance the Whistle Stop folks and the Threadgoode family show her characters.)Do not let the deceptively simple story fool you: this is a heartwarming book about love, grief, friendship, community and how the changing times affect our lives.
Told mainly through the stories of Mrs. Threadgoode in the nursing home, she goes back and forth between memories, from dull things like her cat and family dinners, to intriguing things such as murdered men and domestic violence.Evelyn was an excellent character – she was weak-willed, submissive, so being in her head was interesting.
The book wins with personal introspection and making Evelyn the more interesting of the bunch, but the movie wins with emotional tragedy when it came to (view spoiler)[Ruth’s ending (hide spoiler)].
At the end there is a change with her over the movie too, which had a different note of what she brought to Evelyn’s life.
Evelyn Couch, an empty-nester woman who is unable to find meaning in her life, finds personal strength and a new zest for living through the stories and friendship of Mrs. Threadgoode, a nursing home resident.
Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe is essentially about the relationships of two sets of women—Evelyn and Mrs. Threadgoode in the present (1980s) and Idgie and Ruth in the past.
Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe will most likely appeal to women who are 30 or older and people who enjoy reading historical fiction or books that take place in the South.
Every element adds to the story, none of the side plots or extra details take anything away, they just keep adding to it.
None of the characters feel unnecessary and they all add to the over all feeling of the book.
There are two main stories in this book.
I was so emotionally invested in the characters that I cried several times throughout this book and that doesn't happen often when I read.
This novel touched me and I have discovered a new favourite book along with new favourite characters and a new favourite couple (OTP alert!).
Any non-white American readers at the time would have seen just how shittily this story treats its black characters.Still, it evokes that nostalgia for the years between World Wars, of gritty, bootstrap-pulling characters in a tiny town who get along just fine, where the sheriff is a member of the KKK but runs out another group of KKKers because the fine people of Whistlestop take care of their own, including their coloreds.
There's a golden glow over the town and not just in Ninnie Threadgoode's rosy, sentimental memories.30 years later, the racism is blatant and loud, covered with that "I'm not a racist" veneer that bigoted white people, specifically middle-class white women, love to use.
Vivere nella luce La vita va vissuta fino in fondo, senza serbare rancore o alimentare rimpianti per ciò che non si è fatto.I ricordi diventano un ponte tra il fulgido passato e lo sbiadito presente; la necessità di raccontare passa per l'affabulazione fantastica, la quale impreziosisce normali storie di vita e diventa quasi linguaggio pacificatore per accettare se stessi di fronte all'inesorabile incedere del tempo.Da qualche parte, chissà a che orari, ci dovrà pur essere un treno per arrivare a Whistle Stop...
She ends up sitting next to an elderly woman named Ninny Threadgood who proceeds to tell her stories about her family and friends that lived in Whistle Stop, Alabama.
At first Evelyn feels annoyed this woman has latched onto her, but she soon starts to live for the weekly stories of Idgie, Buddy, Ruth, Stump, Big George, Sipsey, Dottie Weems, and others.
I did think she slowly shows that for some people even for some of the so called good characters they still had prejudices towards African Americans.
It has an interesting plot, lots of black humor, a rapid to and fro journey between two completely different spaces and times, glimpses of history and some wonderful characters.
Evelyn is an empty nester, menopausal, overweight, neglected wife who meets the 86 years old high spirited Mrs. Ninny Threadgoode at the Rose Terrace Nursing Home.
I loved each character and wondered, 'what happened to that one?' I am quite glad that Flagg concluded each character’s life story.
In one conversation, Ninny tells Evelyn with time the differences between a married couple become apparent and how easily you develop liking for them because they are a part of the very person you love.
A, ako je film tako dobar onda i knjiga mora biti genijalna što je i ovdje slučaj...
I u filmu i u knjizi osjećamo emocije s kojima je Fanni Flag ispričala priču o gradiću Whistle Stop i njegovim stanovnicima..
prošlog stoljeća u doba kada su crnci u Americi sjedili u stražnjem djelu autobusa, a bijelci se prekrivali plahtama i nazivali Ku Klux Klan-om.
Iako se radnja odvija na američkom jugu prošlog stoljeća, mnoge situacije opisane u knjizi su svevremenske jer za ljubav, hrabrost, plemenitost, lojalnost, pravo prijateljstvo nisu važni vrijeme ni prostor kao ni boja kože.
My reading of this book has a weird story that goes with it.
In 1989 my grandmother came to stay with me while my mom was traveling somewhere for a chunk of time.
I already had picked up a couple of magazines and wanted a book, too.
I picked up book after book, reading the back and seeing if I might want it.
While the movie wasn't as good as the book (at the time; it's now a beloved film) it starred Mary Stuart Masterson which really, really helped me get over that.
ღმერთო რა კარგი იყო.
წიგნი თანადგომაზე,სიყვარულზე,მეგობრობაზე,ერთუგლებაზე.
რაღაცნაირი ჰაეროვანია,ნარნარებს.ძალიან ვისიამოვნე.
კიდევ,სიამოვნებით მეყოლებოდა დოტ უიმსისნაირი მეგობარი.მოკლედ,ფაქტია რომ ამ წიგნით უსაზღვროდ ვისიამოვნე.პ.ს.
ვის უნდა შემწვარი მწვანე პომიდვრები?"ვისაც ყველაზე მეტად სტკივა,ყოველთვის ყველაზე ცოტას ლაპარაკობს""წლების წინ,აქ უისელ სტოპში ყველაზე ლამაზი ტბა იყო.ზაფხულობით მასში ვცურავდით,ვთევზაობდით.რომ იცოდე როგორ მენატრება ეგ ადგილი.- რა მოუვიდა,დაშრა?- არა,მაგაზე უარესი.
ერთხელ ნოემბრის თვეში,იხვების დიდი გუნდი - დაახლოებით ორმოცნი ან მეტნი - ზუსტად ტბის შუაგულში დაფრინდა.შუადღისას,სანამ იქ ისხდნენ,დაუჯერებელი რამ მოხდა - ტემპერატურა ისე უეცრად დაეცა,რომ ტბა მთლიანად სამ წამში ქვასავით გაიყინა.
ერთი,ორი,სამი და გაიყინა.- სერიოზულად ამბობთ?- კი.- მაშინ,ვფიქრობ,იხვები დაიხოცებოდნენ.- არა,სწორედაც რომ არა!
ისინი უბრალოდ გაფრინდნენ და ტბაც თან წაიღეს.ეს ტბა ახლა სადღაც ჯორჯიაშია."
Abridged audiobook narrated by the authorUnabridged audio performed by Lorna Raver.When Evelyn accompanies her husband to the nursing home to visit an ailing relative, she meets Mrs Threadgood.
Flagg does a marvelous job of developing these characters, and the reader feels the love between them.
I thought that this time out I’d enjoy Fannie Flagg reading the audio version.
However, I realized after I’d gotten the book from the library that Flagg’s audio work is an abridged version.
So, I managed to get the unabridged version as well … narrated by Lorna Raver.
Raver does a fine job, but she’s not Fannie Flagg.
It starts off with a woman named Evelyn, who doesn't understand herself and is depressed, and by hearing an 80 year-old woman's story about Whistle Stop helps her develop her courage and strength.
There are actually a lot of "isms" in this book that you will be reading about.
This book could be classified as a political novel.There are a few things I didn't like:1) The story was out of chronological order.
I am so glad my favorite part in the movie was in the book.
I do recommend people reading this book if you get a chance and see the similarities and perhaps differences of the times.
:D So when I started to read the book I have a strange feeling of re-discovering the story of Whistle Stop Cafe.
For me, fried Green Tomatoes is without any doubt one of this tender and universal stories that it will be always part of my heart.Spanish version:Antes de nada me gustaría decir que empecé a leer Tomates Verdes Fritos porque es una de mis películas favoritas, y no me avergüenzo de decirlo!
:D Así que cuando empecé a leer el libro tenia un extraño sentimiento de estar redescubriendo la historia del Whistle Stop Cafe.
Y que decir del final, para mi el final de la novela es redondo.
This book is perfect. RTC.
This was a sweet story of friendship and a lovely tribute to the south. I liked the book. I am not sure it is a story that will linger long in my memory, but it was an enjoyable read.
This book made me feel so nostalgic, and I don't even know what I'm nostalgic for.Anyway, it was so nice to read about a f/f relationship back in the 20's/30's/40's and a happy one. Made my heart all warm.4.25
