https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77740.In_Enemy_Hands
While not the best book in the series, it certainly has its moments.
As usual, the title is a spoiler, but that's OK.
Unfortunately, it gives Weber a chance to make lots of people go all gooey over Honor until the heroine worship, already cloying, becomes just too much.
Weber has done a fine job there & the book is worth reading for that if nothing else.
He's done a fine job of drawing parallels to our current welfare system, Communist countries & the French Revolution.
While he explains as much, he showed more, which helped.On to the next, Echoes of Honor.
Jettison the debris, clear the missle tubes, abandon ship. Whatever it takes to stop my eyes from further bleeding. This is a sad day. I've rated most of these books to this points with 4-stars, with one of them good enough to earn a coveted 5th star. Most of them have infodumps and boring spells, but this one has had nothing else for the first third.Too many books out there I want to read, so no point in continuing to torturing myself.I might pick it up again later, but for now I'm resigning my commission.
Not one of the best of this series. It takes even longer than usual for anything to happen, about 200 pages. The situation that puts Honor in a position to be captured seems contrived, as does the whole escape scenario.I think Weber has introduced a Lady Barbara for his Horatio: Honor has fallen in love with the Earl of White Haven. I've been careful to avoid spoilers on this series, but if I had to guess, things don't look good for White Haven's wife.
Kind of bummed about that, as some romance and scandal would shake up the drawn out plotting scenes.So the space battles are limited, and the internal character dialogue is to the max.
Which makes for a very boring story when each character is sitting in a chair and musing for a whole chapter.Don't introduce so-and-so if so-and-so isn't going to do squat in the book.
I've always liked the treecats so I consider their scenes as a fun diversion to the long talking scenes.Where the characters are at the end set up the next book nicely, unless it skips everything.
I enjoyed the second half of this book far more than the first.
For the first 40 pages or so, the reader is treated not only to a recap of the rest of the series (understandable, most serieses do this), but also example after example of how "special" Honor, how everyones loves, how she is the most unique and amazing person every.
Honor is the best at everything!
(Question, would she be that great if Weber hadn't made her with strength, special treecat abilities and genetic enhancements?).
However, once the book gets into space, it gets much better.
It was good, even though I read it out of order--which can be agonizing on Harrington books.The usual chapter-long recapitulations and data dumps early on finally gives way to a fun, interesting story.
As Honor's circumstances spiral out of control, Weber does an exceptional job switching viewpoints so the reader knows everything he/she needs to about what is going on, but he does not cross the line of coherency where the various viewpoints become more confusing than intricate.This book delves even more deeply into Honor's character, specifically how her imprisonment (and treatment therein) affects her psyche.
I would also recommend getting your hands on a copy of Echoes of Honor, which is the novel which follows this one.All in all I would call this one of the better Harrington novels, especially if you read this and Echoes of Honor back to back.
Weber maintained he had to do it to be fair to "Nelson in Space".
Many of his fans at the time replied, "No, you don't."The first six novels are good space opera, although the sixth (Honor Among Enemies) is a bit longer than it should have been.
I read it when it first came out and wasn't impressed.
I recently tried re-reading it and couldn't.
A couple have been as good as the sixth.
This one isn't the worst, but it's a clear plummet onto the downslope.My one exception to the above generalization is the Flint/Weber "Crown of Slaves", which Eric Flint manages to pull out of the morass of Weberian infodumps.
This book ends on more of a cliffhanger than previous installments int the Honor Harrington series, and Honor's companions play a more prominent role in much of the action than she does.I enjoyed learning more about Honor's mother, the treecats, and several of the Peeps (Theisman, Tourville, Honecker, Caslet, and Foraker, especially).
The injuries suffered by Honor and Nimitz will prove to be a challenge, even if she is treated eventually by her mother at the new clinic back on Grayson.I did find the extreme depth of Honor's despair to be almost too much.
I'm addicted. Got home with In Enemy Hands and I just had to sit down and read to find out what happens next in the Alliance-Peeps war.Jesus, talk about intense and very emotional...I hate having to wait until the next book.
Yet again, terrific space stuff. Dull, long-winded, repetitive political discussions and meetings. Why write one book, when you can sell three?
One thing to like about this series.A constant change in events and perils for Honor.I was worried when starting this series.
That it was going to be a stream.Of same plot ideas, just worked different order.So far it stays fresh, as the character evolves, through years of struggles.Once again, she is placed in a different set of events and circumstance.This one also seems to work, growing some of the other characters.Not just spotlight mainly just on Honor.Things do NOT go well for her here.In fact for the first time.Honor must look into herself.To see when she had been afraid for others.To now being honest and afraid just for her own well being.Do not care for the way, author.
Not all things resolved by end of this book.Looking forward to the next one.
Review of the audio book.3.5 stars rounded down due to lots of bloat.
Not a standalone.
Space opera.
I found myself skipping lots of bloat, either excessive weapons descriptions or recaps of material already presented many times.Beside the story which I like, the best part of the Honor Harrington series is the randomness in which supporting cast characters are female or male.
A general, a judge or a bully is as likely to be female as male.The narrator's use of accents is so-so.Don't read unless you have read all of the previous books in the series.
The point isn't that Honor is going to a prison planet, or even why this is the case, but that Haven's long obscured prison must be revealed, and all the implications involved when the Galaxy at large—including the Solarian League—discovers their duplicity.It's clear this isn't just a war of military maneuvers, and that politics play a significant part, and the deeper insight that Weber introduces with his summary of Haven's social woes is impossible to ignore.
Considering the length of the series at large, having a number of universe-building entries is necessary to maintain ambiance without it turning into a mere transcription of erratic space battles from the perspective of a somewhat empathetic heroine.It's an interesting conundrum Weber has introduced this time, and I can't wait to see how it turns out.
As some of the other reviewers have said, this is not the strongest book in the Honor Harrington series (although it is still very good).
My reason for finding it somewhat heavy going is probably, however, idiosyncratic: I just don't like reading about suffering, particularly in the context of captivity and torture.
Not that torture is more than alluded to in the book -- we're nowhere close to the blood-soaked pages of Carey's "Kushiel's Legacy" series, or Mieville's "Perdido Street Station" -- and the descriptions of suffering are also restrained (unlike, for example, in Donaldson's "Thomas Covenant" books).
It seems to me that if you are going to imagine an experience, why not imagine a good one?
This is a very long book, almost 600 pages.
The first half dragged for me with all the techno-babble on the configurations of the various classes of battleships and then all the discussions on battle strategies - I wish they were all put into appendices like the illustrations of the battleships!After skipping through most of the first half, the story only got interesting when Honor was actually  In Enemy Hands.
I get that she's depicted as this inspirational leader and person but the sheer  love  she inspires just feels a bit over the top.And so we're left with a cliffhanger at the end and a brief look at the next book shows that it's got almost an extra 200 pages on this one!!!
Not my favorite, but still quite good.The book does much as the title implies.
Things had to go wrong sometime and Honor loses and gets captured.
Things get complicate with lots of politics and propaganda.
Which is kind of what makes this a lesser book than the rest.
The battles, fights and all the time spend with Honor is excellent, but there is way to much politics and to much time spent on people other than Honor herself.
The series moves away just a bit to far from Honor personal story to the story of the war as a whole.
In short not my favorite, but still better than most.
Riveting adventure, a true heroine and Weber is a great storyteller.
2018 re-read. This is a really good book, but my least favorite story line of this series Still, 5 stars!
In Enemy Hands is the seventh book in the Honor Harrington series, and another audio book that I listened to with my son.
The deeper we go in the series, it's becoming more true that in order to *really* get the most out of the novel, you must have read the previous books.
So, given this, even though 'In Enemy Hands' does see Honor captured (no surprise there), and its hard to generate true fear for a character who has many more books written about her after this one, what we come to fear is what happens to those around her.
(but my son didn't agree with that statement)I need to look up the reader of the Honor Harrington series.
But Weber makes this harder and harder, since each book seems to have less and less action.
Or maybe it's the long drawn out descriptions of engineering details that Weber has dreamt up about something.
But it's just outrageously boring to have to sit through pages and pages of having one character explain it all to another.Having said all of that, Weber did finally come through at the end of book 7 with some action.
His ship-to-ship action is also getting a bit stale, so this time it was thankfully something a bit different.
Following the events of the last book, Honor is promoted to Commodore and given command of an international cruiser division operating out of Yeltsin's Star (the Grayson system).
For their shakedown cruise they're given the task of escorting a convoy of fast merchant vessels.
Honor and her officers are captured, and handed over to the evil organization State Security, and Cordelia Ransom, the Peeps' head of PR and propaganda.
They plan to have a show trial of Honor for her actions at Basilisk.
Of course, things don't quite go as planned, and it takes all of their ingenuity and courage to win free.
Books that I look forward getting back to are what I like.
This is that series for me.
Honor displays a little more vulnerability in this book than in previous books but in the end she still turns out to be super human and wins despite the odds (Otherwise the series would end at 7 and who would want that).
Another book filled with action and politics and some more intrigue.
The Havenite Empire is a divided empire while Manticore stays mostly united despite the political divisions.
Much of his universe is loosely based on European naval history and politics but it works well for space.
I think that this is my favorite book in the Honor Harrington series so far.
The PRH is portrayed as a mix of revolutionary France and and the Soviet Union.
The Peep (as they are called in the books) naval officers are warriors trying to do their job while having to navigate the Kafkaseque political situation of their space empire.
We get to see characters trying to do their best and survive in a situation where their own government is as deadly to them as enemy warships.
One feels that the PRH has its fair share of Stanislav Petrovs.
Oh, and Honor Harrington gets captured.
So far this has been one of my favorite Honor Harrington books. Regrettably there are a lot of character losses in this book as well. There are also some really surprising plot twists that were a pleasant surprise; not something that I expected of this author. Usually Space Opera is fairly formulaic, but the author did a good job stretching that formula. Some new ground is also explored in this book which leads into the next Honor adventure.
The title kinda gives away what's going to happen, but it takes two-thirds of the book to get there. Which threw the pacing off a bit.Overall it was pretty decent, but Weber's strength definitely lies in the action scenes rather than the emotional turmoil scenes. There was also an excess of plot armour and coincidence for some characters.That said, I thoroughly enjoyed myself and found it damned hard to put down - I'm very keen to get started on the next book.
De plus en plus passionnant. David Weber se renouvelle sans cesse et l'histoire est de plus en plus et de mieux en mieux développée, il en fait voir à Honor de toutes les couleurs pour notre plus grand plaisir. Et les autres personnages sont aussi très intéressants à suivre. Du space Opéra militaire comme je l'aime!
More Honor. You mostly know what to expect. The book end's on a cliffhanger this time. The blurb on the cover reveals the main plot point, which would have been much better as a surprise, especially given how late in the book it occurs.my favorite quote: "She had to know she was lying, or she couldn't have done it so consistently and well."
This series started out with a single active pov.Now we have way too many, and most of the time nothing happens.Each of thouse povs have info-dump, and repeated banter/book-filler.With each book in this series, i find myselft skipping more and more, because of the issues above.I have no issue to skip some Weber-info-dump, but now i skip more then i read.
Oh man Oh man. My new best book in the series. A simple master piece. I couldn't put it down. Read the last 60% of the book in one sitting. Haven't read a book this good in a long time.
