https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106.Dune_Messiah
Dune has become the political and economical centre of the universe, and the Qizarate priesthood has spread Muad'dib's name throughout space and turned him into not only an emperor with absolute power, but a god in his own right.Yet there are those who would topple the god emperor from his religious throne.
I would definitely recommend it to every single one of you, because it's a wonderful story with few equals in the world of science fiction.Such a rich store of myths enfolds Paul Muad'dib, the Mentat Emperor, and his sister, Alia, it is difficult to see the real persons behind these veils.
We've all had it happen to us.So, last time I had my family murdered by our hereditary enemies, I went into hiding in the desert too, and linked up with the tough native fighters there.
I liked her, she liked me, well, you know how these things happen.
Girlfriend dies in childbirth, par for the course, and since she has twins all my psychic powers are gone.
I keep meaning to find out why that happens, but I never get round to it.Oh well, I guess I'll be left to die in the wilderness as usual, and the kids will turn into godlike mutant sandworms.
Only half the length of the original Dune, the second book in the series takes place 12 years after.
The feel of the book is like a prelude to what comes next, that the third book will be the true sequel to Dune.For fans of Dune, no doubt, and you really need to have read Dune first, to know the characters and to at least have a clue about Herbert's complex and intricately detailed world building.But then, comparing this book to Dune is like comparing a country lawyer to a Supreme Court justice, the comparison itself is unfair, very few books will equal Dune or even come close.
Not enough to give it a poor rating, since it is interesting (I mean, we all still care about Paul, even if he is a whiner) and it did keep my attention.You haven't seen foreshadowing until you've read Dune Messiah.
Thought Dune was pretentious?
And I didn't really care about Duncan Idaho, anyway, since he was only in Dune for like forty pages and he only spoke about twice.
Telling me ten times in a row that Paul really really liked Idaho is not going to make me feel the same way about him, Frank Herbert!Now I'm afraid to read number three.
Literally everybody and their brother with even residual lust for power decided Paul the Emperor had overstayed his welcome; the time for good old conspiracies of all sorts had come.
The first thing that came to my mind and stayed there through the whole reading was the radical change of the meaning of word Jihad since the book publication.
It had action, adventure, and flat characters with a sole exception of Paul himself (I could also include Jessica here given enough pressure to do so).
He could also see that removing main conspirator A would mean Really Bad Things for Paul down the road.
We get more insight into the Navigators - here I noticed that, unlike in Dune, we actually meet a Navigator (one of the three primary conspirators against Paul Maud'dib) which means that David Lynch most have read this book as well before making his cult classic movie of the first book.
This fascinated me because I have read and watched so much science fiction where the machines win (or are winning) such as in Ghost in the Shell or Neuromancer, or Blade Runner, or Hyperion and Dune is one of the rare universes where humans won and yet, at what cost?
Frank Herbert returned to Arrakis for a book that was very different from the action packed first volume of the series, but at the same time, still held a lot of the familiar.
Which is a shame, because they're missing out on this little gem of a book.Twelve years after taking the throne of the empire for himself in Dune, Paul "Muad'Dib" Atreides has become something of a God, or Savior figure to the Fremen, who have taken up arms and spread out throughout the entire known universe bringing a Holy War to subjugate all beneath his rule.
This book is very different from the first book, 'Dune' because this book has focused about the religion. 'Dune' has focused the world a lot. At the first, I wasn't sure whether this book would be good. The reason I have doubted it because I wasn't sure how the writer has written towards Islam. He has done very well.I am really enjoyed reading this book Alhamdulillah.
When I first read Dune Messiah, it was nearly twenty years ago and like a lot things time had erased most of the details from my brain - including the ending.So digging into it last week was a treat; felt like something new.
(The vengeful part is, however, accurate.)So, when teenage Nick finished Dune; what felt like the most epic journey my imagination had ever been on, only to crack open the next book and feel like I was thrust into the pages of a bad pulp novel, it felt a bit confusing.I read the prologue which contained on-the-nose dialogues by some nameless jailer and a historian.
I really liked Frank Herbert's classic science fiction novel Dune when I first read it a few months ago --so much so that I named it one of the best books I read that year.
It also follows through on one of the more interesting concepts introduced in the first book: Paul's spice-induced ability to foresee the eventual species-wide extinction of humans and the hard choices he has to make in order to steer history towards a lesser evil.
The way that Paul must grapple with his precognition and how he has to grasp at things to try and leave humanity on the path to survival in the wake of his inevitable fall is a complex and fascinating idea, for one.
When they set the bar so high with an exceptional first novel in a series they're expected to meet or better it which is not an easy task.
We're thrust into a world where the long term consequences of actions taken in the first book are evident and seldom what we expected or what was intended.
The other was the way in which seeing the future as a sequence of possibilities all changed by small actions was presented.
I've always found this hard to accept and find Herbert's way of dealing with knowing the future far better thought out.
Dune sadece bir bilim kurgu ve fantastik bir kitap değildir. İçinde gerçeğin ta kendisinin çekirdeklerini taşıyan bir yapıttır. İnanç nasıl yönlendirilir, fanatizm nasıl milyonların canını alır, güç ve güç mücadelesindeki olayların hepsi gerçek olayları anlatırmışçasına bize bilim kurgu tadıyla sunuluyor. Kitapla ilgili incelemem için: http://kitapokurum.blogspot.com/2018/...
You stand in a valley between dunes.
I stand on the crest.
And, among other things, I see mountains which conceal distances.
All power is limited.Treasonous conspirators seek to destroy the emperor.
And the deified emperor’s visions may cause self-destruction.
This book is slower than the first, with not much happening until the last third of the text.
It seems more like a setup for the book that follows.
The world-building and mysticism make these books worth the effort.
Finally meeting a steersman and other lifeforms has me interested in learning more.
I look forward to the next installment.
After finishing Dune Messiah I feel like I need some kind of launching pad to start off the review, some inspiration or perhaps I will resort to simply ripping off somebody’s review wholesale (unfortunately Cecily has not reviewed this one yet so I'll pass on the last option ;)Dune, as you are undoubtedly aware, is probably the most famous sci-fi novel of all time.
Having read the book I do not get the feeling that Frank Herbert was feeling under pressure to match Dune’s success.
5.0 stars. Second volume in the superb Dune series. I actually liked this volume even more than Dune. If possible I would recommend listening to the audio version of this series as the production value is amazing. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!!!!
The Dune Chronicles just keeps getting better and better, this was probably Paul's greatest test, and damn, what a prolific writer Frank Herbert is, telling us the reader exactly what evil is being planned against the Atriedes and letting us hope and trust Paul's prescience to get him through it all.
It's sad what happens to Channi and to Paul himself, but the sadness doesn't take away from the masterpiece that's the rest of the novel.
This is a book, like Paul Atriedes himself, that I won't forget, not for a long time.
While it wasn't as grand (or as long) as Dune, I would say Dune Messiah was a very important part of the Dune series.
Even though it was shorter, and we were already familiar with this dune world, there were many important things that took place.
This is a must read for Dune fans.
It felt at times to be a rambling mess.
You had to read at a macro level skimming at times just to understand.
If you can get past the blathering dialogue, then I highly recommend this to science fiction fans and especially those who read Dune and opted to treat it as a stand-alone.
“Biliyorum Duncan. Seven seveni tanır.”Çok güzeldi. Herkes okumalı... herkes.
But on this, my third or fourth reading, I'm realizing there's not much to this book.
eh.Also Alia has the potential to be such a fascinating character, but she's underused and underwritten.
And I already know that in the next book she's going to be crazy and retconned half to death (which I can NEVER get used to, and which NEVER ceases to drive me bonkers), so this is our last chance to view mad, violent (yet in control of her own mind,) beautiful Alia.
Yawn.[Re-read in August of 2008.
Initially read in .
And re-read several times after that.]
We know Paul was never going to be perfect, was never going to be an angelic being or benevolent emperor; Frank Herbert told us that in "Dune." We know that Paul knew his destiny, knew the consequences of his actions, from the earliest moments; we can speculate that he might've even had the power to change the outcome, to escape the jihad fought in his name, to fling off the mantle of power that weighed upon him and turned his friends and companions into slavish minions, willing to do anything in the name of Muad'Dib. And yet he didn't.
Kelimelerle anlatılamayacak şeyleri aktarmanın peşinde Herbert. Belki ancak bir çöl akşamında yapayalnız etrafı izlerken öğrenebileceğimiz bir duygunun...
samo sitan komentar kako je ovo bio moj prvi susret s "tatom" i to negdje '75./'76.mislim da je prilično teška knjiga za tu dob (13-14g) no ja sam ostao "paf" i od tada ne znam ni koliko puta pročitao kompletan serijal - moje omiljeno štivo.tek nedavno prvi puta dovršio u HR izdanjuHerbert je majstor nad majstorima - šestica za Dune
Dune Messiah is the first sequel to the Science Fiction classic Dune and will not disappoint fans of the Dune universe.The plot continues 12 years after the events of Dune end; Paul is now the emperor to thousands of planets and the ‘Jihad’ prophesied is under way.
Without risk of spoilers for Dune; some old favourite characters are back though some are developed and others are just for plot continuation.
The Bene Gesserit is featured and developed more, showing what lengths they will consider to reach their final end.In Summary: An excellent Science Fiction novel that continues on the story started in the classic Dune.
I wasn't expecting to like this as much as I liked Dune.
But in some ways it was actually better.
I love Dune but I love the world, the language, and the over all experience.
And even though I like the minor characters, I just never connected with Paul or really any of the leads.
Actually I found most of them to be arrogant and manipulative.
Paul become more human, questioning his role and his right.
I liked it and it makes me want to read Dune again with new eyes.
Recommended to anyone who read Dune but for whatever reason haven't read it yet.
This is a challenging book because it will explain you one by one how all the pieces work, but won't tell you what they mean when put together. I think that is part of the magic.A wonderful experience and great sequel to Dune.
read like a Shakespearean play; dramatic, heavy with despair, classical motifs, religious undercurrents, politics questioned, wordplay at hand. I dig it.
I first read Dune four years ago. I respected it, and understood why it was a landmark achievement in sci-fi literature, but I honestly can't say I truly enjoyed it. So I'm not sure why I read the sequel. It just seemed like the thing to do. I read Dune again earlier this year. This time I actually had fun reading it, and I noticed things I hadn't on the first read, which made me wonder what I'd missed in the sequels. So I reread Dune Messiah. I previously liked it more than Dune. That's not tru
Also, (view spoiler)[Paul lets Irulan give Chani a certain contraceptive he knows will weaken Chani's body, which will cause her death in childbirth.
And even though some people don't like that Paul falls so low after his monumental triumph in Dune, I still think how he reacts to the trials in Messiah make him a more sympathetic character here than he was in the previous book.And now to see what I missed in Children of Dune.**********Here's my original review.
I was committed to not abandoning it as I did last time because I want to delve a little further into the Dune series.
This fails to hurt the book because of none of this actually happens within the confines of Dune, aside from a minor scene at the end that crowns him.
This event, in itself, is consistent with the plot.Dune Messiah starts with having accepted that all we were told to expect has happened and then wallows in the religious weirdness it creates.
It took me a long time to read because I just couldn't find the motivation to keep wading through dense dialogue, and when I did reach the end, I found it sadly to be short and quick, which didn't make up for the long, long drawn-out nature of the book.I liked being able to read from Alia's viewpoint, but I missed reading about the desert and the Fremen people that made Dune captivating.
If you wanted, you could just read a summary of Dune Messiah and not miss much.
I'd have been amazed if this one was as phenomenal as the first, and it wasn't.
It was, however, Frank Herbert, who surprises me with his philosophy and world vision all the time.
Compared to Dune, though, this book just lacked a lot of protein.
Perhaps it's because the incredibly rich new world of Dune/Arrakis was already in place, and I wasn't the wide-eyed, amazed traveler through it any longer, but it wasn't the page-turner of the last for me.
Still, I'll read them all, and wish Frank Herbert was around so that I could buy him dinner and pick his brain.
