https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2213661.The_Graveyard_Book
Recently, on a car trip with my little boy, I decided to try listening to an audiobook.
Generally speaking, he'd prefer to listen to Macklemore's Thrift Shop, which he calls "The Sway Music." But he's four now, with a vocabulary that's diverse to the point of being a little creepy.
I'm listening to the story and I can see the pictures in my head!" "Really?" I asked."Yeah," he says.
I know this because for the next couple days, whenever we got into the car, he asked if we could listen to "the story of the boy that lived in the graveyard." Yes, yes we can.
It takes a graveyard to raise a childNobody Owens (yes, that's his name) becomes orphaned at an early age when an unknown "Jack" murders his entire family.What's surprising is that Nobody doesn't even notice - the kid is too excited that the house door is open and toddles off for adventure.
(i.e. the Macabray: the dance of the living and the dead, was not ever touched on again but it was by-far one of the most curious happenings in that little graveyard)Some of the more interesting graveyard happenings (i.e. Silas (the vampire) and Miss Lupesco's adventures) were only spoken of in the vaguest of terms.
I think I probably enjoyed it more than she did in fact.It's a fine book.
Thereafter the book slowly cycles back around to its beginning and in the mean time raises our young Bod, equipping him with the skills to deal with his problem.Bod's life in the graveyard is very interesting, with him learning various bits of magic and magical lore from the dead.
I think Celyn got a bit irritated as I kept pausing to gather myself to read the next line.Anyway.
A curious and highly entertaining book thick with inventiveness and written with deceptive skill.Join my 3-emails-a-year newsletter #prizes....
Likewise, The Graveyard Book has this strong,strange, wonderful metaphor about kids growing up, learning about the wider world, and exploring beyond the safe boundaries of their homes.
Silas, a man who may be a vampire (though the word is never said) is every child's fantasy; A mysterious/magical guardian/friend who will tell you the truth when your parents will not.One thing I particularly liked about the book was the fact that Bod makes quite a few careless or thoughtless mistakes and yet you don’t feel particularly inclined to throttle him because of them.
It takes a graveyard to raise a child.  This is a summary of this magical, sweet and imaginative story for children, which (in a good tradition of the Brothers Grimm) started with a triple homicide.   “There was a hand in the darkness, and it held a knife.”  Neil Gaiman does not waste time with unicorns and princesses and butterflies which are often considered acceptable for children. He kicks off his book with the brutal murders of a child's entire family, written in a chilling tone that made
He even gets a vampire as his guardian and mentor - “There were people you could hug, and then there was Silas.”Given the Privilege of the Graveyard and taught how to Fade into the background, Bod spends his entire childhood playing among graves, learning his letters from the gravestones, running into trouble with some ghouls, being tutored by a werewolf with a taste for Eastern European food, dancing with Death, and making friends with the ghost of a young witch burned at stake.
(A-) 83% | Very GoodNotes: A bit too short, and the illustrations don’t really work. Still, it’s a fun, light and whimsical take on its macabre milieu.
I just don't think Neil Gaiman can write something I won't enjoy. His worlds are so rich and visceral, his characters so unique and loveable. I loved this story, loved Bod with all my heart, and was proud of him as he grew up. I listened to this audiobook, narrated by Neil Gaiman, and it was top notch. Can't wait for my next
He is given to the care of the Owens couple and named “Nobody,” Bod for short, as he looks like “nobody but himself.” Neil Gaiman - from The Verge In this Newbery Medal, Carnegie Medal and Hugo Award winning novel, it takes a graveyard to raise an actual corporate being, and there are many who chip in.
As Bod grows there are many interesting sorts who cross his path, a young witch lacking a gravestone, an unscrupulous dealer in antiques, a snake-like protector of a long-dead master, and an array of teachers.
One of Gaiman’s inspirations for this story was Kipling’s The Jungle Book, with Bod as Mowgli and the graveyard residents substituting, sometimes generically, for their animal counterparts in the earlier work.
Ένα μωράκι τη μοιραία νύχτα που δολοφονείται η οικογένεια του απο μια παράξενη αρχαία αδελφότητα καταφέρνει να σωθεί και να βρει καταφύγιο στο γειτονικό νεκροταφείο.
Έτσι το μωράκι που το ονομάζουν Καν (Κανένας) μεγαλώνει μέσα στο νεκροταφείο,συναναστρέφεται με κάθε είδους πνεύματα,απο αρχαίους Ρωμαίους και επισήμους βαρώνους, μεσαιωνικές μάγισσες, τρομερούς υπηρέτες μυστικών θησαυρών, τον αρχαίο λουλακί άντρα και πολλούς άλλους νεκρούς με καλή ή και κακή μεταθανάτια αύρα.
Οι ταφόπετρες είναι για τον Καν οι σκεπές των σπιτιών της γειτονιάς του.
Ο ίδιος ζει με σε έναν ζεστό τάφο-σπίτι και αποκαλεί γονείς του τα πνεύματα των Όουενς - ένα ζευγάρι πνευμάτων-που τον μεγαλώνουν απο μωρό.
This is how it usually goes with me and Neil Gaiman books:Scene: at the library.Picks up Stardust and reads back flap...
thinks, "hey, this looks like a great book.
What an interesting idea for a story..." When actually reading Stardust: bored.A couple months later.
At the library.Picks up Neverwhere...
This looks really interesting, but that's what I thought about Stardust.
Well, maybe I'll give him one last chance." When actually reading Neverwhere: stupid last chances!!!So I was a little hesitant to pick up The Graveyard Book.
So it's with gratitude that I say:Finally.
FINALLY!
You guys!https://emmareadstoomuch.wordpress.co...I just managed to get through a book - a whole freaking book - with no blatant sexism, racism, homophobia, girl-on-girl hate, instances of the beloved not like other girls trope, love triangles, flat characters, overused archetypes, that plotline where you discover your power and it’s consuming you, gag-worthy romance, weird writing quirks, overwrought emotion, social issues used to make it seem ~profound~, apocalyptically bad characters, or plot slowness.
(If you somehow have managed to see this review without seeing my Caraval review, 1) congrats and 2) I’ve declared settings to be my favorite thing.) This book takes places in a motherf*cking graveyard, baby.
Maybe I'll ask what's wrong with me, I mean, why don't I love Neil Gaiman as much as everyone else?
Maybe that's inevitable being that most of the characters in it are dead.
Gaiman's stories generally aren't to blame, either, in fact there are some flashes of real ingenuity in some of them.
But those aren't common occurrences and they're certainly not enough to sour the whole book.I don't know, if the doctor can't help me maybe I'll seek a second opinion from the librarian.
The riproaring adventures of Huck Finn's wiser half-brother; Harry Potter's long lost second cousin. A Mowgli doppleganger, admittedly so.When Tim Burton died*, the void was taken up, wholly, by Mr. Gaiman. When will "The Graveyard Book" become a film? Cannot wait to watch singin'/dancin' ghosts, not the usual rerecycled shit from some Disney classic. Hey, it worked like a charm with "Coraline"!*career-wise & art-wise
4 StarsMe reading has been all over the place lately.
I have been reading a lot of adult fantasy, YA fantasy, and just straight up middle grade books...and very little romance.
For whatever reason, this is just what I have felt like reading.
This was a cute, if creepy, little book.
It was for me what I expected The Little Prince to be, but alas, wasn't.
I really liked Bod and all the characters of the graveyard, especially Silas.
I also enjoyed Gaiman's writing style - which is a good thing, since I bought this as part of a four book box set.
There, done with synopsis.Many times I felt as if the book was tailor-made for a young mark monday, what with the eerie atmosphere, the ambiguity, the graveyard, adventure mixed with sadness, life and death existing side by side, and at the core of it all, an unusual and genuinely loving family – but a created family, not necessarily a family by blood.
At the end, it captures that wistfulness, that sweet sadness at the knowledge that growing up means you may never look at things the same way again, you can never go home again and if you do, that home will be a different place.
For example--if a boy lives in a graveyard his entire life, what happens if he needs to go to the dentist or take a shower or get vaccinated?
Also, at the end of the book, the ghosts just kind of release the main character into the world--the boy who is only 15 and has had almost no formal schooling in his entire life.
Yeah, I'm sure he'll do REALLY well on his own.Anyway, I didn't think it was a bad book, but it certainly wasn't a good one, and it was WAY below Neil Gaiman's usual standards.
When first reading Neil Gaiman’s wonderfully dark but playful fantasy The Graveyard Book, I instantly discovered that I liked it a lot. When I realized that The Graveyard Book was also Rudyard Kipling’s The Jungle Book, but updated to be gothic and macabre, with a boy not raised by wolves but ghosts, I loved it. Winner of the Hugo Award in 2009, this is a rival to Gaiman’s masterpiece American Gods. This is vintage Gaiman at his masterfully fantastic best, an heir to the Grandmaster throne of Ray Bradbury but a classic in its own right.
A friend of mine had an extra ticket to see Neil Gaiman's sold-out lecture in Denver last week, so we rode the bus downtown, walked a block or two, then turned a street corner, only to be startled by some 2,000 fervent fans wrapped around and around the building, shivering and salivating at the prospect of entering the doors.I was in awe of their devotion, and I felt like an imposter, too.
This week I introduced myself, properly, to Neil, by reading his 2008 Young Adult fiction, The Graveyard Book.
You can find this review and more on Booknest.I’ve now officially read every novel and short story and piece of nonfiction that Gaiman has published, outside of his graphic novels.
It was an adorable adventure, a dark version of The Jungle Book if Mowgli had been raised by ghosts instead of jungle predators.
Sometimes kids want to read something that scares them just a little, and Gaiman does that very well, both in this book and in Coraline.
This is a story about growing up, and it was lovingly told.
There is something about an author narrating their own books that is simply magical.
This is my third Gaiman novel. It's a spectacular masterpiece that delightfully blends the macabre with the grave (no pun intended) and the whimsical creating a haunting, mesmerizing allegorical tale about the ephemeral joys of childhood, the gradual transition to adulthood, and the philosophical dichotomy of life and death. "It is going to take more than just a couple of good-hearted souls to raise this child. It will take a graveyard." The Graveyard (a nature reserve), Old Town, England — Thre
With Bod's loving, adoptive spectral parents along with Silas, his lone guardian, they introduce him into a peculiar yet secure world of the graveyard.
Well, while inside the premises of the graveyard, Bod discovers things in the deepest, darkest part of that solitary hill and within its bowels lie mysterious artefacts guarded by a vigilant, ghastly sentinel.
As Gandalf would allude about living and passing, "All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given us" and that death is not the end.The Graveyard Book is a magnificent ode to childhood that I, myself, couldn't go back to and couldn't look at things the same way again.
I read the first chapter with a massive grin on my face because it was so obvious where this book was going, and it sounded marvellous.
“It will”, said Silas, “take a graveyard”Nobody’s, or Bod to his friends, has just had his parents murdered by “The Man named Jack.” Bod got away by wondering into the graveyard in an infantile escape from his cot.
Characters like a druidic warrior that protects the barrow next to the yard and a long dead Roman called Silas.Silas serves as Bod’s guardian, his teacher and his friend.
The story really appealed to my inner child like so few books have done before.
They made several others, and I turned them down, mostly because I didn't think the books were appropriate for group reading, but sometimes with the comment that I hadn't read them and therefore wasn't prepared to teach them.Students, smelling a chance to change the course of the discussion, immediately objected:"That is so unfair.
And I worried ...not a copycat plot, I hoped!As we moved deeper and deeper into the story, we found ourselves discussing Kipling's Jungle Book over and over again, comparing and contrasting motives in the classic we all knew and the new story we were reading for the first time.
Rating a 4.5What is a Halloween read without a story by Neil Gaiman.
But this time, I *listened* to the audio read by Neil Gaiman himself.
The story is of Nobody "Bod" Owens who grows up in a graveyard after his parents are murdered by a man named Jack.
Truly a wonderful book as it won a Newbery Medal and a Hugo Award.Now, the absolute best....having this one narrated by Neil himself.
I'm so glad I re-visited this one for Halloween and that I listened to the audio.
One for fans of ghosts, fans of original, inventive stories...and one for all Neil Gaiman fans.
I have just this moment closed the cover of THE GRAVEYARD BOOK, after loitering rather longingly over the acknowledgments and possibly the back jacket flap as well.I don't think I can manage a proper synopsis or review of this book -- about an orphaned boy who is raised by a graveyard of ghosts -- so I think I will just have to say that I love it very, very deeply.
If there are Susan Cooper fans out there longing for that sense of other from the Dark is Rising books, pick this book up.
This is the first book I ever read by Neil Gaiman and it is my favorite of his books.
I saw this book while volunteering in the library at my son's elementary school.
I checked it out using my son's library card thinking I would read it to him at bedtime.
Most of the book takes place in a graveyard.
A toddler (nobody or Bod) crawls into a graveyard after the old man "Jack" kills his family.
The book is about Bod and his adventures in around and out of the graveyard as he grows up.
We get to know Bod on his way through life as he finds a new family in the graveyard, experiences friendships and enmities, as he is taught supernatural abilities by the ghosts and learns about major significances between death and life.In the end, this book not only keeps its reader on the edge of the seat, it also explores a meta level by dealing with some more significant topics like losing beloved people and learning to care for others.
2009 Newbery Medal winner.I'm probably not the only person that would like to know the next chapter in Bod's life. Even Neil Gaiman may not know, but then again, maybe he does. But that's the nature of books, they end, and many times we are not satisfied, not completely. What a wonderful story, what imagination Gaiman has. Five stars and deserving. Children's literature at it's finest.
Mowgli's counterpart is Nobody Owens, affectionately known as Bod, who grows up in the graveyard the same way Mowgli grows up in the jungle: a human boy living like a ghost, existing in the twilight land between death and life.However, this book is much more than a take-off on Kipling's masterpiece.
Inspired by the timeless classic, Gaiman has created a masterpiece of his own: a book which can be enjoyed by old and young readers alike.
The novel exudes an old-world charm of the English countryside.But mind you, for all its lightheartedness, the main story is dead serious: literally a matter of life and death for its young protagonist.This is a fun read.
The Graveyard Book traces the story of the boy Nobody "Bod" Owens who is adopted and raised by the supernatural occupants of a graveyard after his family is brutally murdered.
The ghosts accept, and Mrs. Owens (the ghost who first discovered the baby) and her husband, Mr. Owens, become the foster parents.
The bulk of the book is about Nobody's (often called Bod) adventures in and out of the graveyard as he grows up.
These abilities are taught to Bod by his loving graveyard parents, his ghost teacher Mr. Pennyworth, and Silas.
this book was enjoyable - it is a little episodic-with-overarching- storyline number about a child living in a graveyard with the dead after a man slaughters his family with a knife.
maybe more?okay - now my class is officially over and i dont have a headache.
this is what i learned in class today: 1)no one writes fantasy novels for adults anymore.
2) young boys wont want to read this book because it starts out with a graphic murder, and little boys dont like that because its too much like a slasher film.
