https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36373463-us-against-you
Politics has invaded Beartown, the Hockey team and Peter’s life.
Beartown Hockey has received a new lease on life.
Benji, Amat, Bobo and Vidar (the new star goalie with a bad temper and a big heart).
He makes you feel every single thing his characters are feeling (whether it’s “Ove,” “Britt-Marie” or my Benji).
“Us Against You” is the sequel to Fredrik Backman’s “Beartown” which was one of my top two reads of last year, with Backman being my absolute favorite author.
“Us Against You” is a sequel with heart and it stole mine immediately.
I love your characters Mr. Backman.
Fredrik Backman has struck gold with the second book in the Beartown series, Us Against You. After I survived a book daze last year with the series debut, I read another of his works which catapulted Backman into my top 5 of favorite authors.
Once I learned he had written a second book in the Beartown series (they are all translated from Swedish) recently, I had to read this next one...
All the earlier characters are back in action, fighting to save the Beartown hockey team, protect Maya AND Kevin (her rapist).
It's questions like this that plague you as you read the book -- yet never ONCE does any character actually ask that.
That's precisely what I feel might happen each time I pick up a Backman novel set in the world of Beartown.
The all encompassing atmospheric nature of the book is claustrophobic in the best way, and will draw you in a little more with each phrase.People will say that violence came to Beartown this summer, but that won't be true, because it was already here.
He's a favorite among many other readers and for good reason; his character is deep, broken, and so lovable that he comes across as both aloof yet relatable.If you loved Beartown last year, I would highly recommend picking this up and reading it IMMEDIATELY.
I thought “Beartown” was *exceptional* - Backman’s darkest most complex book — It had ‘everything’: incredible stories about each of the characters.....centered around ice hockey- but it was much much more than that.
Even after finishing the entire book - it was still one of my favorite moments.There are many characters in this story we re- visit from Beartown -- and new characters who join in.
At times, I even got a little bored with some of the star characters from the last book.
Having the opportunity to revisit but then say goodbye once again to some of my favorite characters put me through the wringer: I laughed, I cried, I yelled.
While I was a little resistant to reading this, as Beartown had been a magical reading experience for me that I didn’t want to tarnish, in the end, I couldn’t resist the opportunity to go back to Beartown and I am glad I did!I was so very excited, but also a little nervous going into this.
Having loved Beartown, my expectations were extremely high.
In the beginning, I was shocked to find I couldn’t connect to the characters or the storyline.
Backman crawled in my chest and found each heartstring.Then he pulled .
Welcome to about 50 different lives – not all of whom you will agree with, but in the end you will likely sympathize or empathize with.
I have had some great experiences with Backman.
But, I was glad to get back to Beartown and Backman remains one of my favorite current authors.My only warning on this duology is that there is some difficult subject matter.
I think Backman does a great job handling it all, but I cannot speak for other readers.
I know my wife found the first book a bit intense.Read Beartown!
Read Us Against You!
We return to the place where hockey is loved with a religious passion, defining the community identity, with returning old and new characters.
Beartown simmers with violence just waiting to be unleashed, presenting a challenge and quandries to community and individuals.Thanks to manipulative political decisionmaking, the nearby town of Hed gains the resources and many of Beartown's hockey players, igniting strong feelings of them and us as a new hockey team is set up in response.
Just absolutely brilliant reading, intense, twisted, gripping, full of suspense and I understand that another Beartown novel will follow, I look forward to renewing my acquaintance with these much loved characters.
Beartown is a hockey town by a forest in Sweden, but that won’t tell you much unless you know what it means to be a hockey town where lives are dominated by the sport and the thought of losing the team is devastating to so many.
I was anxious to know what has happened with them - Maya, Leo , Amat, Benji , Ramona and others.Beartown is about to lose its team and the resources will go to their rivals in the town of Hed. It’s a loss for the Five Uncles who sit at the bar each day and now won’t have anything to talk about .
"...we only pretend hockey is complicated, because it isn't really. When you strip away all the nonsense surrounding it, the game is simple: everyone gets a stick, there are two nets, two teams. Us against you."Frederick Backman's  Beartown  (see my review) was probably the best or second-best book I read last year. This story of a Swedish town that is literally obsessed with hockey, and which faces a crisis that will practically tear the town apart, surprised, delighted, and devastated me, all
This story of a Swedish town that is literally obsessed with hockey, and which faces a crisis that will practically tear the town apart, surprised, delighted, and devastated me, all over the course of a few short hours as I plowed through it very late one night.Given how I felt about that book, I approached the sequel, 
That's where Backman keeps surprising you.God, I hope there's a third book.
A sullen, yet optimistic examination of a town suffering an identity crisis and the residents who must learn to adjust to a new normal-While many of us became fans of Fredrik Backman because of his unique ability to weave whimisical stories, featuring quirky, but loveable characters.
Us Against You is the follow-up novel to Beartown and deals with the fallout and ramifications of the events that transpired in the first book, beginning with Maya’s assault accusations, which turned her family into pariahs.When Peter learns that Beartown’s hockey team will be dismantled, he finds himself at the mercy of local politicians with their own shady agendas.
'beartown' is one of my absolute favourite books (see my review here), so its only fitting that 2018 is barely halfway over and i already know ‘us against you’ will be the best book i will have read this year, if ever.
fredrik backman is one of the most talented storytellers i have ever read and this book is proof.
his words are so rich and full, that i can only read so much at a time because there is just so much to savour, so much to cherish.
i am of the strong opinion that fredrik backmans work will considered and taught as classic literature in the years to come.
I fell in love with Beartown last year by Backman and had the highest expectations for Us Against You. Well..
don't worry your pretty little heads because Backman delivers exceptionally well ONCE again.Backman delivers a raw and beautifully well executed novel that makes you feel vulnerable in ways you can't imagine!
I will wear a bear on my sleeve eternally <3 <3.The characters are what MAKES this novel.
Backman is truly so talented and how effortlessly he allows his readers to see how complex, raw, and REAL the characters are.
I would definitely say to read Beartown to get the full background of the characters.
Politics and sports should never mix, as many will find out by books end.So many times I put this book down, to think about what I just read, to wonder at this author and his insightful comments, and yes, because I was overcome with emotion.
(The marshmallow effect strikes again.) This author shows us,  The best and worst of living in a small town.
Tackles many of the problems inherint in small towns, weaving a story that I didn't want to end.
By books end, he had broken my heart, in the best and worst possible way.ARC from Netgalley.
After I read Beartown I felt as though it was complete story and so I was a little surprised that the author chose to revisit the town again.The first 30% of the book dealt pretty much with getting the reader caught up with the characters from Beartown and what had happened the previous year.
I really couldn’t understand how someone could care so little about the people he was about to hurt.A lot of time is spent on “The Pack” and it’s influence in the town.
I’m sure many, many people will be glad to revisit the town but for me it was bittersweet and the ending still left with me with lots of unanswered questions.
“It’s so easy to get people to hate each other.
Hate is so simple that it always ought to win.
Once I got into the characters that make up the town and the hockey team that the town revolves around, it stood on its own just fine.
Beartown is a small town, and their biggest rival is another small town, Hed. After Beartown is divided because an evil act of violence, many of the best of their hockey players leave to play for Hed. Beartown gets a new coach, who’s ready to rebuild the team.We watch as families and towns fracture and repair.
4+ Stars No hockey in BEARTOWN? It just can't be! We all know hockey is an addiction in this small failing community....the only thing really, except for snow, icy roads and a thick (sometimes dangerous) forest where one can hide....or discover secrets. It's still a hard life hereabouts....harder for some after the scandal....it affected so many....some took their revenge....others are still hurting....and some so burned with hatred, they now turn to violence.In the sequel, US AGAINST YOU Fredri
I also wanted to know exactly what happened to one character who left early on and another who takes off in the end....but perhaps that is a story for another time.A great story....Yep!
US AGAINST YOU has only left me wanting more Backman.So..........do come back to BEARTOWN and visit your favorite characters (oh Benji)....see what some of them do (oh my) and how the new ones fit in (ha!) as BEARTOWN struggles for survival.Many Thanks to Atria Books/Simon & Schuster for the widget and early reading opportunity to enjoy one of my favorite authors via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
!! NOW AVAILABLE !! ”In his final season, on his final nightBuddy and a Finn goon were pegged for a fightThirty seconds left, the puck took a rollAnd suddenly Buddy had a shot on goal“The goalie committed, Buddy picked his spotTwenty years of waiting went into that shotThe fans jumped up, the Finn jumped tooAnd coldcocked Buddy on his follow throughThe big man crumbled but he felt all right'Cause the last thing he sawwas the flashing red lightHe saw that heavenly light  -- Hit Somebody!(The Hoc
There is no anonymity in Beartown for the people who live there.
If you’ve read Backman’s Beartown, then you’re familiar with this town, and most of the people who live there, but some new characters are introduced, as well.
I loved how introspective this was, how we learn the story of this town and the people through their thoughts and feelings, their frustrations, their concerns, the hurt and shame and anger some carry with them.
I loved, love, this town and these people, loved their loyalty to this place and when it came down to it, their loyalty to each other.
What I didn't like about it is far more complicated, so let's discuss that in greater detail.While I did love the characters in this book, I only think that's the case because I got to know them so well in the first book, Beartown, which I gave a glowing five-star review to.
In Beartown, the book seemingly dragged for 60 pages while I got to know everyone, and then BAM, it all clicked, and I enjoyed the rest of the book.
The story is fine, and if there's a third book, I'll read it, but only because I cannot imagine where Backman will go from here, considering how this one ends.
I can honestly say I can now die a happy person. An emotional mess, yes. But happy nonetheless that I’ve finally read my long awaited book.
Old characters reappear and new characters are introduced in this book, the follow-up to last year's phenomenal hit, Beartown.
There's drama, marital difficulties, bullying, rivalries, political machinations, and heartbreak.
This book may not have the impact of Beartown but fans will have much to enjoy with this new novel.
Backman excels at insights into human nature and writing characters that are easy to care for.The writing is beautiful with excellent character development.
I didn't really care about the political maneuverings, which slowed the story down for me a bit, and I have a lot of difficulty understanding sports culture/rivalries.
Looking at the ratings, there seems to be very few who do not believe in the validity of this tale and although I have many misgivings about this book, I do feel there was merit in its telling.What I liked most were the people who stood by one another.
Yes, that indeed did happen and for a brief moment in time, those teams, those towns did come together and become one.
It was brief that moment, but it did offer that faint hope that in all things we can as a people come together as one.
5 fantastically wild bear chants to raise the rink roof  Beartown was one of my favorite books of 2017 and so it comes as no surprise that book two in the Swedish hockey town trilogy was highly anticipated  and it didn't disappoint.
For maximum enjoyment I would encourage future readers to  read Beartown  first to fully understand the characters.
As many of my fellow reviewers have stated, this particular trilogy isn't about curmudgeonly men and women, but ALL people.
Finally, I am as sure as I was when reading  Beartown  that towns like this one do exist.
This is the sixth Fredrik Backman book I read.
We are acquainted with many of them from his previous novel, Beartown (also known as Scandal in other countries).Again, at the centre of this novel we have the Beartown Hockey Team manager – Peter Andersson, his lawyer wife, Kira, their kids, Maya, 16 and Leo, 12.
There are some new characters, who are given more or less air-time.I loved the pacing of the book and how Backman kept adding layer, upon layer, upon layer, creating a tower of tension about to topple.This is another ambitious novel that deals with trauma, parenting, friendship, small town mentalities, homophobia, sexism, and politics.
Many thanks to Atria Books allowing me to read this novel.
I think my sadness on reading this book is not only from the book but from the life of the world around me that it represents, where emotions are manipulated by those in a position to do so, communities are set artificially against one another so they won’t notice that the powers that be are plotting against both.
Or perhaps I wish for something merely different, nicer, more pleasing.Another thought I had since I finished reading is to wonder if I might have liked the style of the book better if I had read it more quickly.
I can’t explain about each character alone because there is a whole town, but I like them all!!🌟 And as the author keeps saying “This is not a fairy tale”, there are no miracles happening for the sake of entertaining readers, this was as real as it could be and many things ended up being satisfying without me ever knowing that!🌟 The writing style is beautiful too.
You come out at nightThat's when the energy comesAnd the dark side's lightAnd the vampires roamYou strut your rasta wearAnd your suicide poemAnd a cross from a faithThat died before Jesus cameYou're building a mystery Sarah McLachlanTake a look around.
It is easy to see that this story is a big hit with readers.
And it is easy to see why.
So why the middle of the road rating?
I mean I loved Beartown, but this one failed to resonate with me.
As evidenced by an average rating of 4.44 from over three thousand readers, there can be no doubt that the vast majority of readers loved this.
No doubt I missed out.
4.5 stars Dare I say that I enjoyed this even more than  Beartown??? I just love the characters so much, so getting to spend more time with them and see them develop even more was fantastic. Backman knows how to throw a gut punch too and this book had me gasping, laughing and tearing up. I can't say much more because it is a sequel and it doesn't come out until June, but I really loved it and will continue to read anything he publishes! Thanks again to Atria Books for sending an early copy my way!
We have no pause button for when everything gets too much for us to deal with, but then neither does anyone else.”― Fredrik Backman, Us Against You It feels as if it took me FOREVER to finish this book, but it wasn't because I didn't like it.
It's just a heavy sort of book, and though it is written in the same vein as Backman's other books (all of which I loved), I somehow felt this was so melancholy that I couldn't read too much of it at a time.
At the same time, Backman imbues the book with a sense of undying hopefulness and it is this and his beautiful observations about human nature which make it another memorable read for me.
Moreover, many people blame the girl who was raped for the unhappy situation and frequently text her slurs like "Whore, Liar, Princess." 😫Angry fans want the rape victim's family to leave town, and start a campaign of harassment - getting moving companies to call the house and deliver packing boxes to the front door.
It seems like very few people, except for the victim's family and her best friend, understand (or care) that the girl was severely traumatized by the assault.
Theo constantly lies and manipulates people to get what he wants, but he does manage to keep the hockey league in business.
Backman takes the reader back to Beartown in this sequel, as the town seeks to dig itself out of the quandary that all but decimated the junior hockey team.
In a novel that creates a competition out of most every aspect of small towns and their love of sports, Backman fuels the inner passion each person has to win when faced with adversity.
The story transcends the ‘puck in the net’ mentality of a hockey novel, but creates strong divides for the reader to choose a side, as many of the characters navigate through the clashes inherent with trying to bring Beartown out of the ashes.
