https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22628.The_Perks_of_Being_a_Wallflower
DISCLAIMER: I did not like this book. I am about to try to explain why that is so, here, in my own, personal review space. I am critiqing this book, based on my own opinions, personal taste, experiences and perspective, criteria and standards for literary work. It is entirely subjective, as I think all reviews, per definition, are.I mean no disrespect to the people who like this book, and who have found in it something of value. You are as entitled to your own opinion, subjective readingexperie
I want to underline that I look at Charlie as a written character, not a real person, and I value the book as a literary piece of work, not as a real life story.
It’s one of the things that can make or break a book for me.In this case, the writing  style  just didn't work for me.It was just too  lacking .Maybe it's the whole premise of the book, a story narrated by someone who is emotionally inhibited as Charlie, that didn't work for me?
Many people are filled with sadness, but don’t produce many tears.
If, like me, you lurk on frequent tumblr, you will have realised that there is only so far you can scroll before you hit something like this: Stephen Chbosky’s epistolary novel has something of a cult following, and the quotes that litter the internet seem almost anthemic, given the passion with which they are re-blogged, quoted, slapped across artfully light-leaked photographs and “liked”. A generation appears to have adopted The Perks of Being a Wallflower, and by extension it’s narrator Charl
And not in the sense that I think the events are unrealistic, necessarily, but more that (and I offer this opinion with some trepidation) at times Perks reads like it’s a bit in love with its own moroseness.
While some of Charlie’s emotional state is explained at the end of the novel, I feel that there’s even more to Charlie than Chbosky ever reveals, hinted at by the apparent naivety of his fifteen / sixteen years.What I did appreciate, and what ultimately caused me to like this book, was how accurately Charlie’s experiences with anxiety and depression were presented.
Wallflower (noun)a shy or retiring person who remains unnoticed at social events, especially a woman without a dance partner I decided to read this book not because there was going to be a movie coming out soon.It one of the reasons but then again it wasn’t the main one.I wanted to read it because the word “wallflower” caught my attention.I was a wallflower.I was not one of those kids people notice immediately.I was one of those people who blends in very well that I was no longer noticeable.I w

February 25, 2013Dear Charlie,I am writing to you because I feel like you're the only one that would listen to me right now.
I guess what I'm trying to do is thank you for being there for me these last couple of days.
You showed me the purity of feelings, beauty of thoughts, generosity of love and warmth of friendship.
I'd like to think that you get better, I hope one day you can be honest with people you love, be who you really are and do what you want to do.
Love always  Karolina
It appeared, Charlie's inability to identify any emotion within himself besides sadness, his constant crying, his lack of knowledge (at the age of 15) what masturbation was, his failure to understand any social situation (like a rape while witnessing it in his teen years) was indicative of either some form of autism or just severe mental immaturity.
What does it say about Stephen Chbosky's writing abilities if his supposedly intelligent teen narrator sounds like a 7-year old?
But I perked up at the idea of reading a book by a narrator with obvious learning difficulties and/or autism*.
Imagine my surprise and confusion when I discovered that not only does Charlie not have any learning difficulties, but he is actually considered "intelligent beyond his years", is apparently extremely talented and somehow manages to get straight-A grades.
Well, wait a few more chapters and we get drugs, incest, fights, first sexual experiences and masturbation, told through the eyes of a guy who sounds about eight but is actually a teenager.I didn't feel sad or moved or anything so, like I said, maybe this is a character flaw on my part.
Charlie has an honest innocence to him yet such an intense depth and intelligent mind that he is quite the multifaceted character.While the story has its ups and downs, and really, there isn't a very intense plot, the reader is somehow sucked into Charlies head sharing his first kiss, his feelings toward his new friends, his feelings towards literature and music.
He not only deals with issues like love, but also having a gay friend, dealing with death, and sexual assault, but also sharing his love of music and literature, which I think are two things that are being lost on youth today.I would give this book to every teenage boy and girl I knew.
THIS BOOK ALWAYS BRINGS ME SO MANY FEELS. 3rd time re-reading it and I still feel infinite.
‘‘Charlie, we accept the love we think we deserve.’’ That is quite true. I have stumbled across many beautiful sentences, throughout my reading, and ones that make us think but, this one, is my absolute favorite of them all.There is so much that can be said about this, yet I don’t seem to find the right words, but I will try my best. It was such an… emotional, deep and realistic story. The plot was simple, if we only look at it as a whole, but every detail contributed to make it an incredible r
LGBT has always been a dear theme to me and reading about how sad, beautiful and poignant Patrick’s love for Brad was really touched me and I only wished, throughout the story, that they would both have their happily-ever-after because, even though they may not have been perfect, they deserve it.I saw multiple reviewers complain about the writing.
It was indeed simplistic but, like Charlie himself said in the story, he writes the way he speaks.
I don't even think I can truly convey how much I loved this book other than to say it was entirely life changing and I'm so upset it took me this long to read it.
All I have to say to the author is...REALLY? Are you effing kidding me right now?? Charlie is a freshman, a loner and an odd duck, all wrapped up in one stunningly awkward package. How awkward? Cripplingly so.  I am very interested and fascinated how everyone loves each other, but no one really likes each other. He's always been a bit....out there...but his family knows how to handle his moods and step around his antics.  So, this is my life. And I want you to know that I am both happy and sad a
Only, he's now in high school, and the things he would get away with in middle school aren't exactly going to fly now that he's in the big leagues, and he's having difficulties adjusting.Luckily, he met Sam and and a few other friends...and with them, things are finally looking up.So. Sooooo.Sooooooooooooooo.......here's my problems with this novel - it ticks too many boxes, The Charlie Cringe and I honestly thought the novel was going a completely different direction.
If I would have read this book in high school I think I would be absolutely in love with it because of the fact, that probably, like most of us at one point in our teens, I felt like an outsider like Charlie.
(Even though I still want to know who he was writing to and what that person thought as they received the letters.) The events in the book seemed real as if they happened in my own high school.
(Remember that memory you called the first one you ever remembered?) I sometimes felt like the things you were pouring out in your letters were a little too personal, but you let me into your head, into your heart, into your soul.
Thank you very much for the pop culture references - you surely made me add more books and more songs and more "films" to my to-check-out list!I'm a little sad that I haven't gotten any more letters from you after that last one, but I understand.
Thank you for letting me feel infinite.Love always,Your friend
The book be like - CRY, BITCH.After 50 pages I would have written that The Perks of Being a Wallflower was poorly written, boring and tasteless.After 100 pages I would have clapped because really, wow, Stephen Chbosky really did want to tick all the strong issues boxes, haha.
I am very sorry for all the people on Earth who loved this book, and know that this review isn't about you.
And yes, when something like abuse is dealt in TWO pages, I do get the feeling that the book is telling me to move the fuck on.
He was always more of the shy understanding type who would “use thought to not participate in life.” (pg.24)"The world of first dates and mix tapes, family dramas and new friends, the world of sex, drugs and the rocky horror picture show, when all you need is that perfect song on that perfect drive to feel infinite…" (Back cover) When I read certain books, or certain lines I can get the chills.
Don’t take me wrong though, everyone should read it, but at their own time.This book has inspired me to try and do so much more.
this book is long summer nights, spent with those we so carefully let in, not caring about what the next year of school would bring.
just those evenings where our only companions were the stars.
because in those moments, i swear we were infinite.
thats what this book is.
those moments that truly define who we are and what happiness to means to us.
this book is our teenage years filled with friendship, and angst, and heartbreak, and future planning, and everything in between.
my heart will always belong to the memories of this book.
↠ 4.5 stars
You want to find out what the deal is with the main character for the entire book and at the end, you eventually get a pretty damn good idea.
You find out at the end why he is so weird, but the catch-22 about this book for me is that a kid with his kind of emotional issues probably never would have been able to experience the kind of social interaction he experiences and writes about throughout the book.
In the book, the big denouement is catalyzed when he finally makes out with a girl he's had a crush on the whole book.
I read their reviews and most of the older ones said something like “the teenagers seem to like this book.” while the younger ones said something like “I see myself in the Charlie’s character when I was his age.” So, I said maybe I should read this again, imagining that I was a 15-y/o man and see if I can relate to Charlie.That did the trick for me.
He is like a medical case in autism that whatever went inside his head while reading or the events that happened in his life during that year, 1991-1992 did not affect in anyway his outlook in life.
Drugs, abuse, child molestation, anything that would make people cry & be traumatizing for a teenager, it's all here in overdose, injected wherever possible into every character's life. How can the author be such a douche.I felt emotionally manipulated by this inconsistently written, I'm-trying-to-be-deep-and-real-and-strike-emotional-chords crying fest.So I Hulk-smashed it into the recycling bin.God.
It was the first book which I had to read, that I absolutely loved.
It is a story about a boy named Charlie who just started high school.
well to whoever is reading this book.
At the beginning, I didn't quite like Charlie as a character.
But as the book went, I started liking him more and more.
One more thing that I absolutely loved was the friendship between Charlie, Sam and Patrick.
I also loved that this book felt so nostalgic.
So in conclusion, I loved this book, and I can't say how much I'm glad that I've finally read it.
This is one of those books that has been on my TBR for years. I’m glad I finally made the time to listen to it. Charlie’s story is an endearing coming of age tale. It’s a journey. Charlie is finding himself, who his true friends are, and really coming into his own. I loved Charlie’s character. He was such a real and genuine person. Sam and Patrick were fantastic, too. Now that I’ve finally made the time to read this, I’m looking forward to watching the film!
Or maybe Chbosky didn't even realize what he was portraying.See, I love a mildly autistic kid.
Charlie's friends?Sam & Patrick were 20somthing hipsters that do not exist in high school.
You thought you were waaay more mature than you really were.
Ok, I get why they don't like it, but it happens.I did all of that when I was in high school.Although, once again, I wasn't quite as cool or mature about it as these guys.
If you want to align yourself with the bury-your-head-in-the-sand groups, then I can almost guarantee they'll think you're stupid, too.
Well, let me think...
One minute he seemed wise beyond his years and the next he acted like a child thrust into a teenage life.There were also a couple of scenes that I didn't think were believable.
It would have been a great voice had it not been so fraught with inconsistencies, had it not been so hard to figure out, and had it not made so many observations about what adults must think that didn't feel real (more like Chbosky telling us what teenagers will learn when they aren't teenagers anymore).
Plus, I liked the feeling of the epilogue, the way I felt bittersweet and nostalgic when I closed the book.
It smacks of a forced whimsy and I bet you that nobody actually knows what it means because they don't want to be outed as a non-cool kid, so everyone pretends that it's deep instead of perhaps the matter of the truth - that it probably doesn't make any sense and therefore means squat all.This quote just makes me think of this: The Infinite Cat Project.
Actually secretly, I probably just wanted to make fun of hipsters and also the very Nineties photo of the author on the back cover (is that a chambray shirt I see?).What I didn't expect was to like it.
*5 Stars* A touching and emotional portrayal of an ordinary boy finding his significance...The brilliance and beauty of this book is discreet and quiet.
There is no specific plot design; no standard structure this story follows, In fact, at first glance, you may be inclined to believe that Charlie, with his ordinary life and underwhelming social status, is not so significant.
This book doesn't act as a guide on how to handle such issues, it simply passes through an emotional piece of a young boy's life*
Humble and extremely insightful.▪	 Plot: A young boy finding his significance in life.
The Perks of Being a Wallflower, Stephen ChboskyThrough Charlie, Stephen Chbosky has created a deeply affecting coming-of-age story, powerful novel that will spirit you back to those wild and poignant roller coaster days known as growing up.August 25, 1991 Dear friend, I am writing to you because she said you listen and understand and didn’t try to sleep with thatperson at that party even though you could have.
I just need to know that someone out there listens and understands and doesn’t try to sleep withpeople even if they could have.
I need to know that these people exist.
Passivity vs. Passion … Yes Charlie ~~ I know all too well what it’s like. Charlie is an outsider ~~ a typical wallflower. He gets bullied at school and prefers taking the forty minute walk home instead of the school bus. Written in the form of letters from Charlie to an anonymous recipient, it is a compelling read. Don't let its simplicity fool you, as this book has much depth. Readers learn that Charlie has many secrets that have been entrusted to him; one in particular has caused him to beco
(view spoiler)[He passively witnesses a rape, has a girlfriend he doesn't really like, aids his sister in getting an abortion, takes drugs and alcohol others give him, smokes, and even lets his grieving gay friend Patrick kiss him just to make Patrick feel better.
For the first time in his life, Patrick knows what it really means to have good friends.Charlie's immediate family is loving and supportive.
This book is going to catch and surprise you every time you turn a page.In a series of letters written by Charlie and sent to an anonymous person we learn about his life, his new friends, his family and especially Charlie himself.
Bloody awful. Imagine this: The Catcher In The Rye was fucked rough by A Million Little Pieces. The zygote's DNA was re-spliced with 1980's panic journalism and bombarded with x-rays for six months. It was then delivered premature on a bloody altar beneath a full moon and methodically, repeatedly dropped on its head by Chuck Palahniuk.Any plot whose central premise is an amnesia of the daytime TV variety belongs in a very special category. For me that category is "books to be burned with their authors atop the pyre."If you loved it, fuck you.
Considering how gifted and smart Charlie is, I would have expected his writing to be a little better, but as it is, the book was like reading my old high school diaries, and I'm still suffering from secondhand embarrassment.
I know that's wrong because it's my responsibility, and I know that things get worse before they get better because that's what my psychiatrist says, but this is a worse that feels too big."(quick note to all the teenagers reading this review: that feeling that Charlie is describing doesn't go away when you leave high school.
And I think there's a lot of things I missed out on or didn't sympathize with as much when I read it as a younger teenager.
There are a lot of things I love about this book.First of all, it covers a lot of important issues without (usually) coming off as too preachy or trying to be too controversial.
I mean, everyone's life in this book is really screwed up––and while I think addressing all these issues is important, it does feel like overkill at times and not entirely realistic.
back to what I was saying.So, I think that's what's the most important thing about this book.
