https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53109.Duino_Elegies_and_The_Sonnets_to_Orpheus
Who's turned us around like this,so that whatever we do, we always havethe look of someone going away? Just as a manon the last hill showing him his whole valleyone last time, turns, and stops, and lingers -so we live, and are forever leaving. (70) When was the last time you look at the stars? Feeling the bittersweet breeze of the night in your face. A face only illuminated by the distant light of the stars. Alone with your thoughts, feeling you can do anything. Go anywhere. This book is an inv
Will you look at the stars tonight?This book includes Rilke's most celebrated works: Duino Elegies and The Sonnets to Orpheus.
(16)Angels depict the distant and unbearable beauty that humans apparently will never reach on Earth.
I must say, I haven't read something so beautifully strange since my encounter with Rimbaud.It is a cruel norm established by one merciless being: tormented souls are the ones that can bring beauty to everything they touch.
Mystery I hope I can unveil the next time I read this book.June 1, 14* Also on my blog.Notes: -This is a bilingual edition, so those who speak German will be able to appreciate Rilke's magnificent poetry without the intervention of another person.
I've never really liked poetry unless I'm teaching it because only then do I take the time to appreciate it. Yet, even without deep analysis so many poems can elicit immediate visceral responses to poignant imagery and intense emotion. For that reason, I've decided to make this Jameson's bedtime reading :-)Different poems have different effects on his slumber:Some cause him to think deeplyOthers drive him into hidingSome inspire a triumphant cheerAnd others he just fucking hatesFinally, some are so shocking that he can't even sleep
"A panteraDe percorrer as grades o seu olhar cansou-se e não retém mais nada lá no fundo,como se a jaula de mil barras fossee além das barras não houvesse mundo.O andar elástico dos passos fortes dentro da ínfima espiral assim traçada é uma dança da força em torno ao centro de uma grande vontade atordoada.Mas por vezes a cortina da pupila ergue-se sem ruído — e uma imagem então vai pelos membros em tensão tranquila até desvanecer no coração."
Yesterday our campus bookstore had a sale and so I went and bought books including this one. Then instead of doing math homework I laid in the grass and read Rilke out loud to myself for two hours. I didn't mind that my throat got dry after a while.
A constant companion.Rilke's verse has been attempted by many a translator (Edward Snow and Stephen Mitchell are favorites), but not one has truly approached the master himself.
For the Greeks, the poet was a "maker" (poeites) who coaxed new creations out of language.
Rilke does not merely create from language; he recreates language itself, bending the rigid German language into fluid shapes, startling sounds.
For these final poems to the Angel and to Orpheus, Lorca's poem "Abajo" might serve as the best commentary: El espacio estrellado se refleja en sonidos.
Lianas espectrales.
The expansiveness of starspace reflects itself in sounds.
Lonelier now, dependent on one anotherutterly, though not knowing one another at all,*Does it really exist, Time, the Destroyer?[…]Are we really as fate keeps trying to convince us,weak and brittle in an alien world? *Silent friend of many distances, […]Let your presence ring out like a bellinto the night. *More than we experienced has gone by. *All is far - and nowhere does the circle close.
It seems wrong to mark this as "read", as I don't think I will ever be done with it. There is infinity here.
But then the Sixth and Seventh Elegies form a moving triptych with the Eighth, my favourite.
Rilke muses on the human condition filtered through the archetypes of the hero and those who die young.Unser Leben geht hin mit Verwandlung … Also the Ninth Elegy has a lot to offer:Aber weil Hiersein viel ist, und weil uns scheinbaralles das Hiesige braucht, dieses Schwindende, dasseltsam uns angeht.
Uns, die Schwindendsten.Or in Stephen Mitchell’s admirable translation:But because truly being here is so much; because everything here apparently needs us, this fleeting world, which in some strange waykeeps calling to us.
Und wir auch ein Mal. Nie wieder.
I need mindfulness training from Rilke.
I find the story of the genesis of these poems almost as interesting as the poems themselves: Rilke's years of depression, his experience in WWI, the somewhat exotic location of their composition, all culminating in Rilke's "hurricane of the spirit" and the feverish completion of these poems.I can't comment on the translation of these poems since this is the only time I've read them.
Extraordinary.I am neither a Rilke expert or German linguist but, from what little I know, Stephen Mitchell's translations here are exquisite.
Rilke's poems are notoriously difficult to capture in other languages, and the Elegies and Sonnets are no exception.
However, Mitchell not only takes each line into consideration, he also accounts for the whole of each piece.
Within this, Rilke's poems themselves are stunning, and I can see myself returning over and over again to this volume for insight and inspiration.
I highly recommend this book for anyone interested in seeing the original German alongside Mitchell's translation and also for anyone fascinated by the most essential "Things" in life.
Rilke xoxoxo

Rainer Maria Rilke is one of my all-time favorite poets - an artist of stunningly original gifts. I always read his work in German, which is a special gift, because although I have translated his work myself, so much of the original genius is untranslatable. Nonetheless, I recommend that everyone give the English a try and glance now and then at the German originals.
I had hoped for some rich, deep, serious poetry. Instead I read this overripe mind-numbing emotionless pile. It seems like every poem starts line one with a small thought and then RAPTURE ANGELS LUMINOSITY WOO WOO. If Rilke has a poetic voice, it's one I don't care for.
«¿De quién podemos valernos? No de ángeles ni de hombres.»Más versos en: http://los-reflejos.blogspot.com.es/2...
Dad read this to me at bedtime see . I must admit...it did put me to sleep.
A nice edition but Stephen Mitchell's translation hits me the hardest.
poetry is hard to translate
Emmanuel Carneiro Leão, introdução.[...] Não já é tempo de, amando, [nos libertar e, tremendo, resistir ao amado: [como a flecha resiste à corda a fim de, toda concentrada [no impulso, [ser mais do que ela mesma?
Pois em parte alguma há [permanência.[...] Toda mudança surda do mundo traz consigo deserdados, [a quem não pertence o que foi antes nem o que está [próximo.
[Pois, para os homens, mesmo o mais próximo é distante.[...] Quem nos torceu assim para [estarmos, em tudo que fazemos, [na atitude de quem [parte?
Daquele que, [na última colina, ao se mostrar, [pela última vez, todo o vale, volta-se, para e demora -, [é assim que vivemos, sempre nos despedindo.
Rilke is most inspired when he is most concise. He can crystalize beautiful images, trimming the superficial, into just a few words. Like Tobias, it feels like his way to his poems was inspired by a beautiful youth and we can get a glimpse of something that lies beyond our material existence. Poulin's translation has a nice flow to it and does justice to the poems, despite the lack of rhyme. The fact that the original version is there allows us to get the feeling of Rilke's musicality and rhythmic prowess.
I'd rather read George Barker, but the endnotes reminded about the mystical properties of the willow branch.
Not really my style of poetry.
an essential collection that holds up after multiple rereads
Another favorite of mine that I will take wherever I go. Many lines ring in my heart. "And if the world has ceased to hear you, say to the silent earth: I flow. To the rushing water speak: I am."
absolute master-piece
Previously I gave a poor rating to an edition of The Duino Elegies; this book proves that it was the translation at fault, not the Rilke.
The greatest book I have ever read. So much beauty, so much truth.
With all its eyes the natural world looks out into the Open. Only our eyes are turned backward, and surround plant, animal, child like traps, as they emerge into their freedom. We know what is really out there only from the animal's gaze; for we take the very young child and force it around, so that it sees objects-not the Open, which is so deep in the animals' faces. Free from death. We, only, can see death; the free animal has its decline in back of it, forever, and God in front, and when it
Only our eyes are turned backward, and surround plant, animal, child like traps, as they emerge into their freedom.
We know what is really out there only from the animal's gaze; for we take the very young child and force it around, so that it sees objects-not the Open, which is so deep in the animals' faces.
We, only, can see death; the free animal has its decline in back of it, forever, and God in front, and when it moves, it moves already in eternity, like the fountain.
-O Earth: invisible!
Earth, my dearest, I will.
to nature's whole supply of speechless, dumb, and also used up things, the unspeakable sums,rejoicing, add yourself and nullify the count." Not to say there aren't great sonnets in there too, but my overall impression was one of disgust at this wonderful poet - what's more human than poetry?
Add this to the apparent desire for a god to save us from the injustice and suffering so perfectly evoked in the elegies (uh...
couldn't we save ourselves?), and my brain explodes.
Because the whole thing is so beautiful, and at once so horrible, that there's nothing else for my brain to do.
