https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61666.Contact
A smart story crafted by a real space science guru  WE CAN'T BE ALONE The universe is a pretty big place. If it's just us, seems like an awful waste of space.When I read this book, back then in 1997, I did it like a couple of months before of being able to watch the film adaptation. (And I am truly glad that I was able to get the movie in blu-ray, a few months ago in this year, 2014))This is truly great novel and it's written by one of the most respected scientist in the field about science of
(And I am truly glad that I was able to get the movie in blu-ray, a few months ago in this year, 2014))This is truly great novel and it's written by one of the most respected scientist in the field about science of outer space, Carl Sagan.Readers who enjoy techno-thrillers in the style of Michael Chrichton, I am sure that they will find this book the same as enjoyable.
Sagan is able to merge all his factual science knowledge with strong theories and very possible science fiction.If you want to read about a "first contact" with an alien intelligence in a form as "real" as possible, this is your novel.
This book is all about Vegans.... Just not the kind you're thinking about!(3.5) Interesting first contact with aliens but the writing was quite dry.
When she returns to Earth, she has no immediate way to support her story - but she has been given enough of a clue that she knows how to find objective evidence, which she duly does.
She also makes another surprising discovery.In the movie, she comes back and can't justify her story in any way...
________________________________For people who haven't seen the famous xkcd cartoon (I hadn't until this morning):________________________________I had not come across his letter until I saw it just now, but apparently Sagan told Warner Brothers straight out that he was unhappy with what they'd done to the movie.
Feeling sorry about that, I decided to read Sagan’s nonfiction instead, to give him another chance.The problem I had with the novel was similar to my experience with 2001: A Space Odyssey, but on a bigger scale.
There was absolutely no sense of humour involved.What I learned from my most recent science fiction readings are two things: I do not want scientists to “fictionalise” their teaching.
Neither historical fiction, nor speculative science fiction interest me as a rule, mainly because I prefer to read the nonfiction they are based on and make up my own mind on the topic.
Okay, take two.I was just reminiscing on my younger self's condemnation (or at least his valid annoyances at the plot holes and some of the straight story elements), or the fact that I was trying to compare this classic SF work with other classic SF works that I was making my way through at the time and comparing them unfavorably because I wanted a lot more of the psychedelic naked singularity stuff and aliens, not just a long-winded optimistic synthesis of science, religion, politics, and philosophy.But now, after having read a lot of so-so average SF, I can easily bump this one up because it balances everything on a good tightrope, including the story elements and the characterizations...And I'm gonna face it...
A lot of what is going on in Sagan's book, it seems to me, is the attempt to explore and express the wonder that is offered by scientific investigation and knowledge.The story of the world cooperation to build the Machine to travel into the galaxies -- and the subsequent breakdown of that cooperation -- is a further examination of the conflict between humans who desire to get beyond themselves, and those who are too fearful/threatened/self-absorbed/power-hungry to embark on that journey.
Sagan spends a lot of time in this book giving us an idea of the humongous extent of the universe, and thereby offering his own vision of the transformative possibility inherent in that investigation.
Not being much of a nonfiction reader this is my first encounter with Carl Sagan's writing, I already feel like it is a shame that he only wrote the one novel; though I am sure the world is more than compensated by his other output.Contact piqued my interest immediately with a vivid portrayal of Ellie Arrowway, a two years old genius, figuring out how a radio works and fixing a tube by straightening a bent prong.
Agnosticism is presented as the happy medium.Even though I had a sense that Sagan enjoyed writing Contact very much, it does not mean that the novel is a romp or a hoot.
In non-fiction, Sagan differentiated the minute points that separate his brand of rationality from religious faith, but floundered when he found himself in unfamiliar waters.When presenting an explanation for an idea, he can warn against pitfalls and refine specific points.
He wanted to ensnare the non-scientific reader by couching scientific ideas in an entertaining story, but in his inexperience, he chose ideas much grander than his story could support.This book is much more accessible than most of Sagan, simply because it is genre fiction.
In addition to Drumlin, who goes from skeptic to true believer, the multitudes who descend on New Mexico include the President's Science Advisor Kenneth der Heer and Assistant Secretary of Defense Michael Kitz.While Kitz remains wary of sharing the discovery with the rest of the world, Ken is supportive of Ellie.
In Carl Sagan’s only work of fiction, the story is a mere backbone, a structure upon which Sagan can explore what he truly wants to explore, that is, the deepest questions of our existence.What is our purpose here?Can humans live without institutionalized religion?What are the dangers of extraterrestrial contact?How did we come to exist?Can science and religion be reconciled?Some questions remain unanswered, but Sagan provides fascinating solutions to some.
Even better, the story and the characters behind these questions are fantastic.
Nature’s a lot better at inventing wonders than we are.Reading Contact I mostly felt joyous.
He was a truly unique and gifted astronomer and astrophysicist, and I wish Mr. Sagan was still with us, but thankfully we are able to hold on to a bit of his wit and creativity through this beautiful work of fiction.
It's his own little bit of eternity he's passed on to us, and no matter your stance on life, the universe, and everything (hey, I'm a Douglas Adams fan too!), you will find Sagan approaches both science and faith in this book with respect and dignity.
Please find the time to read this book, as it will be time well spent."For small creatures such as we, the vastness is bearable only through love."~Carl Sagan
This is an excellent thought experiment by a well-known and respected scientist on how contact with extra-terrestrials could realistically unfold.
I say thought experiment because as a novel the book didn’t always work so well.I understand that real science is not like it is portrayed in the movies.
It takes a lot of time and hard work to make a discovery, test the hypotheses, confirm the conclusion etc etc so its not really a surprise that this book’s pacing was much slower than most sci fi novels seeing that its written from the perspective of an actual scientist.Very often the dialogue between characters felt artificial.
It is still about the search for extraterrestrial intelligence, and a complex message is received from Vega with instructions to build a machine and take a ride, but the telling is much more scientific, technical, political and religious in nature.While some of the characters are the same, their relationships, for the most part, are surprisingly different too, and then there are the last two unexpected communiques that I did not expect to complete the story.
(view spoiler)[ (Ellie's mothers' letter divulging her 'true' father's identity, and the final message from beyond proving a higher intelligence antedates the universe.) (hide spoiler)]Great sci-fi adventure, but not what I envisioned.
No, Sagan je to napisao tako jer je, kao i znanstvenici u romanu, sa ruskim znanstvenicima mogao komunicirati samo ograničeno i to ga je smetalo.
Tako da je želio pokazati kako bi to bilo jednostavno i koliko bi svijet bio bolje mjesto.
I iako je očito koliko ga živciraju uspio je te dijelove napisati zabavno ali i informativno prelazeći preko svih osnovnih pitanja i napada koje oni upućuju znanstvenicima na debatama.I sama osnovna priča o radio valovima s bliske nam zvijezde Vege je, naravno, zanimljiva, ali tu neću ići u detalje jer mislim da je većini poznata.
I was surprised by how similar the original story was to the movie, as I had heard they butchered it.
The only changes of any weight were in Ellie's relationships to the other major characters, and the removal of dated material relating to the Soviet Union.Sagan's forte is definitely in non-fiction science popularization, and it is on display even in this work of fiction, where I'm sorry to say, it doesn't make for particularly good storytelling.I was not surprised by the book's greatest virtue, the preponderance of wonder, a deep and abiding respect for nature and humility before that which science has not (yet) elucidated.
I love it when an author can get me to learn at the same time as entertaining me—Carl Sagan and Michael Crichton are the best at this(Though E. L. James is right up there with them. She taught me how to debase women and make them think that it's liberating in some way)
Sta reci sem odlicna knjiga. Vrlo pametna ali ni u jednom momentu ne pokusava da nekoga prikaze glupim. Odlican prikaz religije, filozofije kao i same nauke u slucaju susreta sa vanzemaljcima. Sve je prikazano dosta realno, pa kolko je realno ono sto knjiga opisuje.Likovi koji se pojavljuju u knjizi su fino opisani ali u sustini fokus nije na njima. Pa cak ni na Eli koja je nas glavni voditelj kroz celu pricu.... jednostavno nisam dovoljno recit da posteno pohvalim ovu knjigu pa mogu samo reci da je obavezno procitate.
When a computer picks up a signal coming from the vicinity of the star Vega, which turns out to be a series of prime numbers, Ellie and the world get to confirm that there’s life somewhere out there.A big part of what I like about Contact is that it reads like a science lecture, albeit a better lecture than your average college class.
What the machine will do, no one has any idea, and a lot of time is spent in trying to figure out if this machine should even be built in the first place.The other thing I like about this book is how strong Sagan's female characters are.
‘He’s so perverse, Robert’, said Manny at lunch today.
We’d been talking about the ending of Contact, which I’d just finished, where there is a message in Pi which proves that there is a Maker.
The Maker has put a series of ones and noughts in Pi which make a circle if you care to set them out thus.
Manny is quite taken with this.
How could that possibly prove the existence of a Maker?’‘Yes, that’s just what Robert thinks’, said Manny.
I couldn’t tell if he was surprised or sad.Call me perverse then.
If this were the message:The rest is here:https://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpre...
Sagan and Clarke were both very familiar with the political maneuvering that takes place in multi-institutional projects and could provide very believable back-room machinations.At first, I thought that Sagan’s main character, Ellie, was rather like Clarke’s characters—clinically removed from emotions, observing them more than experiencing them.
Scientists are not necessarily good fiction writers—but I guess that Sagan was an effective story-teller, so I shouldn’t have been so startled.Book number 196 of my science fiction & fantasy reading project.
I like that the author added some of his personal thoughts, like rationality, scepticism, the challenge of discovery, the problems in our society and the never-ending conflict between trust in what you don't have any proof about it or your personal beliefs (faith) and the real and hard facts that have been proven with lots of evidence (science).
I would advice the other readers that this is a real book that always wants you focused, otherwise you wouldn't understand much the thoughts of the author, the rich scientific details and the evolution of the story, so it isn't a book you can drop and then continue reading after a while.
I have always wondered why people say science and faith (or a belief in God or Supreme Creator) have to be two separate things.
Everything I learn about the natural world and the universe proves to me that God exists, not the opposite.
This book repeats back to me truths that I have I think I have always known.
And it does it in the voice of a scientist, as written by the pen of a scientist.
It points out the fallacies of religion, but not faith.
It points out the weaknesses of government, but not humanity.
Sagan takes these strong black and white constructs and shows us how they overlap infinitely ...like a circle in the universe.Ellie Arroway is a scientist and astronomer.
Most importantly, what is the message and what is the intention of this extraterrestrial communication?Sagan wrote this in 1985 and takes place primarily in the 1990's.
Also, like him, she became a public image for the scientific community and held atheistic beliefs that could create tension when dealing with highly publicized scientific questions.Sagan, studied potentials for extraterrestrial life, but held strong attention to physical realities and analysis.
Prvo čitanje sam smjestio negdje u 1987. obzirom da imam HR izdanje iz 1986.Izvrsno napisan roman, dobro se sjećam velikog užitka pri čitanju i zato čista petica.Roman koji je pozitivan i daje nadu čovječanstvu (a to uvijek volim).Film odličan - pogledao nekoliko puta.Preporuka svima i za knjigu i za film poslije.
Read this book in the early nineties. Loved Ellie Arroway and loved this story. Then the movie came out and I loved that too! One of my most favorite female-centric scifi stories written by a male.
I think I saw the movie first and despite not really liking it, my interest was piqued by the book...
and a big book, too.
I really like long, good reads (chalk it up to my early interest in historical romance novels which for the most part - especially early Johanna Lindsey ones, none of her new crap - are long and big...
haha) and this is definitely fits that category.Sagan, is quite simply, a master at what he knows and how he conveys all of it in this novel.
Super-6-stars !![A 6-star rated book is the one that has been able to amaze me through more than 70% and above of its content ingredients. :) ]Review: COMING SOON
Her 'true' father, a simple, loving, hard-working hardware vendor was taken from her at a young age, and a less-similar replacement than Staughton couldn’t be found in the Milky Way. Ellie’s studies are rooted firmly in the black and white world of science, which is considered uncharacteristic for a woman at the time, and Staughton makes sure to scoff and mock at her passions and desires at every turn, as she slowly gains acceptance and credibility as a radio astronomer.
Inima ♥ inima ♥ inima ♥ inima ♥ inima(sunt foarte masculin, ce pot sa spun - asta e, ma entuziasmez prea usor)Restul aici:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8LNmP...
Book even ended with the suggestion of some intelligence that predates humanity, Elder ones style."Standing over humans, Gods and Demons, subsuming caretakers and tunnel builders, there is an intelligence that antedates the universe."The second heresy is movie being better than the book, or more like an enhancing experience against the usual corollary.
I loved the novel, but it also made me love the movie more; and I don't mean it as a negative here.In my severe reduction, Contact can be considered as humanity's delayed introduction to The Culture; it can also be viewed as the most expensive and elaborate psychedelic experience as well.
