https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/925697.More_With_Less_Cookbook
One of my favorite cookbooks of all time. I kept the library copy until I thought they were going to come to my house and take it back. I finally have my own copy :)
but they all call for half a million fancy ingredients that cost a LOT and are hard to find in a small town with no easy access to gourmet grocery stores.
I love that most (all?) of the ingredients the recipes call for can be found at my local market or grocery store.
Just move past things like that.)What I didn't expect was that the greatest value of this book isn't necessarily in the recipes - it's in the philosophy.
This COOKbook is actually about 1/4 to 1/3 BOOK, and Mennonite philosophy just oozes out of it.
I have an earlier, spiral-bound edition of this book that I purchased over ten years ago.
The book was a big help to me because it presented scrumptious, healthy recipes that fit into our budget.
This book was first published in 1976, and yet it fits in so well with the information about food choices that is always coming out.
The author, a socially, conscious Mennonite, was concerned about eating healthier, wasting food and using up less of our worlds resources.
The book contains recipes for your meatless Mondays and even ideas of what to do with leftovers.
This is more than a cookbook, but a book on the culture of nutrition and doing more with less in our families eating habits.
This book was written before most of the allergy craze, and it shows all the more clearly how it is become more of a fad than a need.
I am aware of many true allergies to food, but also see how in our country, it has become a first world need to have so many varied and different food "needs".
I found myself fascinated how many things have changed, but at the same time, the needs and focus needs to remain the same.
More nutrition, more delight in good foods, with less consumption of limited resources—low-cost, low-fat, low-sugar with less expensive protein sources.
In Mozambique where we shared a kitchen without an oven for the first several months and store-bought bread was low quality, I turned to the flour tortilla recipe in More with Less and we regularly ate tacos stuffed with beans and vegetables instead of meat, which was also rarely available.
It isn’t so much that I use this cookbook on a daily basis anymore—after forty years, I have a pretty established repertoire for daily use—but it formed my philosophy of eating and cooking.
Her philosophy is reminiscent of Bittman and Pollan, but this book was published decades before theirs.
Some of the nutritional information is now known to be incorrect, but overall it is pretty sound.
The first part of the book goes into great detail about her whole foods philosophy and includes nutritional and environmental reasons for her choices.
While the recipes do contain some cringe-worthy ingredients like margarine, shortening, and sugar the emphasis is heavy on whole foods and anyone with a modicum of cooking experience will have no trouble making substitutions in the vast majority of recipes.
While I won't be slaughtering my own chickens or converting to powdered milk anytime soon, there are quite a few recipes in this book that I am excited to try. Not only does it serve as a gentle reminder about which foods and shopping methods are easiest on the environment, it is a wonderful celebration of fellowship and community through shared cooking and meals. Even the margins are crammed with lovely quotes, many of them from 'ordinary' people who contributed to the book.
Not too much to say, the first few chapters were really interesting, the rest is recipes. I liked what the author had to say about what we eat, why, and also just thinking about the whole picture of food. I liked the scriptures mentioned, and I appreciate that the author believes stewardship extends to the food system.
1) A cookbook that embraces fresh vegetables! Lentils! Beans! And they're not side dishes!2) I would consider becoming a Mennonite for this book alone.
From some simple (and tasty) salad dressing recipes that are easy, tasty and quick to make to desserts that are heavy on flavor, shorter on time and effort than many.There’s no reinventing the wheel here – these are simple foods, prepared carefully and with a mindfulness that keeps wasted items to a minimum.
Best of all, this cookbook has recipes that are simple and easy, with suggestions for leftovers, ways to make ingredients stretch without losing taste, and easy to recreate, bringing full of flavor options to replace some of your pre-made or more expansive and expensive recipes.
I know this is a bias of mine, due to my allium intolerance, but I have no time for recipes that rely solely on allium to make a meal.Then there is the heavy Christian influence.
This isn’t a big deal to a seasoned cook… but may stump a few newbie cooks who work in metric, until they find themselves a good online conversion table to help them out.All in all, it was a good starter book for someone who is new to cooking, can tolerate loads of allium (they’re going to have to with this book) and is okay with Christian banter in amongst their recipes.
I don’t remember if I made any of the recipes, but I do remember enjoying perusing the book.
In that case, the challenge might be finding the squash blossoms.Features such as “gather up the fragments” are filled with ways to use parts of foods that might otherwise be thrown away.
And no, there are no cows (moos) involved.I would highly recommend More-with-Less Cookbook, 40th Anniversary Edition to anyone who cares about food, the deliciousness of food, the waste of food and the impact how we use food affects others.I received a free copy of the book from NetGalley in exchanged for my honest review.
From Netgalley for a review:Usually if I run into a cookbook who has strong spiritual tones I am able to overlook it in favor of the recipes, assuming the recipes are good.
I agree with a lot of the message of this book, food is a sacred thing (I come at it from a different form of spirituality, but the bare bones of the idea are the same) eat healthy, take care of the environment and such...these are good messages, but the tone of the messages left a sour taste in my mouth.
A Mennonite introduced me to  More-With-Less: A World Community Cookbook 20 years ago or more.
First published in 1976, this cookbook authored by a socially conscious Mennonite, is being reissued this year.
It’s hard to fathom that ideas that are now a cornerstone of healthy eating — avoid processed food, eat less meat in order to create a healthier planet and more sustainable agriculture in lesser-developed countries, sample ethnic cuisines, you can eat better and more cheaply, we can change the world with our food purchases — were once revolutionary ideas.
It doesn't seem to be at all accommodating for Kindle as I cant skip ahead chapters or go to a certain page to look at recipes.
Now this could have something to do with my older Kindle version rather than the book.
Although I think it doesn't matter where a good message comes from, I am an Atheist, and I would have liked to know in advance that I would be urged to read the bible for good food tips.It was just not for me but in the right hands it can no doubt do wonders.
i will probably never be on board with the powdered milk gospel (um) advocated here, but the politics and perspective framing this cookbook are right on. encouraging experimentation, substitution, community, and an ecologically-light-footed (right?) culinary aesthetics, these recipes are great for dumpstered deliciousness !
A very attractive updated look, combined with the old favourite recipes, makes this one a winner.
Title: More-with-Less Cookbook - 40th EditionAuthor: Doris Janzen LongacrePublisher: Herald PressPublished: 9-27-2016Pages: 328Genre: Cooking, Food & Wine Sub-Genre: Cookbooks; Special DietISBN: 978-836199642Reviewed For NetGalley and Herald PressReviewer: DelAnneRating: 4.5 StartsEasy to follow abd understand recipes.
Some unusual ones such as Campfire Packet Stew, Pinto Bean Bread, Chicken turnovers, Pilgrim's Bread, soap recipes, Navajo Fry Bread and dandilion salad just to name a few.
There are chutneys, desserts and side and main dishes.A little something for everyone.
Along with conversion charts and nutriional information for creaing healthy meals.My rating of "More-with-Less Cookbook " is 4.5 out of 5 stars.Amazon Link: https://www.amazon.com/dp/083619103X/...B&N Link: https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/more...GoodReads Link: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9...The Reading Room Link: https://www.facebook.com/permalink.ph...Twitter Link: https://twitter.com/DelAnne531/status...
Back in those days, we didn't have food blogging, homemaking had yet to make its hip resurgence, and I was the only teacher eating homemade refried beans and rice for lunch in the teacher lounge.
I learned a lot of important skills and values from this cookbook, but I don't regularly reach for it anymore.
They're simple, healthy (sometimes in a very 70's way, recommending margarine and white rice!), have straightforward ingredients that I already have in my pantry, and are hard to mess up.
So while I recommend this to any young people going out on their own and learning to cook for the first time, I don't menu plan out of it anymore.
I purchased an edition of this book 30 years ago and I loved it.
When this edition came out, I was convinced that I would feel the same about it.
I do.This book has been filled with recipes used by the Mennonite people.
Preferably, these should come from local sources.
To show some of the missions that the Mennonite people serve they include pictures from around the world using local resources.I found the recipes were easy to follow and, unlike so many other cookbooks, do not take forever to create.
The most important part of this cookbook is the philosophy and principles laid out in the opening sections. The author argues in a warm and inspiring way for simple and frugal cooking, with occasional indulgences as a special occasion. Reading this book reaffirmed what my parents' taught me (and I'm sure they owned this book) and made me feel more resolved to put more effort into my cooking. Most of the recipes didn’t suit my tastes or capabilities, but that's true of any cookbook. I'll definitely keep this around as a reference.
I really like this cookbook, so much so that I bought it!
I originally heard about it from a patron, she said she'd had her copy for close to 40 years and still used it all the time!
So I went in search of early copies and found one from the early 70's and one from the early 90's, they are identical!
Perfect!
So I ordered the original and I'm so glad I did!
The recipes are simple and nutritious, most are fairly fast to put together.
Best of all they taste GREAT!
I'll be using this cookbook for a long time!
This is an excellent read, with an abundance of recipes and plenty of ideas for utilizing leftovers and reducing your waste. The edition I read was definitely outdated by nearly 20 years, but I would be very interested in reading and assessing a more updated version. As it was, the version I read had many useful tables and charts, and even better it cites its sources unlike many other books of the same ilk. Definitely provides both food for thought and food for the body.
Bought this book at a rummage sale for 50 cents. Some Interesting reading and recipes. Can't wait to make all of the delicious sounding recipes over the next few months, then I'll be able to write a better and more accurate review, but sounds like a 4 star at this time. Either way, it's a great book to add to my collection.
I love this fuckin' book
Kind of laughable that I would read a cookbook, but I read this one. I just need to find the time to start practicing some of the recipes that seem most interesting.
I love this cookbook. I have had some version of it in my collection for years and I would not be without it.
Food need not be expensive or exotic to be a delicious repast physically and socially.Going through the cookbook, I was struck by a number of items.
First there is a wonderful array of simple salad dressing recipes.
First there are some nice recipes for making your own granola (cheap, easy, and delicious) as well as adaptations for making your own granola bars.
I also liked the muffin and quick bread recipes - creative versions of old favorites.
My rule of thumb is that if there are more than four recipes that have good results - I like the book.
Food need not be expensive or exotic to be a delicious repast physically and socially.Going through the cookbook, I was struck by a number of items.
First there is a wonderful array of simple salad dressing recipes.
First there are some nice recipes for making your own granola (cheap, easy, and delicious) as well as adaptations for making your own granola bars.
I also liked the muffin and quick bread recipes - creative versions of old favorites.
My rule of thumb is that if there are more than four recipes that have good results - I like the book.
Add water to cover rice by 1 in, or the depth of the first knuckle on your first finger.
Turn off heat and continue to ignore until you need it.) However, I found relatively few other recipes in here that I could envision either cooking or asking my family to eat.
Although it has been updated from time to time, it definitely shows its age and origins in an era when casseroles were what's for dinner.
Good for my health and wallet, yes.
Good for my soul?
