https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62794.Confessions_of_a_Mask
Second reading.
The model is clearly Marcel Proust's À la recherche du temps perdu, with a bit of  André Gide thrown in too.
I'm afraid the narrator has also read far too much Freud.
For the early memories "recounted" here, those of a child three or four years old, are clearly imbued with the erotic sensibility of an experienced adult.
This may be naïve of me, but I find it hard to believe that a sentence as wooden as "The pleasure you experience at this moment is a genuine human feeling" could be anything but a failure of translation.
And the book is rife with such sentences.
But not a political novel.
Right from his childhood, Kochan had an affinity to grief with death being the ultimate seducer of his sensualities.
At times, death becomes the ultimate escapism; a respite to his chaotic predicaments and then there are moments when the thought of death compels him (Kochan) to ponder on the possibilities of an honorable life.
At the time, like the crew of a wrecked ship, they have found themselves in a situation where it was permissible to kill one person in order that another might live...."War had become an identical apologetic entity of auto-hypnosis and self-deceit that Kochan himself had metamorphosed into.
Mishima's queer classic, his second novel (written in his early 20s) and earliest currently available in English, is a coming-of-age story of a young boy who struggles with his queerness.
For the two main themes of Confessions (and quite a lot of Mishima's other works) are male queerness and sadomasochism.
I was not aware of just how much of A Boy's Own Story owns a debt to Confessions.
In fact nearly all major coming-of-age queer tales seem to eventually trace their genealogy back to Kochan.An engrossing and influential tale, Confessions of a Mask is still as fresh (and shocking) in 2018 as it was in 1949.
Obsession with death - the painful knowledge of the impermanence of life, and the need to control it, - is the true face underneath the mask.
And also there's the desire to control beauty - and the strongest power over beauty, like life, is to destroy it."For many years I claimed I could remember things seen at the time of my own birth." This is an opening sentence packed with meaning.
Confession , as a word, has a strong connotation – prelude to its utterance is a hesitation, and that hesitation alone, is sufficient to engulf the confession-maker with an odour that reeks of both delay and guilt.But Mishima’s protagonist can take the liberty, because he is behind a mask. His frail body that fails him in school, denigrating his boyish flavour to a handful of jokes, holds up its masculine remnants at nights, because he is behind a mask. His impressionable juvenile mind that ref
, as a word, has a strong connotation – prelude to its utterance is a hesitation, and that hesitation alone, is sufficient to engulf the confession-maker with an odour that reeks of both delay and guilt.But Mishima’s protagonist can take the liberty, because he is behind a mask.
The snow seemed like a dirty bandage hiding the open wounds of the city, hiding those irregular gashes of haphazard streets and tortuous alleys, courtyards and occasional plots of bare ground, that form the only beauty to be found in the panorama of our cities.
Saint Sebastian, Guido Reni"The black and slightly oblique trunk of the tree of execution was seen against a Titian-like background of gloomy forest and evening sky, sombre and distant.
Being the nigh agonizingly frank reveal of self that it is, Yukio Mishima's Confessions of a Mask ( published in 1949 while its author was still in his early twenties ) has ever since garnered a reputation for being the quintessential 'coming out' novel, serving as an inspiration to homosexuals brought up in socially conservative societies everywhere.
Also disturbing is the supreme titillation Mishima found in the convergence of male youths, torture and death by all manner of gruesome ways.
If the sadomasochistic fantasies are truly Mishima's admission of his own feelings, he is even more strongly connected with his protagonist by the latter's unyielding struggle to prove himself as special, destined for martyrdom like St.Sebastian - a fate proud, tragic, transcendent.
Mishima himself stated that his intent was to write "a perfect fictional work of confession." Certainly, the novel is dramatically written; a sense of Mishima teasing his reader's attention with a performance much like the masked Kabuki plays his grandmother introduced him to as a youngster, enabling him to exist, not only as a man in an easily alienating social sect, but as the brilliantly talented, ingeniously creative writer he knew he was.
What a great book! Mishima did a great job of depicting the story of a Japanese adolescent in Japanese society realizing that he is gay and thus having to wear a mask to hide his true self. There is so much mental confusion going through the protagonist's head, a great psychological account not only of teen angst but also of realizing you're different in a society that doesn't understand you. I've read quite a bit on Yukio Mishima and he seems to have been an interesting,intelligent and complex character. I look forward to reading more of his works.
... Ve hep bir danstı sonsuz...
Mishima'yı anlayabilmek için ne yazdıysa hepsini okumak gerekiyor bana göre. Zira koskocaman bir resmin ufak parçaları olarak görüyorum ben eserlerini. 'Bir Maskenin İtirafları'nı da o resmin merkezinde konumlanan, sonrasında yazdığı her şeye 'ondan' bir bakış atılmasına imkan sağlayan özel bir anlatı olarak kabul ediyorum. Bu yüzden üçüncü kez okudum. Mishima okuması yapacaksanız, sağlam bir zemin atmak için, bu kitabı ilk sıralara koymanızı tavsiye ederim.İyi okumalar!8/10
اعترافات قناع كتاب مخضب بالحس المأساوي المتولد من أوجاع ميشيما المازوشية، والفصامية، بين رغبته بالعادية وبين حقيقته كمثليّ...
وقبل أي شيء، يجيء العنوان " اعترافات قناع " ليظلل المشهد برمته ويذكرك بزيف حياة الكاتب التي امتدت طوال عشرين عاماً، وما يربوا عن 250 صفحة من القطع المتوسط.العبارة التي استوقفتني، هي قوله بأنه يشعر بأن ثمة صراع بين الروح واللحم يغشي حياته، فبينما يحن اللحم إلى العلاقات المثلية، كانت روحه تتمزق في سبيل تأكيد استقامة ميولها، ورغبته الطبيعية بزوجة وحياة ..
What's still more awful is that the man with the ideal of Sodom in his soul does not renounce the ideal of the Madonna, and in the bottom of his heart he may still be on fire, sincerely with fire, with longing for the beautiful ideal, just as in the days of his youthful innocence.
(What did Oscar Wilde say about giving a man a mask and he'll tell you the truth?) I was wishing that he had read more books to not shove "normal" too far into the corner.
I have a serious staring problem to maintain, you know.) Page 62: "Something like a secret feeling of superiority was always hovering about his face.
No había podido terminar esta novela la primera vez que la leí, pero ahora, en una especie de re-lectura, me atreví a circundar nuevamente en esos espacios de infancia, adolescencia e incipiente adultez que relata Koo-Chan, el narrador-protagonista de Confesiones de una máscara, como en una especie de evocación de su pasado.Esta evocación se torna interesante principalmente porque no se trata de recordar con nostalgia lo vivido, sino de auto-leerse para entender el presente.
La virilidad y la comunión matrimonial son los cuchillos afilados de una cultura que pesa sobre los hombros de Koo-Chan.
Bereket Denizi Serisinden sonra itiraflara tekrar dönecek ve yorumumu 2. Okumadan sonra yapacağım.
Yukio Mishima is one of the most acclaimed Japanese author, i can see why is that.
He mostly lived through what he wrote.
Confessions of a mask is an autobiographical work from Mishima, which is a story of coming out of closet, more like talking from the closet.
Hence, the mask, and confessions.
Published in 1945, written in his early twenties, this book bought him all the success.
I can see why this book is considered too important, and a classic, written in 40's Japan.
Moreover, the writing and the way book flowed just didn't work out.
Yukio Mishima é um dos meus escritores preferidos e, com toda a certeza, uma das personagens mais operáticas (espalhafatosa, dirão alguns...) do universo literário. Mesmo aqueles que possam estar menos familiarizados com a sua obra serão conhecedores de diversos detalhes da sua vida e das circunstâncias associadas à sua morte. Confissões de uma Máscara , originalmente publicado em 1949 quando Mishima tinha apenas 25 anos, foi o primeiro romance de sucesso deste autor. Não tendo sido, na altura,
Não tendo sido, na altura, assumido como autobiográfico, é hoje óbvio que Kochan (o protagonista e narrador destas "Confissões") é o nome da "máscara" que Mishima usou para trazer a público esta auto-análise de um período da sua vida que inclui a infância, a adolescência e uma parte da juventude.
O enredo praticamente não existe e a obra centra-se num universo de pensamentos, sentimentos e conflitos internos do jovem Kochan que, desde a infância, sente uma obsessão quase mórbida pelo martírio e pela morte, vivendo um isolamento resultante da sua desadequação ao mundo exterior.
Yukio Mishima's Confessions of a Mask is of a particular species of literature, one that—despite encompassing such venerable works as Dostoyevsky's Notes From the Underground and André Breton's Nadja—is no longer in vogue.
Of this, a good enough example as any may be found in the following passage, which I will be so bold as to quote in full, and which is as exquisite as any prose-poem I've ever read: From the surface offing the waves began and came sliding in over the surface of the sea in the form of restless green swells.
If you can ignore those couple of sentences though, it is an intresting portrayal of psychology of a a homosexual person living in a society where homosexuals are not supposed to exist.
Intresting because I don't always find the author agreeable.The segregation of sexes that is made in schools and colleges and jails is probably made with aim of keeping people from having sex - but aren't they presuming that all children are hetrosexuals ?
His constant efforts at denials and pretending to be a straight person is one of the two themes of novel.The other theme is that of war.
Born and raised amid wars, taught in millitary schools.
And thus has an obsession with death.
It's interesting how much of Mishima's experience being a queermo in the first half of the twentieth century resonates with my experience of being a queermo like eighty years later: the unintentional denial, the mopeyness, the obsession, the self-consciousness, y'know.
So yeah, that blew my mind.Still, it's all mannered and slow and reflective and all the un-viscerally-exciting things you'd (well, I'd) expect from the time period and from such a complicated obsession with decorum.
So yeah.
This little fella does a good job describing what it was like to be queer for me in high school and not to know it.
A melhor forma de vos aliciar para a leitura deste livro será conduzir-vos para a excelente review da Ana. Já a li várias vezes e nada lhe falta ou está a mais. Obrigada, Ana.
Until then I had mistakenly thought I was only poetically attracted to such things, thus confusing the nature of my sensual desires with a system of [a]esthetics. I can't imagine someone who's not queer understanding everything that's going on in this book, and that's not me espousing the "everyone's actually a little bit gay" bullshit. Either you've actively wrestled with a component of your sexual/gendered/etc identity that has been/is/will be a some point in history a sign of the outcast, or
I can't imagine someone who's not queer understanding everything that's going on in this book, and that's not me espousing the "everyone's actually a little bit gay" bullshit.
This was the case with high school encountered The Sound of Waves and college acquired The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea, and considering that I added Confessions of a Mask two years before I figured out I was bi but didn't read it until after the fact, it's safe to say that Mishima is going to continue following me around.
this novel is unusual ,shocking ,very strange....i feel sympathy for this tragic protagonist Kochan and all his mixed feelings and struggle against himself,and his own emotions being torned between his desire to be straight and his true feelings...hisfascinations and fantasies of death ,his self confidence that seems nearly in existent because of his naturally weak body ....his Questionable love to Sonoko ,he being Jealous from her that she could have such pure and true love that he simply cant give to any woman ...the sense of victory that he had when he felt he could seduce a woman....very miserable soul....
Reading the two books dually allowed me to have a deeper insight into Mishima's life.Confessions of a Mask is Mishima's personal account of his discovering of his homosexuality, his desire to fit in the conventional society, and of his grief over the fact that being part of the normal society is unattainable for him.The book poignantly describes in detail his attraction to other men, in particular the philistine types, unlike the educated Mishima.
He was able to distant himself and develop a "mask" of a person participating in the normal rituals of the conventional world.With that desire, he was able to relish in the act of courting a woman, yet all done from the viewpoint of someone observing himself.
كان هذا الكتاب هو بوابة الدخول إلى عالم هذا الكاتب الجميل ميشيما وبعدها حرصت كل الحرص على أن اشتري ك
والكثيرون غيرهم إلى كاتب القناع: يوكيو ميشيما.
يقدم ميشيما (القناع) كعمل يتصدّى للموت والدمار, يقدم صورة لآثار الحرب, وما فعلته بالمجتمع الياباني (هذا الجانب كان مقوّم أساسي للأدب الياباني, أوضاع البلاد وما خلفته الحرب).
بين الحب واللا رغبة كان يتقدم قليلًا ثم يعود أكثر للوراء.من حسن حظي صراحة أني قبل أن أشتري كتبه, كنت قد قرأت مجموعة من أراء النقاد حولها.
ومن حسن حظي كما قلت, قرأت الاعترافات أولًا.
حتّى تستطيع أن تفهم رباعيّة الخصب, حتّى تستطيع أن تغوص فيها وأنت راضٍ, حتّى تفهم الكاتب الذي تقرأ له, تفكيره وذاته وووو يجب أن تقرأ الاعترافات قبل أي عمل آخر.

ارتدى الكاتب قناع شخصية في رواية وتحدث عن مكونات اعمق تربة في نفسهمن الصعب جدا ان يجد قارئ مثل هذه ا
Kochan has no friends to talk to, no family to lean on, and no way to know if what he's feeling is good or bad.
What he grows into, however, is a pale, lonely and barren man.Like many gay kids, especially in the pre-internet era, Kochan believes that he is unique.
And as anyone who's tried that will know, hiding from yourself only works for so long....Such is the life of a young gay man in wartime Japan.
While I can't claim to know what would have happened to a young man in that era who came out of the closet, the narrator doesn't even seem to consider that as an option, good or bad.
Mişima kalemiyle bir aynayı gösteriyor.Bu aynadan yansıyan karaktere bakıyoruz. O kendisine baktıkça siz de ona daha dikkatlli bakmaya başlıyorsunuz. Ona baktıkça onun gibi düşünmeye, üzülmeye ve onun gözünden görmeye başlıyorsunuz her şeyi.Elleri eliniz, dokunuşu sizin hissiyatınız oluyor.Gizledikleri, hazları, kızgınlığı hep aynadan yansıyana..Aynayı tutan kim?Aynadan yansıyan kim?Aynaya bakana bakan kim?Mişima sadece bunları soruyor.!
But directions for its use were nowhere written, and so, when the toy took the initiative in wanting to play with me, my bewilderment was inevitable.
The nature of its tastes had become bound up, not only with my childhood memories, but, one after another, with such things as the naked bodies of young men seen on a summer's seashore, the swimming teams seen at Meiji Pool, the swarthy young man a cousin of mine married, and the valiant heroes of many an adventure story.
Until then I had mistakenly thought I was only poetically attracted to such things, thus confusing the nature of my sensual desires with a system of esthetics.”What I respect about Mishima, like Vollmann, is that neither allows himself to linger too long in self-pity.
