https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91248.Ramona_the_Brave
I've had a copy of Beverly Cleary's Ramona the Brave somewhere in my house, regardless of where I've lived or how old my kids are, for 4 decades now, but I never had the audiobook, narrated by Stockard Channing.I don't really “do” audiobooks (exceptions made by books narrated by Colin Firth or Ralph Fiennes), but I thought I'd shake up this classic and expose my girls to a different narrator.I was saving it for a rainy day, but instead of rain, we had stormy weather in our car last week, a day when our girls just couldn't stop pummeling each other (any person who thinks girls don't fist fight is clearly the parent of an only daughter), and I finally cracked the audio book out of its cover and let Stockard Channing's impressive vocal range save the day.Ms. Channing does a fantastic job of changing voices and every time she “speaks” as the pre-teen Beezus in this classic story, I found myself laughing out loud.
Beverly Cleary really knows the way kids think.
I often wondered this when I was a kid, but now rereading it I think Cleary implies that Susan probably did copy.As a kid, I thought that Ramona must have grown up in an extremely tame household if she did not know any truly bad words.
Still, it was pretty funny.On another note, I think this book is where Cleary breaks away into more modern storytelling.
This book uses the word "liberated" and Ramona's mom gets a job.
In the original books, this book had brand new illustrations, more modern, I guess.
Ah, the woes of a six-year-old! :)
I recall loving the Ramona books as a child (I think I was about 9 when I read them), but I really appreciated re-reading this one as an adult and as the mother of a child of my own.
Reading Ramona the Brave reminded me for a moment of what it’s like to be a child, of how dramatic little things seem, of how little adults seem to understand and appreciate the seriousness of these matters, and it made me feel more sympathy for my daughter and her childhood trials.
I think I had as much fun reading it as she had listening to it.
Ramona the Brave (Ramona, #3), Beverly Cleary عنوان: رامونای شجاع شجاع ؛ نوشته: بورلی کلی یری؛ مترجم: پروین علیپور، نشر: افق
Ramona Quimby, 1st grader supremo, doesn't need to worry about lockdowns, ISIS, or overly indulgent parents!
Her greatest worry is the dog eating her shoe the next street over when she walks to school.
You read that right.I love these darn books.
They're an invocation of a time when being a kid meant being afraid of oozing boneless gorillas instead of the brown people moving into your gated community and when it was okay to hate your sibling and everyone would have a good laugh about local disaster.Forget all that Hunger Games crap, kids--Ramona is way more fun and relevant (or should be) and there's little-to-no death and starvation.
it was better than the second one.But it was okay.But i`m actually not sure if it was better than the second or not ya know.............i don`t know.
it was better than the second one.But it was okay.But i`m actually not sure if it was better than the second or not ya know.............i don`t know.
I have never read any of the RAMONA books...I checked the copyright and realized why...1975.
Cleary started writing these when my first child was an infant and youngster...I missed them, and never read them to him.
So, Ramona is a new treat.I feel for Ramona...she looks at worksheets and over thinks all the answers.
She builds stories from the scenarios, and then she chooses the 'wrong' answer, but she has elaborate reasons why her answer is right.She values her creativity and feels deeply when others co-opt her creativity.
What a quirky young girl Ramona is.
She feels that no one understands her and that is why she gets into trouble.
Full of imagination and wonder I am sure being in Ramona's world is kind of like Alice and Wonderland, quite a different world.
There is nothing she can't do until she talks herself out of it.
Now in first grade she regrets moving on because she is not as thrilled with her current teacher.
Her kindergarten teacher understood her a lot more and was more sensitive to her needs.
And as always Beezus continues to call her a pest.

When Ramona’s shoe is returned, the school secretary comments on Ramona’s bravery while dealing with the dog, which is how she got the nickname “Ramona the Brave.”The main character in this children’s novel is Ramona Quimby.
Ramona is brave when she stands up for her older sister, but she loses her bravery when she gets upset at Susan and tears up bowl owls.
At the end of the novel Ramona gains back her bravery while dealing with the big dog on her way to school, and having to deal with only one shoe for most of the day.
she starts working as a receptionist in a doctor's office to help pay for the new addition the quimbys have put on their house (a third bedroom so beezus & ramona don't have to share anymore).
i don't remember having strong feels about dogs one way or another when i was really little, but i gradually started liking them less & less (even though we always had at least one when i was a kid) until now, when i really can't stand them.
ramona goes to school a new way in one chapter & is menaced by a big unattended dog.
Ramona Quimby has just begun a new school year as a 1st grader.
There are so many things to be nervous about when starting this new chapter of her life, but Ramona has decided she is going to show these challenges who's boss!
My daughter laughs at Ramona's stories as they remind her of similar situations she's faced in the last 2-3 years; I laugh at the stories as they remind me of similar situations I faced over 30 years ago.
My daughter & I have enjoyed laughing at Ramona's stories & bonding over telling stories of our own.
I read the Ramona books as a child, and rereading them now to my son, they still hold a special place in my heart. Cleary does a wonderful job of getting into the mindset of her intended audience, although for me, at least, I didn't pick up on just how talented a writer she was until now. The needs of Ramona and the desire she has for grownups to interact with her in specific ways really resonated with me and reminded me of my own child. Also, we could not believe the audacity of Susan. What a copycat.
Ramona the Brave is when I really started loving the Ramona series. It's also when the series became "modern". Ramona's mom goes back to work full-time and Ramona has a tough time adjusting to first grade. The one thing I love most about Beverly Cleary is that she really knows how to write children in a realistic way. Great read!
I am attempting to read all Ramona books this summer with my girls, age 9 and 7. I remember liking them as a child, and they are still fun as an adult. This one has Ramona in 1st grade and did not disappoint!
Ramona is now in first grade and 6 years old. This is a lot like #2, Ramona the Pest, except that Ramona is clearly more mature now. Ramona’s friendship with Howie has developed from book #2. I liked this one but not quite as much as #2.
Re-read December 2015: This was adorable, as expected. Cleary really explains well how a child's mind works.
My girls giggled and giggled in the chapter where Ramona says a bad word. Guts!
Love these books!
I'm grateful to Ramona for helping me understand how to teach the concept of being "brave" to my kindergartener.
Many of the challenges that Ramona faces in this book are ones that my daughter has encountered over the past few months: schoolwork getting harder, grown-ups misunderstanding you, siblings and friends always having something that is somehow more or better than what you have.
And, dogs!
Dogs can be terrifying!
Ramona has taught us that sometimes being brave means being yourself.
Sometimes it means having the courage to explain your point of view to someone who may not understand.
The perfect read aloud for my 6 and 8 year old. We are working our way through the series and loving every book. This was my favorite series as a young kid. I’m so glad to share it with my children. Cleary is a genius at capturing the essence of childhood with sparse yet perfect language. Highly recommend.
Beverly Clearly has made me cry again. She’s three for three at making me cry from a Ramona book. Ramona is so relatable. I can deeply empathize with her.
I so prefer the older editions with the original illustrations. The newer art just doesn't do much for me.
Beverly Cleary never disappoints. Also, Stockard Channing is a fantastic reader - loved listening to the audiobook with Nathan!
The emotional complexity of the Ramona stories as she grows up are fantastic.
Trying to get inside a first-grader's head is not easy -- explaining all those thoughts and actions that often manifest as simple "irrationality" to us adults -- but I thought Beverly Cleary did a good job of it here. I enjoy Ramona more as an older character, but this was still a funny and interesting story of her time adjusting to first grade, with its conflicts, fears, and bravery.
I read this for a reading challenge prompt to read a childhood favorite. Beverly Cleary captured the mind of a first grade child so well. The story is fun, and there's even some dramatic tension. Will Ramona get in trouble? Will she concur her fears? Will she win over the teacher? It was a nice stress reliever to revisit this book. I reread the first two last year, and I'm sure I'll work my way through the rest of the series. I still love Ramona!
Ramona Quimby is the best and Beverly Cleary is the best and I love them both with my whole heart.
They room was silent, and Ramona had the satisfaction of knowing she had stopped their laughing.
Then Ramona felt her mother's hand on her back.
She had no tears left."Dear heart," said Mrs. Quimby.
Haven't we all felt like Ramona at some point?
Mrs. Quimby is such a wonderful mother, and I love my mother, and I love being a mother, and just tears.
Up until now, we've been reading Ramona books illustrated by Tracy Dockray.
I really like her drawings because they do such a great job of conveying the emotions of each character - from elation to concern to anger.
I thought Isabelle might not like the change, but she told me that in school, her teacher reads books illustrated by yet another person, who turned out to be Jacqueline Rogers.
I personally prefer Tracy Dockray's pictures because Alan Tiegreen's drawings look, well, not so cute.
Interestingly, while I focused on the emotions and the possible take-away lessons, Isabelle said her favorite thing about this book was the brick factory game that Ramona played with Howie.
