https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79424.The_Way_of_the_Superior_Man
he writes/teaches about masculine and feminine energy, which is present to varying degrees in all men and women.
when he describes feminine energy, he is not describing women, and when he describes masculine energy, he is not describing men.
the masculine holds the space for the feminine - like the riverbanks (stillness) hold the space for the river (life) to flow.
he is incredibly articulate and his powerful presence can be felt right through the recordings.i have read many books and authors on the subject of spiritual sex, and deida is by far the best.
As a straight woman, I was happy to learn A LOT about men (the book explains so much about their priorities and the way they see the world) but was even happier with Deida's explanations about the feminine mind.
Today, women are living in a world where a lot of feminine qualities are not valued - we're expected to be successful in some sort of business, intelligent and achieving, and strong.
BUT this book has allowed me to understand all my feminine qualities that I've been suppressing and hiding my whole life!
Let me tell you something: You can read this book for 10 years, and I guarantee you will get a hell of a lot from it doing that, but 3 days in a workshop with David was worth 2 years of reading his book.
I have given this book to countless men.
Women read it and then give a copy to their husband, HOPING he reads it and GETS it.Let's put it this way: David GETS men and women.
This is THE book for men.
I've given this to a lot of men who have loved it, and their lives have changed dramatically...
I have a problem with books like this, in that no matter how much good advice they present (i.e. take responsibility for your life), they do so from an incorrect perspective -- that you have a "masculine" or "feminine" energy (which I object to in itself, as it confuses personal spirituality and morality with gender roles) and that the best thing you can do is try to be the best "man" that you can.
The world that Mr Deida presents isn't one that I find appealing or even desirable.
It was introduced to me by a friend of mine just going through a divorce, and feeling like he'd suppressed his masculine side for 20 years (of which I actually witnessed the final few years).
He was living this book like a paint-by-numbers guidebook.
You know, a sort of acid test to those women who I felt would be most sensitive to a message of "be a better man by embracing the masculine." Their first superficial reaction was as expected-- umbrage, and even outrage.
But then, slowly, as they digested it, and the message percolated, they kinda universally (and separately, I might add) *liked* the idea of a man being a man.
If you strongly dislike charismatic people and are slightly jealous that one man can summon so much energy through his research to write a book that doesn't degrade women, focuses on a man finding his passion, discusses the natural polarity of relationships and cuts to the core of one's self definition of manhood - then maybe this book would be more your style: The GameThis is a book for a man (or a female, in my case, as I love men) to reflect on their purpose, point of presence and goals in life.
Read this book.
In “The Way of the Superior Man”, David Deida provided the best relationship advice I’ve read since Bertrand Russell’s’ “Marriage and Morals” or “Mating in Captivity” by Esther Perel, the best advice on male sexuality since Mantak Chia’s “The Multi-Orgasmic Man”, and not since Viktor E.
Deida understands of the masculine and feminine essence and temperament is unparalleled in anything that I’ve ever read and I’d go as far as to say that “The Way of the Superior Man” is a book that every man should read at least once in their life time.In this book, David Deida is unapologetic in his approach on male/female relations and after hearing his profound relationship advice, I was left thinking “Doink!
as you dissolve each layer and move toward the center, you will more and more be living from your deeper purposes.Don't use your family as an excuseDont' get lost in tasks and dutiesStop hoping for your woman to get easier: a woman will always test her man for the pleasure of feeling his strength in loving, his capacity to transcend nuisance, his persistence in his own truth, and his capacity to share the truth in love with her, even when she is complaining, especially when she is complaining.The truth of the feminine is whatever she is really feeling, in this present moment.Praise your womanInstead of tolerating your woman's moods of closure and complaint, open her moods with your skillful loving.Don't analyze your woman: 90% of a woman's emotional problems stem from feeling unlovedDon't suggest that a woman fix her own emotional problem: one of the deepest feminine desires in intimacy is to be able to relax and surrender, knowing that her man is taking care of everything.
Typical, new age bunk. Takes a truth from the Bible (gender roles) and harps on it like there was no other point to life (there is). Obsessed with sex. What a waste of paper. No real inventive thought here at all.
A feminine energy, as Deida describes it, can still be strong, smart, gentle, independent, loving and not try to decimate the masculine people of the world.With the research I've done, the biggest problem I run into is that people won't believe how destructive women can be (and not just mentally!).I tried to read this book with an open mind and at first I was doing ok, but the deeper I got, the worse it got and the more I kept shaking my head.
I think many people want to believe his opinion and so they accept what rings true and ignore all the other crap (sorry to use that word, but that's the cleaner version).
I could relate to almost 100% of what David wrote, and I mean 100% - there was hardly a single line in the whole book that did not resonate with me on the most intimate level.
I had a taste of this deep intuitive resonance when reading Nietzsche, the Stoics or Kazantzakis, but nothing at this level.
It felt like it was written by my older, wiser self.I don't know how alike we all actually are, but I recommend the book especially to those men who identify themselves with xNTJ personality type.
I actually had to stop reading the Book The Way of the Superior Man after reading about 1/3 of it.
(misogyny) It seemed like I was reading something from the 1940's to 50's from his views of how a man should be in life or act??
His way of thinking of how couples and what a Man is in particular should live his life are not suited to me.
(He actually said that A Man's Purpose in life was more important than his relationship with his partner/ wife) That bothered me quite a bit!
Giving them the sort of challenge that only another man can pose.His blunt simplicity in tackling the real issues men face when moving into their 'full man strength' - as my girlfriends and I call it - is as educational as it is entertaining.And just when you are comfortable with this book as an Oprah-era self help tome, all neat and tidy for prime time, Mr. Deida hits you with a raw sensuality and Taoist connectivity that finds you with your hand down your pants (or up your skirt, as it was in my case.)And in order to unlock the Heart of every matter along the way he paints lines of prose with Haffizian precision.
You learn to leave it open, even if sometimes it hurts.Gentlemen, be prepared.
Completing the challenges posed by this book may have you feeling beyond all grown up.
This book is for any guy who has ever tried in vain to understand women. And for any woman who is interested in how men and women complement, and therefore frustrate, each other. I have never felt so explained before, in a way that I could never have done myself.At times a bit condescending, and there was some profanity I thought unnecessary, but overall an incredible book.
Amazing read, all men should read this. He nails the masculine/feminine archetypes and suggests that men take more responsibility for the relationship by always focusing on their purpose, and women focusing on their radiance. It's hard for me to put into words the impact this book has had -- ultimately it was a huge relief to know that my big dream for what I want in a relationship is not impossible -- it is articulated beautifully by Deida in this book.
As someone generally extremely critical of this sort of stuff, i decided to try and have somewhat of an open mind towards self-development. Still, i would say most of this book consists of that which i cannot possibly justify as being anything other than spiritual new age bullshit, but there are some good parts as well, thus it exceeded my personal expectations
The gauntlet he throws down is an invitation for the man reading to take responsibility for his purpose and direction in life and to open himself fully to love, neither blaming nor resisting the inherent fluid, intuitive nature of "his woman".One of the key points he hits on, which partially answers the age old question of "What do women really want?" is the issue of TRUST.
The differences in how one takes a person's track record or reputation into account, e.g.: Deida says men more strongly consider someone's reputation and are more willing to let a minor transgression slide, while women will judge solely based on someone's most recent behavior.
Crucially, before reading WotSM I've thought it unfair when harshly judged by my partner for small mistakes; now I understand that my partner was someone who only takes recent actions into account.The key to making use of the kind of advice in this book is to remember that we are in relationships with individuals, not archetypes.
Read again late November 2013: And I stand by the 4-star rating and review.
A couple of things make more sense to me now, interestingly enough.Original review:An interesting book with interesting and, I imagine, provocative views on many a thing concerning the masculine and the feminine.
But when all is said and done I think much of what the author says is, essentially, true.
Not something I would have said two years ago but now, well, now I do;-)My main problem with the book was the unnecessary repetition.
It should have been cut by at least 25%.
His book comes across as little more than the egotistical blovating of a narcissist who's out to bilk his followers for all the love and attention he can get by regurgitating quasi-spiritual pablum.Deida's prose is sometimes called "poetic," which is a nice way of saying that he's cheesy, vague, and likes to spout trite New Age cliches as if they were ancient wisdom.
There's no empirical evidence presented for this assertion, so I assume this is the author's best guess, but I think at that point, the usefulness of the "polarity" concept's application to relationships is being overused.
I wish someone had given me this book as a young man, not as a middle-aged one because I might have become a half-decent person sooner in life.
Too often the attraction of the radiance of a woman who operates from the full power of her feminine or the charisma of a man who operates from the full majesty of his masculine is conflated with sexual desire.
Although written primarily for men, this book also provides useful insights for women and suggests language for successfully navigating this charged and treacherous territory, which is unnecessarily painful for both genders.
This a book on how a man of confidence and superior ethics must deal with the love of his life. There are a lot of gems and insights provided by the author which really opened my eyes to intimate relationships.
The final thing I thought was problematic was the title itself, he continues throughout the book to describe the "superior man" and his ideal set of behaviors, to assume that this one way of life or this one path makes one man superior over another is absurd.
He even goes so far as to state that people that were in relationships without the perfect "balance" of masculine and feminine were doomed to sexual frustration, misunderstanding and eventual failure.
Which means my loving relationship with my masculine boyfriend is out of balance and not working.This book is supercharged with spirituality and I knew that going in.
It's very relaxing and I especially like doing it while I'm at the gym; I think it makes my abs firmer which make me look fitter.
I thought it was funny how the author basically makes it seem like most women are crazy and emotionally unstable.
Like most self-help books, it was mostly common sense except this one had some new-age craziness mixed with it.
Do I feel like a more "superior man" after reading it?
You don't really get any more "superior manly" than that, I don't think.
Excellent! A must-read for everyone, especially for men and women in quest of superiority i.e. To meet human-being purpose.It is time to evolve beyond the macho jerk ideal, all spine and no heart," writes David Deida. "It is also time to evolve beyond the sensitive and caring wimp ideal, all heart and no spine.”The Way of the Superior Man presents the ultimate challenge and reward-for today's man: to discover the "unity of heart and spine" through the full expression of consciousness and love in theInfinite openness of the present moment. ISBN 1-59179-257-69
Or by fully immersing in 'The Way of the Superior Man' to get a pseudo-spiritual, eastern-angle of masculine and feminine energy dynamics.I want you to join me into a deep understanding the spiritual male with the following quotes:"We are designed to outgrow everything - including our desire to experience and improve the realms of money, sex, and intimacy.""He doesn't need to be right all the time, nor does he need to be always safe, cooperative, and sharing, like an androgynous Mr. Nice Guy.""[The] inner masculine, which, at the level of human character, appears as direction, or clarity of purpose, and vision.""If you are a woman, you are probably more independant than your mother was.
Audiobooked
This reviewer has a decidedly western cultural background as well as a post-evangelical religious perspective.That said, most of the book deals with things in a manner that puts what it has to say in a context that doesn't require the reader to accept the cultural and religious elements, such as they are, to understand what is being said and to receive and apply many of the truths it has to say.There is a strong focus upon recognition of energy both in terms of quality and quantity and how to achieve internal balance as well as relational balance.
Incredible book.
It is interesting to notice that man usually go from the first stage to the second by exploring more their feminine.
This is also true for the women as well they go in the second stage by exploring their masculine side.
In the second stage people start to thing about their family and friends as well not only about themselves.
Another interesting point is that the way of development of the masculine is through criticize.
The other exercise is asking your partner what is his deepest purpose and giving him feedback how in the moment he is by the way he is saying it.
