https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70420.The_Undercover_Economist
It doesn’t seem to make sense – but both Sowell and Harford show clearly that when countries play to their comparative advantages they are, in fact, better off.In both books this also leads to the idea that I should give up my self imposed ban on Nike products – as despite the horrible, sweatshop conditions that Nike creates and profits from, those conditions are better for the workers in third world countries than the existing conditions outside of those workshops are.
Where Sowell simply denies there is a problem, Harford proposes ways of addressing these issues which are not just saying ‘there’s no place like the market’ over and over again while clicking your heels together.
معلومات جديدة كليا بالنسبالى بداية بالاقتصاد الى يهم الفرد العادى لما يدخل اى محل عشان يبدأ السباق بينه و بين البائع اللى عايز يديك اسوأ سلعة بأعلى سعر و انتا عايز احسن سلعة بأقل سعر و غالبا بيكون البايع هو الكسبان لكسل المشترى انه يجادل معاه شوية مرورا بالنظام الاقتصادى عموما اللى بين فيه الكاتب نظريات لمفكرين اقتصاديين كبار بجمل بسيطة و تجارب دول و عرض وجهة نظره فى ضريبة التأثير الخارجى اللى اقتنعت بيها نسبياً و افضل فصول الكتاب بالنسبالى لما اتكلم عن الكاميرون و سر فقر الدول الفقيرة عموماً ، و اللامبالاة اللى من النظام الكاميرونى و الشعب على حد سواء تجاه الفشل الاقتصادى و السبب كالتالى و الفصل الأخير اللى بيتكلم عن الصين اللى كانت فى خمسينيات القرن الماضى أفقر من الكاميرون و لما بدأت النمو الاقتصادى فى عهد ماوتسى بدأت من أسوأ نقطة بداية تسببت فى مجاعة راح ضحيتها أكتر من 30 مليون شخص !!لكن بعد ماوتسى و سياسياته العقيمة بخمس سنين بالظبط فى عهد الزعيم دينج بقت الصين دولة غنية و أسرع الدول فى النمو الاقتصادى فى التاريخ البشرى كله !!
Harford says he's going to tell you how the world really works, how economics provides insight into our activity.
What he really tells you is how awesome the world would be if it was run by economists and everybody always acted rationally, if by 'rationally' you mean the economics jargon of 'assigning a monetary value to every single action/object in life' and not the common usage of 'according to the rules of logic'.
And given the recent global financial crisis, the bragging and smugness of his worldview are particularly galling - financiers acted exactly as 'rationally' as economists predicted, and look what that got us.Why did I keep reading this annoying book?

كتاب رائع مليء بمعلومات جديدة ومفيدة، شرح جوانب عديدة من الإقتصاد بطريقة ممتعة نمّت شغفي لعلم الاقتصاد،جاوب على تساؤلات كثيرة كانت تدور في ذهني.. أظن أنني سأعود لقراءته مرة أخرى..ترجمة عربية ممتازة!
Like most of the stuff I studied on my various degrees it has mostly passed back out of my brain through a lack of active use.
I found this book to be a useful reminder of some basic economics packaged up in easy to understand every day concepts.
I put this in that category of making complicated subjects easy to understand.
Questioning Amazon's $40 share price, and explaining that the claim that one day there will only be 4 major internet portals is nonsense because there is no barriers to entry seem slightly amusing now.
(Does anyone even use the term "internet portal" anymore?).
An essential one for every economics students. The practical approach towards everyday walk of life. There are no any conventional ideas that can let you down or give you the feeling of reading a boring academic book.
Like a bad cup of coffee, I'm already struggling to force this down. As a former World Bank employee and Financial Times editor it will come as no surprise that Hardford thinks trade unions and free healthcare are bad, sweatshops are good and the free market will fix everything. There's something to be said for knowing your enemy, but The Undercover Economist's smug, patronising tone and Harford's self-avowed preference for armchair reasoning will have you grinding your teeth in frustration.
I'm just saying.)***Original review:For me, the standard in "Economics for People Who Hate Economics" books is Freakonomics by Steven D.
This is another entry in the field, and I liked it as much or more than Freakonomics.
Harford does a fantastic job of explaining basic economic theory in even more basic terms, using examples like Starbucks, the government of China, and traffic congestion to make his point.
He's got a great sense of humor and a good turn of phrase.
From buying a used car to purchasing health insurance, Harford takes a look at a variety of situations that can have a real pratical impact on how we look at some of our everday activities.
Millions of American citizens are uninsured and we still spend more money per citizen than Britain, and they offer universal health care.
How is that possible?Harford goes on to talk about how health care as a business, like the used car business, causes problems.
In health care, Blueshield is essentially a buyer who doesn't know if it is buying a lemon, an unhealthy person, or healthy person.
Harford also talks about the problems associated with universal health care in Britain.
This book was a fantastic overview of (what I think is) basic economic theory, but told in a way that made it incredibly readable.
Harford is a great writer and manages to frame his topics in a way that is both highly relevant to real life while being simple enough that anyone can understand.
It ranges from the small (the economics of Starbucks and how to prevent traffic jams) to the huge (why poor countries stay poor and how china became rich).
I imagine that someone with a serious background in economics might not learn much, and therefore might not be impressed by this book, but for me it was perfect.
The best bits are at the start (price targeting in coffee) and at the end (China's economic success). Best-selling, but not particularly brilliany by any means. The book's success - as it's author might testify - is probably down to the supply and demand ratio for economics books that aren't bloody dull.
His arguments that free markets consist of many people making voluntary choices that are mutually beneficial, that poor countries are poor because of unreliable government protection of property rights, that China's Great Leap Forward cost tens of millions of lives, that command economies are inherently inefficient without a price system, and that externalities are market failures which may sometimes justify government intervention are spot on.
I know what you are thinking; Am I interested enough in this topic to pay $21.00 for this book?
Will the benefits I will enjoy in the pleasure of the reading experience and the knowledge I will gain outweigh the loss of money?
Will the benefit to the economy of Canada from my cash injection into publishing industry outweigh the growth to my personal debt levels?
Should I borrow a copy from the library?These are exactly the kinds of questions reading this will help you think your way through.
It is as engaging a read as you are likely to find on the dismal science.
This book was good. Surprising. It is because it dealt mostly with coffee, beer, poker and game theory - some of the things I'm obsessed with. Tim did a great job revealing about Cameroon, Nepal, India and yeah China's economy. Every pop economics book that I've read have said something about China's rise, here there is a chapter dedicated to it.A worthy read.
Read it as a re-introduction to a few economic concepts I was introduced to at business school. Enjoyed it. Perhaps if the subject had been taught this way, I would have retained and used a lot more of what I had studied.
Whoever calls Tim Harford a die-hard free market fanatic should really do some research. For an economist this guy is almost a communist!Really decent book. Quite informative even it had me thinking "doh, I knew that" on a couple of occasions. And now I don't feel cheap when buying Tesco value products. I feel smart!
بس هاد الحكي مو صحيح، الأرقام والمعادلات المعقدة نوجدت لتغطية أفكار أعمق من خلال صياغتها بقالب رياضي يبعد غير المختصيين عن المجال ويساعد المختصيين.
بيحاول المخبر الإقتصادي يتجاهل الأرقام والمعادلات الرياضية ليوصل للأفكار الإقتصادية وكيف الها تأثير مباشر عحياتنا.
وبينتهي الكتاب بأوسع صورة ممكنة يلي هيي اقتصاد الدول وأهمية التجارة وشو يلي بيخلي الدول الغنية غنية والفقيرة فقيرة وتأثير الفساد.كان كتاب جيد نوعاً ما واهم الفوائد يلي اخدتها منو هي اساس فهم أعمق لأساس الندرة وعلاقتها بالأسعار ومدخل لنظرية الألعاب وعرفت صعوبة اتخاذ قرار اقتصادي ولو كان الظاهر عكس هالشي.
Then he asserts that it's ok we are losing jobs to China, and in fact we are actually gaining jobs in the US.
The problems he sidesteps is that all the jobs we are gaining in this country are crap.
Especially here in 2011 it's pretty difficult to stomach his assertions that the world economy is making things better for everyone, especially in the light of disasters like the 2008 bank bailout.My recommendation: read the first half of this book for the interesting info about marginal rents and how to determine if markets are fair.
naprawdę dobra i ciekawa książka. prosty język, jasne przykłady i analogie.rozdział o licytacji częstotliwości 3G w UK był świetny. ten o wpływie globalizacji i wolnego handlu na świat pokazuje, że nie wszystko jest takie proste i jednoznaczne. warto przeczytać.
His dumbed-down versions of the theory of comparative advantage, of Ricardo on rent, of supply and demand, and of marginal decision-making were not going to make people leap to accept his later analyses of a random set of big policy issues.Indeed, it turned out that no member of the group had changed their mind about any of the political issues he discussed as a result of reading his book.
Fallas del mercado: el poder de la escasez, las externalidades y la información privilegiada.Lecciones básicas de la economía: combatir el poder de la escasez y la corrupción, corregir las externalidades, maximizar la información, acertar con los incentivos, relacionarse con otros países e incorporar mercados.Los precios "dicen la verdad". Son el verdadero reflejo del costo para las empresas y del valor para los clientes.
Enjoyable read. A well-written, clever view of many of the most practical concepts in economics.
In fact, Harford has a great style, and like those other books he couches his discussion of economics in everyday things that we're all familiar with: buying a cup of coffee, health insurance, traffic, and orange juice.
It's interesting to see how an economist approaches these issues with an ultra rational approach to decision-making, and it's pretty shocking to see the extremes to which that kind of thinking can you lead you --some of Harford's propositions would nip problems like cross-town traffic or public health in the bud, but they may offend our sense of justice in the process.
In a sense , I meant to say that by putting the topic "coffee" as a first topic it attracted my attention such as raising prices and sugar coating products to sell out to price sensitive customers who was willing to buy what was worth more than price.Tim harford nether less tackles the basics of economics in his book by showing us the first part of his book in a micro-economic introduction to the second half of a macro economic.
Bueno y malo a partes iguales.Tim Harford se dedica a lo largo de varios capítulos a desentrañar la economía detrás de las cosas de cada día.
Si uno no tiene unos conocimientos aceptables de economía, como es mi caso, encontrará este libro agradable.
Si los tiene, puede que lo encuentre aburrido.Hay capítulos que sobresalen, especialmente los cotidianos como el del supermercado o el café; y otros que se hacen muy pesados, como el de China o los seguros de salud.
Por comentar: ya había oído que la traducción era mala, y confirmo que hay frases casi imposibles de entender.En definitiva: no es una joya, pero es una buena forma de tener otra perspectiva de este mundo globalizado.
An excellent book which is much in the same vein as Steven D.
Levitt's Freakonomics, although perhaps a bit more geared towards mainstream topics.
Harford throughout the course of this book, engages in insightful discussions on topics as wide ranging and diverse as 'Who pays for your coffee?' to discussing the impacts of globalization and market based reforms in China.
The book provides plenty of thoughtful(and thought-provoking) analysis and tries to propose effective and efficient solutions to the problems, from an economist's standpoint.
Readers will find this book to be a highly informative and at the same time a thoroughly enjoyable reading experience.
I gave up on this one. I might have enjoyed it more if I hadn't already read a few books about behavioral economics, Nudge and Predictably Irrational. I'd also heard Dan Ariely interviewed several times. It would have made more sense to read this first, before those others, which, in some ways, debunk many assumptions in Undercover.I found his cutesy tone annoying as hell. But, bless him, he admirably keeps it up. Well, at least through the first six or so chapters that I read.Major points for the nifty cover art, though.
Pithy writing and a lot of economic analysis accessible to the mainstream reader make The Undercover Economist an enjoyable, yet informative, read. It is not technical, even though it is economically solid. The portions on economic calamity in "developing" nations (that aren't actually developing) are worth anyone's time. The sad tale of how massive government corruption permeates the entire economy and society of Cameroon is especially poignant.
Great book, and a crash course in economics while still being very amusing. Similar to freakonomics, but I prefer this one. Even my dad, which has a master in economics and has been working with economics his whole career, greatly enjoyed this book.
