https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6427.Two_for_the_Dough
I love this book!One for the Money, as great as this series is, really didn’t show you the potential of laughter to come.Two for the Dough changes everything!
The relationship between Stephanie and Morelli will leave you smiling.
The awkward moments to the pitter patter wonder moments.Grandma Mazur really steps on stage with her need to pay her respects to the dead.
Playing Dirty Harry and being as sharp as a pistol, Mazur will bring a smile to your face.Stephanie, still new at being a Bounty Hunter, second guesses her abilities.
Lula will appear in this book and let the games begin!
one of them was definitely not Jewish--- An almost hot and heavy scene that turned pretty funny.
This is a bit dated since there are still answering machines, beepers, phone books and car phones but don’t let that discourage you it will remind you of a time where it was harder to get a hold of people and you couldn’t ask google everything.The mystery was okay and I did like how it ended but for me it is all about the characters, the semi-sexual tension happening and Stephanie doing silly things that sometimes go well but more often than not go horrible and hilariously wrong instead.
Review  3 stars to book #2 in the Stephanie Plum mystery series, Two for the Dough, by Janet Evanovich. Since I'm going back to complete reviews on all the books I've read, and there are over 20 in this series, it would be too boring to do a normal review... so I'll keep it short. A few fun things about this one:1. We're still getting to know how crazy Stephanie Plum is compared to everyone else. She's neurotic in a fun way -- sort of like I am.2. This one is all about her libido with Joe More
3 stars to book #2 in the Stephanie Plum mystery series, Two for the Dough, by Janet Evanovich.
Since I'm going back to complete reviews on all the books I've read, and there are over 20 in this series, it would be too boring to do a normal review...
We're still getting to know how crazy Stephanie Plum is compared to everyone else.
She's neurotic in a fun way -- sort of like I am.2.
Not knowing how to properly catch a criminal can really get her in hot water.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544][polldaddy poll=9719251]
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Saturday I had to take the oldest boychild on a three-hour trek to play some ball in Middle of Nowhere, America. Guess what else happened to be right around three hours? For anyone out there chomping at the bit to say . . . .  I’m already well aware. This is my second go ‘round with Stephanie Plum, only this time I’m doing it via audio. It is true that Janet E. eventually began to follow a formula for later books in this series, but at
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Saturday I had to take the oldest boychild on a three-hour trek to play some ball in Middle of Nowhere, America.
This is my second go ‘round with Stephanie Plum, only this time I’m doing it via audio.
But remember, this one is from way back in the day when Evanovich probably thought there would be an eventual end to the series and was trying to write these things in real time so Lula would still be recovering from book #1.
While this was missing Lula, it had plenty of Grandma Mazur to make up for things .
Not quite as good as the first one, but definitely fun! "Sweetie, you are the worst bounty hunter in the history of the world." This is true. Stephanie has settled into her life as a bounty hunter, but that doesn't mean she is necessarily good at it. She blunders her way through things, annoying the hell out of enough people to make sure she is targeted (not exactly on purpose. It just happens), and eventually things work out for her. Eventually. In this book, she is looking for a cousin of More
Stephanie has settled into her life as a bounty hunter, but that doesn't mean she is necessarily good at it.
She blunders her way through things, annoying the hell out of enough people to make sure she is targeted (not exactly on purpose.
I'm trying to make you look good here!And, unfortunately for Morelli, when things go downhill for Stephanie, his car seems to take the brunt of the bad juju.
Everyone knows everyone and most of them are related in that big Italian family way.
I need to keep reading this series because I am dying for Stephanie and Morelli to get together.
Stephanie's' men are Ranger:   As far as I knew, Ranger wore only two colors: army green and bad-ass black.
"I like the melting part."I turned my face toward him, and our eyes held."No," I said."Why not?""Because I've already seen the movie, and I hate the ending.""Maybe it'll have a different ending this time.""Maybe it won't."His thumb traced over the pulse in my neck, and when he spoke his voice was low and cat's-tongue rough.
However, if you like to read for the pleasure of relaxing with a book that brings a smile on your face and does not leave stains of darkness in your soul, this is what you need in your life - a Stephani Plum Book:):):)
I love Stephanie Plum!! This is probably my favorite in the series. Grandma rocks! How often do we get the chance to quote Dirty Harry?Reread—again: March 2018Since I started reading and rereading and rereading these books years ago I have seen lots of books comparing themselves to Stephanie (“a cross between Stephanie Plum and ________.”) But, there is only one Stephanie Plum and the combination of her wit with the unique side characters cannot truly be duplicated, just enjoyed. P. S. Joe thinks Ghost Busters is “a sissy movie”? Losing points, Joe, losing points. 😒
It’s a good thing.
I never read murder mysteries unless written by Carl Hiaasen.The inevitable day came when I found myself without a new book to read.
You don’t read the Stephanie Plum series for the plot necessarily, although some are clever.
It’s the daffy characters and ‘I Love Lucy’ situations.I am going to read them all (he says) and will add them to my bookshelf here only for my Boy Scout merit badge.
The Stephanie Plum series is an industry unto itself, but don’t let this put you off from giving them a go.
Well I didn't really like the first book, but I decided to give this series one more chance.
I really wanted to like it.
The series is so popular and loved by almost all cozy readers, so maybe it's just me.I don't know.
I like the characters.
They are fun.
I love the idea of the series as well, but for some reason I can't get into the stories.
The first book was slightly better than this one in my opinion.I probably won't continue this series, but there really isn't anything bad I can say about the books.
Kenny Mancuso, cousin of Joe Morelli, is on the run after shooting his best friend.
It seems a straight forward case to begin with, but Stephanie never expected cousin Kenny to be so crazy or to have to deal with the stuff he is caught up in.
Lucky for her she has Joe, Ranger, and even Grandma Mazur to help her out!
Kenny was a crazed villain and it was engaging to follow Stephanie as she tried to bring him to justice while also trying to track down some missing coffins as a side job!
Grandma Mazur was even more hilarious in this book than she was in the first.
I will say at least it's easy to read and quick to breeze through.
Morelli is probably the best part, as he's amusing too but his dialogue is well constructed (the scene with Ranger and the truck was probably the best part of the book.) I know many love the Grandmother, and she is cute, but she's also stereotypical - as is the mother and father.These books are fun - the plots are creative enough for this type, the humor is real, the writing easy to digest, characters enjoyable to a point....but it doesn't have a deep core or that much substance other than some predictable staples.
Another fun ride with Stephanie Plum, Grandma Mazur, Morelli and Ranger. Lots of Plum and Morelli in this book. I really enjoyed this book.
Bridget Jones the bounty hunter - round 2.Stephanie is totally inept, but luckily seems to have all the right contacts to help her out.I laughed out loud on a tram at one stage, so I gave that an extra star.Good fun and easy to read, if a bit samey at times.
Basically, there was no real climax.I liked this book slightly less than "One for the Money" and if I could, I'd rather give it 3.5 stars instead of 4.
Everything about it - Grandma Mazur's antics, Morelli's smoldering hotness, Stephanie's happy-go-lucky attitude - were simply no longer fresh.
However, I still enjoyed "Two for the Dough" quite a bit and will continue on with the series, but it is obvious to me that I can only take both Stephanie and the burg in small doses, with long breaks between the books.
I finished the second book of the Stephanie Plum series in about 3 days.
Evanovich still had me chuckling.I must say I was VERY excited to see that Joe Morelli was also in book 2.
I have never had a "crush" on a character in a book before but now I do!Plus the relationship/sexual tension that is going on between Stephanie & Joe has me turning the pages as well.
Makes me wish I were Stephanie & it also makes me wish Joe Morelli were real, lol!Aside from all that, Evanovich created another great plot & the book never got boring.
Morelli is fantastic and the chemistry between him and Stephanie is great, they have a very complicated history so she is very wary of trusting him but it's obvious he's more than a little interested and I'm enjoying watching their relationship develop.I've been wanting to reread these books and catch up with the most recent releases (I think I got to about book 15 in my last read through) for a long time now so I'm glad to be reading the series with a group of friends.
And poor Morelli, when he’s near Stephanie his police car is always in danger.
Just like his previous car.Grandma Mazur was also a lot of fun.
I think she’s the craziest character of the series and that’s something since everyone in Trenton has serious issues 😂I am also so so so in love with the relationship between Stephanie and Morelli.
“You’re going to give me more than that, cupcake.”“Forget it.”“Not likely,” Morelli said.
I pressed my nose to the door and looked through the peephole.Morelli grinned at me.“This is war,” I yelled through the door.“Luck for me,” Morelli said.
I forgot how much fun the series can be and the sense of humor and how fast paced the books are. I really should get back to this series. I liked the tension and banter between Morelli and Stephanie which made the book an enjoyable read. I wasn't sure about him in the first one but him likable in this. Also Stephanie's Grandma is awesome in this. Needs more Stephanie Ranger moments. But it also has some weird and tense moments. Especially near the end. Pretty good sequel.

Much to the family's chagrin, Stephanie and Granny may soon have the elusive Kenny in their sights.Fast-talking, slow-handed vice cop Joe Morelli joins in the case, since the prey happens to be his young cousin.
Another case like this and she'll be a real pro.Two for the Dough is irresistible fun and powerful suspense entertainment from an acclaimed author who is already a national star.This book was as wonderful, fun, action-packed, suspenseful, and enjoyable as the very first in the series.
Personally driving a '53 Buick doesn't sound bad to me, and Steph manages to to end up in it a lot.
In this book Steph and her Grandma manage to to spend a lot of time in their Trenton neighborhood's primary social gathering place, Stiva's Funeral Home.I'd say more but that would require a spoiler warning and you know how I hate those.
(RIGHT)Another book I listened to in my truck while at work.
The novel ran hot and cold, pretty good though.
Enjoy....and if you're a female pick one guy for goodness sake, and be sure to pick the correct gun for your purse.
Kenny Mancuso has shot his old friend (Moogey) and has skipped bail, so Steph is out on the case to bring him in.
He hurts, threatens and beats anyone who get's in his way (including old ladies, but more on that later), he cut his own damn finger off to see what would happen...
The other 'bad guy' in this book is Spiro, who works in his dad's funeral home.
LOL I loved the way that Morelli just kept showing up at her parent's house for dinner.
Morelli was turning a blind-eye while Steph did things her 'not so legal' way, and had an accident.
Rating: 4/5Stephanie Plum is the new bounty hunter in Trenton, and after her first big case she is going after some more easy targets.
Kenny Mancuso was supposed to be one of those easy targets but she can't seem to find him anywhere and Joe Morelli, her old fling, cop and Kenny's cousin seems to be following her.
Stephanie will go from stake outs to funeral homes to find Kenny and figure out why he doesn't want to be found.This was the first Stephanie Plum novel I read and I can't say it disappointed me at all.
I am glad I found a series like this one and wait to read more of Stephanie's adventures.
I enjoyed this book a lot more than book 1. This one has a lot more humor in it and the relationship between Morelli and Stephanie is building. Guess we'll see where that takes us. But at least Morelli seems like a nicer person now. Grandma Mazur is my favorite character, hands down! I love her witty remarks that are ridiculous for an old lady. Makes me laugh. It's always good when a book can make you laugh out loud....
It was cute, it was fun, but I don't know if I'll pick up the next. Too much description of clothes (hello Anita Blake) and the fun factor is wearing off.
Surprisingly enough, Two for the Dough was significantly better.The first 30 or so pages were much like book one.
Similar commentary, reintroduction to characters introduced to us in One for the Money, Stephanie fumbling around in her new role as bounty hunter, etc.
But by page 50 or so, Stephanie pulled through.
Additionally, the “mystery” of this book is significantly more intriguing, making the book all that more enjoyable.I can’t believe I’m reading a book where male members are sent through the mail, endearing characters come in the form of overweight ex-ho’s, and funeral viewings are a form of social entertainment.
Nonna Mazur ed una calibro quarantacinque.Morelli con i gioielli al vento dopo essere andato in bianco.Niente di tutto questo ha prezzo."Sono invitato a pranzo?""No. Hai già avuto il budino. Se ti porto a casa per pranzo non molleranno più l'osso. Due inviti sono come un fidanzamento".---"Cosa ci fai qui? Ti avevo detto niente pranzo"."Ti sto proteggendo. Ti aspetterò in macchina"."Bene"."Bene" ribatté Morelli."Stephanie" chiamò mia madre dalla porta. "Cosa ci fai là fuori con il tuo ragazzo?""Hai visto?" dissi a Morelli. "Cosa ti avevo detto? Adesso sei il mio ragazzo"."Donna fortunata".Ehi TU! Sì, tu che non hai ancora iniziato questa serie.
After finishing this book, I had to go back and change my rating on "One for the Money" because book 2 is far more entertaining and much better written. Stephanie Plum and Morelli's chemistry is sizzling, the criminal element was interesting and the secondary characters had more opportunity to interact with our main protagonist. The only downside was that Ranger only has a cameo appearance in this book, but considering that there are a lot of books in this series, I'm guessing his reappearance will eventually happen.
Another cute read but enough of the cat and mouse been Stephanie and Joe.My mind wandered on this one and I didn’t really feel motivated to rewind and find out what I missed.I’ll move into the next one because I’m getting these from the library. After that one I’ll see if I’ll continue the series. The narration was good.
Weaker than One for the Money, and less funny, but it works as an in-between read. Or palate cleanser, if you will.
