https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14785.Chosen_Prey
A long Minnesota winter has left Lucas Davenport in one of his funks, but fortunately there’s a hunt for a new serial killer to put a spring in his step and a song in his heart.James Qatar is an art history professor who likes luring lonely women into romances and then strangling them.
There’s the usual Sandford cat-and-mouse game with the reader getting Qatar’s psychotic point of view as he engages in increasingly violent efforts to keep from being caught.It’s a good news/bad news scenario for Lucas on the personal side of things in this one.
Disappointment is magnified because enhanced expectations are not met.There are two major problems with the ending to Chosen Prey.
She continues to play a significant role throughout the story--in fact is, in part, directly responsible with how events wind down--and yet when Qatar slips his surveillance with the intention of killing her, their confrontation happens “off-screen.” (view spoiler)[We’ve already witnessed him kill twice, one of whom was his mother; in neither case is the reader as intimately connected as we are to this character.
(view spoiler)[The character in questions was always going to do something.
This does not mean that Weather has decided that she would like to be engaged to Davenport again, but her biological clock is ticking and she does need someone to father the child...In the midst of all this, a young woman's decomposing body is discovered partially buried on a rural hillside.
As Davenport attempts to untangle the mystery, a rural Wisconsin marshal appears with a file he's been keeping on missing young women who have disappeared much like Davenport's victim.
(This gives nothing away; as is almost always in the case in these books, the reader meets the killer before Davenport even appears on the scene.) Qatar has some particularly sick fantasies that he is acting out and is capable of some pretty unsettling violence.
I'm reading through the whole, "Prey," series. Chosen Prey, is not Sandford at his best. There is an excellent interview with the author on the audio version worth a listen. 6 of 10 stars
I'm reading these books in order and loving every minute of it. To me - this book is a 3 star read- I wish Davenport wasn't with Weather- but I could wish all I want - she is here to stay . Having said that this book was a fast read, ok read- not the best- so why the 4 stars? Well, simply the series is just amazing so because of that , I added the other star. John Sandford does an amazing job with all these stories, and looking forward to getting into book 13 !!
2nd read - Lucas is pulled into a strange case involving a decomposing body on a hillside.
A crusty lawman joins Lucas's posse, looking for his lost niece and a few other young, blond ladies who've disappeared.I really enjoyed the police procedure, as our heroes try to tie the ends together.
Some readers think this antagonist is one of Sandford's weakest, but in hindsight, he makes few mistakes, leaving Davenport frustrated.I had to re-read the last 20 pages to look at the clues I'd missed.
There is a huge twist, and a heart-breaking finale.1st reading - The 12th Lucas Davenport story, with a history art professor who has a devious compulsion.
Twelfth in the Lucas Davenport thriller series and revolving around an unorthodox cop in Minneapolis. It's been a year since  Easy Prey , 11.My TakeWhat I like about this series is that it's standard mystery/thriller reading, but Sandford's characters come out so real. That encounter between Lucas and Jeff Baxter was great. They could be talking about golf or tennis, but they're batting around ideas for a deal for a scumbag that Baxter is representing. There are the political issues when Rose Ma
Then it gets even better when Kidd does his assessment of the quality of the artist *see me grinning like a mad fool*.Seriously though, Qatar is a piece of work.
Well, and the fact that he is so delusional at the best of times.LOL, good advice from Del:"'It just occurred to me that there've only been two women on the newscast,' Marcy said.
It's simply a matter of applying that artist's eye as opposed to the pervy one.I gotta say, I can't believe the cops didn't think about protecting Ellen.Omigod, I thought as Lucas did, and then Weather finishes out her thought.
Another psycho, so not quite as good as the previous or the next books, but still quite good. As usual, the thrill is in the chase. It's not just about catching the guy, but doing so with the available resources & making a strong enough case that a conviction can be made. That can be a tough proposition & it leads to a lot of heartbreak. Very well done in this case with great motives throughout. That's why this gets 4 stars.On to the next!
James Qatar is one of the creepiest things ever in a book. Right up there with Hannibal Lechter---almost Great ending, too. Totally unexpected.
Starts out with real promise but then kind of just putters through. Missing the elements that made earlier books captivating.
“All extremes of feeling are allied with madness.”― Virginia Woolf, OrlandoObsession.James Qatar is obsessed with small-town blond young women.
He certainly is interested in teaching her what she wants to know.Terry Marshall is obsessed with finding the killer of his blond niece.
A deputy sheriff, he has compiled a file with facts about his niece's disappearance and included quite a few similar cases.
Given the similarities of the disappearances, it looks like they've got a serial killer.Lucas Delaware has a new case.....And we have another great read in a series which is certain to obsess you.
Two-haiku review:Mind of a killer,Strangling, burying small blondesOver many years.Lucas and WeatherTogether, thinking babies.Seems like about time.

Somewhat early in this heart pounding thriller one particular paragraph jumped out at me : "James Qatar was an art professor and a writer, a womanizer and genial pervert and pipe smoker, and a thief and a laughing man and a killer." - I knew that author John Sandford's twelfth Lucas Davenport entitled, "Chosen Prey" was going to be really good.
A series of outrageous drawings featuring women in really perverted sexual poses begins to lead the Minneapolis P.D. to several missing women cases dating back several years.
"Chosen Prey" may be one of the top two or three Davenport to date in this series,(2001).
Book 12 of Sandford's Lucas Davenport series.This book explores the demented mind of Professor James Qatar who is an art history professor at a small college in Minnesota.
As he has moved throughout the Midwest the bodies are left in his wake.Davenport and his support team are called to find the killer.
Added to the team is an older police officer from Wisconsin who has let the hunt for the killer get a little personal since his niece was one of the victims.Another good read about a demented killer.
The only problem I had with the story was how Davenport figures out the killer is Qatar.
This is another of the better books in John Sanford's "Prey" series (they're all good, so I suppose my differentiation is mostly because the characters in some grab me more than in others).
But I do love it when the bad guy or gal - in this case a serial killer - is revealed to the reader up front.
A big part of the thrill of the read, then, is how and when the identity will be known by the "hero" as well - in this case, Minneapolis Deputy Chief Lucas Davenport.
Another great detective story by John Sandford. This story has the Assistant Chief of Police Lucas Davenport trying to figure out what and to who are strange murders happening. Obviously a mass murderer but who and why as each murder scene is totally cleaned by the criminal. Watching and experiencing the clue seeking and detective work of Lucas are spell binding and just plain hard to put down detective whodunit mystery work. I have come to really enjoy all of Sandford's writings. A must read.
This time the serial killer is art history professor James Qatar. He is fixated on young blondes.This is a great Prey book. The reader knows the killer and gets to watch as Lucas Davenport and his team stumble their way through the clues.Davenport is back with Weather and a marriage is being planned and maybe even a child. Davenport seems to have settled down somewhat and even grown up a bit.Loved the book and the development of the characters
Indeed, with the help of a Wisconsin law enforcement officer, James is identified as the suspect.
Unfortunately, he is not identified rapidly enough to avoid the death of another woman.Lucas's professional life is in question.
He and Rose Marie are quite likely to be out of work soon, as soon as the new mayor is sworn into office, in fact.
Rose Marie is a political fiend, though and she has plans.
Lucas spends much time contemplating her idea and his would-be new position and ultimately decides to follow her lead.His personal life is beginning to stabilize as well.
A short take:This book was just what I needed.
Sandford makes the day-to-day police work behind an investigation fascinating and intense.
By this point, he offers just enough POV chapters with the culprit to make the stakes for Lucas and his team higher.
I really like how Sandford stresses the importance of a solid case, even after Lucas and his team identified and arrested the killer.
Altogether, this story is packed with great characters, humorous chatter, human appetites and frailties and an exciting contest between cops and a wicked, perverse bad guy.
This series just gets more excellent as I read on.
Another good entry in the Lucas Davenport series. Not one of my favorites (hence the 4 star rating), but still very good. The ending was not very satisfying, but probably more like real life than a nice, tidy ending. The villain was not one of my favorites; he had no redeeming qualities. However, there were a couple good minor characters and the almost ubiquitous Del and the pinking shears reference. LOL!
I like Sanford's books. The criminal is introduced early in his books and then you follow along as his main character, Lucas Davenport, tries to catch the criminal. Most of the criminals are killers and they never come to trial. The books are set in Minnesota and Wisconsin and since both states don't have the death penalty, justice is usually administered in another way. This apparently gets the ACLU in a twist.
James Qatar is a hateful character but Sandford falls short of making you hate him as much as you have other criminals in earlier books. The pieces are all there for a great book but it falls slighlty short of the goal. On the other hand, I have just finished reading all the Kidd books and now know who the police person is he had a flinger dinger with :)
Audiobook enjoyable gray plodding pace where we already know the perpetrator. I did not like Sandfords jab at people who watch FoxNews; it had nothing to do with the story line and Sandford definitely benefits from his position in capitalism.Why do people think that 30 years in prison is an accountable sentence for murder?
This one lost me in the middle. It was moving along keeping my interest then 2/3 through it slowed way down and meandered to an ending.
Six stars if that was possible! misleading clues . . . very careful killer . . . sardonic dialogue among the cop crew . . . political currents threatening jobs . . . all circumstantial evidence . . . twists until the very end . . . expected action but not done the way I thought it would be and garnering unexpected results . . . a very satisfying read
Always a page turner,this one did not disappoint.
Another excellent novel in this masterfully crafted series.
Loved it. Great characterisation on the villain. Twists & turns to the unusual end. And Weather and Lucas back together again :)
i was almost finished with what i was reading at the time and as i did not have anything lined up for my next book i decided to try it.
i don't like feeling left out when characters reminisce over events in previous books (marcy and her gunshot wound).
lucas could have talked the old man down, he could have physically stopped it, qatar could have attempted to escape and been shot, could have escaped successfully....
revenge isn't justice.i may or may not track down book 1 of this series and try to start from the beginning.
