https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/718187.Cluny_Brown
Note: I see that when I originally posted this to my shelf (book was read in March) I forgot to include my little review.
The style of writing is classic, literary, and so real that I was subtly pulled into the story right from the start – and without really being aware of how involved I was until I would try to put the book down.
I was completely captivated by Cluny Brown’s story and her character will remain an inspiration to me for a long time to come.
I highly recommend this book as it is a shining character study best experienced rather than told about.
Belinksi was not so worried, but he was delighted to be offered a home in a quiet country house where he can work, and nurture his growing fame, without distractions.Upstairs and downstairs at Friars Carmel were separate spheres; but in each sphere was a person who was oblivious to their position, who reached out from their sphere, and those two people met.Cluny and Belinski met when she was in the library, looking for a certain piece of poetry.“‘Would you write it down for me?” she asked.
I smiled to read the notice from the library that ”A fine of two cents a day will be charged on each book which is not returned according to the rules of the library.” It set the mood for the nostalgia and innocence that was to come.
I was charmed within the first few pages of this novel, and the smile pretty much stayed on my face the whole time I was reading it.
This was the first book I can remember having read by this author, and I liked her style of writing.
I will seek out more of her books for adults.
Others read and enjoyed this because or in spite of what I didn't care for, so be warned and read it if you think you'll enjoy it.(view spoiler)[ I could have been happy with Cluny Brown marrying either the sweet chemist or Mr. Belinski, but which ever it's going to be please let me have the two of them together for some of the book, not the last chapter when it's been the other guy for the whole book, I can't switch myself over to the new choice that quickly.
What a wonderful book!For the past few days I've been in the world of Cluny Brown.Cluny, who's real 
And so when the position of a house maid comes up in a respectable, rich household in the country, Cluny is sent on her way without giving her a chance to demur.It seems Cluny has (according to the employment bureau) all the attributes of the perfect parlour-maid - 'height, plainness and a perfectly blank expression.' What they don't account for is her personality!So Cluny arrives at the expansive Devonshire estate of Friars Carmel.
And when Cluny is confronted with making a serious decision in her life, she doesn't hesitate to make the decision which is right for her.Why Margery Sharp's Cluny Brown is so UniqueMargery Sharp's Cluny is truly memorable.
A novel about a young woman in WWII-era Britain who is deemed not to know her place in life, so her uncle/guardian sends her off to be a housemaid at a country estate.Full review at Another Look BookReminded me of:- “Downton Abbey”; “Upstairs/Downstairs”- D. E. Stevenson (The Blue Sapphire)- Vita Sackville-West (The Heir; All Passion Spent; The Edwardians)- Phillip Rock (The Passing Bells)
Writing for children is more demanding, so those who write for them must be better writers, or at least better storytellers.--> I love a message of this novel.
I am tempted to read again all meetings between (view spoiler)[Cluny and Mr. Belinski (hide spoiler)] to see how their relationship began and developed.--> Margery Sharp had an observant eye.
They were simply perfectly chosen, from main characters to John Frewen and Mrs. Wilson.--> I really appreciate that Margery Sharp didn't end the story at the scene when (view spoiler)[Cluny got into the car.
A simple and amusing little story - easy to whiz through, and good for what ails you! A pleasant way to spend a few winter evenings. I will return to this author!
So dated, and so so charming. Has a touch of Wodehouse, but not as silly, and a touch of Jo March, but much frothier. Things that seems quite obvious to her are dumbfounding to others, and vice versa, but you easily come to agree with her way of thinking. A lovely coming of age story of a young woman with a rather unique charm.
Very cute and funny story about an eccentric, strangely attractive young woman who gets herself in wacky situations. Books like this just make me so happy to be alive and able to read.
No one would describe this as revolutionary novel, and yet the great social changes brought about by World War II are hinted at - and sort of hover about this novel about a young girl from the working classes who just doesn't know 'her place'.
Much of the novel takes place in Friars Carmel, the big estate house in Devon where Cluny Brown joins a skeleton staff in taking care of Lord and Lady Carmel and their son Andrew.
Even Andrew, the reluctant heir, is planning on marrying first and then joining the Air Force by the conclusion of the novel.In a rather unromantic way, this novel is a romance.
Truly delightful and laugh out loud. Brilliant.
At Friars Carmel we meet Sir Henry and Lady Carmel, a sweet and devoted elderly couple who are some of the most lovable people in the book; their young son Andrew, who is entangled in some romantic difficulties as well as wrestling with the question of what to do in the face of the war he believes is coming; Mrs. Maile the housekeeper, sighing for the good old days of six well-trained maids instead of two rather misfit ones.
While I do feel that Cluny made the right choice—she certainly ends up with the person and the life that suits her best, as the last couple of chapters portray so nicely—but Sharp gives so little hint of it beforehand, it just seems to come out of left field.
3 1/2 starsMr. Porrit, a satisfied plumber in his late 40ies, has only one worry - that his niece Cluny Brown doesn't know her place in life.
Quickly, a mansion in Devon wanting a housemaid is found and Cluny is set on a train and dispatched to Friars Carmel.
Here, the lives of the Carmel family, a Polish writer on the run from the Nazis, a stern pharmacist and Cluny collide and all kinds of hijinks ensue.Light, frothy and fun, this is the right book to get you into the mood for spring or out of an emotional slump.
I was enjoying myself, I thought I liked the characters, and then suddenly I wasn't and I didn't.
I think it's more that I thought she was going somewhere else with it.
At best, I can say that the character Cluny seems to embody a spirit of change, of unrest, of a new individuality and unrootedness - a break with tradition (which was necessary and important at the time) that began to happen between the first and second world wars.
Cluny is summed up by the other characters in the book as one who "Doesn't know her place." which I thought was going to make for a ruckus of some sort.
A perfectly good book that fell flat because of my expectations.
Shocking Cluny Brown!
Cluny Brown is a young orphaned lady who ‘doesn’t know her place’ and is sent away from London into service at a large Devonshire estate, Friars Carmel.Without an ounce of cynicism, Cluny questions society's expectations for her life.
At Friars Carmel her genuine nature endears her to everybody, even when she is exasperating them with her inability to stick to convention.But Cluny Brown is not the whole story, and I was very glad about that.
The book could have been more accurately called Friars Carmel.
For me, the story was about Andrew, the heir to the estate.
Cluny was such a fun character, she was honest, fun, and full of surprises.
Cluny adjusts to her new life in her own unique way which involves befriending fellow maids, enjoying her day off walking a neighbor dog, and learning her role in her new home.There are several other interesting characters in the book including the family that is Cluny's new employers and the guests they have at their home.
The entire book is filled with witty dialogue and touching moments and an ending that took me by surprise.
I had read and loved several of the Rescuers books as a child so when I discovered that Margery Sharp had written stories for adults I was intrigued. Well... I really wanted to like this book. It just didn't grab me. The premise was interesting but I never felt connected to the characters. In fact, I disliked most of them. The ending was so unlikely (although I was glad for Cluny) that it made me groan with disbelief. and lucky me, I accidentally ordered this book twice so now I have TWO copies of it.
Und dann übernimmt Cluny Brown auch noch selbst einen Auftrag, weil ihr Onkel gerade nicht da ist.
Den Wortgeplänkeln mit Adam Belinsky, dem Gast des Haus, will sie allerdings nicht ausweichen.Was für Cluny Brown damals ein Abenteuer war, ist heute ziemlich selbstverständlich.
Nicht etwas, dass die Herrschaft unzufrieden wäre, nur kaum ist Cluny außer Sichtweite und ohne Aufsicht, macht sie, was ihr in den Kopf kommt.
Cluny Brown hat die Spontanität der Jugend, sie ist unverstellt und geradeaus.
Da muss das Schicksal doch mehr für sie in petto haben als eine Stellung auf dem Land.
Cluny Brown ist eine, die überall hinkommen kann.
Auch als schlimme Ereignisse ihre Schatten voraus warfen und sich ein polnischer Schriftsteller auf dem Herrensitz, in dem Cluny arbeitete, vor den Nazis versteckte, behielt Cluny ihre pure Lebenslust und war sich auch nie wirklich bewusst, in was für Fettnäpfchen sie immer wieder hinein stapfte.Margery Sharp, von der ich bisher nur Bernard und Bianca kannte, ist in diesem Buch eine ganz besondere Figur gelungen.
Ich hatte jedenfalls die meiste Zeit beim Lesen ein breites Lächeln auf dem Gesicht.Obwohl es auf den ersten Blick eine sehr leichte Lektüre ist, mangelt es der Geschichte nie an Tiefe.
This was simple and a joy to read.
Open Roads Media is publishing ten of Shape's novels as ebooks, and I hope she finds a new generation of fans.Set in pre-war Britain, Cluny is an orphan living with her uncle, a stolid plumber who loves but does not understand her.
His escape from Europe was not just because he was a Pole in Germany--he is also an inveterate Ladies Man."Within a few days Friars Carmel, for perhaps the first time in its history, boiled with passion."Andrew is in love with Betty Cream, whose beauty attracts every male who sees her.
Uncle Arn is a plumber, a hard-working man leading a conventional life, and he’s unsure of the best way to deal with Cluny.It is eventually decided that what Cluny needs is a job – and so she finds herself taking up a position as parlourmaid at Friars Carmel, a country house in Devon which is home to Sir Henry and Lady Carmel and their son, Andrew.
Life at Friars Carmel is about to become much more complicated!I loved Cluny Brown as a character.
Like Julia in The Nutmeg Tree, she’s a real individual and doesn’t conform to the expectations of others, but at the same time she’s friendly, warm-hearted and always has the best of intentions.
We first meet her through the eyes of her Uncle Arn, who is distressed because he feels that Cluny doesn't seem to know her proper place in life.
Uncle Arn is simply beside himself that Cluny doesn't understand that she is a plumber's niece and has no business having tea at the Ritz.Cluny is a young woman living in London in 1938; she is an orphan was raised by her Aunt Floss who has just died.
Adam is also an interesting and quirky character in his own right as he spends his days basking in the country air, taking walks with Lady Carmel and trying to get some inspiration for his latest book.
But she is not the only newcomer to this household : the son of the house, Andrew Carmel, has asked his parents to offer hospitality to Mr. Belinski, a famous Polish author who has had a narrow escape from the Nazis.
Cluny soon gets into the swing of life in the country, whether it's taking a neighbor's dog for a walk, dodging books thrown at her by the irascible Mr. Belinski, or arranging to "happen" to "run in" to the local pharmacist, a dour Scot by the name of Mr. Wilson.
Now that great books are being uncovered from the sands of time, dusted off and presented as shiny new objects, there are many delightful stories to discover.
I recognized the title of the book, but had never read it or seen the movie.
I associated the author's name with the children's books she also wrote.
When this book turned up it was associated in my mind with the children's books and Disney movies about the Rescuers and the Miss Bianca series.
I had not read any of her adult fiction.When this book and Britannia Mews turned up on Early Bird Books for $1.99, I decided to take a chance.
Cluny is a pure delight.
I've never seen the film, but I remember the book sat on my parents' bookshelves and sometime around junior high school , I pulled it down and started reading.
Around the same time I read Saroyan's MY NAME IS ARAM and THE HUMAN COMEDY and THE THURBER CARNIVAL.
I'll always be grateful they were sitting on the shelf at home, waiting to be read.
To be honest, I remember almost nothing of these books now, (except for the Thurber stories and drawings), but the feeling of discovering a new world remains as fresh as ever.
Un classique qui n'a pas pris la poussière.
Car sous des apparences légères et drôles, on a là entre les mains un roman féministe (dans le sens noble du terme) avant l'heure !La langue de Margery Sharp est tout à fait délicieuse : un peu surannée mais point vieillotte, c'est enjoué et plein de peps, notamment dans les dialogues qui ne sont pas sans rappeler ceux d'une (bonne) comédie au théâtre.Mais le sel de ce roman, c'est Cluny Brown : un personnage hors du commun qu'il faut découvrir !En bref, si vous voulez faire un bond dans le passé et que vous appréciez l'humour british, ce roman est pour vous.Mon billet : http://www.plumedecajou.com/2015/08/l...
Old school Brit-Lit. And for anyone who watches old movies, the lead character is very much along the lines of "Georgie Girl".
Everyone behaves just as they ought, except for our protagonist who "doesn't know her place" and does something at the end that no one in the story understands.
Many reviewers also didn't get that while her character wants to please those around her (mostly just to not cause upset), she is very uncomfortable when trying to behave as others think she should.
She ends up connecting with the only person in the story with whom she can do or say whatever she pleases.
