https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10580.The_Breathing_Method
From what I'd heard, or rather read, through my friend's reviews, that this novella isn't that great: I would partially disagree. Stephen King is such a skillful writer: he can make any ordinary story sound incredible; and not everyone can do that. It's true, I agree, that the story, at first, doesn't seem to be that promising/interesting; but The Breathing Method is a story so well told that you get immersed in it that you don't even know it. What would have been an ordinary story, King has made an unforgettable one!Recommended.
>'It is the tale,not he who tells it.'Description: There is a strange club in New York where men tell each other stories.
One night a doctor tells the story of a young woman who gives birth to a baby in the most horrible way!
A spine-chiller from the master of horror.From 'A Winter's Tale' section of the 'Different Seasons collection released in 1982, so this was by way of a re-visit for me.
Another masterful short and sweet novella by the horror mind of Stephen King. This one takes place at a special Club where gentleman gather to tell stories. All stories culminate in the tale of a pregnant women and her fairy bizarre unfortunate delivery. This is truly a horror story with some some specs of light interspersed in it. If you are a horror genre fan this one is a must-read!4 Stars
the novella probably suffers from the fact that it’s packed into Different Seasons with 3 of King’s most famous works, The Body, Shawshank Redemption, and Apt Pupil, and it is really the only true Horror story in the bunch.
In fact, this may be the first time King introduces a concept that will become so prominent in his later works: “There are other worlds than these.” I Don’t recommend this for couples who are about to experience their first pregnancy.
Μπορώ να πω πως είχα πολύ καιρό να ευχαριστηθώ τόσο πολύ μια ιστορία και να επωφεληθώ από αυτή- νιώθω τι αναγνωστικό μου τέλμα να κάνει μερικά βήματα πίσω!Λοιπόν, δεν θέλω να αναπτύξω την υπόθεση μιας και υπάρχει ήδη μια γενική περίληψη πάνω από το κείμενο μια πάρα μόνο θέλω να μιλήσω για τα συναισθήματά που γεννήθηκαν μέσα μετά το πέρας της ανάγνωσης.Αν υπάρχει κάτι που χαρακτηρίζει τον Κινγκ σα συγγραφέα είναι η απύθμενη ικανότητα του να δημιουργεί αληθινούς χαρακτήρες και να σε εκβιάζει συναισθηματικά ώστε να αποκτάς κάποιου είδους σχέση μαζί τους.
This one gave me the creeps alright.Had to learn the breathing method with bated breath for most part.Successfully annulled the effects of reading four Wodehouses in a row.
I had first tried reading it in print as part of Different Seasons and I could not finish it.
This time I listened to it in audio format and really enjoyed it.It's a story about a story and I think that is why I liked it better as an audiobook.
I couldn't finish it in print but really enjoyed it as audio.
The story by Steven King is all about this story telling gentleman's club and how David came to be a "member." However, the purpose of writing it is for Emlyn to tell his story of him as a young doctor treating a young, husbandless, pregnant girl in the 30s.
If I were to teach a class based on this work I would teach a lesson about writing a story from character's voice and not always your own as the author.
The best authors are able to manipulate their writing voices based on the characters that they have created, rather then utilizing their own to tell different stories.
The thing about me and horror/thriller/suspense books is that I am not sure how I am supposed to feel. Afraid? Creeped out? If I could figure out how the author probably wants me to react I can know better if it failed or was success.This story just made me think, "huh, weird" and that's it. I kind of want to be freaked out. Afraid, etc.Is that possible from a book?

The Breathing Method is an unsettling, downright weird story.
I liked the story within a story format.
It felt like a Twilight Zone episode, where you're left wondering what the hell just happened.
It feels like a story that will stay with me for a while.
It was definitely not the strongest story in this collection, and well behind Rita Heyworth and the Shawshank Redemption and The Body, but I still really enjoyed it.Also, I found it interesting, and fitting, that this story was dedicated to Peter Straub.
While reading this story, the "club" kept calling to mind The Chowder Society in Straub's Ghost Story.
What makes this masculine association even more enigmatic and strange is that it isn’t.
What I mean is it isn’t a club in the traditional sense.
It is simply an address where men go and be men; and tell stories.
The concept of writing about something that isn’t is pure King.
This bodes well for this novella sized story as it fits perfectly into anyone’s busy schedule.
The Breathing method is the fourth short story originally published under the collective title of Different Seasons.
If you read this story alone or together with its three other seasonal brothers you are sure to enjoy it.
So many things going on here, the men's club that's not a club, the unwed mother, the Doctor, the protagonist and his job....wow. Can't go into more without spoilers, great story. I love SK's Afterwards where he shares and explains, I wish more authors would do this. He's a very genuine guy and I think it's one of the reasons he has so many fans. The story is told so skillfully, so slick you hardly notice that he’s scaring you to death.
Classic King! He managed to weave in a plethora of details that just made the story more interesting instead of distracting or "filling." The best thing about this short story was that while it seemed to center on a stodgy old gentlemen's club (and never really resovled the vague mystery of that), it was actually about an eerie story told by one of the club members. Great stuff!
Out of all the stories in Different Seasons Shawshank Redemption was probably my overall favorite, followed by Apt Pupil, but The Breathing Method stuck with me the most. Day's after I read it I couldn't stop thinking about it! So chilling!
Classic Stephen King, even better listening to it on Audible, getting the full sense of his chilly tales. Also don't read if you are pregnant or thinking about getting pregnant. Glad LO is 8 months and I didn't find this gem sooner ...
I actually really enjoyed this. I have to read this one more time just so I can take some notes for school and I'm interested to see if I missed some possible foreshadowing.
This blew my mind, a must read story ..
It may be one of his most shocking, yet touching and well written novellas. I recommend it dearly to all of his fans.
much horror, very frightening
The Breathing Method is the last novella in a series of 4 that make up the compendium that is Different Seasons.
Without going into spoilers, The Breathing Method is the title of a short story delivered by a gentleman who makes up a part of what you could somewhat call a club.
The Breathing Method itself - is simply a story about a very determined pre-World War 2 mother to be, was amazing, chilling and creepy.
In the short space of time as this story unravels you can't help but be drawn in and start connecting with the mother and the doctor whom she gets to build a friendship with.
Creepy, poignant, inviting, intoxicating. It draws you in slowly and grabs ahold of you until the thrilling finish. A great finish to a fine collection of novellas.
Audiobook - An ok story
Mijn ene favoriete auteur King brengt ode aan mijn andere favorite auteur Poe. Hiermee kan ik niet anders dan blij zijn!
Fantastic short story
J'ai adoré vraiment cette histoire, je pense que cette nouvelle a été la meilleure du livre Different Seasons.
Interesting. Without a doubt would read in front of a fireplace on a chilly night.
•Rose Madder: An abused woman tries to start a new life, but her husband has a different idea.Some Story Collections •Night Shift •Different Seasons •Skeleton Crew •Four Past Midnight •Nightmares and Dreamscapes •The Green Mile •Screenplays •Creepshow •Cat's Eye •Silver Bullet •Maximum Overdrive •Pet Sematary •Golden Years •Sleepwalkers •The Stand •It--------------------------------------------------------------------------------The plotThe Breathing Method is about a strange club in New York where men tell each other stories.
At that day Dr. McCarron tells a story about a young woman who is pregnant and who visits his practice.
I think all people who like horror stories will like this book.
The story starts off slow and you don't really know where its going, but man, does it take you there! I have read so many books by many different writers but Stephen King is by far the best storyteller. A very good read indeed!
My mother said she read a lot of Stephen King while pregnant with me, but it was “The Breathing Method” that scared the hell out of her. At the time she was seven months pregnant, and now some thirty years later, I’ve written my fair share of horror . . . All those in utero dreams of King’s imagination.
