https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228560.Sophie_s_Choice
We are like lutes once held by God.Being away from His warm bodyfully explains our constant yearning.--HafizI started Sophie's Choice in a busy hotel lobby, awaiting my visiting sister's arrival, having no idea I was going to be immediately introduced to a 22-year-old Southerner named Stingo and the first of his many erections.His erections?
(I didn't).So, back to the busy lobby, where I'm sweating out the first of Stingo's erections and looking around the room, wondering if anyone has any idea what I'm reading (they didn't), and even though I was tickled beyond belief to find humor and sexuality in a book that I thought took place in Poland during the Holocaust, I was also totally confused.Wait, this is funny?
I just thought she was not-fascinating and contradictory, like, not in the way people are in real life.
But, Problem number 2: Styron tells this story from the first-person perspective of someone who has already gathered all the information, heard everyone's side of the story and studied World War Two. In other words, he seems to be telling the story in the wrong form.
more something to be expected of a book with an unreliable narrator, though we're supposed to put our full trust and faith in this narrator.Problem 3: It feels like Styron was trying to make a book that studied too many subjects at once.
Στην δική τους επιλογή ...Αυτοί είναι πραγματικοί άνθρωποι που ζουν ανοιχτά κάτω απο τη σκιά της λήθης και των περιορισμών τους.
Είναι αυτή η επιλογή που δεν χαρίζεται σε όλους, που σου τυχαίνει μόνο αν ανήκεις στους ιερά καταραμένους, στους αγωνιστές του αδιανόητου, στην ύπαρξη του καθαρού κακού, σε αυτούς που διδάχτηκαν το σκοτάδι, την ευθραστότητα και τη δύναμη της ανθρώπινης ψυχής.
Το σίγουρο ειναι πως αν βρεθείς μπροστά σε αυτή την επιλογή βυθίζεσαι εκούσια σε μια ερεβώδη λησμονιά και δεν ξέρεις αν χάθηκες μέσα στον ίδιο σου τον εαυτό ή αν πέρασες στην αγκαλιά του θανάτου.
Based very loosely on his own experiences in the late 1940s in New York, Styron makes himself into a writer called Stingo who moves into a boarding house in Brooklyn, where he meets a Polish emigré named Sophie and her dangerously unpredictable lover, Nathan.
With great delicacy and restraint, Styron traces the evolution of the friendship and love that entangles these three and which has stunning consequences.For those who have only seen the 1985 movie starring Meryl Streep (and for which she deservedly won the Best Actress Oscar), do yourself a favor and read the book.
For those who have NOT seen the film, you will assume that "Sophie's Choice" has to do with Nathan and Stingo.
“Because I could not stop for Death,He kindly stopped for me;The carriage held but just ourselvesAnd Immortality.” Emily DickinsonStyron brings the Brooklyn of the forties and its flourishing intellectualism back to life through the eyes of three characters, whose irreconcilable pasts find a common ground in the sweeping vision of optimistic America, distancing the narrative from stereotyped clichés and with the inimitable diction of a true Southern voice.A lush, descriptive prose soaked in an acerbic humorous tone with tinges of dark eroticism that partially conceals the profoundest of grief interweaves the ongoing contradictions of a Southerner’s life in the North and the collision between the remains of corrosive Puritanism and the rise of a newborn liberal society with intermittent and not always trustworthy flashbacks of mutilated lives and immeasurable suffering inflicted with perverse arbitrary during the Holocaust.Sophie, a Polish Catholic seeking refuge in the plentiful land of opportunities after being released from Auschwitz, is plagued by guilt and self-condemnation for the “unheroic” choice of sticking to the leftovers of her life rather than risking it by being politically involved for the sake of human justice.
Sophie's Choice: William Styron's Novel of Choices, Hobson's and OtherwiseThis novel was chosen by members of On the Southern Literary Trail as a group read for September, 2014.  Sophie's Choice, First Ed., First Prtg., William Styron, Random House, New York, New York, 1979   The gate to Auschwitz, where those in charge choose who lives and who dies Life is but a series of choices, is it not? Some easy, quickly made, given no further thought. Others are more difficult. We worry about the outcome
But Sophie's Choice by William Styron deals with choices made principally by his title character in a setting where the choices are given under duress, which are choices not freely made, or choices which have no satisfactory outcome, the classic Hobson's choice.
Nathan has chosen upon meeting Sophie who is still suffering from the after effects of her internment in Auschwitz to bring her back to health and save her life.
Nathan will come to praise Stingo's writing giving him the confidence to complete what will become his first novel, Styron's Lie Down in Darkness.
He was wrong about that.Stingo was determined to save Sophie from Nathan.
I was surprised by this book; it wasn't what I expected.
I'm also surprised at the sexual content.
And to think- it didn't even come wrapped in black plastic....I feel like it would be bordering on sacrilegious for me to not like this book, due to the subject but the fact is- I wasn't in love with it.
I imagine it would have been difficult to try and capture all of Stingo's inner struggles on film so I'm curious to see if Sophie and her struggles in an anti-semitic Poland take more of the center stage.http://bibliofilesbookrating.blogspot...
I stuck with it out of curiosity, not so much to find out what her choice was, but because this is supposedly an important American novel and I kept waiting for the "Aha!" moment when it would finally get good.
The narration was clumsy and over-explanatory.
Do you really have to recap an event that you just narrated 50 pages anterior?
Most of the good stuff revolved around the Auschwitz narrative and the observations it afforded Styron to make about human nature and the nature of hellish war.
There were some good analogies, particularly the rats-in-a-barrel (Jews) vs.
rats-in-a-burning-building (all other victims).
So if you have neither seen the movie nor read this book, please do not click this: (view spoiler)[ Sophie had to choose who between her son and daughter should go to the concentration camp and who should die by gassing.
This was Styron's way of showing the quirkiness of her character at the start then he totally transformed her afterwards by showing what she has to endure in living with Nathan and in the end, revealing what she had to go through in order to come in the US and fleeing her war-torn country, Poland.The theme is racism in all fronts: blunt vs subtle, past vs present, external vs.
Like Styron, Stingo works at McGraw-Hill.
Stingo is working on a novel that bears more than a passing resemblance to Styron’s Lie Down in Darkness.
Early on, for instance, Stingo takes a fair amount of time to describe to us the publishing job – reading manuscripts and writing summaries – that he is shortly to lose.
Styron does make any effort to partition of the all-time deadly-serious Auschwitz scenes from the Stingo-is-sexually-frustrated scenes.
It lingered on into the next book I started, which felt pallid and lifeless after the lapel-grasping of Sophie’s Choice.
It is the kind of book that I want to read again for the first time.
Confessional monologues to serve as counter narratives. Flashbacks from an American boarding house to Auschwitz. An intriguing love triangle. Secrets and lies unfolding with each new chapter. Sex, written with meticulousness. This is how Styron gets you to stick with this intricately woven and stylistically stupendous novel. For synchronous with the stunning effect she made on my eyes as she stood there arrested in the doorway--blinking at the gloom, her flaxen hair drenched in the evening gold-
The trauma experienced by a Polish woman at Auschwitz, the ideological dilemmas a Southerner-turned-New Yorker and writer must confront, the double life an intellectual Northerner must live, are all compiled to highlight the psychological feat of this novel.
With each turn of the page, something new develops, some story unwinds, some secret is revealed.
Yes, here, tremendous effort was put forth to write an ambitious novel.
One of those books everyone else loved and I loathed. I thought the book was pointless and overwrought, rather like Meryl Streep's acting in the film of the same name.
The second knock is that he writes clear and exciting prose with a lot of fancy words, leading Martin Amis to call him a "thesaurus of florid commonplaces.""In my career as a writer," says Stingo, Sophie's Choice's narrator, "I have always been attracted to morbid themes - suicide, rape, murder, military life, marriage, slavery." (I love that marriage is just slipped in there.) Stingo is about to write a novel about Nat Turner, so it's not a stretch to call him a stand-in for Styron.
A Study in the Faithlessness of Hope OK, first of all, let's get something over with. A young amatuer (not so Southern) writer comes to Brooklyn, meets a Polish émigré, falls straight away in love with her. But this Holocaust victim, tattooed on her hand, in her heart and soul, Auschwitz's purgatory, is hopelessly in an undetachable love, lust, anguish, masochistic, and redeeming relationship with a Northern Jew. And this prejudiced yet genius of a charmer, suffers from fatal capricious fits. H
Because of hope, that someday everything will be alright knowing in her heart that that's not possible, rendering herself ever on the verge of ending her perdurable life, which seemed so irrelevant, precarious, merciless.“I have learned to cry again and I think perhaps that means I am a human being again.
As Styron rightly puts it “For did not Auschwitz effectively block the flow of that titanic love, like some fatal embolism in the bloodstream of mankind”?One of the things I particularly liked about this book is the first person narrative of the amatuer 22 year old Stingo, because perhaps the facts that he hadn't seen much of this brute world, had carried the guilt of his ancestral slavery, had found first real friends in Sophie and Nathan, altogether gave an indispensable fresh voice to this tragic tale.
"Sophie's Choice," first of all, was a recollection told mostly through the perspective of Stingo, an aspiring writer who befriends Sohpie and her abusive Jewish boyfriend, Nathan, in 1947 Brooklyn, NY, where they all live in the same apartment complex.
However, it was also painfully obvious that Stingo was indeed William Styron, so the perspective was at times overly self-indulgent and out of place.
The other problem I have with this narrative is characterization, especially the characters of both Sophie and Nathan.
First, I liked everything about this book: Stingo, Nathan, & Sophie.And the way everything that went down in Auschwitz is narrated here is very heartbreaking, just as is the relationship between Nathan and Sophie.
But again comes Styron's response; At Auschwitz, where was man?This is a book that provides a heartfelt account of one of histories darkest era, as well as what such happening do to people, even after so many years.
Such Damage, I think, at times, if not most, or always, may as well be permanent.
By the time I learned the "true" story and the big reveal I just didn't care anymore. It is horrible that this is based on millions of true stories but this particular story could have been more succinct.
I've read it twice, maybe three times. I hope to read it again someday.
At times, I hated this book: the elaborate, excessive prose style, the occasional and hideous homophobia (not excusable by it's placement in the consciousness of the character, in my opinion), the adolescent attitude toward women and sex (again, not excusable) and yet, despite all these moments of frustration, this is an immense and beautiful and even great novel.
The writing about the holocaust is riveting, horrifying and heartbreaking (I felt like vomitting from horror once or twice, felt my stomach clenching many times).
All it's flaws (and there are many) merely add to the complexity of the characters, the style, the subject.
I didn't like this book but it was beautifully written--Styron is no slouch with words--and the characters and situation were vividly drawn.
A writer once said (I think it was Vonnegut) give your readers at least one character to root for.
I couldn't root for any of the three main characters.
Nathan was mentally ill, Stingo was insufferably self-absorbed.
Even poor Sophie, (who was a brilliantly-realized character) was so without fight or self-respect by the time we meet her, that Stingo's banal lust for her bordered on necrophilia.
Styron was suffering from manic-depression at the time he wrote it.
Well, I finished it.
And I despised every moment of it, from the writing to the characters.
Maybe I just don't understand or appreciate a writing style such as Styron's, but I just found it incredibly tedious and tiresome to wade through all of Stingo's incessant (and lust-fueled) rambling.
I hated him and in turn ended up absolutely hating Sophie and Nathan.
When you reach the climatic point in the novel and you don't feel even the slightest twinge of anything other than, thank god this means it is almost over, then you know that you should just call it a day and admit failure.
Sophie's Choice.
Alright I am very late to the party in reading this classic.Sophie’s Choice is quite simply a masterpiece and Styron’s command of prose here is unsurpassed. There are quite literally hundreds of lines that were perfectly rendered. I have added Sophie’s Choice to my six star fiction bookshelf, an homage to the great books.
Cugetarea mea anterioară -aflată într-o strânsă legatură cu procesul de cunoaştere aposteriorică- m-a făcut ca acum, când subiectul cărţii nu mai este atât de bine conturat, însă caracterul personajelor rămâne imacular, să văd în Nathan Landau un prototip uman demn de toată mila şi iubirea...Americanu' ar spune cu siguranță "WOW!!" și romanu' autentic " 'ai să-mi bag p**a ce bună a fost!" În fapt, cartea asta m-a ținut captivat și am lăsat-o din mână doar pentru că trebuia să iau aferentele pauze de masă și țigară (deși uneori fumam răsfoind paginile).
Knygos herojė lenkaitė Sofi autoriaus vaizduojama palūžusi ir depresyvi, išgyvenusi koncentracijos stovyklos Aušvice siaubą, radusi keistą prieglobstį Amerikoje - šizofreniko žydo Natano glėbyje.
Iš pradžių erzino šis autoriaus sumanymas, bet vėliau jis atrodo toks ir turėjęs būti, puikiai tinkantis aprašyti žmogaus išsivadavimo iš savęs paties, iš savo purvinų paslapčių procesą.Pasakotojas Stingas - jaunas amerikietis, pradedantis rašytojas, kurį dusina aistra dailiajai Sofi.
Autoriaus mintis originali, nieko neprikiši.Trečias meilės trikampio veikėjas - Natanas, skaudžiai reaguojantis į žydų tautą ištikusią negandą.
Tad kas verčia Sofi kankintis destruktyviame Natano glėbyje: meilė ar kaltė?
Stingo's journey as an individual and a writer, Sophie's troubled past, and Sophie and Nathan's tumultuous relationship all come together in a convoluted, intensely passionate triangle that will break readers' hearts.This was my first time reading Styron.
Sophie's Choice reads like an addictive drama, sucking people in and slowly latching onto their hearts - and at the end, all heck breaks loose.
The book could have been more concise and effective if someone had eliminated some of Stingo's sexual thoughts and explorations.However, I would recommend Sophie's Choice to everybody because of how beautifully and powerfully Styron tackled themes like oppression, mental illness, abusive relationships, etc.
There is the story of Sophie, a beautiful Polish woman deeply scarred by her past and the incredibly heart-wrenching choice she was forced to make while a prisoner at Auschwitz during the holocaust.
And there's an aspiring author named Stingo in the middle of it all, revealing to us each of these stories through his eyes and ears, all the while trying REALLY hard to get laid.
I understood its purpose, but it just felt slightly odd to me in a book about the holocaust somehow.
If you haven't, I won't say, as it is not revealed until the end of the book.
There I was, traipsing, skipping, meandering, flying, all the while, reading words into song, and these were from the Masters, these Mozart's and Beethoven's and Liszt's of STORY, they being ones I thought Immortal, crafting words into song that began with premise, then hit that high note, thus fulfilling their promise of a story sung to it's ultimate completion.
Note: This is me making reflections as I am now, at fifty, looking back at the me I was then, at twenty: To me, these sung words of story were not only akin to but actually WERE *better* than opera—Uris, Mailer, Heller, Roth, Oates, Irving, Hemingway—I could go on, naming, forever and a day.William Styron was a part of this group.
The narrator, Stingo, says "I was aware of the large hollowness I carried within me.
It was true that I had traveled great distances for one so young, but my spirit had remained land-locked, unacquainted with love and all but a stranger to death." He calls his journey to Brooklyn a "voyage of discovery" but I am verifiable proof that the discovery is not just his but ours.
What is love?
I think it is answered here.
All answered.
And answered to the music of words.
I can never listen to "Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring" without thinking of Sophie.
And of Stingo.
First, I ran the race and finished! This author doesn't mind taking his time. The plot is adventurous to say the least. The story is the account of.....drum roll....wait for it......the happenings in NYC, the South and a German Concentration camp. So, maybe I should give Styron a break on the length of the book. Why did it take me a long time to read? This book emotionally drained me and I literally could not read big chunks out of this without feeling my family would suffer from my depressed manner.
And all that aside, I was really loving it...to begin with.I watched the film when I was very young and I, along with the rest of the world population, pleaded with the television, "Leave him!
I was particularly struck by the way it was subtly paralleled against an earlier scene where Stingo pines for an unknown woman outside his window.
But the way Stingo/Styron was carrying on, I started to wonder what he was getting at.
