https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1552623.Further_Adventures_of_Lad
This book shares a few more stories about our beloved hero Lad. If you loved the first book detailing his adventures then you must read this edition. (See my review of 'Lad: A Dog')Devlin
I loved this book so much, if you chance to read this book please overlook some of the misspelled words and remember that this book was written many years ago. I am into these books for the love of the dogs. I've never wanted a collie dog as much as I do now. I'm sure I could never find one as wonderful as Lad was.
But I found Lad hidden on the shelves of the book store.
I think I read every dog book on the market (fiction and non) at that time, but Lad was always my favorite.When I was in my early teens, we were the proud owners of one of these dogs, and though I can look back and see that much of these books were fictionalized (an idea that horrified me as a kid!), I think I can say Mr. Terhune absolutely caught the essence of such a noble breed.
A book I hope my own dog-loving child will deign to read ;)
This was one of my very favorite books as a kid. I loved Terhune's collies and Lad was my favorite. Though he wrote these short stories with an adult audience in mind, they strike a cord with animal-crazy young people. I liked this one the best because it contains both "the coming of Lad," and also the last chapter, where Lad's big heart finally gives out. I collect Terhune books and was thrilled when I finally got this one--and enjoyed re-reading it.
One of my dad's childhood favorites which he handed down to me when I was just about 8. For several years, I was sure I wanted a pet collie, despite the presence of several animals including 2 other large (non-collie)dogs, various cats, birds, a hamster, & a lizard. Not sure how I got through this book; the 1920's-era language was archaic even in the early 1970's, but I loved it, and still have the same copy from my dad's shelf.
More human than dog!As a young child of seven years, the first book I borrowed from the school library was "Lad a Dog." From the day I finished the book, I have loved animals, but always had a special place in my heart for dogs. Today, as I finished reading "The further adventures of Lad, I am a retired veterinarian, and still in love with animals, especially so with dogs.
This was always my favorite of the Terhune books because it had the stories which told of both the arrival of Lad and his death, years later.
remembering how much I loved these books (although I found myself skimming through the occasional, dated sermon on how to treat dogs)
