https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106092.The_Art_of_Dramatic_Writing
I was introduced to this book by Paul Schrader (TAXI DRIVER) when I tried, unsuccessfully, to enroll in a screenwriting course he was teaching one quarter at UCLA Film School.
"First, if you want to write, you shouldn't be majoring in film.
Second, in my experience, the people who make it as screenwriters aren't the ones who want to make it.
Third, if you want to be a screenwriter, go buy THE ART OF DRAMATIC WRITING by Lajos Egri.
It must have had some positive effect, because looking back years later, I realized I was the only one in my class who became a working screenwriter.
(In a delicious twist, Egri illustrates this point by asking you to imagine what would have happened if Hamlet, the brooding Dane, had fallen in love with Juliet.
Fill your plot with conflict that exposes the characters' nature, so that in the end the reader will understand your premise and your characters.Naturally, I'm leaving a lot out that is worth reading.
The first half of the book, on premise and character, is directly applicable to all forms of dramatic writing (novel, short story, theater, television, film, even comic book), and it doesn't matter that this book was originally entitled "How to Write a Play" and as such, takes its examples from theater.
But sometimes it is good to be reminded of the simple principles that make book or a play interesting.
Good writing may be complex in that it can be read again and again providing newer levels of meaning with each reading.
A great book can weave it's complexity around a simple premise.
Sometimes it is good to remember the few literary formulas that never cease to work as long as we remember, when reading or writing, that these are but the skeleton to which we will give our flesh and blood and sometimes, if we are blessed enough, our soul,
Out of necessity, teachers of writing split the art of fiction writing into about five elements: character, plot, voice, setting, and theme (a.k.a. premise, in Egri's vocabulary).
For example, say you realize that you're a natural at writing in first person.
You've just discovered the unified nature of fiction.Lajos Egri has a solution.
He divides the story-building process into three parts: (1) premise (a.k.a. theme), (2) character, (3) conflict.
Third, pick the very best conflicts to throw at that character, to allow him to naturally enact the theme.
I want to retract what I wrote before.
I found the style (overly wordy and written in a contrived informal tone, as if the author is ushering you to some holy grail) confused more than it clarified and made the ideas hard to stomach.
So I’d say, read the first few paragraphs of each chapter to understand the concept Egri’s trying to illustrate, skim his explanations of plays that exemplify those concepts, then read the chapter’s conclusion to pull together any loose ends.
The ideas are worth understanding, but not always presented in a fluid manner.
One of the 2 or 3 best books i've ever read on writing, and i've read quite a few. Story by Robert McKee is very solid and a must read for film makers, but this book combined with Dara Marks inside story should be read, studied and read again. Everything you want to know about plot and character come together in this brilliant How-to masterpiece.

Egri's approach is that of a naturalist and Socratic philosopher.
The strongest and most exciting notion within this work is Egri's insistence on premise as the essential component for playwriting.
My fledgling experience as a serious writer seems to prove this insistence.
When I know what I am attempting to argue at a philosophical level I am more able to focus the action of the story and the characters towards that reality.
Egri provides compelling reasons for premise and then deepens this knowledge with a concern for character where the realization of character is the plot's essence.
For some reason, I thought this would help with writing poetry.
(Then again, I look at my cat and hope that will help with writing poetry.)However, for a gutsy stance on how plays work, this is the place.
It was (honestly) news to me that a play needs a "premise" and that you could boil Ibsen's Ghosts down to "The sins of the fathers are visited upon the children."Do poems need premises, too?
Perhaps much less dramatic premises?
Something like, "It is fun to say the letter 's' a lot." Books with "rules" for art are always exciting -- because you want to prove them wrong but are thrilled to think them possibly true.
Tremendous resource for character development and orchestration, scene and conflict.
Lots of good information for writers here, some of it obviously geared to beginners but very helpful to experienced writers, as well.
I just reread this book after many years. Its perhaps the best book on dramatic writing I have ever read. It puts all the structural approaches like Sid Field, McKee et al to shame frankly.
There is some really great advice in this book for writers but the author comes off a little too pretentious at times.
A book that may be good for the beginners, but since the author assumes that all of the readers are newbies, the more advanced writers may find it to be boring and shallow.
Nearly useless as far as I'm concerned.
He's just way too strident and insistent; far too frantic for his appraisal (an appraisal by the way, of what is a very difficult subject) to be taken as the foremost one in his field.
which he feels proves his point 'irrevocably'.
For instance, to drive home a very trite homily about 'the part being sacrificed to the whole' he trots out an utterly preposterous and incredible parable about ' !@#$%^&*uste Rodin chopping off a part of one of his statues'.
The parable itself, takes up a whole page and may not even be true.
Especially in the further development of his concepts towards a better use for contemporary literature will be a challenge for future faculties of creative writing.Für Charakterentwicklung, Figurenbildung und Erkennung von Stilfehlern ungemein nützlicher HelferEgri hat mit seinen Werken „Dramatisches Schreiben“ und „Literarisches Schreiben“ zwei profunde und Detail für Detail den Schaffungsprozess veranschaulichende Ratgeber geschaffen, die auf verständliche Weise beschreiben, wie man scheitert oder brilliert.
Bei deren Fehlen kann auch kein noch so gewitzter Plot oder mitreißende Konflikte über die Defizite in den leeren Hülsen, die durch diese Ereignisse führen, hinweg täuschen.Die Ratschläge Egris sind weniger unumstößliche Regeln, sondern eher praktische Beispiele, wie man es richtig machen kann, aber nicht muss.
Even your creative writing needs a thesis, something you are trying to prove.
One needs a premise that conveys character, conflict, and resolution.
This premise indicts a ruthlessly ambitious character whose attempt to gain something (conflict) destroys himself (resolution)...
think Macbeth.I also learned about tridimensional characters, unity of opposites, points of attack, and the waves that conflict should come in.
Another one of Egri's points was that "art is not the mirror of life, but the essence of life." So we ought to condense our writing down to that essence.
I can't wait to try out his framework!
One of the books often cited in other works on writing fiction, and after reading it I can see why.
This is a great exploration of the structuring of successful stories.
It focuses on playwriting, but almost everything the author says applies equally well to writing novels, short stories, or screenplays.Essentially, Egri explores the psychology of both characters and audience and how they interact.
He devotes quite a few very short chapters to specific and detailed aspects of storytelling, and every piece of guidance he offers comes with reasons and examples good and bad.
I'll be using this as a reference; I'm glad some other authors of how-to-write books recommended it in their own works.
Fantastic book on writing. Not as slick and accessible as McKee, yet that only adds to the author's high degree of integrity. His points are still sharp and very well argumented - the best for me was how he kills of the distinction between "character-driven" and "plot-driven". All good plots come from good characters, i.e. one does not make sense without the other - and his analysis of different plays is extremely convincing.Some passages were too repetitive or slightly overemphasizing the point, but still this book is one of the best on writing - ever.
Good, solid advice, but hard for me to get through. I didn't like having to plow through examples of bad writing to get to the examples of good writing. It did help to have many of his points illustrated through several famous plays, such as Hedda Gabler and Macbeth. I started this with a 4-star rating, but given that it took me over six months to force myself to finish it, I had to downgrade it for not keeping my interest.
الكتاب جميل ، وللكاتب وجهة نظر مُعتبرة لخصها باقتدار المترجم دريني خشبة في أول 31 صفحة من الكتاب . وألخص المُلَّخَص فأقول أنَّ ملخص اللون الأدبي سواء كان (قصة أو أقصوصة أو مسرحية أو قصة قصيرة ) يكون في 1- فكرة أساسية "مقدمة منطقية" بمثابة القدر للشخصيات ، والفعل 2- الشخصية الروائية ، وهي من تصنع العقدة ،وتحلها بطريقة منطقية عن طريق نموها 3- الصراع ، وهو الفعل الروائي ويكون ساكنا أو واثبا ، أو مرهصا على ذروة ، او صاعدا،والكاتب يُفضل الأخيرين .
I cannot speak highly enough about this book!Ergi has valid - perhaps in some instances even unique - arguments and observations about playwriting and holds the whole artform up to very high standards. He calls theme "premise" and is very straightforward about his belief that charcaters must drive conflict, but the result is a solid demystification of dramtic writing.However, he is a bit aloof throughout the book, which, personally, I found strangely appealing.
When I read this book, I found that some advices were a bit outdated. That is why it is not enough to just read this book, if someone wants to learn dramatic writing.Still, I recommend this book to anyone who wants to create round and unforgettable characters.
As a writer, I learned a lot from this book. The author's insistence on character over plot (because character drives the plot) and his emphasis on starting with a premise are two principles that will save my writing. This is a must for writers of plays, screenplays, novels and short stories.
This book breaks down what makes dramatic writing great. You can write badly all you want for your own benefit, but if you want to create characters and stories with depth, read this book.
Quick and easy to read and the best single general handbook for creating stories I've found. There are other good ones out there but few of them are so concise / useful.
seed of drama = conflict[ this was the textbook at both ucla & sc when spielberg, copolla, lucas, etc. were at film school ]
He's strongest when analyzing plays, and uses A Doll's House, Ghosts, and Tartuffe throughout, and offers very concise and thoughtful analysis of character, dialogue, and proving the solidity of the premise, which is his main point to writing: you need a premise.Boy, does he really pound that in.
I think there are better books on telling you how to write a play, but what Egri does is offer a meditation on playwriting, and how it relates to YOUR understanding of life, because if you're going to create characters, you need to know something of reality.
I had seen this book referenced and quoted in a variety of contemporary books on writing, and even though many of the references and his language is clearly dated (the original text was published in 1942), I loved his clear examination of the necessity of writers to not only know, but understand and interpret the motives of their fictional characters.
Everything within itself contains its own opposite,” I felt that his thesis, which is that character, not plot, is the most important element of a drama, is well-supported in this book-length answer to Aristotle’s Poetics.
He told me that a lot of books focused on writing for fiction do a good job of describing how to build characters and stories, but not drama.Upon finishing this book, I see what he meant, though I wasn't impressed with the book as a whole.
The hypothetical questioner of these sections has an odd personality, in that they ask very specific questions but then accept Egri's explanations rather easily.Still, this book does indeed do a great job of laying out how to build drama in a story, play or otherwise.
