https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35270.Harpo_Speaks_
Zeppo barely registers at all.)I have watched all five films in which The Four Marx Brothers starred (The Cocoanuts, Animal Crackers, Monkey Business, Horse Feathers, and Duck Soup) and the eight films in which The Three Marx Brothers starred (A Night at the Opera, A Day at the Races, Room Service, At the Circus, Go West, The Big Store, A Night in Casablanca, and Love Happy).
He admits as much in Harpo Speaks!; he tells the reading audience that they've seen the true man behind Harpo if they've seen his harp playing performances.) In the MGM films, there is a relatively straightforward plot involving a villain pitted against the romantic leads; the Marx Brothers are then enlisted to help foil the plot of the villain.
This book is NOT about Harpo the movie star.
Harpo, the grade school dropout, takes readers through an unsuspected world of a humanity few if any fiction writers could ever produce.
Harpo's journey through failure, poverty, success, the Depression and a trip through Nazi Germany to visit Russia is described with a sort of self-deprecation but a lot of chutzpah.
You can see the New York street kid in Harpo clearly throughout the entire book.
Harpo Speaks is a book written by a guy who claims to be illiterate.
It's his book, his story, and fortunately for readers, his sense of humor.
In fact, I think I loaned out my current copy to a friend.
Time to buy another copy, my third.
This time I'll get one for me and one for loaning.
The stories in this book are often difficult, as his tour to Russia in WWII speaks volumes, but they are also uplifting, as in the household rules his family made for each other.
All his kids were adopted, and their favorite bedtime story was about how their parents, Harpo and Susan, found each child as their family grew.Most beautiful were the friendships he made, and the incredible people he was around.
One of the most thoroughly enjoyable books I have ever read. Neck and neck with Styron's Darkness Visible in terms of favorite memoirs.
It made him an easy mark for conmen early in his life, but overall it made him a very happy person.
In fact, the only person who Harpo seemed to have anything less than the deepest admiration and respect for was a certain man who happened to share his real first name, a charismatically sinister Austrian who went by the last name of Hitler.
Harpo went through Germany in the early days of Hitler's reign, and saw firsthand what it meant to be a person of Jewish descent in Hitler's Germany, and this made him both sad and angry.Overall, though, Harpo seems like the kind of guy I would enjoy hanging out with.
Groucho was my favorite Marx brother when I was a kid, but as I got older I discovered what a sweetheart Harpo was and what a prick Groucho could be. This is still one of my favorite film biographies, and my hardcover edition is a prized possession. When you're done with the book, find a recording of Jonathan Richman singing "When Harpo Played his Harp" (equally affecting in English or Spanish).

I read this first when I was eighteen, and could get to L.A. Public, downtown.
Then I reread it during my Hollywood years, before the Hollywood library burned down.It's very g-rated--unlike the Marx brothers' lives--but somehow that rings true for Harpo.
I suspect Woolcott had a crush on him.Anyway, the part that harrowed me as a young reader was not the rough and ready life on vaudeville, but when Harpo went to Germany, and was aghast to see people staring at him through windows, yellow stars pinned to their clothes.This was in the thirties.
I read a lot of biography and autobiography.
I love it dearly--two of my favorite genres.
I can honestly say of all the film bios and autbios I have read , this is the best.
I love Harpo Marx--my dear friend Lee hipped me to the Marx Bros.
many years ago and I of course loved Groucho's wit and Chico and Harpo's antics but when I saw Harpo play the harp, it was a whole new thing.
No matter the situation, Harpo finds the humor.
The absolute most entertaining and happy making autobiography I have ever read.
This probably will be, the best book I well read this year or maybe in many years to come.
It sure beats any book I have read in a long time.
Until, his mother grabs him one day out of one of these crazy jobs, and puts him on the stage with his two brothers.
And then continues on with more crazy and at times, hilarious stories about vaudeville, Broadway and The Algonquin Round Table in the 1920's.
This was still one of the best books I have read for a very long time.
He is, in many ways, as endearingly childlike and mischievious in his writing as his on-screen persona, but in many ways he is also alarmingly eloquent.He provides insight as well as laughs, real history (as he remembers it) as well as zany anecdotes worthy of a Marx Brother.
Through his writing you really come to know the brothers (as well as anyone can, really) as a family bred to perform, who will do anything for a laugh, and who aren't afraid to do and say the things that ordinary people would never dream of doing or saying, but secretly wish they could.Harpo has a sincerity to him that shines through his writing as I believe it did in his acting.
An utter delight. One of the most charming, enjoyable autobiographies I've ever read, made more so by being about pretty much everything *except* for the Marx Brothers' film career. Filled with self-deprecating humour, and running the gamut from early grinding poverty through the long, hard years on the vaudeville circuit, to the freedom of movement and education afforded him by success, Harpo gives us a wonderfully human insight into the life outside of fame, and his personal journey from a place of constant deprivation to a sense of peace and happiness. Engaging, personable, and charming. Just wonderful.
my bible. we should all learn from the joy and wisdom of this book. a complete pleasure from start to finish. beware of unavoidable giggling and grinning.
This is a fun and funny book, although I would have been happier with it if an editor had left long descriptions of card games on the cutting room floor. I was also surprised at how little was devoted to the Marx brothers movies, which were often barely mentioned.
I first read this book in my first year at college ( Fall 1977-78). Loved it then. Spent many years wondering if I'd ever come across it again. So I broke down and bought it paperback from Amazon. I really took my time enjoying every page. A true classic. One of the very best books I've ever read. Honk-honk !
My favourite book of all time !! Loved loved loved it
I became interested in Harpo Marx when I ran across this quote (attributed to him by George Burns): "I’d like to adopt as many children as I have windows in my house.
So when I leave for work, I want a kid in every window, waving goodbye."Someone like that, I told myself, would be worth knowing.
* Parental preview suggested** as much as I feel like people should be accepted, I think Harpo presents a lovely picture about how it doesn't matter what you do or how you behave.
And one of the knuckle head students asked him something in regard to the Gookie and even tried to imitate it when Groucho was confused and nonplussed by the question.
Now I see that this was the result of the confusion of a 80 year old man thrown off his stride and that Gookie was a real part of Harp's vocabulary.
I do remember a rambling story about taking some young girl out on a date and how at the end he could tell she was a real blonde.
My point being is that Groucho was the real show and kept our attention fully.
Harpo, the silent clown of the Marx Brothers movies, finally gets to tell his own story after years of witnessing the antics of some of the most famous people of his time.
He led a colorful life influenced by his four famous brothers and the people he associated himself with.
The years spent with him during the 1920s were wild, but Harpo managed to extend the fun through the rest of his life.Very little of this book is spent scrutinizing the films the Marx Brothers made.
Even though its a rather thick novel, I am so sad to say goodbye to Harpo, but can't wait to read it again and again.
Since he was a comic entertainer, and (from what the book reveals) a sought after storyteller, I suspect a lot of the words a genuinely his.
Especially since there is a lot of comedic elements within the stories.
However, I also recognize the craft of the book, the seamless flow of stories that Barber certainly had to have his hand in.
I think what I loved most about this book was Harpo's unique perspectives and philosphies, closely followed by the managerie of interesting and complex "characters" he befriends.
Harpo led a truly fascinating life, and wrote about it with humor, poignancy, and a great deal of whimsy.
The beginning reads a bit like a real-life A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, the story of the courtship of the woman who became Harpo's wife is utterly charming, and the adventures with his family and friends are as hilarious as the better Marx Brothers movies.
I bought my own copy of this shortly after getting it out of the library, and I've already re-read some of my favorite bits.
He told the story of how he became famous, after starting out life very, very poor and then after age 40, settling down to marry and have children.
It was just fun to read about his life.If you like reading about the rich and famous, you'll love this book.
Harpo name-drops quite a bit about a whole lot of famous people.
Most of the people were movie stars, but not all.In another sense, it was also a bit of a history book, since he lived through much of the 20th century.
Anyone interested in the challenging life of a poor child growing up in New York city with unusual though loving parents, living in a Jewish neighborhood surrounded other ethnic neighborhoods, and as a tiny child, dodging the neighboring Irish bullies on the streets as well as in school (he dropped out in the second grade as a result).
He and his brothers were pushed into show business by their mother (who had aspirations of her own) The stories of their efforts on the road and in vaudeville were highly entertaining--interesting to learn why he didn't speak on stage and in film, how he came to play the harp, and be a clown.
As a long-time Marx Bros.
Loved this book for many reasons: his unpretentious style, how he developed his talent, the inside scoop on NYC and Hollywood shenanigans, and the fact that he was generous and kind--he and his wife adopted four children.
He was part of the Algonquin Round Table and spent time with many stars, writers and artists, including legendary NYC drama critic, Alexander Woolcott.
If you're a Marx Bros.
fan or enjoy stories about vintage showbiz--the golden age, I highly recommend this book.
This was a long book that I didn't want to end.

I do get the Marx Brothers, and I do get the humor, and I do (mostly) get Harpo, even though he's my third favorite (yes, Chico, you actually come in second), but why do so many people love this book ?
Is it because they just want to hear Harpo 'say' something ?
Because most of what he has to say here is pretty tedious, I'm sorry to say.
I completely understand that everyone found him to be the most delightful and lovely man, but I longed for more on how he felt about his movies, or about his brothers or about the development of his style.
This is one of my all time favorite books.
I scrimped and saved and bought the hardback in the late 70s, when I was about 13.
I was obsessed with the Marx Brothers.
I found the book in a used bookshop in Santa Barbara....it cost me $25!
A lot to a preteen back then.
It was my bible.
Honestly.
Anything to do with Harpo and his friends ...
I haven't read it in years, but remember it so fondly.
I'll have to re-read it one of these days.
I hate to spoil my young memories, though.
5 stars from my young self.
A great insight into both Harpo and his family. Their on-screen (and on-stage) nuttiness was just a replay of their real life.I love that he avoids ripping anyone apart. If he has something really bad to say about someone, he doesn't name them by name. A great mixture of anecdotes, and insight into the people who influenced his life. It helps you realize the true genius of both Hapro and his brothers, without any bluster.A book that caused me to learn, reflect, and laugh - a wonderful mixture.
I really loved this book. As a long time fan, this book offered a fascinating glimpse into the life of the silent Marx brother. From being literally thrown out of school in the second grade to being a part of the Algonquin Roundtable, Harpo experienced many interesting things and met many interesting people. This biography is a touching look at Harpo's life. I recommend it for fans and those who are new to the Marx brothers.
The mute Marx brother speaks in this autobiography! He had such an fascinating life and was such a loved and loveable person. What I took from this was to enjoy life and take myself a little less seriously. I also loved how he was a really good friend. His actions have taught me how to be a better friend. I find myself asking, "What would Harpo do?" Harpo would call, or take time to chat or do something silly and fun.
