https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/211726.The_Training_and_Work_of_an_Initiate
Okay look first off: it is a bummer when you get through 118 pages of an occult book only to learn that all queer and intersex people are universally banned from initiation into magical practices, except of course for "phallic rites and black magic, where such things have a use." Fuck you very much, Dion Fortune!
I will say that as these books go, there was a pretty close tracking between Fortune talking about say, the Lords of Atlantis and how their Manu Narada was responsible for the organization of human spirit into the conscious mind, me thinking "Wait a minute, Dion Fortune, Atlantis, really, what the heck," and Fortune writing that of course it'd be stupid to actually believe any of this made-up sounding stuff about Atlantis so don't worry about it too much.
There are pearls of Wisdon here, but not all of Fortune's ideas resonated with me.
The unnecessary dichotomy of mystic and occultist, the admonition against blending Eastern and Western traditions followed by the practice of doing so in the work itself, the racial, gender, and sexuality based discrimination as well as the distinction between the efficacy of ritual as practiced by someone who has been injured accidentally as opposed to one with a similar congenital issue - these kinds of things were problematic for me.
I am, however, used to looking for that which is useful in the midst of the chaff, and there is useful material here.
Highly recommend Dion Fortune's books. Have enjoyed every one.
Utterly fantastic. I continue to fall further in love with Ms Dion Fortune. This is a must for all occultists are those interested in any form of spiritualism - reread and pass along!
Another classic of occultism from Dion Fortune. A must read for all occultists.
This said, Fortune had some unfortunate (a generous euphemism) beliefs about the English "race" that appear from time-to-time in her work - not necessarily that the English are superior, but that they are different from other "races." She also, in an unsurprising fashion given her time period, had some unfortunate things to say about gay and Lesbian seekers of the Mysteries, which I believe are false and even think she probably wouldn't have believed if she lived today.
But if you don't mind separating the wheat from the chaff, I think this book is profoundly useful for spiritual aspirants on occult paths.
Although some of what she write is very relevant to the training of an initiate, I felt that the author just likes to ramble on using extensive complicated descriptions. It is a small book and I feel it could have been smaller.
Didn't get much from this.
