https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20663754-the-fur-person
This was a nice, pleasant read about a cat (Fur Person) who is looking for a Housekeeper or two to share his life with. Any cat lover will fall in love with Tom Jones right away, and the pen and watercolor illustrations in the book are charming. I'd enjoy reading more books about animals this year, either fiction or nonfiction, and preferably on the short (100-200pp) side, if anyone has any suggestions. And yes, this author definitely knows cats! 😻
Maybe it was the housekeepers who wanted it to be real more than the cat was conscious about his dignity.
Just in case I should ever be that person, not that I have been.) I think that Sarton worried a lot about wanting to please other people too.
Never mind he feels the conflicting of Gentleman Cat rules with going on living with yourself anyway.
I wonder if I could ask this gentleman cat if his dignity was for his own sake if it was so important what the rest of the world thought.
There are a lot of commandments for a gentleman cat.
I’m a huge fan of May Sarton’s journals – in which various cats play supporting roles – so for a while I’d been hoping to come across a copy of this little novelty book from 1957, a childish fable about a tomcat who transforms from a malnourished Cat-About-Town to a spoiled Gentleman Cat. In a preface to the 1978 edition Sarton reveals that Tom Jones was, indeed, a real cat, a stray she and her partner Judy Matlack adopted when they lived in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Wonderful coincidence: when they were on sabbatical in the early 1950s, they sublet the place to the Nabokovs, who looked after Tom while they were away!I found this a bit lightweight overall, and the whole idea of a ‘fur person’ is a little strange – don’t we love cats precisely because they’re not people?

She knows cats. ;-)I read this when I was on a May Sarton kick. This was one of the few that was a relief from the emotional pain that’s present in so many of her books. It’s truly delightful and I especially recommend it to those who have known at least one cat well, but even cat neophytes or those who are ignorant about cats can appreciate it.
Like many of the books I've recently reviewed, I picked this book at The Book Thing based off the fact it looked and sounded silly rather than any real understanding of what it contained.The title, the cover, and even the little blurb on the front and back of this book really don't do it much justice.Rather than being something questionable, this book turned out to be a rather charming romp through the life of a cat.
I appreciate the fact that this book encourages people to view things from their pet's perspective rather than treating them like a plush toy.
It is a small book, but much like a cat, small things can have big messages.It is the story of one cat's journey from kittenhood to realization that he is a Fur Person.
And a Fur Person is a cat who has come to love one or, in very exceptional cases, two human beings and who has decided to stay with them as long as he lives.
It is a mutual exchange."This is a sweet story, a quick read, and a tribute to cats and humans who love them.
A charming first-purrson account of a tomcat's search for the good life, and his adventures and misadventures along the way, this thinly-veiled account of her own cat's life story comes from a writer who evidently has observed the behavior and sensibilities of cats with a careful and sympathetic eye.
Sarton can turn phrases exquisitely, and her high regard for catly dignity shines through even her most humorous passages.
Sentimental but not cloying, this story belongs on the insomniac bookshelf - like a soft shirt or hot cocoa it exudes comfort and tranquillity, and is likely to leave the reader purring comfortably while reaching to turn off the bedside light.
The first sentence: When he was about two years old, and had been a Cat About Town for some time, glorious in conquests, but rather too thin for comfort, the Fur Person decided that it was time he settled down.Favorite quote: It is a known fact that if one sits long enough in front of a door, doing the proper yoga exercise, the door will open.This was such a heart warming story.
Although it is the true story of how Fur Person aka Tom Jones came to live with the author and her partner it is told from the cat's perspective.
Such fun.
Side note: as a child, I remember noticing that the home Tom finds (spoiler!) is with two ladies, one Brusque Voice and one Gentle Voice.
(Or maybe I only thought that in retrospect--it's hard to know.) Anyway, it turns out that author May Sarton was a lesbian, bless her heart--and that Brusque Voice and Gentle Voice are thinly-veiled versions of herself and her partner Judy, respectively.
Presumably their cat Alexander (on whom Tom Jones is based) had a pretty wonderful life.Another side note: the preface to this edition mentions that when Sarton and her partner went abroad, they sublet their apartment and cat to a young Russian writer and his wife.

A rather charming account of a stray cat's quest to find a 'housekeeper'. Dated language and stereotyping (ie the use of the term 'old maid') are entirely congruent with the date of publication :) Very subtle allusion to author's own lesbian status - she was brave enough, in that era, to 'come out'.
Read this book in about an hour. Really cute story. The author did a great job of writing how cats think and process the world around them.
Recommend for all crazy cat ladies like myself.
I picked up this book at a library sale on a whim, because I love cats and I knew just a smidge about May Sarton, but what I heard is that she was an East Coast analogue to Elsa Gidlow--a woman who lived a long openly gay life across the 20th century and whom younger woman gathered around for feminist and lesbian inspiration in the 1970s and 1980s.
Sarton's explanations for why Tom Jones behaves in the ways he does are adorable and often really insightful.
I'm not sure that Holiday's life story would mirror Tom Jones's exactly, but it's fun to think about.
"For a Fur Person is a cat whom human beings love in the right way, allowing him to keep his dignity, his reserve and his freedom.
And a Fur Person is a cat who has come to love one or, in very exceptional cases, two human beings and who has decided to stay with them as long as he lives.
the Eleventh Commandment must go something like this: A Gentleman Cat becomes a Fur Person, when he is truly loved by a human being.It was not exactly a commandment, he realized, but it would have to do, for he was suddenly very sleepy."This book was just delightful.
A Gentleman Cat has an immaculate shirt front and paws at all times.II.
A Gentleman Cat allows no constraint of his person, even loving constraint.III.
A Gentleman Cat does not mew except in extremity.
When addressed, a Gentleman Cat does not move a muscle.
He looks as if he hadn't heard.V. When frightened, a Gentleman Cat looks bored.VI.
A Gentleman Cat takes no interest in other people's affairs, unless he is directly concerned.VII.
A Gentleman Cat approaches food slowly, however hungry he may be, and decides at least three feet away whether it is Good, Fair, Passable or Unworthy.
This is labeled children's literature, but it is really for all cat lovers!
The Fur Person is the story about a stray cat in Boston who decides he needs to find a housekeeper to make his life better.
He eventually finds the author of this wonderful book.
May Sarton writes the story of the Fur Person's life as a cat-about-town and later how he assimilates himself into Sarton's household.
Of course, this is all from the cat's point of view.
Sarton has cat behavior down to a T.
After reading this book, I'm so tempted to adopted a fur person...
I like a lot of things about this book:1.
Narrated by a cat who makes up songs and poems and gives himself capitalized names like Cat About Town.
2. He decides to take housekeepers, so he moves in with two old maids named Brusque Voice and Gentle Voice.
Every day he sits in the window to get the news by watching all the neighborhood animals pass by.
4. He really likes proving that he's the toughest cat in the neighborhood until the housekeepers take him to get fixed and then he declares himself a Cat for Peace and makes a song about it.
I liked this book! Told in the perspective of a cat, this tale describes the life of a free-wheeling Cat About Town who becomes a Gentleman Cat and pursues the quieter life with "housekeepers". After being adopted by 2 ladies, he gets a real name of Tom Jones. In this book, he shares his songs as well as the many commandments of cat behavior. This was very well written with an occasional illustration. A highly amusing and entertaining tale.
Wonderful book for cat lovers. I was able to read the book in one sitting so if you're looking for something deep, this isn't it. If you're looking for something fun to read, that will make you smile and laugh, this is the book for you. The book is written from a cats point of view. If you live with cats, you would definitely appreciate this book. It put me in a wonderful mood after reading it :-).
May be a good book for cat lovers and pre-teen kids. A detailed description of cat's live, thoughts and feelings, reminds me of Thompson Seton books. Amazing illustrations. It is really touching that an author writes such a detailed story about her own cat. But it still seemed bit boring to me, as if something was missing, as if it was not a real book but a writing exercise.
How I love this book by poet May Sarton about her Gentleman Cat, Tom Jones (because Tom Jones was also a foundling!) and his Ten Commandments, especially 3: "A Gentleman Cat does not mew except in extremity. He makes his wishes known and waits." I plan to buy several copies and send them to friends for birthdays.
Originally written in 1957 and only 100 pages, this is taken from the true adventures of the author's cat, written from the cat's point of view. Delightful read with many cat behaviors explained by the cat himself.
A very cute read for anyone who likes cats.
In the middle of this book, two cats have a spontaneous rap battle. Worth the read for that alone.(Note: Goodreads page count is wrong on the paperback.)
May Sarton has her cat, Tom Jones, tell us the story of his life.
Beginning life as "Alexander's fur-piece," he goes out on his own and becomes known as "The Gentleman Cat." After a couple of years, he decides it's time to settle down and find a home of his own.
I love animal stories, and this one was exceptional.
I was sorry to reach the last page, and I doubt if I've felt that way this year about anything else I've read.
I think it would be an especially good choice for reading aloud to children, grandchildren, and even other adults.
I very much enjoyed this sweet, quaint tale about Tom Jones, who goes from being a runaway stray kitten to a fat, spoiled housecat.
Admittedly, I have been on quite a cat book reading kick lately, but this was the first one I read that was told from the perspective of the cat, rather than by a human who is observing a cat.
It positively tickled me - one of those books that isn't full of action and wonder, doesn't contain thought-provoking philosophy or intriguing trivia and information, but is very simply a pleasure to read.
Recommended as a great Sunday afternoon read!
What a delight when I read this years ago. Have recommended it to my cat-loving, reader friends for years, and the hubby and I are now reading it aloud to one another. Perfectly rendered feline protagonist with sweet, soft, and sometimes stinky qualities; witty and intelligent, laugh-out-loud little book. If you've ever considered what goes on in the mind of your cat, Ms. Sarton has certainly captured some purr-fect (sorry, had to) and pragmatic examples. Will call this one a lifetime favorite!
Cat owners will love thisWhat fun it is to be inside the mind of a cat who thinks he's a person. That's what reading this short delightful book is like. If you have never owned a cat you might not get it. If you have been graced by the presence of a dignified, independent yet loving cat, you will smile at this cute story.
