https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/419389.Celebrated_Cases_of_Judge_Dee
the third mystery a pretty teenage bride, 19, on her wedding night succumbs, obviously by poison, her ghastly face indicates this, Miss Lee from a prominent family as is the groom, Hua Wen-djun , the distraught new husband is devastated, suspicions falls on Hoo Dso-bin a Candidate of Literature, and classmate of the grieving widower, he had acted very inappropriately at the nuptial banquet...still the magistrate is not so sure, playing the fool is that the sane way for a murderer to behave....

Pat of my Summer 2018 Easy Reading Vibe – As a first Ive decided this year to aim for shorter or “light” reading to get me through the months where historically my reading has tailed off.A book i’d managed to track down & purchase a while ago & a perfect excuse to kick off my summer reading with a short teccie story or three (there are 3 stories according to the notes)......
You’ll get very little historical detail here or dialogue & the stories are wrapped up quite neatly.
In an informative preface van Gulik tells us that the Chinese have a thousand year old tradition of detective stories which differs in significant ways from the one developed in the modern Occident, including such conventions as the announcement of the guilty early in the text and a detailed accounting of the condemned criminal's punishment - often even their subsequent punishment in Hell is related to satisfy the reader's sense of justice (and possibly other desires).
Though the book was written a thousand years later, van Gulik informs us that the Chinese justice system had not changed, indeed, did not change until the early 20th century.
One aspect of books and reading that I don’t often consider is the extent to which storytelling is a cultural form, often arising out of long-standing tradition.
Interestingly, although the author is clearly extremely literate and familiar with Chinese law, he remains anonymous due to the cultural consideration of the detective novel being a ‘frivolous’ form of literature.***********************************************Since Goodreads hasn't clarified whether users should abide by the 2010 Terms of Service listed on site, or by Kara and Emily's comments in the Feedback Group threads, I'm keeping full copies of my reviews at:http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2013/1...ANDat Booklikes http://carols.booklikes.com/post/7394...
At the heart of this book is a story that involves a lot of bondage, torture, beating, sexual passion, near-nudity and paranormal phenomena.Yes, as with so many things, the Chinese did paranormal BDSM centuries before the current craze sweeping America.But, ironically, in this book the paranormal element is somewhat muted, which is the main reason Robert van Gulik thought it might be presentable in translation to Western readers.I try to learn something practical from every book I read.
The thing I learnt from this one is that it's very hard to translate the Chinese word "neiyi" (undergarment), because it's very unspecific even in Chinese.When the suspect is stripped of all her clothes and left in only an "undergarment", which happens on at least two separate occasions, I really want to know more.
Not only that, but, as translator Robert Hans Van Gulik tells us in his introduction, "short stories about mysterious crimes and their solution have existed in China for over a thousand years, and master-detectives have been celebrated in the tales of the public story teller and in theatrical plays for many centuries.
Van Gulik, a sinologist who lived much of his life in China, translated this work in the 1940s, then went on to write his own fictional versions of Judge Dee mysteries, to the tune of fifteen or so books.
Проследяваме разследването на убийство на търговец на коприна и машинациите на коварна вдовица.
Има свръх естествени сили, явяващи се призраци и голяма доза магия при разрешаването на заплетените загадки.
Съдията Ди прибягва до нетрадиционни похвати за събиране на информация и водене на разследване преструвайки се на лечител.
Той не се подвежда по лъжливи показания, проявявайки задълбочен поглед, отвъд очевидните твърдения.
А йерархията в китайското общество стриктно се спазва, давайки почва за развитие на корупция и нечисти похвати за домогване до пари и положение.
Има клевети и подкупи, а хората са подвластни на всички чисто човешки черти и пороци.
The purpose of this particular translation was to introduce the Chinese detective novel genre to a Western audience.
This particular book was picked by the translator and publisher because the plot is more Western than most.
The judge eventually solves the crime with a combination of intelligence, keen insight, and moxie.At the end of the book, there is an excellent essay detailing the distinctive characteristics of Chinese detective stories: casual use of torture by authorities, supernatural elements/superstition, role archetypes for those assigned to assist the judge, intellectual chess matches between the judge and the criminals, and most striking: a presentation of a story from a Confucian world view.This book was very good, interesting, and entertaining.
Tento bezvýznamný si nadává do tupé psí hlavy, že tak dlouho ignoroval otce i matku svého života neskonale moudrého soudce Ti. Ještě než sinolog Gulik rozjel svou vlastní řadu o soudci Ti, tak přeložil autentický dobový čínský detektivní román z 18.
Doplnil ho zajímavými informacemi o historii čínské detektivky, o rozdílech a specifikách oproti těm západním, popsal čínský právní systém a neopomněl ani úskalí překladu a změny, které se oproti originálu rozhodl udělat a i proč je udělal.
Nejzajímavější ovšem je, že ač se neřeší pychologie postav, které pouze plní své role, tak jak moc je to moderní a nikoli nepodobné mnohem mladším Holmesovým případům.
Set in the era of seventh-century A.D. and written in the eighteenth-century A.D., the book of Chinese detective stories is translated in modern times.
Robert Van Gulik's lucid translation from Chinese feels contemporary and his changes to the original text are likewise clearly reasoned.
Three murders come before him and his lieutenants (some of whom are reformed shady characters and one of them is his lifelong servant).
The three cases involve a mysteriously dead bride on her wedding night, a double murder and some stolen raw silk, and a buried corpse whose death might not have been accidental.
The book exemplifies the genre of Chinese detective fiction.
Long before Jessica Fletcher opened up the Cabots Cove branch of the Pinkertons, the Chinese developed the detective novel to a high degree.
Back in WWII Robert van Gulik took a break from his war duties and translated a Chinese detective novel.
It was the Dee Goong An, a fictionalized account of crimefighting by a historical jurist of 8th century China.Other than a predilection for tea, Judge Dee doesn’t have too much in common with Miss Marple.
He is a District Magistrate, a post that combined detailed local oversight with high rank in T’ang China.
http://fireandsword.com/Reviews/judge...
Enjoyable as a mystery novel, but mostly interesting to me for all the knowledge it provides on daily life, society, government, and law in Tang China.
The torture parts were a bit hard to take (but again the matter-of-factly way that they were described made me shiver; to me that's good writing) and I wouldn't want to live in a Chinese province in 7th century with a bad judge for sure.Unlike Mr. van Gulik, I liked the supernatural items in the story because they were so seamlessly put within the fabric of the setting.
They were unintentionally hilarious parts too; for example getting leniency for being "extremely stupid" :) I'm not sure I would want that (well it still beats sitting on scorching metal chains...)
Харесвате ли Китайски загадки, ще ви допадне - ако не, не мога да гарантирам.
Тук, както и в други книги от поредицата които съм чел, финалът не е сватба, плод на невероятна дедукция, да хвърлим престъпника в затвора, той сам да се прецака или да се завоалира мъгляво с измъкването му, че да видим продължение.
В Китайските загадки на съдията Ди:1.
Намират се неопровержими доказателства за вината на престъпника.2.
Конфискуват му цялото имущество и част от него е за близките на жертвата, част за държавата и покриване на съдебните разноски, а съдията получава повишение или поне похвала от по-висока инстанция.Одобряюс!
The torture-them-until-they-confess spirit of the detection is not saying Christmas to me. Maybe at Easter.
La clásica historia china de un detective a los Holmes, con tramas sobrenaturales y mucha cultura de ellos.
I first started reading the Judge Dee mysteries by Robert van Gulik (1910-1967) back in the 1990s.
There are three mysteries for Judge Dee to handle - a double murder involving traveling merchants, the death by poison of a bride on her wedding night, and the mysterious death of a man.
However, he is cautious enough to Judge Dee is assisted in his work by Hoong Liang, sergeant over the constables, and his lieutenants: Ma Joong and Chiao Tai, best friends, and Tao Gan, cynical and sharp-tongued.
The third case involves another mysterious death, that of the young bride Lee-goo.
He later went on to write 15 other books still with Judge Dee but with a more traditional Western format of keeping the murderer secret untill the end.
These books are a pure pleasure to read and offer a fantastic look into ancient China.
I have had professors asign Judge Dee mysteries in various classes because they are very accurate and offer a fantastically detailed look into ancient China.
Here is a list of all the Judge Dee books and short stories in the order of Dee’s life:o	The Chinese Gold Murders o	The Lacquer Screen.
You can tell right away the passion van Gulik has for this work and it's particularities, and this passion led him to write a series based on this book using Judge Dee as the main character.The book takes us on a fascinating journey, in which we follow Judge Dee as he investigates and tries 3 different murders.
I have to say that my interest was piqued and that after reading this anonymous work translated by van Gulik, I have decided to go look for the Judge Dee series the translator worked on, and which starts with The Chinese Maze Murders: A Judge Dee Mystery.
Glücklicherweise ist Richter Di mit einem scharfen Verstand, viel Durchhaltewillen und einigen kompetenten Helfern ausgerüstet; dazu scheint die Geisterwelt durchaus für ihn zu sein und ihn zu unterstützen.Natürlich ist dieser Roman aus dem 18.Jh. nicht mit modernen Kriminalromanen vergleichbar, und auf die Unterschiede geht der Übersetzer van Gulik in seinem Vorwort sehr erhellend ein.
Eine Neuauflage sollte das aber in das inzwischen Standard gewordene Pinyin übertragen.Nach dieser erfreulichen Lektüre bin ich nun sehr gespannt auf die Romane, die van Gulik nach dieser Übersetzung geschrieben hat, und die auch Richter Di als Hauptperson haben.

2.5* This book was a cultural experience as much as a detective story.
The Judge has prophetic dreams that give him clues, he uses torture to get confessions out of criminals, and unlike our Western detective novels, the story does not end until all the gory details of the execution are told.
I didn't find much "detecting" going on - not so much of a puzzle as I'm used to - however, I'm not sure that this particular book is indicative of the rest of the series.
I read an excerpt from another of his books and found it quite engaging, and so will try again before I pass judgement.
I read all of the Judge Dee novels a long time ago.
Just reread this one, and still liked it.
These are translations of 19th century Chinese detective novels,about a 7th century magistrate who actually existed.
The long section of 'translator's notes' are the most interesting part of the book - all about what Chinese detective novels are, how diffent they are from typical western mysteries, and how each is a reflection of the culture from which they come.
Be warned that there is some description of torture and execution techniques used by the tribunals - universal in this genre, and brief, but distasteful.
Judge Dee is one my favorite characters in detective literature. The neat thing is, he is also a real person: a Tang Dynasty magistrate who was famous for solving real murders (and other crimes.)Note: Though I am listing this one book just now, I have read the entire series. As delicious as a plate of superior Chinese food.
Supremely satisfying. Martial arts. Horrific tortures as a legal means of gathering evidence. Impersonating underworld deities. The interweaving cases are great, though we don't learn much about Judge Dee himself except that he has both ninjas and doddering old men in his employ.
I came upon this book by chance and bought it on a whim. The approach to solving crimes reminded me somewhat of that employed in ancient Rome.It was an enjoyable read; quite a contrast to modern crime fiction or murder mystery.
The first part of the series is nowhere near as good as the rest. Might be that this is rather a translation than an original story. It differs from the rest of the series in how it treats supernatural phenomena or that torture is treated as justifiable means of obtaining confession.
The Chinese have a long tradition of detective novels, Van Gulik was one of the first translators of Judge Dee, both this one and the ones he created are great reads. Some libraries file these under Gulik, check both names.
Really didn't expect to like this one at all. It's so far from what I normally enjoy, but it was actually a pretty fun read. Way, way more gruesome torture than one would expect lol.
