https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5404.Here_I_Stand
All because he felt that men should not ape their betters nor expect to improve their station in life but accept whatever lowly status they may be born into and serve their betters cheerfully.
Naturally this book is not required reading for Protestants in Sunday school.In 1521 Henry VIII published a book about Luther, referring to him as a “a venomous serpent, a pernicious plague, infernal wolf, an infectious soul, a detestable trumpeter of pride, calumnies and schism.” The Church was mightly pleased.
I think the hated Luther was where he got his ideas of reform from though.The good men do lives after them.
As a young Catholic monk, I and several other students were sent off to Adelaide University.I chose English and History.And the first unit of History was the Reformation.When I came to read about Martin Luther, (I can recall the book, the library, the sunlight AND the dawning that I totally agreed with him), my own Reformation had already begun but now I found I had allies I never expected.
He was anti semitic, but everyone was, and he sided with the Nobility against the Peasant Revolt.But even today the "lower" classes are scorned.I just had D.H.Lawrence preaching it in his "Kangaroo." Idiot.Times haven't changed much.But Luther DID change things.And THIS is a Great and Wonderful read by Roland Bainton.
I appreciate Bainton's effort to be honest about Luther's strengths and weaknesses.
The weaknesses only help us see better the greatness of the God Luther served instead of glorifying the man.
On the other hand stands Luthers prodigious life work which among other things includes a translation of the Scripture in German, over 2,000 hymns, catechism and books for liturgy and prayer along with the regular preaching and teaching which at one point included preaching around 197 messages in 145 days.
Reading this can't help but to encourage our appreciation for doctrine and the truth of Scripture.
16th-century German theologian Martin Luther, instigator of the Protestant Reformation, is a pivotal figure in Christian church history, in subsequent German history and culture, and in the history of the modern world as a whole.
Bainton was also an accomplished scholar (Titus Street Professor of Ecclesiastical History at Yale, an endowed chair also held by another church historian whose work made even more impression on me, Kenneth Scott Latourette), and literate in German.This is a fairly thick book, with 386 pages of text; but it's narrative popular history for interested and intelligent lay readers, rather than very dry and pedantic academic history, and doesn't presuppose any specialized knowledge or vocabulary.
I experienced Bainton's book via the Audible route, as I am wont to do these days for a lot of non-fiction, and though the minutiae of a good deal of ML's idiosyncratic takes on religion became, at times, more whelming than I had the ears for, still, I have to say that his basic premises made sense, and despite what was probably a pretty annoying way of going about things (no doubt necessarily, given that the Popes were distracted by selling all those indulgences), the guy stuck to his guns, made his points, and jump started a Reformation.
I think the scholarship is excellent on Martin Luther’s war on the excesses of the Catholic Church, the need for reformation, and the ‘who, why, where, and why’ of Martin Luther’s life, but the author seems to go out of his way to interpret, selectively omit, or ignore some of the more troubling aspects of Martin Luther’s worldview and philosophy and treatment of others in his writings, for instance, his antisemitism, which was completely glossed over and relegated to a sentence or two.
This missing fifth star is an indictment of me, not of Bainton or Luther.
As for the rest, I love Luther and I love this recounting of his life and influence.
I wish I had better reading habits, especially that of keeping a pen handy to mark and underline, because this volume was replete with gems.
I will read this again, skipping certain chapters, if need be, to get this story deeper into my bones.
Oh, one more thing: if I do read this again, I want to find another edition.
Luther's medieval life has had major influnces on our modern world, and he is both unfairly praised and maligned frequently, especially when his statements are taken out of context. This even-handed and readable biography was quite helpful in understanding the backdrop of the reformation and the man who became the father of Protestantism.
The greatness of a book is in large part due to its writing. This book was a very well written biography of a very well lived man. Enjoyable to read, Here I Stand is an accessible and enjoyable read on someone that we, as Christians, owe much to.
This was an excellent biography to gain a familiarity with the man and his times.
Bainton seemed to try so hard to present an objective narrative that I felt he failed to speak to his reader.
Tell me why, Bainton, I should be reading about Luther.
Yes, as an historian, I should think you'd want to get out of the way and just present your material.
And when they don't disclose it, I spend my time wondering what it is.
I wanted to hear from Bainton.
I wanted to hear from Bainton.
And I felt an account of this magnitude should've moved me a bit more.
The account of Luther's emergence from within the Roman Catholic Church to become a prominent religious dissenter and champion of justification "sola fide" occupies the majority of this work.
This portion of the work almost mandates a second or third reading due to the sheer number of characters which interplay in the complicated ecclesiastical and governmental milieu of Luther's day.
The latter portion of the book contains a comparatively brief, but helpful, overview of Luther's Bible, his reform of the liturgy and music (especially congregational song!), and his often criticized (and perhaps somewhat misunderstood) anti-Semitic sentiments.
A must-read for anyone interested in Reformation history.
A very readable biography that's gives a broad view of the life & ministry of Martin Luther. It's a fun read that's fast-moving and keeps you interested until the end. I would love another biography that provides more depth regarding his teaching, battle with the Roman Church, and inward struggle amidst the Reformation.
One of the best biographies I've ever read about Martin Luther. I gave it my two thumbs up! Great perspective, good presentention and accurate data about this figure in history.
Bainton's "Here I Stand: A Life of Martin Luther" filled an important gap in my understanding of the world.
Bainton introduced me to the complex issues of religion, politics, and history needed to comprehend the daring and the significance of Luther's rebellion against the Catholic Church.
Before reading this book, I had a completely inadequate appreciation for the unfathomable bravery and conviction Luther must have had to stand alone against the enormous power of the Church.
Given Luther's enormous impact, Bainton's book deserves a read by anyone seeking to understand how the West thinks about religion, authority, and faith.
This book is more than fifty years old but still accessible and full of insight into Martin Luther’s life and times.
From about 1376, when John Wycliffe – The so-called ‘Morningstar of the Reformation’ – posited his 18 theses urging the church to renounce temporal dominion: Rigid control of doctrinal issues, as dictated by the Pope and his bishops, over the populace to the point of absurdity.
His followers continued the fight by way of the Hussite wars and by the time Martin Luther came onto the scene, more than one hundred years later, up to 90% of the Czech populace were already de facto Protestants.
Though the first Lutheran biography I've read, I'm a little surprised at how highly this work is praised.
Many other biographies that I've read are styled and narrated better.
The biography is generally balanced considering its only a 400 page book.
Luther was a complex man, mostly balanced but not without contradiction.
At the end of the book the reader is treated to brief sections on Luther's preaching, his hymns, his prayers and his depression.At times, I found Bainton's writing style a bit bland.
Luther is nothing less than the Father of the Reformation.
This is a good book of a great man.
It is a really good overview of Luther's life and his encounters with the outside world, especially up till about 1525.
I think this is to be appreciated because Luther was primarily a man of religion and insights into his spiritual life are therefore important.
On the whole, though, I think that Mr. Bainton's program is to relate and preserve the good in Luther's life and legacy.Although Mr. Bainton is interested in presenting the man Luther, the book is a little thin on how the outside world such as England, the Netherlands, etc., reacted to Lutheran ideas, especially post-1530.
A brilliant treatment of Luther that doesn't settle for simple caricature, but examines the complexities of this famous man from childhood to death.What makes this biography stand out is Bainton's dependence on primary source material, as well as his consideration for *context*.
We see the anxieties of Luther, who lived for years as an exile in his own country, willing to lay down his life, and yet feeling somewhat guilty that martyrdom passed him by due to the protection of his faithful princes.
I give my highest recommendation for this biography.This is treatment of Luther for scholars and adults.
Also highly recommended.https://www.amazon.com/Torchlighters-...Martin Luther, Simonetta Carr, 2016https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
But the home took on that quality of affectionate and godly patriarchalism which Luther had sent as the pattern in his own household.
His sermons were read to the congregations, his liturgy was sung, his catechism was rehearsed by the father with the household, his Bible cheered the fainthearted and consoled the dying.
If no Englishman occupies a similar place in the religious life of his people, it is because no Englishman had anything like Luther's range.
The Bible translation in England was the work of Tyndale, the prayer book of Cranmer, the catechism of the Westminster divines.
I've not read enough about Luther to make a serious comparison with other biographies, but this seemed pretty solid: readable and scholarly and, while clearly the work of a Christian writer, the author's religion appears to have only minimally affected the text.There is a tendency to provide long - and often repetitive - extracts of primary sources, as well as to assume the most positive interpretation of Luther's ideas.
It contains many quotes from Luther and his contemporaries which help to give the book a sense of relevance.
For example, the famous quote, from which Bainton gets his title and his closing limes "Here I stand, I cannot do otherwise." Was not actually recorded at the time.
But Bainton speculates that the scribes were simply "too awestruck to record it."All this is not to say that it is not a good scholarly work, taken with a grain of salt, this is a very informative,and interesting biography of "the little monk whose inner turmoil tore the western world in half."
This is my third reading of this book.
Roland Bainton was a Lutheran historian, and this is probably the definitive biography of Luther in English.
For obvious reasons this book will hold more appeal for Protestants than Catholics; nevertheless, Bainton does not whitewash Luther's faults, particularly towards the end of his life.
It is a very good history of the Reformation; each time I read it, I learn or remember something new about that tumultuous period of time.
Bainton also explains extremely well the interplay of other historical and social forces at the time; Luther was the right man for the hour.

A great book that was not written for the quick reader. It is a book that sums up the life if the great reformer and how he set the wheels in motion to reform the church. As a Baptist preacher, I appreciate his stand against the evils and arrogance of the Roman Church during this time of corruption. May all of us when approached with the same challenge of standing for Gods Word, "Here I stand, I can do no other."
In the midst of one of Luther's moments of depression and temptation, he said, "He does not know the meaning of hope who was never subject to temptations. David must have been plagued by a very fearful devil. He could not have such profound insights if he had not experienced great assaults." From this quote, we understand the life of Luther. Luther was assaulted and plagued by the spiritual forces evil, but these are, for the most part, the very reason we still glean from his labors.
Although this is an old book it's an interesting overview - I found the illustrations (of which there are many) particularly helpful - we can gain so much insight into people's thoughts and interpretations of events from contemporary woodcuts - I'm extremely glad that this was a bought copy and not a library one - I can highlight it and mark pages.
had to read with a dictionary on hand and learn a lot of catholic terms and just general new terms. It was slow and somewhat confusing for me at parts, this book is not a really easy read, but very interesting and great at understanding Luther and his thought. A lot of interesting relations with others explained.
The man was a giant. The scope of his life is absolutely incredible.This biography is so highly praised that I came in with high expectations and was slightly let down. The writing is just okay and I bogged down at times with Bainton's geo-political rambling.
I normally do not like biographies but this was wonderful.
I quite enjoyed this classic celebratory biography of Martin Luther.
While this is not the place to find Luther's warts and sins exposed and dwelt upon, it is a readable and helpful overview of his life and thought, and Bainton understands why Luther's insights were so critically important for so many people, not only in the 1500's but also down to this day.
As an evangelical Christian in the broadly reformed world, Luther is one of those heroes who gets cited and highlighted quite a bit, and with good reason.
It was therefore helpful for me to learn just how chaotic the reformation was for him.
I will follow this up with a more modern biography by Herman Selderhuis: "Martin Luther: A Spiritual Biography."
