https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38501.Ham_on_Rye
So what is a middle-class old woman who seldom drinks and never fights doing reading this book?Enjoying the hell out of it.
I was sixteen, tan, blonde and good looking, catching waves on my yellow surfboard along with all the other surfers, handsome guys and beautiful gals, each and every day that summer.
Unlike Charles Bukowski, my father never beat me as a kid but this was one thing I did have in common with Bukowski – being a teenager with a wicked case of acne.
You can read all about his in this novel, Ham and Rye. Bukowski said, “The gods have really put a good shield over me man.
Ακόμη κι αν δεν έχεις σκεφτεί ποτε τη δική του εκδοχή, την απαράλλαχτη γνώμη του ή την κοσμοθεωρία του σε σχέση με την ύπαρξη και την εξέλιξη του ανθρώπινου είδους στα σίγουρα θα πειστείς πως ο δικός του οίστρος προς την ματαιότητα ειναι τελικά ο πραγματικός.
Λυπήθηκα τους ανθρώπους και τη μιζέρια τους αλλά δεν ένιωσα καμία απολύτως θλίψη για τον αγαπημένο μου "φίλο" μιας και μέσα από αυτήν την εξομολόγηση της δικής του ζωής όσο τραγικά, οδυνηρά, αστεία,τρυφερά και κυνικά ήταν ολα τα περιστατικά,ο ίδιος ήταν πάντα ο ελεύθερος πολιορκημένος, ο ασυμβίβαστα ενοχικός, ο κυνικός ονειροπόλος,ο σκληρός ιππότης, ο εραστής της ομορφιάς που περιτριγυρίζεται μόνο από ασχήμιες.
"....γιατί μια αλήθεια που σου τη λένε για πρώτη φορά μπορεί να ειναι πολύ αστεία.
But if you’ve been lucky enough to have struggled through childhood and adolescence and come out on the other end a little stronger, a little smarter, a little thicker skinned, then maybe, just maybe, Bukowski is for you.
I'm sure Bukowski doesn't give a shit either way, and honestly, neither do I.***I raise my glass to you, Henry.
To you and all my frieeeeennnddds!!!!!!!!!!!(Barfly joke).***Watch this scene -- when Henry walks over to Wanda, look who he passes at the bar: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E5OLVi...Wanda: I can't stand people.
What the hell kind of place is this?" "I'm sorry, sir, you needn't pay.
Yep, a real mensch of a father Henry Chinaski had.
( one of the more 'kind' things that came out of his father's mouth).
Terrific coming of age book involving family, school, other kids, teachers, struggles to survive --barely escaping poverty...Henry's anger, aloneness, rebelliousness, soooo much sadness it hurts....but also something beautiful was developing: Henry's love for literature.
I'm aware this book is loosely based on his life story...but I read it as fiction!
The humanity in this book is extraordinary!!!!!
I loved this book!!!!
It is true that Ham on Rye lacks a serious plot.
It is also true that Mr. Bukowski writes in a crude, whiskey soaked style.
As to the comments below that disparage Mr. Bukowski as a mean-spirited asshole, I ask you to consider four possibilities: 1) you misread his skid row saintliness as something distasteful; 2) you forget that Mr. Bukowski wrote a novel, not a memoir; 3) you judge his offensive comments in a vacuum instead of its time and place; or 4) you are comfortable with the mediocrity shit can of existence that he laments.
Mine, for one, could not bear its sour, unsavoury ingredients.In this bildungsroman, which is semi-autobiographical too, the protagonist, Henry Chinaski loads his bag of dilemma and expletives, and throws its weight around with nonchalance and non-disruptive disdain.
His treatment of his family, friends, school, job and life at large, wasn’t without a stream of empathy which was successfully evoked with some explosive arrangement of words.
But perhaps, he didn’t write this book to shed those rusty flakes.
Almost like a protest, like a defiance.
And under my reading lens, that defiance grappled without inspiration.
Dedicated to "all the fathers," Ham on Rye is both an indictment of and a tribute to every boss, bully, teacher, preacher, and dictator (foreign and domestic) to leave their mark on Chinaski's (Bukowski's) coming-of-age experience, charting his own way forward if only by counterexample."My father liked the slogan, 'Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise.' But it hadn't done any of that for him.
I feel like this kid is someone that I've known well, not just read a book about him.
I left mine blank, so they put me in the Sports Cards Collecting Club.
My friend Joe, whose dad was president of the Charles County fire department, didn’t leave his blank.
These cards: burning material.Joe spent that night at my house.
When my mom went upstairs Joe said I ate those eggs like they were Marilyn Monroe’s cunt.
People remember it when I hit them.After this we went into the woods behind my house to burn those cards.
But that got old, so I said, “Joe, this burning football cards is for goddamn children.” Joe just shrugged his shoulders.
No culture of fighting.
One lost fight was enough to teach me the purposelessness of all that.
Sure there was the pimply phase, but nothing like the scourge of boils that rendered Henry a monster.And yet...and yet...Something rang so true reading this book.
Somehow I got to the same godless, cynical place, where I can look back with a sense of inevitability.You know how you pick a book up, flip a few pages, read the first sentence, perhaps, or a few strands of dialogue to get a sense of whether it will be worth the effort?
But I bought it anyhow, couldn't put it down and feel that I've learned something about myself from reading about someone who isn't like me at all.
You think to yourself: "Surely this man is exaggerating here, merely going for comedic or shock effect?" What do you do?
Ham on Rye tells of the formative years (1920-45, roughly) of Bukowski's alter ego Henry Chinaski.
Writing this book surely must have been emotionally punishing for Bukowski though.
Bukowski is the quintessential lone wolf, he dealt with his pain on his own terms.
Yet for all the abject misery this is a supremely funny and vigorous book, if you know what to look for and share Bukowski's brand of humour.
You can level many accusations against Bukowski, both as a writer and as a person.
Holy shit!This is the story of Henry Chenaski, Charles Bukowski’s alter ego, who had a helluva depressing childhood in large part due to a father who was a real son of a bitch and whom I blame for Henry’s later love of the bottle, to a lesser extent due to the Depression that hit the States, and Los Angeles, when Henry grew up.
At this point he met one of the few good people to cross his path during his childhood, the nurse who treated him for the boils:  ‘She was the kindest person I’d met in eight years.’ (Henry’s mother wasn’t unkind to Henry; she just didn’t stop Henry’s father but rather joined Henry in his victimhood).
موجع هذا النص تعاطفت مع هنري (صاحبنا بوكوفسكي) وكذلك مع والدة هنري وهي تعاني من سوء تصرف والدها وبدأت أعي حجم المعاناة التي ولد وسطها هذا البوكوفسكي وسط إنـهيار والده تجاريًا في ألمانيا بعد الحرب العالمية الأولى وإستقرارهم في لوس أنجلوس وكيف أثر والده عليه بتصرفه تجاه والدته وبداية المخزون اللغوي القذر الذي سجله في سيرته الروائية في كل أعماله لمعاناة والده بسبب عدم وجود عمل يعينه.
هنا في هذا الجزء الطفولة والمراهقة والضرب بواسطة حزام البنطلون - يبدو أنه أداة الضرب الوحيدة ي ذلك الوقت- والتعرف على الكحول الطريق الذي سيوجعنا به بوكوفسكي.
عجیب نیست که آدم از شرح فلاکتهای کسی لذت ببرد؟ شاید نه. اگر این شرح را چارلز بوکوفسکی نوشته باشد. و در خوانش شرح بدبختیهای هنری چیناکسی حتا آدم خندهاش میگیرد، میخندد. البته اگر همه این اتفاقات در دنیای واقعیِ بوکوفسکی اتفاق افتاده باشند، چیزی شبیه کابوس است اما خواندن بیخیالی شخصیتی که خلق کرده، دیالوگهای بامزهاش و فضایی که در کل رمان ایجاد میکند به یک جور طنز سیاه شبیه میشود. هنری چیناسکی مرام و مسلک خودش را دارد، هیچکس جذبش نمیشود و در مقابل هیچچیزی در دنیا برایش جذاب نیست. همیشه در فکر انتقام
عجیب نیست که آدم از شرح فلاکت‌های کسی لذت ببرد؟ شاید نه.
و در خوانش شرح بدبختی‌های هنری چیناکسی حتا آدم خنده‌اش می‌گیرد، می‌خندد.
البته اگر همه این اتفاقات در دنیای واقعیِ بوکوفسکی اتفاق افتاده باشند، چیزی شبیه کابوس است اما خواندن بی‌خیالی شخصیتی که خلق کرده، دیالوگ‌های بامزه‌اش و فضایی که در کل رمان ایجاد می‌کند به یک جور طنز سیاه شبیه می‌شود.
هنری چیناسکی مرام و مسلک خودش را دارد، هیچکس جذبش نمی‌شود و در مقابل هیچ‌چیزی در دنیا برایش جذاب نیست.
همیشه در فکر انتقام گرفتن است، از دنیا، از آدم‌های پولدار، از زندگی فقیرانه‌اش ولی هیچوقت جا نمی‌زند، هیچوقت واقعا جا نمی‌زند.برای من این کتاب جز بهترین‌های بوکوفسکی است.

Men are expected to kick ass and fuck anything that moves, as long as your peers approve of those whose asses are to be kicked, or that the housing for the orifice you seek to penetrate meets their requirements.
But sex is just as important as violence and requires the same amount of masculinity to achieve.
I find it funny beyond belief that Bukowski's character Henry Chinaski (allegedly an alias for himself, and this book a fictionalized auto-biography of his own life) would point out the posteriors of men just as much as he pointed out boobs and vaginas (or, in his words, "cunts").
"Πόλεμος. Εδώ ήμουν παρθένος. Μπορείς να φανταστείς τα μυαλά σου τιναγμένα στον αέρα για χάρη της ιστορίας, πριν ακόμα γνωρίσεις τι πράγμα είναι η γυναίκα; Ή πριν αποκτήσεις ένα αυτοκίνητο; Τι έπρεπε να προστατέψω; Κάποιους άλλους. Αυτούς που δεν δίνουν δεκάρα τσακιστή για μένα. Το να πεθάνεις στον πόλεμο δεν σταματάει τους πολέμους." Ο ποιητικός κυνισμός του θείου Charles εδώ
Charles Bukowski has led me to some amazing books, but this was not one of them. It was well told, but I personally prefer fiction. The problem with non-fiction is that, whenever you get to a part you enjoy - it doesn't last long. There were incredible parts, but then the main character grew older and all of the supporting characters changed.
"بیشتر آدمها در بیستوپنج سالگی تمام میشوند. و بعد تبدیل میشوند به ملتی بیشعور که رانندگی میکند، غذا میخورد، بچهدار میشود و هرکاری را به بدترین شکلاش انجام میدهد، مانند رای دادن به کاندیدای ریاست جمهوریای که آنها را یاد خودشان میاندازد. من دلبستگی نداشتم. به هیچچیز دلبستگی نداشتم. حتی نمیدانستم چطور باید فرار کنم. بقیه دستکم حساب کار دستشان آمده بود که چطور زندگی کنند. آنها ظاهراً چیزی را فهمیده بودند که من نفهمیده بودم. شاید چیزی در من کم بود."
"بیش‌تر آدم‌ها در بیست‌وپنج سالگی تمام می‌شوند. و بعد تبدیل می‌شوند به ملتی بی‌شعور که رانندگی می‌کند، غذا می‌خورد، بچه‌دار می‌شود و هرکاری را به بدترین شکل‌اش انجام می‌دهد، مانند رای دادن به کاندیدای ریاست جمهوری‌ای که آن‌ها را یاد خودشان می‌اندازد. من دل‌بستگی نداشتم. به هیچ‌چیز دل‌بستگی نداشتم. حتی نمی‌دانستم چطور باید فرار کنم. بقیه دست‌کم حساب کار دست‌شان آمده بود که چطور زندگی کنند. آن‌ها ظاهراً چیزی را فهمیده بودند که من نفهمیده بودم. شاید چیزی در من کم بود."
A Portrait of the Bastard as a Young Man...My second Bukowski book. Just as I did the first time, I assumed this novel would be profane, profane for the sake of being profane. And yet here I am, again surprised. This is a compassionate, humane story. The obscenity exists, not because Bukowski wants to shock us, but because it's simply a part of his world. There's just so much heart here, and the storytelling is raw and masterful.
But they were fucked up in their turn by fools in old-style hats and coats, who half the time were soppy-stern and half at one another's throats.”And everything in Ham on Rye develops under this scenario…“So, that’s what they wanted: lies.
Beautiful lies.
That’s what they needed.
People were fools.
It was going to be easy for me.”So the mournful bitterness of his childhood turned Henry Chinaski – that is Charles Bukowski – into an impenitent and cynical insurgent for life.“I was like a turd that drew flies instead of like a flower that butterflies and bees desired.”Ham on Rye is a merciless and graphic story – a real death sentence to smug philistines.“At the age of twenty five most people were finished.
Drink was the only thing that kept a man from feeling forever stunned and useless.
If the wedding was mine it would be my funeral.” It’s for a time mainly fighting and drinking that give him any kind of solace: “Getting drunk was good.
Why be a window washer?” Bukowski in this book is Hunter Thompson without the political black humor, with even greater nihilism, maybe, humorous without principles, living an early life of darkness shaped by his father and getting beaten up by everyone.
Review to come, after I pick my jaw up from off the floor. Bukowski’s rude, crude alter ego, Henry Chinaski, drunkenly but oh so convincingly knocked me out with his story of growing up poor in LA during the depression, his sadistic Dad and ineffectual mom, and lots more. I didn’t know I was getting into a fight, but I will gladly step into the ring with him again.
Είναι ημιαυτοβιογραφικό (ο πρωταγωνιστής φέρει το άλλο όνομα του ίδιου του Μπουκόβσκι, Χένρι).
Το διάλεξα γιατί ο αγγλικός του τίτλος είναι λογοπαίγνιο πάνω στο όνομα του "The catcher on the rye" που το λατρεύω, ε είπα έστω σε θεματολογία θα μοιάζουν.
Είναι και αυτό coming of age, όμως παρακολουθούμε τον Χένρι απο παιδάκι μέχρι τα 20 του χρόνια.
Είναι βιβλίο τόσο ευαίσθητο και σκληρό ταυτόχρονα, πραγματικά μου προκάλεσε πολλα συναισθήματα, και ο πρωταγωνιστής είναι σαν αληθινός άνθρωπος.
Φοβόμουν λίγο τον Μπουκόβσκι γιατί είχα ακούσει πως είναι ψυχοπλακωτικός, αλλά το συγκεκριμένο με άγγιξε πάρα πολύ, και σίγουρα θα διαβασω και κάποιο από τα άλλα του βιβλία.❤
Nevertheless, Bukowski never bores, no matter how many times I read his stories.
What sets this one apart is the fact that he has a plenty to be angry about.
Bukowski's writing is always a breath of fresh air amid pretentious novels dealing with a similar subject.
What sets him apart is hard to classify.
A beauty in the simplicity, a beauty between the lines, an unconstrained beauty that runs amok in the street while avoiding getting stained by the garbage surrounding it.
Reading Bukowski makes me want to write.
Reading Bukowski is, in a way, liberating.
El autor nos lleva por los barrios más bajos para que conozcamos qué lo arrastró a su enajenación, a su conducta antisocial y al alcoholismo.
Un chico que a partir de una muy temprana edad tuvo que aprender a jugar en la vida con reglas sucias, que fue rechazado por su padre, que fue ignorado por la compasión y que trató de ser un hombre entre las sombras de una realidad agresiva e implacable.
No es para nada pesado y se lee de un tirón.
Muy recomendable.
I've read bits of Bukowski's poetry throughout the years but this is the first of his books that I have read... and it won't be the last. Hilarious, gritty, raunchy stuff. This book literally had me laughing out loud.
This is one of his best books.
Heartbreaking and hilarious, this was written at the perfect time by the man himself--if he had been younger it wouldn't have had the wisdom that it contains---this is probably Bukowski at his finest; all of the foundations for his later life and work are laid here: his father's brutality, his mother's complacency, the cruelty of his classmates and his rejection by just about everyone once his acne erupted;these experiences, tho specific to Bukowski, become universal in his hands as he invests this novel with a quiet sadness that provides many clues to his later behavior.
Bukowski is impossible to separate from his fans, at least for me: those driver-cap wearing kids you see in every undergraduate creative writing seminar who still think it's not just funny but somehow or other beneficial to society to be "edgy" and "politically incorrect," who wish they had mental illness so they could "tap into genius," and who feel that living the "real writer's life" involves being homeless and alcoholic.
They're pretty much the "manly men" of the creative writing sphere.
He's honest and direct and sometimes visceral and sometimes funny, although it's also quite annoying how he never writes about anything but himself.
It's a shame about those fans.
