https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12180581-switched
Review for this book is below the PSA. The PSA does not have anything to do with the book but a TOS policy change that Goodreads deemed not to tell their faithful users.  This book started out strongly. Despite the protagonist being a brat (the throwing hissy fits kind) I was very into the story. However, when it got to the middle and she completely forgot about the family she loved because "ooooo cute boy" and the plot seemed to focus purely on her crushing on said boy they lost me. And the ove
Review for this book is below the PSA.
The PSA does not have anything to do with the book but a TOS policy change that Goodreads deemed not to tell their faithful users.
There was some SMASH BANG excitingness at the end but then it went into mopey melodramatic girl mode again.SPOILERS BEYOND THIS POINT (BRIEF SPOILERS & MINI RANT)Seriously I can't stand when girls are like "Oh my relationships over I just want to die now." Nothing in books makes me ANGRIER.
I've never called myself a feminist but this boy-centric female protagonist that is so common in paranormals makes me feel like one.
Sooo, after finishing Switched I realized 2 things:1. I'm officially in love with Amanda Hocking2. Trolls are  hot (3. I also suspect that I am a troll due to the hair thing, but I haven't found any proof yet. I'm looking on it.)  “Did you think you could treat me like shit at a dance, then sneak into my room in the middle of the night and tell me that I'm a troll with magical powers, and I'd just be like, yeah, that sounds right.”   Wendy Everly, a girl whose mother tried to kill her when she w
Of course there is more, and she feels quite astonished when she is also told that she is a troll (although she isn't green), a royal one, the heir of the Trylle kingdom.
And she has to fight her feelings for her sexy tracker/bodyguard, Finn.It is fun.
This series is the reason why all my friends call me troll-lover, but I'm not particularly concerned because if Finn was my lover, they would be concerned.
I liked Finn, but I don't like the way the things between them are heading,even though I enjoyed the tension.
Check it out!_______________________________________I hadn't had a book infuriate me this much since A Beautiful Dark.So Wendy Everly finds out she's a changeling switched at birth, and that she's actually one of the Trylle─a.k.a. trolls.
-_-I would've probably liked her, or at least respected her more, if she would just stop letting that bitchy mother of hers to treat her like fecal matter.I didn't like the characters, the story, the romance, nothing.
But a friend of mine told me that it gets better in the sequel.
I do see some potential in this series, I guess.I'd probably still read the sequel, just to see if it really gets better.
Both times I’ve read it, I’ve gotten pulled into the story immediately, and my eyes are glued to the pages until the book is done.
The Trylle society is original and intricate, and I loved reading about the complexities of it, and how Wendy fits into all of it.Amanda Hocking has a smooth, exciting writing style.
The other characters are completely enjoyable, and I loved them, and their interactions with each other.The Princess Diaries meets Tithe in Switched, the highly imaginative, immensely enjoyable novel from Amanda Hocking, an up-and-coming talent.
I have nothing but love for Switched, and cannot wait to continue the story with Torn.
HOT DUDES?YES........That's all you need to know, my friends ;)
With an entirely unique lore, Switched is able to stand out from all the other paranormal books available.
I was fascinated by the Trylle mythology: How they lived, the monarchy, their custom of switching babies at birth.
The stressful demands of becoming a princess overnight, the boy she's falling for- it was all delightful.
I absolutely loved how the romance was played out in Switched.
She can have them all, right?While there is still good story development, I did find some parts of the book were a bit slow.
And of course, the fact that the female character Wendy Everly is a troll and a changeling, I knew I will really like this book.So, was this book a yay or nay?I must say, a little bit of both.I love it because honestly, Amanda Hocking's writing style is so flawless and very easy to read.
Do they look like human or something?My expectation for this book was also different.
Creatures that look like these:Because we're talking about trolls, right?
Hopefully her character will get better in the next books.As a whole, this book is good.
all through out this book, i could picture Wendy whining and using her little gift of persuasion *sarcastic ooooh and ahhh* to get her way.
They know each other for about TWO WEEKS, and I'm led to believe the attraction is only physical, and i quote: "my hands were trembling, and that familiar butterfly feeling Finn gave me spread throughout my body.(here comes the funny part) I was in love with him, and I wasn't going to give him up.
to be proclaiming your love for someone after TWO WEEKS and you barely even know him past his "gorgeous" face.
There are plenty of suspenseful moments in this book which is why I kept reading bu there are also things lacking.
And another hing is I would have liked to know a bit more about the trolls themselves and what I is exactly that makes them more special than humans?
I was so frustrated at times I wanted to reach into the book and shake some sense into her.
I just hope she becomes stronger in later books.I also would have liked to learn more about he vittra and why they are a violent sect of trolls and exactly what they want as this was unclear.
This book is better than the one I mentioned above but it still needs a professional hand working through it.
The dialogue is horrific at times, there are long parts where the characters are just bickering and repeating things over and over.The second part of the book was definitely better than the first.
The writing flowed better, even the dialogue got better and I almost never "furrowed my brow" like the characters so many times did.
Tove and Rhys I liked, especially Tove, an interesting character with a lot of potential.
But I also think that Hocking needs to mature as a writer, get published and acquire some new ideas.
The books have a zip-zip pace to them, and I think that's what draws a lot of people in.
Finally, a lot of this would be justifiable if the writing was more complex or had just "a bit more." But I think these books are representative of works too quickly written.
Sigh, I wanted to like these more, but I can't recommend that anyone else read them when compared to the whole slew of books on the market that are bettered edited and written with more care.
Overall, I'd give this book more like a 1.5, but I have zero desire to read the rest.
I loved her series My Blood Approves, but this book was disappointing.
Also, I'm really happy for Amanda and all of her success so I just really wanted to like this series.I'm not going to go into too much detail about the things I liked or didn't like, because there are a large amount of points already made for both, but as a simple short list the things I didn't like were: Wendy, Wendy's Mom, the dialog What I liked was: Flynn, the originality of the story and the changeling aspect.
Oh well.To those who love this series I would like to know why.
Switched (Trylle #1), Amanda HockingSwitched - the first book in the Trylle Trilogy... When Wendy Everly was six-years-old, her mother was convinced she was a monster and tried to kill her. It isn't until eleven years later that Wendy discovers her mother might have been right.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و ششم ماه ژوئن سال 2014 میلادیا. شربیانی
2 StarsOverview:  “Did you think you could treat me like shit at a dance, then sneak into my room in the middle of the night and tell me that I'm a troll with magical powers, and I'd just be like, yeah, that sounds right.” So trollsOnly not those.And not those. Instead:Wendy has spent her entire life feeling as if she does not belong. Her mother attempted to kill her when she was six-years-old, claiming she was a “monster,” and since that time, Wendy has moved from place to place with her lovin
Her mother attempted to kill her when she was six-years-old, claiming she was a “monster,” and since that time, Wendy has moved from place to place with her loving brother and aunt.
Until she moves to a new school and meets a mysterious new boy with a striking eye color (black) and a penchant for climbing in her windows at night, who dutifully informs her that she is actually a troll who was switched at birth.
But looking at it now, it’s just a string of paranormal clichésPros:Like I said, this is fairly original in some aspects.
AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. That's the only word that comes to my mind when I remember this book. I read it ONLY because it had a gorgeous cover. What a stupid book! How can anyone write such crap?
Nightmare Fuel: Nothing.Politics and Religion: Nothing.ConclusionSwitched is definitely part of the post-Twilight paranormal trend: awkward brown-haired heroine, sulky love interest with no concept of personal space, glamorous hidden society in some rural part of America….too much melodrama for a story that just started and characters we barely know, and prose that veers from fine to patchy.This paperback edition includes four bonus chapters called “The Vittra Attack.” The publisher labels this a short story but it isn’t—it has no arc of its own and is hard to follow until you finally see where it connects to the main body of the story.
⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱*Not for me anymore*⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱ This review is purely for me and might contain spoilers and facts from the book to keep myself in the known at all time. It's also very long and somewhat detailed.  Second re-read: 03.06.2018 The book centers around Wendy Luella Everly (17) who never fit in anywhere. She has grown up thinking she's evil because her mother hates her, calls her a mother and at six years old, tried to kill her. Turns out her mother was right; Wendy is a changeling. She was switch a
Förening, The Changelings, The Trylle & The Vittra:I've put these in a spoilers tag simply because it's a long list.(view spoiler)[- Förening is where the Trylle lives.- Förening is in Minnesota, along the Mississippi River in a very secluded area,.- Förening is a town, sort of.
It’s just a glorified gated community, really.- Förening is entirely Trylle, trackers, and mänsklig.
They have abilities, intelligence, and beauty that far surpass that of humans.- There are two important distinctions to their lifestyle as Trylle that separate them from the humans; they want to live a quiet life communing with the earth and themselves.
Angsty teenage girl moves to a new town, starts a new school, and is immediately attracted to the dark mysterious boy who stares at her in class and treats her poorly.
She starts to like him and low and behold he doesn't show up to school one day, but instead appears at her bedroom window.
And even though there wasn't a really obvious love triangle happening in this first book, it's pretty easy to predict that there is one developing and it will probably appear in one of the next books.The use of "Trolls" was really weak as well.
Without knowing a thing about the book other than the brief synopsis I read before I downloaded the story, and the overwhelming number of positive reviews, I figured it would be an awesome quick read.‘Switched’ is about Wendy Everly, a girl who lives with her aunt and brother in an attempt to control the chaos of her life.
Wendy experiences ’0′ change throughout the book and the story ends literally and figuratively exactly where it began.I was astonished to see how many positive reviews this book received, and I understand that Hocking is not attempting to write a literary masterpiece that is applauded by college English professors, but to me, the story was barely enjoyable.
Buddyread with Melissa(re-read for me)Melissa's review here She couldn't get into it but its all good:)-----2.5 to three starsDidn't love it as much this time around but it was a nice trip down memory lane, so to speak.Some things that didn't annoy me the first time did in this re-read and in some instances the world building had me shaking my head.Don't regret reading it again but I think I'll be giving my copies of the series away now.
I read the Trylle trilogy back to back on Nook in a period of 2 days, so it is hard to rate each book individually.
Once I read the first, I was hooked and had to keep reading.
I often wondered how much better the books would be with a strong editor, but they were definitely worth reading as is.
Glad to have them on my Nook and they will definitely end up being on re-reading list the next time my brain is fried and I need some bubblegum reading.
Finn (another character you'll love) tells Wendy she is a changling and everything goes nuts after that!
But it's creepy for a "motherly figure" in ANY book to try to kill a character which makes it creepy.So this Finn character is supposed to be her guide in the matter of her being switched and has come to "collect" Wendy and bring her back.
Finn explains that he’s a tracker, someone who goes out into the world and brings back the changlings; changlings in these books are the troll children who are switched out for other children.
(and Wendy didn't seem to be the slightest interested in using her power, neither) That makes the Trylles look like a group of self-important blue-bloods more than anything else.The pace of the story is also terrible, most of the book is taken up by the romance/tension between Wendy and Finn, and the long, detailed progress of Wendy's makeover (view spoiler)[as a princess (hide spoiler)], which makes me wonder whether I was reading The Princess Diaries instead of a story about 'a world both beautiful and frightening'.
Still, it felt like a first (or maybe second draft), and it's full of flaws.According to her website the author has roughly ten novels, mostly written in 2010 and she pounds out the first drafts 2-4 weeks!
Maybe 50-60k words and it could perhaps be classified as "engaging" but could've been "really fun read" with some real editing.There is a crazy amount of "tell," in this book.
In fact, there isn't a whole lot of "show" in the book at all.The author is a solid writer.
The author loves the words creepy and foxy.
Me trying to rate book:Scans options.
Takes out red pen.
Screams: "Why isn't there a no star option!"Tears out hair.OMG what a disaster!
Lately I have been really interested in the fey and this book even had a promising premise......which soon utterly failed.
Girls who define themselves as pretty and are self-obsessed2.
Girls who can't figure out why every man is not interested in them3.
A book that has characters sooooo annoying you wouldn't mind killing something7.
Errors so blatantly oblivious it will make you glance at that red pen on your desk when you never even dreamed of writing in a bookAnd so many more things to offer!!!
blog***Switched by Amanda HockingBook One of the Trylle trilogyPublisher: St. Martin's GriffinPublication Date: January 3, 2012Rating: 3 starsSource: Review copy sent by the publisherSummary (from Goodreads):When Wendy Everly was six-years-old, her mother was convinced she was a monster and tried to kill her.
With the help of Finn Holmes, Wendy finds herself in a world she never knew existed - and it's one she's not sure if she wants to be a part of.What I Liked:I featured Frostfire, Hocking's upcoming novel, on my blog a few weeks ago.
I think I know where Hocking is going with that particular situation...What I Did Not Like:Sometimes, Wendy bothered me a lot.
You could call it an obsession.In this paranormal tale, Wendy learns at the age of seventeen that she is a troll.
I guarantee that you have not read a series quite like this before.Plain and simple – Wendy rocks!
Wendy has more boy trolls after her than she keep track of.
Amanda Hocking has written some of the most epic battle scenes ever.
They were so real that I could FEEL them.This series about trolls surprised and entertained me.
I will definitely be looking for more Amanda Hocking books to read.RATING5 LovedCOVER COMMENTSI like how the covers are so similar and work together to tell the story.
DNF.So, I really didn't like Switched.Here's the deal: Wendy is probably one of the most annoying protagonists I've ever read about.
I really didn't like the characters (plural), and if I don't, how can I read this book?Wendy is of the following: annoying, bratty, selfish, tantrum-y, conceited, and whiny.
(enter tons of bad adjectives here.)Finn is of the following: trying-to-be-dark, trying-to-be-sexy, watches-protagonist-all-the-time, stalker, has no emotion, is a complete failure.(I don't like how authors like their guys to be alluring or sexy or emotionless bastards or whatever.
I want some BAD SEXY SARCASTIC WITTY guy.)The character I probably liked-ish was Matt.But for a self-published book?
The writing plods along at about an early high school level...and I don't mean it sounds like it was written *for* an early high-schooler--it sounds like it was written *by* one, complete with painful grammatical/style errors that will make anyone who loves the English language cringe.I actually had high hopes for these books, since I like generally to have one light-reading series in the queue at all times (Twilight, Harry Potter, Golden Compass, Hunger Games were all decent reads over the last few years).
And the beginning of the book had promise.
AMAZING!! Finally I just finished ‘Switched’ A Trylle Novel by Amanda Hocking. It made me feel exited all the way along. It mainly talks about a girl that was different than everyone else, strange and she doesn’t quite fit in! Her mother tried to murder her as she accused her of having been switched at birth. Though she is not the ‘monster’ her mom claims she is…. Can’t tell you more hhhh :p it’s one of the books that steal you attention... Couldn’t stop from reading it.
