https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1099466.The_Worst_Witch_Strikes_Again
Mildred’s life is about to get even more complicated!See, she’s the Worst Witch.
Nothing falls into place around her.
This semester, there’s a new witch in town and she falls into Mildred’s responsibility.I had more fun reading this book than the last (and first).
Enid is surprisingly sly—you never know what she’ll pull out of her sleeve next.
Though she’s not mean, not at all, just very facetious.
I have to say I really liked how the last book ended, with the villainous witches being captured.
It felt like the story suddenly got more expanded, as though there was something bigger at hand.
Cute second installment in the series. It's not so much that Mildred is the "worst" witch, but she's fairly hapless. Also, she has a nemesis. (Shakes fist at Ethel.) Honestly, though, this one was so short it made me wonder why it couldn't have been part of another book.
This is the second book in The Worst Witch series.
Although, at the end of the first book, Mildred Hubble had saved the school from disaster, she had a terrible report and is worried about the coming term.There is a new girl at school – Enid Nightshade – and Mildred is supposed to be looking after her.
At first, Enid seems quiet and placid, but all is not what it seems below the surface…Summer term ends with Sports Day – can Maud avoid the threat of being expelled this term or will there be another disaster?
3.5 stars - This was a trip back to the past for me. Loved reading the whole series when I was younger and love just the same now.
I was so worried; the poor Mildred almost got herself expelled, again! We have a new character that’s even worse than Mil herself, Enid look like an innocent who can give no trouble at all, but it’s only a cover, Maud gets jealous about Enid’s relationship with Mil, and Ethel is just a headache as usual.
Cute, but not as cute as the first one, which I love. I actually like the 2017 reincarnation of Enid Nightshade better than her book character.
More interesting then the first in this series.
And again, a wonderful story. Enid appears now at school and Mildred is to take care of her. Since all the books kinda resemble the first one in the stories. Mildred causing trouble and then solving it, or she and her friends saving the school, I went with 4 stars for all the rest. Because there's nothing like the first book.
Sometimes I think the Worst Witch series is simply fodder for female friendship fan fiction. I hope Jill Murphy does a YA version, like they did with the Saddle Club series. Pine Hollow, anyone?
I would firstly, hardly say that Mildred is the "worst" witch.
But it's not the worst it could be.
I really do still love this stories and Jill Murphy is such a good sport for writing them.
Four stars for this one as even though I super liked it, there's nothing quite like the first book, as mentioned before in previous reviews, I love stand alone books and I feel some Saga's can be dreary.This book's aimed a younger audience obviously but re-reading gave me the pleasure in reading I had first time around.
Mildeds zweites Schulhalbjahr des ersten Jahres an Miss Cackles Hexenschule beginnt nicht gut. Um zu lernen Verantwortung zu übernehmen, soll Milded sich um die neue Schülerin Enid Nightshade kümmern. Leider hat Enid es faustdick hinter den Ohren und bringt Mildred, die schon alleine von einem Fettnäpfchen ins nächste tritt, in noch mehr Schwierigkeiten als gewöhnlich.Dieser zweite Band führt den Charakter der Enid Nightshade ein und behandelt eigentlich nur den Anfang und das Ende des zweiten Schuljalbjahres. Die Geschichten sind einfach, nett und schnell zu lesen. Ein Kinderbuchklassiker mit Charme und Affe.
Because of her bad reputation of getting into trouble, Enid is assigned to Mildred because Miss Cackle thinks it will make her more responsible.
After a sports competition that Enid spells Mildred’s broom goes wrong and she almost gets expelled.
After being stuck in a broom closet they manage to get out, avoid trouble, and give Miss Cackle a unexpected birthday surprise.My Thoughts: Didn’t really know what to make of Enid.
Cause I don’t know if I wanted a friend that was quick to get me in trouble but slow to speak up and leave me hanging.
This book wasn't great either.
At the beginning of the book I felt like I was missing huge chunks of information because it didn't really make sense but as I got farther into the book it wasn't as bad.
This book jumped through things rather quickly just as the first book had which makes it hard to follow and to know exactly where in the timeline the characters are.
There really isn't much detail or anything extra in the books either and I think they would be better if they were a little longer and had more detail and if the author had filled in the time gaps with more information and action.
Despite the fact that the Netflix series is completely different, I love both equally. The characters have been established by this second book (other than Enid who was new) and yet we still get some other insights to Mildred. The story was a lot more in depth this time, though I am a little sad that there are so few books (and that finding the next 5 will be difficult) as well as sad at how fast the story/school year goes by. I would definitely recommend this for kids just starting chapter books.
It's summer term. Enid is a new student and Mildred is the one picked to help her. As usual, Mildred gets into trouble, twice on the very first day. Then there's the sports competition which Mildred normally is very bad at.However, with a little magic, she soars. Not exactly what she hoped for, though. Then there's the other troubles she gets into. Still, it all ends up lighthearted fun. Mildred isn't evil, she's just sort of clutzy and unlucky.
Mildred begins her second year at Miss Cackle's Academy for Witches and finds herself at the centre of another adventurous year in which she gains a new friend - a witch with a mischievous sense of humour... Does this spell permanent expulsion for poor Mildred Hubble? This fun advanced first reader (suitable for children aged 5 - 8) celebrates friendship while helping any reader stretch their reading comprehension skills with plenty of vocabulary building words sprinkled throughout the book.
Ah, Harry Potter lite! It's funny how similar these books are, from not-Snape (Miss Hardbroom) to not-Draco Malfoy (Ethel). This book's plot wasn't as interesting as the original's (Confict: Mildred must make it to the end of term without getting in trouble! Spoiler: she does. Yay?), but my son still enjoyed the book and wants to keep going in the series.
I loved The Worst Witch growing up and, as an adult, was very excited to learn that it was a series. This book is just as funny and heartwarming as the first one.I love Mildred's character and all of the silly situations she gets herself into. A great quick read that is sure to bring a smile to your face.
Mildred Hubble is back for another school year, this time with a new girl. Enid plays the innocent while making life and friendship extra challenging for the worst witch. Third graders might enjoy this tale of bad alliances, transfiguration, and friendship run amok. It amused me over a couple of evenings.
Lecture VO. Un second tome vraiment plaisant et le niveau d'anglais est très abordable. Les personnages sont hauts en couleur, ces petites sorcières sont pleines de ressource et Mildred est super adorable. J'ai passé un très bon moment avec cette histoire et j'ai hâte de me plonger dans le prochain tome.
Continuing on with my trip down memory lane, I am re-reading a beloved childhood series this fall. We continue on following Mildred's shenanigans at Miss Cackles Academy for Witches. These always made me smile. Loving this series again!
When it’s Summer term at Miss Cackles Academy Mildred Hubble makes disaster all because of new girl Enid Nightshade. This is a great book with many challenging words so I would definitely recommend it to children aged 8-12.
I remember this being my favourite out of the Worst Witch series (I'd only read the first 4). Enid's character always kept me on edge and overall it was a nice re-read.A very much loved children's book.I'm definitely biased when I say I love it and it's brilliant!!
These are okay, but since they're not terribly interesting, I won't be continuing on with the series.
Review to come.
Another chapter book for the boy. So annoyi9ng I can't find book three because he loves these. And they get him to sleep at night!
I still think this is a cute story, but I did like the first one better.
Not nearly enough magic...
Nice AdventureI love it, great book, great adventure for all ages <3 i love Mildred, this chapter is amazing, I love every detail in this adventure
Read February 2018
