https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/778304.How_to_Write
You won't find any descriptions here--of anything, in particular or in general--but you will find, if you can suspend any craving you might have for linear narrative, a book that is itself indescribably rich in possibilities.
Stein arranges the "chapters" of this book so as to make a certain improbable sense, and within those chapters language itself is arranged carefully and with an attempt to evoke full consciousness of what the very structures of writing imply.
Many people who like this book still don't know how.
A mixed bag, a tough row to hoe, all that jazz. Does contain everyone's favorite Steinism: "A sentence is not emotional a paragraph is."
'The Picasso of Words'I just love this book, with all its masterful whimsy, it's hilarity piled toplingly high.
It counteracts all that is wrong with the world, it's willfulness supercedes every other.
Her basic idea, that a word can be assigned a meaning of its own by the writer, independent of how everyone else views that word, delights and intimidates me.
I mean, I know you can't *really* write that way in the real world, it would be madness.
But sometimes you can *stretch* a word beyond its normal usage, and I do that (probably more than I should) for the exhilaration of it all.
Getch'yer mind blown, right here, courtesy of Gertrude.
"How to Write" won't teach you how to write but how to think about words, and like Stein said writing isn't about words but imagining. So, why read this book? It will teach you how to write.
I don't know what to say about this book. It's truly a masterpiece though. A masterpiece of what, though, is the big question. It's a really fun book to read out loud at a party. It's a great book if you like words but don't care much for their meanings or usage. I dunno, I really have no idea what to say about this book except that I love it dearly. Some day I will actually read the whole thing.
"Buy me a present."
Didn't understand a word.
Reading how to write is an incredibly peaceful experience. Thanks Gertrude!
I found it to be a very intriguing experience to read this book. It was like meditation: words, passages, pages all washing past - alive for a fleeting moment and then lost again to time.
Sheer linguistical horseplay. Fun, fun, fun stuff.
But then she would probably have written only one book, and that would be boring.Working through How to Write was like learning to read all over again - it was annoying and hard work.
""How many times can they be indifferent to a distant sound.""Not having had it and lost it.""Grammar makes it alone it makes it be happy alone and she said it was useful.""The great difficulty is to tell by a hoarse voice if the voice is hoarse because of the city or because of the country.""What is grammar.
My notes after reading this book - She is Loony Tunes. The flow and sound of words when read aloud (which is important but for some reason, that's all I got out of this book).
well, it is upto to read it since i found this book very personal and had a strong personality of stein attached to it just like you find in books of Hemingway. a writer's tale about how one's such life can get messed up in doing so. at end do give a read. you'll find it interesting and connecting.
