https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61938.The_Rowan
This would have been devastating.(*with full acknowledgement of all of the frankly fucked-up views Anne McCaffrey held, I still like some of her work and nearly cried when I heard she had passed away.)This book is just...
Not only that, but he's got no weaknesses - the Rowan, in one of the few examples of conflict this book has to offer, fights to overcome a fear of space travel, but Jeff can already do it right off the bat!
There's really not.Some thoughts on McCaffrey's bizarre attitudes towards sex below.(view spoiler)[Having read a lot of her work before I wasn't entirely unprepared, but goddamn does the way she treats sex and romance have deep-rooted issues.
A great science fiction with just a touch of romance.
Those that have these abilities are known as Talents.
The story starts the the girl (to be known as Rowan) at a very young age.
This book follows her training as a talent and continues through her young adult years.
The Rowan is found to be one of the strongest Talents (known as T1 Primes).
Her journey is a great one to read.
I was able to gloss over the romantic aspects more as a younger child and also somehow I seemed to have understood what was going on better then.
I first read this book when I was 7 or 8 years old.
I have read it EVERY year since.
I love this book.
She has influenced me throughout my adolescence and I will continue to read her story probably for the rest of my life.
I will give this book to my children to read.
They ALL love it!The story starts out on the planet of Altair.
Rowan starts out a toddler and you get to follow her through her adolescence and into adulthood.
Through loss and love, heartache and joy.
Even the critical reviews here on Goodreads point out that at least the book starts off well. I would have to disagree. Apart from the absurdity of people moving spaceships with their minds is the bizarre writing style. The author uses lots of ten-dollar SAT words but then employs basic vocabulary in confusingly imprecise fashion, for example calling a 3-year-old an "infant" (in conversations where a pediatrician is present). If you are going to dig through the dictionary, then look at the definitions and the nuances of meaning that distinguish similar words from each other.
However, Rowan has incredible psychic powers in telepathy and telekinesis which caused people from other planets to hear her crying.
Due to her strong powers, they thought that the Rowan would grow into someone called a Prime.
She eventually grows up and takes over a Tower, but she's lonely and listless.
I got up to the part where the Rowan takes over a Tower and then she hears a distress signal and was still liking it.
I don't know, I thought there was this whole building of the character Rowan but the love story was instant.
End rant.
Look at it as the story of a charismatic megalomaniac coming along at a time and with the Talent to be helpful to humanity and feed his ego at the same time, and not a romance, and it's slightly less nauseating.
When Jeff Raven forces/compels/"helps" the Rowan to recover her memories: (view spoiler)["he had pierced through every layer of privacy in her mind" — "She cried out at the force of his mental penetration" — "his intrusion." (hide spoiler)] I agree that she wanted to remember who her parents are but ...

But, I am even more annoyed that is was voted the book of the month under Women in Sci-Fi. This is space romance.
Amazed at such powers in such a young child, she is trained up to be the strongest 'talent' there is.In a remniscence of Weber's Harrington novels, she even gets the honor of being adopted by a Barquecat.OK, good premise, could lead to something very interesting.
A raw talent in a nearby colony calls out for help, and the Rowan is instantly in love.
Seriously?Because of their love they are able to brush away some hive-type beetle invaders.
Seriously?Ugh. Women in Science Fiction?
Using mental powers alone, these few Prime Talents transport ships, cargo and people between Earth's Moon, Mars' Demos and Jupiter's Callisto.An orphaned young girl, simply called The Rowan, is discovered to have superior telepathic potential and is trained to become Prime Talent on Callisto.
After years of self-sacrificing dedication to her position, The Rowan intercepts an urgent mental call from Jeff Raven, a young Prime Talent on distant Deneb.
She convinces the other Primes to merge their powers with hers to help fight off an attack by invading aliens.
Not a bad book, the writing just isn't to my taste. This author's books have always been hit and miss for me. Some suck me right in but the writing in a lot of them feels sterile. Unfortunately, this was one that just didn't work for me.
As I seem to do with each reread, I've once again devoured this book. My binge reading of the Pegasus series and now the sequel series is continuing.
The Rowan is an orphaned girl with incredible psychic power and a cute little psychic pet. Oh the pain she suffers from being an orphan! Oh the oppression of being so powerful! Oh the agony of no one understanding your Speshulness!
The story follows the main character—an orphan called The Rowan—through her very early years into adulthood, exploring the challenges a uniquely strong Talent would face in her life, and explores what it might mean to have extremely strong telepathic plus telekinetic "Talents" that, with assistance, can literally reach across light years.
Audiobook2-1/2 stars.What I liked about this book? I especially enjoyed the whiny heroine having fits all over the place. NOT!That's one of the reasons for this low rating. The mind meld stuff was so boring to me but that might have to do with it not being easily transferable to audiobook. I'll let that be another excuse why I didn't like the book very much. I never got into the hero either, very egotistical, but then what can you expect from a man who everyone likes. So I don't think I'll read/listen to anymore of this series.
I have to admit that when I first read the blurb I thought it would be a very complicated sci fi story and that I wouldn't love it as much as Anne McCaffrey's dragon books.
I started reading it and thought how much it made sense that humans would have found a way to colonise other planets and that - of course - Talents exist and would take a bigger role in our society in the future.
Each new Anne McCaffrey book I pick up looks weird and something I might not like at first but it takes me a few pages to immerse myself in a new adventure that is thrilling to read and fascinating to think about.
The initial mental flirting between the Rowan and Jeff Raven actually hints at what could have been, if that part didn't suddenly move at light speed and an acute case of INSTA-LOVE didn't develop.
But here we have mother and lover, and while they do work separately from Jeff, the book takes on the feel of beginning to revolve around Jeff.And that isn't helped when he's offered Earth Prime, and Rowan is content because she apparently has no ambition.
But there is something about this series, these particular characters, that I can't seem to ever let go of, and choose to revisit every once in a while.I'm sure part of it's because the Rowan, whose real name ends up being Angharad Gwyn, and her sense of isolation and loneliness that tugs at those same feelings in my own life.
Like the Rowan, I grew up, and while that loneliness never goes away all the way, I've learned to deal with it, and have come out of my shell quite a bit.
I picked this as my first reread of her books - not because I don't have loads of others I could reread but I have realised that I know the plots of almost all books still to a pretty large degree of detail - although my last time rereading is probably ten years in the past.That's because I discovered her as one of the major female sf&f authors in print in the UK when I went over there for the first time as an au-pair in 88/89.
(hide spoiler)]Possibly the earlier Tower and Hive books - the Pegasus ones - might not be as imprinted on my brain.
The Rowan catapulted to the top of my all time favorites list and here’s why….What I love about the heroine:Rowan is a lonely young woman, with incredible psychic gifts, who takes herself too seriously at times.
She also has courage, always manages to rise above events, and steps up to the plate to save the world and her hero.What I love about the hero:Jeff Raven is a mystery man who calls out to his heroine across space.
Besides, he is struggling desperately to save his people, what could be more heroic?Other cool stuff I like about this story:The psychics in this book are charged with making space travel happen.
I have always had a lot of books even as a child but when I was in school I stopped reading till I w
The only reason I picked up this book was because there was a short story in Get off the Unicorn and it peaked my interest - I was NOT a reader.
I read this book and loved it and it basically was the spark that started my love of reading.
I have read this book many times, have had to replace my mass market copy and expect I will read it many more times.
A must read for any reader, regardless of your preferred genre.
This is one of my all-time favorite books.
I first read it when I was 13 or 14 and continued to pick up Anne McCafrey's entire catalog afterwards.
I've read it every few years since (I'm now 34) and still adore it!
I even have a signed copy from when I met Ms. McCaffrey back ing 2005.
Sadly, the reason I picked it up again was because Ms. McCaffrey passed away just a few days ago - on November 21, 2011.
It seemed fitting to read it again now as a celebration of her life and the role she played in turning a young girl into an avid reader.
McCaffrey tends to over-do her female leads sometimes, and the Rowan and Damian are prime examples of this (no pun intended). I still liked the books very much however because they're an easy fun read. They're more sci/fi-romance-adventure really.
There were definitely moments (particularly of male domineering) that irritated me, but then there would be amazing moments of feminine empowerment I loved, particularly in the final conflict resolution.
The romance aspect is the single fastest case of insta-love I've ever encountered, but I suppose it could be explained by the nature of telepathy and those two characters being Primes.
Ultimately the parts I didn't like were outweighed by my overall enjoyment of the characters, worldbuilding, and main conflict.
I can't wait to reread the rest of the series.Also, I absolutely love the cover art!
From a general reading perspective the authors abilities to craft an interesting story with solid, believable and interesting characters in an interesting and well described environment are on show but about half-way through the book (where the bad piece starts) things get a little crazy, almost like the author had had enough of writing this book and just wanted everything to come together and end.
Specifically I felt that it suffered from at least three major flaws (four if you count the issues I had with the audio since I listened to this one):Caution: Potential Minor Spoilers Below1) The Rowan starts out as a pretty strong character until, about half-way through the book, she just suddenly turns into a doormat for the main male protagonist when the "love at first sight" meeting occurs.
McCaffrey is without doubt a master of storytelling and in that this book is no exception, it is an enjoyable, easy read, it flows effortlessly through the plot, the pacing is excellent and the dialogue (mostly) is fluid and natural.
So how come the Prime of Altair can’t tell them where to look for the child that is giving them all headaches with her telepathic screaming and is on the same planet as them.The characters are what ultimately upset me the most.
Sure, after the first part of the book she is a strong mature character who has come through her (clichéd) traumatic upbringing to run her own station.
The Rowan (1990) by Anne McCaffrey is an expansion and continuation of the Rowan story found in Get of the Unicorn, a collection of stories written in the 1960's.There are two ways to expand a story: rewrite it or extend it.
Anne should have taken the original story and completely rewritten it within so that the entire story works as a novel, revising or revisiting the dated tropes of the original story.
Even Anne's work in the 60's feels a little dated for the 60's.
Even if you can get over the dated feel, the architecture of the novel doesn't even work.
I liked some of the ideas (having the Rowan discovered as a very talented telepath as a toddler was kind of compelling), but I tended to have an instinct to cringe whenever people's psychic abilities in science fiction books were "rated," and this book had a lot of that.
And since the character the Rowan was one of the most powerful people in the book, she was saddled with a lot of responsibility and pretty much ended up having to spend a lot of time alone, which was also kind of compelling but also weird.
Telekinetic and telepathic powers are used to communicate and teleport spaceships through space, thus avoiding the light barrier and allowing for the colonization of other solar systems.The Rowan tells the life story of a young orphan, of Prime Talent, from the moment the child's community is wiped out in a mudslide to the time when she becomes a Prime and after a life of loneliness falls in love with a previously undiscovered Prime in a far away star system being attacked by aliens.The central section of the book is based on McCaffrey's earlier short story "Lady in the Tower"This book is a bit slow to start But Keep Reading as it and the ones that follow are well worth reading.
Don't worry if you haven't read the short story before this as you get most of the back story in this book.
I was really disappointed I'm my re-read of this book after having loved it when it first came out.
This time around I could not look past the sexism, I felt like I needed to put an apron on and go cook a scrumptious meal for my man who has worked so hard all day just like me but he deserves a rest and a massage while I praise him up to make him feel important.
All the while trying not to get angry that he has been given a job better suited to me as I am far more qualified but because I will be having babies he should have the job instead as he is next best suited to it after me.
