https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10664113-a-dance-with-dragons
After six years, it was a thrill to let it envelope me, and at least at first, I was totally fine just letting myself be guided unresisting through the scenery.I also think that this book has a lot of really good things to say about politics, law, war, and the realities of being a ruler or a subject.
Those in Plot A might be involved in/aware of B, but certainly don’t know about C, though people in D are certainly aware of A but not B, etc, and are clearly going to have spectacular head-on collisions from flailing about in the dark, or thinking they understood the plan when they were very very wrong.
Dear George R.R. Martin.  Hello. My name is Inigo Montoya. You may have killed my favorite character. Prepare to die  roll in dough as we continue buying your brick-sized creations. (The above is what you'd expect from a book titled "A Dance with Dragons." Disclaimer: For the vast majority of this book's pages, none of it happens.)Yes, I have a few problems with this latest installment in GRRM's neverending magnum opus. I have high standards for GRRM after ASOIAF 1-3. Hey, I read GRRM before I e
(The above is what you'd expect from a book titled "A Dance with Dragons." Disclaimer: For the vast majority of this book's pages, none of it happens.)Yes, I have a few problems with this latest installment in GRRM's neverending magnum opus.
Cheap and lazy trick, Mr. Martin.In the meantime, I see another Tyrion or Dany or Quentyn or Davos chapter and get a nagging feeling - wait, haven't I read this already?-------------------------------------------------------------------------WORDS ARE WIND - GRRM seems to hammer this message in on what feels like every other page.
"Words are wind," says George R. R. Martin (GRRM) no less than 13 times in the latest installment of his  A Song of Ice and Fire  series. In this incredibly windy tome there was very little advancement of the overall story and no resolution to any of the myriad plot threads. Instead, most of the book followed characters travelling, yet in its 1,000+ pages only one reaches his destination while the rest are still travelling.Words are wind, and GRRM is a windbag. His predilection for overwriting i
Instead, most of the book followed characters travelling, yet in its 1,000+ pages only one reaches his destination while the rest are still travelling.Words are wind, and GRRM is a windbag.
Had this book been properly edited, we might have been saved 129 appearances of GRRM's new favorite words: leal, niello, neeps, nightsoil, serjeant, jape, and nuncle.
(hide spoiler)] I do not like lists, GRRM.
(hide spoiler)] All of which was entirely pointless to the story.GRRM ruined two of my favorite characters.
GRRM cannot seem to write a strong female character unless she's a warrior (Brienne, Ygritte, Arya).
Eating a side of braised elk spleen and a hunk of bread with a cheese sauce, the minor character said, "If so, even more of the action is likely to shift away from the viewpoint characters, and THEN we'll see whether any of the characters from the first volume even make it to the final book, A Trample of Turtles." "But," Tyrion pondered aloud, eating inch-long prawns from a trencher filled with a hot butter sauce, "If the Starks send nine hundred of their men from the outer borders of ThatoneplaceImentionedOnce, and they move down toward the Lannister forces on Dragon's Fjord before the Lannister forces can unite with the Great Army of the Unwashed Men, perhaps they can defeat the bunjillion soldiers in the south now being ushered in the general direction of King's Landing by that one other guy.
Purchased anew, and laid it beside her bed,Conflicting thoughts flying through her head.Afraid almost to crack the covers, read the pages,What if it was the last book? "No, More," she rages.What if it wasn't? How long the wait next time?Five years? Seven? Thirteen? Unlucky, even in rhyme.First I must reread all the others...refresh my brain of Snow and all his Brothers.Sansa is no smarter than I did recall.Starks should avoid other Kings Halls.Weddings never make things merry,The price too high for use of ferry.Mouse, wolf, frog, fish, crowDragon fire will lay them low.l
I'm blown away that someone could write a book so long in which nothing actually happensI wrote a longer review at http://allthenominees.blogspot.comBut it says pretty much the same thing.
My rating for the book is set in the context of the alternative works of fantasy on the shelves rather than in an attempt to rank this volume amongst its predecessors (I would say signficantly better than A Feast For Crows - less good than the first three, still excellent)[Sunday Express review]By the time you reach the end of George Martin’s A Dance with Dragons you will be nearly two million words into A Song of Ice and Fire, a sprawling epic fantasy series that is for many readers the single most defining work in the genre for a generation.
(B+) 78% | GoodNotes: Picks up near the end, but having so many viewpoints waters down tension and makes things difficult to remember.
The smell was revolting, and flakes of brown and bubbling slime oozed down his legs like gravy."Farts are wind." He chuckled, saliva running down his beard and undershirt.CHAPTER ONEHe opened his refrigerator to check its contents.
But first comes the setup, and then he would put his pieces to play.CHAPTER THIRTY"Good morning, sir.
I have a review to write, and these random romantic dalliances will only waste time!" But as if succumbing to an invisible force that filled with extreme laziness, his eyes glossed over and his stomach spilled over his belt, and once again he was lost.
But the end had come at last; there was no more time for those distractions.
Aye.Vote: 8Quinto capitolo delle cronache del ghiaccio e del fuoco ed ennesima conferma che il successore più degno di J.R.R. Tolkien in materia di fantasy epico-medievale è George R.R. Martin.
Strano, perchè Il Trono di Spade è una delle più belle ballate che la letteratura contemporanea ci ha donato.Lannister, Baratheon, Targaryen, Stark, Greyjoy, Bolton, Martell e tante altre casate continuano il loro gioco per il potere fatto di alleanze e tradimenti continui, in cui non ci si può fidare di nessuno, nemmeno dei propri figli.
I used to like Tyrion, but he spent half the book rowing down a river, and the other half wiping a man's ass.Dany, reminds me of Brionny from Shadowmarch - clothes, food, suitors galore and loving servants willing to eat a sword for her.
The two Cersei chapters read nice, but are still pointless, (we've had enough introspection from her, right?
Everybody was either in the snow, on a boat, or getting married and eating food.
So now it's getting to where my watching the shows before the books are confusing me. I mean I have the pre-order of season 7 coming next week and I feel like this book isn't up to date. Then I remember that we are still waiting for the next book. Well, next 3 books according to GR. Anyhoo, I'm going to add some spoiler gifs next. So if you haven't read or seen any of the shows you can pass up the next 3 gifs. I will scroll down a wee bit before adding. 🖤🐺🖤....🖤🐺🖤Mel ❤️
When the next book comes out I will devour it in an angry sort of way.
I’ll curse George R.R. Martin for leaving me in suspense, but I’ll then praise his name whilst I’m reading again.Enough of that, let’s talk about this book.
George R.R Martin likes to be unpredictable, so it will probably end with something unforeseen, which will hopefully be better.
A Dance with Dragons-  A convoluted four stars 6.
That’s why I knocked my rating down a star; the book was very convoluted.
I’m hoping with the rest of the series there is a focus back onto the main characters.
Some things just better stay unsaid.POV's I liked:Jon Snow - the 998th Lord Commander has a very interesting life...or has he?Bran Stark - a bore for the first few books and now my favourite chaptersArya Stark - one of the most intruiging plots, I have no idea where this may leadMelisandre - she cloaks herself in red and mysteryCersei - always making sure King's Landing stays interestingTyrion - the sharpest tongue and mind in pretty much everywherePOV's I have struggled with or did not care about:Areo Hotah - while I love Dorne and the Sandsnakes, Areo and the Prince are for yawnsDaenerys - such a frustrating plot, especially when you've watched the show firstSer Barristan Selmy - see "Daenerys"Victarion Greyjoy - disgusting character with an interesting plotTheon Greyjoy - see "Victarion"Jaime - I hardly remember his chaptersJon Connington - not the most interesting character, but at least young Gryff is promisingDavos - why would someone write chapters about such a plain boring character.
Each of these books are so incredibly long that it feels like a major accomplishment to complete them.
Mr. Martin is not one to spare details, and this book is full of them.That being said, I spent a lot of time feeling lost.
I certainly didn't need more added to the mix!Unlike book 4, this fifth book offers plenty of time with Dany and the dragons.
This was a major plus for me, since Dany is my favorite character in the series thus far.
Although, by the end of the book I had a renewed sense of optimism where Dany is concerned.'A Dance With Dragons' also features Cersei finally getting a taste of her own medicine.
I think part of my difficulty with reading ADWD is my refusal to skip anything, I never felt this urge to in the 1st 3 books.
Sadism, swearing and "grimdark" elements have also increased which is also in my opinion MArtin falling into his own tropes and not to the benefit of the prose or story.I have only just finished ADWD but others seemed to have finished very quickly, I suspect they skipped many Tyrion and Dany bits and probably found the whole experience more enjoyable.
Due partially to good timing, and partially to luck, I completed Crows shortly before the release of Martin’s long-awaited fifth book, A Dance With Dragons.
The plot for Dragons picks up where Swords ended and runs concurrent (at least for the first half) with Crows (in an early scene, between Samwell and Jon, we are treated to a conversation held in Crows, though this time it is told from Jon’s point of view, rather than Sam).
For instance, characters such as Areo Hotah, Victarion Greyjoy, and Quentyn Martell flit past so quickly, they barely register an impression.Right off the bat, Martin addresses the main criticism of Crows by treating us to successive chapters on Jon, Tyrion, and Daenerys.
I am tired of PoV chapters about nothing in particular, with some flashbacks to the past and then kaboom, chapter ends with some massive revelation (that we are not told of) or even more likely, the character in apparent mortal danger (view spoiler)[ because if any reader thinks Jon is going to die dead-dead before the final book, I got a bridge I want to sell you.
I better put this into (view spoiler)[: I think GRRM can not write a long, sustained and sympathetic female PoV, when the female is not a woman which fights (or wants to fight) with swords/axes.
I know fans will say that's what the list of characters is for, but my *personal* attitude is that I don't like flipping back and forth in the book every time I forget who someone was four chapters ago.
I feel as if the hole Martin got himself into when Danaerys chose to settle in one city rather than keep moving has expanded into a massive, unmanageable trap that it's going to be well-nigh impossible to write his way out of for any of the characters caught there.
I have no words. This series is something else.
however, Virgo is also a discriminating sign and so will often find vulgarity and selfish physicality to be negative and worthy of critique and improvement; the unrepressed pleasure principle of the Id is an aspect of the personality that must not be allowed to take precedence.Martin places his Id within his POV characters Theon and Asha Greyjoy.
Virgos who do not restrain their tendencies towards constant altruism will often, at best, rub people the wrong way and, at worst, be easily taken advantage of by those that they hold in high regard or be held hostage to their own belief system.Martin has placed his Superego in many characters.
8/27/11 Ok, no it didn't take me a month to read the book.
1. Dany and her dragons will never ever ever ever ever ever ever get moving.
There was no dancing with dragons.
There was a nice little view of dragons in a third rate zoo from a hundred yards away.
I felt like the majority of this loooooong book was filler material.
_______________________________________ 7/22/11 Yes, finally we reads the precious.
Ah yes I fondly remember when I read the first book, I in my training bra, reaching forth into the world George R.R. Martin had created.
Well, I guess we know now why Martin took so long to release this latest volume: it's a steaming mess.Forget for a moment the fact that of the many principal POV characters, only one (Jon Snow) has any discernible character arc throughout the tome's 940+ pages.
So what?The larger issue is this: Martin has created a wondrous, fully-realized world in which many people (including myself) are happy to spend a great deal of time.
It's as if J.K. Rowling decided to create a book between 4 and 5, with the great bulk of time devoted to Hermione's wanderings in Dobby's homeland instead of Hogwarts.
Remember how you'd be watching a totally banal episode, and you're like "Oh, interesting, everyone is mad at Hurley for eating ranch dressing right out of the tub, that's, gee, that's compelling, hey now do more scenes of Jack and Kate re-establishing readily apparent character conflicts and interrelationships, zzz." But then at the end of the episode, something totally crazy would happen, and you'd be all "OMG IS VINCENT THE SMOKE MONSTER?" and the music would go bbbbaaaaarrrRRRRRRRAAAANNNN DUMMMMM [cut to black]?
And who doesn't like a climactic monster attack or a shocking character death?
Whenever I've heard about other people's favorite books that they reread once a year, I'm puzzled by the fact that they say that they find new things every time when reading.
Not every time, is it?In fact whenever I reread a Dance with Dragons, I get lost at the very same place, my most treasured book parts are the self same.
I don't read the book to hone any detective skill that might be lying dormant in me, but for pure pleasure.I know the book has problems, but I say that it wouldn't do to follow the same schema as previous books.
You who have favorite books and reread them every year.
I wonder what will come first Winds of Winter or the final season of Game of Thrones?
1.) A Game of Thrones ★★★★★2.) A Clash of Kings ★★★★★3.) A Storm of Swords ★★★★★4.) A Feast for Crows ★★★★★#readASOIAF Read-Along - Hosted by Riley from Riley Marie, Elizabeth from Liz Loves Literature, and Kayla from BOOKadoodles.
Even though Melisandre is marching with Stannis and his men to see if they can defeat the Boltons so he will be one step closer to winning the throne, my favorite points of view were from Asha Greyjoy.
I very much loved rereading Tyrion's point of view, again!
I know that we have an unfair advantage with the show maybe being book-cannon, but I'm really looking forward to her meeting with Tyrion in The Winds of Winter.
I equally like some of the lesser characters that have been so fun: Davos Seaworth, Jorah Mormont, Beric Dondarrion, Strong Belwas...there are so many but each does seem to stand out in their own ways.As to my former query about craft vs art and as to whether it is justified to compare this work to that of Tolkein, I think that Martin earned his stripes with these last two books.
And Jon Snow faces dissent from his brothers of the Watch...In the latest installment of Incest and Intrigue, more of the pieces are placed on the board.
Daenerys can't trust anyone.
Jon Snow can't trust anyone.
I liked that Brienne is still alive and that Jaime Lannister chose to follow her instead of rushing to Cercei's defense.
Jon Snow getting knifed on the Wall by his sworn brothers didn't sit well with me.
I'm really hoping he's still alive come next book, whenever that may be.It looks like Theon is headed for redemption but I'd rather see him dead or taking the black.
The never ending game of thrones continues, and in this fifth installment things get quite out of hand. Full of deceit and wrong decisions that lead to consequences beneath a human being's capability to accept. Never a dull moment with George R. R. Martin, another masterpiece.I could talk about the plot and characters for days if I wanted to, but I'll try my best to make this review as short as possible.   Kindly note that this will contain spoilers! Don't read beyond this part, unless you're a
I know that I'm not the only one who likes her, but I will be one of the few who will say that she has fully developed in this novel.
Now we're talking about my favorite character of the series alongside Tyrion and Daenerys as of right now (thanks to George R.
So I ended up hating the author till the end of the novel, but when I was reading the character/house list in the end, I saw that Jon didn't have the { } in his name, so there's hope!
