https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26052.First_Impressions
Basically, millionaire business executives, you have to stop masquerading as carpenters because we are not having it anymore.A couple of other cute things from this book were, first, the hilariously inaccurate statements the fem.
makes about the experience of teaching in the inner city (apparently she did it for four years, but I am like, girlfriend, based upon these statements you are making, there is no way so please just stop pretending), and second, the title, which as I'm sure every romance reader knows was the original title of Austen's Pride and Prejudice, which is just SO APT because First Impressions and P&P are practically twinsies.
I found First Impressions by Nora Roberts a few months ago while browsing in a little tiny thrift shop. Nora Roberts is one of my all time favorite authors and the beautiful Christmas cover also attracted me. This was a perfect book for this time of year. Vance Banning is the president of the nation’s largest construction business. But, he needs a break from the city and from his past. So he buys the old Farley place in the country to restore it and try to find himself again. Somehow, though, t
Nora Roberts is one of my all time favorite authors and the beautiful Christmas cover also attracted me.
This was a perfect book for this time of year.
But, he needs a break from the city and from his past.
The first time she laid eyes on Vance, she felt something.
She knew she needed to find out just what that feeling was but Vance was having none of it.
But, Shane decides she needs his help with her house and thinks that Vance needs the work so she hires him as a carpenter.
This book was hilarious! I kept picturing Shane as Debby Reynolds in her early years. Cheerful and fun!  The scene with him trying to push her car out of the mud, and then getting covered with it when she stepped on the gas too hard? That actually happened to me in my teens. My date did not think it was funny when he was covered in mud, either. 🤣Laughed so hard I was crying!
Iba muy bien hasta que se puso todo melcocho. Nojombre, eso me arruinó el libro. Iba muy genial. Me dio mucha risa al inicio, cuando ella le dice a la amiga: este es el hombre con el que me voy a casar, sólo que aún no lo sabe.
I wanted to grab her, shake her, and demand that she shut the hell up for two seconds so Vance could give her the explanation she's demanding so violently.
And then there is a scene where Shane lets her mother break her heart again.
So how the hell are you so surprised and gullible when she shows up and pulls some shit?
She does this whole "I trusted you and you were laughing at me the whole time!
, when she's having that psychotic break and hearing her mother's voice in her head saying "They're all gonna laugh at you!
Amo a Nora Roberts, en cualquier formato y de cualquier año. Vance es un gran personaje!! Muy digno de Nora Roberts, duro por fuera pero dulce como el chocolate derretido por dentro, tiene muy buenos motivos para tener su corazón (y su billetera) tan bien custodiados. Shane es totalmente abierta y alocada, lo opuesto a Vance y por eso lo intriga y enfurece a la vez. Si a esto le sumamos el contexto histórico de la Guerra Civil, un museo, unas cuantas antigüedades y una romántica historia en Navidad... encontramos a un ganador!!
This book has the qualities of a fairytale and I love that.
The hero literally sweeps the heroine off her feet.It has the usual contemporary romance feel - he loves me, he loves me not, he loves me, he loves me not...Then, oh, HE LOVES ME!
It was sweet.
I laughed out loud several times during the story.
Nora Roberts is so clever with the interaction she has between the two characters.The hero is a disguised prince, note that he is rich and he ends up falling for a small town girl with little possessions.
Isn't that what all girls dream about?
All Nora Robert's books are predicable stories now. Boring, same characters in each, just with a different name and job. Waste of time to read.
If this keeps up, I'm going to have to revise my opinion of Nora Roberts books released in the 80s.
I liked this book more than my rating is going to show—mainly because I half fell in love with Shane, myself.
It was frustrating and completely unnecessary that she forgot herself so much that she could let it affect the love she knows she has.
Frustrating beyond belief and it doesn't help that her crisis is propelled by the very least appealing character of the book (and possibly of all Roberts' 80s novels).
First Impressions - G+Nora Roberts Escaping the rat race and the lure of gold-digging women, wealthy businessman Vance Banning moves to a small, rural retreat, telling the townsfolk that he's an out-of-work carpenter.
So the last thing he needs is a charitable neighbor--especially a beautiful, gracious and persistent neighbor of the female persuasion--but there's something about Shane Abbott he just can't ignore.Vance is certain his cover story will stop his lovely neighbor from getting too friendly, but Shane is determined to break down his resistance.
Vance has been burned once, so only a fool would fall for the same innocent act twice.

I found this on my local library Christmas display table. I loved this book! It is about Vance, a man taking a break from his life by buying an old rundown farm in a small town where no one knows him. Shane and Vance meet and it is true love at first sight. Both feel it but they take a little time figureing that out. She makes him feel alive again after so many years of guilt while she comes to terms with the death of the one true family member she has left!
I just keep trying to like Nora Roberts. Bailed out on this before the end. Where's some depth to the story? A storyline, would be good, rather than just the waiting for the physical contact. Need more in a book. Nixed it to Goodwill.
What a sweet story. I just loved Shane. She is just the sweetest thing. I love her ambition and I love her willingness to fall so much in love with someone she didn't know. As usual, Nora makes it so easy to put myself in the main character's place and just imagine myself living in this book.
Shane Abbott hopes to convert part of the house she inherited from her grandmother into an antiques shop and Civil War museum.
Much work needs to be done to the house, and, luckily, her new neighbor is an unemployed carpenter.
However, Vance Banning is downright rude when Shane approaches him.
Shane is nothing if not persistent and slowly wins Vance's heart only to find he is not the person she thought he was.
This is a reprint of a very early Nora Roberts romance.
It is a cute and sexy story, but the reader will be aware of how much Roberts has grown as a writer.
Review haiku:She thinks carpenter,But really executive.True love overcomes.
Vance Banning, (that is such a romance novel hero name, isn't it?) is the president of a huge construction company in D.C. but he's burnt out, so he decides to take a leave of absence and spend some time alone renovating this old house in the same town.
But then they get together and I loved it!Of course there is some conflict, especially because Shane believes Vance is an out-of-work construction worker, not the president of a huge company.
Once Vance decided he wanted to be with Shane (which took him a little bit) he was committed, and that kind of hero always wins me over.
I liked the storyline, I thought it was cute but I was a little confused when Shane's mom showed up.
Besides that fact, I couldn't get over the similarities between the character of Vance and Roarke from her In Death series.I realize this book was written way before the appearance of Roarke, and I have a feeling she may have been basing Roarke's character on the same person Vance was based on, or Roarke came from Vance.
Either way, whenever he came onto the stage I couldn't help but think about the similarities.It didn't ruin the story, but it was distracting.
I loved the peacefulness that the setting as well as Shane's character brought and evoked, and i loved Vance's tough demeanor, with the kind heart hiding itself gor protection.
Although i dont' agree with waering your heart on your sleeve at all times, i wish it could be that way but as Vance has learned, you can't.
i loved their first time and the love and simplicity of the BLTS and fireplace.
I related to Shane because she traded the small town for the big city, but realized peace and quiet is all she wanted, as well as love of course!
So, I was looking for a mindless, fluffy, Christmas romance book just because I wanted to feel Christmassy without working too hard.
The name Nora Roberts was familiar.
I thought for mindless, fluffy romance perhaps.
This was definitely a mindless, fluffy, melodramatic, predictable, false-drama infused romance.
What I did not realize is that Nora Roberts writes mindless romance WITH STEAMY SEX SCENES, lol.
And that's if "steamy" means unintentionally comical (hey, these scenes start early in the narrative, don't judge me).
So, now I know what to expect from Nora Roberts.
Oh and yes, the Christmas depicted was positively magical.
First book I've ever read by Roberts and was pleasantly surprised.
Fun contemporary read.
I really liked Shane and Vance.
Vance was just yum and way too fun.
Loved the tension set up between them especially after their 'first meeting'.
I liked the 'total opposites' dynamic between the two.
Vance with his dark cynical broody attitude verses Shane's sweet caring unassuming nature.
I liked how Shane quickly put Vance on edge and he didn't know what to make of her.
Was very realistic and not forced and just a sweet love story.
This was a great Christmas romance, and as always I adore Nora Roberts' writing.
My only complaint with her (and it relates to this book also) is that sometimes she makes her male characters a little TOO tough for my taste.
However, Vance (in this novel) was tough AND sweet at the same time - and you could definitely see his past struggles.
I thought the story was very cute and realistic, and I loved Shane, the lead female character.
This was my first Christmas Nora Roberts novel and I really enjoyed it!
Author: Nora RobertsFirst published: 1984Length: 283 pagesSetting: Contemporary. Sharpsburg, Maryland.Sex: Reasonably explicit and frequent.Hero: Corporate CEO taking a breather.Heroine: Former High School teacher now starting an antiques shop and museum.A nice enough M&B with a gently developing romance. Easy to read and simple.References:Author's website: http://noraroberts.com(Read in Mistletoe and Snow ISBN 978-0-263-25017-6)-CR-
Another goodreads shelf recommendation. This one really made me homesick. Which is why I added the forth star to my normal three star rating that I normally give for a solid read. It was so refreshing to see good, small town people, helping out and stepping up. Also fun to think back to all the crazy grapevine gossip that goes hand in hand with small town living. Great characters, great writing... I had a great time.
Nora Roberts has made me happy...again. I grabbed this little gem today in the used book store, needing a distraction from my bad mood. I read the whole thing this afternoon, with a grin on my face the whole time. This was yet again a prime example of why Nora Roberts is THE Nora Roberts. She always delivers and she inspires me to try and do the same as an author. Thank you, Nora, for brightening my day.
I'm a 18 year old college teen and so far liking the book. Im up to the part where Vance brought Shane into the house so that he would make love to her. Screw Cy, Shane deserves Vance. ❤. Forget Twilight, First Impressions is a way better love story. I would compare myself to Shane because she would always laugh all the time, and I would laugh all the time. She even almost hysterically laugh when Vance was talking off his clothes!
I'm a 18 year old college teen and so far liking the book. Im up to the part where Vance brought Shane into the house so that he would make love to her. Screw Cy, Shane deserves Vance. ❤️. Forget Twilight, First Impressions is a way better love story. I would compare myself to Shane because she would always laugh all the time, and I would laugh all the time. She even almost hysterically laugh when Vance was talking off his clothes!
I do not believe that Nora writes bad books, just some are better than others. This book is entertaining, but for me it showed it's age a bit, it was written in 1984. Nora has definately written a lot better stories. It has some funny moments and some cheesy ones. If you are a die hard Nora fan, of course you have to buy it and read it at least once. Otherwise I recommend reading a friends copy or visiting your local library.
I READ THIS BOOK IN LESS THAN 2 DAY WELL I REALLY IN JOY THE STORY ALOT THE GUY WHO WAS A MILLONAIRE IN THE BOOK HELET EVERY ONE BELIVE THAT THE MONEY HE NEED FOR WORK WAS FOR THE HOUSE HE HAD I LIKE THE WAY THE PEOPLE IN THE BOOK REACTE D TO EACH OTHERAND THEY ARE CLOSE NEET GROUP THAT WAS GREAT BOOK NORA
I really enjoyed this story. There were some mixed reviews so it got me a little nervous. I thought Vance was super sexy and sweet. I loved how playful Vance and Shane were. I felt the ending was a little rushed but I guess once you get the HEA why drag it out huh? I think this was my first Nora Roberts book and i was really pleased with it. Can’t wait to read more.
It's not very Christmasy. Pretty weak on the part of the Silhouette editors to release this as a part of Nora Roberts' hardback Christmas series. But whatevs.It's Nora Roberts, and it's a solid, sweet story. Some of the stuff in the book made me shake my head and go "no way" so it wasn't completely believable, however it was enjoyable.And fast. I read it in a couple of hours.
