https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10866624-unspoken
I have a scale for YA books I read, since I’ve read so many. It looks something like this.-I hope this book dies. Right now. And takes a 100km radius with it just to be sure.-Terrible book-Not my thing-Meh-Yeah that was okay-Hmmm. Interesting-I was pleasantly surprised-Yeah I liked that-That was a great book-Wow I loved that book!-FIZZJERBLEDEEGOOK! That was Freaking AMAZEBALLS!-I will read that book againAllow me to lay down some perspective. At this moment I have no fewer than sixty-three ARCs
It earned them hard and I need the next one NOW.**Original Prereview below**So I opened the book and by page five I was like:And we met Kami and Angela and Ash and Jared and Holy and I was like:Then I saw that there was a love triangle and for a minute I was like:But not even two pages later I was just like:Then the mystery revved up and I was like:And then the intrigue and danger and relationships started to evolve and I was like:And every time Kami said something hilarious I was like:So basically how I feel about this book is that if I had a choice between reading the sequel and a threesome with:Then I would probably choose Unspoken #2.
Take this quiz to learn if your brain would appreciate this read.1. When you hear the word ‘‘love-triangle,’’ you:(a) Scream at the top of your lungs and rush out the room, pushing anyone standing in your way.(b) Raise an eyebrow.2. On a Friday night, you’d rather:(a) Talk to your crush on the telephone.(b) Investigate a potential murder scene.3. You often dream about:(a) Talking animals chasing you to the edge of a cliff.(b) Being connected to someone beyond humanly possible.4. If your best fri
When you hear the word ‘‘love-triangle,’’ you:(a)	Scream at the top of your lungs and rush out the room, pushing anyone standing in your way.(b)	Raise an eyebrow.2.
On a Friday night, you’d rather:(a)	Talk to your crush on the telephone.(b)	Investigate a potential murder scene.3.
You often dream about:(a)	Talking animals chasing you to the edge of a cliff.(b)	Being connected to someone beyond humanly possible.4.
5.	Family, to you, is:(a)	Just another word in the English language.(b)	The pillar of this earth.6.
But somehow, along the way, something went wrong.Unspoken, you were true.
If only your scene transitions were a little more smoother, perhaps I could have understood how much time had passed or when the character PoV had changed.
That mystery could have been solved halfway through the story if only the characters weren't so wrapped up in concealing their feelings.
Not once did I feel connected to them in any way and countless times I paused to consider the possibilities of why.
Why did Kami want to rid herself of Jared after she mentions how much she values their special relationship.
This book, oh my god, th-th-thi...WARNING: You may need a lifeboat to stay adrift in the oceans of adoration below!There are simply no words to describe the mountain of awesome that is Sarah Rees Brennan.
Nice ass.”“I think I want that on my tombstone,” Kami said.
“Remember my last wishes, if I get involved in a tragic accident with a fruit cart before I can put it in writing."“A leather jacket,” Kami said as he shrugged into it.
“Aren’t you trying a little too hard to play into certain bad boy clichés?”“Nah,” said Jared.
You wouldn’t think I was a bad boy if I was wearing a pink leather jacket.”“That’s true,” Kami said.
It's my baby, so nobody should listen to what I think! I'm just like, oh, it should go to Cambridge and it has the prettiest hair!
"Listen to me. I don’t know what’s going on. I don’t know what any of this means. But I know this much. It doesn’t matter. You’re not one of them. You never were. You’re not theirs. You’re mine."•Writing: bad. Like really bad.•Plot: what plot?•Characters: what characters? You mean there were actual people in here? Shocking.There is really nothing more to say.
Usually when we have these stories of the quirky girls that are always on the outside (in Kami’s case, everyone thinks she’s more than a bit nuts for those times when she’s lost in her head talking to her imaginary friend, Jared), they’re either devoid of friends, or what friends they had disappear from the text as soon as romantic possibilities come into play.
It’s unhealthy, but my girl Kami is level headed enough to see this even through the cloud of Jared’s dependence and adoration, and I love her for her braveness.The struggle of a relationship that is both symbiotic and parasitic makes Unspoken shine, and places an unexpected amount of emotional depth under a story that is exciting, harrowing, and fun.
Edit: 11/2/12  So after reading this snippet from the sequel I will definitely not (though I doubt I would have anyway) be raising this rating to two stars. You know what I imagine closes out that scene? These are the days of our lives... Is this a soap opera or a book, guys? Guess the relationship melodrama keeps on keeping on in book two.-------------------------------------------------------------Unspoken really isn't as bad as some of the other one star YA books I've read this year - The Bo
This was a story we've heard many times before - trying to pretend it was the opposite of that thing - instead of just being honest about what it was.Kami Glass (Malese Jow in my mind) is quick to let us know that she's not like those girls.
I like SRB, and based on reading her blog alone, I know she didn't mean to promote a bad boy type as an acceptable love interest.
Why spend so much time on romantic melodrama that you don't allow your interesting side characters to develop beyond being perky and loving napping?This whole story feels like something I've read before.
Brennan balances between Kami and Jared the inevitable confusion and frustrations that come with being mentally and emotionally invaded and the the genuine affection, formed, reinforced, and reciprocated time and time again since the day they were born.
I have no clue what that would feel like, to be able to read someone else's mind and have them read mine; the bombardment and lack of privacy; the severe complications that could erupt from a single, careless thought slipping through one mind into the other.
But in Kami we trust: that she will always do what she feels is right.
It does start out with a very decent pace, but I found the first three quarters of the book is spent with Kami while she goes around gathering clues to find a killer, yet she's too occupied with her complicated feelings towards Jared, sometimes Ash, to focus on finding answers.
The off-putting dialogue, or maybe their bland personalities, halted me from developing any sort of connection with them.With a British setting, we get interactions that are a little different than what you would expect in North America - or at least I was told lots of it were a part of the British culture.
Kami has an awkward personality, she talks very formally at times, making bizarre comments with strange conversational shifts that comes off as unnatural.
Brennan makes it so easy for us to understand Jared, even from Kami's perspective, that we sympathize with and love him as our tragic hero with all our heart.Yet, with all these wonderful characters, Unspoken shines because of the connection between Jared and Kami.
It seems obvious that anyone who knows each other as well as these two should be able to see the inner beauty of another person, but the complicated (and blurred!) lines between friendship and romance between Kami and Jared were remarkably well-written.
Unspoken is another must-read of 2012 and Brennan has, yet again, managed to take me utterly by surprise.
Kami also says the right things about not wanting a possessive boyfriend and needing independence, but in the end actions speak louder than words.
And even though his behaviors never change (he's possessive, overprotective, and jealous to the very end), she falls head over heels in love with him.
I wish the ending had been less abrupt (view spoiler)[and I also wish the Jared/Kami angst had been left out (hide spoiler)].The book gets an extra star for effort, but honestly, I didn't enjoy reading this one.
I especially loved the part where she fell in the well, and Jared went to rescue her(I laughed soooo soooooooooo much):
His sadness and closing to the world are especially shown in The Spring Before I Met You, where the only person who would talk to him was his imaginary friend Kami.
There was scene when his family went to dance in the rain, and he started to lose it, while Kami tried to give him support; I loved how she was always there for him, always taking his side.
I loved that moment, and i think it was one of the best in the book.
This is the book for all of you who still have a little piece of a child left in your soul.
Kami Glass - yes, I liked her from the first page when I saw her name - is a strong girl, a little bit strange but in a good way, and she knows what she wants.
Unspoken is completely different from any book you've read.
But ending...
My God, ending!
I wanted to smash my Kindle out of spite to the goddess of writen word - how dare she to torture me this way?
4.5 SO ADDICTING! And the main character is hilarious
But when the mysterious Lynburn family return one of the teenage boys seems very familiar to Kami.
Kami soon finds that her best friend that she's always had in her head is really Jared Lynburn.
When an attempt is made on Kami's life Jared quickly proves that he does know all of Kami's thoughts.
Now Kami is determined to discover who was behind the attempt and how and why she seem to be connected to the mysterious Jared Lynburn.Unspoken by Sarah Rees Brennan is the first book in the Lynburn Legacy series.
i picked this book up cause the concept was too interesting & different.Kami can hear a voice in her her head & talk to someonelse all her life in her mind.
like is this person for real or imaginary.
the solidity to rely on, for him has always been kami, as she is the comforting & supporting voice in his head.
no-one seem care about him except for the voice in his head.
he did not deserve such family.
The struggle between Kami & Jared, from being voice in head to real people is captured beautifully.
There’s one more thing you need to know about Kami: she’s grown up with an imaginary friend (or so she thinks), Jared.
When the Lynburn boys show up in school, Kami finds out that Jared is not an imaginary friend at all, but a real live flesh and blood boy.
Even her mother begs her to stay away from Jared, but Kami knows she can’t.
Kami can’t help but be tentative and frightened of Jared, because he knows so many of her inner thoughts and secrets.
Kami’s father and little brothers, Ten, who is ten, and seven year-old, Tomo, also bring a lot of random and silly humor to the story.
While the rush of overly witty, pithy banter rolling from the protagonist's lips can be a tad much at times, the author molds a likable and independent heroine.For as long as seventeen year old Kami Glass can remember, two things have been true of her life in the small town of Sorry-in-the-Vale: the townsfolk have whispered about the powerful Lynburn family, and Kami has talked to a boy named Jared in her head.
When the Lynburns return to Sorry-in-the-Vale after a seventeen-year absence, the townsfolk are spooked, but Kami is intrigued.
It kind of has the feel to it of Beautiful Creatures — small town, fantastic cast, feared magical family, and rich gothic mystery — except I liked this much, much more!
People look at them strangely for stopping randomly to laugh at inner conversations, but Kami and Jared don't care.
Kami (witty teenage journalist extraordinaire) is strange and she knows it.
Brilliantly witty and fantastically strange, Unspoken is an amazing novel that brings everything we've been looking for in YA without even knowing it!
With a hilarious cast, smile-inducing dialogue, and a mystery that turns pages on its own, this book is sure to be a stunner!
YES YES YES YES Y’HES!Kami Glass is an ambitious wanna be journalist who is always looking for scandal and wanting to uncover the towns darkest secrets.
As previously said Kami has had an imaginary friend Jared since she was born.
It took me a while to actually enjoy reading this book, slow starter however it quickly picked up towards the end and the cliffhanger which was just cruel will have you wanting more!NOTE: Yes this may be 3 stars but I’m already half way through Untold and it is without a doubt 10 times better.
In Sorry-in-the-Vale, England, Kami has an Issue--she is a teenager who still talks with her invisible friend.
Then the town's "ruling family" returns to the area, complete with teenaged cousins.
Kami finds herself attracted to handsome Ash, but her world rocks when she meets brooding, reclusive cousin Jared.
He is her invisible friend, and he is just as rattled to learn his own invisible friend is all too real.
Interfering adults and a series of murders add notes of contemporary fiction and suspense fiction as well.
It's a wild ride in a truly unique setting that's all Brennan's own.
Seriously? That's how the book ends!? Sarah Rees Brennan you are a cruel, cruel mistress. You lure your readers into a false sense of security with your witty banter and the sunshiny disposition of your heroine and then you dump ice water on their heads. NOT NICE.
Sarah Rees Brennan is the devil.
I love Gothic books. Hands down my favorite type of book to read. This book was a great Gothic read. The atmosphere, spooky house, and creepy woods were all on point. At times Kami got on my nerves. Her trying to joke or lighten a moment would be a mood breaker and disrupt the flow of the story. Set that aside, the book was great. The plot moved well and the characters likable. I will definitely be reading the next on the series.
You know I don’t like people.”Kami's dad, Jon who is just O.o :“Stay away from him.
So when these two finally see each other in the flesh, the shock is of epic proportions...Their reaction to one another felt too viscerally violent, at least to me it did...They've known each other forever, and all of a sudden they can't even stand to touch one another (well, one of them..).There was one thing I would have liked if it had been sorted out: (view spoiler)[ Who threw Kami down the well?
What a fun, cute book. Although I think the magical world still needs some fleshing out (I trust that will happen in book two), I really loved the characters, and even the Kami/Jared relationship. It's very rare for me to appreciate romance in most YAs, so it's all the better to discover a great one here between two well-developed characters. I look forward to the next one.
This was great, if somewhat predictable. The angsty-ness felt a little pushed on me when otherwise the feeling of the book was mysterious with an a dash of wit. In saying that though, I think the angsty-ness was well thought-out. Soooooooooo.Angela is me.
When the Lynburns, a mysterious family that is more or less the lords of the Vale, return, one of the younger boys turns out not to be Jared - the boy Kami has talked to all her life, and who is, in fact, very taken with her.
We have a protagonist without a father, and who has a very strained relationship with his (possibly crazy), detached mother.And then there is Jared and Kami's connection, which actually runs deeper than sharing a few thoughts.
Kami and Jared have something very similar, though it has been going on for much longer.That leads me to the next gripe I have.
I have to say Sarah Rees Brennan is exceptional at writing people who you instantly feel something towards (I don’t say love because with a certain bad boy *cough*Jared*cough* I was constantly going back and forth between wanting to punch and kiss him).Every character is so unique with their own personality quirks and my favourite parts in the book were scenes with many together because the dynamics are brilliant, and often hilarious!
With its supernatural mystery, eclectic cast of characters and entertaining dialogue it was my perfect read – maybe it will be yours too!Posted on: http://enchantedbyya.blogspot.co.uk
