https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/897566.Raggedy_Andy_Stories
So when he is ready to go home for the day, he sets the two dolls up on his desk and....well, I am getting misty so I will quote:Daddy then took the rubber band and placed it around Raggedy Ann's right hand, and around Raggedy Andy's right hand, so that when he had it fixed properly they sat and held each other's hands.Daddy knew they would wish to tell each other all the wonderful things that had happened to them since they had parted more than fifty years before.So, locking his studio door, Daddy left the two old rag dolls looking into each other's eyes.The next morning, when Daddy unlocked his door and looked at his desk, he saw that Raggedy Andy had fallen over so that he lay with his head in the bend of Raggedy Ann's arm.
This book makes me shudder. Johnny Gruelle is so very syrupy that it makes me want to gag but my girls like the stories. And listening to the book did encourage them to get out and play with the Raggedy Dolls my Mom made for them.
I started reading Raggedy Ann to my daughter months ago. We eventually used it for shared reading time, but today she finished the last Raggedy Andy story all by herself. We had good times with both these books and I know they've made a lasting impression on my daughter. The illustrations were just as sweet as the stories. If you've never read Raggedy Ann and Andy, these are the books to start with. I'm a little sad she'll be reading the longer stories without me.
The girls and I agree that Raggedy Andy isn't quite as wonderful as Raggedy Ann, but sharing this book was a sweet experience for all of us and a nostalgic one, for me.
I am reading this with my two youngest (8 and 5)...and their older brothers keep sneaking over to listen.One of the aunts made a Raggedy Andy doll for the 5-year-old so we got some books to learn about him.
So far, the boys love them and ask for more than 2 stories a day.
Who knew Raggedy Andy would be so full of suspense?March 27 - They pulled the French doll's head off, to get all the sticky sugar out.
I wish I had read this with my older boys before they got too big to cuddle with me.
Never enough Raggedy Ann and Andy. My favorite is Raggedy Andy's Taffy Pull. The idea of Raggedy Andy leading all the dollies in making taffy and buttering their hands to keep them from getting sticky? Too much. After that: Doctor Raggedy Andy. Lesson learned: don't pour brown sugar and water "medicine" down the French Dolly's mouth because it might make her blinking eyes stick shut. Hahahaha!
Read this at work (I work in a child care program) and found it interesting. Although it is a children's book, it is much longer than one would expect and with very little pictures. The chapters are long and detailed, and the illustrations it does have are very vibrant and colourful. What I thought was neat about this book was that it is a classic from 1920 and the reader gets a first-hand glimpse of what childhood was like in the United States in the early 1920's. Not bad!
There is wisdom in this children's story book. Why do as adults we feel it frivolous to occasionally read a child's book? We can gain wisdom. My favorite quote from this one is "They who are the most unselfish are the ones who gain the greatest joy; because they give happiness to others." - Johnny Gruelle
These are cute and sweet. It's a perfect book for a child who likes some pictures but a more involved story. I can't say any one story stood out or any one character, but they are stories full of kindness and goodness which is what little ears love to hear.
I read and re-read this book as a young girl. It occurred to me I'd not read them in a very long time, so I picked them up for a re-visit. What a delightful group of stories.
This wasn't as cute as the Raggedy Ann book, but still pretty darn cute.
by Johnny GruelleFirst published in 1918....this book is a reproduction with original sketches...."totally delightful"
I read this to my daughter and might have given it two stars, but she liked it...and that was the purpose of reading it. I can see the influence this book had on movie Toy Story.
Aaron (6) really liked this one! Much more than expected! Off to read Raggedy Ann Stories next
