https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/625956.Hamlet_Revenge_
This is the second Inspector Appleby book, following on from, “Death at the President’s Lodging.” This mystery was published in 1937 and has a classic, Golden Age setting, with much of the action taking place in a country house, where there is a production of “Hamlet,” taking place.
Then, during the performance, there is a cry of help and a pistol shot…A very distinguished guest has been killed and Inspector Appleby is sent to investigate.
Michael Innes writes very dense plots, which really involve a lot of complex themes.
If you imagine that Golden Age crime novels involve country house parties, a few aristocratic guests and a simple plot, you are very wrong.
Innes takes his time setting the stage, introducing us to (most of) the cast of characters in what is essentially an English country house murder mystery with a twist, as Scamnum Court is closer to a castle than a house and the Duke and Duchess of Horton have over 200 house guests (with associated servants).
The pace picks up considerably once the murder occurs (during an amateur performance of Hamlet), and Inspector Appleby is sent to investigate by none other than the Prime Minister himself as there is the possibility of espionage.
While there’s a reasonable story buried in this book, my summary word is ‘indulgent’.
It reads as if the author is playing a lengthy parlour game with a small group of friends and letting the narrative emerge from the game.
The lengthy first chapter, setting the scene appears designed to eliminate readers without a textual interest in Shakespeare’s plays.
I persevered, mainly because I wanted to see if Appleby rescued the book.Partially he did.
In the end I didn’t care - in my view a bad outcome for an author to achieve.Innes can write - Appleby is testimony to that.
A wealthy duchess has decided to host a large-scale house party during which a semi-amateur performance of Hamlet will be produced.
But when a death occurs, it’s time for Scotland Yard’s most promising (and most socially acceptable) detective to be summoned to the scene.This is a house party mystery with a strong academic undertone.
There is a plethora of characters (perhaps a few too many), and there’s a sufficiency of police procedure.
I knocked off a star (or perhaps part of a star) for the fact that the final solution seemed to me the least plausible among the possibilities.
As with all detective novels, the solution to the central puzzle of "Hamlet, Revenge" is somewhat arbitrary, the mystery itself merely providing a context for the author to show off his ingenious plotting.
Unlike most detective novels, "Hamlet, Revenge" offers character portraits so complex and sharply observed that the mystery becomes secondary to the thrill of discovery of a world much more sophisticated and witty than everyday reality.
Occasionally offending with anachronistic colonialisms and ultimately disappointing in its plot because of its limited scope, "Hamlet, Revenge" nevertheless rewards our attention with line by line subtlety and sharpness that few mainstream literary novels ever approach.
(When an entire conversation occurs in which you can't parse the meaning of a single sentence, something has gone wrong.) The obscene number of suspects also makes this a tough read, even for a complex murder mystery, and I felt as if this book was almost a private joke for Innes and a few stuffy, well-educated friends to pore over.The puzzle is certainly ingenious, and as a Shakespeare nut I highly enjoyed the diverse and complex thoughts, discussions, parodies and references to the Bard.
was first published in 1937, and while it conforms to the conventions of the Golden Age crime novel, with a series of murders committed during a weekend house party in an isolated country home, the concept seems subverted through exaggeration.
And then the first murder, committed during an amateur staging of the play Hamlet, at the moment when Hamlet runs a sword through Polonius, concealed behind a curtain in the Queen's room.
The actor playing Polonius is shot, so that the stage and backstage areas define a contained space that limits the possible suspects.
But Hamlet is staged with an extensive cast and so 31 suspects remain.
“Marry, this is miching mallecho; it means mischief.” – Shakespeare.And so it was.
And Inspector Appleby arrives to find a man dead on the stage of a private production of Hamlet.
What does it mean?
Why in those circumstances.
Is it spies or a very private sort of revenge?I loved this book.
It starts slow, and I wish I’d re-read Hamlet before hand, but when Appleby arrives en scene, the book becomes compelling.This is my sort of mystery.
Very cerebral, very puzzle driven, a smart, calculating, inventive bad guy, where the clues are scarce on the ground and the only way to solve it is by deep thinking.Definitely continuing this series!
Published in 1937, this is the second in Michael Innes' series of detective novels featuring Inspector John Appleby.
After a slightly overwhelming start (due to the number of characters and the detailed background information on Scamnum Court), once Appleby arrives on the scene and begins his inquiries the pace picks up and the story becomes quite gripping.
There seems to be a previous friendship between the characters of Appleby and Gott, whom I have found out also appears in the first book in the series which I haven’t read yet; I don’t know whether he is in any of the others.
It is chock full of literary quotations and allusions, intellectual characters, a convoluted plot and takes a few mocking swipes at detective fiction which seems to be regarded as a bit lowbrow and embarrassing.
I didn't realise what I was in for when I picked this novel to read as I was expecting a Golden Age police procedural so I found the detached style of writing extremely difficult to connect with and quite boring - it takes 25% of the novel to set the scene leading up to the murder and even then the investigation is full of discussion about the psychology of the crime (yawn).
It is, like all Innes's plots, dense and intricate, and depends upon minutiae of sightlines in a 16th-Century theatre, a pretty detailed knowledge of Hamlet and so on.
I rather like this, and Innes's enjoyable prose and dry wit add to the pleasure – including one wonderfully amusing and memorable, if wholly absurd, escape from pursuit in a formal garden.This isn't a light read and does require more intellectual engagement than many Golden Age detective novels, but it's still very rewarding and is regarded by many as a classic of the genre.
When the Lord Chancellor is murdered during the play enemy action is suspected and Appleby is sent with all haste to investigate the crime.With a huge cast of suspects this crime novel threatens to become completely unwieldy but fortunately the author manages to stay just on the right side of the line.
I enjoyed the background of the performance of Hamlet as it was interesting to renew my acquaintance with the play.
When the Lord Chancellor of England is killed during an amateur performance of Hamlet, John Appleby must first determine whether a confidential document has been stolen before he can begin to investigate the murder. This novel, set in pre-World War II England, is totally delightful (if not entirely politically correct by today's standards) and a good introduction to Appleby's crime solving abilities.
One of the earliest and best (Sir) John Appleby detective novels (1937). A murder during an amateur Hamlet at a country house.
Very interesting writing style but wordy and flowery with a great deal of repetition. The interaction between the two main characters is great. The plot is convoluted and the solution is a bit unsatisfactory. The use of the play Hamlet is interesting. Enjoyable read but takes more time and thought than most 'golden age' mysteries.
I haven't read it for years, but I've kept it a long time, so I decided to re-read it before it was consigned to the thinning-out pile. And I still like it a lot. It's a real period piece now, and I wish I'd re-read Hamlet before I started it, but it's still a really good country house murder with plot twists. I love the language and the hundreds of literary references scattered throughout, and even though I didn't recognise them all there was enough pace to keep me turning the page.
A daring technical experiment: multiple approaches to detecting applied to the same *massively complex* problem, the various (plausible) scenarios that they come up with, and the insight into whether or not errors matter--and in whose favor.This isn't really a novel so much as it is a bunch of literary references used to spice up a HOW TO WRITE MYSTERIES guide. A mystery writer's mystery :)
One of the great literate inter-war thrillers. 4R2C2E, often find myself chanting "bunchy cushiony bunch" at times of stress or lightheadedness. A perfect Evelyn Waugh-ish house party, a production of Hamlet, a spy story, and the greatest of all English C20 detectives, John Appleby.
At the vast Seamnum Court, an amateur performance of Hamlet with a cast of scholars, politicians, aristocrats, bohemians and one singular actor is being staged.
But a glittering performance is marred, first by odd threats quoting Shakespeare, then by the murder of the Duke of Horton.
Was the murder for personal reasons, or was he killed for the document?
The suspects are numerous.Hamlet, Revenge is a bit slow going at times, but it is exceedingly well crafted.
Originally published before 1940, it stands the test of time quite well.4 / 5I received a copy of Hamlet, Revenge from the publisher and Netgalley.com in exchange for an honest review.--Crittermom

An interesting example of the country house/house party murder; it's an embarrassment of riches for potential killers (be prepared to do some heavy lifting in the first few chapters to get all your players clear) down to a manor home for a clear purpose with plenty of intricate relations between the main characters .
And, perhaps, Mr. Innes goes one side road too many with regard to Shakespeare, Hamlet, and academia in general?
A strong recommend.
I received an ecopy from the publishers and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
Seems I'm in the minority here, but this book just didn't appeal to me.
I admit I had no idea who was the murderer, but by that time I had given up caring.
I have read the first book in the series and that introduced Appleby to me, who I quite liked , even though he did seem to be going round in circles in that , but I find in this one , he was doing it again, and every thing kept being repeated.I may well read another in the series , but doubt if it will be for a long time
My first read of Michael Innes, having been recommended as ome of the best British mystery books. I certainly enjoyed it, the setting, the literary connection, and also several of the characters- Appleby does not seem to be the main character, as several others appear to have just as much claim to the spotlight in this book. Unlike some other books of the genre, I enjoyed how it describes the way different deductions are the result of different premises.To me, it was as good as it had been advertised
The whole first section will bore you unless you're a true Shakespeare aficionado although it does set the stage. The second part dives into solving the mystery. The third part is not what it seems and the Epilogue will probably surprise you.
The combination of Hamlet and a murder mystery worked well, with Innes weaving the two threads together very skilfully. The theatrical element brought something new to the traditional country house setting, and worked well as a means of bringing a wide range of intriguing characters together.
An English country-house murder mystery. Keeps you guessing until the end.This book was first published in 1937, so I didn't catch all the cultural references that the author sprinkled throughout the story. That didn't effect my enjoyment of this book.
Una novela negra de ritmo lento y pausado. Reseña pormenorizada: https://nouw.com/cwidmann/michael-inn...
A little too mannered, even for me.
Originally published on my blog here in June 1998.This is a much earlier Appleby novel than the two Michael Innes books I had read previously, and much more in the detective fiction mould than the thriller mould of Operation Pax. In fact, the background to Hamlet, Revenge!
The murderer has also been rather cheeky, by sending warning messages in apparently easily traced ways, and by taking apparently reckless risks.I enjoyed John Appleby's unravelling of the plot greatly, and will be reading more to fill in his career from this early novel to the late ones like Silence Observed.
maybe I read this at the wrong time.
Is "literary mystery" a genre?
Because that is what this book felt like, meaning it had more to it than just the mystery.
There were also more characters/suspects than usually in mysteries which made the story complicated.
And no, I didn't figure it out.A big part of the story was the play during which the murder happened, Hamlet, and also the few days of preparations before that.
Maybe too big for me at this time.
I think it's well written and better than an average mystery novel, but I felt I couldn't appreciate it enough while reading it.
