https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54822.Leaving_Cheyenne
Larry McMurtry grew up among ranchers and cowboys, and his familiarity with this rural world makes his early novels set in and around Thalia, Texas, genuinely alive with rich detail and believable characters.
The insights into characters and the observance of their behavior make them come alive on the page, and you simply enjoy the portrayals of them, their values, beliefs, and experiences.Part I of this novel is told from the point of view of Gideon, a rancher's son, about 20 years old, around the year 1920.
_leaving cheyenne_ doesn't beg a rigorous academic analysis, and having just finished it, i'm not in
Gideon Fry loves Molly, but so does his best friend Johnny McCloud.
Molly loves them both but marries someone else.
He and Gideon have been best friends since they were kids.
Molly loves men, loves sex, yet is stuck on her drunk of a father's farm taking care of him.The story follow these three from birth into their sixties and each has a turn at telling how their lives intertwined.
The stories of these three lives in the first half of the 20th century in north Texas, where the work and the heat and the wind and the dust were continuous, where electricity and cars came late, happen in a place where a person could live pretty much by his or her own inclinations.
Larry McMurtry is one of my favourite authors. Leaving Cheyenne did not disappoint. This one of McMurtry's earlier works, before he wrote the wonderful  Lonesome Dove, which I count among my all-time favourite novels. In fact, Gid and Johnny could be thought of as earlier, less fleshed out versions of Gus and Call. This book is so many things-a coming of age story, an unusual love triangle and romance, and a close-up look at the friendship between two very different men. Gid and Johnny share a g
Lonesome Dove, which I count among my all-time favourite novels.
In fact, Gid and Johnny could be thought of as earlier, less fleshed out versions of Gus and Call.
Gid and Johnny share a great love of nature, the Texan wilderness, and a dislike for non-country living and culture, but frequently disagree as to how each should live his life.
I finished this book in one day, and reluctantly turned the last few pages, guessing how it would end- with a lump in my throat and a sadness that this was one more McMurtry piece that I would never enjoy for the first time again.
This story is a home run for readers that like character development and an authentic storyline. McMurtry takes common occurrences and weaves a tale of uncommon interest.
I've read everything he's written since Lonesome Dove and have now gone back to read some of his earlier work.
As one might expect, he has refined his craft as he's gone along.
Don't get me wrong, this book was good, but it did not have the breadth of scope of much of his later work.
Actually, it is easy to see this book as a presurser to Lonesome Dove in some respects.
The main male characters, Gid and Johnny can easily be seen as prototypes for Woodrow and Gus and Molly as an amalgam of the female characters in the later book.
I read this the first time when I was 25, in a room with no furniture, straight through.
I bawled like a baby.
Now, 32 years later, it still makes me cry.
But at 25, I had no idea how well McMurtry captures the nostalgia we age into, as well as how much of our young selves are still there within us.
I can see my friends and husband and myself back at 20 as clearly as Johnny pictures Mary on the last page.
I've read this probably 5 times over the years, but I can't read it too much because, ouch!
I never guessed I would be such a fan of Larry McMurtry books. The characters are robust and charming and old Texas is a marvelous place for a plot.
I read this at least once a year. It may be my favorite book. Written in 3 sections, each from one of the main character's viewpoints, the story is original and heartbreaking just like life.
McMurtry writes good characters, good dialog, and interesting stories. Forty years of a texas triangle between Gideon, Molly, and Johnny.
I liked the fact that it spanned sixty years giving each character a voice over a 20 year time span, hard life to be a rancher.
McMurtry's first novel, prefiguring the rest of his work. Wonderfully done, with his trademark understanding of the ways of women, and the complicated friendships between men, legacies of fathers and sons...
There are three sections to the novel, and each is told from the point of view of each of the three main characters.
Each section is at a different point in time, so the novel actually ends up encompassing the lifetimes of these three characters.The first section, told from the point of view of one of the men, was fun but a little silly.
Told from the point of view of the female character, this section redefines what's happened so far in an intriguing, almost philosophical way.
This is a fine book and one that I must have been quite daring in its day (it was first published in 1962).
It follows three main characters - Gid, Molly, and Johnny.
Each claim a portion of the narrative in the book's three sections.
McMurtry breathes life into his characters and the trials of ranch life and life in general, following the characters from vibrant youth to aching old age.
I suspect this is a book that will stay with me for a long time.
Definitely a worthwhile read.
I have a few other McMurtry novels on my to-read shelf.
What an amazing story.....I've never read a "western" tour of book before and I'm glad this was my first one.
I loved the characters in it so much I just couldn't quit reading it.
I read it in just say could of days.
What an amazing life these people had and the live that was shared between them was do during it leapt right of the pages at you.
I loved this book I truly did.
Nite I'm just wondering if any other McMurtry books will live up to this one out not.
Larry McMurtry's books are unique. I NEVER thought I'd be one to enjoy a western until I first read Lonesome Dove. That is still my favorite, but I enjoyed this more modern 'western', too. McMurtry's characters are extremely well-drawn and his dialogue addictive. I start talking like a cowboy myself with 3 pages! As far as the PLOT of Leaving Cheyenne...well.. I wish there were actually more of it. A little suspense might be good as well, but the characters and their relationships carry the book - regardless. I was there.
this book leaves me with no desire to read lonesome dove, even though heaps of folks think it is one of the best books ever. i think it is because i do not like mcmurtry's style; what some people regard as a lack of sentimentality i think of as being emotionally disengaged. i spent most of the novel being perplexed by the main characters' motivations, rendering me completely unable to relate to them in any meaningful way. which is probably why i just didn't care about the characters, or for the book at all.
I guess I'm a sucker for books like this, books that take me through the characters' lives and leave me happy to have made their acquaintances.
I hate it that they don't get everything they deserve, and wish it could have turned out better for them.
Their losses, though, are my gain.
This one's a complicated love story - all three characters love one another, even the two men - and, I guess, a nice evocation of Texas life in the twentieth century.I think it's in a class with Wallace Stegner's Angle of Repose, which makes it one of my all-time favorites.
A western love story set in and around Archer County, Texas, Leaving Cheyenne is beautifully narrated by three members of a lifelong love triangle. It is a love story in three dimensions: romantic, plutonic and love of place. The language, characters and story ring achingly true. Gid, Molly and Johnny’s story is worth reading for almost any reader. Whether you like romance, westerns, Texas literature or literary fiction you will enjoy this book, as it excels in all these genres.
This was recommended to me by a dear 'book friend' as one of her all-time favorites. I was put off at the beginning, thinking 'oh dear - I'm not really into cowboy books', but the sweetness of the story and the characters soon won me over and I thoroughly enjoyed it. It's the story of three friends - two men and a woman - and how that friendship overcomes all the adversity and twists that life throws at us - love, work, and finding our inner selves.
Three livesBeautifully unfolding tale of two flawed cowboys, different as rock and water, and the equally flawed woman who loves them both. It is vintage McMurtry: deceptively simple storytelling and simply wonderful characters who can break each others' hearts -- and the reader's. I miss them already. (Any McMurtry fan will see the seeds of Woodrow and Gus in Gid and Johnny.)
This was an audiobook, read by a woman and two cowboys. I'm a sucker for cowboys. Great book about friends, what we do for them and to them.
My book club enjoyed the book, but I felt depressed by the bad choices the main female character made!
If it’s a sad waning-days-of-the-cowboy story you want, you won’t do better than Larry McMurtry. And if you grew up among people just like his characters, as I did, it’s just unbearably poignant.
Gid, our opening narrator, is best friends with Johnny and both of them, in categorically different ways, love Molly, who also loves them in different ways.
Gid begins by focusing on the early parts of the novel taking place around 1925, Molly picks up later for a section in 1940s, and Johnny finishes out in the novel’s contemporary (1960s).
This jump in time and voice allows for multiple facets of the story to be discussed as well helping to understand how this friendship and love triangle, in which both boys sleep with and father children with Molly comes about.
The author develops each character through recollections of major events, intimacies and their mutual friendship.The perspective then changes to Molly about 20 years later.
Throughout, Johnny and Gid have competed, genially but without success, for primacy in Mollly's affections.
So it is a book of three intimate friendships - Gid and Molly, Molly and Johnny, and Johnny and Gid - shaped initially by the youthful sexual tension that is mostly resolved by the passing of time and genuine love.This review does not do credit to a wonderful book.
The author crafts the vernacular of the characters into poetry.
The description called it a coming-of-age story, and I guess it was ...
They just grew up, lived their pretty ordinary lives, then died.The first part of the book is told from Gideon's point of view and it was mildly entertaining.
The second part is told from Molly's point of view and the book almost completely lost me here.
The third part is told by Johnny, and it was actually my favorite part, though I think that had to do more with the narrator than the story.The book isn't really a Western, either.
You can already feel the first hints of the characters of lonesome Dove in this book.
Where Lonesome Dove hit the perfect balance between brutality and the romanticism of the west, and the streets of Laredo leaned a bit to far towards nihilism and brutality.
This story has a lot more melancholia and romanticism of the good old days then those two stories.But what makes McMurtry such a good writer is the beautiful dialogue that not only sounds great, but also invokes a feeling of authenticity.
You feel like you can actually hear two old cowboys and lifelong friends talking when you read this.
I like this story enough that I’d want to read it again, which is pretty rare for me.
It’s told in three parts, one each from the perspective of Gid, Molly, and Johnny.
It starts off kind of slowly with Gid’s perspective.
The information about them when they’re younger and establishing their dynamic as a trio is important, and I love Gid, but somehow I got a much better feel for him and his personality from the other two’s perspectives.
I guess the book feels a little off-kitler for me just because I went into it expecting some polyamory but their relationship wasn’t a perfect triangle.

