https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/397643.Daughter_of_Earth
Daughter of Earth is a can't-put-down story of American life for a woman at the turn of the Twentieth Century.
Like Grapes of Wrath, it is both a period piece, and a tale that tells us something of humanity we grow from hearing.
I though of my grandmother's life in farming & mining communities in the developing West as Agnes recounts the years of her childhood and upbringing.
This book is also a look at Women's Rights, and the beginning of what Agnes Smedley is mostly known for, her commitment to human rights and her involvement in social Revolutions.
Agnes Smedley, (February 23, 1892 – 6 May 1950) was an American journalist and writer known for her chronicling of the Chinese revolution. The book focus is on her time in China.She embraced and advocated various issues including women's rights, Indian independence, birth control, and China's Communist Revolution. Smedley authored eight books; she wrote articles in many periodicals such as Asia, The New Republic, Nation, Vogue, and Life. A website on Smedley states, "Influenced by her impoverished childhood Agnes Smedley was an advocate for women, children, peasants and liberation for the oppressed."
However, when it is "the Establishment" who decides if you get to work, well, then you think about things a little bit differently.Reading Smedley's words, one point she raises over and over and over again is her will to be able to work for her own living, even when it is very unacceptable to do so (and there aren't a lot of career options open to her -- at some points she is even railing that she would prefer prostitution to marriage...can you see why this would not play well in a conservative crowd, especially when a lot of me agrees with her position?).
The book tells the story of a young girl growing up very poor in America at the turn of the century.
The main character, Marie, was horrified by the way women were treated in her life and community.
When reading Agnes Smedley’s report of life in China during the Second World War and the civil war, I was always amazed at what she was able to endure and how strongly she was able to sympathise with the suffering around her.
Having read this book I think I start to realise that there really wasn’t that much of a difference between her lives.
Another "Protest Novels" gem. Wow. My first real introduction to Socialism. I remember reading a passage out loud and bringing myself to uncontrollable tears. Beautifully written, certainly grim, and definitely worth your time.
this book was incredibly heavy handed - until you figure out (if you are like me and don't read the written date, only the published date) that this book is largely autobiographical and she was born in 1890. one bad ass broad. truly inspirational.
Tammy encouraged me to read this. Awesome.
Ricorda la figura del padre, un uomo bello, sognatore, romantico, viaggiatore, storyteller, inconcludente, egoista e a volte violento; una figura con cui sarà in conflitto per buona parte della sua vita, un conflitto che non verrà mai interamente risolto.
Abbiamo, qui, una serie di temi: il viaggio e più in generale il movimento, il sogno, la povertà, il ruolo della cultura, la dignità della donna in quanto essere umano, la rivoluzione, la guerra, l'amore, il sesso.
Prima ancora che per l'emancipazione della donna, infatti, Marie lotta per una rivoluzione sociale, perché gli oppressi, le caste, i poveri, coloro che "appartengono alla terra", possano in qualche modo liberarsi dalle catene ed emergere.
My copy has the introduction in the back of the book so I read this after finishing "Daughter of Earth" only to realise much of the content is autobiographical.I'm still in a state of shock and awe.
How and why Agnes Smedley is such a mystery to UK audiences is a tragedy and something I'm hoping to address on a very small level by passing my lovely copy to as many people as I can.
My mother, a retired English Literature teacher with over 30 years of teaching and reading had never heard of Smedley.Aside from Agnes Smedley's genius as an important and significant female voice in the cannon of literature as a whole this book as a work of (kinda) fiction is breathtaking.
Validation for Daughter of Earth. (Besides my own):http://www.openculture.com/2013/10/fa......Dos Passos, unlike most of the men, names a few women writers, including Agnes Smedley, now revealed to have been a triple agent for the Soviets, the Chinese, and Indian nationalists, “one of the most prolific female spies of the 20th century.” Dos Passos’ commentary on her autobiography Daughter of Earth—which he misremembers as Woman of Earth—is mostly understated: “An uneven but impressive I suppose autobiographical narrative of a young woman’s life in a Western mining camp and in New York.”
This is an interesting book because it is about a subject and time not otherwise written about (or at least known to me) much in American literature, from a woman's point of view.
Smedley, after all, was a champion of the Chinese revolution and friend of Mao Tse-tung.It is beautifully and evocatively written, so it does not read like a treatise, but it is a fundamentally political work - feminist and socialist.
It is about STRENGTH and politics.If you are interested in rural poverty, and fighting against the odds and limitations in early 20th century America, you will find much in this book.
The book begins with Smedley's character looking out at the cold Danish sea. Such an important book, Willa Cather-Trotsky-Ghandi-Gayle Jones-Dorotea Langue-esque characters. Fictionalized autobiography of early 20th Century radicalism. So important to read, perfect, dramatic narrative of economic realities on families, nations, movements. There probably were rich people described at some point in the novel, I can't remember. I do recall how much she loved the people around her, her poor hardworking parents, dead too soon, the inspired young radicals she meet, the failures, travels - what an incredible human being, really.
The first part of Daughter of Earth is the most engaging, describing her life on the American frontier in the last decade of the 19th century in evocative and often lyrical language.
The narrative drags a bit when it reaches her time in New York as a university student and political activist, but this fictionalization is not as remarkable as the facts of Agnes Smedley's life.
Rather tempted to read a biography of her now, since this work closes when she leaves the US to spend the majority of her life in Europe and then China.
Remarkable woman, especially in her time.
I first read this book over 40 years ago. I held on to the paperback for all these years because it was so important to me. It held up well and re-reading it allowed me to appreciate its feminist point of view. The struggles, hard choices, courage, determination and vulnerability of the main character of this semi-autobiographical book were moving and inspiring as well as haunting. I was able to let this book go and release it to be read by someone else to appreciate.
This is fascinating, a first hand account of growing up in the mining camps and what it meant to survive. She is brutal in her honesty of life and views of wymyn in their societal roles. After adventures and escaping marriage proposals, she is in the city working with foreign freedom fighters from India. Great periferal perspectives of the labor movement, prison conditions, and cultural bullshit.
"Daughter of Earth" is an autobiographical novel about a woman born and raised in poverty in the early 20th century. She rises above the neglect and abuse that she experienced in her childhood and she works hard to make an independent life for herself by seeking out education and work. She rejects the idea that a woman needs a man to make her life complete. This book was named as one of "500 Great Books by Women".
This is an amazing book and I highly recommend it. The only reason I didn't give it 5-stars is that I save 5-stars for books I would take to a desert island, and this doesn't quite make the cut. But it is seriously worth reading. About a poor person - and a woman - with a mind of her own. I would make it required reading.
First read this quite a long time ago, but it remains one of the most inspirational books I've ever read. I've given it as a present to friends I thought it would appeal to. It has lifted my spirits when I've felt that life's too tough because her life was so much tougher but she kept going, and her achievements were amazing given what she had to overcome throughout her life.
I don't think that I have ever read a book that I hated, then thought was the best book ever written, then thought was OK. But this was it. What was most interesting was that it is based on Smedley's life. The afterword by Paul Lauter was enlightning and helped clear up why I have never heard of Agnes Smedley before. Bottom line: still worth reading- especially for feminists.
the issues are so relevant today... for instance, how power plays out when it comes to gendered violence / abuse within activist or organizer circles. substitute the incident of rape with any act of sexual / gendered violence commonly deemed a personal, not systemic problem.this book ends speaking to the costs of that. (autobio fiction based on the author's own experience)
amazing autobiography of an outrageously bold and wonderful woman that few people know about. she spent many years politically embedded in china covering the revolution, and was heavily, and at great risk, involved in many political causes in the states, especially women's rights. such an interesting book.
Great material and good story; so poorly written. I looked for this book for a very long time and really wanted to love it, but found the writing immature and full of pathos. I'm very sentimental and still found this gooey. It lost a great deal of credibility in the disorganization.
It took me awhile to get through this one. It was hard to keep track of so I would not recommend reading this book if you like to read just a little before bed. The best part about this book was that it was written in the early 1900's but it's amazing how ahead of her time she was.
Literary style was atrocious but the content-- reading about class warfare, capitalistic corruption (a la Upton Sinclair), gender equality, and even India's fight for freedom was worth the effort
Loved it!
Decided not to be a volunteer content provider for Amazon. I rated and reviewed this book on LibraryThing: http://www.librarything.com/profile_r...
Great semi-autobiographical novel; would be terrific for use as textbook.
Incredibly well rounded portrait & true story about a woman trying to make a life of her own; while trying to maintain & negotiate intimate relationships at the same time.
Better than I had hoped, but still very depressing.
Pretty decent read. I liked some of the author's stories about her youth, but found the second half to be a lot more bitter and annoying.
