https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184612.Black_Reconstruction_in_America_1860_1880
This is the book that made me realize how we in the US failed both Blacks and our democracy (by undermining equality) when we let Reconstruction fail so miserably after the Civil War.
Indeed, the natural leaders of the poor whites, the small farmer, the merchant, the professional man, the white mechanic and slave overseer, were bound to the planters and repelled from the slaves and even from the mass of the white laborers in two ways: first, they constituted the police patrol who could ride with planters and now and then exercise unlimited force upon recalcitrant or runaway slaves; and then, too, there was always a chance that they themselves might also become planters by saving money, by investment, by the power of good luck; and the only heaven that attracted them was the life of the great Southern planter.” And this, longer, but so beautifully written I could not dare cut a word, and which also seems painfully worth reading during our present times: "This brings us down to the period of the Civil War. Up to the time that the war actually broke out, American labor simply refused, in the main, to envisage black labor as a part of its problem.
Du Bois provides an exhaustively detailed account of the Reconstruction years, delves into the foundations of public education, and, with solid economic/Marxist analysis, thoroughly repudiates the previously published work on the period.
In my provincial middle and high school education, the Reconstruction period got nary a mention, and this book more than makes up for that.
I was very glad for the internet, as the book, published in 1935, was written in such a way as to make references to people and events as though the reader is already familiar with them.
It would not have been American, however, not to have maintained some color discrimination, however petty.Broken limbs, broken heads, the mangling of bodies, all prove that it was a contest between enraged men: on the one side from hatred to a race; and on the other, desire for self-preservation, revenge for past grievances and the inhuman murder of their comrades.How extraordinary, and what a tribute to ignorance and religious hypocrisy, is the fact that in the minds of most people, even those
It made little difference what laws were made so long as their interpretation by the courts and administration was dictated by capital.[F]or 250 years the Negroes had worked on this land, and by every analogy in history, when they were emancipated the land ought to have belonged in large part to the workers.Take out the accusation of being black, which is still a crime in the United States, and there remains in such tirades as this only a protest against ignorance and poverty presuming to rule intelligence and wealth; and yet, under the circumstances, how else was the necessary economic and social revolution to be effected?When citizens undertake to claim a right for themselves, they must claim it as a principle, and therefore speak in the name of all who are deprived of the same immunities.
DuBois turned this analysis around, and showed how four million Black people won their own freedom, won the right to vote, and started to build a real American democracy in the wake of the Civil War before Southern and Northern whites betrayed their experiment.
The best part of the book, though, was DuBois' in-depth look at how Southern whites tried to re-enslave African Americans after the war, and how African Americans won the right to vote.
Throughout, DuBois treats the movement among African Americans as essential part of the US labor movement--and points out the weakness of the sections of the white labor movement that tried to grow by excluding or ignoring the Black movement.
In a passage challenging the interpretation of reconstruction governments which had become dominant in the United States over the course of the previous generation, Du Bois insisted that “it was Negro loyalty and the Negro vote alone that restored the South to the Union; established the new democracy, both for white and black, and instituted the public schools.” While the editors praised the article, they struck the passage, and Du Bois angrily withdrew the article from consideration.
Perhaps the very fact that so many of them had seen the wealthy slaveholders at close range, and knew that extent of ignorance and inefficiency among them, led to that extraordinary mass demand on the part of the black laboring class for education.
And it was this demand that was the effective force for the establishment of the public school in the South on a permanent basis, for all people and all classes." [from page 641:]The book is also useful for those studying the history of Florida, Louisiana, Georgia and Mississippi.
When I was in graduate school, I noted somewhat facetiously in a seminar that modern historians of African-American history and Reconstruction were all writing books that essentially said, "DuBois was right about this too...." I was reminded of the revolutionary nature of this book when I decided to set aside time over winter break to read the book.
While, I might not necessarily agree with his exclusive use of a Marxist economic lens to interpret history one cannot deny how amazing it is that an African-American scholar at a small black college in the midst of the Jim Crow South could produce a work that directly challenged the historical orthodoxy of his time, and prevailed!With all of the glowing praise, I should note that the book is long.
And then some unjust God leaned, laughing, over the ramparts of heaven and dropped a black man in the midst.It transformed the world.
It turned democracy back to Roman Imperialism and Fascism; it restored caste and oligarchy; it replaced freedom with slavery and withdrew the name of humanity from the vast majority of human beings."Pp. 122-3: "Suppose on some gray day, as you plod down Wall Street, you should see God sitting on the Treasury steps, in His Glory, with the thunders curved about him?
But to most of the four million black folk emancipated by civil war, God was real.
How many realize that the Union won the Civil War because, quite against its own will, it turned into a successful armed slave insurrection? And that, for a brief generation, the rewards won by this conquest of power actually made the U.S. resemble its egalitarian rhetoric, far more than it ever has since? Unbelievably powerful.
Radicals in the United States should study this book with at least the amount of seriousness and attentiveness that we give Marx's Capital
He offers both a thorough treatment of the national politics behind the Reconstruction Amendments and the battles between Johnson and congressional Republicans, using these sagas as a way to examine the complex role of white elites from both North and South and the divisions of class among whites during the war and postwar periods.
Many have criticized DuBois for having an overly Marxist or economic reductionist approach to Reconstruction, but his attention to dynamic politics and the symbolic, psychological and material role of racial identity belies a Marxist focus on the fundamental robustness of class formation.
Im in a study group that read this chapter per month. It is really an amazingly researched and has exciting language. Makes you understand the civil war and reconstruction as a labor struggle. the sad thing was that this book was almost impossible to find. The entire Brooklyn library system had one missing copy and i couldnt find any book stores that sold it.
If you are interested in Sociology, Criminology or Black History, you must must must read DuBois. DuBois invented Anime theory, do not let your criminology professor lie to you, DuBois never got the respect he deserved because he was 1) an American (which in criminological history, didn't get you far) and 2) Black, which in the mid 1800s didn't get you far.
This book continues to be relevant in today's political/economic/educational climate. It is, simply put, the truth. His chapters on public schooling and history as propaganda are must-reads for anyone seeking an introduction to educational history in the US.
This should be required reading in every American History class. This was definitely one of the best history books I've ever read, Du Bois is amazing!
What I like about this books is the fresh view of reconstruction in that blacks were active actors in this period of time and not lazy bums soaking in perks from republicans after the civil war..
He is wrong in that all whites hated all blacks and that reconstruction and redemption was a conspiracy of planters and poor whites to control blacks by way of economics alone...oh and blaming industry as an evil as well.
Washington who wanted blacks to be industrious and prove their worth in patience, because immediate and passionate violence can be railroaded by bad men and do more harm than good to blacks.
The Dunning School’s main competition at that time was “progressive” history from people like Charles and Mary Beard, who refused to look at the racial questions, or even most political questions, involved with the Civil War and Reconstruction at all, consumed as they were with subjecting everything to an analysis that boiled down to clashes of economic interest.So in 1935, “Black Reconstruction” was a gauntlet thrown at the feet of nearly the entire American historical profession.
In terms of reading experience, I would compare it to “Moby-Dick.”Du Bois’s central thesis is that black people won the Civil War for the North – largely by mounting a “general strike” i.e. mass slave escapes – and that black communities, largely composed of the recently-enslaved, built the first true worker’s democracies in the United States within the Reconstruction-era South.
w.e.b. dubois isn't really, literally writing about ontology here, but his minute catalogue of historical facts and dates and oddly-inconsistently notated figures threw me into the abyss of my own being as a purportedly black subject.
a kind of quantum theoretical splintering broke off in my mind every time dubois would recreate some historic scene where possession (that is, the antonym of dispossession) and franchise would narrowly elude the negro in the legislative, judicial, executive machines of the state.
blackness only makes sense to me politically in terms of its relationship with the state.
Mr. duBois history of Reconstruction is a fascinating read, although most of the actual historical fact is somewhat dated and duBois' methodology would not pass muster according to the standards of modern scholarship. Nevertheless this text provides a fascinating look at the perception of Reconstruction from the point of view of a black Northern intellectual in the early 20th century. Anyone interested in black historiography should definitely give it a read, but for those interested in the history of Reconstruction new tomes would probably be more useful.
Every Black American and every inclusive, serious genealogist and family history researcher needs to read this book, to begin to understand WHAT WAS DONE TO OUR FAMILIES, THEIR COMMUNITIES, PERSONAL PROPERTY and LIVELIHOODS, right after Emancipation and through the SABOTAGED RECONSTRUCTION. What does DuBois write about South and North Carolina? The United States needs to understand and appreciate this book!
Du Bois's rich alignment of Marxism with a penetrating racial analysis allowed him to write a history of reconstruction as a labor history, where the forces of labor and capital are all jockeying for political control before, during, and after the civil war.
Indeed, Du Bois argues that reconstruction was a short-lived and ultimately toppled period of labor dictatorship in the south, and was undone by the accommodation of Northern and Southern Capital, and Southern capital to southern White labor at the expense of Black labor.
The genius of "Black Reconstruction in America" is that figures and events across the globe, particularly the culpability of white workers and capitalists in the north, are given appropriate focus despite the South being the major theatre of this tragedy.Du Bois, for a historian, writes beautifully, particularly when describing the various classes existing in the South and the gravity of the world created after 1876.
The second failure was that the white working class erred tremendously by viewing the black labourer as a threat, in part because they could charge cheaper labour and you know racism, but removing the political power of the black working class further empowered the new capitalist power that emerged in 1876.
The Dunning School portrayed Reconstructed as the unfair subjugation of the American South's "natural" leaders (white men from the planter class from the pre-Civil War era) through an alliance of allegedly corrupt "carpetbaggers," northern capitalists, unqualified formerly enslaved African Americans, and the force of the conquering American army.Carefully drawing on existing scholarship and primary sources, Black Reconstruction makes a convincing case that all of these charges were unfounded, and supportable only through the reference point of anti-African-American racism and the veil of a nostalgia for the socio-economic order of the Old South.
This book is essential reading for today's American left.
Reconstruction was perhaps American's closest flirtation with a true Democracy, both political and economic.
Du Bois demonstrates in this book that he is one of the greatest thinkers in American history.
He writes with a prose that is at times poetic, and he analyzes Reconstruction using insights from psychology, sociology, history, and economics.
It's great reading that chapter knowing that Du Bois' book, despite it standing basically alone when it was published, is the one that has stood the test of time, while modern scholarship has discredited the Dunning School Du Bois argued against.
The definitive book on the civil war and black reconstruction that sets the tone for any work since.
The book is both essential because of how much he quotes people at length to demonstrate that he is not putting words in the mouths of the people he is criticizing and because of his overall framework.
Black reconstruction is about the radical possibilities that emerge in the course of the civil war when there is immense effort on the part of the black workers to fight.

For anyone naive enough to believe that we live in a post-racial America, this book goes a long way to dispelling that idea.
Published in 1935, this is du Bois' effort to respond to fifty years of bad history about the reconstruction era, and his prodigious effort to trace the efforts state by state through the South.
It is long.
It should be read by anyone trying to understand the Alt-Right and many fringe groups who have approached acceptance in our current political climate, and some of the attitudes and issues that still need to be addressed after one hundred years.
A. Synopsis: This book tells the “efforts and experience” of blacks during Reconstruction. Dubois says that his story is based on the assumption that the “Negro in American and in general is an average and ordinary human being, who under given environment develops like other human beings.” (xi) Dubois says that he is not trying to convince the person who believes hat the “Negro is a distinctly inferior creature.” Dubois sought only to show that blacks were equal members of society.B. Look at W.E
The planter: 7% of the South (the planters) ruled 5 million white people and owned 4 million blacks The planters sought to make agriculture equal to industry through the rule of property without yielding political power or education to labor.
The black proletariat in South Carolina: from 1868 to 1876 the blacks outnumbered the whites and dictated the form and methods of government.2.
Ignorant leadership (white and black) hindered this progress and began a duel between Northern and Southern capitalists to control labor.
Documentary through heavy quotation of the positions and arguments as the civil war concluded, the slave was freed and governed, and the Southern elite reasserted their power and control. Very clear in his indictments of capitalism, property, the plantation class, and the undermining of labor's shared interests in obtaining freedom, land, education, and representation. Long and thorough across the slave states as they differed along these themes. Long.
