https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15561.Wizard_at_Large
As with the previous book in the series, there are two story lines going on throughout the entire book.
It requires Ben to give Abernathy the medallion that makes Ben king of Landover.
Ben and Willow go back to our world to find Abernathy and get the bottle.2) This bottle holds a Darkling, something of a genie in a bottle.
The bottle is stolen and is making its way around Landover, wrecking havoc.
Quester is sent to retrieve the bottle.Neither of these story lines are particularly strong, and they simply don't weave well together.
Ponte tra due mondi Nulla che non si sia già letto/visto/subodorato da altre parti e forse, parlando di Terry Brooks, andrebbe accantonata l'idea di leggere contenuti rivoluzionari - un discreto mestierante all'interno del genere, niente di più.Qua la trama si ravviva con i viaggi interdimensionali nonché la fisiologica simpatia che affiora nel momento in cui i mondi entrano in contatto (impossibile non provare un minimo di empatia tra Albernathy ed Elizabeth, tanto per fare un esempio).Giusta la scelta di centralizzare la figura di Questor Twews, protagonista del trashissimo scontro magico con il drago Strabo.
What I liked about the book on this reading (that I appeared to miss on the first visitation) was the personal growth in Questor Thews.
Once I had come to grips with my previous disappointment in the book, I could suddenly enjoy the macguffin borrowed from the fantasy literature of Robert Louis Stevenson and the, at first, comical (and later, tragic) consequences of unleashing this artifact on the world of Landover.
When the attempt to turn the scribe back into a man backfires catastrophically, the wizard tries to set things right, and it's HIS turn for some self-discovery (which is good, because if I had to sit through Ben trying to figure himself out again, it wouldn't have ended well.
I'll admit, I was cheering Questor on in his attempt to persuade Strabo to help him save Ben and the others, and frankly that scene was the highlight of the whole book for me.
Anyway, how she was defeated was pure genius.Can I just say that I might have predicted by the end of the book that Questor would suggest trying to change Abernathy back again?
Really liked the book,it focuses more on a couple of surrounding characters.The main character(Ben Holiday)does have to go back into his old world which does make for some good and entertaining reading.
2.5/5 stellerecensione: http://thereadingpal.blogspot.it/2018...Finalmente mi accingo alla recensione di questo libro, che devo dire mi ha un po' deluso nel complesso.Questa volta Questor, mago "pasticcione" (per non usare termini meno genitili) prova a far tornare Abernathy in umano con una magia.
Non solo questo, ma il povero storico di corte viene mandato nel mondo originario di Ben Holiday, l'Alto Signore, e qualcosa proveniente da lì lo sostituisce a Landover: una bottiglia contenente qualcosa di estremamente pericoloso.Partiamo dalle cose positive.
Non dovrebbe essere roba che accade al di fuori dei libri!Per quanto riguarda il viaggio di Abernathy nel mondo di Ben, ovvero il nostro, sono rimasta un po' "meh" in quanto l'ho trovato poco realistico.
If you didn't see the spell at the start of this book going awry then you clearly didn't read the earlier two books.The series is getting a little formulaic now.
Or any future books really.
I get the medallion is very important, but can i have some other stakes please?On the plus side Questor Thews actually had a character arc in this one.
I like this sort of stuff in my portal fantasy, not just using the transferred character as a foil for worldbuilding explanation ;pA smidge longer than the other books, but still a relatively quick read for a fantasy novel.
Why hasn't this book been made into a movie?
(Oh yeah, because they'd ruin it.)I love this series.
Ben (the Chicago lawyer) buys a magic kingdom.
What could possibly go wrong?
In this third edition: An evil genie gnome IN A BOTTLE gets passed around the kingdom...
all hell breaks loose.At the same time - Ben must race back to his old world with Willow (his green girlfriend and sylph HOTTIE) to save their talking dog Scribe from the old Prince of Landover (who's living near Seattle.)Great book: we got Dragons, and little girls with secret passage ways, AND DRAGONS...
I think this was my favorite of the series, although as a standalone it might have gaps. Spending half the time in our world (in the PNW!), the girl Elizabeth, and Questor Thews trying to decide if he really was a wizard were all things I enjoyed. Nothing went too deep; character development is fairly simplistic, but I've grown to like the characters and was happy I read the book. Overall, this is a series I would recommend. A bit sillier than the other Brooks series I've read, and so right up my alley.
Il pasticcio di un magoTerza storia di questa saga fantasy;il mago di corte Questor Thewes ne combina una delle sue e Abernathy viene spedito nel nostro mondo dove farà conoscenza con nuovi personaggi. Ben andrà in suo soccorso con Willow e il vecchio amico Miles...Davvero carino anche questo,l' unica piccola pecca è che,alla fine,arriva sempre il Paladino a risolvere tutto.
I think this is my favorite Landover novel so far. Story surrounds Abernathy and he's a great character.
Book Review: 2 Treasure BoxesThere is a lot going on and I found the story to be interesting, exciting and well written.
I liked the ending of the story.
The book had a good build up to the final conclusion.
The story also builds from one book to the other, yet each book can be read independently from any other.
If you enjoy reading Terry Brooks, then you will enjoy this book, it is a good fantasy novel that is fun to read.For my full review go to: http://books-treasureortrash.com/?p=825
Questor Thews' latest attempt to change Abernathy from dog to man succeeds in sending him to Earth with Ben's medallion!
To make matters worse, Abernathy was swapped for a bottle containing an evil imp, one with the power to cause great trouble in Landover.
Now it is up to Ben and Willow to retrieve Abernathy and the medallion from Earth, and for Questor Thews to limit the bottle's damage.
But, it soon appears that neither side will find their tasks easy.This is another great book, from a really fun series of fantasy books.
But, I nonetheless found these to be a fun series of books with interesting characters and suspenseful stories.
Easily the best one in the series so far, IMO. The hope I expressed in my review of the first book of getting to see more of Abernathy, was fulfilled at last! Gawd, I love that grumpy old dog. :pNo really, this book was exciting, filled with tension, and I couldn't read it fast enough to see what was going to happen next! Perhaps even one of my all-time favourites, but it'll have to be reread at some point to determine that for sure.
Evil again stalks the Magic Kingdom of Landover and the king has been snatched away...of course I wonder why he keeps "trusting" Questor. To say his spells don't always turn out right is much like saying that bricks seldom fly on their own.Fun reads, and meant to be fun.
Reading through the first three Landover novels, you get the sense that Terry Brooks set himself up very nicely to do a trilogy of books from the start.
It all seems like it is quite the nice setup from the start.Overall I enjoyed the book, I think one of the strong points of the Landover series is the interaction with our world.
It's maybe not quite as good as the first book in my opinion, but I think it's better than the second book.
If you've enjoyed the previous Landover books, you'll enjoy it, but maybe find yourself wishing that the formula Brooks seems to be using would get mixed up a bit more.
This series has plenty of issues, but there is also just enough to make it enjoyable.
In this book, I guess the redeeming feature to counter that was Strabo's appearance in Ben's world.
Her tiny hands were gentle and loving, and she kissed him often.
Her long, green hair swept down about her face as she worked, and it made her seem veiled and mysterious."Cough...
TINY, gentle, loving...
"veiled and mysterious".
Did I mention I don't really like Ben and his snivelling internal monologues?Well, at least this one was better than the previous entry in the series!
The things they describe the gnomes by would make you think of evil toward and I would too but for some reason they respect enough too not take and steal his things without asking, but they know he is generous caring person and is not stingy so they like to take advantage of him and ask for things a lot because they know he will support and help them.
It was also exciting because this book was filled with lots of tension.
When the evil gnome breaks loose everything goes horribly wrong Ben also has to save his talking dog along with his green girlfriend.
Descubrimos un poco más acerca del pasado del reino mágico y de las criaturas que habitan en él; conociendo nuevos poderes y criaturas mágicas.
El argumento parece simple, como en las anteriores novelas, pero se complica de manera insospechada creando una historia entretenida y atrayente de la que deseas conocer el final.
El único punto a destacar es el poder de Questor, que parece crecer de manera desmedida en solo un par de páginas.
Ese creo que sería el punto que más chirría de la historia, pero aún así es una novela interesante y una saga recomendable para todos aquellos que buscan una historia de magia y fantasía diferente.
I would like to give this book two stars because images of the scenery sometimes resurface in my memory, but the writing was so awful that I can’t justify it. “His eyes were shining redly?” Come on. The entire time I was reading this I was wishing I had been the editor. The story was interesting but the execution was lacking severely. I am interested to read the old story from which Brooks claims he based some of the events of this book.
Alrighty then. The series dilemma has reared it's ugly head. You know..you want to read the books close enough together so you don't forget what is happening. But, they become so formulaic that it is hard to enjoy each entry. This is where I find myself with Wizard at Large. Pleasant enough to read, but more of the same. I think I will take a little break from the series for awhile, maybe revisit after the new year.
I read the first couple of books 30 years ago. Somewhere along the way, I stopped paying attention to when the next book was to be written. I am happy to report that I still enjoy the story. It is very easy reading which is just what I need sometimes. I still chuckle occasionally at the characters and humor.
Having to search our world for the magiced away Abernathy, King Ben's right hand man and Wheaten Terrier, Ben discovers just how much Londover and Willow mean to him. Took me a little longer to read this one and I skimmed it more than a little.
I liked this one, because of the way the ending wraps everything up it almost seems like this could be the last in the series... but it's NOT!! yay! I appreciated the attention given to other characters and their personal development in this book.
I am having a harder time working my way through this one. The first book was excellent. The second was good. The third, less so. Sorry, I was really hoping that it would have the sparkle of the first book.
Book 3 in this series is a definite upgrade in terms of plot excitement; found myself anxious to get back to the book and crowed out loud when the dragon made his appearance.
I'm not sure why I never read this book with the first two of the landover series, but evidently I stopped at the second one. this was a great book. It is highly recommended to read all 5 in a row.
Another easy romp. I could just turn off my brain and let my imagination take flight. So days you need this kind of cleansing.
These books are okay but I have such a hard time finishing them.
This one was just okay. Not my favorite in the series so far.
