https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30262.The_Good_the_Bad_and_the_Undead
Not only did I NOT feel like killing this book with fire, but I actually enjoyed reading it *gasps* Despite its Disaster Waiting to Happen Ingredients (DWtHI™)!
I've DNFed books with less than one freaking DWtHI™ in the past, so believe me, my Lovely Arthropods, nothing is impossible in Kill it with Fire Land (KiwFL™).So YES, our dear Rachel has TSTL tendencies, but I like her anyway.
Because if I didn't choose to overlook stuff I choose to overlook, I'd probably end up DNFing 99.99% of the books I DNF try to read.
2/7/18 - ON SALE for $3.99: http://amzn.to/2E6K3VDReviewed by: Rabid ReadsIf I still had any doubts about The Hollows when I finished the Dead Witch Walking, The Good, the Bad, and the Undead laid them to rest.Book 2 begins with Rachel and Jenks in the middle of a run. Several months has passed since the first book ended, and without a death threat hanging over her head, Rachel is free to pursue her new career as an independent runner. Nick is now officially Rachel's boyfriend, and the roommate
. .Even if (for some strange reason) you were hoping things would calm down for our new favorite witch, when Glenn shows up as Rachel and Jenks' ride after the run (instead of Ivy), and insists on taking a detour to the FIB (Federal Inderland Bureau---the human version of police enforcement), it seems HIGHLY unlikely.Even MORE unlikely when you learn the reason for the detour is that Sarah Jane (Trent's new secretary) is there being questioned after reporting her missing boyfriend.A serial killer is on the loose in Cincinnati, you see.
So, I think I've consumed enough of the vampire genre to have some opinions.My theory about Twilight.
Somebody do a poll, quick, and prove me right.So why is Harrison great?Rachel Morgan is a sassy, sarcastic, kick-ass witch.
The vampire "rules" are good - they make sense for modern day vamps in a modern society.
What's to love?ACTION - great!MAGIC - good, different, makes sense, solid (I liked Harry Potter, but I like non-wand magic alot more)HUMOR - if you like Joss Whedon - you have to read this.CREATURES - there's more species than the three I've named.
There is enough humor, mystery and other interesting characters to keep me engaged even when I want to scream at Rachel.
A few things in this book I really enjoyed were her developing relationship with Nick, which let’s face it now is probably doomed and not just because he is a human and Rachel’s mom loves him…
Still I enjoyed their time on page together and their continueing relationship will be interesting if nothing else.The backstory development was really good too.
Big Al on the other hand is probably all bad but in the best way, blame it on the Demon thing if you must.
The second book in the Hollows series is written much better than the haphazard style of Dead Witch Walking.
I'm glad I stuck with the series because it's a really unique and interesting one.
Rachel Morgan slowly learns to stand on her own and develop her powers further in this book.
This book is multi-layered and has complex characters and developments, and it is easily enjoyable.
I recommend The Hollows series to anyone who hasn't started it yet, and keen to start on the next one.Check out Happy Indulgence for more reviews!
Hmmm. This is definitely better than the first. There’s something quite compelling about this series. This confuses me though as there are some annoyances too. I found the plot a little convoluted and I don’t like Nick much. Also the main character Rachel is pretty annoying a lot of the time. Still. I’ve given better books a lower rating on occasion. Go figure!
I got so bogged down by the world building of the first book I put the series on hiatus.
There are many lingering questions from Dead Witch Walking that are resolved in this story (what is Trent, who unleashed the demon on Rachel, who is Ivy really, etc.).
Ivy bugged me, a lot, in the first story and she got under my skin again in this one.
Trent, well, he's the enigma that keeps on giving.
There's a lot that works about this story, enough that I've dusted off the series and restored it to front row status.
If you remember Nick from the first book, well, he's Rachel's boyfriend and their relationship is kind of cute to read and I kind of like them together but to be honest I wouldn't mind if they seperated.
More like a ley-witch hunter and Rachel, Jenks & Ivy (from time to time) help the FIB, along with Glenn (Edden's son) to find out and apprehend the killer.
There is tention between our characters & lots of unpredictability, which I liked a lot.
I'm glad that this book changed my opinion about Rachel, which I grew to love in this one.
Since I knew I need a refresher before moving on with the series, I thought that a re-read would be a perfect choice.
This book really has a lot packed into it with a pretty compelling mystery at the heart of the story.
There are a lot of side plots that also keep the story moving.I love the characters.
Ivy is still a bit of a mystery but I like the tension she adds to story.Marguerite Gavin is the perfect choice for narrator with this series.
I do think that this is a series that really should be read in order since some of the story builds on previous books.
ACLARACIÓN: Aunque esta reseña tiene marcado 'spoilers' después de cada ítem, no suelo spoilear nada. Es decir, no escribo nada que arruine la trama principal. (En caso de hacerlo, lo advierto previamente con una nueva marca de spoiler>!! O sea, te encajo un spoiler adentro del spoiler, porque estoy muy jugada, y soy re heavy y re jodida.)TÍTULO: The Good, The Bad and the Undead (libro N°2 en la serie "The Hollows") Género:  Fantasía Urbana.   ¿De qué trata? : Rachel Morgan (the good?) , se
: (view spoiler)[ Primera persona, Rachel Mariana Morgan, mucha onda; algún que otro chiste medio malo pero jamás aburrida.
(hide spoiler)]En caso de haberlo, ¿entorpece la trama?: (view spoiler)[ Para nada.
(view spoiler)[ Todavía es temprano para opinar sobre eso con firmeza pero, por el momento, y siendo este el segundo libro recién, creo que, por un lado, Ivy es increíble: tiene toda la carga dramática y el misterio encima sin ser la protagonista .
(sin intención del autor/a) (view spoiler)[ Creo que nada.
(hide spoiler)]¿Libros peores (view spoiler)[ Muchos.
(view spoiler)[ En el género, creo que esta serie es de las mejores.
But in this one she totally kicked asses, LOL.About Nick, I really wish he just get killed or something, I seriously can't stand him.He's not good for Rachel at all.
What is he supposed to be to Rachel, I mean she just sees him as a friend but at one moment it looked like he wanted much more.
(Please let something bad happened to Nick,LOL, I'm sorry for those who like him, but I really, really don't)Now I can't wait to read the next, not after such an ending.
If it keeps as good it could end as a new fave.
DNF at 20%No rating for now, I'll try it again later. Maybe I just not in the mood.
We have another mythical creature coming out to play, and it makes no sense in the larger context of the world that Rachel lives in right now.
And I can't stand to keep reading these books if every time Rachel gets out of sorts, it sets off Ivy, and then Ivy tries to feed on her by force and Rachel manages to save herself or someone else comes along and saves her.
I am way more interested in them, then the witches, vampires, and demons running around in this book.Nick who I was rooting for initially, is just as dumb as Rachel.
This one was super satisfying - so many mysteries solved AND opened. Kinda wanted to go immediately to the next one....
I wish she'd put as much effort in the first half of her books as she does in the second.Rachel seems to be a more rounded character in this book although she can still be annoying at times.
Her supporting characters are taking shape better and I'm enjoying having some mysteries solved.
I always feel led on like a soap opera if there isn't some closure in a book.I'm interested enough in picking up a couple more books to see how this story goes.
I have a feeling I'll be wading through the first half of the next book to get to the real story again but I guess I'll just have to wait and see.
This book introduces us to some great new characters along with some oldies, Rachel and Nick are in the early stages of a new relationship as they try and weave the hurdles thrown at them.
Jenks and his Pixie family ,Ivy and her vamp one, Along with the mysterious Trent and allies at the FIB.
I didn't enjoy this one as much as the first.
In the first book, I was impressed that Rachel was not too perfect.
She made some stupid decisions and was way too impulsive, but it made her relatable.
In this book it just went too far.
Seriously?!
How many stupid decisions can you make in one chapter?
Why can't she listen to one thing someone says?Anyway, it is still interesting and I love Jenks.
He is not as bad in this book, but still not seeing how he is redeemable.
Then again it seems like Rachel's karma isn't going to be all that squeaky clean either.
Jenks is still my boy!! I can't get enough of him <3
Re-read Feb 2015
Heroine’s recklessness and mistakes get her into trouble which is too close to stupidity for me.If you like to lose yourself in an urban fantasy world, this is a good one.
I like the way they live, work, and interact with each other and humans in current day.My biggest problem is that I don’t enjoy Rachel.
I couldn’t like her, and therefore I could not enjoy her escapades.Other Rachel examples:A wants to take one of Rachel’s books.
First off I really like the world/universe/dimension (how ever you want to look at it) that she has created.
She has power and connections way beyond her own understanding.
She dives head long into things she only things she understands fully.
These kinds of charecters are easy to follow because they don't understand.
So when things are explained or they work it out, you feelinge you're doing it with htem and and not like a narrator is being forced to explain it to you.Now dont take the harry potter thing too literal.
Well, I finally broke down because I wanted a good paranormal/fantasy read, and I’m super glad I did.Was the beginning incredibly slow?
Yes.Was the rest of the book worth the horrible beginning?
Heck yeah!First, what I didn’t like…The first 10% of the book.It was sooooo boring.I really did try getting through it about 3 different times before I broke down and bought it out of desperation.
I pay extra special attention when they’re around.Anyway!, I’m very happy I decided to read the whole book.
If you had a male character who acted the way Ivy does then I think a lot of people would be really angry about the way the situation was handled and it's probably the main thing that makes me reticent to continue the series.Having said that there is a lot to love about these books so I'm going to push through and hope Ivy  either has a serious attitude adjustment or that someone stakes her and puts me out of my misery!
The Good, the Bad, and the Undead3 StarsThe first book in the series was entertaining enough to continue on to the second, but Rachel and Ivy’s creepy relationship had me putting the book on the back burner halfway through.
Nevertheless, a buddy read pulled me back into the story about a year later and I’m grateful to my buddies as the book improved a great deal in the second half.Harrison’s world building is very engaging.
Thus, getting to the roots of his contentious relationship with Rachel and discovering what lies ahead for them both is what keeps me interested in continuing with the series.
Even as she is happily dating a human, Nick and things seem to be going fairly well with her new roomies, Jenks and Ivy. Rachel gets sucked into a witch murderer case.
After all, it wouldn’t be the first time Trent had tried something mischievous and manipulative to get what he wants.As Rachel gets to work with Detective Glen, readers come to see a much more passionate side to Rachel.
I loved this part because it not only showed readers a compassionate side to Rachel, but also displayed nicely that she isn’t above all this.
Readers can’t help but wanting to know more about him.

I like the concept of this book, but I'm finding it difficult to relate or even sympathise with a Main Character who just willingly and stupidly throws herself in the worse of situations to the detriment of just about everyone around her.
Miles better than DWW! I enjoyed it very much.I still don't like Nick, there's something off there.I WANT to like Kalamack...Al is hilarious.Jenx is still my favorite.Ivy, oh Ivy...
Really, I completely understand having a sense of humor about your work - but ugh - titles derived from movies is just stupid and unimaginative - and - at least in the case of Kim Harrison - the books are neither.Also - I'm getting tired of vampires - titillating as they are with their sex, pain, tortured souls, dominance/submission issues, and stupid vampire/ high school politics.
At the start of the first book I thought I was going to find him trite and annoying, but Harrison has done a remarkable job of fleshing out this character and fantasy species in an original way.
Second in The Hollows paranormal/urban fantasy series focused on Rachel Morgan and her partners, Ivy Tamwood, a living vampire, and Jenks, a sword-carrying pixie, in an alternate Cincinnati.My TakeOne of the things I so enjoy about The Hollows is that the action never stops.
Another connection involving Trent, and she becomes even more passionate to take Trent down.Until Rachel's personal life gets in the way when Piscary makes some dire demands — and Nick has been getting into some serious trouble.The CharactersRachel Morgan is a witch with a propensity for trouble while Ivy Tamwood was a rising star at the Inderland Bureau.
