https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112804.The_Essential_Gandhi
I doubt I would have made that connection had I not read this biography.I’m not saying I hope to be half as good as a person as Gandhi was, but it does give me hope that I can try.
He said that he did “not want to die of a creeping paralysis…a defeated man.” He went on to say that “an assassins’ bullet may put an end to my life.
I look at all my rupee notes and see pictures of this man who is the father of India, yet you cannot find homespun anywhere in Delhi.
All birth takes place in a moment.""Nature is revenging herself upon us with terrible effect for this criminal waste of the gift she has bestowed upon us human beings.""If you could see the inner springs of actions and not the outward manifestations thereof, you would find a wonderful unity...Leave the outward expression, the doctrine, the dogma and the form and behold the unity and oneness of spirit.
I didn't know anything about Gandhi before, so I learned a lot about his life and philosophies, both of which were fascinating. I found much of his writing inspiring. I think the only problem with this book is that the editing is not as strong as it should be -- there were times when passages were repeated, and sometimes the chosen passages felt choppy together. Other times, things got repetitive. Still, it's a huge amount of information to condense into a manageable book for the average reader, so I can't complain much.
I have never tried, for I have always believed God to be without form.
I was not dreaming at the time I heard the Voice.
The hearing of the Voice was preceded by a terrific struggle within me.
Could I give any further evidence that it was truly the Voice that I heard and that it was not an echo of my own heated imagination?
But I can say this — that not the unanimous verdict of the whole world against me could shake me from the belief that what I heard was the true voice of God."
One of the most important books that I have ever read. Although the editing of this book could have been better, the essence of Gandhi's message was preserved. The book weaves together some of the Great Soul's best writings and introduces us to his beliefs, political views, philosophies and his relationship with his own spirituality. Gandhi's achievements give us hope that if we embrace our enemies with love and compassion, and constantly battle our own demons and vices, then we have a real chance at living in this world free of war, violence and bloodshed.
This is an interesting book on Gandhi's perspectives and life's work, but not as good as his autobiographical "My Experiments With the Truth", which was more of a narrative and flowed much better. This book felt pastiched and scattered, though I did learn some things I didn't get from the aforementioned other work (e.g., he was adamantly against being called "Mahatma"). Overall, it's a worthwhile read, but I'd get "My Experiments" first if you're just getting into Gandhi.
Too powerful to have a proper reaction after the first read. I'll return to this book later in the year and give it another go, and hopefully be able to grasp it better. Much of his ideas are beautifully undeniable, but reading a lot of what he says also raises questions, which Gandhi of course would have had no issue with. I'll be thinking about this into the unforeseeable future.
While he is right in being concerned with finding work for India's idle, and in seeing skilled labor (the use of spinning) as a means of improving a worker's value over an unskilled worker, his insistence on an already-obsolete method showed a lack of reflection.
As much as I enjoyed the narrative quality of the way Ghandi's writings were organized and the historical background interspersed throughout, I can't help but feel the editor was a little too heavy handed here.
On a single page, there were as many as 5 different source texts, with varying audiences and political contexts, for instance a letter to a friend, a speech to the Congress, and a newspaper article.
I think this format is great for a first-time reader of Ghandi who wants a little historical hand-holding and a basic idea of Ghandi's philosophies on various topics.
Ghandi is the definition of what humanity should be.
There are far too many ellipses in this book for my taste.
The author/complier who was trying to convey Gandhi's ideas literally cobbled together quotes throughout the entire book.
It leaves you wondering whether or not the quotes are being used in the proper context.The author did provide fastidious footnotes for the quotes, but I really wouldn't want to have to check that many sources by hand.
The reason I purchased this book was that I wanted a good general overview of Gandhi's life and the ideas he espoused.Considering how fragmented and repetitive the book seemed, a better result could've been reached in essay format in about 10 pages.
Gandhi's voluminous writings have been organized and condensed to read like an autobiography, and the numerous bracketed summaries and ellipses never let the reader forget that this book has been heavily edited.Nevertheless, Gandhi in Gandhi's own words is a fascinating subject. He is fearless in his self reflection and is surprisingly candid about such personal topics as his sex life with his wife, his failures as a father, and his disappointments in leading India's nonviolence movement. As thrilling as it is to read about Gandhi the spiritual leader, it is even more inspiring to read about Gandhi the man.
Gandhi's thought provoking questions about humility and its dysfunctional response to the universal lack of, “The rule of law,” sends a clear message that even the Neanderthals would be hard pressed not too understand.
Fischer attempt’s to capture the essential ideas of a man far more advance in human thought than almost any person alive at that time.
His simple ideals transcend the self imposed isolation of rational thought and lays it on the alter of life.
Hard to understand at times, but the reader who peruse its understanding will not go away disappointed
I barely got through the first chapter because it felt so man-handled; molested, even.
Th editing felt like such an insult to the idea of Gandhi.
Gandhi wrote and spoke in the moment; that was how he practiced truth.
I forget who edited this, but whoever did claimed to be an expert in Gandhi.
If he was such an expert, how could he bring himself to do the exact opposite of what Gandhi strived to do?
I'd prefer to read Gandhi's "My experiments with the truth" in Gandhi's own words, just as he wrote it and as he intended to share it.
Don't take my rating the wrong way. As I expected them to be the writings of Gandhi were overwhelming, and caused much introspection for me, but this particular compilation left much to be desired. The editing was poor, and it tended toward taking a paragraph here and there from different writings and pasting them together. I am always leery of writings pasted like this, often intentionally or unintentionally the original direction of the piece is cut away, leaving side notes or worse.Read Gandhi just not this compilation.

This really is the essential Gandhi. Starting out I kind of had pre-set ideas of Gandhi and his beliefs. This was great to read in its entirety. You see Gandhi's views change over his life and I love how he does not hold everyone to his personal standards, but inspires them to reach farther, and to become better. His undying faith in the goodness of humankind and the power to reach him or her through love is amazing and inspiring.
This as an absolutely fantastic book. Fischer chronicles Gandhi's life in a way that is fascinating as a narrative, but not overly intrusive on his beliefs and teachings. I find myself returning to this book over and over... it is amazing and will change the way you think about life, politics, religion, and just about everything else.
This is an awesome resource for primary material (Gandhi's own writings). The book presents excerpts from multiple sources, both from his time in South Africa and in India, in what seems to be a mostly chronological order. The way it's written makes it easy to read, almost like a first person novel.In terms of the content itself, Gandhi was brilliant and way ahead of his time.
Very disappointing. Difficult to read as the writer took Gandhi's quotes and then wrote a bit in between them giving some background. Would just as soon have read a biography online. Very dull. Gandhi's heart and soul were lost in translation. Had to make myself read it, which I very seldom make myself do.
I am just in awe that a man such as this existed. The mere thought that a man fasting would bring people together is mind blowing. I misunderstood Gandhi's non violence movement before this book. His faith in that fact that humanity is good is unparalleled to anything that I have read before. I like that he never thought he had the absolute truth but just trying his best to find it.
i'd heard most of the mainstream things about Gandhi and wanted to learn more. I thought this book was a great way to learn about his life and teachings and really liked the mix of Gandhi's own writings with the biographer's explanitory notes...it made it easy to read and gave further context to understanding the message.
Great book. I knew very little about Ghandi before reading this. Found it at a library sale for 10 cents. Fischer takes you through Ghandi's life and philosophies using Ghandi's own words compiled from various writings. It's a great introduction to both Ghandi's life and his ideas. Pretty easy reading, too.
A broad overview of Gandhi's life and philosophy, in his own words. Editor Louis Fischer intersperses the passages with brief introductions or segues, to help the reader understand the historical setting. Worthwhile.
It took me a few months to finish this. I'd read a bit & then need to process for a while. I really was impressed by Gandhi's humility and his simple, simple ideas for improving the state of the world around oneself. I will definitely be referencing this book again in my life.
Love reading Gandhi's writings. I read this and MLK's autobiography around the same time. It was good to read both at the same time. Two very purposeful nonviolent leaders who changed the world near the same time.
Awkwardly edited and a difficult/slow read for much of the time. Some good parts are buried throughout, but too many bracketed background summaries from the editor trying to link those parts together. Wouldn't recommend this particular compilation edition of Ghandi's writings and work.
So much to take in - how does one even live a snippet of Gandhi's life? The more I read his letters, the more I realise how incredible he was and how much we need a Gandhi today, and how rare such people are.
It's hard to separate a "book review" from a general opinion of Gandhi's works and teachings. For what it was worth it was a great introduction to the man and his accomplishments. He's an excellent writer too.
a great read, learned so much about his time in South Africa tat really shaped his work in India and it's mostly in his own words
Amazing man, amazing book.
