https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2206.The_Adams_Jefferson_Letters
The letters themselves trace all extant correspondence between Thomas Jefferson and both John and Abigail Adams beginning in 1777, the year after both men worked on the drafting committee for the Declaration of Independence, up until 1826, when both men died, within five hours of each other, on July 4, on the 50-year anniversary of the document in which they both pledged "[their] lives, [their] fortunes, and [their] sacred honor." From the very beginning, these letters give us a view of America's founding by two of the people who had the most to do with it.
Yet even within these passages, there are delightful gems, and in Jefferson and Abigail Adams' correspondence, there are far more abundant examples of the mutual friendship and admiration between the Adamses and Jefferson.
But while Adams doesn't achieve the same frequent elegance, his letters are filled with reminders that he was an excellent statesman, and right more often than history gave him credit for (although Jefferson does in later letters).
Their topics range from education to metaphysics to aristocracy, but Adams' and Jefferson's late-in-life correspondence is far more a story about a seemingly impossible reconciliation.
I've read at least one historian that presented the letters as Adams and Jefferson posing for posterity.
12/4/2016What I've read is marvelous, but my present mindset does not provide suitable ground for this to flourish.
Not when severing the union seems like the perfect solution to irreconcilable differences.
Party hatred by its deadly poison blinds the Eyes and envenoms the heart.
It sees not that wisdom dwells with moderation, and that firmness of conduct is seldom united with outrageous voilence [i.e., violence] of sentiment.- Abigail Adams--If only it were a party.
It's the people.<<>>==<<>>==<<>>==<<>>==<<>>==<<>>==<<>>Buddy read with Ran and DianeSchedule:July 24, pp.
How grief opens doors and softens hearts.
The death of Mary was unsurprising as the catalyst for reconciliation.July 31, pp.
But if you work as an archivist, you quickly get over the illicit sense of reading personal correspondence.
However, one aspect of personal correspondence that always remains a little bit elusive is complete understanding.
Correspondents write in shared secret languages to each other that an audience (especially an audience as far removed as 2016) may not fully comprehend.
Adams and Jefferson shared several of these secret languages which may remain deeply buried to a modern audience.
It remains truly fantastic to me that these former presidents of very different political persuasions renewed and maintained a friendship throughout their lives.
One of many books I've stolen from my dad's bookshelf. I ADORE Jefferson and Adams' letters to one another (although the Adams' letters to each other are wonderful to read also). The parallel of Jefferson and Adams' stories, their correspondence repairing their relationship at the end of their lives, the synchronicity of their deaths... pretty amazing stuff. (Such a dork.)
I was motivated to buy this by the John Adams miniseries.
The letters that were read in the final episode were very moving.
I imagined I would have to hunt around in the volume for letters as good as the ones read in the series.
And many could have been as entertaining as the ones read in the series.
That would have made a great scene.) The letters also tell me that I would not want to be on the other end of a correspondence with an angry Abigail Adams.
The miniseries is accurate, but sometimes misleading, though in ways that are almost inevitable when brevity is an issue.
This was my "big read" for 2014 - I read a letter or two every day starting in January and here I am, done a month ahead of schedule.
The letters between these two men make for an amazing read, especially after they retire from the public eye.
Sigh, when will we again grace with Statesmen like Adams and Jefferson.
Fascinating, in-depth, and compelling.
Loads and loads of correspondence between two of the most important of the founding fathers.
Their letters in the 18th century are interesting but sort of practical and perfunctory, and then their estrangement after their vitriolic presidential campaigns concluding with the heart of their correspondence after their reconciliation which covers the most rich and intellectually stimulating letters.
Their more philosophical stuff towards the end is decidedly the most important (esp.
right now), but the reconciliation is also extremely interesting showing the almost tragicomic process of a friendship deteriorating, and the herculean effort required to patch things up.
They served in the Second Continental Congress, collaborated on the Declaration of Independence, served as diplomats overseas, and served as the second and third vice president and president of the United States.
They were learned men with very diverse interests and struck up a great friendship, only to see it become smashed to pieces over differing political visions.
Cappon, on one of the greatest letter editorial accomplishments of the twentieth century (it was originally published in 1959), assembles their vast correspondence -- including Abigail Adams, wife of John -- and carefully annotates it through the highs and lows of their relationship.
The Adams-Jefferson correspondence is an unparalleled education in life, friendship, politics, revolutionary America, religion, and philosophy. With over 50+ years of letters between John Adams (and Abigail Adams) and Thomas Jefferson, their relationship is on full display. Both the good and the bad. I highly recommend to anyone who wants to better appreciate their relationship and that time period. My thought is it’s Best to read the correspondence in sections.
Second half is the best.
Well, if your desires in that regard include the office of the Presidency of the United States and the early days following the American Revolution, that is exactly what this book provides.As was typical of statesmen of that day, Thomas Jefferson and John Adams maintained a lengthy personal and professional correspondance the subjects of which were both mundane and highly intellectual.
This was a bit of a labor for me, but one I came to love in the end.Like I'm sure many people lately, I came to this book via the John Adams 2008 documentary with Paul Giamatti.
I suspected the earlier letters would be comparatively boring, that the good stuff would come after they'd retired, and were free to muse and philosophize about government.As it turned out, I read it straight through.
John Adams' voice (ok, probably Paul Giamatti's) comes through all of his letters, via excessive capitalization and reiteration.
OK I am far too far away from my original point--this stuff is so well written that I found myself reading some of the letters OUT LOUD and totally savoring the ring and rhythm of this lovingly composed prose between two dear friends who hashed out a lot of what Americans inventing a new type of government needed to think about.Their literary expression makes me proud to be able to read the English language.
This stuff is worth reading because it is written so well that it may take your breath away.
This book collects the letters exchanged between John Adams and Thomas Jefferson over the course of their 50 year acquaintanceship.
It is certainly the most remarkable exchange of correspondence in American history, and among the most remarkable in the history of western civilization.
These letters demonstrate epistolary writing at its finest, an art form that our society has lost.In addition, this book includes letters between Abigail Adams and Jefferson.
Perhaps lacking in the epistolary style of her husband, Abigail's thoughts and reflections are absolutely fascinating.Nothing less than an achievement of the highest order.
This is a fundamental piece of literature for anyone seeking to understand the motives, attitudes, fears, and intentions of our founding fathers and their actions.
Adams sought a strong federal republic, and Jefferson was fearful of a Federal government with too much power.
I wish that people toting "the founding fathers" in their political rhetoric today would read these exchanges, and they would better understand that disagreement about the roles and responsibilities of government have ALWAYS been the subject of great disagreement.
The founding fathers never could agree on anything, and yet they still found compromise.
This is one of the greatest books that I have read.
Two of our most prominent statesmen writing letters back and forth during the early days of our republic.
Not only were they writing about problems our early republic faced, but also topics such as philosophy, religion, education, and their families.
I think our politicians today should read these letters and learn from them.
It is amazing at what these two gentlemen could even speak of problems that we face this very day.
Great book and worth the read for anyone.
This is a collection of the correspondence between Thomas Jefferson and John Adams. It may sound boring, but it is actually quite interesting. Adams and Jefferson started out their association as the best of friends, only to see that friendship fall apart when both men campaigned to become president of the new American republic. Their friendship was then renewed during their retirement years. It is a wonderful story to read about, and this book gives you the chance to read their ACTUAL words instead of some author's interpretation.
I started reading the during the last class of my Graduate's studies.
I have always been interested in history.
Having watched a few countries around the world rewrite their history at the sake of losing their overall character, I want to read for myself what "Our" early fathers thought.
By reading their personal letters to each other one can see for themselves what Adams and Jefferson believed.
We all need to step back a read the history from those that were there and lived it and not have someone else 200 years (or more) tell you what they believe history was like.
The book started off a bit dry, and perhaps a bit too detailed for me. The chapter previews that give a highlight of the content of the letters from each period are great, and their correspondence from the time of their return to the states up until the end of their lives was fascinating. I wish we had minds like these in US politics today.
These letters make John and Abigail and Thomas Jefferson come alive on the page. What most intrigued me was the conflict that grew between Adams and Jefferson, Adams' jealousy of his wife's friendship with Jefferson, and the letters between Abigail and Jefferson attempting to deal with the schism. Fascinating!
What a unique look at the men who helped form this nation! What an amazing friendship, to have survived political adversity and time and distance. I find it fascinating that so much of their correspondence survived and their heirs and friends took the time to compile their writings to make this volume possible.
A fantastic collection of the entire correspondence between some of the greatest people of American history. A thoroughly engaging and enlightening experience, permitting one an intimate view into the hearts and lives of John Adams and Thomas Jefferson. I highly recommend it!
300 pages of this was enough to count for me. Abigail's letters were by far the most interesting. This was for school, not pleasure.
I would love to tell you what I think, but I'm unable to read this book. What does it mean when it asks "what shelf?" Please help.
I got a copy as a Christmas gift in 2009. Thse two men are so different, yet both contributed greatly to what our country became. A great resd.
As it was throughout John Adams by David McCullough the presentation of the literature that came out of these two men's pens is nothing short of inspiring.
Brilliant, detailed, vital exploration of making a new universe.
A great book. Their use of the language and phrasing is incredible.
