https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124678.Three_Cheers_Secret_Seven
This one is only *sort of* about thieves, because it involves trespassing and living in a house that you don't own, but for kind of good reasons? But at least the Seven don't break up another robbery ring, so that's something. This one absolutely takes the cake in terms of how lowly the boys think of the girls. Susie couldn't possibly appreciate a model aeroplane, because unlike a boy, girls can't follow complicated instructions. -Sigh-Anyway, much the same as the other books in the series. Four stars.
5 Stars.
these books i grew up with. i wanted to be a part of their adventures and i was when i read them. i reccommend these books for any child under 10.I has been a while scince i read these books so i can't give a proper review.
The books are falling into a real formula where they start with oh we haven't met for a while let's meet, followed by an incident with Jack's sister Susie, who is really the book series greatest character, and often puts poncey Peter to shame.You can't help but feel that these kids are overprivileged selfish gets and that they need a good hard talking to - but anyway apart from that they are ok.The "mysteries" are getting thinner and weaker and they more often just stumble into them.
They are certainly much weaker than both of Blyton's "five" series, having more characters does not mean better.
Not one of you could hypothesize that it could be old Grim's wife hiding in the house? I'm disappointed, Secret Seven. Yeah of you too, Scamper. You could've barked your disapproval when you heard them making the wrong assumptions. And rolled your eyes when Janet and Barbara presented their report. "Duh! What do you want me to do, write it down for you?"
I thought this was one of the better Secret Seven books because there seemed to be a little more depth when it came to the 'villain' of the plot. Usually this person will be an obvious baddie, but here there is actually an extra dimension to it, which is nice. The Seven aren't quite as horrible towards Susie as they usually are, either.
#11...I was introduced to the genre of mystery in my childhood by 2 groups of children1.The Famous Five2. The Secret SevenThe fact it was more interesting and exciting as the mysteries were solved by children my age that time... So reliving my childhood memory..
Good.
I remember reading this book as a child. It moved me then, and it moved me now! My favourite Secret Seven Adventure so far!
I love the secret seven little adventures, and happy to read such kindness adventure one like this one. It is a must read book for kids so that they develop a hobby of helping others
Dunya ka sabse accha book hai
3.5
Really a touching story
All the boys are envious of Susie's aeroplane, which Enid says gleams silver bright in the sun – but on the front cover of this book the aeroplane is red!After they've feasted on biscuits, gingerbread, an enormous bar of nut chocolate, jam tarts and two bottles of lemonade – oh, and a bag of toffees – Jack takes the aeroplane, intending to show Susie how to fly it.Unfortunately the aeroplane soars over a high wall at the other end of the field, and disappears.
Revisiting the books of my youth out of a feeling of nostalgia! I loved Enid Blyton when I was younger and can't wait to re-read these with my own children.
A mystery with a nice twist28 September 2014 This was an odd little Secret Seven book that had a rather surprising ending (though I did work it out once all of the information had been presented to me) so I feel that I can't say all that much without giving it away (which is something that I don't want to do, so I will simply use the spoiler tag). Anyway, a couple of presents arrive from America: a cowboy suit for Jack and a model aeroplane for Suzie (Jack's sister, and the character who really
Anyway, a couple of presents arrive from America: a cowboy suit for Jack and a model aeroplane for Suzie (Jack's sister, and the character who really wants to be a member of the Secret Seven, but the rest of them not only find her annoying, but because there are already Seven people in the society they are pretty much full up).
As such the Secret Seven suddenly find themselves on another adventure, namely to find out who is hiding away in this house (and despite me saying otherwise above, I have decided that I will not reveal any of the ending at all and just let you read it and find out yourself – anyway the book is quite small, as with all the other Secret Seven novels, so it won't disrupt your reading schedule too much).
Reading the series to my 8 year old at the moment.
I read through the Secret Seven books when I was in elementary school, and I loved them.
No other series that I read ever seemed to compare.
Recently I discovered this book through my local library, and was pulled once again, into the charming and wonderful world of seven young people and their adventurous ways.
I could imagine these books into a series for young viewers, and find the charming tale reminiscent of the days when I read the books for the very first time.
Hurrah for The Secret Seven!
This book was about Susie letting the secret 7 let them have the aeroplane but when Jack flew it flew into Barlett Lodge it got lost.
Jack and peter didn’t know where it had gone over the wall or into their house or outside.
But there was only one thing to do and that was climb over the wall.
the best bit about the book was when there was a granny on the second top balcony where the plane flew and then when they went inside there she was but Jack and peter didn’t know where she came from but Grim her husband who was so angry but at the beginning the secret 7 didn’t like him but at the end peter and jack gave them some money so they cannot go back to that horrible cottage.
Young detectives for grown-up mysteriesMeet Peter and his sister Janet, Jack, Barbara, George, Pam and Colin.
A group of child detectives that will get tangled in all sorts of adventures that will make them juggle school attendance, homework, and the ineffable desire to solve the mysteries they stumble upon.
Juvenile sense of wonder, the principal ingredient in Enid Blyton works, is a guarantee of a good moment for readers of all ages.Here, when Jack’s sister's aeroplane lands in a locked up house, Peter and Jack go to fetch it back, and discover a gas fire burning in the house.
I read Famous Five and Secret Seven about the same time. I do not know if it is just me, but I found the Secret Seven mysteries to be a bit more mysterious… if you know what I mean.But yes, all the early lessons I have learnt about friendships and life are from reading Enid Blyton Books early on. So I thoroughly encourage all children to read them. It is like passing a passage of life and the secret seven series is no different.
But this excerpt: Jack took up the leaflet about the [toy] plane and studied it, while the other three boys tried to look over his shoulder."It seems easy enough," said Jack. "To a boy, I mean," he added hastily. "Girls aren't much good at reading complicated instructions." *sigh* This was written back in 1956 after all.
A Secret Seven adventure that follows the regular formula to the letter, with Jack and Peter taking centre stage and no one else really getting to borrow any of their characteristics this time. However, there is a pleasant twist at the end as the resolution of the mystery is refreshingly different from the old "the big, stolid policemen captured the naughty men" ending.
It has been a long time since I have read a children's book by Enid Blyton. This was a fun and fast read with wholesome characters that have relationships with the adults in their lives. The mystery the "secret seven" solve leads them to compassion and generosity.
AMAZING!!!When Peter and Jack search for their lost model airplane in the garden of an abandoned house, they see a gas-fire alight in one of the rooms. Who is hiding there and why? It looks like the Seven have another interesting case to solve.
Loved this book, thought it was great. I actually sat down and read it all in one go. It was my first book in the Secret Seven series and I will definitely be reading more.Just to add, thought Peter was a little bossy but I still liked him.
Read the Indonesian before. Logic check: if the flower in the pot needs water so much and Mrs Grim only moved there for a week instead of a year, should the flower has died first before she waters it? HAHAHA
I really enjoyed reading this book aloud to my kids. It follows the typical Secret Seven mystery formula, presenting all the clues needed to solve the mystery. It is the first book in the series that has caught me up emotionally enough to care about characters other than the seven.
720L. not sure I liked them as well as Amazons, etc.
My favorite when I was a kid along with the Famous Five
