https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1379961.People_of_the_Book
A Review of People of the Book (or, Why I Hate the Kindle)Brooks's novel is a fictionalized account of the real Sarajevo Haggadah, a Jewish religious text noteworthy for its inclusion of an illuminated manuscript and for its survival through turmoil and the hostility towards Jews that has erupted time and again over the centuries in Europe and Eastern Europe.
And, though the novel explores the nature of Jewish/Muslim/Christian relationships throughout the ages, it doesn't seek to lecture about morality or about what one should (or should not) believe.Despite enjoying it, I will admit that People of the Book has some flaws.
It had given me an excuse to riff on the way knowledge had traveled amazing distances during the Conveivencia, over well-established routes linking the artists and intellectuals of Spain with their counterparts in Baghdad, Cairo, and Isphahan." (321) (We are actually supposed to clap our hands with glee on Hanna's behalf at that point, I think.) Once Hanna's expertise about the haggadah is questioned, she gives up her work as a conservator of old, European and Middle Eastern texts, and instead starts saving Australian Aboriginal art from being destroyed by mining companies.
Deciding not to limit myself to only one of her books, I chose People of the Book, her fictionalized history of the Sarajevo Haggadah.
Brooks intersperses Heath's quest to discover the haggadah's and her own history with chapters on each of the haggadah's stops over the last 500 years.
As Heath discovers artifacts while researching, Brooks takes us back in time to World II Sarajevo, Vienna, Florence, and pre-inquisition Spain.
Read on and discover the haggadah's path through history.
As someone who rarely reads fiction, I am delighted with my choice of both book and author as the one to lead me back to the world of storytelling.
An exceptional novel about a rare book conservator from Australia who researches the Sarajevo Haggadda, an ancient Jewish prayer book.
Brooks uses the protagonist's research to tell the story of the book backwards from WWII to 1600s Venice to Moorish Spain.
A none too subtle vehicle to highlight the interwoven histories of Christians, Jews and Muslims - the People of the Book - the novel is also an allegory about learning itself and people's struggles to keep the flame of wisdom alight.
Original, well researched and provocative, a reader will enjoy the textured characterizations and the personality brimming in each historical sketch.
What others see as blemishes or trash - a red stain, a salt crystal, a white hair lost in the folds of the binding - Hanna sees as clues to the people of the book.
In a way, the book reads like a collection of short stories, but a common thread - the ancient manuscript - ties everything together into one beautiful tapestry.
Often this language is employed to give an intimate, artful description of the manuscript itself, such that People of the Book sometimes feels like a love letter to the act of slowly crafting a masterpiece: Blue: intense as a midsummer sky, obtained from grinding precious lapis lazuli carried by camel caravan all the way from the mountains of Afghanistan.
When it comes to books, though, I feel obligated to read what’s popular so I can participate somewhat intelligently in the conversation.That being said, although I hoped Geraldine Brook’s People of the Book would live up to the buzz, I wasn’t too surprised when it did not.
People follows the provenance of the Sarajevo Haggadah.As such, the book is divided into several sections.
I was far more interested in what happens when she is out of the picture.People of the Book is an okay read, but I see no need to trample your friends and neighbors to secure a copy.
The story of an extraordinary book and the people who surround it.And I did not enjoy it.My reaction to this one was a huge surprise.
I adored Geraldine Brook's Year of Wonders and I thought this would be an easy hit for me.I think the problem is fairly simple- never connected with the main character.
I couldn't stand Hanna.The small details of her work that she found so absorbing, I didn't enjoy.I didn't like how she treated people sometimes.
I was listening to People of the Book as an audiobook.
Again, I can't believe I didn't like this.Highly recommend Year of Wonders.
5★ A new favourite! I love it when old stories sound right for their time, and Geraldine Brooksdoes that so well. This novel was inspired by the discovery of the real Sarajevo Haggadah, a book more than 700 years old, so Brooks had a lot of ground to cover and a lot of voices to invent.Her central character (Hanna Heath, a rare book expert) says about herself:  “By linking research and imagination, sometimes I can think myself into the heads of the people who made the book. I can figure out who
This novel was inspired by the discovery of the real Sarajevo Haggadah, a book more than 700 years old, so Brooks had a lot of ground to cover and a lot of voices to invent.Her central character (Hanna Heath, a rare book expert) says about herself: 
All are in desperately dangerous situations.This has everything--childbirth, torture, intrigue, power, war, greed, compassion--and Hanna’s own story as well.In 1996, Dr Hanna Heath (PhD doctor), an expert Australian conservator of rare books, is invited to Sarajevo to inspect a recently discovered haggadah [Brooks does not capitalise it, incidentally].
There's nothing bad about this but there's nothing exciting about it either. I'd describe it as assembly line fiction. A novel that is designed to be a crowd pleaser. It never strays from formulaic commercial boundaries. The story is well-plotted and researched. The prose is professional but never inspired. The characters are on the bland side, each one with a predictable problematical relationship. The author has won the Pulitzer prize so I was expecting something much braver and more literary. I reached page 120 and realised I would much rather be reading Cormac McCarthy.
Don't be put off by the first bit when you meet Hanna, the main character: she is supposed to be kind of annoying.
You end up loving her with a compassion that this author can magically instill in you for all of her characters, of which there are many.
The book also spans many centuries and traverses many continents, so it's a bit complex.
But wow: This account of the history of a little book takes you through the darkest hours of human history, including the Inquisition and the Holocaust, but you end up feeling somehow so uplifted by the story.
From beginning to the end.I don't usually like books on war situations but this book received so many good comments and ratings from Goodreads I decided to go for it.
And starts with a quote, like this one, page 329 in my book:A white hairSeville, 1480My eyes seep sorrow; water skins with holes- Abid bin al-AbrasPart of a review (Miami Herald): "Stellar - compelling story.
A sensitive story, crossing borders, crossing time lines....Realistic and poetic at the same time.
Highly recommended!I wanted to give a sense of the people of the book, the different hands that had made it, used it, protected it....
Geraldine Brook's latest is a treat for us librarians (as well as dedicated to us in the front!) as she traces the path of an ancient religious text that, although Jewish in origin, was saved and added to several times over by members of different religions and cultures throughout time.
As usual, Brooks' prose is both incredibly readable and laudably literary, and her theme that the love of knowledge and books crosses all historical and cultural boundaries is well illustrated through her complex characterizations and real-life-inspired plot.
In the end, all of us who love, teach, and support literacy and learning are "People of the Book."
I could have sworn I wrote a review. I read this book the first week it was released....I LOVED IT!!!
This is a wonderful story of a magical book, an illuminated manuscript begun in the 15th century and found in Sarajevo after the Bosnian War, a Jewish manuscript rescued by a Muslim librarian who could not bear to see such a treasure be destroyed.Based on some fact and the author's talented recreation, we see the history of this religious piece over the years as some seek to destroy it and others work to save or embellish it.
I found I learned some history here while following the book.
I definitely will have to try others of her books.
There are a few drawings on the map of how things would have looked in these places/times too.I particularly enjoyed the story of present day Hanna’s relationship with her mother, but I hate to single out that one because there were so many wonderful characters and relationships.
I was also absorbed both by the inside look at the craft of book conservation work and by the detective work that can be involved as part of it.On a personal note: I’ve been an Olympics junkie since my teens and clearly remember the Sarajevo Olympics, including the interviews at the time about how everyone in the area was getting along so well together, and then what happened there in the years following, so those parts of the story seemed very familiar to me.Historical fiction stories often torment me because I always want to know what’s real and what is fiction.
Instead of wrapping me up in a story that evolves over space and time, Brooks tries to wrap up each little story into too neat a package, which always left me wanting more.
I suppose the fact that I never wanted the book to end, and, more specifically, mourned the end of each segment at the same time that I yearned for the next, should tell me something about how much I actually did like the book.
When Brooks is not tying very neat little bows, she is spinning stories around very neat little cliches, which will leave you feeling like you have read this book before.
I only got through the first 50 pages on this one. I'll try her novel The Wonder Years, but I found the narrator just too whipsmart. Also, there was a line or two that made me groan outloud. When Hannah is sitting on a plane next to someone who removes mines, she says to herself something like: "I thought about making a borderline comment like, 'business booming, eh?'" Yuck! Also, she "seduces" a guy by licking his fingers at a restaurant. All I could think was, "Who really does that?" It made my toes curl (in a bad way).
I adored this novel! It contained all the elements of my favorite contemporary fiction: impeccable historical research, geographic locales that are as strong as the characters, characters who are multi-dimensional & believable, a plot that weaves multiple threads and themes in good pace and with precision. With this, Brooks moves into my favorite authors column.
Brooks accomplishes nothing by opting for repugnant main characters.
Moreover, the entire modern-day plot is offensively implausible (not to mention, totally derivative of ANGELS & DEMONS and THE DA VINCI CODE).As to the historical fiction, I appreciate what Brooks is trying to do.
I actually quite dig the section set in Vienna during La Belle Époque.
But the section set in Seville during La Convivencia is virtually unreadable.
At all.If the reader can’t conjure any mental image from the text, the novelist has failed.
Perhaps she should stick to journalism and leave fiction to those more adept with character and evocative language.
It fictionalizes the true story of the Sarajevo Haggadah, a unique, 500-year old version of a book read at Jewish Passover Seders.
It illustrates the story of how and why Passover came to be.
People of the Book looks at the fascinating story of the Haggadah's travels through the years and creates a story from them.
While reading I did not care at all which was which and I am not certain I do now.
Geraldine Brooks.ostensibly tells the story of a book, but as the title hints, what she really tells is the story of a people.
Geraldine Brooks has a way of weaving through historical moments of cogent settings, to make powerful, real-life stories vivid through narrative.
Most times I find her narrative peculiar and alluring, like the close narration in March, for example.
In Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague, she had me immersed in style and dialect and of the three novels of hers I've read so far, she managed to keep me invested in the setting and "situation"(i.e. war).
Rating: 3* of fiveThis is the very first book about books I've ever read that left me hating people more than when I started it.Hanna, what a terrible waste of a person.
On and on, back through the Western World's horrible, cruel, hagridden-by-God history...!The Sarajevo Haggadah is to be pitied that it was created by human hands.
Books can bear evil (The Turner Diaries) but few become the focus of such concentrated evil as Brooks paints this poor thing.Brooks isn't any kind of an exciting writer, and her structure here...skippity-lurch, tilty-whirl...never got down into anything like the *good* parts of the people who puke, fuck, and torture their way through the book.
I think an alternative title for this book could have been something like Women and Love or What Women Mean When They Talk About Love.
It is beautiful.And now that I’ve compared this book to the Sistine Chapel, there is no way anyone could go into it liking it.
I listened to this on audio, and it was like hearing someone describe every way a woman’s love can be beautiful and painful, harsh and delicate.
It talked about the right things and in the right way.And, of course, it was about a book, which I imagine is the universal symbol of love.
The people in these stories and the stories themselves were so diverse and interesting I could not wait to get to the next one.
As always truth is stranger than fiction, and I loved finding out that this novel and some of the events was based on the true story of an ancient Jewish codex saved from the fire by a Muslim librarian.
The Story: The novel tells the fictional story of Hanna Heath, an Australian book conservator who is responsible for restoring one of the oldest surviving Jewish illuminated texts.
The story follows the Haggadah backward in time as it travels across Europe, from war-torn Sarajevo to the book's origins.
What is it that makes a book compelling?This one, apparently, has all the necessary ingredients to make a novel difficult to forget.I'd say it's historically well researched, it has masterly developed and believable characters and an interesting thread which holds all of them together."People of the book" is exactly that, the story of the different people who, through centuries and centuries, managed to create or to keep or to protect one of the most treasured books ever, an ancient Haggadah.
Yeah, I guess the true protagonist is the book, not the people...Well, I can only say I didn't enjoy reading the novel, and although I recognise it's a well written book, I won't be searching for anything else by this author.
It's based on a real artifact from the 15th century-the Sarajevo Haggadah which is an illustrated Jewish prayer book created in Spain.
Brooks writes an imaginary account of the book's travel through a wide but interconnected series of people from different ethnicity, status, and race.
I think the author must have done her job when I'm googling fictional characters-they all seemed SO real.
The main things I love about her book is hope in the midst of conflict.
Although our diverse cultures and religions have mounted eons of conflict with hideous ways to hurt each other, individual acts of courage and kindness make a difference.
Finally finished  People of the Book  and I’m not sure what I have to say about it.
It’s rare for me to not have much to say about a book but I don’t think I do.
This is a book that has been on my “to read” list long before I was a member of GR and even had a list to put it on.
I think this is a book whose premise has always been attractive to me but as many times as I’ve seen it online or held it in my grasp at the bookstore I never brought it home to start the relationship.
It’s rare for me to not have much to say about a book but I don’t think I do.
I think this is a book whose premise has always been attractive to me but as many times as I’ve seen it online or held it in my grasp at the bookstore I never brought it home to start the relationship.
Although the premise sounded like everything that “text book Deb” would enjoy, something about it just never pushed me further.
But still….I like to consider the analogy of a relationship with a lot of my books and so with this in mind, I want to tell 
it follows the story of a particularly beautiful haggadah, the passover prayer book (am i saying this right?), through various centuries and incredible journeys, in alternating chapters in which you see a contemporary book curator trying to unveil the history of this amazing object, just resurfaced in sarajevo (it's 1996 and the war is raging), then jump back in history and see what really happened.
this is not just about the density of life and secrets and stories that old objects (and books!) carry with and on them, but also -- and this is certainly a corollary to what i said above -- about how little we know of anything, how many impenetrable mysteries texture history and human life and each individual human existence.
As she inspects it, she finds evidence that suggests the history of the Haggadah as it changes hands traveling from Spain to Sarajevo."People of the Book" moves forward in time with Hanna's life--her career, a love interest, her mother--which is the less interesting half of the book.
The manuscript changed hands at times of intolerance among the Christians, Jews, and Muslims.The Sarajevo Haggadah is a main character in the story.
The book was a reminder of how many people in history have used religion as a source of conflict and prejudice, instead of using it for good purposes.
Μετά από κάθε κεφάλαιο στο οποίο παίρνει απάντηση για το κάθε στοιχείο, η συγγραφέας ξεκινά ένα νέο κεφάλαιο όπου μας μεταφέρει στην ιστορία του πως έφτασε το κάθε στοιχείο όντως εκεί, στο Σαράγεβο το 1940, στη Βιέννη το 1894, στη Βενετία ΤΟ 1609, στην Ταραγόνα το 1492 κ στην Σεβίλη το 1480, έτσι λοιπόν γνωρίζουμε τους ανθρώπους του βιβλίου -όπως πολύ εύστοχα ονόμασε το βιβλίο της η Μπρουκς (people of the book) που πολύ άστοχα άλλαξε η Ωκεανίδα σε “ το μυστικό χειρόγραφο της Χάννα” (από πού κ ως που μυστικό;)-οι οποίοι όπως ανακαλύπτουμε πάντα μα πάντα εμπλέκονται άθελα τους σε μια θρησκευτική διαμάχη και εκδιώκονται εξαιτίας της, Πολύ γοητευτικές βρήκα κατά την γνώμη μου κ τις πάμπολλες πληροφορίες για την επιστήμη και την ιστορία της βιβλιοδεσίας κ της συντήρησης βιβλίων, αν κ ίσως πολλοί τις βρουν κουραστικές.
