https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31067.Malcolm_X_Speaks
“America needs to understand Islam, because this is the one religion that erases the race problem from its society. Throughout my travels in the Muslim world, I have met, talked to, and even eaten with, people who would have been considered 'white' in America, but the religion of Islam in their hearts has removed the 'white' from their minds. They practice sincere and true brotherhood with other people irrespective of their color.” –Malcolm X
Considering the limited number of work by Brother Malcolm, this collection is invaluable. After leaving the Nation of Islam, not much is made of Malcolm's time between leaving, his hajj to Mecca, and his assassination; "Malcolm X Speaks" covers Malcolm's philosophical and political maturation as documented in press conferences, speeches, lectures, interviews, etc. From his early stages as a Black Nationalist to full on militant socialist, this collection gives an unprecedented insight into the mind of the greatest black American radical since Marcus Garvey.
Good lord, these speeches are timeless and indescribable. Just read it.
This is an excellent collection of some of Malcolm X's most important speeches. However, a few omit sizeable selections from some of the speeches, much of the time leaving out important parts. Still, this is one of the best books on Malcolm X's political thought there is, perhaps only surpassed by "By Any Means Necessary" by the same author.
While I have read the autobiography and see the movie and a documentary or two, I still felt like I didn't get to know about the man.I bought this book because I not only wanted to hear the words of Malcolm X, but I wanted to take them all in context.
Most of the speeches are whole.What surprised me is that I did "hear" Malcolm's words.
His words are still powerful after all these years and you can clearly get a feel for his voice.The only downside is that sadly, these speeches are selected.
As a reading experience I'm giving it just four because Malcolm's strengths as an orator don't always translate well to print.
Still, he was not a supremely gifted writer like Martin Luther King, and after a while, these transcribed speeches get a little...
These gifts make his speeches incredibly engaging and pretty easy to read (stylistically, anyway), forty years later.
It's interesting to see, with hindsight, what Malcolm got right (a whole lotta things) and what he got...
For an understanding of the 60's, then, this is an essential read, if not quite a human rights prose masterpiece.
It describes how many of his beliefs and ideas changed through his life, and changed his views on the world.
I immensely enjoyed the book as it allowed me to see how Malcolm X changed through out his life, and what type of world he lived in.
In his speeches he would cite events and happenings from all around the world.
The book allows us to appreciate the effort made by so many individuals during the explosive '60s.
It allows us to discern the difference between Malcolm's most effective speeches and the ones he gave earlier in his career.
Malcolm being not a big fan of non violent approach caused press and other people to call him a hater, racist and violent man, in his defense he says that he respect non violent protestors and their courage, at the same time he sees violent approach is mereley self defense, and that black racism is only a reaction of the racism and the opression the faced from KKK and the rigged system.I also admire how he tried to connect black american to their brothers in Africa.The book focus on the Orthodox muslim Malcolm's speeches and statements.
After reading this and writing my term paper about one of Malcolm's speeches, I have a newfound admiration of this man and the opinions and values he represented!
In fact, if you don't get pissed off reading Malcolm X's speeches, you are either not paying attention or not trying hard enough.
His language is meant to be inflammatory, especially to the bourgesoise do-nothing white liberal middle-class (read: me), who say that we're willing to fight for human rights and continue to wait for someone else to tell us what to do.
The problem with conservatives is that a lot of times they're right, in an absolute sense, but the world is not made of absolute ideals.
Malcolm X Speaks is the best collection of Malcolm X's speeches because it spans the largest amount of time, covers the most important speeches of his life, and allows the reader to see the continuity of Malcolm's revolutionary thinking as well as his development. The second best being 'Malcolm X Speeches: February 1965', but only because it covers a more narrow scope.
Malcom was able to draw from others experience as well as his own studies to shape and push ideas of black identity in the national dialogue in an intelligent, charasmatic, inspirational way. His speeches are the building blocks to his success and you know they say genius is in the details.
Mah man, Malcolm, still fighting the good fight in 2017.
Can you imagine what the world would look like today if great leaders like Malcolm X, Patrice Lumumba, and Martin Luther King, Jr were actually allowed to live and grow old?!?!
the ballot or the bullet speech is timeless and my favorite speech of the book.
Usually when people are sad, they don't do anything. They just cry over their condition. But when they get angry, they bring about a change.
Is the point of a leader like Malcolm to challenge the status quo and accelerate their advancements?Before I babble on, here’s what I think X was: a leader who challenged the status quo, almost a third party candidate in that regard, more concerned with addressing the larger issues than accomplishing short term compromises, dedicated to the ideals he stood for at the highest level, more concerned for advocating for these ideas than even protecting his own life.First, let’s examine what kind of person he was.
One must put into context what was going on in America at the time of his death, versus what would happen in the next few years or next forty.Malcolm X Speaks is interesting because it looks at (mostly) the last eight months of Malcolm X's life.
He's right in saying that if this happened to America as a whole, we would have reacted violently, and did so as can be seen with the American Revolution.Overall, whether you agree or disagree with Malcolm X's views, this book is certainly worth reading.
2017 Reading Challenge - A book that's been mentioned in another bookMalcolm X Speaks: Selected Speeches and Statements - these speeches were mentioned in Between the World and Me by Ta Nehisi Coates, which I read last year.I read this book in college, but wanted to revisit it now that I have re-read The Autobiography of Malcolm X, and was reading Taylor Branche's works that I found very problematic in their handling of Black nationalism and Malcolm X specifically.These speeches are incredibly relevant to the times we live in.
Malcolm X speaks to the universality the resistance to American imperialism in developing countries.
Regardless of what I think about Malcolm X the man or the activist, this is an invaluable collection of speeches, interviews, and historical narrative that traces the evolution of his thought in his last year, maybe his most dynamic in terms of personal and political growth.
While the speeches toward the end get repetitive, the first several are sharp, articulate, and nearly jump off the page with an angry energy.
In his later speeches, beginning with the address to the African nations, one can see his idealism getting the better of him.
The book doesn't really answer these questions, but it provides a great jumping off point to further research.
Malcolm X is a very well-spoken man.
Though I dislike the fact that this book had to be cut down and we could not read the entirety of his speeches, I understand that it is necessary for the sake of the book.
While I may not agree with all of his ideals it is clear that Malcolm cares deeply for his people.
It is understandable from reading this, why many blacks would flock to him.
We should put aside our differences and deal with the common adversary that blacks in America face every day.
A principios de 1960, por ejemplo, tras el enorme ímpetu creado por la Conferencia de Bandung y las luchas de liberación nacional Africanas y Latinoamericanas, Malcolm X intentó reorientar el foco de las demandas de los Afroamericanos desde los “derechos civiles” hacia los “derechos humanos” y esto desvió retóricamente el foro de apelación desde el Congreso de los Estados Unidos a la Asamblea General de la ONU.
Como muchos otros líderes Afroamericanos desde Marcus Garvey, Malcolm X reconoció claramente el poder de la postura de hablar de una nación y un pueblo.
There are great aspects to this book and it is well worth reading to understand more completely one of the leader voices in the fight for racial equality.It is extremely interesting to see how Malcolm's views change over time based on various experiences in his life but, as with anyone with a semi-consistent platform or cause, the themes tend to get worn and repeated.
This gives an overview of his early/more militant views which is delivered with great theme and rhetoric and gives an overview of Malcolm's transformation from experiences in Africa.Overall a great read but I'm not sure if it's worth reading every last speech unless you're writing a history paper on him.
I have heard others talk about Malcolm like he was the plague.
I've heard these speaks before and they are brought to you in a nice easy to read package.
MLK and Malcolm fought on the same side with a mighty one two punch.
You read this you begin to understand American Wasechu were awful in his day.
In those times it was hard to stand tall and brave the world in the strength Malcolm and King showed us.
I'm proud to own such a wonderful mirror of those important times in american history.
My favorite bit so far (which actually appears quite early in the book) is a quote from the opening sentence of one of Malcom X's speach:"Mr. Moderator, Brother Lomax, brothers and sisters, friends and enemies: I just can't believe everyone in here is a friend and I don't want to leave anybody out."In his speeches, Malcom X strikes a blend of outright revolt and openness to the other party, in hope of a peaceful resolution. Not an easy combo.Also a good read: "Most of you have no idea what Martin Luther King actually did" by HamdenRicehttp://www.dailykos.com/story/2011/08...
I'm still reading this one.
It will be a while 'cause, I feel the need to re-read some of the pages to gain clearer understanding.
Also, the copy I got is in spanish and I'm not the fastest reader in spanish.
So much of what he said then is also true of what can be said now.
Malcolm's voice is one we need to find in ourselves.
Everyone needs to read this book, doesn't matter what your race or religion.
We each have a voice and need to use it to call out for the canges WE need to be truely FREE.
I received this book in a Goodreads Giveaway and I'm very glad that I did.
You hear so much about Malcolm X.
But, reading his words paints a very different picture.
One could say a more-full picture.
You can argue with his tactics but it's hard to argue his reasoning.
And, in this remarkable collection of the speeches and interviews he gave over the last year of his life, you get to see a man whose opinion is changing and ever-evolving.
It's worth reading whether you think you like this man or detest him.
Because you'll never know until you take the time to find out.
Ha sido una muy buena lectura, me ha hecho ver las cosas desde una perspectiva diferente, una buen medio para conocer a esta figura histórica
2ND QUARTER: This is one of the most inspiring, moving and incredible book I've ever read. He is such a passionate and brilliant speaker. Throughout the time that these various speeches are made many defining events occurred in his life, like leaving the Nation of Islam and his pilgrimage to Mecca. Crucial events were also occurring around him during this time period, like the presidential election on 1964 and the March on Washington only slightly before. His strength and determination have been misconstrued as cruel, harsh or irrational.More soon..
although i did not finish this book, the selections i read seemed right on when Malcolm talked about racism in America. Since the speaches all took place in the last year of his life there was much repatition. The most inspiring thing about Malcolm X for me is his change after visiting Mecca.the non-violent question is a hard one. how many of us are really brave enough to turn the other cheek?
