https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/766955.Click_Clack_Moo
Perhaps the most comprehensive book ever written on understanding labor dispute.
Hey! French fellows! You don't understand this review? Check this. You're welcome. All in all, an hilarious and original book. It gave bad ideas to my pupils though. Oh, well. Better now than never. We must preserve our reputation after all. PS. I always knew ducks weren't worthy of trust. Just saying.
All of my kids have loved this one! Especially the ending where Duck takes off with the typewriter!
HA HA! Workers of the world unite! I'm not sure how I accidentally checked out this book on how to explain union movements to your toddler, but this was a h-i-l-a-r-i-o-u-s, bizarre, and unexpected read.
Somebody make me stop laughing. Cows that type were hard to find, actually impossible. Until this book came into existence. I thanked the writers that this time they made the ducks play a neutral role but did they really?Ducks cannot be trusted, right? Plunge straight into this hilarious one.P.S. We're closed. No milk today.
You gotta watch out for those smart cows. Once they realize their power over farmers, there is no end to what they might ask for. Room service. Extra towels. Facials. And you know what THAT means - the price of ice cream will skyrocket!Never let a cow near a typewriter, that's all I'm saying.
This book is absolutely hilarious! I may have an infantile sense of humour but this book made me laugh like a deranged milkman. It reminded me of the sort of thing Spike Milligan used to write.The illustrations are also rather wonderful, in a Quentin Blake-ish style. Fantastic book. Every child should have this on their bookshelf.
Amusing though smacked a little too much of labor strikes and typical corporate bad guys vs. dissatisfied workers for my taste... I know, I know, it is a kids book, though, and it IS hilarious to think of those cows click-clack-mooing away in the barn! :-)
I want to give this book five stars. It's so fun to read and the artwork is wonderful. But the little 17-month old in whose library it now belongs, is a little slow to warm up to new books. So I'm withholding a star until he responds to it the way he does to Little Blue Truck and Go, Dogs, Go!
I wonder how cows managed to type with their reduced number of digits and no opposable thumbs. At least the hens or the messenger duck could have used the hunt and peck method, but apparently this did not occur until later in the book. This book was written in the year 2000. One wonders why the farm animals did not use computers; with a decent voice recognition software, they might have avoided the awkwardness and tedium of typing altogether.
Quyển này có mấy chữ đâu mà mẹ đã viết đến chừng này rồi lại thêm chừng nữa thì chắc các bạn khác không còn hứng thú đọc Bò đánh máy đâu con ạ.(Có điều, nếu nói thì ngắn dọn thế này: Bò đánh máy là đồng minh của  Chuyện ở nông trại.
Có khi đó là tuyệt tác, vì không thế thì sao bà Lewin lại có được tiếng vang lớn nhờ minh họa cho Bò đánh máy chứ.Thôi, nói bấy nhiêu đủ rồi con ạ.
Author: Doreen Cronin Illustrator: Betsy LewinGenre: Fiction Picture Book Publication Info: Simon & Schuster Children's Publishing : 2000Reading Level: Ages 4-8; Early ReaderTopic/Theme: Animal Rights/ Strike Issues Addressed: Whether animals should be given rights on the farm.
Text and image: The illustrations are phenomenal.
The text and the images correlate wonderfully together.
By the end of the book the children are mooing along with the "click, clack, moooo".
They always get a chuckle out of the "click, clack, quack" at the end of the book.
Literary Devices: irony (duck), allusion (strike and worker's rights), onomatopoeia (click, clack moo)
Not so much a preschool aged book as for older children. My 5 yr old got a kick out of it and paid attention throughout. The illustrations were adorable and I could see us getting a copy of this and reading it again in the future. Simple story line that had everyone laughing.
Smart cows! Really fun :)
Silly and funny. Definitely a book that lends itself to audio very well.
Sincerely, The CowsFarmer Brown will not give in to their demands, so they go on strike and withhold their milk.
It's not long before the hens feel the chill in the barn and join the strike.This puts Farmer Brown in a tizzy because every fool knows you can't run a farm with no milk and no aiggs!
So he dusts off his own typewriter and bangs out a letter reminding the cows and hens that they are animals and he demands that they produce for him.Eventually the two sides come to an agreement, and peace returns to the farm.
Comments on the Story:Have you ever wondered what cows would ask for if they could some how manage to type a letter to the farmer? Well if you want to find out then you should read this book.Recommend Uses for this Book:This book would be a great book for a preschool storytime. I have thought of using this book for "working together" type themes, because the cows work together to get something they want. This might also be a great story to do a flannel board.
Who doesn't like cows with "tudes"?!
A book about the power of literacy and effective communication, told with great humor.
Trying to compare the original with the new ready-to-read edition... somehow they don't seem the same in my mind.... Can any of you see them side-by-side and tell me?----------------Finally did get a chance to compare them side-by-side and they are exactly the same. Whew.
The book works best when read aloud, as the refrain "click clack moo" is rhythmical and thus can be easily remembered.
It does not only teach how to organize a strike (in a way), but also teaches one important lesson: do not give the cows a typewriter.
More seriously, though, the book touches upon the topic of the life of farm animals, that on the one hand should be treated in a “humane” way, but on the other have certain duties.
The text is integrated in the pictures and there is a clear distinction between what is said by the narrator, and what is written by the farmer and the cows.
This is a fun story that combines imagination and silliness; our girls really enjoyed this story! The labor negotiations are hilarious, and the somewhat advanced concepts of conflict between unions and management will appeal to adults. We've also enjoyed listening to this book read on audiocassette.This book was selected as one of the books for the February 2017- Caldecott Honors 1998-2002 discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
What a funny little book!
I read Click Clack Moo: Cows That Type yesterday with 5 year old Abby and 3 year old Emma, my neighbor’s granddaughters.After the first few pages Abby started to giggle and said she knew what the cows were typing.
“They want some electric blankets!”She had read this book at school and remembered it almost word for word!
Both girls laughed uproariously all the way to the end of the book.
Then I kept hearing “Again!
Read it again!”The drawings are funny and the story is outrageous.
What young child doesn’t like funny animal stories!
Cronin's books are fabulous - consistently funny, always imaginative, and extremely clever. Sure, they're aimed a kids, but adults will appreciate the stories as well. This is the first I read, and the characters reappear in Duck For President and Dooby Dooby Moo, both of which are great reads as well.
This is not a bilingual book, but it works very well for bilingual storytime, especially with a school-age group. This is a very popular title in English, so kids who do not speak Spanish have often read the story before and stay engaged hearing it in Spanish. The repeating "Clic, clac, muu" is the same in both languages and everyone can participate! I love using books that make parents and kids laugh together, and this is definitely one of those! Also great for print awareness.
This book is soo funny and cute!I love the illustrations in the book and the Cows typing is hilarious. I wish this book was available in Spanish I would us it to teach my kids about movements, strikes and organizations in general.
THIS BOOK WAS AWESOME
Snow day today, and daddy duty includes letting the 7-year-old add a few of his favorites to the gr collection... One day I will let him write his own reviews.
The cows and hens write Farmer Brown a note, complaining that they are very cold at night, and would like some electric blankets to keep them warm.
After some negotiations, the cows, hens and Farmer Brown agree that in exchange for the typewriter, he will provide them with electric blankets.
By adding the typewriter and the notes, the author was able to portray the protest in a nonviolent and almost innocent way.
Teachers can use this book to teach children about current events in a way that is fun for students.
Unfortunately for the farmer, the typewriter falls into the hands of the ducks next...Originally published in 2000, and chosen as a Caldecott Honor Book in 2001, Click, Clack, Moo: Cows That Type is a hilariously entertaining picture-book romp!
I would imagine that young listeners will get quite a few giggles out of Farmer Brown's outraged incredulity (I know I did!), and will enjoy following along as the cows negotiate better living conditions.
Recommended to young children who enjoy stories with a silly sense of humor.
