https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20727654-the-paper-magician
“One more,” she promised herself. “One more until the end. And even if there’s no door to freedom, at least you know you tried. One more, Ceony.” This was a good book. At the beginning, I was getting solid heavy magical Daddy Long Legs feels...which descended solidly into Dickensian feels, more specifically, A Christmas Carol. Then it became nigh unbearable, because constant flashbacks are not for me, no, sir. Excellent premise. A heroine that I liked. It was just a shame that this turned out t
Each magician, once graduated, is assigned a speciality.Ceony has been given paper, or as they call it, folding.
Her heart had broken at those words, and now, standing before the gate of Magician Emery Thane’s lair, she wished it had stopped beating altogether.Mg. Aviosky obviously did not realize that the reason Folding had become a dying art was because the skills it enabled were so completely useless.
The fish soared upward through the air as a real fish would in water, its tail fin paddling back and forth until it hit the ceiling—which Ceony noticed had been covered with long pieces of white paper tied together with a simple string.
This book was sweet and magical 😊Ceony was hoping to apprentice to become a smelter or chef, but Tagis Praff School for the Magically Inclined had something different in mind when they set her up with Mg. Thane.
Ceony wasn't happy with this at all as she didn't see any use to being a paper magician.
Mg. Thane had a paper skeleton as a butler!
How freaking cool, but Ceony didn't like it at all.
Mg. Thane got on her good side though when he made her a paper dog since she couldn't bring her real one due to his allergies.
Have you ever had someone try to tell you a story.
So you politely nod your head and pretend to listen even though you are zoning out and thinking of other things...
At the same time your friend really wants to emphasize her story so she repeats the same things over and over which seriously doesn't help and try as you might you still can't piece together what she is saying.
In the end you just continue nodding and thinking soon the story will come to an end and you can make your get away.
I give up. I tried I really did. DNF'd at 51%..I just can not make myself continue. I always feel bad when I don't finish a book but this one just has not captured my interest in the least. The premise is good. The story however, just bobbles along and I'm soooooo pooped from reading it that I want to smash small china doll heads into the wall.I don't care for the main characters..don't care for the story..just don't care..STOP judging me!The only part I liked was the paper folding. I received a

on the tune of barbie girl by aqua:I'm a paper girl, in a paper wooorld.life in paper, see ya layer.a paper pup right there,magicians everywhere. permutation, Folding is creation.Seriously tho (yes, that "layer" up there is an intentional pun)
Granted, it does make it tricky for the authors sometimes - to make characters that fit in with historical social conventions but that are still appealing to contemporary audiences.
Maybe the cover art had me subconsciously expecting another Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell (which this certainly isn't) or maybe the typically masculine author name didn't leave me prepared enough for the level of romance in the book.And sadly, the romance doesn't appeal to me at all.
**SPOILERS BELOW**However, what started out as a promising, fascinating book devolved for me when the second half of the book was spent nearly entirely in visions that didn't even belong to the lead character.
I think this would have been more powerful or useful to me if this segment of the book had been no more than a third of the book, either with more descriptions of magical life and relationship development in the beginning, or application of the lessons and visions from inside the heart and on the journey to life after the adventure.
I spent the whole second half wishing the book would just move on and get back to the story.
The magical system in the book and series, is very unique as magicians bond to certain man-made materials like paper, glass, steel, etc...
and once bonded they can use them.
For example the main protagonist, Ceony can make a paper bird and it will then "come to life" and she can use it to scout for danger or find a person.The setting is England around Victorian times, but doesn't have that "woman can't do [fill in the blank]" vibe.
I enjoyed the interaction between Ceony and Emrey--another character who I liked just as much.This book made me look at paper in an entirely different light!
If the author ever happens to read this, or anyone considering writing a book based in a different time or place--just saying it is set in England at the turn of the 20th Century doesn't make it so.
I mean, is undergarments too big of a swear word to say that we have to call them underthings...And the book is about magicians, and she makes note of one of them noticing the other didn't pray before a meal...well, pretty sure in any realm practicing sorcerers aren't Christians (or followers any other Abrahamic religion)...so they wouldn't pray before a meal, right?
I have read books that were boring, but I could appreciate and give a good review because of the mastery of the word play.
"For the past five years, Ceony had wanted to be a Smelter. However, while most graduates… got to choose what material they dedicated their craft to, Ceony had been assigned." This book was very, very frustrating. Have you ever read a book and wished another author would steal the premise and write a much better book? The premise was fascinating, original and clever. A recent graduate of the Tagis Praff School for the Magically Inclined, Ceony had her heart set on becoming a smelter. You can on
"For the past five years, Ceony had wanted to be a Smelter.
A recent graduate of the Tagis Praff School for the Magically Inclined, Ceony had her heart set on becoming a smelter.
Ceony, a scholarship student with a perfect memory, is assigned to paper.
What a great premise!
An action adventure where Ceony uncovers a dark conspiracy of blood workers (a dark and dangerous magic).
Basically, Ceony gets trapped in her teachers heart and travels through his memories.
Why create a great world with cool magic and then have the bulk of the story stagnant in a weird dream sequence?
I was trying to think of what was wrong with this book and the only thing I could come up with is that is too wishy-washy.
When all the details, from the magic rules to the setting to the time to the characterisation, are as so vague it's impossible to get invested in a book.First up, the positives.
The first third or so of the book had all these cool paper things coming to life and it was so nice.
She was meant to be an apprentice but she spent more time doing her boss/future love interests laundry and cooking.
yeahI guess this is meant to be a YA book.
I just love how they did things for each other before any romance was even hinted at.
What I didn’t like - The middle was so slow: It pretty much involved going down memory lane for a long time and it reminded me of books that have long travelling sections.
(hide spoiler)]Overall, it was okay and I would continue reading the books for 3 reasons: The books are really short, like a little bit over 200 pages, the slow middle seemed like it was unique to this book and thirdly, I want to read about my ship sailing!!!
This review is now LIVE on 100% Rock! Click on the link to read the full review. How many others had she judged and set aside like that, thinking them no more than a one-sided piece of paper? Quick review:What I loved:- The characters. They were funny, peculiar, interesting and very easy to relate to. - The plot. It was new and innovative and I, personally, had never read something like it. I loved the different areas of magic, the alternate fantasy universe and the "Good" vs "Evil" story line.
This review is now LIVE on 100% Rock!
Click on the link to read the full review.
How many others had she judged and set aside like that, thinking them no more than a one-sided piece of paper?
Quick review:What I loved:- The characters.
It was new and innovative and I, personally, had never read something like it.
It didn't give me enough time to catch up with what was going on and , sometimes, I had to re-read the page to understand fully what was happening.- The overly long descriptions.
Full review to come on 100% Rock!
What I mean is they weren't flashback scenes but during the climax of the story Ceony is pursuing an excisioner (and her teacher's former love interest) to rescue Emery's heart.Of course, it's a bit of a play on meaning since Ceony is also in love/starting to fall in love with her teacher and is willing to go to great lengths to rescue him from his past.
Though Ceony tries to hold her own with Emery's troubled past by listing every mistake she made in life, it didn't paint nearly as whole of a picture as the scene by scene journey through Emery's life.As I said, I was entertained enough to continue this series and I see a lot of potential upside, but nothing about this book blew me away.
The paper magic was really fun, but literally half the book is spent in someone's memories, which started to drag, and didn't seem to serve much of a purpose besides fostering a one-sided infatuation that I didn't care for much.
Then there's the blood magician threat, which an entire force of magicians and police have been fighting - but (view spoiler)[Ceony doesn't even get questioned seriously about what happened and how she succeeded against a blood magician who had ripped her master's heart out?
But I liked it well enough.
The concept of paper magic was really interesting, and I enjoyed all the details of folding.
It just had some distracting aspects and was not as developed as I like.
I found myself liking her.My favorite character was Mg. Thane, who while a tad eccentric, did his best to be kind to Ceony even when she didn't deserve it.
Kaora found a book where she did not mind the romance!
Ceony got to know Thane and genuinely started to care about him.The pacing was good for the first half of the book.
Mg. Thane was her teacher and he is 31 and she is 19, making it a tad bit on the creepy side.The pacing for the last half of the book was not as great as the first half.

3 Stars:Overview: I finished this book 17 days ago and I’m just now actually writing this review…Oh well, better late than never right?Charlie Holmberg's book The Paper Magician takes place in a fictionalized Victorian era where magicians are bound to one element—meaning they can only preform magic using that component.
(hide spoiler)]The thing I was most excited to read about was the different uses for paper-magic.
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[ I really would have preferred seeing Ceony come into her own and learn to accept working with Paper Magic without love being part of the equation.
She changed her mind because Emery Thane, while different, is also super freaking nice and he was the invisible hand behind her ability to get the education she wanted - though I don’t think he wanted her to know that.The showdown wasn’t flying spells.
It was a struggle through a dying man’s heart, seeing his memories - good and bad.
Wasn’t necessary, came out of left field, and I get that romance sells but it just didn’t feel right.
Their relationship never felt that way to me.So you lost a star.
Ceony has her heart set on being a Smelter but after all her hard work , at graduation time she is assigned to become a Folder.
Folders enchant paper and they are going extinct as no one considers it a valuable magic to have.
When an Excisioner, a dark Magician controlling blood and flesh, decides to take her teacher's heart with her literally, Ceony is left with no choice but to try and save him.I found all the magic "powers" fascinating and truly unique.
If you feel like a fantasy book, I'd recommend it purely for it's originality with the Folders and their magic.
I honestly try not to make a habit of binning books, however life is too short for bad books and I can only put up with so much.
I feel like my lack of enjoyment of this book was my penance for picking a book based on its cover ( which is awesome btw).I loved the concept but the execution just didn't work for me.
Hardly anything happened until 45%ish and even then the action was...lacking.Overall there just wasn't enough happening in this book to warrant the investment of my time.
Buy, Borrow or Bin Verdict: BinNote: I received this book for free in exchange for an honest review.
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to Amazon Publishing and NetGalley.) “Material made by man, your creator summons you. Link to me as I link to you through my years until the day I die and become earth.” This book started out quite promising, but unfortunately took a big turn for the worse.I found Ceony quite a rude person, and she was also really, really nosey! She was rude to her new employer, rude about his house, and whenever given the
This book started out quite promising, but unfortunately took a big turn for the worse.I found Ceony quite a rude person, and she was also really, really nosey!
The storyline in this started out okay, I liked the way the magicians made so many things from paper, and did things with it that you maybe wouldn’t think of, like making an origami dog.
Whilst I accepted that magic could be used to steal someone’s heart, I really hated the part of the book where Ceony got sucked into said heart, and had to battle her way through it!
Because you didn’t even like him at the start of the book.
The slow unfolding of the world, Ceony learning about paper, the dynamic between the characters.But then the plotty stuff happened!
And, first of all, I think it happened too quickly.
I wasn't invested enough in the world and characters yet.
And I didn't think Ceony knew enough yet.And then the plotty stuff dragged ON AND ON.
I was so frustrated with it, but had read enough that I didn't want to DNF it.And I was all ready to ship the main characters, but .
Particularly all the references to makeup in the very early 1900's.I'm sort of tempted to read the next one, but I probably shouldn't.
This book looked so good at the beginning; the characters were likeable and the magic idea was amazing.
Magical animated origami sounds like something that was written just for me.
I'd be folding and animating random things all day long.
Then the problems start: the magical system has no specified set of rules and limitations.
This of course means that at some point the author will use "magic" to get her characters out of problems that have no other solutions.And then it all goes to hell...
(view spoiler)[ Going on a trippy journey through the literal heart of Mg. Thane?
saves the day because magic-ex-machina!
Más bien un 3.5Ante todo, debo decir que al abrir este libro no sabía hacía qué aventura me embarcaba, pues me negué en redondo en leer la sinopsis. Sólo me dejé llevar por la carátula y lo que mi mente fuera capaz de imaginar. Y, como es lógico, mi mente trazó una ruta muy diferente a la original. Sin embargo, y a medida que fui devorando el libro, la historia me enganchó hasta dejarme con ganas de empezar Ya! el segundo.
It certainly didn't feel like any of the YA books I've ever read.I liked both of the main characters: Ceony - a practical, no-nonsense sort, and Emery - a kind, intelligent and all-around good guy.
“But how will I know if he’s acting strange?” Ceony asked.
“He’s strange already.”In the beginning it surprised me a little that the school board would ship a 19-y.o. girl to become an apprentice and live with a 30-y.o. man, just the two of them in the same house.
Isn't that, like, a little creepy?
So, I DID like this one.
I'm only giving it three stars because it was problematic in some ways.
But once the action really hit, I was definitely caught up in the adventure!
This was a late-into-the-night read for me because I couldn't stop turning those pages.
The magic system was utterly unique and fascinating, and I loved watching the clever ways in which Ceony used her "useless" magic against such a formidable opponent.
It had it's problems, but it had plenty of virtues to balance those problems out, and I'm definitely curious to read the next book.
This book is also a very short read I think, it's just over 200 pages and the pace of the story and the writing style means that is it quite possible to read it all in one setting.The book centres on Ceony Twill, who had just graduated from the Magical School, Tagis Praff.
After reading some reviews on here about this book though, I think that criticisms of the novel’s setting and it not adhering to social conventions of the time, such as Ceony being allowed to live in a house with a single man, she is not related to, unjust.
1Lettura di gruppo E&LDevo ammettere che non conoscevo questi libri.
In questo primo libro veniamo catapultati in questo mondo di fine '800, in cui però c'è la magia.
Una magia diversa da quella a cui siamo abituati.
Peccato che non venga però approfondita questa società.
Tutto ci viene dato per scontato, come se fosse normale un mondo così.
In questo scenario vediamo Ceony, che ha appena finito il suo anno di scuola, e con la direttrice sta andando a casa del mago a cui farà da apprendista per altri due anni.
Con quel pizzico di magia che rende il libro una bella favola.
This was a short and sweet read, I like Ceony and would love to read more of her adventures!I loved the way Paper Magic works, although there are lots of books about magic, Holmberg still was able to create an imaginative and original way in magical world.My only criticism would be that the actions developed a bit too quickly, but this seems like a trait in YA fiction so I am bypassing this and giving this book a 4 stars for the nice company.
