https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1676414.Humanae_Vitae
Reading this prophetic document forty years after its initial publication, knowing the furor it caused then and especially in light of the wisdom we can now see proclaimed, I wonder if there is anything I can add in this review.Of Human Life-Humanae Vitae warned of a number of severe social consequences which would result from the use of artificial methods of birth control.
Given this dismal state of affairs, I would venture to say Pope Paul VI was one of the prophets of the 20th Century and I would strongly encourage everyone to read this document, especially if you are contemplating marriage.
This was my first go at a papal encyclical, and it wasn't nearly as intimidating as I imagined it would be.
Don't get me wrong, it's not what I'd recommend for light reading, but it was very accessible.
It was clear and concise.
It's also very short, so really, if you haven't read it DO SO!
Most people really hate godly teachings against contraception, but it's Truth, plain and simple.
Open your heart to these teachings!
People need to hear and understand this, so they can better embrace their dignity as a human and a child of God.
The people who were so vehemently dissenting from Humanae Vitae (the encyclical's Latin title) are still stuck in 1968 while the Church and those who embraced her teachings, so often critisized as being "old fashioned" or "medieval" (as if that has any bearing on whether they are true or not), are moving forward.
Pope Paul is clear and concise in his presentation of the Church's teaching regarding human sexuality and contraception.
I only hope that more people actually read this document before they decide the Church is "out of touch."
I'm very much familiar with Humanae Vitae as it crops up so frequently during discussions on pro-life topics. But only now I got to read the original document in its entirety. HV is amazing, especially considering its brevity (only 9 PDF pages, 11 including the reference list). The language is clear and leaves no ambiguous interpretation. All potential holes and traps are closed. People say it's prophetic—I couldn't agree more. This is no doubt one of the most important encyclicals in the history of the Church.
Gr
In addition to this book including the entire encyclical, there is a foreword by Mary Eberstadt (author of Adam and Eve After the Pill), afterword by James Hitchcock (author of History of the Catholic Church), and a postscript by Jennifer Fulwiler (author of Something Other than God).
It has been around for 45 years and has received a lot of commentary on it, including the book Why Humanae Vitae Was Right.The foreword by Eberstadt was spot on and a perfect lead in to the text.
The only thing that I would change about this edition is making it a hardcover, like Ignatius Press did for Pope Benedict XVI's encyclicals.
This encyclical has still validity in our present world where it moves towards themore easy way of life.
The Church for them is merely a place to receive some sacraments.The real value of sacrament are vanishing, at this juncture, this document makes its relevanceby calling back to love of God once more.
This document presents the value of maritalrelationship and it warns that this value should not take away from the use of artificialcontraceptives.
By avoiding such practices the couples will enhance a love which Godprovide them by the sacrament of matrimony which is a primordial sacrament.
This encyclical is astonishing in the contrast of its brevity and consequences, and also in its absolute refusal to make concessions to the popular morality of the modern world. Priests, seminarians, and theologians vocally rebelled in response to its publication in 1968, but time has vindicated it and proved its warnings true.
Although this was published in 1968 this brief work is even more relevant than when it was written if that is possible.
I read this along with a study guide called “Celebrating Humanae Vitae” by Cindy Morales.
Unconvincing.With the election of a new pope, I became curious about the dogma behind the Catholic Church's positions on abortion, contraception, and sex.
Many friends have cited or mentioned this as a Catholic classic on the topic.It fell short of my expectations.
The acceptability of NFP vs the outright condemnation of contraception is just one example."By their fruits ye shall know them" is especially apt here.
There might be more convincing theological arguments for the Catholic church's positions on these topics, but this encyclical wasn't it.
Wonderful explanation of Catholic teaching regarding marriage and contraception. Highly recommended (although for mature readers, and all that sort of thing). Pope Paul VI was an excellent writer and a great man--and ever since I first read this encyclical as a teenager, I've regarded him almost as a personal friend. It's that good.
A sometimes problematic translation of this important document. Janet Smith has a much better translation as an appendix to her book "Humanae Vitae: A Generation Later".
Pope Paul VI wrote this encyclical on the transmission of human life in 1968 as a result/analysis of a commission instituted by Pope John XXIII in 1963.
He explains what artificial birth control does to a person's vocation and responsibilities to that vocation.
Such direct interruption of the natural cycle (and abortion is included in this) is immoral.I knew that infertility didn't negate marital sex, but I didn't know it was explained here (not that I'm surprised).I gasped aloud at the second paragraph of Section 17.Putting faith in technology betrays personal responsibility.Pope Paul VI provides pastoral directives that he knows are difficult, but he reiterates that meeting expectations required grace and strength of God.Like most anything else in life.I like that there is a call to scientists and doctors to understand moral obligations to society.
Finally read the classic encyclical on conjugal love and the rearing of children. Many of Paul VI's judgments have been vindicated since it's writing almost 50 years ago. A fascinating argument, not to be hastily dismissed. This edition also has a very good foreword by Mary Eberstadt, whose work on contraception and the sexual revolution was paradigm shifting for me. I know now that work wasn't original to her, but had a rich tradition in Catholic social teaching.
This Encyclical has hit its 50th birthday this year. And wow. How prophetic this document has turned out to be on the negative ramifications of birth control. A wonderful read and more important today than ever in light of #metoo and other movements similar.
Married love particularly reveals its true nature and nobility when we realize that it takes its origin from God, who "is love," (6) the Father "from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named."They develop that union of two persons in which they perfect one another, cooperating with God in the generation and rearing of new lives.
It fosters in husband and wife thoughtfulness and loving consideration for one another.medical science should by the study of natural rhythms – two divine laws - transmitting of life and fostering of married love "the gate is narrow and the way is hard, that leads to life."
The Pill had already spread among the populace, offering a convenient way to skirt the responsibility of parenthood while engaging in "free love." The letter rightly ad forcefully rejects abortion."Humanae Vitae" acknowledges the findings of the Pontifical Commission on Birth Control that released its own report in 1966 that proposed acceptance of lawful contraceptives (I suspect this would exclude abortifacient methods but I cannot 100% confirm that) but insists that the Commission's reports were wrong (although the Commission DID include laity, theologians, bishops and cardinals).
The letter insists that natural birth control (intercourse during a woman's infertile periods) is a lawful way to avoid pregnancy.
This is only 11 pages and I read it as a PDF instead of an EPUB file on my Kindle.
It compressed the page to fit the screen so it was a little difficult to read.
However, I really enjoyed the words of Pope Paul VI.
This book (missive?) began my journey to explore St. Pope John Paul II's Theology of the Body.
Pope Paul VI is concise in his words in what the Catholic Church teaches about sexuality.
Follow along with me and hopefully you'll be inspired to read and learn what the Catholic Church actually teaches about sexuality.
Magnífica encíclica sobre la temática del uso de anticonceptivos dentro de la vida conyugal.
Como puntos de especial interés, aquellos en los que (1) se describe la verdad del amor humano, cómo ha de ser un amor desinteresado entre los cónyuges, (2) se establece una diferenciación clara y bien razonada entre los llamados "métodos naturales" y los métodos anticonceptivos, con un razonamiento sencillo y profundo sobre las implicaciones morales de unos y otros, y (3) la denuncia profética de que la separación de sexo y procreación llevaría a la separación entre sexo y amor (patente en la sociedad actual).Absolutamente recomendable, para leer y releer.
There isn't much to offer by way of a "review" when it comes to papal encyclicals.
Because of how often this particular encyclical is thrown around in contemporary Catholic discussions, I figured it would be a good idea to actually sit down and read it.
It is relatively short and easy to read (being addressed to the Universal Church, after all).
Those who are familiar with the current Catholic rhetoric surrounding contraception and human sexuality will not find anything in "Humanae Vitae" that they have not already been exposed to.
Regardless, it's always best to "review the literature," if you will, especially considering the importance of this encyclical historically.
Humanae vitae is the encyclical issued by Pope Paul VI on July 25, 1968, “On the Regulation of Birth”. It re-affirms the traditional teaching of the Roman Catholic Church regarding abortion, contraception, and other issues pertaining to human life and the family. The encyclical has been controversial because of its prohibition of all forms of artificial contraception. The document is described as prophetic by those who believe that its predictions about the effects of contraception on society were accurate.

Humanae vitae is the Catholic Church's (via Pope Paul VI) position on birth control, specifically, why the Church and the Magisterium cannot condone the use of contraception.This religious text is as relevant today as when it was released in 1968.Must-read for Catholics who seek clarity of understanding on the Church's definition of marriage (qua husband and wife), family life and social responsibilities.
Humanae Vitae (Latin Of Human Life) is an encyclical written by Pope Paul VI and issued on 25 July 1968. Subtitled On the Regulation of Birth, it re-affirms the orthodox teaching of the Catholic Church regarding married love, responsible parenthood, and the continued rejection of artificial forms of birth control.
This is the document we need to go to as Catholics to get our understanding of contraception and the contraceptive mentality that has now become policy in our government. Paul VI is very cogent, concise, and clear on the teaching of the Church regarding abortion and contraception. There's no ambiguity about it; both are objectively immoral and sinful.
The book is amazing because it was written in 1968 and the Pope made accurate predictions about what would happen to society if people began the widespread use of contraception. This letter, because of its highfalutin translation, is best when coupled with the CD by Professor Janet Smith called "Contraception: Why Not."
"Humanae Vitae" is not reducible to the regulation of births or "birth control" in the same way that "Laudato Si'" is not reducible to "the environment." It is about much, much more: namely, how to love in a radical way.
The teaching of the Church presented in a clear, reasonable, logical, and charitable way. It's hard to believe that maligners of this teaching would remain vehemently hostile after reading this little book.
A compelling case against artificial birth control. I will have to re-read this soon. I would also like to get the reader edited by Janet Smith published by Ignatius, along with her book published by Catholic U.
