https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/310039.The_Berenstain_Bears_No_Girls_Allowed
My parents often read this book to me when I was a child, probably because I had a younger sister who would tag along when I visited friends...
As an adult reading the book to my own son, I regret that the target of the lesson is not more clear.
However, Mama Bear's lectures and the book's resolution put the blame on sister for not being a more agreeable companion.
Maybe both lessons are apt, or maybe the book would make more sense with a new title: "The Berenstain Bears and the Sore Loser."
This was the first book I ever read. I had my parents read it to me so many times that I memorized all the words.
No girls aloud how ever was extreamly special because the book grab the reader.
There is a level of predictability because the boys build a fort and put a sign out frunt that says no girls aloud.
Well sister bear and her friends dont like this at all and run and tell mom and pappa.
So at this point the reader knows that somthing is going to happen to brother and his friends.
Pappa bear then desides to build a fort for the girls.
Over all it is a great book.
The Berenstain Bears No Girls Allowed: Sister can climb higher, run faster, and even hit a ball further than all the boys.
So they decide to make a fort, where there are no girls allowed!
This makes Sister and her friends very upset, so she goes and tells Papa and Mama bear.
Now Sister really has something cooking up...The Berenstain books are always thoughtful and valuable books to read.
At that age boys and girls seem to be at complete war.
This can teach them to be fair and kind, as well as, letting the children know that sometimes people are going to be better at things than you; boy or girl.
★★★★★The Berenstain Bears No Girls Allowed by Stan and Jan Berenstain(view spoiler)[Sister Bear always wants to tag along and play with Brother Bear and his friends.
One day he gets annoyed and they make a club house, with a sign NO GIRLS ALLOWED posted on the out side.
So Mama and Papa help her build her own club house, for the girl cubs.
They grill up some yummy honey salmon kabobs for the girls.
The boy cubs smell them and want to play with the girls again.
I think that I have read every Berenstain Bears book at least 3 times. I was obsessed. I especially like this one because I am the only girl with two brothers. This book really teaches about how girls can be just as good as boys at "boy" things. And just because a girl is better at a boy, at say running, doesn't mean that he should get mad at her. Boys and girls should always be treated equally. I think this book really does a good job at addressing equality between sexes.
My wife subjected me to this book because I consistently beat her in all her favorite games. I like the Bernstein bears ok, but I couldn't help but feel that the message was little girls shouldn't beat little boys at things. And where I come from, if you're not war whooping, you're not playing. So, eh. And it wasn't nearly as awesome as other picture books. This is one I won't be reading to the kids...
A good attempt, but the authors/story still cater to narrow-mindedness when Mother & Papa Bear stooping to the boys' level and agreeing it's upsetting for a girl to be able to outrun, out-climb, and out-hit the boys. Some contradiction in trying to be welcoming and not gender exclusive with that obvious mess up.
It's really too bad I didn't have these as a kid, because I'm positive I would have spent hours just enjoying the illustrations.
Brother Bear makes a boys only club, so sister gets even in a funny way.
my fave so far, but the title is not fair.it should be NO BOYS ALLOWED.

The sweetest Bears who are always learning a lesson!I’ve always loved The Berenstain Bears books growing up and now that I have children I couldn’t be happier to share my love for these stories with them! No Girls Allowed is the very first Berenstain Bears book I ever read so of course it’s always been my favorite! I just finished reading it to my daughter and she fully understood the lesson brother and sister bear learned in this sweet children’s book. I highly recommend reading all Berenstain Bears books to children of any age.
The Berenstain Bears books are great to read for any generation. I had pulled these out to look at them again, and I was instantly going down memory lane. The illustrations are great, and the story always has a moral. The no girls allowed story really brought back memories of building a fort out in the woods. The fort that the boys build is what every child dreams of, and the girls build one that is equally as cool. What a great story to read and share with others.
Sister has always been a tag a long for Brother and his friends. But as she grew up she became better than the boys and it wasn't fun for the boys anymore. So they went off and built a clubhouse and a sign for 'no girls allowed'. After Sister starts crying and says it's no fair. Mama with her wisdom to Sister and Papa help them (and Brother) to see that inclusion is always best not 'do unto others' ...
This book starts with male excellence, then featuring the best of feminism and ends in equality/humanism. Maybe that's how it will work with us people in real life. I loved knowing that Sister eventually quickened to outrun and outmaneuver her male comrades. Yes, she was a bad winner. But girls win so rarely and Sister Bear is no more than 6 or 7 years old. So I forgive her for her braggadacio. A helpful book for boys and girls!
Sister Bear loves to hang out with Brother Bear and his friends, but she starts to out run them and beat them at all the games. Brother Bear and his friends can handle that, but it's Sister Bear's braggy show when she wins that makes them decide to start a club with NO GIRLS ALLOWED. Mother Bear comes up with a solution!
Sister Bear forms a "no boys allowed club" when she is rejected from Brother Bear's "no girls allowed" club. Sister Bear's club is more appealing to everyone, so the boys and the girls make a compromise and learn to play together.
Don’t over celebrate your victory. Be humble. Be a bigger person and share.
Great read for kids. Also good for if a kid is being excluded from something. They grow up so fast. This book really is one any child would enjoy.
Alissa really took this to heart and played the "No Boys" game for weeks. How unfortunate!
Read this to first graders tonight. It is a great story that teaches kids to dispel prescribed limitations based on gender and to take the high route when others go low.
*Coming Soon*
A favorite! My sister and I loved the forts the bears made and tried making ones of our own.Ages: 4 - 8
I read many books as a child with a mother who was librarian and elementary teacher. I had all these. I never liked them. They were strange to me.
This is a pretty well done book which examines the question quite pointedly as to just exactly why some boys don't want to play with girls.

Modern Fantasy Grades: P-2This book, like many other of the Berenstain Bears books has a few valuable lessons that can be taught to both boys and girls alike. This particular book was a great way to teach children not to gloat and not to expect girls or boys specifically to be better at any one thing. This was a great book about treating boys and girls equally and would be great to read before recess or gym class. Personally, I enjoyed this book, as well as the classic illustrations which are bright and keep the reader paying attention.
And back when the first grandchildren (for one set of grands) were born, everyone jumped up to buy books for the little stinkers.Grandparents!
The buyers of said book series are auspicious and highly literate people, and they love these bears.
If you can live with it as the "it" book ("Read it again!) buy it.
If you think you will moan in pain if you have to have the experience more than once, get something different.If I ever have grandchildren, I will have a wonderful collection to read to the child(ren).
Of course, they'd probably gloat if they beat her, but that's never mentioned because there is no place for complex gender dynamics in the Berenstain Bears.
The boys build their own clubhouse and ban girls from entering.
All the girls band together and build an tree fort much cooler than the boys' clubhouse.
My favorite part of the story is when the boys smell the food and have to beg the girls to let them up.
There is a place for complex gender dynamics in Berenstain Bears because you get them right here.
If any pretentious college students even wanted to, they could definitely argue a feminist message.
