https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/167587.Summer_and_Smoke
Alma, whose name means "soul" in Spanish, is a sensitive, virtuous woman concerned with the spiritual side of life, but sexually repressed.Her neighbor, John, is a physician and grew up in a home containing his father's medical office.
Alma, who had been hysterical and repressed, tells John, "But now the Gulf wind has blown that feeling away, like a cloud of smoke." They have been transformed and come full circle.
The author seems to be saying that both the spiritual and the physical are necessary to be a complete person.The set shows the rectory on one side, and the doctor's office on the other side of the stage.
Ich habe das Gefühl in Tennessee Williams' Dramen herrscht stets eine unangenehme, schwüle Hitze, die gen Ende entweder durch einen Wolkenbruch oder wie hier mit einem eisigen Dezemberwind aufgelöst wird.
Sie tauschen sozusagen die Plätze, wobei letztlich die Frage offen bleibt, wer von Beiden als Gewinner hervorgeht, d.h. wer wird mit seinem Leben glücklich und zufrieden sein.Hervorzuheben ist für mich die Szene, in der John und Alma an der Karte des menschlichen Körpers stehen und hitzig darüber debattieren, wie ihr Körper funktioniert.
Yes 5 stars because sometimes you just want to!It's a beautifully rendered love story with fully developed characters. It's straightforward, focused and touching. Yet there is much to like in the execution: the dialogue is spot on and, for the first time, the stage directions are brilliant in their simplicity, helping me visualise every action. I love how I could care for both Alma and John, they are opposites, so the attraction is strong but the chance of success minimal, yet the journey that unfolds is what counts.
rate 3+
I've read some reviews here comparing Alma to Blanche, and Johnny to Stanley, but I don't think it fits very well at all.
I think Alma feels much more real than Blanche ever did.
For me, Blanche was always more of an idea than a person.
I could see Brando playing Johnny, but he would come over more like the Brando of Guys and Dolls, than anything out of Streetcar.I also love the basic idea of this play.
Through their interaction, they both switch their personality -- he represses his love of pleasure, while she opens up to hers.
One of my top five Tenn plays. Always makes me think of the beginning of autumn, when the days are crisp and regrets felt more keenly. Alma is a vastly under-appreciated Williams heroine, and I would argue she's up there with Blanche and Maggie. Four stars.
بالمعنى الأصلي للإبتذال...هنا طوال الرواية لدينا ابنة القسيس التي تحب ابن الطبيب حبا عذريا و لكن ابن الطبيب لا يفكر سوى في الجنس و بالتالي تختلف الرغبات!
في المقابل ابنة القسيس تظل تحاول ان تجذب الشاب للحب العذري و لكن بلا أمل..و في النهاية تحدث المفاجاة غير المقنعة بالمرة بأن تصبح الفتاة هى التي ترغب في الجنس و الفتى يرفض هذا بل و يتزوج فتاة أخرى لأن ابنة القسيس أثرت في حياته لدرجة أنه أصبح يحب الفتاة الأخرى حبا عذريا؟!!!!!!!!!!!
She is in love with a doctor who fancies the superficial life and Alma is a minister's daughter, very prim and proper.One of the saddest lines in the play is: "The tables have turned, the tables have turned with a vengence."The doctor and Alma keep missing each other, their paths crossing, but as each represents extremes, they don't catch up until it's too late.
Alma comes around to him and his sexuality too late.The end of the play never stops breaking my heart.
She ends up going off with a traveling salesman; her life is over in her mind, so why not give in to all base temptation.Spectacular!!!!!
فاقتنع بان هذا الحب لا يصلح الا ان يكون روحيا خالصا فهى ملائكيه و انه لا يستحقهاو تأتى النهاية المفاجئة و هى ان (الما) الان مستعده لان ترضى من تحب (جون) باى وسيله و يتوقع القارئ نهاية سعيدة لقصه الحب الجميله و لكن النهايه الصامده هى ان يتزوج (جون) من (نيلى) تلميذه (الما) الفاشله الساذجه و نجد ان (الما) تتقمص شخصيه (جون) و تقتنع بافكاره و تتجه الى الضياع الحقيقى لتشبع الجسد و فقطتثير المسرحيه فى نفس القارئ تساؤلات عديدة حول سبب فشل قصه الحب التى بدأت جميله ...منها ..هل ما يحدث هو قدر او هو فشل انسانى مسئول عنه الطرفين ام ان (جون) و( الما) لا يصلح كلاهما للاخر رغم وجود الحباعتقد ان الكاتب قصد ان يصدم القراء بهذه النهايه المؤلمه حتى يقول ان فشل قصص الحب المتكرر يحدث عندما لا يراعى احد الطرفين مشاعر و احتياجات الاخر و تملكه الانانيه لارضاء رغباته و فقط و ان على الطرفين ان يتلاقا فى منتصف الطريق.
I love this story. Out of the Tennessee Williamses that I've read or seen (Streetcar, Glass Menagerie, Eccentricities, this), this is definitely my favorite. The story is beautiful yet, in many places, heartbreaking. I sympathize with Alma so much; she is very like me in many ways. And I just love the way that (view spoiler)[everything comes full circle in the end. I love how John and Alma switch places. (hide spoiler)] There's a sort of flow and a feeling of wholeness and finality to the whole
I love this story.
I sympathize with Alma so much; she is very like me in many ways.
And I just love the way that (view spoiler)[everything comes full circle in the end.
I love how John and Alma switch places.
And, in the words of my acting teacher, "You can't say Tennessee Williams doesn't know how to write dialogue." Man, the dialogue is good.
My review loses a star based on personal preference alone (because the question is "How much did you like this book?" not "How good is it?"); I don't think there is anything I would change about the play.Notes:-The Eccentricities of a Nightingale is Williams's rewrite of this.
I like this play, but it falls apart near the end with John and Rosa's party and fallout. Alma's an interesting character, but the play feels off a bit. I get why John feels the way he does at the end, but I agree with Williams' assessment of it being way too melodramatic (and this is Williams saying it!) and at points cliched. It's a good play, and the film version is surprisingly good (and faithful), but the revised version Eccentricities of a Nightingale is vastly superior and makes this one more of a curiosity piece for Williams completists.
My favorite TW play (just consult the entire thesis I dedicated to exploring Alma Winemiller and the women of Tennessee Williams).
Baskıcı tükenmiş olduğu için güç bela bulduğum bir oyun oldu; fakat tüm arayışlarıma değmiş. Williams, insan üzerine gerçekten çok iyi gözlemler, analizler yapan ve bunu oyunlarında çok iyi veren bir yazar. Bu oyunda da ustaca çizilmiş karakterler okuyorsunuz. Ben de çok severek okudum!
Summer And SmokeI have seen and read Tennessee Williams' play "Summer and Smoke" several times and the work has stayed with me.
She indignantly refuses.The critical scene of the play occurs when a drunken, dissipated John shows Alma a chart of the human anatomy.
(This scene gave the play its original title, "Chart of Anatomy".) John shows Alma the brain the belly, and the lower part: "this part down here is the sex which is hungry for love because it is sometimes lonesome." John says he has fed his desires while Alma has refused to recognize hers.
It also reveals how differing faiths can prevent understanding and honest communication between two people who would otherwise connect seemlessy.
Alma and John’s hopeless romance is heartbreaking, as this kind of event occurs in life all the time.
Love is painful...language and communication skills could be a remedy.
Alma puts her faith in the mysterious, the unknown, but maybe she should focus it on the actual people in her life, like John.
The point of faith is love, not fear, but Alma operates from a place of fear.
For someone so devout, she misses the point of faith.
Genuinely heart-wrenching, but also freeing. Williams explores the chance we get to choose our own fate and the ability to resist that ability - how we weigh this freedom (or trapping) against our beliefs, desires and inner convictions.Alma and John have deep love for each other, but it clashes with both of their inner natures. Alma pursues the soul, and John pursues pleasure. After a fateful misadventure, their roles and beliefs fundamentally change.
There's a lot of passion lurking beneath the surface in this play. It doesn't end the way that I want it to, but the writing, the drama, the connection to these characters are all part of why I love plays by Tennessee Williams. Definitely glad I read it.
هرگز مگو عشق مال توست عشق كه هرگز نگفت ميتواند باشد از آن باد آرامي كه ميگذرد در سكوت ناديدني به عشقم گفتم، به عشقم گفتم تمام قلبم را به او گفتم. لرزان، سرد، در هراسي مخوف عشق من رخت بربست و رفت او پيش از من نرفته بود تا غريبه از كنارش بگذرد در سكوت و ناديدني و به چنگش آورد با يك آه.
هرگز مگو عشق مال توست عشق كه هرگز نگفت مي‌تواند باشد از آن باد آرامي كه مي‌گذرد در سكوت ناديدني به عشقم گفتم، به عشقم گفتم تمام قلبم را به او گفتم. لرزان، سرد، در هراسي مخوف عشق من رخت بربست و رفت او پيش از من نرفته بود تا غريبه از كنارش بگذرد در سكوت و ناديدني و به چنگش آورد با يك آه.
4.5/5
Fine
I wasn’t enthralled but I’m sure a good production could hang my mind. Mostly subtle but with a nice message about the importance of balance.
read for my acting class, it was a good time
Every time I read a Williams play I think he can't possibly tear my heart out more than he has already and then he does. Beautiful, lyrical, heartbreaking.
The doomed love story and its dichotomy between main characters Alma (representing old-fashioned Southern values a la Blanche) and John (representing animal instincts and urges a la Stanley) is never as frighteningly visceral and dark as the clashing of the ideologies in STREETCAR, but it's just as powerfully sad and emotional in SUMMER AND SMOKE's altered setting for two similar larger-than-life personalities.Williams tried to fix Alma's similarity to Blanche when he re-wrote SUMMER AND SMOKE as THE ECCENTRICITIES OF A NIGHTINGALE but in doing so robbed the play of all its urgency and beauty.
I just never felt like I cared about what happened to the two main characters.
Alma's in love with Johnny but they obviously come from two different worlds and don't quite meet up, although by the end of the play they see the value in the others way of looking at life.
The change is sudden, it doesn't feel developed, because it happens completely off stage.
Being that several months have passes we have no idea what caused Alma to look at the world differently - with Johnny we can assume it's his father.
The ending just felt awkward to me.
He trusts his writing and doesn't feel the need to push things along any faster than they need to go.
I don't know that he was trying to make things particularly shocking, but certain moments didn't land as heavily since some of the wind had been taken out of their sails.
All the same, some moments fell a tad short and I think it could have been avoided.That said, I'd give many of my possessions to have the writing talent of Tennessee Williams.
Recently I read Paul Bowels autobiography and learned that he was friends with Tennessee Williams and wrote the scores to several of his plays including, Summer And Smoke (1948).
Williams has a knack for creating delicate southern belles with neurotic demons and Alma is yet another such creation-a delicate, puritanical, nervous affected daughter of a minister-headed straight for spinsterhood.
It has been said that Williams was found of the character Alma, but he thought the play itself was too melodramatic.
I don't think this is among his greatest plays, but even lesser Williams is worthwhile.
Not as epic of an accomplishment as Williams's Streetcar Named Desire or The Glass Menagerie, but great nonetheless.
Less about the evils that humans can enact upon one another, as in Streetcar, but the grand, unintentioned cruelties and the "little mercies" given to us for comfort from them.
Interestingly, the ending provides a possible segue into Streetcar's plot, though obviously only thematically, not directly.
Like all of Williams' works, though, his masterful feeling for the way that people simply talk to each other provides the greatest strength; his dialogue is far more realistic-feeling than Arthur Miller's in Death of a Salesman, for example, even if Williams' works don't reach the same epic heights of Americana unleashed.

This is a good play. Its main problem is that it contains themes and plot structure that Mr. Williams did better in  The Glass Menagerie  and  A Streetcar Named Desire . Still Mr. Williams had a gift for dramatizing the beleagured female spirit who wanders the American landscape desperate and bereft. If you've read or seen either of the above plays, then you might enjoy this one.
