https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32943032-a-map-of-days
Even though I haven't read a book by Ransom in three years, cracking this open to page one felt like returning to an old friend and delving back into a story i'd only just put down.
It brings up issues of identity and lost love and the complications that come with time travel that haven't been addressed in previous books, especially in previously uncharted territories like America.
Wow have I been living under a rock this all time? I had no idea this existed.
And so our trilogy continues into book 4!
Well if you are on to a good thing why not?I enjoyed this one nearly as much as the very first book.
And how does he cope when he thinks you still love his (dead) granddad.
This is the sort of problem you can come across when you used to live in a time loop.There's an excellent story, more of those lovely, weird photos and a fantastic ending which leaves the door wide open for more great action.
I am already looking forward to book 5!
Apparently we aren't done yet with Creepy Vintage Photos..We are gladly will have a new adventure with the Peculiars..in Modern Times in America this time..And we really can't wait to be back to our...Peculiardom..
I was so nervous that this book would be worlds different from the original trilogy but it wasn't, it was perfect.Firstly, the characters, oh my goodness, I love them so much.
They are all so unique in their own little ways and it makes my heart very happy.Going into this book, I hadn't the slightest clue what it was about, I just adore this series so much I didn't care, I just needed to be with the characters in a new story but I was not disappointed.
We get to know a completely different side of the peculiar world and it was so, so, amazing!
NO.
DECEASED.The fourth book in Riggs' signature series plays out a bit like Iron Gold for me in that it's long and a little bit on the slow side sometimes, but it does a great job of expanding the world as built in the original trilogy too.
A Map of Days is Ransom Riggs' most timely novel yet, and I'll be eagerly awaiting the fifth book in the series - though remembering the long gaps between books in the original trilogy, it'll be an unbearable wait.
The slight difference in the color of this book compared to the original trilogy is making me seriously uncomfortable.
5/5 stars ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐Guess who's gonna age forward 10 years waiting for the 5th book in this series?Favorite Quotes:"It's strange, what the mind can digest and what it resists." "There was something in the act of shouting along to that particular song with these particular people while driving that particular car that gave me a crazy, spine-tingling high like I'd never experienced before.
This is one of my favorite series, so I was already a bit biased going into this one, but I enjoyed seeing all of the characters we already know and love in a new setting!
When I started this book my main thought was "this is way to big". After finishing it all I can think about is how I want more. This book definitely has a different feel than the previous trilogy, but in all the best ways. It is a great continuation of the story. You get so wrapped up in the world that the pages just fly by. I'm excited to see where the series will go from here!
I hardly ever cry when it comes to books. But did I cry when I found out that Ransom Riggs was working on A Map of Days?  You bet I did.   (You can read the complete review on my blog!)MY RATING: This novel follows the events in the previous three books. Go read those first for the best results! The plot built up pretty slowly, but it continued to get more interesting along the way. At about page 400, the plot just… well, the only way I can describe it is like this:  if the first 400 pages was l
(You can read the complete review on my blog!)MY RATING: This novel follows the events in the previous three books.
- If you think the peculiars would have difficult yet hilarious times getting to know modern America, you would be 100% correct.
- Jacob, who continues to be one of my favorite characters and is secretly the male embodiment of myself.- The pictures!
That’s what this book is like.- While I think the idea of Jacob and the peculiars trying to live in the modern world is fun, it is very truly… different than the other books.
When it comes to out there stories it is not hard to be taken in by Miss Peregrine's Peculiar Children series.
Over three installments Miss Peregrine, Jacob Portman and the rest of the ragtag crew have fought all manner of beasts and enemies with their abilities and now back in the present, it is time for Jacobs friends to adjust.
With the prospect of the boring run of the mill jobs assigned by Miss Peregrine to look forward to Jacob will jump at the chance to find and rescue an “uncontacted” peculiar girl.
For anyone immersed in the world of Jacob and his friends, this will feel right at home.
3.5⭐The peculiars need to figure out how to live in the real world. It was cute and funny but I wasnt in the mood for it I think so I will reread the whole series and try again later on and hopefully enjoy it more.
3.5⭐️The peculiars need to figure out how to live in the real world. It was cute and funny but I wasnt in the mood for it I think so I will reread the whole series and try again later on and hopefully enjoy it more.
UM.WAIT. WHATTT??ANOTHER TRILOGY?sign me up please :D
TMR !Oh my gosh! The title. The cover. I'm dying.Every author I know has planned to release the new trilogy of the series that I've been following, but it's okay as it means I have something to read and look forward to for the next three years, at least.*I'm soooooooooooo ready for this btw*
LOVED THIS!I didn’t realise how much I missed this world and it’s characters. Riggs’s writing is wonderful and paints the most vivid action and atmospheric scenes. Simply put, a captivating, magical, hypnotic and enchanting read. Full RTC
I am a bit wary and a whole lot excited for this one.
***3.5 stars***Miss Peregrine’s peculiar children have now become her angsty teens.
In A Map of Days we are thrust into the aftermath of the events in the Library of Souls and the peculiar children coming to terms with living in the modern age.
Additionally, the peculiar universe is expanded by exploring the American time loops.
It’s very much the Wild West in the American loops and its every peculiar for themselves.
I think the European loops were a bit more welcoming of outsiders and Miss Peregrine’s children literally have no idea what they were getting themselves into.
However, I’m not 100% sure the Miss Peregrine’s series needed a continuation.
They are still peculiar - or are having peculiar abilities.Nevertheless, one battle is over and we must look for new ones. The book IS well written, but whereas the first 3 books in the series had a momentum of their own, this one is getting increasingly more YA focused.Where to put ones loyalty, how to handle the experiences you have when you feel really "grown up" and is still treated like a child etc. Nothing wrong about this, just be careful it doesnt become so mainstream YA that the peculia
They are still peculiar - or are having peculiar abilities.Nevertheless, one battle is over and we must look for new ones. The book IS well written, but whereas the first 3 books in the series had a momentum of their own, this one is getting increasingly more YA focused.Where to put one´s loyalty, how to handle the experiences you have when you feel really "grown up" and is still treated like a child etc. Nothing wrong about this, just be careful it doesn´t become so mainstream YA that the peculiarity it all builds upon is lost.
Qui vengono a contatto con i concetti di proprietà, diversità e razzismo.Un’altro aspetto positivo del libro è che si vede un minimo di crescita nel protagonista che finalmente prende in mano la situazione e cerca di imparare dai fallimenti.
Detto questo, questo libro rimane per me solo una storia extra, come un seguito dei film Disney.
And I love how it allowed for that important chat between Emma and Jacob, I definitely found their discussions to be very bittersweet, and I couldn’t decide who to side with, because I understood both their feelings where Abe was concerned.Bronwyn and Millard had always been my favourite characters throughout the first three installments in the series, so I was happy that both of them had significant page time throughout this book!
After 4 books Enoch still annoyed me.
I don't know why his character is still an annoying one and doesn't have any development.
This book wasn't interesting enough for me.
I think one of it was because Abe kept showing up in some way and he kept being this brilliant person who somehow managed to prepare everything for the future.
There are still good parts to read and overall I still enjoy it so if you love the first 3 books and you are dying to know what happens to the gang after Library of Souls this book is for you.
OH. MY. JESUS. MORE MISS PEREGRINE AND PECULIARS. I CAN’T BREATH.
SINCE WHEN IS THIS A THING? WHAT? THE? HELL?
Ma le cose stanno per cambiare e diventare davvero Speciali: tutti i ragazzi dell'anello di Miss Peregrine, con tanto di ymbrine, piombano a casa di Jacob, che si vede costretto a tentare di conciliare le sue due vite, Normale e Speciale, prima del previsto.E quando alcuni segreti su nonno Abe e sui suoi compagni cominciano ad emergere, be', i nostri amici non si tireranno di certo indietro, anzi, si getteranno a capofitto nell'America Speciale, profondamente diversa dall'organizzata Europa: in America, infatti, esistono regole tutte nuove, mentre le ymbrine sembrano potersi contare sulle dita di una mano.Cosa (non) accadrà durante questa avventura on the road?Parlando del libro in generale, durante la lettura dei primissimi capitoli ero un po' scettico: leggere il libro era sì piacevole, ma la nuova ambientazione, la nuova situazione non mi convincevano.
I AM SCREECHING THERE IS A TITLE, RELEASE DATE, AND COVER
Ohmygodohmygod A cover! Peculiars in modern time! I need this right now!
And that's not to mention the Five Boroughs were in the book for like 15 pages.The reason why Hollow City's and Library of Souls' scenarios worked is because they had legitimate weight and tension.
I'd say 3 out of 50-so new characters were actually interesting.I could be very wrong here, but it feels like Ransom had made a huge list of potential characters before finishing the first book and realized the majority could not fit into the plot of any in the trilogy.
I didn’t even know this existed!!
A 4th book?? Start of a new trilogy?? Did not see this coming...but I am intrigued.
