https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6013438-tradition-and-the-individual-talent
Eliot talks of two things here:1) The importance of "tradition" i.e. all the literature of the past and how its knowledge is necessary for any true artist.
Also, Eliot argues against the Romantic theory of poetry established by Wordsworth and the dictum:Poetry is the spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings.For Eliot:Poetry is not a turning loose of emotion, but an escape from emotion; it is not the expression of personality but an escape from personality.I might not agree completely but Eliot argues well and very eloquently.
Anyways for a mere essay, this is very thought-provoking and interesting and it is recommended to all those who have an interest in literary theory.
A very concise, yet thorough examination of poetics that absolutely must be taken in the context of the Modernist movement. This essay helped to establish Eliot's role as poetic critic, and provides thoughtful commentary on how to judge poet and poem separately, and in proper context.Looks at identifying the poet's place in history, the place of emotion vs. feeling in a poem, the duty of poet to himself and his reader, and the necessity of "depersonalization."
But, of course, only those who have personality and emotions know what it means to want to escape from these things.I’m told T.S. Eliot remains the most important Anglo-American poet-critic of the twentieth century.
He wants artists to incorporate all that’s great in their tradition, while adding something unique to challenge it.
While outlining the artist and tradition relationship in the first portion, he now claims that it’s in the artist’s best interest to subsume his personality into his creation.
As this occurs the poet should experience what Eliot calls an "extinction of personality" as their personal thoughts and feelings disappear and they become a mere vessel in service of working with and developing tradition.The second uses the scientific process of catalysis as a metaphor to describe the processes which govern this.
By analogy, if you mix tradition with the thoughts and impressions stored in a poet's mind (also a catalyst) it will produce an altered tradition.
Just as there is no trace of the catalyst platinum left in sulphurous acid, there is no trace of the poet's mind in tradition.
Read as research for my Language-Writing-Reading essay
Eliot is just chaaaa-rming
Simply put, anyone who says they read modern literature must have read this essay, otherwise it is mere scan reading.
Elliot says that a poet must be aware of emotions that have been previously expressed in other poems of the past. He describes the act of writing poetry as “escaping from emotion and personality.” That by knowing what past poets have done, making new words for new emotions, and seeking to escape tradition - the poet can use their poetry to serve the subsequent generations.
"And he is not likely to know what is to be done unless he lives in what is not merely the present, but the present moment of the past, unless he is conscious, not of what is dead, but of what is already living."
idk how much i agree, but it was an interesting read regardless.
Great essay by one of the greatest poets of the 20th century.
If not only for this little gem: " Poetry is not a turning loose of emotion, but an escape from emotion; it is not the expression of personality, but can escape from personality.
But, of course, only those who have personality and emotions know what it means to want to escape from these things."First time reading one of Eliot's essays, and it offered great insight into the writer and his vision for the modernist movement in poetry more specifically.
If anything, this essay solidifies his standing and his reputation among the greatest writers of the modernist era.
I read this essay because it was mentioned in my current class, and I wanted to read the rest of it to get the overall concept.The point seems to be that it is important to consider the present in light of the past; that in fact one's own work alters a whole that was timelessly complete already and makes it a new kind of timelessly complete.In my Theology of the Church class, the professor made the point that the church has a vast multitude of members, and the majority of them are dead.
But until we join them in Heaven, we still realize that we are a part not only of this generation, but of all the collective generations gone before.
It boggles the mind!
Ensayo que aborda la opinión del significado de la poesía, el sentimiento y emoción,y dónde reside esa transmisión artística en el arte cómo estética y relación que contiene al poeta/artista con su particular transmisión de arte individual. Así cómo la tradición (artística), como una forma de cohesión individual y general en todas sus épocas históricas, y esa responsabilidad por parte del artista de asumirla consciente
Very interesting! Also, was there an attack on Romanticism or is it just me?Because what remained in me after all this reading, was that Poets should be impersonal and should try to create Art emotions as opposed to regular, human emotions; while, from what I understood of Romanticism, Wordsworth et al believe in the value of 'realistic' emotions in poetry, furthermore, with simple words that describe the feeling as naturaly as it occurs within us.
I am reading it for an assignment, so far his impersonal theory of poetry seems good. I like the concept that poet should create in heat but correct at leisure and lick his poems into shape. Eliot himself followed the same principle in creating immortal poetry such as his poem "The Waste Land", its final revision is quite precise as compared to his first attempt at it.
“The emotion of art is impersonal. And the poet cannot reach this impersonality without surrendering himself wholly to the work to be done. And he is not likely to know what is to be done unless he lives in what is not merely the present, but the present moment of the past, unless he is conscious, not of what is dead, but of what is already living.”
I usually don't rate non-fiction but here I made an exception because I hate Eliot and the convulted, pretentious way he writes, even in his damn essays. This essay could be two sentences long if Eliot didn't relish in his writing so much.
"Poetry is not a turning loose of emotion, but an escape from emotion; it is not the expression of personality, but an escape from personality. But, of course, only those who have personality and emotions know what it means to want to escape from these things"
One of my favourite lines: Poetry is not a turning loose of emotion, but an escape from emotion; it is not the expression of personality, but an escape from personality. But, of course, only those who have personality and emotions know what it means to want to escape from these things.
I was really tired when I first read it so I think it deserves a second reading.
Essential reading for every artist.
such a dominant figure in modernist literature..truly inspiring !
A very important essay to read if you are going to be writing poetry or criticizing it.
Rather complex writing. In Eliot's view writers always should be contrasted with others that has been before.
