https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18659623-through-the-woods
This book freaked my shit out.Yeah.
How's that for a blurb?
"This freaked my shit out."  - Patrick RothfussThe truth is, this book is amazing.
I've read a lot of great comics this last year, and out of all of them, this is the one that had the most profound emotional effect on me.
It's not gory, or graphic.
unsettling.
It's creepy.
It's like the darkest of the old-school faerie tales.I read it at night before I was going to go to bed.
I had to read something else to settle myself down first.
I'm 40 years old.
I feel like this is something I will go back to and reread a few times, but I am slightly terrified to do so...
It’s not often that I take the time to read and admire graphic novels and there are multiple styles of drawings that I am still not used to, but this is one I found uniquely beautiful and would gladly see more of.The writing was simplistic but, sincerely, it worked with every single thing.
Plus, the author noticeably surpassed herself with the graphics in that short story in question.It is true that I found this graphic novel to be one of the best I have ever read, for how monopolized by it I was the whole reading time, but there is something that displeased me inside it: every short story ended on a cliffhanger.
if i were judging this book solely on its artwork, it would be an easy five stars. there are five main stories, plus an introduction and a conclusion, each with their own style of illustration. it's not that i love them all equally, but i do generally appreciate range and variety :     in a way, it kind of reminded me of fear(s) of the dark, a film in which several different illustrators bring their own brand of creepy to life through unique animation stylings: this book is obviously more limit
in a way, it kind of reminded me of fear(s) of the dark, a film in which several different illustrators bring their own brand of creepy to life through unique animation stylings: this book is obviously more limited in its range because it is all coming from a single imagination, but as far as artwork goes, i dig it
there's an olde timey new england vibe to it, and while i don't think it's actually based on anything, it feels like a mashup of a bunch of different stories, like something that would be read aloud in a spoooooky voice during a haunted hayride right before costumed people come running out of the woods all clawing and moaning to the delighted shrieks of girl scouts.
A set of five short little horror stories. Everyone loves this book.Everyone says don't read these at dark.I thought I would flip out over this book. I didn't.I think I may not be the target audience for something like this. I'm not really a fan of short stories. At least the ones that have no definite endings.  It does have some awesome artwork though. I think if I had read these when I was a teenager I went have went bonkers over them. But my old jaded ass just didn't care for it now because i
A set of five short little horror stories.
Everyone loves this book.Everyone says don't read these at dark.I thought I would flip out over this book.
I didn't.I think I may not be the target audience for something like this.
I'm not really a fan of short stories.
At least the ones that have no definite endings.
It does have some awesome artwork though.
I think if I had read these when I was a teenager I went have went bonkers over them.
But my old jaded ass just didn't care for it now because it takes more than spaghetti head to scare me now.
This is one of the CREEPIEST most BEAUTIFUL most MYSTICAL most TERRIFYING things I have EVER READ.That's really all I can say. Go read this. It's utterly enchanting.The artwork is magnificent. MAGNIFICENT. Every page was a marvel. And the stories are so entertaining and keep you so intrigued, and are so intense. And it's scary. Oh my god it's terrifying. One of the creepiest books I've ever read, but in a good way. My favourite story was "Our Neighbours House" but they were ALL GOOD. SO SO GOOD. A NEW FAVOURITE. WOW.
Definitely one of the creepiest books I've ever read - SHOULD NOT HAVE READ IT AT NIGHT.The art was beautiful and the stories were really great. Honestly, some of them, while being creepy, could be a metaphor for mental illness/depression (in a twisted way, yes, but still metaphors) which I found really interesting. Overall a really compelling read with a lot of different elements - most of them being TERRIFYING.DEFINITELY LEARN FROM ME AND DON'T READ THIS BOOK AT NIGHT OMG.
Loved the illustrations but didn't love the stories as much unfortunately :/
I like to leave books for our guests to enjoy while they stay with us.
We've been getting a lot of return guests ---people who come to town for business-and enjoy staying in our little retreat oasis- private quiet - their own warm pool and sauna.
I bought this graphic book because it can be read in one sitting --it's 'for' adults -'not' children .....and the graphics themselves are sooooo exceptional that even if not all 5 stories are phenomenal....
this book is enjoyable to read and LOOK AT!!!!I liked the first story very much -- called "Our Neighbor's House".
11/11/18: I reread this book because I reviewed and shared some of her free short stories here for Halloween, and because I read Speak: The Graphic Novel, which she illustrated for Laurie Halse Anderson.
Now, more than two years after I initially read it, I am feeling Carroll's groove.
I think she is one of the truly entertaining horror illustrators out there.1/29/15 (edited a bit for clarity): This did creep me out.
I wasn't sure of her audience, really--is it kids?
I think a lot of kids (and adults) will like it, too.
If there’s such thing as falling in love at first sight with graphics, I think I just experienced it.No, really.
How am I supposed to rate this beautiful set of short stories?
From the colors and brushes to the fonts used to relate her stories, she shows so much talent that I’m let in awe.
If two of the short stories were definitive 5 stars – the neighbor hat and the nesting place – others let me perplexed, especially because every one of them ended on a cliffhanger, which wasn’t always well-handled in my opinion.
Loved this!!! PERFECT book to read near Halloween!!!
This is my favorite art out of any graphic novel i've ever read! Although sometimes I was confused during this, I loved how I was so creeped out that I was nervous to turn the page. Honestly I would highly recommend this graphic novel because it's so neat. I thought I wouldn't like it because it's individual short stories, but I was wrong!
LOVED THE FIRST 2 STORIES:)Full review to come!
I want to panel my bedroom with the pages from this book - although that might disturb visitors.I adored the imagery and writing as a whole, but for over half of the stories, I felt the endings fell a bit flat.
That wasn't nearly as scary as I was expecting.
I love the color palettes she chose for each story; they work very well together.
They read like spooky folk tales, and while I wasn't particularly scared by them, they are rather creepy.
I felt like a few of the stories ended too abruptly though.
I would love for the author to make a longer, single scary story and really expand on what she has here.
There wasn't much dialogue either so it goes by really quickly and relies on the images to deliver the fright.
It was fun to read, but not particularly memorable to me.
I'd heard this graphic novel was creepy, but I don't think I'd realised just how creepy. I probably should have guessed when it said it was perfect for fans of Neil Gaiman. A collection of horror stories that all feature that epitome of childhood creepiness - the woods. The artwork style, simplistic and almost child-like adds to the tension, and Emily Carroll is not afraid of some blood and gore in her illustrations.This is a definite recommendation for fans of darker graphic novels, horror and especially for Halloween-time reads.
MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading ListTHIS BOOK IS SO COOL, CREEPY, AND GREAT GRAPHICS!I'm going to do each little story so here we go......OUR NEIGHBOR'S HOUSEOne day a father of three girls says he's going out hunting, he told the girls that if he didn't come back in three days to go to the neighbor's house.
IN CONCLUSIONThis is the story of a girl who lived at the edge of a forest and I'm guessing that is her father's house because he tells her to be careful of the woods on the way to her moms house because of the wolves.
This one is as darkly beautiful as it is beautifully dark. What more can a nefarious tyrant with a penchant for all things aesthetic ask for, I wonder? Not much, methinks. Not bloody shrimping much.The graphics and colors are scrumptiously delicious and deliciously scrumptious. Damn, the whole thing is so magnificently done even the fonts are yummy as shrimp. (Which is slightly outrageous, if you ask me.)Then there's the Sometimes Creepy Something Spooky Sometimes Serie Stuff (SCS™).There are ha
(Which is slightly outrageous, if you ask me.)Then there's the Sometimes Creepy Something Spooky Sometimes Serie Stuff (SCS⁵™).There are hatchet-wielding damsels in distress lovely yellow dresses.And friendly flappers with, errr, problematic dental hygiene.Then there are Somewhat Shook Up Maidens (SSUM™) who should stay at home and play whist or sew or embroider or some other fascinating occupation of the sort (like any proper, self-respecting, young Regency lady) instead of pretending she can speak to the dead and stuff.Oops.(“Serves the silly girl right,” is reported to have said Mrs Bennett when she heard of poor Janna's demise.)Things go bump 
Horror stories done stark and right, minimalist and tear-your-face-off creepy.Seriously.
Crazy solid scares, and now I've got a good book to read to my daughter once she finally stops needing to sleep with the light on.After all, we can't have our children growing up unafraid, now can we?(Puts on a wide brimmed hat and grins in such a way that all of his teeth gleam like piano keys.)Right?But my favorite story of all was the one that was told to the monster.
:)This is by far the most solid all-around tale(s) of horror I've ever read in a comic.
(hide spoiler)] And while I loved reading Janna's nonsensical notes, I wish they were explained more than just "Oh well Janna's gone bonkers look at this stupid stuff she's written".The Nesting Place★★★☆☆Mabel, nicknamed Bell, spends summer vacation at her older brother's house, ringed by ominous woods she's been warned to stay out of and an unsettling feeling from the cook, Madame Beauchamp, and Bell's brother's mysteriously cheery wife, Rebecca.This story is remarkable because it reads a lot like a book condensed into a few pages.
The final story I haven’t mentioned, In Conclusion, is straight up Red Riding Hood and has some stunning splash pages that look like concept art for the movie Avatar’s alien planet Pandora - using purple to colour trees and rocks at night?
The blues and yellows of A Lady’s Hands are Cold are made all the more powerful for not being colours you’d associate with a horror story, and the spare use of red against the black and white of Our Neighbor’s House is brilliant.
The more successful stories - Our Neighbor’s House and His Face All Red - are effective because the horror is less explicit/understandable.
I wasn't freaked out by this horror filled graphic novel and on the whole, I was quite disappointed.
I don't know if it was bad timing or anything but really, I didn't feel a single chill go through me.I honestly wanted to feel all the goosebumps and hear my heart go thud, thud, thud but yeah, I didn't get any of that.
I hoped at the end of each story that the next one was going to scare the shit out of me but the only story that kind of freaked me out a little was The Nesting Place.
However, I really enjoyed every single story and the illustrations were extremely gorgeous!
5/5 stars   Discover a terrifying world in the woods in this collection of five hauntingly beautiful graphic stories.
Or find yourself a young bride in a house that holds a terrible secret in “A Lady’s Hands Are Cold.” You might try to figure out what is haunting “My Friend Janna,” or discover that your brother’s fiancée may not be what she seems in “The Nesting Place.” And of course you must revisit the horror of “His Face All Red,” the breakout webcomic hit that has been gorgeously translated to the printed page.
Our Neighbor's House:  Probably my favorite short story in this collection.
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAEsse quadrinho é muito BOM. São vários contos de terror (uns são ok, mas outros são EXCELENTES) e o traço incrível da Emily Carroll funciona tão bem para dar ao leitor uma experiência assustadora, macabra e visualmente linda.Acho que tudo nesse livro é muito bem amarrado, porque as ilustração não funcionariam sem o texto bem escrito e envolvente, que não dá vontade de parar de ler nunca. A última história, The Nesting Place, foi minha favorita.
A deliciously creepy graphic novel with some absolutely beautiful artwork. I'm very glad I read this during the day because some of those stories were quite gruesome. Loved it!
“Oh, but you must travel through those woods again and again ... and you must be lucky to avoid the wolf every time ... But the wolf ... the wolf only needs enough luck to find you once.” My sister had gotten this book for Christmas––and today I picked it up because she'd told me it was really cool, and I've been trying to read more graphic novels.And HOLY CRAPPPP I loved this so much. I devoured the whole thing in one sitting; it was so gripping and terrifying that I couldn't put it down for a
and you must be lucky to avoid the wolf every time ...
But the wolf ...
the wolf only needs enough luck to find you once.”
My sister had gotten this book for Christmas––and today I picked it up because she'd told me it was really cool, and I've been trying to read more graphic novels.And HOLY CRAPPPP I loved this so much.
I devoured the whole thing in one sitting; it was so gripping and terrifying that I couldn't put it down for a second.Through The Woods is a series of five short horror stories, each told in a fairytale-like fashion.
That was really creepy. But also really amazing.
As time moves on the food gets eaten, the house grows cold and a man with a big toothy smile comes to them each night and each night one sister goes missing.
The last girl also talked about things like the food going missing (because they ate it), how cold the beds were now (her sister had died in them) and when she finally set out to the neighbor's it was much too late - she was also met with death.
The wife takes off down the road, past her husband who is returning from his trip and she soon hears his screams all the way down the road.
3,5* - the atmosphere and the art style are absolutely perfect and fitting for the stories. I just felt like the stories were a little too short.
