https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183425.Thermodynamics
A good intro. Old mathematical notation though.
Great, brief summary of the central postulates of thermodynamics, by Fermi himself.
Extremely lucid in its exposition: starts from basic axioms, and builds from there onwards; creating a connected and cohesive formulation of the theory. As a chemistry undergraduate, I found it a bit lacking in the chemical thermodynamics department; but I expected this, with the book being targeted primarily at physicists. Doesn't cover everything, but what it does cover, it does so more clearly than any other text I have come across.I highly recommend it.
It remains valuable as a clear and concise treatment, but, for the modern reader, it is more appropriate as a review than as an introduction. In addition to occasionally archaic terminology and notation, it is very much of the era when textbook authors were aware of the need to present the key information, but not especially aware of the need to teach it.
Each time I read this book I find the clarity of the exposition to be better and better. I am not sure if that is a sign of a good book or an increasing comfort level with the material. I often recommend this book to sophomores to begin looking at the "process of thinking thermodynamically" rather than for learning thermodynamics.
I remember thinking the math in this book was really fun to work through. The book is readable (a relative rarity in theoretical physics!), and provides a solid theoretical grounding in thermodynamics.
very clearly written and well explained thermodynamics fundamentals by great physicist Enrico Fermi. good to those seeking for deep understanding rather than just applications
Great and concise summary, but also very dated.
Reading this over winter break in anticipation of a thermodynamics and statistical physics course in the spring. This book is very clear but I'm not 'wowed' yet.
Just amazing. Brief summary of first year thermodynamics in university
very good
clear but too short and not too deep into the topics covered
An excellent introduction
