https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17334952-the-clockwork-man
So after a week or so to ponder this book I think I have figured out why I didn't like it.Ostensibly this book is about a 'Clockwork Man' who stumbles back through time from the far future and ends up in the middle of a 1920's English village; his appearance is then followed by the requisite shenanigans.
The appearance of the Clockwork Man (who, despite being the title of the book, is rarely on page) merely galvanizes a clash between the doctor and his friend.
One thing I liked about their format was the "If you liked author X, you'll enjoy author Y" recommendations.So, here goes on The Clockwork Man (about a fellow, when his mechanical parts are functioning properly, is able to navigate the "multiform" universe).
If you like the type of humorous tongue-in-cheek science fiction written by, say, Fredric Brown or Henry Kuttner (or earlier Albert Robida), then you most likely will enjoy E.V. Odle's The Clockwork Man.Of course, everyone's humor is different; Odle's could be classified as lighthearted, subtle and whimsical.
Brilliant and unjustly neglected novel from the mostly forgotten "radium age" between the scientific romance period of HG Wells and Jules Verne, and the golden age of science fiction starting in the 1930s.
The writing style reminds me much more of Wells than golden age sci-fi and is much more socially conscious than science fiction in the decades that followed, which often abandoned social critique (in response to McCarthyism and the Red Scare) in favor of hard science and adventure.
The Clockwork Man is quite a remarkable little novel: steampunk before steampunk was cool; one of the first appearances of a cyborg in science fiction literature; and a delicate commentary on modern humanity and its great enemy, time.The novel opens with the farcical setup of the Clockwork Man's abrupt appearance at an early-twentieth-century afternoon cricket match in the countryside, which he ultimately joins and wrecks.
This was his first and only published novel, and it is a gem of early science fiction.
I had never heard of this or even Odle, which is surprising considering it is probably the first android story you would have thought it would famous.The story in itself is rather a fun story.
This strange clockwork man arrives in the middle of a cricket match and then goes on to make up the numbers for one team where he is exceptional.
Now at this point in the story a knowledge of cricket is useful otherwise some of the story might be missed.
The story then goes on to describe how this strange fellow causes trouble in an English village.
This book seems like gimmicky speculative fiction (I tend to like non-gimmick speculative fiction, by the way), which in some ways was a bit interesting toward the end. But as a whole, it essentially suggests that individuality despite excessive conflict is better than automaton multi-dimensional maleness. As if these are our only options as a species.
Impossible to give grandad anything less than five stars.
Novela corta impresionante.
(Coincidentally, I recently read A Clockwork Orange, which deals with similar issues regarding the removal of a person’s ability to decide between good and evil.) Odle also shines a light on the then-changing views of women.
One of the main characters, Doctor Allingham, is pretty much an avowed misogynist while younger characters represent the change Odle knew was building across the country at that time.Where the book falls short for me is in the characterizations.
Neither of the women have much effect on the plot, but then again neither do the lead men: they are acted up by the comings and goings of the clockwork man, but don’t accomplish much of their own accord.
His antics appear to be inspired by slapstick movies of the early 20th century such as Charlie Chaplin, Laurel and Hardy, and Harold Lloyd, and perhaps more obscure movies about automatons running amok.The back story about how his mysterious "Makers" came to the Earth and abducted all the women and turned all of the men into clockwork beings was one of the more interesting aspects of the story, and raises it above being just a silly short novel.
We will never know.Anyone who wants to write steam-punk novels should include this on their reading list.
It has a great storyline, starting out in late 1920's at a cricket match.
This was written before the famed Golden Age of Science Fiction (Asimov, Bradbury, Silverberg etc.) and has introduced me to what is known as the Radium Age that was written from about 1904 -33.
The key sentence introducing us to what lies ahead is one of his first questions to a cricket match onlooker, "when am I?" There are no guns, no warfare, no space age exploration.
Just a great story about a misplaced visitor - from far far into our future.
And, because of the fact it claims to show the first cyborg/robot/automaton/AI in science fiction.This copy came with a forward and introduction that can offer better insight into what it means than I can.
I particularly recommend the intro by Annalee Newitz titled “The First Cyborg and the First Singularity” — though after the fact because it gives the whole story away.
And it will help you understand wtf you just read.
At 141 pages the book is worth it.A lot of the “science fiction terms” it uses are not what sf authors would use today.
Read my full review here: https://blackandwhitepandaduh.wordpre...
A interesting, intellectual little novel.
It explores some interesting ideas about human existence and a few about feminism, while also being an early introduction to robotics and the idea of changes to the Time Space continuum.
The problem for me is that the book was too much in its own head.
There was a lot of sitting around and thinking and wondering and pondering and panicking, without much action to precipitate all of these thoughts.
It seemed to me that we need more information and action to give a solid base to build upon.
The lack of action also made it quite slow.
Possibly the first novel about a cyborg, it's the story of a weird being who claims to come from thousands of years in the future and from a very different, multidimensional world, and to function thanks to a clock in his head that makes him hugely more evolved and sophisticated than human beings in the 1920s. The small town where he shows up is disrupted by his appearance and his deeds, as discussions and theories divide the local scientists. An intriguing tale with a unexpected turn of events at the end.

This was a fun little book from 1923, which featured the first appearance of a cyborg in science fiction. A Clockwork Man from 8,000 years in the future shows up at a cricket match and hijinks ensue. He is having a problem with the mechanism in his head and he can't return to the future. It was interesting to read what an author from the '20s thought a future robot would be like. Overall, the book was a quick read that dragged a bit when the cyborg wasn't around.
A strange and quirky little book. Quite funny, but I would say rather bland in its storytelling. A few chapters are eventful and generate a sense of excitement and intrigue, but they are sadly rare. Interesting once again for the science fiction perspective from such an early era.
This one was a bit too much of a product of its place and time for me to get into. I don't think I am the target demographic for a book where the first 20% or so of the story is talking about how a person is obviously an outsider because he doesn't know how to play cricket.
Boring, slow and pointless. Only interesting as a historical artifact connecting two much better periods of literature. Life is too short to waste on dull books.
Nice read. 1923 science fiction, considered the first cyborg story. Humorous at times, interesting if you consider the path of sci-fi thereafter.
