https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311130.The_Great_Roxhythe
It is very easy for a reader reading this book in 2011 to misinterpret what Heyer has written.Also, she is best known for her Regency-set romances and romantic love is lacking in this book.
While I did grow used to it, it did jar at the beginning of the book and hinder the flow of the prose.Overall I enjoyed this book and it is well worth reading on its own merits not just as the "forgotten Georgette Heyer historical." It is not one of her best, and I would never recommend this to a new Heyer reader as a first or even an almost-first read.
Decided not to read because Heyer herself requested it be pulled from circulation after writing it at 19.
The difference being that here, the attraction relationship is all male, rather than male/female as with Avon and Leonie in Shades.So, Roxhythe the mighty, sophisticated, langorous but very intelligent noble hires ingenuous youth as secretary.
Here it bids fair to claim central position, Christopher becoming a total Roxhythe worshipper, right or wrong - and then it gets truncated, first by a very detailed swashbuckle-and-spy mission to Holland, then as the book gets sucked into Charles II's time and politics.
The primary emphasis on Roxhythe makes a fine closure, but actually militates against the book's overall unity.On the other hand, Roxhythe's relationship with Charles never seems to develop beyond determination that he is Charles' man come hell or high water.
This is merely a comment on the book copy itself (ISBN 9788087830598).
The internal information says it was published in 2014 by "Important Books." Yet the CPSC Tracking Label Number on the last page indicates a publication date of January 29, 2015 in Breinigsville, PA.
The pages of text themselves look like someone has taken an earlier publication of the book and simply photocopied all of the content.
There is a gray/black strip across all of the pages, showing the edge of the machines's copying plate.
I will be looking for a nicer book in the future.
The Great Roxhythe (TGR), Georgette Heyer's second published novel, is an astonishing work of historical fiction, with two unconventional love stories at its center.
The only women Roxhythe cares for are Charles II's beloved youngest sister (I rest my case), Henrietta Anne, married to Louis XIV's brother; and his cousin, Lady Frances Montgomery, a typical Heyer female of the admirable kind: smart, witty, a match for any rake but too sensible to fall for one, happily married to a decent man.Was Heyer aware of the homoerotic nature of this story?
In Heyer's time, sex between men was still shameful, but "pure" love could be admired.
THis is a rare book that Heyer would most likely not give a 5-star rating herself, but the scarcity made it intriguing to me and the relationship that she explores is poignant and the characters are compelling.
I have heard that Heyer refused to allow this book to be reprinted before she died and I can see how it could easily be misread.
I do not believe that she intended anything but a pure and respectful relationship between the main character and the Great Roxhythe but there are going to be plenty of people out there who disagree with me.
Still I cried at the end so it was well worth the read.
In later life, Georgette Heyer disavowed this historical novel she wrote early in her career and refused to have it reprinted. While Ms Heyer was correct in thinking The Great Roxhythe is not up to the standard of her other books, it is a fascinating read for the serious Heyer fan, because here are rough templates for characters who appear again and again in her historical romances--for example, the sardonic, cool headed Roxhythe is a draft for many of her later heros. The history of Restoration England is interesting; however, the sparkling writing and skillful plotting are yet to come.
And even while I didn’t care much for Roxhythe, it is not a dud, not completely.The novel is set in the years between 1668 and 1685, during the reign of Charles II.
Chris is repeatedly warned by various people, including Roxhythe himself, to not place his trust in Roxhythe, whose entire life is dedicated to Charles, but Chris refuses to believe that his lord would be involved in political intrigues.
Heyer does a very good job of putting Roxhythe at all the important events and plots against Charles.
This was depressing and miserable, completely unlike most of her books. I chased down a copy in a reference library on the other side of the world, and it was definitely not worth it.
I got bogged down by all the political maneuvering and lost interest.
Add a powerful homoerotic culture in aristocratic England of the 17thC, and a successful use of period language, and the book offers a lot.As always Heyer writes passion well.
Heyer comments that he was outwitting the French king, really, but it is very unclear how.
Again this is confused for if Charles (and his tool Roxhythe) were actually outwitting the French king they presumably do not betray their country.
But if he had made it there would have been no plot, and no resemblance to history, in which Charles did indeed plot with the French king.The book is a novel of its author's time, early 20thC.
Apparently Heyer did not like the novel and did not encourage its republication.
The novel is about political intrigue in Charles II's restoration court.
The best part of the novel is the relationship between Roxhythe and his secretary, the idealistic and young Chris Dart.
Heyer points to the difference between the men by highlighting the their choices when faced with love vs ideals.
Roxhythe chooses love over ideals and does many dishonorable things as a result.
Dart choose ideals and is broken hearted.
Heyer wouldn't let this be re-published in her lifetime, and it's hard to get hold of.
It's set in the 17th century, at the court of Charles II.
It is a bit odd, as there's no 'romance' just 'intrigue', but as someone else said in a review, you can see various Heyer 'heros' in Roxhythe, most clearly probably Tracy from The Black Moth and the (fabulous) Duke of Avon from These Old Shades.
There's also a lot about male friendship and platonic love which all seems a bit odd in the 21st century but there you go.
There are few novels about Charles II/James II era and this novel brought back snippets of history I learnt at school. The first part establishing and developing the characters and the historical part was good. Unfortunately it fell to pieces during the second part which showed more of the same sudden introduction of new characters which had little relevance to the plot. Not her best but I enjoyed it nonetheless.
This is not like any Heyer I've read. It is all dialogue and very little action. I can see why she wished to suppress this title. Roxhythe is a man who has given his life to his king, Charles II, it is court intrigue and politics. It does offer some insight into the Reformation, but all in all, I'd not recommend to anyone.
I remember The Great Roxhythe being stilted and hard to get through because Roxhythe seemed too much an abstract 'great man'. Yet at the same time I found the politics and skullduggery intriguing. Not sure how this would hold up to a re-read because it's oversoaked with pseudo-historical language, but I'm glad to have read and enjoyed it while first glomming on Heyers. Sept/13
When I found this previously undiscovered by me Heyer, I was so excited. However, there was a reason this book is not well-known. It just wasn't up to Heyer's normal standard. I am glad I read it, just to help complete my Heyer collection but it was sadly disappointing.
It took me a while to get a copy of this but it was worth it. In many ways unlike Heyer's other books but I couldn't help but feel that These Old Shades developed out of Roxhythe's character. Anyhow I enjoyed this and cried at the end, just like I was meant to...
It's a very early book and not nearly as good as her others, but it still held my interest. It was about the plots King Charles II used to keep in power during the Restoration and all the political maneuvering that went on.
This was not an historical romance. If anything, the romance is mostly a one-sided love affair between Roxhythe and Charles II of England.
I have now read all of Heyer's historical fiction novels...
It was okay. I didn't hate it. Wouldn't have become a Heyer fan if it was the first one her books I read.
Easily the most intriguing book Heyer ever wrote.
