https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27698.Madam_Will_You_Talk_
and now the killer, with blood enough on his hands, was waiting in the wings for the lights to go up again, on the last kill that would bring the final curtain down.So, since we're talking a 1950-ish play here, let's cast the main roles: In the part of Charity, we have Grace Kelly:Despite her penchant for alpha men, Charity is a capable person who spends much of the story driving around the south of France like a maniac, so:For Charity's lazy, "plump and fair" friend Louise, I've found this unnamed 1950's plus-size model:Cary Grant as Richard Byron, the sinister (and possibly mad) suspected murderer who chases her across half of France:Jayne Mansfield, as the French femme fatale Loraine:Louis Jourdan, as the drop dead good-looking Frenchman Paul Very:and finally, Tommy Rettig (of "Lassie" fame) as David, Richard Byron's son:(use your imagination to replace Lassie with a nondescript mutt named Rommel)So, with our all-star cast in place, back to our story: Charity befriends young David and takes him on some local excursions.
Charity quickly becomes fond of David and believes that by helping him to escape from his father, she is doing the right thing.This story has many twists and turns, and the suspense is heightened by subterfuge, high-speed car chases, and an antique silver bracelet turning up in an unexpected place.
The storytelling is outstanding, the characters fascinating, and the descriptive writing so well written that I could visualize each place this author took me in the story.Mary Stewart is credited with developing the genre of romantic suspense featuring intelligent, independent, and capable women who don’t fall apart in a crisis.
Take one brave heroine who drives her snazzy convertible like Mario Andretti.Add thrilling car chases on twisty roads in the south of France.
So excuse me while I head out to the terrace to enjoy my café au lait and croissants--with yet another Mary Stewart!Buddy read March 2015:https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...
She's already done it for you the old-fashioned way - through sheer genius of being able to paint a word postcard of any setting she places her characters and her story.This time, that place is Southern France, and Stewart takes her readers, (literally as well as figuratively), on a wild ride through Provencal.
That Stewart woman, she makes me wish I had more depth of classical literature knowledge to appreciate all that's being implied by each literary utterance.And last, but not least, if Stewart in this novel suffered her hero and heroine to fall into the trap of "insta-love" (which negated me giving it 5 stars), at least she didn't have them fall into insta-bed, with a 2 page description of the sexual act.
Hannah's reviewJeannette's reviewI did think this book was a lot of fun though.
:D I already know who the two leads were because their voices were in my head while reading the book.First off, I think bad guy and suspected murderer, Richard Byron, should be played by the wonderfully menacing James Mason.
Very well, then I shall have to make you tell me.”Rich widow, ace driver and savvy traveler, Charity Selborne, should be played by Jean Simmons.“And how do you propose to do that?
Roddy was actually much too old to play David in 1955, but oh well.
As others among my buddy read companions have noted, the novel calls to mind a 1950s film: glamorous characters driving fast cars while engaging in a spot of intrigue in a beautiful location.
In relation to the hero, it occurred to me that Stewart may have been inspired by Georgette Heyer when she created him.
A long way from the best novel I’ve ever read, but great fun to share with Jemidar, Jeannette, Hannah, Misfit, Laura, Willowfaerie, Leslie, Kim, Joanne, Marg, SarahC and possibly others, most if not all of whom finished reading the book before I did.
Rue de la RepubliquePage 34:Sur le pont d'AvignonL'on y danse, l'on y dance...Rocher des DomsPage 35 - Chapel of St. NicholasIt reminds me the legend of Saint Bénézet.Page 37:We sang ‘Sur le pont d’Avignon’ in the style of Jean Sablon, and David told me the story of St. Bénézet who confounded the clerics of Avignon, and built the bridge where the angel had told him...Page 41: Pope's Palace, AvignonMonuments d'Avignon.
Le palais des Papes du xive siècle et le pont Saint-Bénezet (il s’agit du fameux pont d’Avignon) du xiie siècle sont classés au patrimoine de l’humanité par l’Unesco.Page 42:Then suddenly, from somewhere behind me, came a man’s voice, speaking low, in French.
I do not read Mary Stewart and see what her characters are doing, I sit with them, eat with them, and herald the morn with them:How long I sat out there, in a coign of carved stone and rough rock, I do not know.
From east to north, and back to south again, the clouds slackened, the stars, trembling on the verge of extinction, guttered in the dawn wind, and the gates of day were ready to open at the trumpet…I will admit that part of what makes me love her so much is my long-time relationship with her.
I think she is one of Mary's best!
I loved following her around and a few certain danger scenes will remain unforgettable.
I often notice how Mary has animals as fairly important characters (important to the storyline) in her books.
The dolphin, and cat, in This Rough Magic, The hounds in The Gabriel Hounds...I greatly enjoy this about her books as an animal lover myself.
I always look for them when beginning a book.
I think I even read that.
Loved the setting and the women as friends travelling together.
Read this one if you can find a copy.
This is my first read by Mary Stewart.
Reading it is like watching old Hollywood movies where sophisticated people eat, drink, smoke, drive glamorous cars and deal with mystery and intrigue.
Her sense of place is vivid to the point where you almost feel the heat of sun-drenched Southern France, hear chirping of cicadas, admire beautifully described locations.
In fact, the backdrop of the Southern France plays a major role and the setting is what I liked the most in the story in addition to the heroine.
Very refreshing!The story is romantic suspense and I have to say suspense was just average with too many coincidences and romance was more of insta-love variety.
I love books others berate but am under-whelmed by “Madam, Will You Talk?”.
I liked “Thunder On The Right” better.
Nobody would act like Charity!
Charity befriends a boy at their hotel, whose Father was acquitted of murder.
The boy and a stepmother evade him regardless; which Charity spends the rest of the novel doing.
Charity reacted ludicrously, to a miscommunication, in 98% of the pages!If you imagined a killer were chasing you: you would stay among people.
Charity had a million opportunities to do all of these things but did none!!!!
Five year-olds understand the urgency of seeking help better than this lady.
I am going to review 3 Mary Stewart books all in one since I just finished reading them all (Madam will you talk, This rough magic, and My brother Michael).
Let me just say that reading a Mary Stewart novel is so very very refreshing.
I don't know how she does it, but the chemistry between her heroines and the leading men are FABULOUS.
Some of the men are goody-goody, some of them are flawed at first glance but then you realize that you love them anyway and because of their flaws, but mostly they are just very decent men that for some reason just don't exist much in novels that are set 50 years later in today's world.
I am lucky to have not read an abundance of Stewart's romantic suspense novels in the past, so that I can read them now.
As a young reader, I wanted to be like the Mary Stewart heroine: smart, a traveler, well-spoken, well-read, with a little bit of a "past." All the rest in a Mary Stewart novel is just icing on the erudite cake.
And it still is.Stewart also has a mind for concise writing; the life of the main character is not of real-time and the action and the details speed along.
So many older romances don't show true, deep friendship between women, but this book does.(view spoiler)[ I do have a few criticisms.
The late Johnny had more appeal to me than the alive Richard!I will bow to anyone who has more legal knowledge than me but it seemed very easy for Richard & Charity to marry.
Even if she was a bigamist, would the marriage to Loraine be that easy to set aside?& a lot of readers have problems with the instalove in Stewart's books - but she & her husband only knew each other for 3 months before they married.
This is my second favorite Mary Stewart, I just love the mix of suspense! I can't write a synopsis, I just can't. I loved this book too much, I wouldn't ever be able to write a fitting synopsis so I'm just going to say what I loved; which was everything. The Hero was perfect in a none perfect way, the heroine did a lovely job driving; she had me on the edge of my set! There where midnight car chases on the cliff edges, puzzles as to who was to be trusted and who wasn't and, suspense. Thrilling,
This is my second favorite Mary Stewart, I just love the mix of suspense!
I loved this book too much, I wouldn't ever be able to write a fitting synopsis so I'm just going to say what I loved; which was everything.
The Hero was perfect in a none perfect way, the heroine did a lovely job driving; she had me on the edge of my set!
There where midnight car chases on the cliff edges, puzzles as to who was to be trusted and who wasn't and, suspense.
My Favorites so far by Mary Stewart
1# Wildfire at Midnight ★★★★★2# Madam, Will You Talk?
It easily matches the level of suspense that Nine Coaches Waiting has, although in both books you do have to get through a few chapters before you get to the really page-turning stuff.That car chase in the middle!
That hairpin turn of a plot point!
My clue was the way Mary Stewart had played with a similar idea in Nine Coaches Waiting.Part of me rolled my eyes a little bit at the quickly sprung up romance, but most of me enjoyed it as part and parcel of this genre of book.I recommend both of these titles for readers who enjoy some vintage suspense!
I only discovered Mary Stewart's books last year, and now have just a handful of them remaining that I've not read.
As with the majority, Madam, Will You Talk?, which is Stewart's debut novel, is well written, and wonderfully plotted.
Stylistically, Stewart evidently found a writing formula very early on which worked for her; it is mirrored in all of her other books.
In some ways, Madam, Will You Talk?
was not as strong as her later works, as some elements were a little difficult to believe, but I found this an enjoyable read nonetheless.
Not my favourite of Mary Stewart’s novels, but it’s what the library had when I felt like revisiting.
The constant descriptions of the love interest as dictatorial are exactly right, and one can’t help but think the whole relationship a little off-putting.
She’s terrified of him at first, she thinks he’s a murderer, and he’s violent to her, and yet… There’s a passion in the relationship, which is something I do like to see, but his violence was waved away all too easily.
But it works as long as you’re in the right headspace, and I was, since I’m well used to Stewart’s work.
This author certainly knows how to describe places as you feel you are right there next to the heroine, experiencing her adventure.
I loved the setting - lovely descriptive phrases used for it, the heroine and her brave and smart decisions, the men in the story - were they the good guys or bad guys, hard to tell the way the author told the story and the exciting climax of the tale.I think - to date - this has to be my favorite Mary Stewart story.
At least I know I am in for a real treat because of her poetic descriptions, crisp dialogue, smart and well-drawn characters and imaginative storyline.
3.5 starsCharity Selborne is on holiday with a friend in the south of France, but in true Mary Stewart fashion, she's soon mixed up in a potful of mystery and intrigue when she meets a young boy in terror of his murderous father. I've just spent an hour on another review, and I have floors to vacuum and laundry to launder. Hannah and Jeannette have already written such excellent reviews, review that mirror my thoughts on the book, and you can read them here and here. But please don't miss Willowfaerie's excellent review casting the film here.
But the lead male character in the romance is just so… for a good chunk of the book he’s violent and unpleasant, and there’s a whole sense of dread about him ever catching up with Charity.
The moment when they end up on the same side feels jarring — I don’t feel like the reader is prepared well enough for the switching of sides.But on the other hand, there’s Charity and her attitude to her relationship with her late husband.
Whatever I knew of life and loving had been Johnny’s gift, and without it Richard and I would be the poorer.
Too long descriptions dominate the narrative, making it slow, and the constant reminders that the story will be a tragedy, that there is a murderer on the loose, that the heroine will be terrified… some time later in the novel… diminish the impact of the scary events, when they finally do happen.
By the same chance, the heroine happens to overhear every detail of the criminals’ devious plan, so she could thwart it.
The master’s stamp is unmistakable, which makes this novel interesting from the literary historian’s point of view: it shows how the writer developed her craft, where she started.I liked it.
The scenery was appealing, and I actually believed the mystery.Next, what drove me crazy - the hero literally chases the heroine around the South of France, and though she drives fast and makes some impressive feints along the way, he still finds her?
Way too many coincidences to accept there (as in the antiques store...).
And, of course, the thing that always bothers me about some of these books - the hero and heroine "fall in love" at the drop of a hat.
Even after Richard pretty much assaults her, Charity still falls in love and even accepts that he might be a bit dictatorial.
Snicker.Anyway, plot-wise, this one wasn't terribly surprising; of course you know, going in, that the Big Mystery about the hero is going to come out okay in the end.
But I did like that this one also brings the heroine in almost on the very tail end of the overall plot; she only comes in as a pivotal player at that point, rather than being there for the whole thing.
Points off for having the heroine faint in the middle of a tense scene with the hero, though, just because he's being Skeery!
Interesting variety of covers on the different editions.
I do think I'd have read the book differently if I'd read it under a modern-looking cover.
I, personally, have never read anything like it before.* Even though I know nothing about the cars, the setting, the brand-names, etc., Stewart made me feel like I did, or at least that the understanding that I was getting from context clues were sufficient.
Even though it's far from my favorite genre, I may just have to look for more by the author.*The only things I can think of that approach it would be Agatha Christie (I think I've read two), and Fredric Brown (his mysteries, like The Lenient Beast, not his SF).
One of my favorite Mary Stewart books. Charity Selbourne is a WW2 widow whose pilot husband taught her about car engines and gave her driving tips - this detail becomes very important as the story progresses. Charity befriends a young boy while on vacation in France, meets the boy's father, finds intrigue and a 2nd love. Charity's remembrances of her beloved Johnny and the realization that he prepared her for a possible life without him bring tears to the reader's eyes.
One of my all time favorites. Charity Selbourne is on vacation with her friend in Provence when she gets caught up into another family's crisis, which not only ruins her vacation but changes her life.
A Mary Stewart classic....she's a master at crafting heart-pounding car chase scenes! When I read her descriptive passages of nature and foreign settings, it is pure poetry. Really more of a 3.5 star, but it's Mary Stewart so I'll round up. Thornyhold is still my favorite.
This is the first book that MS wrote and the only one of hers that I had never read; it was a delight to discover an unread MS and when I realised it was her first - I felt doubly blessed.
Her use of language is skilful, artistic and clever.
She draws the reader in from the very first page: setting the scene and introducing us to most of the cast of characters, who will play an important role, with such skill, that they are immediately alive and participating in the story.
MS showed all the promise of a truly excellent writer in this book.
What a delightful story! Now I understand all the gushing, positive reviews from fans of this author. There was intrigue, romance, adventure, exotic locales, a nail-biting car chase, and a thrilling conclusion! The characters were fleshed out and interesting. Definitely a thoroughly enjoyable read. I will definitely read more from this new-to-me author.
