https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6665847-daemon
Thrillers are like fluffy white bread, or buttery popcorn and I’ve come to expect certain things from them: short, clipped prose, casual (and sometimes overt) misogyny, one dimensional characters, some sort of mystery element, cheesy dialogue, comic mustache twirling villains, and military/police/government/technical jargon masquerading as complexity.
It also mostly falls apart in the end, opting for a cheap 50 page chase sequence instead of examining the more interesting social themes in any sort of detail, or resolving the overarcing story in any form whatsoever.If you’re looking for complex characters, or beautiful language, look elsewhere.
Awful. "Daemon" suffers from all the usual pitfalls of the first novel: unoriginal premise, wooden dialogue, melodramatic action, clumsy exposition, sloppy resolution, inconsequential subplotting. When the author tries to be witty, he comes off as conceited; when he tries to impress with his tech-savvy, he sounds as if he's quoting from "Popular Science" magazine. This was the worst book I've read in a while, and I'm not sure whether I want Daniel Suarez to stop writing altogether, or give him credit for having nowhere to go but up.
Empowering the little people with cheap processing power and an Internet which can not be regulated nor destroyed is great if you are a first time author trying to get a book out the door; it isn't so good for the rest of us if you are able to steal the identities of others, plan terrorist attacks, or abuse an infrastructure designed for efficiency, but capable of worse.Other authors have probed these questions; Suarez goes one step further.
What first seems like a techno-thriller with gamers and programmers and a murderer doing all his murders after his own death by cancer then quickly turns into a social and economical exploration based on the trends we're now facing.This is a fun and complicated story filled with many twists and turns, awesome characters, and a world-changing creation that turns us all into players in a world-wide socio-economic game based on distributed network theory and game-development strategies.
It's like having the mafia become a super genius living in every computer and taking over everything purely by social hacking.
No one knew how mentally unstable until after his death when a series of bizarre events revealed his detailed and well planned machinations to change the world.
A dark net, automated daemon he left behind is making dramatic and dangerous alterations to government, business and society as a whole.Suarez has populated his narrative with an intriguing cast of well developed characters.
Suarez also provides sufficient and cause-and-effect backstories to reveal Sobol's pre-death planning.
Unlike Left Behind’s Nicolai Carpathia, this humanist villain bears a nihilistic, philosophical rationalization for his world changing intrigues.
If you were someone with more computer knowledge and money than Bill Gates, and you found out you were dying, would you:A) Give all your money to charity just in case you can buy your way into heaven.B) Indulge in an around the world drinking, drug and sex spree until going out in a blaze of glory by crashing your private jet into an erupting volcano live on CNN.C) Pour all your money into a cryogenics program and freeze yourself like Walt Disney in the hope that they’ll finally figure out a way to bring back the human popsicles.D) Devise an intricate high-tech web of infrastructure and computer programs that will carry out your will and launch an Internet scheme that will kill a whole lot of people when your obituary is published.If you chose A, B or C, then you obviously weren’t cut out to be a crazy billionaire.
I loved the premise of this book and thought the first half of it was a fun and original thriller.
Into the third chapter of this book I had to close it for good.
I was very disappointed given its good reviews.
There were a few swear words but as the F-bombs started to land, the Rave parties began, drug dealers started trash talking, prostitutes hit the scene and a date rape began I had to quit, all before chapter 4.
I wish there was a content rating for books like there are movies.
I think I will start rating my books so other readers may know what they are getting into.
RATING - R
Oh, and it establishes that he does this on a regular basis.I get that Suarez is trying to get the point across that this guy is a creep but this was a long and nauseating scene and I really struggled with it.
But I can't bring myself to pick the book back up.Take that opinion as it is, I know that people aren't going to be happy with it.
When news of Sobol's death hits the Internet, the daemon becomes active, creating havoc across the world as it exploits vulnerabilities in computer networks and uses them for its own purposes.Daniel Suarez's first novel "Daemon" is a fascinating, compelling and, at times, downright scary story of just how open to attack and manipulation many of our computer networks are.
Suarez has promised a sequel and the book comes to a conclusion that effectively wraps up the story for this book but leaves open a lot of doors for a sequel.
Wonderful, wonderful read. I'm taking off one star because I found the ending to be very... well, not to my liking. I thought it was too abrupt, and I didn't feel like anything was resolved. Maybe it was supposed to be, but I tend to like closure.
A 3.5 for me. A crazy individual who happens to be a millionaire genius somehow hacks the Internet and after his death his ideology runs havoc within law enforcement, the military, America's judicial system, the public sector, etc.... It was a well written book with a good story line, I just wish I could have connected with the characters more, there were too many and none very likable. Computer gamers would probably enjoy this book very much. It is the first of two books but I probably won't read the next one unless it shows up as a Daily Deal.
People try with absolutely no success to stop him.The problem with this book is that all the cards are held by the villains, to the point of absurdity.
The heroes exist only to be struck down, and while this might be good as a set-up, an entire book of it grows wearying.
The idea of factions as well, and the gamification of real life are interesting ideas that beg for exploration.Yet he wastes time on pointless elaborate deathtrap scenes, and introducing more evil characters than good ones.
It could be an incredible book if it explored the ideas in it.
But now it's just an over-long set up for books two and probably three.
I don't know but I plan to start the next bookFreedom™ sometime this evening.Okay, so this is an exceptionally well written book with a story that doesn't fall into all the stereotypical traps it could fall into.
Others have probably read enough of the Dune series to know how Mentats came about....and there are others.
Okay...so I like the book, even though I HATE that I may be getting involved in ANOTHER series I'll have to live long enough to finish!Okay...five stars...highly recommended....enjoy....If you can knowing it ends in a cliffhanger.
Just like in Kill Decision, Jeff Gurner did a really great job narrating the book.
All I have to do now is just explain how great this “a genius trying to take over the world” techno-thriller is.
The characterization in this book is far better than in Kill Decision or other thrillers.
While in Kill Decision and other thrillers there’s an emphasize on portraying the main character well, but other characters might feel somewhat flat, that’s not the case here.
The supporting characters were really well-drawn and character development was evident.All in all, it’s a superb techno-thriller/SF that had surpassed my high expectations.
- yuck)I flew through this book and loved every minute of it.
I loved trying to guess what would happen next, and being pleasantly surprised at the realistic ways in which the characters dealt with the situations.
I think that if such a program were to exist, the public and the private sectors would react in essentially the same way.I haven't been this engrossed in a book since my last Crichton read.
I highly recommend this book, and I would love to hear about any others that are similar.
"The DaVinci Code" for Wired readers. Some mindless fun for when the mood strikes.Read it soon though, since the "modern high tech" or 2006 has already started to expire.
In the Eighties, I read and loved the genre called "cyberpunk," and was disappointed to see it vanish as the fantasy Net was replaced with the very real Web, imagined microcommunicators were replaced with Bluetooth headsets, and anyone anywhere with a bit of knowledge and equipment became able--for real--to dive into government databases, corporate financial records, and anything else on the web.
Cyberpunk-era virtual reality bore a strong resemblance to Second Life, but as the reality became manifest my much-loved fiction became relegated to the history piles.Fortunately, much of that spirit, that wonderful blend of pure optimism in the midst of dystopia, can be found in what is now called "tech fiction" ...
Rating - 9/10(Extraordinary) -Gory Legacy of the Dead  Warning - This novel is totally R rated I got to know about this novel after google searching  "Novels like Ready Player One" . The list ranged from some lighter novels to really dark and disturbing novels. I was more interested in the disturbing ones. One among them was Daemon by Daniel Suarez. The blurb of the novel was interesting and captivating. After reading this novel, I was elated by the ground work that the author had laid for this
Rating - 9/10(Extraordinary) -Gory Legacy of the Dead  Warning - This novel is totally R rated I got to know about this novel after google searching 
This novel is about an artificial entity called Daemon which got triggered after the founder by the name Matthew Sobol was dead.
The novel explored some cool subjects in computer science like Distributed systems/networks, Artificial Intelligence, voice recognition and much more.
The author did justice in portraying the Daemon as being one step ahead and the other characters of the novel.
Other than this, the Daemon was a good action movie with great plot, characters and technobabble suitable for the techies.
The new AP was running Wi-Fi Protected Access--WPA--a form of wireless encryption.
But that would be the test, then, wouldn't it?
Hopefully, the phrase wasn't more than eight or nine characters.
Gragg would need to sniff the key exchange messages between the adapter and the access point, then crack the key off-line with a PSK dictionary (which he had on his laptop).
Hopefully there would be some client exchanges to monitor.
But if this was a test, then that was the only correct answer."Here's the kicker: this novel does not have a resolution--it just ends--apparently the first in a series.
I liked this because in some ways it was very "Michael Crichton-y" in its combination of action and thriller with science and technology, though I suspect that folks with extensive knowledge of programming and computer network systems will find some of the explanations and details in Daemon overly simplistic or flat out nonsensical.The book doesn't really paint a very positive or flattering picture of gamers either, but I thought it was a fun read nonetheless, especially the first part of the book.
This is definitely one of the best books I've read in a year.
Can someone program computers with backdoor programs to read the newswires and make other things happen?
Are there people so involved in the gaming world that they would do things in the real world just because a game told them to or just to earn more points in their gaming world?
I don't know if this is Mr. Suarez's debut, but I will definitely be looking for his books in the future.
I would highly recommend this book to anyone looking for a great read.
Perhaps he didn't know what those squiggly blue lines were.If you aren't a techie, you should know that a daemon is a kind of control or utility program that can perform certain tasks on its own, based upon some type of event that it can monitor.
They do this mainly by monitoring the news and killing people with computer systems based upon some kind of bizarre decision tree, I guess.The narrative quickly runs out of control and it isn't helped one bit by the fact that this guy can't write.
This guy has written a couple more books...
To properly understand Daemon, ask a biologist about Michael Crichton.
(If you're suicidal ask a physicist).Once your hearing recovers and your bones have knit consider that in all likelihood you've based decisions and impressions of the real world on models informed by said fiction.
Or bloviated at length on what that swelling might be because it's like that one episode of House?
If, however, you aren't bothered by egregious chicanery and hence delighted by its absence this book will likely not rise above its defects.
Like Stephenson, Suarez doesn't so much end his stories as simply stop writing and some of the plot points are a bit contrived.
If someone can think this up for a book; then there is someone out there who is already trying to apply principle.
This is about the potential power of the internet.
Basically, what that potential power could do, if used by someone who truly understands how it all works.
One of those guys is behind the worst disaster to happen.
The game in Reamde didn't try to take over the world and ruin people.
It was more about how those living beings could have their lives intertwine because of a internet virus and the bad things that happen when they do.
if you've previously taken a programming class so that you understand programming concepts, you'll want to discuss this book's plot madly with everyone.
Another book in the same class of speculative fiction would be the Fight Club.
But they are only a part of those trying to stop a conspiracy launched by a dead billionaire, who for unknown reasons is controlling all the economies of the world by linked computers through an entity called Daemon.
I suspect the name Matthew Sobol, the dead billionaire video game designer, will become a famous cult name in geek literature.
I did enjoy this book and would recommend it to people who like technology thrillers or gaming. The plot was suspenseful and the technology was scary as hell. I have two minor complaints though. One was the lack of depth in the characters. I didn't have any emotion or investment in what happened to them. And the other is the ending. I'll just leave it at that since I don't want to give anything away.
Unfortunately, the beginning has several problems, all of which may be Suarez attempting to ensure he is taken seriously:* The painstakingly correct detail distracts from the story a bit.* The concept of the world being decided by a battle between carders feels silly.* Suarez makes it a point to demonstrate just how evil some of the characters are.
I'm not really a fan of (techno-)thrillers, but I did enjoy the book, up until the ending.
I hadn't realized it was just an introduction to his world, so the lack-of-an ending was disappointing.
In desperate need of an editor and an ending.
Geeks rave about this book the way Germantown housewives raved about _The Firm_ in 1991.
it kinda sucks, right?Editors fix things like this:> Southerners mocked as sounding like Colonel Sanders wouldn't subsequently say "ten March," they'd say, "the tenth o' March."> How does a total stranger recognize a place as a "mixed race" neighborhood?> Plexiglass, not Perspex> Are the prisons run by the "Texas Department of Criminal Justice" or the "Texas Department of Corrections"?
Book uses both on same page.
We'd print it "Y2K."> There's speech in quotes that contains parentheses.
People don't speak parentheses.AARGH.
The truth is that this is probably one of the best books I have ever read, and finishing it was extremely bittersweet because I really wanted to read more.What Daemon does is mix suspense, action and technology into a story that is rich with heroes, villains and a surprisingly plausible plot about a computer script taking over world corporations.
On top of all of that the people most capable of understanding this new system that we are all dependent on are the geeky kids who play a lot of video games.To say that we hold the reins on such a dynamic and growing system shows how naïve we probably all are about the way this world is evolving.
Unfortunately the story crashes under the weight of its own ambition and ridiculousness.The problem is that the changes envisioned in Daemon will happen (a lot of them are happening right now), but the scale and speed with which they happen is greatly compressed in the book for effect.Suarez should take a page from Gibson and realize that the future will not ever be evenly distributed like that and a writing lesson from Stephenson would not hurt either.The ideas in it are interesting, but the treatment is blunt and the writing is poor which does not help its credibility nor pushes it out of the realm of common technothrillers.Thrilling read, mildly mind expanding but nothing too insightful.
