https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/862109.Gone_to_Soldiers
Gone to Soldiers is a novel told through characters in multiple settings: among them French Jewish resistance fighters; members of the intelligence community in Washington DC and London; a writer of fiction who moves into journalism; laborers in Detroit, along with their families; women entering the work force around the United States; men in various parts of the armed forces; and all the characters being faced with the changing mores of wartime when no one knows what the future will bring or if they will have a future.
No clue when I first read this nor how many times I've read it since then nor how many copies I still own nor how many I've given away to friends and family. It's that good in my opinion and Piercy is one of my favorite writers.
Gone to Soliders has recently been re-issued. If you haven't read it you must and if you have read it re-read it. It's a treasure.
This is a sprawling epic covering a loosely-linked dozen people through WWII. Piercy explores the war among immigrants and citizens in the US, refugees, soldiers, spies, and members of the underground resistance; most of the characters eventually cross paths in one way or another. The characters are vividly painted, and as far as I know, it's fairly historically accurate. It's an incredible work of women's history and contributions to the war effort, as well as a very strong novel. I've read this at least a dozen times and frequently go back to it as a comfort-read.
I don't know if it's partly because I read it as I traveled around England with my mother many years ago, but I do remember trying to ration it, dreading coming to the end and not having these people in my life anymore.
This one takes place during WWII and follows quite a few characters both in the US and in England.
Since it was so long ago that I read it, I can't remember specific storylines, other than a woman trying to become a pilot when that was just not done, but I highly recommend it!
World War II was the leitmotif of my childhood, bracketed by my memories of Pearl Harbor Day ( “Go outside and play, children.
It must have been a major undertaking to write, both in terms of the number of characters and in the amount of background research involved.
The writing, however, is pedestrian, except for a few outstanding incidences where Piercy’s background as a poet shines through.All told, though, this book in its sheer size (770 pages) is “too much of a muchness” as my grandmother used to say.
I received a request from the publisher to review the new e-book version of her 1987 novel Gone To Soldiers.
I received a free copy from the publisher via Net Galley in return for this honest review.For feminists, it's important to note that much of the narrative is a story about women, and some were extraordinary.
My personal favorites were Jacqueline, Bernice and Louise.I'll start with Louise because Gone To Soldiers opens with her perspective.
Although Jacqueline and Bernice never met each other, Louise had the opportunity to interview both of them.
I respected Bernice and Louise a great deal, but I came to love Jacqueline.
We are introduced to the ten main characters(6 women and 4 men) in the beginning chapters.Their voices continue throughout the novel and it is through their eyes that we see WW2 and its effects on an entire generation.
It wasn't until I had read all the introductory chapters(about 9 in all) on the main characters that I had a sense of who they were and where the novel was taking us.
I could not help but compare his journey to St Paul's shipwreck off the same island of Malta.What came alive in the telling of this novel was the strength and courage of the characters,most especially the women.
Marge Piercy has written an epic covering 1939 through 1945 from eyes we haven’t seen through a thousand times on History Channel, because they’re mostly women’s.
An intellectual Parisian teenager, a women’s writer (including romances) in NYC, an awkward daughter stuck caring for her widowed malcontent chuff of a father, a working class Detroit daughter doing double shifts for years to educate herself, contribute and care for the family, while her parents seem only to value their dirtball sons.
All women, all Jewish, (but one) all of whom will find themselves redefined during these years.There are also the eyes of men - some wonderful, some not.
I seldom give that but a few books deserve it and this is one.Marge Piercy has taken ten major characters--six women and four men--and written a superb novel of the homefornt during World War II.
When Ruthie goes to work in a war plant, many men harass her as they feel it is "unnatural" for a woman to want to do a man's job.
Another character, a woman air pilot, is grounded because it is felt they--the women pilots--are taking jobs away from men who have families to feed.
Amazing book. Follows a myriad of characters through World War II. Americans, French citizens, Jews and Gentiles. Citizens, prisoners, and soldiers. Lots of points of view to consider. 700 pages long and more than worth the read. I will truly miss some of these characters. I wish Marge Piercy would follow up on some of them - most especially Bernice, Naomi, and Jacqueline.
This book ruined me for all Marge Piercy novels to come because none have matched it in my opinion as a sheer tour-de-force of World War 2 as seen through various eyes. The strength shown by the characters was amazing and there were parts that really tore me apart. a definite re-read in the future.
Very good epic read, though a bit slow at times. Marge Piercy is phenomenal at characterization . She uses this skill well by telling the stories of 10 people and how their lives take shape over the course of WW11 and it's aftermath.
A resounding 5 stars. more like 8. Simply phenomenal storytelling.
While I like Piercy's writing and her characterizations and setting are very strong, I was totally blown away by the fact that just about every single character -- and there are many characters in this novel -- is involved with some kind of animal exploitation.
Yet it is difficult to read and care about characters who laugh at chickens dying, where one woman works at a furrier, where another character has hunted, another has slaughtered animals without being squeamish -- and on and on.
The settings are different in each chapter as well - Naomi is in Detroit; her sister Jacqueline is in France (at the beginning), Oscar is in Washington DC (at the beginning), Louise is in New York City (at the beginning), and Murray is in the South Pacific, etc.
Murray left Ruthie behind in Detroit and hopes to survive the war to return to her.
Because the story was so complex, I did not easily connect with the characters and struggled to recall the details of each life when I started a new chapter.
I thought Gone to Soldiers was written beautifully, and I simply could not put it down.Gone to Soldiers follows 10 characters and shares their different WWII experience.
As a reader, you experience war through different perspectives, and even though some characters are more lovable than others, you grow attached to them.
I had the "not-another-Sansa-chapter!" feeling with some characters, but you have to carry on because it's worth it.
The characters are either resilient or learn to be.
The characters grow throughout the book, and the women are empowered.
I've read ALL of her books and this one is definitely my favorite of all time. Be prepared to cry your eyes out. World War II was intense no matter where you lived and this book shows all kinds of people who may or may not survive it... From the resistance gueurrilla fighters to the women on the assembly lines, this book shows the multi-faceted world that existed for women in the early 1940's. Gingembre is my favorite warrior spirit in a literary work. Worth reading just for her.
The US and UK governments were more obstructive than helpful, and countless men, women, and children died because of these exclusions.Piercy is a brilliant storyteller, and in her hands, the period and its people are so believable, nearly corporal, that I carry them with me still.This story is told through the eyes of ten characters whose narratives are staggered.
But I note that whereas our author has had the good taste and the good sense not to repeat the ugly terms by which Jewish people were called, and seldom repeats the anti-German slurs, the “J” word is used dozens of times, usually by the character that fights in the Pacific.
Since 1939, people around the globe had lived expecting war at any time.
They had occupied Poland and were imprisoning Jews, Gypsies, the Catholic left, communists, socialists, homosexuals, and resistants.
It was occupied by the Nazis from sea to sea.
China was occupied by the Japanese.
It had been invaded by Hitler.
War came unexpectedly.
Amidst the Depression, Roosevelt had to consider going to war.
At the same time, fight for a higher standard of living.
Fight his way out of depression.
Then, the Japanese attacked the American Naval base at Pearl Harbor.
The war had changed them and they had to act.
A 770-page novel encompassing the lives of eight major characters and two minor, but no less important characters, Duvey and Murray, it's an epic story spanning the critical war years between 1939-1945.
GONE TO SOLDIERS is more than a story about war and its atrocities; that is, it's not gorified guts and glory - sure there are plenty of searingly, painful scenes (and you'll feel them, trust me) - it's a story that explores the most basic, human desire to connect with another being to the most complex and grandiose hopes.
Marge Piercy guides us through the lives of several key people, from just prior to the German infiltration of France, and into the problems and joys following VE Day, and then VJ day.
I would recommend Gone to Soldiers to anyone interested in the Second World War. The details of day to day life in Europe, the US and the Pacific Theatre bring us into that experience.
We have viewpoints from the eyes and minds of French Jews, Resistance Fighters, the daily lives of several families in Detroit, Michigan, Life in the 'camps', the work of OSS agents and cryptologists in US, London, and France, and soldiers in both Europe and the Pacific.
I genuinely cared about the characters (whether I liked them or in some cases quite didn't) and they were written so honestly and accurately, at times I would think "I should look this person up to find out more about their life" as if they were real people!
It sounds from the epilogue like Piercy put a massive amount of research into this book, and I think that is part of why the stories are so compelling.
And, for the record, I am not a person particularly interested in WWII - an interest or awareness of WWII events is not at all necessary to enjoy this book.
It was interesting to read this novel in parallel with a re-read of The Winds of War [Wouk].
I have read Wouk's book many times and thought I would see what a different novelist could do with the subject.
Not as deep a read as Wouk's, Piercy's book was nonetheless an enjoyable read...she is a good writer and the book showed some depth of historical research although not so broad as Winds of War. Her characters are also more superficial than Wouk's, although overall more pleasant...kind of WWI Light?
Anyway, a better than average read.
What an unbelievable novel!
I am not surprised that the research took seven years.
It is a long and complex novel.
There are 10 main characters, all of whom are followed over several years.
I learned so much from this novel about the World War II era here and abroad.
I was a youngster at the time and recognized some of the elements (such as food stamps and victory gardens) but there was much I did not know about our own xenophobic, racist and misogynistic behavior on the home front…while our military forces were performing unbelievable feats across the globe.
This epic novel about roughly a dozen people's interrelated WWII experiences is one of my all-time favorites. Like in all of Piercy's works, the characters feel so realistic and evolve so convincingly you won't believe they don't actually exist. The story's research and craft impress me more every time I read it. The book is quite long, but if you are going to read just one novel about WWII this is the one to pick.
By far and away the best novel I have ever read. It has the breadth of War and Peace but the characters are much more alive and the treatment of men and women is so much more real. When I finished the book, I truly felt like I had lived 9 different lives right through World War II. A Masterpiece!
I am, perhaps, easily impressed by writers who can manage a large number of story lines well. Marge Piercy shows how it should be done in this rich novel, which covers years, continents, and quite a few characters. I especially appreciated that although some characters had happy endings, an equal number had unresolved or indifferently resolved endings.
This book has been sitting on my shelves for years, and now that I have something of an idea of who Marge Piercy is, I'm finally reading it. So far, I'm afraid her prose does not compare favourably to Margaret Atwood's (which I was reading just previously), but as this is true of more or less anyone it shouldn't really be taken as a criticism.
This book was the best WWII novel that I have ever read. It had a huge pool of rich, well-developed characters who brought disparate experiences of the war to life, and I could barely put it down. I would recommend it to everyone! Marge Piercy never ceases to amaze me.
