https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6953644-the-pocket-book-of-short-stories
Although this book was originally compiled in 1941, my copy is the 67th printing from 1967. I decided to go back and take a fresh look at the 22 short stories included and see if I liked them as much now as way back then.1.) The Killers-Ernest Hemingway. Set in Summit, Illinois during the 1920s. While just west of Midway Airport now, back then, Summit was pretty much run by Capone and was every bit as corrupt and dangerous as one would think. No plot. No character development. Only 10 pages, but
I decided to go back and take a fresh look at the 22 short stories included and see if I liked them as much now as way back then.1.)	The Killers-Ernest Hemingway.
5 stars12.)	W.W. Jacobs-The Monkey’s Paw	A justifiably famous story.
4 stars15.)	Robert Louis Stevenson-A Lodging for the Night	I just did not like this story very much.
5 stars17.)	Anatole France-The Procurator of Judea	Another sort of famous story that really didn’t do much for me.
4 stars21.)	Edgar Allen Poe-The Cask of Amontillado	While this is not my favorite Poe at all, the concept of the short story would not be the same without him.
Searching for short stories for our little once a week read-aloud sessions for a group of 8-14 year olds. Many of these stories are really bad. It makes me sad that people out there could really be so very miserable. However, some of my favorites: -The Devil & Daniel Webster by Stephen Vincent Benet--love the writing in this story-Tobermory by Saki (too old for the kids, but absolutely hilarious!)-The Necklace by Maupassant--heartbreaking but applicable -The Luck of Roaring Camp by Harte-=God Sees the Truth, but Waits by Tolstoy

I was a little concerned to note that this didn't have any Flannery O'Connor stories in it, but with a teeny bit of research found out that it was published just a few years after her death.
This is a wonderful little book, full of great stories--fun, famous ones like "The Devil and Dan'l Webster" and "Tobermory," and deep, powerful ones like Sherwood Anderson's "Seeds." It utilizes the very cool strategy of presenting its stories in reverse chronilogical order, which makes for interesting reading.
(For people who might care: there is a possible source story for King's "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption" in Tolstoy's "God Sees the Truth, but Waits.")
We fought England for that in '12 and we'll fight all hell for it again!''Foreign?' said the stranger.
'And who calls me a foreigner?''Well, I never yet heard of the dev---of your claiming American citizenship,' said Dan'l Webster with surprise.'And who with better right?' said the stranger with one of his terrible smiles.
It was not like our soft English rain that drops gently on the earth; it was unmerciful and somehow terrible; you felt in it the malignancy of the primitive powers of nature.
Henry, "A Municipal Report"6) "'Tell me one thing,' said the old man, pausing in his walk.
there are a lot of pessimistic, "ho hum" and just "hmmm??" stories in this collection. The best and most unique stories I read were Rain by Somerset Maugham and A Passion In The Desert by Honore de Balzac.
Spears' collection of short stories represents a fair overview of several master works: Rain by Maugham, Bliss by Porter, Jumping Frog by Twain. I read and re-read some of these stories to give me ideas as to how authors select their materials, how to acquire cadence, forming a voice. Writers have to study the works of those who come before them. This is a good book to start if you haven't already. To me, the short story is superior to the novel as a prose form for modern readers.
This is not designed as a "best of" collection of stories but rather as a sampling from Continental, English, and American writers. I probably most enjoyed Dorothy Parker's "Big Blonde." Although the stories span a time period of 100 years, the most recent are set in 1950s New York. This collection is a fine representation of the masters of the short story up to 1969 although it may not contain your particular favorites from these authors.
I read my grandmothers copy from 1941. I would carry it in my purse for whenever I was in a situation where I would have to wait and get bored. I loved it, a great collection from some excellent writers like Hemmingway, Edgar Allan Poe, Tolstoy, Anton Chekov, Mark Twain, Willa Cather, and many more.
There isn't a great deal to say about this book. It is a collection of American, British and Continental short stories and apparently is out of print. That seems likely, considering how brittle my copy is. I suppose it is nothing terribly special, but it is something of an appetizer platter for many notable writers, from Balzac to Hemingway.
good!
Some stories are intriguing and some better left behind. A dictionary is a must if you want to enjoy the scenes (those you're not familiar with).
An amazing book of short stories. Never underestimate the power of a short story.
It helps me finish my assigment
