https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/398916.The_Infinity_Gauntlet
And the art looks...old.
I mean, it looked so...old.But a few days later, when I heard him telling his brother about how Dr. Strange and the Silver Surfer helped Adam Warlock save the universe, I decided that I should probably make sure this was suitable reading material for children.
I've found it makes the reading experience a bit more fun.Is the art slick eye-candy?
No. It still looks...old.
Kinda like that crazy uncle who won't stop chain-smoking and talking about his Days in 'Nam...even though everyone in the family knows he actually spent that time in Canada.
Someday, maybe in about 20 or 25 years when motion picture technology advances to the point where they can make superhero movies that look really cool, Marvel could start their own movie studio and release a series of films based on some of these characters.
Like maybe it could be an Avengers movie called The Infinity War or something like that.
That’s a pretty big story for just one film.
Maybe two movies tied together?
And I’m thinking they'd be ready to do that in…let’s say 2018 or so.”Yep. I totally saw it coming…
Not a comic to be missed if you loved Avengers Infinity War! The recent Avengers film is excellent. It’s one of my favourite films in the marvel cinematic universe (despite the tears I may have shed) so I wanted to read its source material, and it really didn’t disappoint. Sure the artwork’s a little dated, and the film capitalises on the action and makes it more dramatic and flashy, though the story is so strong here. The success of it resides in its ability to blend so many elements into one.
Not a comic to be missed if you loved Avengers Infinity War!
The recent Avengers film is excellent.
Sure the artwork’s a little dated, and the film capitalises on the action and makes it more dramatic and flashy, though the story is so strong here.
He is a fantastic character.Unlike the recent movie, this begins with Thanos at full power: he has all the stones and is about to decimate half of all life.
It will be interesting to see how the end of Avengers Infinity War II compares with this.
Thanos as you want to see him!!! This TPB edition collects “The Infinity Gauntlet” #1-6.Creative Team:Writer: Jim StarlinIllustrator: George Perez IF THE GLOVE FITS… Thanos begins here already in full power, no waiting, no hunt for gems, oh no siree!Thanos is in possession already of the Infinity Gauntlet with all the six gems: Soul, Mind, Power, Time, Reality, Space.Therefore, controlling all those six aspects of existence, basically he became a god (curiously, enough his first act is probing

Sure, it’s all kinda bonkers, but what do you expect when Thanos, the Mad Titan, becomes the most powerful being in the universe?
Everything from the story’s immense scope to its overblown wording and spectacular (for its time) artwork feels larger-than-life, and it’s all presented in a refreshingly irony-free, wide-eyed, Kirby-esque no-nonsense style.
When Thanos says “My every moment is spent in either dealing out death or worshiping it,” I’m afraid he means every word of it, and it takes the combined efforts of almost every hero on the Marvel roster to pacify him.
The remaining half of the universe, guided by Adam Warlock, is pissed off and means to stop Thanos at any cost...As part of justifying my Marvel Unlimited subscription, I decided to finally read The Infinity Gaunlet.
Basically, the remaining heroes of Earth team up with Warlock and the Silver Surfer to try to strip Thanos of his godhood.
One of my favorite character elements was Doctor Doom trying to swipe the Infinity Gauntlet for himself, like everyone knew he was going to do.I don't actually have any big gripes with this, surprising for a comic from 1991.
Thor's mighty hammer could smash things, and he looked like a Viking, while Karate Kid could chop things up with his hands at a time when the only ones who did martial arts were the experts who's adds in the comic books said they would share their secrets for a dollar in cash, check, or stamps.
Immediately I think of the TV show "Big Bang Theory." Son is busy checking out the War Hammer figures while Sunday Eve is matching wits with our comic book store guy.
And if you read it, just maybe the kid in you will enjoy it too.
This is no exception in the massive crossover Infinity Gauntlet.
The story is good and it's easy to see how it influenced many future comics.After reading this I can't help but wonder how the Marvel MCU will depict Thanos with the infinity gauntlet.
He can't possibly be as strong in the films as he is in this comic because his power is basically unstoppable and the film won't have the added strength of many of the comics characters.All in all it was cool to read such a foundational piece of Marvel that is the Infinity Gauntlet.
It's about Thanos and his love for Mistress Death (yup Death is a chick but readers of Neil Gaiman's Sandman series already knew this), he's trying to win her over and he decides to do this by getting unlimited power via something called the Infinity Gauntlet and destroying the universe.
Meanwhile, any comics readers who are looking for a mind-bending read in the Marvel Universe would do well to pick up this book - even if the movies won't go there, the comics will and it's definitely worth the trip.
Got a healthy hankering for purple prose? Crave a continuing cast of character constantly referring to themselves in the third person?Looking for a collection of cosmic cataclysms colossal enough to leave Michael Bay lost in pyrotechnic longing?Well, have I got a book for you.
It's not bad.
Basically Thanos wants to prove to death his worth.
Well he kills a lot of motherfuckers.
There's a huge moment where basically every avenger ever plus some all go to fight the big badass but he simply swats and beats them away.
Good: Liked watching Thanos beat the fuck out of everyone.
I also thought the start was pretty good set up and gave us a lot to worry about.
Bad: Didn't love the art.
I'd probably say worth checking out before the movie but honestly the newer Thanos stories are far better IMO.
This was honestly brilliant!The story was so well constructed and I loved to see if develop, taking some surprising twists and turns a long the way!It was nice to see so many different marvel characters involved and I'm excited to see how they use this concept for the infinity war movies.Admittedly, the cosmic characters and scenes were not my favourite but the art work and story made them enjoyable and entertaining to read.
I admit, I read this because of that scene in Avengers.
As good of a reason as any, I think.
And I'm glad that I did, because it's really enormous fun.Yes, the exact dialog and the exact character designs are a bit dated.
But George Perez is an artist I don't think I could ever get tired of, and the plot and pacing are exciting and absorbing.
Thanos is a very intimidating opponent under any circumstances, and now with almost unlimited power, nobody can truly beat him but himself.
No, it's not high art, but if this is a preview of Avengers 2, it'll be a fabulous movie.
For the most part this graphic novel keeps a nice balance between message, story and visual elements, that is when the story doesn't become cosmically imbalanced by the battle between the various powerful entities.The Marvel Universe, during its formative era, created a mixture of various entities to represent the different immortal concepts of the world.
The story in this particular collected tale focuses on these entities, particularly Death, and looks at how even the all-powerful Marvel heroes are powerless compared to the might of the gods.
Thanos, being an evil madman uses that power to do a lot of insane and wicked things, so heroes and villains of the Marvel universe team up to stop him.Pros:The story is crazy, exciting and interesting!
Thanos is a pretty awesome villain too.The narrative is great.Cons:This book can be a little confusing at times.The ending is kinda disappointing.Towards the beginning there’s a kind of needless subplot that’s just there and doesn’t have much to do with the story unless I somehow missed something.
It may be a bit hard to follow at times (which is something I am pretty surprised to say about a superhero book) but it’s super good and something I would highly recommend to fans of Marvel!4/5
Throughout the first four issues that Pérez drew, it always feels like you're getting something new with every page as the panel layouts are always changing whilst splash pages are simply breathtaking with multiple characters from Earth-bound heroes to cosmic gods battling the singular Thanos in his large shrine in space.
However, for the remaining two issues, Ron Lim takes control of artistic duties and although his art is impressive, especially when we see the aforementioned cosmic gods, the transition from one artist to the next is glaring.As often with these kind of comics, there is filler in terms of the amount of characters they are shoehorned and yet when you strip that away, Jim Stalin is telling a story about desire and power, with a compelling villain at the centre of it all.
It took a sale on ComiXology for me to finally pull the trigger on this classic story-line.I gave this 5 stars because I really enjoyed reading this.
The George Perez art was probably this story's main strength, but he only did half of it.
There isn't any permanent change despite the cataclysmic conflict in these pages.
If I mention more, it would be quite spoiler-ful.I really enjoyed the story though, so don't let my observations daunt or discourage you if you haven't read it yet.
As I have said earlier, this is a classic Marvel story.
So read it before the movie.
Well, even though there's no doubt that Thanos will kick their asses, the assault the assorted superheroes and cosmic entities launch on him in issue #4 and #5 was exhilarating, exciting, and fun even though over-the-top feats and superpowers come heavily into play because Starlin managed the impressive task of actually creating a rhythm and flow in these battles.The Infinity Gauntlet still packs a pretty nice punch after all these years, and the fact that it does makes most of the big event spectacles and crossovers that have followed in its footsteps since 1991 look like bigger jabronis than they already seemed like (that includes Starlin's own follow-ups to his miniseries, if the reviews are anything to go by).
However, she has less control than Thanos and Adam takes the opportunity to inhabit the Infinity Gems and take over the Gauntlet.
Thanos is a great villain and Adam Warlock is a quiet but dominating presence; they match each other well and the other heroes and villains of the story are just chess pieces in their long term game against each other.
There are some visceral scenes of Earth's destruction that make the stakes very clear and much of the story feels appropriately hopeless as Thanos's power continues to escalate.
Chaos ensues.Yes, the dialogue is cheesy, over the top, and filled with exposition, and yes, the art looks like it is from the 90s (spoiler alert: this comic was first published in 1991), but if you can get past those shortcomings, you are in for a cosmic ride.
Plus, you'll have a better idea where they are going with the Marvel Cinematic Universe, since Thanos and the Infinity Gems have both featured more and more heavily in the recent films.
Update: My timing on rereading this is looking even better after seeing this article today.
I don't really feel at home in the world Marvel has created, yet with all that The Avengers: Infinity War hype (that I have fallen for as well, there is no denying), I was intrigued to find out how the Cinematic Universe compares to its prototype.
There are a few twists that I wasn't too happy with, as it took a lot of urgency away for me personally and made me wonder what exactly is being fought here, but at the same time I have to give credit for this still being so readable over twenty years after its original publication.
Then "Fancy Pants".) All I seek is your love and approval.-Needy Thanos (actual quote)Let nihilism reign supreme!-Evil Thanos (That's more like it.)No, wait: I have given you your every wish and the universe to boot!
I would do anything to just once hear you speak my name aloud!-Thanos, creepy, needy stalker Well, at that point he's really pissed.
Figuring out he can't win her heart (well, it's actually Death, so I don't know if she has a heart), he creates his own girlfriend with the power of the infinity gems.
Yes, this is what Thanos does with the Infinity Gems: 1.

Even though I only jumped on the Marvel bandwagon after the Avengers movies came out, I've been trying to redeem myself by catching up on a lot of the old (and new) comics. And let me tell you...... this one...  this one ...... seriously, you just have to read it. It's that good.I mean, I was expecting it to be good, because Marvel's making a couple of movies out of it. But I wasn't expecting to see so many awesome superheroes jam-packed into one series, with so many heroic victories (and defeat
Even though I only jumped on the Marvel bandwagon after the Avengers movies came out, I've been trying to redeem myself by catching up on a lot of the old (and new) comics.
And let me tell you......
seriously, you just have to read it.
It's that good.I mean, I was expecting it to be good, because Marvel's making a couple of movies out of it.
But I wasn't expecting to see so many awesome superheroes jam-packed into one series, with so many heroic victories (and defeats too).
(view spoiler)[Also, I'm just gonna put this out there.
(hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2.75 starsIt started off a little weakly but picked up. The plot overall was what kept me reading because I almost gave up on this numerous times. I just wanted to see what happened in the end and it seems to wrap up nicely (despite questions that would obviously be present after an event of this proportion).I guess I'm glad I read this even if it was kind of a drag. It gives a good amount of information on the Infinity Guantlet and that will be good to know for upcoming Marvel movies.Artwork: APlot: AClarity when reading: BCharacterization: BDialogue: B
Starlin writes a damn fine comic - this is a Big Space Event that works, with lots of self-aggrandising moments for Thanos and Warlock, and plenty of occasion where fortunes in battle turn on a dime to keep us on the edge.
Adam Warlock is an insane Space Jesus, prone to arrogance and fits of power.
Dr. Doom is oddly petulant, not regal.
Makes me wonder if Doom has just gotten wiser in his advancing years, or he’s just learned to hold in his special fluids and channel that sexual energy.
Read this because of the Avengers movie that was recently released was based off it. While borrowing a few concepts, the book itself is an entirely different and no less epic story. While it sometimes suffers from Thanos’s endless pontificating, it’s just thrilling to see all your favorite heroes fighting together against such a powerful foe with the highest of stakes. Yeah, this is the kind of story that comic books were invented to tell.
As I was an X-Men & ElfQuest fan originally, and did not read many Avenger titles, Thanos is a new character to me.
Two other characters that I have recently come to know better in this book and last week’s JLA/Avengers are Galatcus and Nebula.
While I vaguely remembered Nebula from Guardians of the Galaxy (I have not seen part 2 yet), I find it funny that my first connection to Galatcus came from The Unbeatable Squirrel Girl!I enjoyed reading throw back stories these two weeks, for they give me a better understanding of past adventures and spotlighted characters I didn’t know that well.
Find this and many other reviews at Geekritique!As we get ever closer to the inevitable Avengers: Infinity War films, which will close out Phase 3 of the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Thanos is on a mission to unite the six Infinity Stones to complete the Infinity Gauntlet, harnessing complete and total power.
It sees the mad-Titan 'Thanos' challenge the Marvel universe a third time, this time wielding the power of all six Infinity Gems (as they are referred to in the comics), each possessing the unique element of either Mind, Soul, Space, Time, Reality, or Power.
You'd think flying around in tech armor like some goddamn anime character would scratch the itch, but it's just not the same as getting housed on bourbon and filling that helmet with vomit.I'm sure there are some heroes who have good relationships.
Moving blows, you guys.Soul Gem: Basically, people on TV would become like a kid playing with dolls.
Mmm mmm, oooh, Bernie Sanders, you're such a good kisser!"Reality Gem: I feel like this one is a little underused.
I think I'd end up using it to fuck with Comcast.Mind Gem: Huh. A lot like the soul gem.
