https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1145854.New_Seeds_of_Contemplation
He also believed wholeheartedly in the need for a writer to have space to think and be alone - what he called “silence and solitude.”In New Seeds of Contemplation, Merton introduces his readers to the idea of contemplation as a way of life.
Even more so, if you have ever wanted to think about how to slow down, catch your breath, and by do doing, live your life more fully, this book will capture your spirit and heart.
I have a huge crush on Merton. He is the grace my Abba gave me in the silence. I weep when I read him and sigh, and say, I feel exactly the same way...over and over again. Read him, if you doubt, if you wonder, if you wander, if you think about your faith.
If there were a dozen more Mertons in the world, I'm convinced there would be peace on earth.That being said, Brother Tom plunges into a book in which he attempts to lay the groundwork, or to set the vibe for one's odyssey into contemplation.
There are also moments when I sat, thinking I believe that this is nearly identical to what he said two chapters ago.
I do not want to downplay this aspect of Merton's work: he sees the hollowness of the American system decades ago.
Other times, I felt like skipping some pages, but did not expecting an epiphany to leap from the page.
However, nothing I've read in a long time has done as much to make me doubt components of my faith and even wonder whether I am really that much of a Christian.In this series of short, interconnected essays, Merton takes on all comers, from over-earnest monks to the vagaries of the modern business world, and he is a compelling advocate for a life spent in earnest contemplation of God. But then come the particulars.
Merton was just another in this long line.I liked "New Seeds of Contemplation." It was engaging, at times vibrant and beautiful.
It reads like one long prayer, which is lovely.
Maybe some of it was just over my head, because I don't have that kind of relationship with God. I partly wish that Merton would have used simpler language in expressing his "seeds of contemplation."On the other hand, as the title implies, this book absolutely does its job in provoking ideas for contemplation.
I especially loved the chapter called "Sentences" which, unlike the other chapters, just contained short, proverb-like expressions instead of long paragraphs on a given subject.
I found these very inspiring and excellent for meditation.I would recommend this to someone who is working on deepening his/her prayer life.
New Seeds of Contemplation is not a book that can be read without times of ardent reflection.
New Seeds of Contemplation by Thomas MertonMy rating: 5 of 5 starsI began reading this book in 1996, completing it perhaps a year later.
At a time in my life when my soul yearned for some sense of reason beyond my daily encounters - Thomas Merton's New Seeds of Contemplation struck a timely cord.
At a time in my life when my soul yearned for some sense of reason beyond my daily encounters - Thomas Merton's New Seeds of Contemplation struck a timely cord.
His spiritual insight became the foundation of his public voice, knowing that only the truth found in God would be powerful enough to overcome the powers and structures of this world.While other writings of Merton's are more outward oriented, this book contains many devotional reflections on the inward life, finding the hidden places of the Spirit where deep calls unto deep.
For just as the wind carries thousands of winged seeds, so each moment brings with it germs of spiritual vitality that come to rest imperceptibly in the minds and wills of men." God is awakening us, bringing us into the light, and Merton, through his writings, encourages us to come alive in the Spirit.An amazing book!
Glad I read this book, and would pass it along to anyone wondering about prayers and meditation.
There were a couple of chapters and some parts of the book I glossed over because I am reluctant to believe it is possible to arrive at perfection as a contemplative.
And this book would be a challenge to someone who gets stuck on the male gender assigned to God, but I personally did not find that inhibiting.
I consider Merton to be a sage of our time, encouraging us to find God and the will of God in the quiet stillness and in our daily work and interactions.
This is a book to put on your nightstand and read slowly, a few pages at a time. And then take a break to process it, and read again. So much of what Thomas Merton talks about in this book made my heart race, because I recognized it. I hope someday I am able to experience the parts I have not--yes, even the "deserts" and "darkness" he references routinely. His grasp of the human person and resistance to God makes so much clear about the world today, especially attitudes among both self-righteous religious and anti-religious.
I just can't seem to get enough of Thomas Merton, this is a book not to be rushed but savored slowly. Often I found I had to re-read a passage to get the meaning and once I "got it" the lightbulb shone brightly! I wouldn't recommend this book for the new believer because it delves heavily into the inner spiritual life. The concepts and spirituality he discusses might discourage or confuse a new believer in Christ. I am a forever fan of his and I have been slowly building my personal library of his books.
Sometimes essay, sometimes vignette, sometimes proverb, this deep collection of wisdom provides multiple jumping-off points for personal meditation and explorative understanding of the Divine.I think I was a Merton fan before I ever read him.
and perhaps if he believed you were capable of loving him, he would no longer be your enemy." (177)"If you have money, consider that perhaps the only reason God allowed it to fall into your hands was in order that you might find joy and perfection by giving it all away." (179)"Before you can be a saint you have got to become human." (256)Merton, Thomas.
Quite often, St. John of the Cross is cited as one of the greatest mystics in the Christian tradition, and I was inclined to agree for many years, until I began reading Seeds of Contemplation, when I was in my first year of spiritual formation in the seminary.
Merton transcends the limitations of the medieval mystics' ability to make contemplative spirituality something grittier, more real and raw, especially for those new to the practice.
New Seeds of Contemplation is an updated version of his earlier thoughts, which was born out of more than a decade of spiritual practice and experience.
I am listening to the audiobook version.
It brings such light.One thing that he shows clearly, is how solitude is really much less lonely than to be lost in the crowd.
On the contrary, Thomas Merton shows very clearly the distinction between loving acceptance and cowardly ignoring.
So I miss large parts of it and will start over immediately when I finish.--------------------UPDATE: Just finished listening to this great audiobook.
I thought the book was narrated in a good way, quiet and carefully read, so that it was easy to follow.
But I think I must buy the book also, in order to really read it, and ponder each sentence that strikes me.
Although I haven't read all his books yet, New Seeds of Contemplation is in my mind his greatest work.
Most of these unnumbered seeds perish and are lost, because men are not prepared to receive them: for such seeds as these cannot spring up anywhere except in the soil of freedom, spontaneity and love." ~ Thomas MertonIn New Seeds of Contemplation Merton takes us to deeper levels in our spiritual walk, teaching us about faith and humility, thoughtfully helping us to find our true identity in Christ.
If you are on a serious spiritual growth path, seeking a clearer understanding of your relationship to God, this is the book for you.
I've been reading this book as part of my morning prayer through Advent and most of Epiphany.
I'm Episcopalian, not Roman Catholic, as Merton was, so a couple of the chapters didn't ring 100% on target for me, but even those I gained a greater appreciation for aspects of my prayer life.
It's not a "to-do" book on meditation, but includes some "tips" along with sort of a theoretical approach to the how, when, why, and what of contemplative meditation.I started reading this book several years ago, and was put off my its density and the male point of view.
This is quintessential Merton - illuminating and vexing. He was omniscient without realizing it. In what he wrote about the militarization of the U.S. in 1961, one could replace Russian with Korea and not tell the difference. His writing on peace, criticism of our government, and the failures of men to contain their desires never ring more true than today. He bemoans the influence of automation and technology on declining values in the country and again ditto for 2018.
Over the last few years, I have found it beneficial to include reading a bit from different spiritual masters each day.
This book could easily be included in my top ten books of all time.
Merton is writing on a different level of spiritual connection with the Divine, a level I am sure I've never experienced.
I know Merton would not want his book to be read an forgotten, so I think I need to spend more time chewing on his words (and the words of scripture, and sitting in silence and other spiritual disciplines).
Just the way Merton explains what “contemplation” is and is not and the concept of our outer self and a new self which we need to awaken—notions he hinted at enough in "Seven Storey Mountain"--is enticing enough to make this spiritual manual hard to put down.
The chapters are usually less than ten pages and short enough for a concerted uninterrupted focus.
I am willing to give it five stars if it wasn’t such hard going through some chapters.
He is maybe easier than Chesterton but difficult in other ways.
Merton does it in thirty-nine ways that is the number of the short chapters.
Merton wrote this book in 1939 at age 24, the year he was planning to become a Franciscan monk.
The book and the search is frankly above/beyond me, but it answered some questions.
You can almost hear him struggling to find his path in this book.
The main theme is to get away from all worldliness and self promotion and to figure out how to live for others as one humanity through God. This is not a useful book for anyone actually trying to answer philosophical questions.
Merton wrote over 70 books in his short life.
Parts of it were insufferable.
Parts of it were like the best thing I ever read.
Place no hope in the inspirational preachers of Christian sunshine, who are able to pick you up and set you back on your feet and make you feel good for three or four days - until you fold up and collapse into despair.3.Any joy that does not overflow from our souls and help other men to rejoice in God does not come to us from God.
A classic Christian spirituality book that has a somewhat rambling style and structure while doling out immensely valuable gems on prayer and contemplation. Merton's book isn't a step by step how to book, but it does widen and deepen the reader's understanding of prayer. It's a rich collection that, taken as it is presented, will prove helpful for one's overall mindset toward prayer and push readers to dig deeper into contemplation. New Seeds of Contemplation is definitely one of my favorite Merton books and is one that I keep on my shelf to reference frequently.
I'm not Catholic, but I was very intrigued and often convinced by Merton's writing of the mystical. This is a theological study on what contemplation is, along with a broader conceptualization of the "cosmic dance," which seemed almost Buddhist to me. But with incarnation. Oh, don't ask me to explain.I particularly liked Merton's view of work and his take on the early chapters of Genesis. His writing also makes me want to disappear into a monastery and get some peace and quiet. Perhaps that's part of the appeal of Merton's work . . .
While this isn't a difficult book to read, it is a deep book.
It is rich in philosophical insights and simple in form.
Towards the end of the book, Merton began to seem so foreign and exotic to my Western Christianity that I had trouble hanging with him as he entered the realm of the mystic.
This book is definitely one to come back to after years of spiritual growth and development, but I am glad I read it now because it gives me something to look forward to in the future and it provided much light for the journey at present.
This is among the best and most useful books i have ever read concerning life, prayer, and transformation. Merton understands the dynamics of our humanity through deep reflection and understanding of his own dichotomy. He differentiates between the ego (mask) and the real person and describes how we spend so much time mistaking the ego for the person; building the ego and missing the person. He offers hope through humility and discovery.
New Seeds is more abstract than the author’s other books (i.e., Seven Storey Mountain, Sign of Jonah). It is very observant of the human condition and the various states of ennui and incompleteness that we face. Its poetic prose almost speaks directly to the soul in addressing the reasons for one's lack of fulfillment or satisfaction over time. And it is interspersed with topics for deep reflection and practical tips for dealing with obstacles in one's prayer life.
This is one of the only books I've read that coherently describes contemplation as an act of life rather than something done cross legged in a room. The great thing about Merton is he wanted prayer to be like breathing. But I also love that he didn't dodge the Catholic Church here and make it a bland book about "spirituality." His ode to Mary is one of the most beautiful things written about the Mother of God.
A brilliant examination of human identity, meditation, and spiritual practice.I read 3/4 of this years ago, but, honestly, I didn't grasp what Merton was trying to convey. Now, having read other Christian masters of meditation like Richard Rohr, I had a much different experience. The last 10-20% of the book was for monastics devoted to a full-time practice, but I still found great value in Merton's insights.
I believe Thomas Merton to be one of the top spiritual writers of the twentieth century. Much of his writing is a difficult read and over my head, but it's also full of easily understood gems that hit at the core of an intimate relationship with God. I especially enjoyed the second half of the book, highlighting a great deal of it for future meditation. Although not canonized, I consider Merton a saint.
Merton is the perfect remedy for folks who live in their heads (like me). He meets us there but doesn't let us stay. All the conceptual wrestling that can (and sometimes should) take place in the journey of faith finds a context in the mystery and silence that makes up much of one's knowledge of God.
How beautiful and rich. How deeply I desire to accept everything as God's love for me in his will, and join the dance he is ever inviting us into. To see him in everything and everyone and live in the wonder. The middle half of the book was a bit tedious, but the beginning and end chapters make it well worth the read. I'll be contemplating these beautiful ideas for a while.Awaken us, O Lord.
