https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12534.Teaching_a_Stone_to_Talk
Reading Dillard is like watching a figure skater. You don't really understand or appreciate what you've just experienced until you try to walk across an icy sidewalk.
Every time I read Annie Dillard I become more responsible.
In general.
Her words are purposeful, she addresses sorrow, beauty and terror with nouns and adjectives that, if you aren't careful, look like every other noun and adjective you have ever read.
But this isn't so.
There is not a wasted syllable.
Read about the Deer at Provenance, a story about a young fawn tied to a tree, resigning to the despair of its own death, and the people that circle around, quietly, and watch.
And then read how she balances words like 'slender' with 'violence'.
And then Expedition to the Pole!
Wholly unexpected and completely amazing. I see the reviews of my fellow Goodreaders and I can echo them, Dillard is an artist and her words both perplexed and thrilled me (the polar expedition histories interspersed with detailed observations about the eclectic praise band at her church - finally meshing together with a trippy baby christening on an arctic ice flow??) WOW. She made me laugh out loud.  It is madness to wear a ladies straw hat and velvet hats to church - we should all be wearing
I see the reviews of my fellow Goodreaders and I can echo them, Dillard is an artist and her words both perplexed and thrilled me (the polar expedition histories interspersed with detailed observations about the eclectic praise band at her church - finally meshing together with a trippy baby christening on an arctic ice flow??) WOW.
We might as well get a feel for the fringes and hollows in which life is lived.
More Dillard!Also, I loved this opinion piece from The Guardian that I stumbled on when reading more about her work by Geoff Dyer: Teaching A Stone to Talk made me realise I am drawn to wild authors.
Although I am not, generally, a reader of nature studies, Dillard's essays seem just perfect to me.
If I had a single criticism, it would be that she generally ties in a theme or moral to her story to the extent that it would almost seems forced , but the language is so beautifully descriptive and the resolutions so elegant, that I am willing to forgive her for it.In "Total Eclipse" she manages to describe the experience of witnessing a total solar eclipse in ways that are otherworldly and profoundly beautiful (and even slightly terrifying).
Nothing has made me want to experience a solar eclipse myself more than Dillard's essay.
This is a book of essays: some reflective, mostly descriptive.
Sometimes I was reading and thinking, "What the hell is she talking about?" But, it's worth it to keep reading because there are phrases and paragraphs that are just golden:From "Total Eclipse": "The mind—the culture—has two little tools, grammar and lexicon: a decorated sand bucket and a matching shovel."From "An Expedition to the Pole": "It all seems a pit at first, for I have overcome a fiercely anti-Catholic upbringing in order to attend Mass simply and solely to escape Protestant guitars.
Why are they not mumbling in Latin and performing superstitious rituals?"From "Living Like Weasels": "Our eyes locked, and someone threw away the key....It felled the forest, moved the fields, and drained the pond; the world dismantled and tumbled into that black hole of eyes."And many more...
Here, she smashes her examinations of the lives of arctic explorers together with her impressions of a largely mundane Catholic service in a surreal mish-mash that clumsily does the work she will later allow her readers to do themselves.
And while I like this far less that some of her other work, Dillard is a writer that I will be coming back to again and again because she continues to demand answers of the world, despite its recalcitrance.
It invokes a nomadic people’s sense of vagrancy, a praying people’s knowledge of estrangement, a thinking people’s intuition of a sharp loss: ‘For we are strangers before thee, and sojourners, as were our fathers: our days on the earth are as a shadow, and there is none abiding.’We don’t know where we belong, but in times of sorrow it doesn’t seem to be here, here with these silly pansies and witless mountains, here with sponges and hard-eyed birds.
In times of sorrow the innocence of the other creatures—from whom and with whom we evolved—seems a mockery.
No one ever succeeds in teaching a stone to talk, but if Dillard could teach me how to write even half as well as she does, I think that'd be about the same thing.
it's no good hoping that the next story will NOT be over-written and NOT airy-fairy.
Best to relax, accept and enjoy the good stuff."The Deer at Providencia" - Still in Ecuador and contemplating the unsolvable - suffering and death.
Once again I'm reminded of the guy in the Alaskan bush in the school bus = "Into the Wild" another personality in extremis.Last night's two readings were good examples of the up-and-down nature of this book for me.
to be positive I say that Annie Dillard deserves credit for trying to write in a way that's true to her vision of the world.
Reflecting on its life, she says that “The weasel lives in necessity and we live in choice, hating necessity and dying at the last ignobly in its talons.” In another story, at a church where there was the custom of saying “peace be with you” to those nearby in the pew, the proper response was the same, “peace be with you.” Sitting next to two “teen-aged lugs,” Dillard said, “peace be with you,” and one of the lugs replied, “Yeah.” On a hilltop near Yakima, Washington, Dillard spots Crab Nebula, and comments that “It expands at the rate of seventy million miles a day.
This one was recommended by readers I trust, but I simply couldn't like it no matter how much I tried.
There are very nice bits here and there, but those bits are smothered by the essays' constant habit of insisting on themselves, sometimes explicitly but more often through precious repetitions; heavy, obvious images and symbols; and tortured syntax that says, 'Here comes something meaningful.' Lots of self-indulgence, self-consciousness, coyness, "voice"--all filling in the voids of thought.
Maybe the most damning thing to be said--and there are instances of this on almost every page--is that many phrases, sometimes entire sentences, are simply unintelligible.
Simply one of the best essay collections I can ever remember reading. Annie is warm and funny, but also thoughtful and quirky, and so much of the time you're never entirely sure where the essay is going to arrive. This uncertain quality is a nice feature of any essay, to my mind; I love essays that still keep Montaigne's sense of the word "essai" as "an attempt." That said, each of these pieces, long and short, is impeccably crafted, and loaded with memorable side-paths and stunning turns of phrase. Now I know why everyone loves her so much.
We also meet the man who inspired the title of the book, who is Teaching a stone to speak; most will think this a futile gesture, but as Dillard explains, it is his way of communing with the natural world at the pace he desires.The silence is all there is.
Her childlike fascination with the world around is evident in the book and she manages to deftly entwine this with themes of exploration and discovery and how we can use it to watch and observe the things that happen around us.
God needs nothing, asks nothing, and demands nothing, like the stars.
It is a life with God which demands these things.Experiences has taught the race that if knowledge of God is the end, then these habits of life are not the means but the condition in which the means operates.
You do not have to do these things--unless you want to know God. They work on you, not on him.You do not have to sit outside in the dark.
But the stars neither require nor demand it.
One Hasidic slaughterer, whose work required invoking the Lord, bade a tearful farewell to his wife and children every morning before he set out for the slaughterhouse.
Each time I tried to read this book I would notice my boyfriend laughing, what I didn't notice was that I would sit down heavily and sigh as though someone was making me do knuckle push-ups.
I was loaned this book by a wealthy, bored woman that I work for and thought it would be polite of me to read the book that means so much to her.
Today I decided I'm done fighting.
I'm tired of hearing about "god" and self-righteous observations of nature and man conquering it.
I found this book pompous, boring, and excruciating to try to read.
Adventurous collection of essays, generally on the intersection of God, humans, and nature. I could wish the whole book more unified, and more descriptively personal (like  An American Childhood) than spiritually/emotionally so. But she writes so musically well that I enjoy every piece, no matter how strange or discordant the tune. Favorites: "The Deer at Providencia" and "On a Hill Far Away."
Amazing short stories, heart achingly beautiful renderings of fleeting moments within the natural world. Her stories are written both with clarity and an impressionistic aura. Treat yourself to the story Total Eclipse to see what I am unable to capably put into words.
2.5 Stars*Disclaimer: I read the majority of the essays in the book, but only the ones required for school*When I remember that books are primarily for our entertainment and edification, I come down hard on this book.It didn't do much of either for me.
Beautifully written and it bored the hell out me.
I gave up reading after 1/3 of the way through. Too random for me.
3.5 starsI wanted to like this more than l did. I think I'll try another book by Annie Dillard, because I have heard such good things of her. Maybe I was just reading this at the wrong time.
Like all of Dillard’s non-fiction, this fairly short book of essays is overflowing with strange word combinations and unique reflections, rife with gorgeously vivid descriptions, and filled with insights that give one regular moments of pause.
Of course I began with this first essay, which was excellent, before continuing on to “An Expedition,” and thus I committed to reading the entire book.
Some of these essays are quite short, seeming to be simply a brief thought or interesting observation expanded upon, and others would be good choices to search out online for those not interested in committing to the entire book.
Annie Dillard roams the earth an explorer.
In Teaching A Stone to Talk she invites the reader into her expeditions and encounters with creatures, both human and animal, but also inanimate ones, like stones.From Puget Sound to the Galapagos Island, the author uses microscope, telescope and polarized sunglasses to examine her world.
I learned something about an expedition to the South Pole through her eyes, a deer caught in more than headlights and a man named Larry who, in his own way, teaches a stone to talk.
Storyteller Dillard once again has narrated sharp-eyed stories of both suffering and splendor.

Nu blir det Dillardpaus p.g.a. naturskildringsoverload efter tre D på kort tid.Några rader från slutet av boken möter min egen verklighet, så här i början på sommarledigheten:"You know what it's like to open up a cottage. You barge in with your box of groceries and your duffelbag full of books. You drop them on a counter and rush to the far window to look out [...] Opening up a summer cottage is like being born this way: at the moment you enter, you have all the time you are ever going to have."
Reading other reviews of Annie Dillard was more enjoyable than reading her book. She never taught that stone to talk. I am still trying to comprehend what either of them were trying to say. I do feel I need to apologize because i too love to write. I enjoy beautiful phrases that evokes human emotion but at some point the reader must leave fulfilled. Ask my husband, and he says the same of my attempts at writing my thoughts. I have stopped letting him read my pieces.
Annie Dillard is one of my favorite authors and I have enjoyed reading and re-reading her books ever since I discovered and loved Pilgrim at Tinker Creek fifteen years ago. She captures the natural world in all its everyday glory and mystery and makes you want to walk in the woods and listen to the wind or maybe travel to the arctic and walk on the ice.
Living Like Weasels is the best essay I have ever read, bar none. Annie Dillard deserves every award she ever got plus a few she didn't.
Annie Dillard can do no wrong. While not my favorite Dillard, this book is still amazing, which speaks to the power of her abilities. If I ever write anything in the image of Dillard, I will have written something successful.
I would consider several of these essays to be some of the most striking bits of prose I have ever read. I have read this collection many times over the years, and am amazed every time.
