https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2175877.The_Brimming_Cup
The main players are her husband Neale, Mr Welles (a newly retired city man who has just arrived next door), Marise’s childhood friend Eugenia who has come to stay, Vincent Marsh (a charismatic friend of Mr Welles who is independently wealthy), Nelly and Gene Powers and their children and a number of minor characters.
The three children are also strong characters in their own right; Paul, Elly and Mark.Marise feels she has lost her way in her life and in her marriage and is very attracted to the charm and charisma of Vincent Marsh.
Here, I thought, is of all the unexpected things, a sequel to a book I rather liked, Rough-Hewn, which tells the story of the two characters' respective youths in alternating sections.
Interesting that Dorothy Canfield Fisher was so taken with these characters that she felt the need to revisit them.
Although one can't help but admire the things Dorothy Canfield Fisher had to say about marriage, things that still sound advanced nearly 100 years later, this is not a book I'll be rereading.2.5 rounded up to 3 out of loyalty.
I’ve just read two wonderful books by Dorothy Canfield Fisher – The Home-Maker and The Brimming Cup. Fisher was an extraordinary person who brought Montessori-type child rearing to the USA through translating Montessori books, oversaw the first adult education program in the USA, and also influenced what America read through her role in the Book of the Month Club for 26 years.
http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/14957You can find The Home-Maker used at abebooks.com in the USA and from the marvelous people at Persephone Books in the UK.
This book annoyed me.
Dorothy Canfield Fisher is a bright, experienced and spunky woman, but this novel was pretty dire.
Ths is articulated through Marise the mother.
However, there are many aspects of Marise's character which were difficult to empathise with, which distracted from the main point of discussion in the book.
She gets inside the mind of Marise quite well but that is only part of what is going on here.
Dorothy ducks that one.
The last time I read “Main Street” by Sinclair Lewis, I discovered that it was not the #1 novel of 1921, but #2.
I am amazed how similar the two are in content: the story revolves around a married woman living in rural America; both women begin to question their purpose in life; both are mothers; both have potential to “be” with a man other than their husband.
I can see why Canfield’s was more popular as our heroine actually admits that she’s “exited” by her new man in a way that her husband could never be.
Not sure if I’ll read this one again (have read “Main Street” 3 or 4 times) but I do recommend it.
I read this book at least thirty years ago, and remembered that I loved it.
The author was a favorite of my mothers.
Now that she is losing her memory, is not herself, I wanted to re read this novel, and see if it still had anything for me; to connect with the person my mother used to be.
There was a scene I didn't remember at all, a shocking and sad scene and I gasped out loud when I read it.
I wish this writer were better known today.
I think she is as good a writer as James, Hardy, Bronte.
This one was hard to finish.
You've come to the top, and, for an instant, you have a gone feeling without your stairs to climb." Lo stesso giorno, Marise riceve la visita dell'anziano Mr. Welles, il nuovo vicino di casa, e del suo amico il giovane, vitale e affascinante Vincent Marsh.
L'arrivo di Eugenia, amica di gioventù di Marise, una donna tanto chic quanto algida, sottolinea ancora di più la lontananza di Marise da quel mondo dorato di indolenza e puro godimento della bellezza che si è lasciata alle spalle.La scelta di vita dei coniugi Crittenden forse non è delle più semplici, specialmente considerando il loro background intellettuale e cosmopolita.
It had me engaged, especially towards the end, but during the start/middle of the book, I was really annoyed with the main character Marise!Some goods points on how other people perceive marriages/relationships, and what they're actually like!Also an interesting description of how the turmoil and character of our inner thoughts, compare to the exterior personality others see.The dilemma between being a mother/house wife, and a sophisticated big city lady, with only your own needs to consider, takes up a lot of this book.It just doesn't come off 100% credible, the main character Marise, has a hardworking, lovely husband Neale (who's inner monologues btw seem very full of pathos and drama for a man like him?!) , who has built a unique business, and 3 kids.
I got this book because I ADORE Dorothy Canfield Fisher. She is a wonderful writer. But I just couldn't finish this book. Interesting characters (as always in her books) The whole premise seemed to be if the main character Marise -- a wonderful, talented, vivacious woman who has chosen to marry and have a large family and live in rural Vermont -- has she wasted her life? A man comes to town who tries to convince her of this. I got tired of it so didn't finish. Perhaps some day...
Lots of emotions, little action. Descriptions of family life of a hundred years ago usually send me running. I finished this one, though, and even gleaned a thought or two. Refreshing for the genre and time: the author takes us through several people's perspective of the same event, perhaps not persistently enough.
I couldn't finish this book. Disjointed and meandering.
