https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4917450-the-lost-oasis
This is the seventh Doc Savage adventure, originally published in September 1933. The stories seem to be hitting their stride by this point, and this is a quick, breezy adventure with a couple of crazy twists that I really enjoyed. I wanted more action within the Oasis itself, but that might have made the story too similar to "Land of Terror," which had come out only a few months earlier. As it is, there's plenty to like here. You really can't go wrong with Doc Savage and a zeppelin!
A ship approaching New York City has sent a message, offering $1 million if Doc Savage will contact them. Are there friends or foes aboard? I won't say here, but the situation ends up leading Doc and his crew on an adventure to Africa. Oh, and there are vampire bats and a zeppelin, so what's not to love?
This was one of the best in the series so far. The pace was brisk and both Doc and his companions have plenty of opportunity to shine. There’s some good use of gadgetry, including a form of night vision technology. There were exotic locations and threatening wildlife, which is exactly what I look for in pulp adventure.
A hijacked zeppelin, a lost diamond mine, and deadly carnivorous vampire bats, what’s not to like. A classic Doc Savage story. Always fun and inspiring to read a good Doc Savage novel. Doc is a model of pure stoicism. A+
I like Doc Savage when he's alone. Cause when he is surrounded by people, he's nothing short of a pompous asshole. Also, sign language isn't called deaf-mute language, and Arabs aren't cinnamon-skinned camel people, 1930s author. Gross.
Another good Doc adventure that I read back in the 70s.
I'm a sucker for a good Zeppelin! Nice action-filled romp with Doc and his crew.
That was a close one...Doc Savage almost got it...I won't say what happens. Love those books.
The first Doc Savage story appeared in 1933 and the series ran in pulp and later digest format into 1949.
The characterizations were far richer than was common for the pulps; his five associates and their sometimes-auxiliary, Doc's cousin Pat, and the pets Chemistry and Habeas Corpus, all had very distinctive characteristics and their byplay was frequently more entertaining that the current adventure-of-the-month.
The settings were also fascinating: Doc's Fortress of Solitude, the Hidalgo Trading Company (which served as a front for his armada of vehicles), and especially the mysterious 86th floor headquarters all became familiar haunts to the reader, and the far-flung adventures took the intrepid band to exotic and richly-described locations all over the world.
The Doc Savage books have always been my favorite entertainments...
Doc follows the perpetrators and he and his gang stow away on a mysterious ghost zeppelin that takes them to a remote part of Africa where they must outwit evil criminal masterminds, dodge gigantic, poisonous vampire bats, and stay out of the clutches of huge, carnivorous plants while they free the slaves the villains have working the diamond mines of the oasis.As far as Doc Savage adventures go, this one fell a little flat, as if the author was on Valium when he wrote it.
This is just proof of how important location is in an adventure yarn, as too much time was spent with Doc and the gang hiding in the zeppelin, which just wasn’t very exciting.
Doc and his pals try to save a woman in peril against evil slavers in the deepest part of Africa.
Lester Dent coming up with a most amazing plot in this one, with an oasis in the middle of the African desert that has giant man eating plants and giant poisonous vampire bats.
Yuttal and Hani-Mot are the evil slavers, and they've been collecting people to work in their diamond mine in the middle of this oasis.
Dent seemed to love these airships, because Doc will use more as the series progresses.
Another woman gets disappointed when Doc won't pay any attention to her.
This is #6 of the Bantam Books series from the 1960s with the marvelous cover illustrations by James Bama.
Someday maybe I'll try to figure out how out of order Bantam published them compared to their original releases back in the mid-30s.
This story is typical Doc Savage fare: he's just returned from his Fortress of Solitude to find there is a $1 million reward for anyone who finds him.
As usual, its non-stop action for the Savage crew, but there's nothing particularly outstanding about the tale.
Tales of a misterious ghost Zeppelin haunt the world.
Long lost missing persons reappear only to die of terror and madness.
An english noblewoman flees from a fate worst than death.All this sets Doc Savage and the Fabulous Five against a gang of slavers that capture ships and its travellers to use them as slaves in a diamond mining operation in lost oasis in Africa.
The result is a bloody showdown, one of the most serious before the "no-kill" phase of Doc and his friends.A somewhat disappointing adventure.
Oh, c'mon, a GHOST ZEPPELIN, how cool is that?
Doc and his team must hide away on a zeppelin to get to the bottom of a mystery involving diamonds, slaves, and a beautiful, aristocratic captive. They find themselves fighting amazing killing creatures hungry for a man's blood and mercenaries determined to add them to the ranks of slaves. Why is the "oasis" not a safe haven and how will the imperiled crew and the victims ever make it back to civilization alive? A notable story in that the featured female character is brave and calm not flighty and swooning as usual--though, of course, she falls in love with Doc!
Of all the pulp era heroes few stand out above the crowd, Doc Savage is one of these. With his 5 aides and cousin he adventures across the world. Fighting weird menaces, master criminals and evil scientists Doc and the Fab 5 never let you down for a great read. These stories have all you need; fast paced action, weird mystery, and some humor as the aides spat with each other. My highest recommendation.
This was my first Doc Savage book and it wasn't too bad considering it is pulp fiction. Originally written in the 30's, these books are quite dated. But, then again, that's part of the fun of reading them.
Doc and company have to deal with a zeplin crash, trained vampire bats, a beautiful damsel, evil villains and the Oasis mentioned in the title.One of the best stories from one of the greatest pulp series of all time.
Good story in the Doc Savage saga.
probably read some time in 1966
