https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37947.The_Pusher
The whole mess hits just a little too close to home for one of the detectives.Once again, I LOVE the way McBain describes weather:Winter came in like an anarchist with a bomb.
They had been enmeshed in the slow-dying lethargy of autumn, and now winter was upon them, rapping their teeth with knuckles of ice.If only the local weatherman was as articulate...though I'd settle for accurate.________________________________________This edition of the book has an interesting afterward by McBain.
(view spoiler)[This title was to be Steve Carella's swan song.
McBain killed him.
Until the next book.
(hide spoiler)]
It's such a miserable effort to disguise a murder as a suicide that Steve Carella and the other detectives of the 87th Precinct can't even figure out why someone made the effort, especially when it becomes clear that the victim actually died of an overdose.Any number of people might have wanted the pusher dead, including the new dealer who takes over his territory.
But then other people begin dying and an anonymous caller informs Carella's boss, Lt. Pete Burns, that the fingerprints on the syringe discovered next to the body belong to no one other than the Lieutenant's own son.This is a pretty good, if very dated, book in Ed McBain's long-running 87th Precinct series.
It seems for years I've been reading about the 87th Precinct series - what a groundbreaker it was and how Ed McBain has been such an influence on writers of mysteries since the 1950s when this series started.
At first, it appears to be a suicide, but an autopsy reveals he had a massive dose of heroin which actually killed him and the rope around his neck was not tied in a way that the victim could have done it.
Turns out that she was the sister of the first victim - which only raises more questions.Carella hits the streets in search of the dead pusher's possible supplier - a punk who goes by the name of Gonzo.
'The citizens grinned into the wind, but the wind was not in a smiling mood.'After that it gets down to business, the shadows are swept aside and the cold only nips at the narrative infrequently as McBain gets down to populating his police procedural with interesting characters.
I'd recommend this series to anybody who liked the first 20 minutes of 'On Dangerous Ground' and fans of Dragnet or Hill Street Blues, though it's a nightmare trying to dig these things up cheaply over half a century since they first gave us a twirl on those paperback spindles.
I never cared much about reading Ed McBain and his 87th Precinct novels.
I didn't care much for the Cop on the beat character.
I didn't care for the side characters the pimps, prostitutes, grinning thugs with their shiny knives, the down and outs, the ne'er-do-wells, the grieving moms in their faded dresses saying their little boy wouldn't do anything like that.
So, I'm going to read more of these, cause their good.
And, all I'm gonna ask of you, is that if you haven't already read this guy, then please by all means, avoid the mistakes of a younger man.Amen
The story moves along at a nice pace, mainly following Carella's investigation but also covering his boss, Lt Byrnes as he must deal with issues surrounding his son.It's more than just an investigation, although having said that, there are interesting pieces of forensic work and excellent interrogations that are realistic and well-crafted.
But you also get into the personal lives of the detectives; Carella's relationship with is lovely wife Teddy and Byrnes' troubled but powerful relationship with his wife and son.
I loved how McBain took time to present the city and the people who lived there.
The opening paragraph is incredibly evocative prose that I hadn't expected to find and immediately hoped for a lot more of it in the rest of the book but aside from the chapter on the beat cop feeling the cold before he finds the first body the rest of the novel is pretty ordinary in its lyricism.The ensemble in the 87th grows with each book, leaving Carella as a central character but not overly prominent and Kling virtually nonexistent, adding more on the Lieutenant who runs the division.
This stuff is an infuriatingly easy device from McBain and if it happens in the 4th book I shall sell the other 20 in the series that I've picked up so far without even reading them.I like it, but I want more from a 50+ book series to warrant giving so much time to it.
Reading a series in order!
Well, full disclosure, I've been reading 87th precinct novels for quite some time-- out of order, of course.
But recently, I've begun the series from the beginning, and it's a hoot.The Pusher is the 3rd in the series, and it's really interesting to see how McBain began with the notion of an ensemble cast of detectives that would be interchangeable, with no featured hero or singular protagonist.
Well, read this book and in the afterword you'll find a very interesting note from McBain re: how his original plan became somewhat modified.
If nothing else, this little bit from the author makes the book worthwhile.
Good call to read this while snowed in for the weekend. Bitterly cold, right before Christmas, the setting matches up with the story. And a great story it is, too. I can see why the 87th Precinct set the standard for a generation of writers. Some of the best parts didn’t even have to do with the case.  “Some of the people saw through the sham and the electrical glitter and the skinny Santa Clauses with straggly beards lining Hall Avenue. Some of the people felt something other than what the adve
Good call to read this while snowed in for the weekend.
Bitterly cold, right before Christmas, the setting matches up with the story.
And a great story it is, too.
I can see why the 87th Precinct set the standard for a generation of writers.
“Some of the people saw through the sham and the electrical glitter and the skinny Santa Clauses with straggly beards lining Hall Avenue.
Some of the people felt something other than what the advertising men wanted them to feel.
Some of the people felt good, and kind, and happy to be alive.”
A very good 87th precinct police prodecural about a pusher who tries to blackmail a police lt. by setting up his son for a murder charge. Carella's snitch cracks the case, after Carella is shot three times by a punk pusher. Exciting, well done, recommended to lovers of the 87th precint.
Both this book and IMN feature portrayals of drug addiction, even though they are in most other ways (e.g., length, swankiness of literary reputation, decade of composition, intended audience) very different.
How should a good book portray drug addiction?
There was a period, seemingly a long time ago but still in my lifetime, where people wrote with a straight face (damn, mixed metaphor...
He made a new phenomenon real to a whole slew of people.There are many ways to make a good book good.
DFW's good book is probably more profound, but McBain's good book may touch more people directly and less self-consciously.
Nemám moc ráda drogové detektivky, proto strhávám hvězdu, jinak nemám námitek. A opět jsem ráda, že už mám přečtené nějaké pozdější díly.
I love Ed McBain’s 87th Precinct series.Who else but Ed McBain could open a police procedural novel with a two page description of the city in winter?
And make no mistake about it, Ed McBain is a good – make that great – storyteller.In many ways, this is a much more cerebral novel than many of the others.
McBain treats us to more introspection by Steve Carella and other characters - his wife, Teddy, and Lieutenant Byrnes - here.This is the 41st novel in the series that I’ve read.
Only 16 more to go before I’ve read them all.
But then, I’ll be sad because I won’t have any more to read.
I'm enjoying the way these books read and the internal ongoing life of the setting.I also love the lack of technology and techno speak to solve problems.
These feel like old school investigations.Because of the way they were sold there is not room within the book for grand passages of description or metaphor but like choc chips in a cookie the author does sprinkle moments of description and the odd wonderfully written line to help bring the city to life through the text.I'm enjoying slowly working through these books.

Another solid entry in the series. Maybe it was just the mood I was in when I read it, but the descriptions in The Pusher seemed even more overwrought than they were in the first two 87th Precinct novels. Also, some of the "ironic" transitions were hilariously bad. The dialogue, plot, and storytelling were all top-notch, however, so I was perfectly happy.
A case for Steve Carella and L.t Byrnes. A suicide is a murder and this leads to further assaults and murder and an officer shot. A good fast pace with some good description of the freezing weather of December. I doubt if cops go anywhere alone today. A good read and hooks me to the series.
My 1st Ed McBain novel, I hope it was a off book. Not very engaging
I love this series. I'm trying to read ever single book. This book was kind of sad. I like all the cops and their lives.
Whoever killed the mule Anibal made it a suicide setup but wanted the police to know it was a murder.
Detective Steve Carella, back from his honeymoon; and newly promoted, from rookie patrolman to detective/3rd grade, Bert Kling catch the case.A pusher named Gonzo happened to stumble across some valuable information and placed it into the hands of someone who realized its potential - the murderer.
This leads to two more murders including Anibal's prostitute sister who turned him onto drugs in the first place.
Thank you to the publisher, because I can't imagine the series without this character.
Okay, this was written in 1956, so we'll forgive the all white police force with subtly racist attitudes toward Puerto Ricans, because that probably describes cops and white crime writers in 1956.
So, if you want to be transported back to 1956, where honest white guys live to protect the good citizens, even the colored ones, those who aren't criminals, the few, and face the dangerous ugliness of the city with a positive attitude, this is the book for you.
Talk to an eighty-year-old working class guy from a formerly all white town and they can probably relate to these people.
Much too standard a plot especially given that McBain's Precinct novels are on the light side.CHARACTERS = 3: Steve Carelli takes a death shot.
"Cut Me In" - 1954 - 3.6"Cop Hater" (87th Precinct #1) - 1956 - 3.2"The Mugger" (87th Precinct #2) - 1956 - 2.0"The Pusher" (87th Precint #3) - 1956 - 2.0Ed McBain author average = 2.70 Okay, I'll give this 87th series one more try, as I know the publishers made demands on McBain that the author didn't like in these early publications.
This book was written in the 1970S——before DNA testing and all the technology we now have——-Winter came in like a bomb ,wild-eyed,shrieking,puffing hard,it cought the City in cold,froze the marrow and froze the heart.
Detective Steve Carella hits the streets looking for a punk,looking for a pusher by the name of GONZO,it’s a slow process digging up evidence and following the clues, the race is not to the swift,however time and chance happens to them all——occasionally.This is the third book in the 87th precinct and keep getting better!
I love this series and I went back at the beginning and started at book number #1 it was decent and that of course is cop hater than book #2 the mugger that was a better book and now book#3 the pusher and I hadn't read this book in over 20 years!
I really loved it and him writing about withdrawal.
And dealing with that when your kid is stuck on it was just heartbreaking anyways.
A must read in case you start at the beginning and not care for those than read this one you will love it!
Guarantee it!
2.5/5Pleasantly surprised by author's style of writing: deep, reflective, and substantial. Not your ordinary police-criminal story per se.Wasn't as engaged as I'd have liked to be; the plot was alright, but when interlaced with contemplative musings, the core contents—the story itself—gets a wee bit lost.Upon completing the book, I find that I remember (and enjoy!) the ruminations by the characters more than the criminal mystery/thrill the author was trying to weave in.Still makes for a pleasant and quick read though.
Although dated now , the 87th series were a staple of my reading some 30 years ago and I was surprised that I had never read this one. It’s a good solid cop novel with everything a police procedural needs - a crime , diligent policeman , a little science , solid police work and a little good luck and bad luck. The location oozes atmosphere of an east coast US city not unlike 1950s / 1960s New York . Plus it’s a short read and one I needed to get that Goodreads challenge completed .
The third book in the 87th Precinct series is as good as the first two. The series is set in an imaginary city called Isola. I really like Ed McBain having a team of detectives in the book, each with different characters. It is also interesting to read how he describes forensic technologies and police procedures back in the 1950s, when the book was written.
Another solid 87th precinct bookAs with the previous 87th precinct books, McBain tells a great story with interesting characters and a great plot. McBain's dialogue is excellent as always.
A good story, plenty to keep me interested, when read years ago.
another well written story about the 87th precinct
