https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/272599.The_Family_Nobody_Wanted
In the 1940s the Doss family adopted 12 children, 11 of whom were unwanted and languishing in orphanages because of their racial makeup.
By the time this 2-year-old turned 3 the family had adopted three other children, all under 3.
By the time the same child turned four the family had adopted three more children, one of whom was a newborn, and had also provided long-term foster care to a troubled Japanese boy who had watched most of his family die in an internment camp.Who thought it was a good idea to keep giving this woman children???
I happened upon a YouTube video recently, of this couple on Groucho Marx's  You Bet Your Life  and I was intrigued by the woman, Helen Doss, the author of this book.
She and her husband were on Marx's show and when they were asked how old their children were, she hesitated a moment, b/c she had 12 children, all adopted and many were the same ages.
I looked her up then, and saw she'd written a book about their experience adopting.
This was a fascinating read, not just b/c of her unique experience of adopting so many kids, but b/c of her down home style of writing.
After years of waiting, Carl and Helen finally are able to adopt Donny, the child they've been waiting for, but when they attempt to add on to their family later, they discover that there are many children considered "unadoptable" because of their race.Carl and Helen soon realize that their best chances of adding to their family are by taking in some of these children that "nobody wants" and so begins an amazing story of a couple who eventually adopted a total of 12 children, all but Donny and Suzie being of mixed or "undesirable" race.::: The Original Super-Mom :::While the premise of The Family Nobody Wanted sounds like something you'd find in just about any issue of People magazine, adopting multi-racial children wasn't accepted as it is now in an age where foreign adoptions seem almost more commonplace than domestic adoptions.
I requested this book be brought up from storage in our library, because I had just read a play based on the book, in consideration for our theater company's next season.
The charming play is loosely based on the family, but the book is a memoir written by the mother.
The children are all multi-ethnic, and agencies can't find a family from either culture to want them.
Ultimately, over the course of ten years, the Doss family adopts 12 of these children.
After reading about Helen Doss' daily care for this huge family, I vowed to never complain about caring for one active two-year-old again!!
- there are children in every state labeled unadoptable by agencies because of their race, their medical condition or their age, even as couples like the Dosses are desperately waiting for a child to adopt.
(Of course, there are still children that fall into these categories, and they are still difficult to place, but at least now parents are free to choose - what the Dosses helped break down were the official barriers put up by the very agencies that were supposed to help these children but instead stood in their way.)One by one, the Dosses eventually adopt a dozen children - a little girl with a dangerous-looking birthmark, a pair of sisters who don't want to be separated, a few older children, and many children of mixed race who don't "fit" anywhere else.What makes this book so great is that the Dosses are a real family and the book is full of stories about their everyday life.
It's been likened to "Little Women" and I can definitely see that - although I personally liked this one much more.This is a book that I would love to use as a read-aloud someday with my own future children.On the adoption side of things, I loved that the Doss' didn't follow the currently-popular model of "not disrupting birth order".
Although not disrupting birth order may work for some, I feel that love trumps age, and this memoir proves it.Here's an excerpt that I feel humorously sums up adopting vs birthing (from chapter 18):" ...I overheard Teddy and our girls talking to one of their young cousins.
It's difficult for me to imagine that the "mixed blood" children (in her case White, Chinese, Japanese, Filipino, Korean, Mexican, Native American) were so undesirable to families of that time period.I was so glad that I read the new 2001 edition of Helen Doss's memoir (originally published in 1954), as it included an Epilogue by the author providing an update on all her family.
I wish she would have included more photos of the family in her book.The stories of Doss family life were filled with challenges, but the author focuses on the joy and the fulfillment these children provided to her, her minister husband, and to the children.The Doss family inspired magazine articles and TV appearances/shows.
This was a quick read! Pleasant and enjoyable, and quite interesting to see how this one family faced the prejudices of their time in a practical, matter-of-fact way, and how they came to that reality. It also made me realize the extent to which the housewife's life was governed by day-to-day chores, especially with children and without the benefit of modern conveniences like appliances and disposable diapers. It made me wonder where all my time goes, and inspired me to find more of it. An added bonus to reading this book.
I found this book to be a quick and entertaining read. While the writing may not be earth-shattering, it flowed well and kept my attention easily. I thought the information about adopting racially different children in the fifties was fascinating. However, this book was more of a skimming of Helen Doss's journey in adopting 12 children. I think I would have peferred a more in depth look at her trials, heartbreak, and struggles.
The author narrates her experience of gradually adopting a dozen children. A poor pastor's wife, she at first intends to adopt only one or two babies, but as she learns about the plight of mixed-race orphans, who had little chance of finding homes, she adopts one after another, of various ages and backgrounds. Doss' voice is personal and upbeat, without becoming overly sentimental or idealized.
I love this book. I reread it every year. It's one of those feel good books that reminds you there are amazing people in the world. I was introduced to this book as kid and I still love it as an adult.
Wonderful, inspiring read. I read this book in 6th grade. Reinforced my desire to be a mother and raise a family, whether they were my own or adopted.
I've read this about 50 times. I still love it! The true story of a family who adopts twelve children. It's out of print now, by I have a copy.
She was 97.Reed's story was the inspiration of her best-selling novel, "The Family Nobody Wanted." Published in the 1950s, the book talked about Reed and her then-husband Carl's large family, how they came to adopt their first child and their everyday routine.The family would later share their story on a number of television programs, and the Dosses' work would become the inspiration for many looking to adopt outside of their own race, her family said.Reed was born Helen Louise Grigsby on Aug. 9, 1915, in Sanderstead, Surrey, England, but was raised in Illinois, where she met Carl Doss.
(They were mostly my great-Uncle Lonnie's books from his childhood, I later found out.) Reading it was exactly like stepping back in time to when my great-grandparents were beginning their family, and I loved that look back at the time period.This book details Helen Doss' journey to adopting a dozen children, the majority of whom came from minority backgrounds, all while living on the meager salary her Methodist preacher husband received.
Helen Doss tells the story of the adventure begun by herself & her Methodist minister husband Carl when they started adopting children.
Originally their intent was to find "a boy the same size as me" for their first son, Donny who wanted a brother.
Eight more children were adopted and still Donny, age seven, didn't have a sibling his age.
Thankfully, this new printing includes a 2001 epilogue by Helen Doss in which she details the lives of each child as an adult.
I found myself so caught up with the various children and it was so satisfying to read at the end of how their lives turned out.
I have read this book many, many times and I always come away touched and uplifted.
They are truly Christ-like in their fundamental capability to be "no respecter of persons." I aspire to be as accepting of humanity as they have been.UPDATED:I recently re-read this book before giving a review of it at church.
I really wanted to see the Life photos of the family so I spent some time with Google searching for them.
I also found out that Carl and Helen Doss divorced in 1964.
It's easy to start rethinking the stories and seeing Helen and Carl in a different light based on how their lives turned out.
It was fun and interesting to read about how a family copes with adding more children to their family through adoption, especially since it was in the 40s and 50s that they were adopting.
All the children but the first were multiracial or other wise "not wanted" The little stories were entertaining.
I think I would have given it four stars except after about six kids it started to be a bit repetitions.
It was heart-warming to read that someone paved the way for the next generations of multiracial families that would form in the next decades up to the present.
I first read this book years ago as a teenager and probably a pre-teen.
I thought that the book took place in the 50's but it was written in the 50's and actually begins before WWII and goes through the war years and beyond.
It was amazing to read in the book how happy they were when he was making $2,500 a year instead of $900 a year.
And raising a family.
Anyone who has an interest in adoption or foster care will probably love this book and love the family it is about.
I was mostly interested in the adoption legal procedures and protocols. Ex. The humongous amount of red tape involved in trying to adopt a half-negro child from Germany. There are also nice lessons to help children understand racial bigotry. The woman was the original Angelina Jolie, but this one adopted 12! I get cynical when she, realizing she should have stopped at nine, goes away to college and leaves them all with her husband!
Such a wonderful heartwarming book that I've read it over and over again through the years. It's the story of a young couple who ended up adopting 12 children of all different races and nationalities even though in their day it was unheard of. It's a book filled with love of children and family, and many of the stories of the children are humorous as well. Every time I read this book it helps restore some of my faith in humanity.
- They shared their home with some of the neediest children of their time. An interesting story of large family logistics. She comes across as a bit domineering and I do not believe it was right for her to preach even in a pinch. The Gospel is not mentioned, which I found a bit odd because this was written by a ministers wife. God created, loves, and died for all people no matter their skin color or national origin.
This book is a delightful story of a family that was unable to have children biologically and how God provided 12 children, of all shapes, sizes and colors to joint their family before and after WW2. It speaks of the joys, trials etc. of being a poor family in that time. I especially liked the story when they were in school and how they collected dandelion greens for vegetables and ate canned rattlesnake meat as they had nothing else. This is a wonderful story!
I read this book in sixth grade, ordered it from a school book order. It touched me deeply. Strangely, the book was a comfort to me, I read it the year after my mother passed away. I devoured every page, I loved every child she raised and adopted, and when I was through I was determined to be just like her and have and/or adopt 12 children of my own someday. It didn't turn out that way, but I am pleased with the way it did turn out.
I first read this back in 2nd or 3rd grade - certainly before 1963. And I recently re-read it after I saw a clip of Carl and Helen Doss on an old Groucho Marx show. It simply a very well-written, smooth book, the story of a couple who wanted kids but could not physically bear them. They ended up adopting unwanted kids - 12 of them.The story is bathed in love and compassion and order. The kids thrived on being loved, loved by their parents, loved by each other.
The true story of a couple with true Christian values and a love of children adopt mixed-race children, taking the children nobody would take in the 1940s and 1950s. They loved their family and struggled to make ends meet on a preacher's salary, living in cramped housing provided by the churches they served.
I really love this book. I read it years ago - I mean years ago, when I was young - I mean really young, like in grade school - and loved it. Surely a long lost track of book from one's youth is a lovely thing to rediscover. Today, with interracial adoptions and overseas adoptions far more common place, it is good to look back and see that we really have made strides.
I read this as a young teenager and LOVED it! I highly recommend it to any English teacher who wants a touching account of how cultures mix and meld. It also paints a picture of poverty that is easy for younger readers to understand but very hard to forget.
I wish this would be mandatory reading for elementary school children. It covers so much of who we are as a nation and as a "world family". In many ways it is just as current & pertinent today as it was decades ago.
I'm 45, and I read this book when I was in 4th grade. I read it so many times I probably could have recited it word for word- absolutely my favorite book for many years. I didn't know it had been recently released, and I plan to purchase this for my own children.
