https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2315892.Best_Served_Cold
Unlike The First Law trilogy, there aren’t a lot of twists and turns to be found here, it’s very linear and direct, but as always, Abercrombie handled his book with brilliance by giving more focus on the characters and actions rather than the simple plot, making this an incredible tale full of not only vengeance and gore but also humor and redemption.Picture: Monza vs Ganmark (Interior Art from Best Served Cold Subterranean Press edition)Characterization has always been one of Abercrombie’s greatest strength, and this book proved it even more.
I'm gonna have to do it. I'm going to give a Joe Abercrombie book a 3 star. Calm down. I almost gave it a 2. As to why? The good first. The characters. Monza is completely bad ass, but I never felt that connection with her. She wants revenge for her brothers death, I get that..but give me some anger..give me some emotions..give me something! Her band of misfits, you have a drunk, a torturer, a master poisoner and his assistant (who eats constantly), a killer who has OCD, and a man from the North
Her band of misfits, you have a drunk, a torturer, a master poisoner and his assistant (who eats constantly), a killer who has OCD, and a man from the North that just wants to be a better man.So why was this not the most awesome book ever?There was humor..and Abercrombie can be very funny when he chooses too.
I like the violence!!But then the bad comes in:Frigging politics.
*shudders*I'm not done with Abercrombie's writing and this one is no where near as bad as most of the books I subject myself too.
Well anyway I was about fifteen pages in and was thinking, “this book seems unusually slow” then the blood started spraying in the usual Abercrombie style about half a paragraph later.
The Snake of Talins, the self-made mercenary with no regret, is at the height of her power.
Now she must creep out of the gutter and reap revenge on those that took what was most important from her: her brother.
Who loves a tale of revenge?
As per usual in this world everybody has their own secret motives and agendas.
Set in the same world as the great First Law trilogy, the back drop is the region of Styria.
CharactersWhat makes Abercrombie stand out in today’s jam packed fantasy scene, is his ability to write fantastic characters.
More important than simply creating great characters in his works, Abercrombie also has a nack for building on their individual stories throughout, making sure the characters change and learn things (or not sometimes).
He rated it forty-one out of fifty.death so close she could feel it tickling at her neck.‘My name is Nicomo Cosca, famed soldier of fortune and I am here for dinner.’ To the starving man, bread is beautiful.
Cosca to the rescue!Now the review:Continuation after First Law Trilogy, telling about epic bloody revenge story.
Compared with the trilogy, this novel has significantly lower magical content.
As expected with only one-novel-length, I felt the pace of this book is faster and simpler plots than the trilogy.
Cosca maybe shine the brightest on this novel, but I like other not-so-sane characters too, like Day or Friendly (view spoiler)[I recommend to read the spoiler after you read the book (view spoiler)[ and there is the most feared super bad ass assassin SHENKT with the important plot twist.
And that means revenge.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
She also happens to have enough means to make her goal a reality.After I read the first trilogy of the series I was ready to proclaim Joe Abercrombie to be one of the best modern fantasy writers.
There was an excellent character named Glokta in the original trilogy; we now have him named Monza.
She is crippled - just like Glokta, she has exactly the same physical pains, her mood is the same, and so on.The book tells the tale of revenge.
Abercrombie is a good writer so the quality of writing alone warrants 3.5 stars for the book.
AKA "Abercrombie and the Ultimate Anti-Heroes." Here's the short review: reading Best Served Cold is like being a guest judge on 'Iron Chef America: Sardines.' Sure, there's some incredible stuff happening--but still...
The writing, the world, the character description, the brilliant way Abercrombie links and weaves so many plots together, both large and small, and the tension he is able to build through the story even when the general outline is known ("seven deaths").
Abercrombie writes that part of his personal challenge with this book was writing a lead female character, and perhaps because of Glokta, I just feel like he didn't quite succeed.
its characters may be cold-blooded but Abercrombie serves his adventure yarn quite hot.the author is well-known for his bleak world view and this novel is certainly more of the same.
humor is the MVP in Best Served Cold (and after that would come Abercrombie's skill at writing cinematic action sequences).unfortunately, there is a Least Valuable Player present and it is that incredibly aggravating flaw that seems to be prevalent across so much of modern fantasy and science fiction: REPETITION.
happily, Abercrombie shares my point of view - and only the most superficial read of his books would enable a person to come away thinking that the author writes everyone as a villain.
It was good but it wasn't great like the trilogy. The character interactions were what made the book. The plot was lacking and his writing style has never been smooth. It entertaining from an action point of view and you don't have to wait for it. From the prologue on it's battle, guts and assassinations. A killing smorgasbord.
I love these books especially listening to them on audio.
The narrator is just excellent and there is a little soundtrack with slashing swords which really sets the scene.
If you do not enjoy gritty then you will not like his books.
Oh and the sex scenes are so far the other side of romantic.So why do I like it so much?
Because all of his characters are so well drawn, his writing is beautifully done, the story is smart, well paced and exciting and the world building is.....
I still miss my favourite character, Glokta, but noticed several references to him in this book.
I doubt I have the words to explain how good the second half of this book was.
How many times did I marvel at the word play?...and How many times did I hold my breath, scared to turn the pages, scared a character I love might not make it?
With Joe Abercrombie I always expect good characters, this was no different.
Also, I almost forgot how good at writing battles Joe is.
The battles here were amazing, I felt right there in the midst of it.
I feel, so far, this is Joe Abercrombie at his best.
I like this approach to fantasy, but unless you're new to Abercrombie, it's not much of a surprise.
Abercrombie has a new and unusual take on the fantasy genre, and turns the common tropes of fantasy on their head in certain ways.
Unless he finds new ways to do this, though, he's going to create his own standard fantasy formula that can be repeated by nine thousand hack authors who will make it just another kind of stereotypical fantasy: 'Medieval Noir." I'm in a grumpy mood and can apparently not focus on the positive, so let me try again: this book is funny, action packed, full of amusing stereotypes that are sometimes almost real characters.
It just feels like… ;) *leaving Mr. Abercrombie half mutilated from hugs in my mind (It’s love, you know <3 True love hurts)*Once more I was in love with Mr. Abercrombie and his dark fantasy revenge story.Revenge, was served (cold of course) by a rough-tough heroine (already one of my BBHF – Best Book Heroines Forever ) with cold steel and a gripping story for dessert.Monza Murcatto was everything I like about heroines.
Those almost 700 pages of violence, adventure, wit and grittiness kept me hooked and interested all the reading time.
Also I liked other charming characters in this book.
If you are into audio books and have Abercrombie on your "to read" list, then treat yourself to the audio version.
Having said that, there is plenty on offer for those who have read The First Law Trilogy, with references to events and characters from the prior books that go a long way to adding to the background depth and context of the story.Abercrombie’s characterization is second to none.
A lot of violence, even more so than First Law. And I think overall this is a darker and bloodier story than the previous books.
Well, one of my favorite authors does not disappoint, I totally love this guy! So much violence, grit and...fun. I really enjoyed the characters, new worlds and especially liked the glimpses of seconday characters from the other Trilogy popping up in interesting more fleshed out roles.Definitely a great purchase, boy readers rejoice, there's lots of blood and guts flying around!
Joe Abercrombie is my new nemesis. His books are too damn good.
It's unusual for a woman to be a mercenary, let alone a military leader - and she's achieved her place by being twice as ruthless and tough as the hard-bitten men around her.However, tough as she may be, she's not invulnerable.
Clawing her way back from the brink of death, Monza has only one thing on her mind - as the title of the book hints: Revenge.There were seven men present in the room where her brother was killed and she was discarded and presumed dead.
And she'll stop at nothing to achieve her goal.A lot has been made of how 'dark' and 'gritty' Abercrombie's writing is.
One man's villain is another hero; after allIt goes without saying that this read was Epic. It's Abercrombie people. He can do no wrong.
I didn't jump right into reading ”Best Served Cold” after finishing the author's First Law trilogy, and now I can remember why.
Abercrombie's wonderful sense of humour, which might be one of the best I've come across with, and the sharp and witty dialogue balances this out, but only a bit.
So, ”Best Served Cold” starts off as an episodic revenge story, which sets the stage for a war intricately connected to a female mercenary's quest for vengeance.
While the war is much more meaningful and interesting if you've read the First Law trilogy, as you understand the references, the novel works as a stand-alone book.
She acts as a general in the Duke's army, alongside her little brother, Benna.Monza's brother is the only person she has in this world.
His writing, pacing, characters, and dialogue are excellent and beyond compare.Why, then, am I not giving this book a five-star rating?Simply because Abercrombie has created a hopeless, brutal, ravaged world full of despair.
Reading about a world in which everyone is a bad person, no one can trust anyone ever, people betray each other and kill each other for any reason at all - this makes me upset.
Not a world I want to spend 600+ pages in.But the writing and plot is SO GOOD.
Best Served Cold tells the tale of Monza and her quest for revenge.
I know I’m going to get an amazing story, with unique characters told in a way that only Abercrombie is able to pull off.
Before reading Abercrombie I was blissfully unaware of how truly brutal and tragic fantasy as a medium can be.
The heart of Best Served Cold is how Abercrombie strips our “heroes” down to their core and reveals with in them who they truly are.I have a love hate relationship with Abercrombie’s books.
Read this book if you are ready to have your thoughts on fantasy challenged.
6.0 stars. Another unbelievably good book by Joe Abercrombie. If you liked the First Law Series, you will like this. Given that the First Law series is on my list of "All Time Favorites" I think it is safe to assume, I loved this book. In addition to creating a superb story with a tight plot and, as always with his books, unforgettable characters, Abercrombie advances in subtle but very interesting ways the larger story arc of the "great battle" addressed in the First Law series. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!!!
Sa jedne strane imamo starog Aberkrombija, sto ce reci krvave bitke, odlicno napisani likovi, lako citanje.Ali iako je citanje uprkos 700+ stranica bilo brzo, nije mi se previse svidelo.Aberkrombi je izgleda ovde resio da malo "ispegla olovku" i da sve to ne izgleda sirovo kao u Prvom zakonu.
Surovo i brutalno, od pocetka do kraja.Osveta je sasvim blizu Prvom zakonu i da Joe nije malo omeksao ruku i ovo bi bila petica.Ili, da je skratio knjigu za 100-150 stranica.U svakom slucaju, preporuka.“When God means to punish a man He sends him stupid friends and clever enemies.” “A man without discipline is no better than a dog.
Odličan je Aberkrombi! Ni ovoga puta me nije razočarao.
When mighty Duke Orso of Talins does exactly that, he sets in motion a revenge story that takes the reader on a Lonely Planet: Styria adventure with an obsessive-compulsive murderer, a bitter northern warrior, a single mother assassin, an insufferably superior poisoner and the most charmingly duplicitous mercenary commander in the annals of fantasy.
Honestly, except for a supernatural djinn-like "Eater" or two, this hardly reads like fantasy.
Fuckin love this book/audiobook.
Trust me listen to the audiobook and appreciate the sweet, dark, sordid insights of this crews banter plus how great the narrator did the characters.
Mercenary Cosca turned out to be my favorite character towards the end of the book.
He’s a drunk, mercenary, general or soldiers but brilliant.Mercatto, she’s Ferro but more worldly and knowledgeable in many things.
Shiver well he went to Steryia to be a good man, well, he found it at the end lol.
She’s still ruthless.
All in all this story had everything I wanted in a book, no romance or a love triangle.
I am thoroughly and hopelessly addicted to this world. i liked this one even more than The heroes, which may be am uncommon opinion - i just liked these characters more. Shivers was great, and even though I went backwards I really enjoyed this book. longer review to come - and not im onto Red Country
However, after finishing The First Law trilogy he has become like an “old favorite” that I can come back to any time and be sure of a good read.
Best Served Cold is set in the same universe as the excellent First Law trilogy but this is a standalone volume, you don't need to be familiar with his previous books to read it.
So begins her monomaniacal quest for avenge the death of her brother by putting an end to the lives of the seven individuals involved, and anyone else unwise enough to get in her way.As with the other Abercrombie novels that I have read there are plenty of villains but no outright heroes.
this is a revenge story where Monza Murcatto set out to avenge her brother’s murder.
but its the characters themselves in the book that makes it so different from other revenge stories.
I know it is a revenge story but its so much blood, slaughter and fights and at some places it was unbearable to read it for me.
I liked the way Abercrombie tell us about Monza and other characters past through flashbacks.
how they’d struggled in their past and that was what made them what they’re today.I enjoyed reading this with its characters and somewhat minor twists in the end.
A demand for revenge.Though Monza is the key character of ‘Best Served Cold’, her companions proved to be just as pivotal to the plot.
Cosca, Shivers and Vitari are familiar faces for those of you who have read ‘The First Law’, but each is fresh-faced (well…maybe not Shivers by the end of the book *wink*wink*) and ready to go in ‘Best Served Cold’, making for some interesting character developments.Abercrombie, as ever, has a mastery of cinematic writing.
The ‘Revenge’ plot has been done time and time again in fantasy books, but ‘Best Served Cold’ drags the reader kicking and screaming down familiar corridors to an unexpected end.
