https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1127502.How_To_Live_365_Days_A_Year
This book was really old. I loved it. It talks about how to keep from being sick all the time by changing the way you think about life. It discusses how most people in hospital beds have brought it upon themselves by being too anxious or worried. It also talks about the basic needs of people.I found it interesting. Just as a point. As I was reading it my neck and shoulders didn't get tense or hurt because I was practicing what was in the book.
If you want to be happy and have a fulfilling life, you have to grow up physically AND mentally. This book tells you how handle your emotions (before they handle you!) in a sensible way. Schindler teaches you that life can be wonderful if you allow it to be!
An oldie, but still lots of relevant info nonetheless!
Great book. I liked the example of how the sheep were stressed. Though cruel, it's a vivid example of what stressed does and how it acts on the psyche. Amazing that this book was written far before the movement in the US started toward managing stress.
The book is largely psychological, but has some obvious and truthful points about the connection between emotions and illness.
The author laid it out to be easily skimmed, with chapter summaries that, if read alone like I did, give a satisfactory perspective of the meat of the book.
For points that need clarification, I just dove back into the chapter for details, but found the summaries to be sufficient to understand the meta narrative of the book.
It also reviews the entire books thesis in the final chapter.
Worth at least a review for every human concerned about the impact of emotions on health and what you can do about it.
Originally published in the pre-biotech era of the mid-1950s, this book has sold more than a million copies. The author introduces readers to EII or emotionally induced illness, making the connection between negative emotions and physical health long before his peers. The condition, in which an elevated stress level manifests itself in the nervous and endocrine system, results in symptoms that mimic disease.
This book is a must for anyone interested in having a better understanding of life and happiness. It explains many reasons why people get frustrated and have health problems during the course of life. It was a great legacy that my Grandfather left for all of his grandchildren and hopefully they all read such an important book!
Definitely dated material used for story examples, but the overall concept carries through today regarding your emotions and physical health. You can skip to the end of each chapter and read the summaries.
very conservative thinking.
felt good reading it
Recommended to me by Marie TaylorEspecially found helpful his other book, now out of print, A Woman's Guide to Better Living 52 Weeks a Year
Slightly out of date, but full of practical advice. "All you need is common sense" was my Father's favorite admonition. That is what this book is based on.
