https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/859495.Look_Back_in_Anger
Jimmy, I recommend a cold shower and enrolling yourself in Feminism 101.
I think what happened was that after the huge horror of World War Two and the major effort to remake society in Britain (welfare state, National Health Service) there was a kind of national exhaustion, a slumping into armchairs, and those too young to have fought those battles took the exhaustion for complacency and in the early 50s got really fed up about it, and hence the Angry Young Men – Jimmy Porter in Look Back in Anger (first produced in May 1956) was more or less the first of those.
There are certain books in my life I regret reading and if I'm to list them, this play, 'Look Back In Anger', should find its place in the top 5.
As it requires, the protagonist is a tough and very 'intelligent' man, proud of experiencing all the harshness of life while the wife is cottony soft, always offering her never ending sea of love (the formula, remember?) Our protagonist ignores the love of his wife Alison and falls in love with her bestie, Helena, creating to some extent, a tension.
I read the book.
I looked back in disbelief at what I read.
Look Back in Anger is the play that literally changed everything in British theatre.
I'm currently doing a module in uni on British theatre of the 1960s and my lecturer keeps referring to Look Back in Anger.
Not five minutes will go by before she mentions Look Back in Anger and just how important it was.
So I thought to myself, "hmmm, I probably should read Look Back in Anger.So, we have Jimmy, a loud, rude, obnoxious, violent, angry young man.
I'm sort of ambivalent towards the whole play but at least I now have some clue as to what the hell my lecturer is harping on about...
Alison’s parents were tremendously upset with Alison for even thinking of marrying Jimmy and he holds this against her.
He seems to try to hide his feelings of inadequacy for Alison and her family through his cruel words and by making himself out to be the victim in an unfair societal structure.
I think in some ways Look Back in Anger  can be compared to Swift’s A Modest Proposal.
Jimmy’s character in Look Back in Anger is unsympathetic and extremely insensitive to the point where the reader/listener is forced to listen to what he is saying just because of the pure ruthlessness of it.
এর আগেও ত হইছে এরকম, টম সটপারডের রোজেনকরাটজ পড়তে গিয়ে মনে হইছে এই নাটক ত আগেও পড়ছি আমরা, আমি বলতেছি না এরকম মনে হইলে গলপ বা নাটক তার গুরুতব হারায়ে ফেলে আমার কাছে, পালটাপালটি ত লেখাই যায়, এক তরফ কামান দাগলে অনয তরফ হয়ত দাগলো কালি, কিনতু একটা মনের ভেতর খচখচ, তারপর না কইতেই একটা মনের মধযে তুলনাও ত চলে আসে কিছুকষণ বাদে।এই নাটক কিছু দিক থেকে খুবই ভালো লাগছে, পরথমত ঐ সময়ের কিছু বিকট বৈশিষটযের কথা উঠে আসছে খুব সহজে, তাই। এই যেমন, এই যে বরিটিশ সামরাজয খোলনলচে-সহ ভেঙে গেলো, এই পরিসথিতিতে এক ধরনের অকরমা প

بتجسد:صراع الطبقة العاملة مع طبقة الصفوةنقد صريح للكنيسة ف الوقت دهصراع بين طبيعة الشخصيات؛ بين الصريح والكتوم بين العصبى والبارد بين المتعلم والغير متعلم بين المتكبر والمضطهد وهكذا يعنى..
'جيمى' بيمثل الجانب النارى الملول اللى بيدور طول الوقت ع المشاكل عشان يغير الروتين،  بيمثل التسرع والتهور والعجرفة والوقاحة وعنده نوعا ما جنون عظمة!
بيمثل الطبقة العاملة المضطهدة!
هى بتمثل طبقة الصفوة والمسافة الواضحه بينهم وبين الطبقة العاملة!
الكاتب مركز اهتمامة على طبيعة شخصية جيمى وعاوزنا نحس باحساسه ونفهمه، هو زى ما قالت عنه هيلينا.."He was born out of his time." "He doesn't know where he is or where he is going.
Colonel Redfern was a commander of the Maharajah’s army in India and he longs for the old certainties of the Edwardian age.
He longed for the good old days when an Englishman could satisfy his own honor and no questions asked afterwards.”Both A Passage to India and Look Back in Anger (especially the former) convey the sense of anomie that seems to have permeated into the British psyche as their empire which once seemed to be unassailable was now crumbling to pieces.
I was moved by the sense of anomie experienced by the characters in Look Back in Anger which helped me understand the psyche of the British people in the post-imperialistic world.
در بررسی نمایشنامه با خشم به گذشته بنگر بهتر است نگاه و تفکر جان آزبرن در مورد مساله مرد در جامعه و ارتباط های اجتماعی اش بپردازیم، البته از زاویه ای متفاوت با اکثر مخاطبان تئاتر اصلی و منتقدان این اثر.
این نمایشنامه الهامی شد برای ایجاد دو عبارت در زبان انگلیسی که توصیفی از تئاتر بریتانیای بعد از جنگ بودند: عبارت "مردان جوان خشمگین" برای اشاره به گروهی از نویسندگان بریتانیایی در سال های 1950 ایجاد شد که تفکر و تمایل آزبرن برای تقابل با هسته قدرت مدار در جامعه را به اشتراک داشتند.
Solo un po' d'entusiasmo, nient'altro.
Perché non facciamo un gioco?
Sì, facciamo finta di vivere......Il guaio...
il guaio è che ci si abitua alla gente.
Indispensabili......Mi sembra di non aver fatto altro in vita mia che dire addio alla gente......Tutti vogliono sfuggire alla pena di essere vivi.
E soprattutto vogliono sfuggire all'amore.
(Va alla "toilette") Ho sempre saputo che qualcosa del genere sarebbe successo...
(Le porge la roba e apre l'armadio) Ci vogliono muscoli e coraggio.
E se non riesci a sopportare l'idea...
I know that this is an important play in British theater history, and seen within the context of the times, I'm sure it must have seemed pretty radical when it first came out.
Reading it, it feels right in it's own age and context.
Live, it lacks the feeling of connection to the material that one feels when one is confronted with living, breathing truth.Of course, I'm a modern woman and the writer is a man of his times, (even more than some) so the female characters in the play act in ways which could only happen in years past.
I would rather scoop dog poop or watch paint dry than to sit in a theater and watch this play. I do realize this play is to reflect the post war attitude of the younger generation however, total lack of respect for older people especially parents of your wife and no respect for woman does not bode well with me.
Jimmy tries to mimick the upper middle class in many ways, whether it's by reading posh newspapers or by marrying an upper middle class woman.Jimmy likes Webster as a fellow human being,but does not want to support his cause by socially accepting homosexuality.He doesn't believe in the rule book notions of marriage.
But once married, they fail to understand each other or to imbibe these qualities on each other.To understand that fundamentally Jimmy's anger arises from a deep sense of personal loss and loneliness and not the lost cause of abolishment of class distinction I believe is the real deception in the play.
I read it for my English Literature class. I didn't like it that much.
It's also just seems like badly constructed theatre; no action onstage, just this unbelievably wordy inertia with Jimmy just yapping off at the jib while all the other actors have to dig within their souls to find reasons to a.
The scene with the two women talking about who gets to STAY with him?!??!
Fuck OFF, John Osbourne, fuck OOOOOOOOOOOOOOFF.There are so many moments in this play that just seem like watered-down Streetcar, it made me want to put Jimmy in an ultimate fighting ring with Stanley Kowalski.
Think you're a tough guy, Jimmy?
That's some action I actually want to see happen.
I've decided to start reading plays.
I like shortb) they get to the point.
I do quite like that kind of thing, but it can so kill a book, so why bother.Gawd, i'm becoming such a pragmatist, it's awful.ANYWAY, am enjoying this muchly in a stomach churning way.
Well, it's about anger about your childhood, anger about other people's inability to feel or live in a way you endorse, and being trapped.
so much about being trapped, you feel really trapped yourself when you read it.Anyway, am half way through so will report back.
Another literary work that I happened to read in my "Masculinity in Literature & Popular Cultures" coursework.
The background is the post WWII British society in the disposition of "Edwardian Twilight" which represents that the sun of British Imperialism has set.
And the main protagonist Jimmy Porter represents the plight of the young generation of Englishmen in post-imperial world who went to college, got educated but still ended up jobless, angry and distasteful towards upper middle class society as well as their own culture and values.
Indeed one of the best character introductory depictions with firm convincing strokes and provoking & stimulating dialogues.A must read!Yet difficult to love!!
LOOK BACK IN ANGER.
Osborne’s drama is credited with initiating the cycle in British plays known as “the angry young man.” Once you have encountered his main character here, you will understand why.
It is the story of Jimmy Porter (our angry young man) and his wife, Alison.
Jimmy is the kind of man who would normally repel all types of friendship and he goes out of his way to do so.
We never quite work out way into his motivation for such anger, but learn about his through his effects on Alison and his friend, Cliff.
This is a high-tension drama.
From BBC radio 4 - Drama:To celebrate sixty years since John Osborne wrote his classic play, Richard Wilson directs a new radio dramatisation with David Tennant as Jimmy Porter. The play that launched the Angry Young Man movement has lost none of its bite and still disturbs and questions in equal measure.Directed by Richard WilsonProduced by Clive BrillA Brill production for BBC Radio 4.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b078mc9p
Overrated, I'm all for anti-heroes but there is simply nothing interesting about this bitter misanthrope with no compelling reason for his cruelty. Nor is there anything to explain why his wife and her 'best' friend love him so. Passive, one dimensional females who serve as a sounding board for this misogynist - actually why limit the guy, he hates everybody - if you're still interested, by all means help yourself to this one.
Definately one of the best plays i have read in a long time. Jimmy's hatred, inspired by the undeniable class division of 50s England, creates a uniquely relatable character. Despite his grotesquely critical hatred for all that surrounds him, you cant help but feel pity for the cynic, "born out of his time".
2'5 :/
The 3 star rating is mostly my fault, both because I didn't realize this book was actually a play and because I missed quite a lot of historical context. Oh and Jimmy, you're a dick.
Totally love this play! Tennant as Porter would have been brutal!
Living in a postcolonial world, I’ve a deep-seated attraction towards post-colonial novels.
Jimmy Porter is the Angry Young Man, representing the New Age of British Drama that was to sweep through England during the period.
Jimmy is a complex human being, and he’s suffering.
One of the shortcomings of the book is Jimmy gains a central position so much so that the other characters could just be replaced by anyone and the play might have been the same.
She clearly hated him and he was a hateful character, but her falling in love with Jimmy just sounds unrealistic.
Wotta dunce.The funny thing about this play is that, if you take it out of context (and how can I not?) it's, like, 90 minutes of people being awful to each other for no clear reason.
But it was a huge success at the time, so it obviously resonated with its desired audience.I feel like there's something wrong when I can relate more to a 16th century playwright than a 20th century one.
Honestly required reading for university is so dull sometimes. I guess I appreciated parts of it, but again it's not something I would pick up by choice.
Get wrecked, Jimmy. @Osborne if you want me to sympathize with an abusive piece of shit, maybe pick up a copy of Wuthering Heights and learn how to write a complex anti-hero.
Damn university. Way to go Jimmy. You are dead meat , Porter !
Нормальная пьеса. Сюжет мне не очень понравился, хотя там есть неожиданный поворот (по мне, так уж слишком неправдоподобный). Персонажи не очень симпатичные (особенно главный герой, настоящее ничтожество с претензиями ко всему свету), но при этом очень мастерски показанные, что свидетельствует о таланте драматурга!
