https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/330077.The_Maimed
“bisogna amare questo libro con terrore” (Stefan Zweig)Avete presente la celeberrima citazione di Kafka: ”Un libro dev'essere un'ascia. per il mare ghiacciato che è dentro di noi”? Ecco, con I mutilati Hermann Ungar assesta un colpo tale da mandare in frantumi un bel po’ di quel ghiaccio.Qualcuno ha detto che questo romanzo psicologicamente inquietante fa sembrare le opere di Kafka una piacevole passeggiata nel parco. Chiunque fosse, aveva ragione. La Praga magica dei primi anni del Novecento era anche questo.Per chi fosse interessato all'autore, in rete ho trovato questo articolo su Hermann Ungar:https://cafegolem.wordpress.com/2012/...
The kids would dress up as women and they had this great sexless thing going on.
It was a bad day if it was the "Bar fight" episodes.
This thing goes on forever and ever!" I would sit there and watch Bar Fight and wish it would end already because I didn't feel like it could go anywhere.
But it is not the worn in feeling at home but it couldn't go anywhere (or at least would not be afraid to if it was going to go that way).
(My favorite part was the longing that Polzer felt for the childhood kisses from Karl.
Dice Ricardo Menéndez Salmón en el prólogo que el libro debe leerse de una sola vez, como en estado de apnea.
Un protagonista débil y cobarde hasta extremos patéticos que, cuando no consigue la invisibilidad ansiada, es manejado y humillado por todos, en un mundo intrínsecamente perverso y enfermo.
Una vida automanejada como si de un feo y pesado reloj se tratara y en cuya maquinaria se va a introducir un mínimo grano de arena que lo desajustará por completo.
At first I thought Ungar had been to see Tod Browning’s Freaks, and directly plagerised modelled ‘The Maimed’ on it.
Lynch’s Boxing Helena came out in 1993, one big massive nod to Ungar as well.The centrefold here is a Karl, and he has Aspergers.
Both protags are socially inept recluses who fall sexual prey to malevolent fat older women housekeepers.
What is this with the fat evil women?
Or, alternatively, if one hates women (and Karl does,), then maybe on a scale of one to ten where ten is the most hideous prospect, the fat woman scores.
So, this kooky book is about freaks.
Se puede pensar que son avisos que preludian el advenimiento del nazismo, pero son un reflejo de los que se ha convertido nuestra sociedad occidental.
Hay algo de preclaro en todos esos escritores en lengua alemana que han sido más certeros que la mayor parte del pensamiento razonado, filosófico, para mostrar nuestra condición.
o algo así.No, nuestra sociedad no tiene sentido.Esta novela de Unger es una clara influencia para Canetti a la hora de escribir Auto de fe.
Pero creo que su influencia va mucho más allá.
A propósito do que escreveu Thomas Mann sobre esta obra: "Um inferno sexual, pleno de depravação", há uma opinião no Goodreads que diz, mais ou menos, assim: "Se Mann pensava que isto é um inferno sexual, que pensaria ele se tivesse conhecido a minha história, ahahah!". Esta opinião (a do Kobe Bryant, não a de Mann) foi o que mais gostei nesta leitura, ahahah!
Es gibt zahlreiche Elemente aus dem Bereich des Sadismus und Masochismus: Polzer und Fantas Frau Dora, müssen klaglos ziemlich viel physische und psychische Grausamkeiten einstecken, der verkrüppelte, aber intellektuell weit überlegene Karl Fanta und Frau Porges übernehmen dominante Rollen.Ein wenig erinnert der Erstling des Anwalts aus dem Kafka-Umkreis an einen Cocktail aus Dostojewskis Armen Leuten (Polzer), den religiösen Gesprächen aus den Brüdern Karamasow und den Idioten (Sonntags Reflexionen über Jesus und das eigene Erweckungserlebnis bzw.
Ich kann nicht sagen, dass mir die Lektüre wirklich Spaß gemacht hat, Dostojewskis Arme Leute sind auch in Sachen Lesevergnügen die die ideale Vergleichsgröße, aber die Verstümmelten sind ein interessantes literarisches Dokument aus einer Umbruchszeit.
If Mann thought this was a 'sexual hell' then what would he think about my search history haha
Yes, Herr Polzer is a sad soul, desperately trying to live his life the way he wishes.
And where one feels empathy for Polzer, there is nothing to feel but revulsion for the other characters in the story ...
Polzer's entire identity is in turmoil throughout most of the book: his abusive childhood, his own sexual ambiguity, and his religious prejudices and superstitions fill every terror filled thought in his mind.
I like to guess my way through a story.
I don't like to be bludgeoned with character motivations, and Ungar is so subtle in this work, it's terrifying.
This imagery sticks with him and shows up later in the book causing him paralyzing anxiety as he thinks of his landlady, Frau Porges: As soon as the shadow of his aunt fell across the lighted door, Polzer had known that a woman's nakedness was something horrid.
Ungar describes a homosexual relationship between Karl and Franz even from the beginning, "Karl Fanta saw that Polzer was unhappy, and often both boys embraced, kissing each other while they cried." In 1923, this was quite a daring work and when Ungar submitted it to Kafka's publisher at the time, although liking it, thought he would be brought up on obscenity charges if he published it.
Não no sentido de cada personagem ser demasiado perversa, mas porque todas elas são, no fundo, taradas de uma ou outra maneira.
Fanta, amigo de infância de Polzer e a sua paixão secreta, é um mutilado em virtude de uma doença não especificada que, já «pouco homem», se dedica ao voyeurismo e ao «complexo do corno», por meio do qual ora quer ver a sua mulher com outros, ora teme que tal aconteça.
While this is happening Franz must also contend with his oldest friend Karl who is slowly dying of a disease that is wasting away both his body and mind.
Karl suspects his wife of having affairs and planning his murder.The feel of this novel is very unique, but other authors did come to mind.
The paranoid Karl fears that Sonntag is in a conspiracy with various other people and plans to murder him in his sleep.
Karl himself is a cruel character, driven half-mad by his disease, and yet several of his rambling, paranoid or sexually obsessed monologues are quite funny as well.That said, this is certainly a grim, bleak book.
Franz Polzer é um obstinado com a ordem, os seus papéis no banco têm de estar arrumados, faz um inve
Con una escritura intachable nos muestra un conjunto de seres humanos socialmente al límite. Todo un descubrimiento gracias a Offuscatio.
Ungar has successfully taken us into Polzer's distressed world, even more so by the almost flat writing style – which although flat is thoroughly engaging: a feat, given the generally dislikeable characters.
All in all, thoroughly fabulous and totally unsettling.Ungar, a German speaking Moravian, wrote, as far as I know, one other novel, one play, and one collection of short stories – this is the only one in English, so all power to the marvellous Twisted Spoon Press for publishing this (they have one of the finest small press lists there is).
Don't sleep with your landlady.
painful and disturbing
Vidunderlig fornedrelse, underskøn lidelse.
However upon a second read the novelty has worn off and the morbidity becomes more apparent, so his work does appear less objective than I remember, too gothic; Ungar seems at too much of a remove from the character he's created, so that some of his descriptions seem judgmental.
Ungar believed the third-person narrative was the supreme form, or at least preferrable to the first-person narrative, in part because it is more difficult to create, or it was more difficult for him.
Apparently Ungar's first draft was after all written in the first person, and indeed the first-person form was the one he was more comfortable with in general.
Los mutilados, es un relato terrible sobre las perversiones y locuras más mundanas del hombre.Comienza describiéndonos al bueno de Franz Polcer, un empleaducho de banca de hábitos rígidos, obsesionado con el orden y lo correcto.
Es un hombre mutilado psicológicamente por un pasado lleno de traumas.
De su entorno, aparecen el resto de personajes: su casera, el amigo de la infancia y enfermo terminal, su sufrida familia y el enfermero a cargo de sus cuidados, entre otros.
Todos ellos personajes en apariencia normales y correctos que poco a poco se van hundiendo en sus propias miserias y pecados, arrastrándose los unos a los otros.
Full ReviewUngar is not a well remembered author. He was a contemporary of Kafka and is often compared to him. They were both Jewish writers from Prague who wrote dark fiction, but Ungar is quite distinct from Kafka. Ungar finds horror in the every day and in the repressed psyches of the people around him. While his body of work is not large, this book makes it clear that Ungar deserves to be more well-known than he is.
KOBOBOOKS
To have a protagonist who is a man who is basically sexually abused by women throughout his life, with oblique references to latent homosexuality that's more intense than the 'typical european boys in boarding school being really good friends' trope, seems like it must have been really provocative at the time, i mean, it's provacative now, to me, in 2017.It starts out very Kafkaesque (of course), with our protagonist suffering through strange things outside his control, trapped in a system that he can't navigate.
I think the Prague literary scene in Kafka's time was really intense and I'm excited to see what else is there.
É difícil resistir a um livro quando este refere que foi recomendado por Thomas Mann. Com um aliciante duvidoso de ser de um autor que foi banido na Alemanha nazi, é um romance cativante desde as primeiras páginas, evocando rapidamente uma mistura de Gogol e Kafka, com o perfume dos casos psicológicos da atmosfera das crónicas de Freud. Um cocktail de ingredientes magnífico, num enredo divertido e rocambolesco, que pouco a pouco descamba no insólito e no macabro, atingindo pontos de repugnância, não de literatura, que é um primor, mas pela degradação psicológica das personagens, quase sem excepção. Um mimo.
Herman Ungar writes himself into the modernist tradition, with a hit of surrealism, tackling the alienation of ordinarily people in the modern society, through the eyes of an unreliable storyteller, touching the themes of sexual repression, angst and murder. At times messy written and challenging to keep track of, along other things, the dialog. The ending was also a but confusing and absurd, (maybe as intended by the author), but ultimately a fascinating read for everyone who likes Kafka, Hamsun and Dostojevskij.
A dark and depressing book. I didn't enjoy this, but that's not to say the author isn't talented. The main character has paranoia and neurosis and was not nurtured in the least growing up. As such, he is unsuccessful in his dealings with everyone, from his workplace to his landlady. He doesn't know how to stand up to people, so they walk all over him. I'm pretty sure the attendant killed the landlady, but he doesn't defend himself because he doesn't know how to act with other HUmans.
A história de Polzer, o torturado funcionário bancário que se vê ansiosamente enrolado nos usos e costumes da sociedade, começou por ser interessante, engraçada e até viciante. Mas acabou numa grande confusão de misticismo cristão e existencialismo, que sinceramente não percebi, nem me interessou perceber.
Se publicó en 1923, hace casi cien años. Y es mejor que la mayoría de las cosas que se publican ahora, libros que siguen repitiendo tópicos gastados.
Lovely little book. Dark, disturbing, sad, and filled with anxiety.
Franz Polzer faz-me lembrar aquele empregado pacato da conservatória do registo civil, de vida monótona que encontramos no livro "Todos os nomes" de José Saramago.
Também ele de repente vê transformada a sua vida simples num intenso rol de problemas.Mas Polzer bem que também podia ser o personagem principal de um livro de Gonçalo M.
Este livro sombrio, de gente estranha, infeliz e maldosa, tem de facto muito de Freud pelo meio.
Seria pois escândalo para a altura, mas já não tanto para os dias de hoje, não só pelo teor sexual, mas também pela visão que faz do cristianismo (sobretudo do conceito de expiação).
