https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1103594.The_Aunt_s_Story
Είναι ο πατέρας, ερωτευμένος με την ομηρική ελλάδα και τους ήρωές της (εξαιτίας της γυναίκας του δεν θα πατήσει ποτέ στην Ιθάκη που τόσο συχνά ονειρευόταν) και η μικρή ανιψιά, η Λου η οποία γίνεται η αφορμή για να ξετυλιχθεί το πρώτο μέρος της ιστορίας, πίσω, στο παρελθόν, σε ένα κτήμα που ο συγγραφέας ονομάζει Meroë.
Να σημειώσω πως ο White, ο οποίος είναι Αυστραλός και έχει βραβευτεί με βραβείο Νόμπελ Λογοτεχνίας στα 1973, έτρεφε μεγάλο ενδιαφέρον για την Ελλάδα, άλλωστε ο σύντροφος της ζωής του ήταν Έλληνας (Μανόλης Λάσκαρης) και συχνά επισκέπτονταν τη χώρα μας και πολλές από της εμπειρίες του τις περιγράφει σε ένα άλλο, αυτοβιογραφικό, έργο του (που θέλω να διαβάσω οπωσδήποτε) με τίτλο “Flaws in the Glass”.
When I first tried to read Patrick White at the age of 19 I simply could not relate - to the language, the precision of the writing and most of all the concepts explored.
Now at the age of 38 I have ventured back by reading this book.
What I found interesting was what she felt as a younger woman, the feeling of not fitting in, the deep set inner knowledge that she would always be 'the aunt'.
(He tells the story that White used to go round libraries in Sydney, looking at how far people had made it through the book--inevitably they stalled in the second section, which is where things get strange).
The story of Theodora Goodman, spinster, sensitive, difficult, and self-aware soul, as she remembers her childhood and early adulthood in Australia and then travels to France and, finally, America in search of ways to become more in tune with the world, this book is one of the most compelling portraits of madness I know.
I've never read a Patrick White novel that I liked after the first read.
I originally gave this book two stars, totally disappointed: I couldn't believe I'd just read something by Patrick White..
As in all the White I've read, only with a return to the book did the real beauty of the composition come to the fore.
Patrick White is a challenging writer because the reader must be deeply focused on what he or she is reading.
You can't just pick up a White novel and let the story take you.
The beauty of White is in the style, not the narrative itself.
what did I just read? I actually don't understand what happened to her, did she die? did she go mad? did she even exist? what the fuck.
Abandon ship, before you sinkTheodora Goodman grows up in the Australian bush, on a station (American=ranch), but her dad's heart isn't in it, her mum is hard-hearted and condescending to Theodora, whose sister is pretty and "normal".
The language, the images, the weaving of description and growing up.But then when mum dies, Theodora goes to Europe and winds up in a kind of Heartbreak Hotel of the 1930s, except she ain't no broken hearted lover.
The conversations may be read in different ways, but I could not, for the life of me, settle on one interpretation.
H. Lawrence had collaborated on a miniature Magic Mountain*, then given it an Australian bildungsroman opening section for no very obvious reason.
Despite which, I'm really looking forward to re-reading this.
White does things with words that are literally (in the literal, figurative, literal sense of literal) incredible, and the second section, in which our heroine and/or one of her friends goes insane, is a masterpiece.
The opening section, which describes aunt Theodora's childhood, is also a bit cliched: the 'different' young girl has trouble fitting in and so on.
*: does anyone else think Patrick White looked an awful lot like Thomas Mann?
I really loved this book but it's not a one-read book.
It will take another read in a few years for me to understand it all.
The thing I loved most is how White drops little bombs of diamonds along the way.
But he would throw me a little hook baited with something sweet every so often to peek my interest again.
I look forward to reading more of his books.
He feels like that old grouchy uncle that you just can't help but love.
I don't think I can rate this at the moment. It was hard to follow and understand, and only some parts of what was being told to me were made clear. Part 1 caught my attention, while Part 2 lost it completely and Part 3 drew me back in somewhat.I'll appreciate it more when I know more, but as a reader the style was simply not enjoyable for me.
Our first book club selection. None of us made it through.
I couldn't finish it.
Pretentious. Boring. I'll never get that time back.
"But on a morning the colour of zinc old Mrs Goodman died."Patrick White's novel The Eye of the Storm which I read over 40 years ago is one of the books I love the most, one that touched me in the strongest way possible and made me realize that great literature is the apex of all arts, encompassing both beauty and truth.
Distance trumpeted with corn." (After the five-star rating I include three other fragments of Patrick White's breathtaking prose.) The novel is exactly 70 years old yet it does not feel dated at all.
the aunt's story rejects any holistic understanding, if one comes at it searching for one the book will fall apart.
whitman says:"Do I contradict myself?Very well then I contradict myself,(I am large, I contain multitudes.)"it is very hard to write about patrick white, especially the aunt's story.
he is a novelist who claims he is "hobbled by words," this is not a claim he makes out of perversity.i do believe there is truth in the aunt's story.
the moments when we do touch it, as theodora does several times, we are unable to rationally understand it.
Patrick White's The Aunt's Story is one of the most beautiful books I've ever read, but it's also - without a doubt - one of the most pretentious books I've ever read.
If you do decide to start reading this book though, there are some things you should keep in mind:- White was highly influenced by Modernists like Virginia Woolf (you should probably read To the Lighthouse before tackling The Aunt's Story.
I hated it.
A perfect example of someone writing complete nonsense, then trying to pass it off as symbolic, meaningful and groundbreaking.
None of his artistic choices were justifiable.
It was a mess just because it could be.
I have no idea why they gave this guy a Nobel Prize for literature, he'd have been better off with a knock about the head.
His writing is senseless and obnoxious.
Having to finish it was like wading through a swamp, his style was so dense.
I even had to get google translate out because half of it was is goddamn french, and for no good reason, either.
A complete waste of time.
It would be easy to say that this was about a daughter who lives in the shadow of her pretty sister, ends up looking after their mother until the latter dies, then travels to Europe from Australia, and after that goes to America, but that would only touch on what this book is about. Patrick White is an amazing writer, sometimes I haven't a clue what's going on, but I love his books.
2.5 STARSIt started off a lot more strongly than other books I've read this semester, but that second passage of text did me in. So confusing. I don't understand guys.
KILL ME HOLY SHIT. I had to play "you're the best around" song after it took me a week to finish it. Again, this is another book where you have to be smart & have no life to read it
Puzzling, magnificent, dull at times, incomprehensible... I'm not sure what to make of this book.
The first part was interesting, however i was lost as soon as Theodora left for Europe. Definitely need some clarifying on the last two thirds of the novel.
The language is beautiful, and some of the themes covered are intriguing because I've never read about these topics from such a nuanced perspective.
The fragmentation of character, plot, story, and setting from Part 2 onwards is too confusing for me.
Theodora is a very complex character of many sides - enough for readers to find some aspect of her to empathise with.
While Part 2 is confusing, this is all part of the author's careful setting up of theme and meaning.
I recommend this book to readers who enjoy literary works, and who are reasonably familiar with either White's works, or are accustomed to (modern) classics.I rate this book 7/10.
I must confess to falling slightly in love with this intricate, weird and wonderful prose.
Of course the entire middle section, Jardin Exotique, is a big interpretive question.
Does Theodora Goodman achieve some transcendental understanding of the world around her, or does she succumb to schizophrenia after travelling around alone?
The thing is, it doesn't really matter.
It is the kind of novel that one reads slowly, in a kind of suspension, and only afterward letting out a held breath.I read this novel for a research project I'm doing on Patrick White; I will read two others this semester.
Born in the late 1800s, the daughter of a rich glazier rejects the strict behavioural requirements of upper class society to the point of madness. She has the strength to think differently, but her strength to behave differently can't match the increased grip of society's expectations after childhood.In her madness, she wanders off the tourist trail into rural America and catches a glimpse of a lifestyle that could save her, but is dragged back by society. Perhaps wealth is as difficult to escape as poverty.If you're finding this book a grind, rather than quitting, try skimming or skipping part 2.
White's relentless modernism will delight some and inspire tedium in others. I wafted between both whilst reading The Aunt's Story. Fair bit more tedium than delight though. White's style certainly matured between this and the superior Voss.Riders in the Chariot looks like fun. I'll try that next.
All things spring from boredom, said Sokolnikov."You are an odious and repulsive glutton." There was a gingerbread heart on which Theodora read: Ich liebe dich - in dust or sugarI think I am right in saying of love that the most one can expect is the logical conclusionNot that one does not continue to hope.
She would not ask much, but she would tell.Theodora remembered how at the time she had been infused with a warmth of love that was most thinly separated from expectation of sorrow.They are very thinly divided indeed.
For a short review in Dutch, see the summer challenge 2017 of the Netherlands & Flanders group.
Bit difficult to get into, but worth the effort.
"and a prune shape"
The slow fall of madness
