https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/158420.Alcoholics_Anonymous
Think you're different?
Think you can handle it?
When's the last time you told yourself, "This week I'm only drinking on Friday", and then you drank three more times plus Friday?
Ever had a family member, brilliant, bright, and loving who just couldn't "control" their drinking?
Ever wondered how you drank that much - and lived?.
Have you ever thought, "I still have a job, I have a family, I have my house, I pay my bills.
Sure, I drink, but how could I be an alcoholic?".
Ever wonder if there was a way out?
I really struggled with how to rate the "Big Book." I've been sober for over 9 years now, and I stopped being a semi-regular AA probably 5 years ago.
I never officially did all the Steps, and I'm pretty sure I've never even read the ENTIRE Big Book.) BUT, after I had been sober for 9 months on my own and went to my first meeting out of just a desperation to be around SOMEONE who might understand all the emotions I was going through, it meant so much to be able to share my sobriety and my struggles with other sober and struggling people.
In fact, I know now that AA is no better at getting and keeping people sober than just quitting cold-turkey or any other recovery program.
Good news for those with a 'Little Red Book' or other guide/index to the Big Book.For those unfamiliar with the Big Book, it's the instruction set for the AA program.
The wording is a little dated, but it is the instruction set for the most widespread self-help program in the world.
Those with an open mind can work the AA program without a belief in the Christian or any 'God'.While most chapters are devoted exclusively to the alcoholic, there are chapters to the family & employer of the alcoholic, as well.
Anyone who knows an alcoholic or anyone who suffers from an addiction, would do well to read this book.
Unfortunately, instead of learning how to get happy, people give themselves permission to live drunk, which isn't living at all.If you think that you could live a happier life, read this book, I promise it will leave you with a greater understanding of yourself and what you need to do to resolve your issues and to have self-respect, serenity, peace, happiness, and joy.
I personally feel much more humble yet powerful, peaceful yet productive, happy yet thoughtful and most of all in touch with myself and who I am, who God wants me to be, and how He is going to help me get there.I decided shortly into the book that in my review, I would just share the bits that I loved.
One of the great spiritual works produced by humanity, and a book that has probably saved more lives than any other ever written. This is the owner's manual for the most effective system for overcoming addictions and achieving peace of mind that has yet been found. The authors make it clear that they are not saying or implying that they have the only thing that works, and encourage the reader to do whatever works, including working with professional treatment providers; this is a good adjunct to treatment, not an either-or alternative.
An incredible insight into people, addiction and those affected by alcoholism.A good read for alcoholics or friends and family members of alcoholics.Wonder if you have a drinking problem? This book will help you.Know you have a drinking problem? Read this book.
Terribly sexist, and not spiritually inclusive.(a lot of words are just plain crossed out or edited in my copy) The revolution is not so much in this book as it's in the network of people who've read this book and then lived funner, happier, sexier lives than before.
I love the look of this book -- a compact blue paperback that might be mistaken for a Bible, and is to many people.
The cover is blank -- that is, until you hold the book up to a light and see its title, Alcoholics Anonymous.
The title is concealed, anonymous.
Makes sense for obvious reasons.What I found most interesting is the program's idea of a Higher Power.
Or so The Big Book says...Written on the title page of my used copy is: "To Virginia, Christmas 1986.
Nite morning."It would be interesting -- and moving -- to collect copies of The Big Book just to read the marginalia.
This book has had a positive impact on my life. Originally published in 1939, the "essential recovery text" has an outdated tonal feel. This is especially apparent in the chapter "To Wives". The chapter is written from a very sexist perspective and doesn't translate well to today. Despite its untimely feel, the original text in the "Big Book" still succeeds in paving a path of recovery from the disease of alcoholism.
I have read this book and will continue reading this book over and over for the rest of my life. This book holds the tools to live a great life
But they often suspect they are down for the count.At a certain point in the drinking of every alcoholic, he passes into a state where the most powerful desire to stop drinking is of absolutely no avail.
The fact is that most alcoholics, for reasons yet obscure, have lost the power of choice in drink.
I really struggled with how to rate the "Big Book." I've been sober for over 9 years now, and I stopped being a semi-regular AA probably 5 years ago.
I never officially did all the Steps, and I'm pretty sure I've never even read the ENTIRE Big Book.) BUT, after I had been sober for 9 months on my own and went to my first meeting out of just a desperation to be around SOMEONE who might understand all the emotions I was going through, it meant so much to be able to share my sobriety and my struggles with other sober and struggling people.
In fact, I know now that AA is no better at getting and keeping people sober than just quitting cold-turkey or any other recovery program.
Let me be clear: I know this book has helped lots of people and I don't want to discount that.
I'm leery of giving it 2 stars in the off chance that someone who needs help might see a two star review and write it off, when it might indeed be able to help them.
This book, though, need only concern itself with this particular solution, and I think only you can decide if it's the right course of action for you.
I think there are ways that it could be updated to make it stronger, more credible, more inclusive.
It took ten and a half years for me to truly appreciate the spiritually inspired life lessons contained in the first 164 pages.
This book is far less about "How to stop drinking or doing drugs" than it is about how to live a life that is full, satisfying, and full of hope.
There is historical data and research that proves that the only way to rid oneself of his alcoholism is to adopt spiritual inspiration and run with it.
I owe my life to all those involved in keeping this book around and living.
After asking a lot of questions about the twelve-step program, one of the therapists (brilliant guy, lived as a homeless man for two years before getting sober) gave me the "Big Book." I was vaguely familiar with the twelve steps like admitting you have a problem, making amends, etc., but I had no idea that the AA book is mostly a how to guide for a spiritual transformation.
A transformation that will also get you sober.
Interesting insight into the nature of the "disease." I know this isn't the only model for recovery, but this is the one that has worked best, and I was surprised to find out how it works.
Working in the mental healthcare field as well as my personal acquaintances I have heard many different views of AA and other 12 Step groups, ranging from the opinion that they are a cult that provided them with zilch to being a spiritual program that was a miracle.
After reading this book and talking with others I know that this book has been able to perform miracles.
I don't know whether it works for everybody, but it has worked for some.
The language used in some of the narratives is downright archaic, and that is a compliment. The power of this book lies in the reader's connection to a desire to change their life. What stands out, is how complete the writing is. For example, "The Chapter to the Agnostic" clearly demonstrates sensitivity and respect to differing lifestyles and religious choice.Many of the stories in the back are hard to identify with at first read, tales of long term prison visit, unspeakable violence and neglect, but the themes- selfishness and a loss of control, speak to the heart of all alcoholics.
I'm not an alcoholic. I've never even been drunk (or the least bit tipsy, for that matter.) However, I found some valuable suggestions for living in the first 164 pages of this book. The remainder of the book contains stories from recovering individuals. I love hearing about people and how they tackle life so I got a lot out of their testimonies. They were easy to relate to and many were not only inspirational but humorous as well. (Doctor, Alcoholic, Addict is my personal favorite chapter.)
Kind of got bored half way through and didn't finish.
This book was a huge part in saving my life!
This is a great work of literature!!! My father was alcoholic. Read it in three days a few months before jumping into the Al-anon program.
I imagine that if Bill Wilson (the primary author of this "anonymous" text) knew what a global sensation his book would have become it would have been far worse than it already is.
While millions have found relief from the ravages of alcoholic compulsion through AA I shutter to think how few have found relief from fundamentalist perspectives or "literalism", a religious perspective that a text book is sacred, word upon "sacred" word.
This book ranks among the worst I have ever read and it is arguably as big as the Bible, go figure.
Not what you think it is. It's kind of like when you ask somebody how do to something and instead of handing you a list of instructions or a diagram, they just take you by the hand and say, "Let me show you." This book shows you what alcoholism is with real people's stories. Turns out Alcoholism isn't what you think it is, and the people around alcoholics aren't either.
The Holiday Season is one day at a time. Gift yourself another day. The Big Book is in season granting chances to achieve NEW never known before. Santa keeps you honest to know your great presence is loved, uncommonly. Every snowman knows his scarecrow standing in him. And the dance they dance is one...day at a time.
Even though I'm not a Alcoholic I have found this book a rewarding experience. I seriously have learned to be a better leader from reading this book. I'm grateful for the recommendation from my Senior Naval Science Instructor.
I'm not a 12-stepper, but the Big Book is a very powerful spiritual read. Must read if you're dealing with alcoholism, either directly or with a loved one.
This is a good book to read on a snowy day...cuddled next to the fire... with a pitcher of martinis and a 357 magnum...
some good ideas, just extremely boring. the whole higher power crap really annoyed me too. find power in yourself, not your imaginary friend.
I'm pretty sure this gets the best ratings from alcoholics themselves and maybe their families as well.
I believe this book was meant to be read by so many people that will never be given a second chance to pick up the book and put down the habit.
