https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5052.Code_to_Zero
Um Mistério FragmentadoTombado ao comprido no chão duma casa de banho pública, Luke não sabe quem é nem como foi ali parar.Dir-se-ia que nascera ali, naquele instante, sobre aquele chão húmido, e com um gosto a ressaca de uísque a amargar-lhe a boca!Não tem um chavo.
Para comer depende da bondade alheia que não raras vezes se converte em pontapés naquele ponto onde as costas perdem o nome!Vá onde vá, duas sombras o seguem -- o Chapéu de Feltro e a Gabardina colam-se a todos os passos que dá!
Porquê e para quê, é um mistério que o transcende!...E quanto ao Júpiter C?
*4.5*Έχουν περάσει τόσες μέρες και ακόμα το έχω στο μυαλό μου..Ο Λουκ ξυπνάει στις τουαλέτες του σιδ
I'm a big fan of Follett's works so I was surprised that this turned out to be one of his lesser materials.
The idea is interesting enough and the opening scene holds promise but I found it to be a lackluster presentation and after about 80 pages or so I gave up on the novel.
It felt like a dumbed down novel in characters and plot demonstrations.
If you want to see Follet at his height read PILLARS OF THE EARTH or THE EYE OF THE NEEDLE or THE KEY TO REBECCA.
WHEN READ: November 2011; MY GRADE: C plus.
When I was about 60% through with the book, I thought it was going to be one of my favorite books.
The ending was a little disappointing and didn't have a marvelous ending, but I thought the story-line was great.
I really enjoyed the fact that the plot was unpredictable for such a long time.
Normally, as the book winds down the ending becomes more and more predictable as was the case with this book, but it took so long for that to happen, that I had to keep re-guessing how it would end.So, not one of my favorites, but very very good.
If I cannot stop turning the pages, it has to be considered a success!The novel begins when the third-person protagonist wakes up, finding that he has been sleeping on the floor of a men’s room in Union Station in Washington DC, dressed in rags, that he appears to have a hangover, and that he has absolutely no idea who he is.
Gradually, he figures out from the kinds of things he knows by instinct the kind of work he does (or did), and then he finds a way to locate someone who knows who he is, even as the people who had been following him begin to close in again.
1958 წელს Jupiter-C გახდა პირველი ამერიკული რაკეტა, რომელიც წარმატებით გაფრინდა და გაიყვანა ამერიკელების ხელოვნური თანამგზავრი ორბიტაზე.
ეს წიგნი სწორედ ამ რაკეტის გაშვებას ეხება.Jupiter-C-ის გაშვებამდე ერთი დღით ადრე მთავარი პერსონაჟი იღვიძებს მამაკაცების საპირფარეშოში, აცვია უსახლკაროს შესაფერისად, საშინლად სტკივა თავი, არ ახსოვს ვინ არის, რა ჰქვია, რა გვარია, რას საქმიანობს, აქ როგორ მოხვდა.
სწორედ აქ იწყება, თავდაუზოგავი რბოლა გადარჩენისთვის, მიზნის მიგნებისთვის, შეკითხვებზე პასუხების მისაღებად და ცხოვრების დასაბრუნებლად.ავტორი იმდენად ბუნდოვან სურათს ხატავს, რომ წიგნის თითქმის ნახევრამდე, ვერ გაერკვევი ვინ დადებითი პერსონაჟია და ვინ უარყოფითი.
ინტრიგას ისიც ამწვავებს, რომ თუ ამერიკელების მეორე მცდელობაც კრახით დამთავრდებოდა, ისინი უარს იტყოდნენ კოსმოსურ შეჯიბრში მონაწილეობაზე და ამ სფეროს სრულიად გადაულოცავდნენ საბჭოთა კავშირს, რაც წითლების უდიდესი გამარჯვება იქნებოდა.
I found this book exceedingly entertaining.
In most spy thriller books you know from the beginning the good guy, the bad guy, and the basic construction of the final confrontation scene.
In this book because of the main character's amnesia, I spend almost the entire book wondering is he good?
Or is this a Bourne Identity (movie not book) situation?
The same applied to the ancillary characters.
Who is the Russian spy?
Was anybody an actual spy?
I found the final actions of the final antagonist bizarre and unrealistic, but otherwise I highly recommend this book.
So I need to know what happened to the spaghetti and tomato sauce?
At one point the hero Luke is stirring it in the kitchen when he is called to the bathroom to remove some soap from the eye of the very attractive Elspeth and we all know where that leads!
Did the pan boil dry and set fire to the kitchen?Also, why didn't Anthony just shoot Luke on the first page......ah because then we wouldn't have a story!
Finally, if thousands were turning up to watch the Jupiter space rocket take off at Canaveral, how come there were always spare rooms on demand at the Starlite Motel?
Livro típico de Follet.
She specifically told me that I will love his works because he was an exceptional author.
I am a huge fan of books in which the main setting is NASA, NSA, CIA and CERN.
But of course, I am also dreaming of working to CERN and NASA..
;) Getting back, I really love this book.
And I must say that if you are a fan of Dan Brown then you will definitely love this book.
P.S. If you happen to read this book because of this book review, please contact me so that we can talk about it.
পাঠ-পরতিকরিয়াঃ কোড টু জিরো*********************রচনাঃ কেন ফলেট (KEN FOLLETT)অনুবাদঃ মানিক চনদর দাসপরচছদঃ মশিউর রহমান (মূল পরচছদ অবলমবনে)পরকাশনীঃ অনবেষা১ম পরকাশঃ একুশে গরনথমেলা ২০১৬কমপলিট পযাকেজ। পরিপূরণ তৃপত হবার মতো একটা গলপ। হযাঁ জনরার বিচারে “কোড টু জিরো” থৃলার তবে যথাযথ পরিমাণে এতে সব পাবেন। বনধুতব, পরেম, বিশবাসঘাতকতা, ভালবাসা খুঁজে নেয়া-খুঁজে পাওয়া, সূকষন ছোঁয়ায় হিউমর, দয রাইট ওয়ান পেয়ে হারানো আর না পেয়ে খোঁজার অভিবযকতি, সব আছে এতে এবং সুষম মাতরায়।লযুক নামের এক লোক, নিজেকে আবিষকার করে সমৃতি
পাঠ-প্রতিক্রিয়াঃ কোড টু জিরো*********************রচনাঃ কেন ফলেট (KEN FOLLETT)অনুবাদঃ মানিক চন্দ্র দাসপ্রচ্ছদঃ মশিউর রহমান (মূল প্রচ্ছদ অবলম্বনে)প্রকাশনীঃ অন্বেষা১ম প্রকাশঃ একুশে গ্রন্থমেলা ২০১৬কমপ্লিট প্যাকেজ। পরিপূর্ণ তৃপ্ত হবার মতো একটা গল্প। হ্যাঁ জনরার বিচারে “কোড টু জিরো” থৃলার তবে যথাযথ পরিমাণে এতে সব পাবেন। বন্ধুত্ব, প্রেম, বিশ্বাসঘাতকতা, ভালবাসা খুঁজে নেয়া-খুঁজে পাওয়া, সূক্ষ্ন ছোঁয়ায় হিউমর, দ্য রাইট ওয়ান পেয়ে হারানো আর না পেয়ে খোঁজার অভিব্যক্তি, সব আছে এতে এবং সুষম মাত্রায়।ল্যুক নামের এক লোক, নিজেকে আবিষ্কার করে স্মৃতিভ্রষ্ট অবস্থায় এবং সে যে মদ্যপ, খাম-খেয়ালী মানুষ; সেটা বিশ্বাস করবার মতো সবগুলো কারণ ছিল তার চোখের সামনে। ঠিক সে সময়, মহাশূণ্য যাত্রার জন্য পুরোপুরি প্রস্তুত আমেরিকা। ল্যুক তার স্মৃতি ফিরে পাবার, তার পরিচয়, তার নিজেকে ফিরে পাবার চেষ্টায় একটু একটু করে যখন সফল হচ্ছে; তখন পাঠক আবিষ্কার করে ইউ.এস.এ’র মহাশূণ্য যাত্রার সাথে ল্যুক জড়িয়ে আছে অবিচ্ছেদ্য ভাবে।থৃলারের বহুল চর্চিত একটা পন্থা হল “কে করেছে”। কেন ফলেট একেবারেই সে প্রশ্ন রাখেননি সেটা বলা যাবেনা কিন্তু “কোড টু জিরো”র প্রথম প্রশ্নটা হল “কি”। এই গল্পে ল্যুকের প্রয়োজনীয়তা (বা অবস্থান) কি। সে প্রশ্নের উত্তর পেতে পেতে পরবর্তী প্রশ্নের স্লাইড চলে আসে, “কেন”। প্রটাগনিস্ট কেন এমন?
It's because we don't love them, so we don't care what they think."This was recommended to me as a good read and I'll admit the start, and indeed the whole idea, is a gripping one.
The flashbacks to the nineteen forties could have worked well, but even there, the history came too early for the future effects to have any impact - the sex between Luke and billie laid the groundwork for the abortion, their first meeting pretty much trashed Elspeth and Luke's relationship, just to name a few instances.
Code to Zero is a thriller taking place during the height of the Cold War as the fledgling space program race between the United States and Russia wages on. Each chapter opens with an epigraph highlighting the progress of the launch of Explorer I at Cape Canaveral, Florida. What transpires is a race for time as it becomes apparent that there are intervening forces to sabotage the launch as the story rapidly moves from the Space Center at Cape Canaveral to Washington, DC to Huntsville, Alabama to its stunning conclusion.
This is the second book I’ve read by Ken Follett. I like his writing style. This is one of his older books and it was suspenseful and I enjoyed reading it. It is about the space race between the US and Russia in the late 1950’s. It starts off with a man waking up in a public bathroom with no memory of who he is. It turns out he is a rocket scientist and Russian spies at NASA have done this to him and he only has a short time to save the rocket launch.
i don t know if im becoming a reading snob or what but these types of books seem so fake to me after reading great writers. the sex scenes seem to be sprinkled in as obligatory requirements from the publisher. he tried to make his story authentic by putting scientific details in ala tom clancy. i got the feeling he was reading from rocketry manuals while typing this information. it reminded me of those scary days of the cold war which i am old enough to remember.
I really enjoyed this cold-war era spy thriller. Great characters and a gripping story.
Livro muito recomendado.
Heel het verhaal (een goeie 380 bladzijden) speelt zich af op amper 36 uren maar nergens gaat het traag.
Al vanaf de eerste bladzijden (een man wordt in een openbaar toilet wakker en blijkt niet meer te weten wie hij is en hoe hij daar terecht gekomen is) wordt de lezer meegesleurd in een dolle rollercoaster waarbij het hoofdpersonage beetje bij beetje te weten komt wie hij is en waarom hij daar terecht is gekomen en moet hij ook nog eens een sabotagepoging trachten te voorkomen.
Alles speelt zich af eind jaren vijftig in volle koude oorlog.Meesterlijk hoe Follett de spanning opbouwt en de lezer voortdurend op het verkeerde been zet.
Ken Follett is a fantastic writer; I'm a big fan.And, this book was decent.
It was okay.
Probably Follett's worst book, but this is the anomaly, the blip on the screen that doesn't belong--he is normally a very good writer.Who am I to judge, though?
I'm just an average guy who likes to get lost in books.
If you have a chance to read it, you might like it.
If you want to immerse yourself in Follett's best, try The Pillars of the Earth or The Century Trilogy, and save Code to Zero for later.
Pillars is still my favorite of his so far, but I did like this book.
Luke must work hard in spite of his amnesia in order to save the rocket!The only thing that bothered me about this book was all of the talk about communism.
We learn that Luke's friend, Anthony and his wife, Elspeth are working for the Soviet Union as spies and have jobs working for the CIA and NASA.
At the end of the book Anthony and Elspeth have to escape to the Soviet Union because of their treachery to the US.
This was an enjoyable read. I also liked the small facts at the beginning of each chapter - it helped me learn a little more about the early days of the U.S. space program. Sometimes my poor name recollection makes it a little difficult to follow characters, but this one was pretty easy.
Ken Follett has the extraordinary talent to write anything.
Claude Lucas, a rocket scientist, wakes up in a public restroom with no memory of his past.
As his past is revealed so is a conspiracy by his closest friends but the exact purpose of the treachery remains masterfully concealed until the end.
In the end Dr. Luke Lucas had to lose his memory to find his mind.
Some of the details strained my intellect and took up residence on the edge of possibility but at the conclusion of the last page, the Code to Zero proves a masterful piece of writing by a man at the top of his game.
Around five in the morning, on January 29, 1958, a man wakes up in the men's room at Union Station, Washington D.C. He cries out in shock at his reflection in the mirror.
On page 31, Luke, penniless, wandering around D.C. with global amnesia, realizes two men are shadowing him.
He does not know that someone in the CIA thinks he's the most dangerous man in America.And so this espionage thriller continues, with Luke sleuthing out who he is, and the reader knowing not much more than he does.
meh. Very tropish and cliched, both in character and plot. I just didn't care for any of the characters. The protagonist is "too perfect", with his high moral code, etc. I love a lot of Follet's work but this and "Paper Money" are forgettable. Don't bother. If you want some good Follet, try Eye of the Needle, on wings of eagles, or pillars of the earth.
Definitivamente Ken Follett no falla, suspenso e intriga desde el principio, mezclado además con algo de acción y romance, en donde cualquier cosa puede pasar y no sabes en quién confiar
This is a perfect, gripping and fun, spring/summer read.To be given 5 stars, it should be a little less naive, but it doesn't bother me to enjoy the book.
You can't possibly put it down, it's that good!
Non giovano una lunga serie di flashback che più che approfondire la conoscenza dei personaggi ne descrivono le relazioni sentimentali, anche con un paio di scivoloni (tali sono, in un romanzo di genere, quelli che vorrebbero essere dei clamorosi colpi di scena e che invece fanno esclamare al lettore triestino “savevo mi”).Trascinanti, come ci si aspetta da un Follett, le pagine finali, ma resta in sottofondo la sensazione di un romanzo incompiuto, che poco lascerà alla memoria.
Além disso, Ken Follett escreve em um ritmo ágil, que faz com que nos sintamos lá no próprio cenário que está sendo descrito, o que ele também faz maravilhosamente bem, e entramos no ritmo dos personagens, ficando sem fôlego, com medo e com um frio na barriga, diante de cada cena que se desenrola dentro das páginas.Já para os adeptos de romance, o autor também não deixa a desejar nesse ponto, e traz uma trama romântica e meio dramática digna de troféu, e embora esse não seja o principal objetivo do livro, é uma linha que corre durante toda a obra, e que dá um charme a mais, à medida que descobrimos uma teia de segredos, mentiras, desencontros e partidas, nas quais atitudes que são direcionadas à uma só pessoa podem afetar um país inteiro.Não consigo determinar muito bem pontos que poderiam ser negativos nesse autor e nesse livro, e embora esse não seja o meu favorito dentre os que ele escreveu, ele é impecável.
The plot is pretty much standard spy-thriller stuff: a top-ranked official in the late 1950s U.S. space program finds that two colleagues are Soviet spies intent on thwarting an upcoming missile launch. What lifts this out of the ordinary is a twist: the man is given a drug that erases all his personal memory, so he must find out who he is before he can foil the plot. The 'amnesia' element is also often over-used, but Follett makes it distinct.
