https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1988628.Saint_V_Scotland_Yard
I do not know how many of the younger generation are familiar with Leslie Charteris's famous character The Saint: he belongs to an older generation, a generation which revered the "Gentleman Outlaw", the Robin Hood who stole from the rich and gave to the poor.
He is forever playing hide-and-seek with his arch-nemesis Chief Inspector Teal of Scotland Yard, and needless to say, winning.The saint is young, handsome, suave, ruthless and quintessentially English.
Roger Moore as the SaintThe saint stories are fast-paced and amusing - and Charteris's language is a real treat.
Charteris's English is not that of your run-of-the-mill thriller: reading his books will definitely improve one's command over the language.
And if you think about it, this very polite form of anarchy – one that is never too much of a danger – has something incredibly English about it.Following on from the other stories in this volume, we have Simon at his indomitable best (although again with another moment of stupidity to drive the plot forward) as well as a decidedly ill-judged moment of racism when a character disguises himself in blackface.
I don't know why the Saint is so popular! He is a beastly, preening, and arrogant cad, with no depth of personality whatsoever! Of course crooks have an aura of daring and charm that an ordinary detective can't possibly have, but it's cheap and, frankly, implausible to try to have the best of both worlds by alleging that the character is a sort of Robin Hood. Raffles or Lupin are vastly superior, as far as thieves go...Overall, though, the plots were fun, and the pacing good.
The Saint, a character who remained popular for decades and has been portrayed by everyone from George Sanders and Vincent Price to Roger Moore and Val Kilmer got his start in literature.This is book is from 1932 and each story features the Saint working outside or even against Scotland Yard, near the start of the character's run and collects three short stories.
The final story, "The Melancholy Journey of Mr Teal" finds the Saint trying to steal a jewel thief's loot before he's caught by Scotland Yard.Overall, the stories are decent for the period.
Overall though, this was a decent book featuring an early incarnation of the Saint.
The same threatening letters, the same merciless bleeding of the honest toiler...”).The Million Pound Day — which would have been around 1931, of course — would cost at least a hundred million now, a sum certainly enough to prompt the associated shenanigans, in which the Saint rescues a man from torture and finds himself involved in a plot to swindle the Bank of Italy.And The Melancholy Journey of Mr. Teal finds the Saint for once unable to talk his way out of trouble, and on the brink of being arrested — leading gracefully into the next book, one of the best of all Saint adventures, a romp through a Germany that was not yet quite Hitler’s.Incidentally, those who have been clubbed to the ground by O-Level French (or whatever the equivalent is nowadays) may doubt that anyone — in addition to being able to box, throw knives and play the banjo — could really speak as many languages as the Saint does.
Three tales of daring do starring our old friend Simon Templar. This was a fun read in an afternoon. For me, the best part of this book was the building and renovating of what will turn into the Saint's home and hide out. I remembered it from books I had read years ago, and had wondered when it would come into play.
This was a quite entertaining book to read it moves along quickly if you remember the old show The Saint and so it's fun to read. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did.
Originally published on my blog here in December 1999.By mid 1932, Charteris must have been tired; and The Saint Versus Scotland Yard (aka The Holy Terror) was only in the middle of an amazing burst of work which produced most of the early Saint stories in just a couple of years.
The most interesting aspect of any of these stories, however, occurs in The Melancholy Journey of Mr Teal when Simon carries his "favourite sport" of baiting Teal a little too far.
“The Inland Revenue” sees Templar unable to persuade the tax authorities that he should be classed as a tax-free one-man charitable endeavour, and thus needs to find a kindly soul to pay his tax bill for him (well, he's not going to pay it himself!) “The Million Pound Day” (to me the weakest of the three, and significantly more dated than the others) has him embroiled in a plot to defraud the Italian mint.
“The Inland Revenue” is probably the strongest as a standalone story, but “The Melancholy Journey” is an excellent contributor to the ongoing tale.Charteris' trademark style comes out in force as usual: “A tinge of old beetroot suffused Mr Teal’s rubicund complexion.
With this book, he and she operate simpatico with the three adventures, some of them proving down right dangerous, and two of them with enterprising villains worth their salt in crime.This well-known trio of stories begins with The Inland Revenue.
Not an easy task- the villain is a wily opponent.The Million Pound Day and a happenstance brings Simon face to face with a nasty customer (Kuzela) who sets his sights on eradicating the Saint.
Hold on to your pants!#7 is one of those which strikes you with its derring-do, poetry, awesome villains, Teal, and a growing relationship with Pat Holm (a willing partner and definite interest in the Saint's life.

I checked The Saint out because I remember the TV series. I did not finish this book as much as I tried. It just was not worth it. It is actually two stories (maybe all the Saint books are ??) and they do not seem to be chronological. In fact it seemed as the Saint had made an unsettling personality change from one to the next. The prose and setting are just too old fashioned, and the stories didn't have enough substance to carry me through.
A series of three short stories featuring Charteris' character "The Saint." Each is a mystery of sorts featuring The Saint accomplishing whatever he has set himself out to do and evading the efforts of Scotland Yard Chief Inspector of C.I.D. Teal's efforts to find something criminal to arrest The Saint for. Each finds The Saint matching wits and strength with various villains and coming out on top.
As improbable and two dimensional as Charteris may be, this volume remains is a delightful account of one of the post war's most charming and indomitable rogues
