https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12216302-cold-days
Did I mention that I got to read an early version of this a couple months ago?I did. I *so* did. Even in its rough form, it was awesome. Jim never ceases to amaze me.In closing, I know things that you do not. Wonderful things. Terrible things. For the rest of you, the book will be out in late November. patP.S. Muahahahahaha!
Harry, no longer just a wiseass small fish in a big pond, has become a power to be truly reckoned with, playing on almost equal footing with the biggest supernatural powers of Butcher's world (but still, true to his nature, remains a wiseass).
The Mantle of Winter Knight, while giving more power than one'd think possible, comes with repercussions - it seems to draw out the worst in Harry, that has always been there but until now remained mostly under control.
Mr. Butcher....Jim....you're a junky dealer!!!!!!!Alright sigh you, my fellow Goodread's member came here for a review of the book.
I've loved the entire series, though as individual books there are some I'd rate a little better than others (though I leave them all at a 5 star rating).
That's why even though each book can be enjoyed individually I strongly recommend, I beg you to start at the first novel and read them.
UPDATE Jan. 27, 2015 This was written the night after the book came out...but an update is called for!Mr. Butcher...Jim....another book series?!?!?!?!?!
It has spoilers, so don't bother reading if you haven't read the book.Honestly, I enjoyed the book because I am a huge fan of The Dresden Files, but that doesn't mean I am going to be biased and just rate everything 5 stars.I don't know if it's due to the different type of series I have been reading lately or not, but seeing Harry as the underdog yet again didn't sit well with me.I felt like he had to rely on his friends too often to save his butt in this book.
When he finally came to believe it was really him, it made me smile.We find out Molly already knew Harry was alive weeks ago, so their reunion felt really lackluster to me.Again the same thing happens with Murphy.
In his continued ode to chauvinism, he admits he can't hit a woman, even if she's a psychopathic, possessed female who wants to start Armageddon.Correlated to the character issues is the development of Dresden assuming mantle of the Winter Knight, one of the crucial points of this book.
The power of the mantle causes intense feelings of rage and lust--at least, Dresden frequently attributes it to the 'mantle.' However, Butcher tells us a great deal about how 'calculating' Winter is, how the chief aspect is a focus on logic, reasoning, and elaborate plotting based on calculating the odds, even gauging for emotional response.
By Far the best Dresden Files book since Summer Knight. A great recovery over the disappointing Ghost Story. Lots of new revelations. Can't wait for book 15 tho as Nicodemus is expected to be backRead my full review Cold Days Review
It was entertaining, up to a point.I feel like Butcher has lost control of the Dresden Files.
It creaks under the weight of established continuity.It's been clear for a few books that Butcher is attempting a sort of sleight-of-hand stasis for Harry, and with this book it goes into the deep end.
That way Harry gets to be more badass while still basically behaving the same way as he always has.There was a sweet spot of 2 or 3 books where it looked like there was going to be more to Dresden than that, but it passed.
Another great book in the Dresden series! Harry Dresden and his gang of misfits just keep getting better with each book!All of the plot twists with Winter and Summer made this book fantastic. The last 30% of the book was nonstop action and I just kept frantically turning the pages. There are so many unanswered questions with the way this book ends and of course I'll be reading the next one in the series. Butcher does it again!
WHAT THE ACTUAL FUCK.Many, many times throughout the book Harry has a thought process that goes something like: "if I wanted to, I could totally rape Sarissa/Andi/Lily/Molly/random Sidhe right now and NOTHING THEY COULD DO WOULD STOP ME." With Karrin it's violence, and he rather casually considers how easy it'd be to kill her after slamming his hand into the door six inches from her face (she doesn't flinch at all, and is totally cool knowing that Dresden is thinking violent thoughts toward her and loves him anyway).
I didn't like book #13 (Ghost Story), but I love this series and its characters.
I got some push-back that I just didn't like change.
I like change.
It's been 12 years since the first book and it's been 12 years since those events have happened to Harry.
Not always for the best, but they have changed.
I don't mind big events happening, I don't even mind when a book mind-f@@ks me, as long as it serves a logical and greater purpose.
I can still like the series and still enjoy the books after it.
Check out my blogs for more reviews and book stuff: http://ramblingsofabookworm3.blogspot...http://ramblings-of-a-bookworm.tumblr... During Reading: How does Jim Butcher do it how HOW !!this book is so goooooood!! Pre-Reading: Cover's out, cover's out, COVER'S OUT!!!(Composing my self)..is it just me or does Harry look like Tony Stark in this?i think Jim is trying to send us a message maybe Harry is also "IRON MAN"but he can't be Iron Man because he can't go near machinery but maybeee... that's
Check out my blogs for more reviews and book stuff: http://ramblingsofabookworm3.blogspot...http://ramblings-of-a-bookworm.tumblr...
During Reading:
How does Jim Butcher do it how HOW !!this book is so goooooood!!
Pre-Reading:
Cover's out, cover's out, COVER'S OUT!!!(Composing my self)..is it just me or does Harry look like Tony Stark in this?i think Jim is trying to send us a message maybe Harry is also "IRON MAN"but he can't be Iron Man because he can't go near machinery but maybeee...
that's what he want's us to think ..Don't mind me i am just rambling here..Edit:Sample chapters of coldays 1 and 2 are out!http://www.jim-butcher.com/books/dres...3 is out too
This series is probably my most treasured set of books. I love these books, every single one of them, but my favorites were Dead Beat and Changes.I'm not going to hope that Jim Butcher hurries. I want him to take his time and write it how he wants. But there are times I do wish I could skip ahead to when the book is released and start reading it already! :)
The Dresden Files by Jim Butcher is one of my all time favorite series.
I have no clue why I put off reading Cold Days for so long because it was an absolutely fantastic return to Harry's Chicago (and the Nevernever) - I actually had to give myself a bit of a refresher.
Anyway, Harry and company have gone through some pretty major changes, but they're all in top form even if they've changed a bit along the way.
After that gut-punch of an ending, it's time to jump into Skin Game!
Harry Dresden, formidable wizard/private investigator, is all that stands between Chicago and disaster from the “Never-Never.” It has always been thus (*since Harry came to town) and this is now novel #14.
When it comes to urban fantasy, I am all-in with Harry Dresden.
Something is missing at the core of this novel.I was left feeling much as Harry expresses: “…I could feel a horrible, hopeless weight settling across my heart.
Jim Butcher is a bit self-indulgent here, but I see enough potential that I probably won’t turn my back on #15.
Of the course of the 14 books thing have evolved in a way I never expected.This books answers many questions I had, including things I had hoped would have been in Ghost Story but weren't.I don't like to include spoilers in my reviews but there are a few minor things I'll hit on (while leaving all the really HUGE developments unsaid).I really loved some of the new characters introduced in this novel in particular Kringle and Lacuna.
And without giving any details, it was awesome to learn more about Demonreach.I'm torn on the idea of Mr. Butcher taking time away from Harry to write a new Steampunk series.
But it appears no-one told Jim Butcher!This book was fantastic and the action was non stop.
This series seems to be getting better and better!This story opens the world of Harry Dresden even wider and he, again as the under dog, back again with his friends around him, struggle to complete a seemingly impossible task.Interestingly too, we see the further struggle for Harry between what it means to be good or evil when you have so much power.I'm so sad I only have Skin Games to go before I've caught up- then I'll be in the waiting game like everyone else!Recommended as a superlative urban fantasy.
I read this book to fill the Supernatural square of my 2018 Halloween Bingo card.The difficult we do right away—the impossible takes a little longer.But only a little, because Harry Dresden’s impossible tasks always seem to come with a deadline.
But like all good urban fantasy heroes, Harry has a whole gang of good folks (with various abilities and powers) who will walk into hell with him and he’s also pretty good at forging alliances across the aisle with some on the opposing side (or do they just think they’re on the opposing side?)How appropriate to be reading a book called Cold Days when the sky was trying it’s best to snow on us!
Cuddling up in a fuzzy blanket and reading the further adventures of Harry Dresden just seemed like the best thing to do!
Hanging out for this one. I don't want JB to speed up his writing and reduce the wonder that is Harry, but really, I could read a new one every week (I'd say every day but I need to work to pay for books...).
*********Gushing review alert********** So good, so very good. I honestly don't even have the words.Whenever I lose my faith in books, whenever I think there are no original stories left to tell, all I have to do is look to The Dresden Files. These books are everything. I'm not exaggerating when I say that these audiobooks have changed my life. I dream of these characters. I hear their voices in my head. I find myself grumbling, "EMPTY NIGHT!" when I'm mad. James Marsters has changed my life. J
I honestly don't even have the words.Whenever I lose my faith in books, whenever I think there are no original stories left to tell, all I have to do is look to The Dresden Files.
I'm not exaggerating when I say that these audiobooks have changed my life.
Jim Butcher has changed me.
There is no point discussing plot or pros and cons this far into the series.
I always think that there is NO WAY that Harry can save the day, and Jim Butcher figures out a way to make it all come together in a manner that makes sense.
Jim Butcher is simply brilliant.
It's no longer a loner-solves-a-case series, it's an EPIC BATTLE FOR ALL OF EXISTENCE!
series.
(view spoiler)[Suddenly, Harry - who I will admit has never been brilliant about not being a sexist dick, but was not so bad after the first couple of books - is suddenly all, "A woman!
But I won't because I am a Good Guy, and you should give me many cookies for that." It happened every single time a woman is on the page, with the exception of Lacuna (who still has a paragraph devoted to her hotness) and Murphy, who he'd rather kill, apparently.
It was extremely off putting, as was the fact that the first thing Harry says about every single female character is how hot she is.
Jim Butcher is not a wasteful author, and that gives him the ability to do a lot of really impressive things.As we open this story, Harry Dresden is no longer dead.
We went on to discover angels and demons and things that walked between them, ghosts and goblins and creatures that were just barely understandable by our mortal minds.Now we take another step back, out beyond the borders of our reality as we know it.
In a game that is so intricate and dangerous, these things use great powers as pawns - including Harry Dresden - and look forward to their inevitable victory.As with so many of the other Dresden Files books, this is a solid read, and you'll fly right through it.
While I appreciate that the author has begun a new story arc, he has done it by taking away from Harry Dresden much of what made him who he was.
While there are usually 2 or 3 parallel stories lines revolving around factions trying to stop Harry, this book had so many that I lost count.
At every turn someone new was trying to stop Harry.
Audiobook Notes   Content Advisories  It is difficult to find commentary on the sex/violence/language content of book if you are interested.
It runs quite strongly through the book and sex is occasionally coupled with violence.
Just assembling some thoughts:There was something missing from these later books that I had trouble putting my finger on until I went back and listened to some of the earlier ones.
(view spoiler)[I was really looking forward to Harry's reunion with Karrin, and Butcher really under-delivered on that.
Butcher does deliver on a couple of emotional moments later, once the pace of the story slowed down, and these mollified the part of me who wants Harry and Karrin to hump for days.
I'm too invested in this series to ever stop reading the books or loving the characters.
টানা তিন দিন কাজকরম সব শিকেয় তুলে দিনরাত কমবল মুড়ি দিয়ে হাতে টযাব নিয়ে গড়াগড়ি খেতে খেতে হিম শীতের মধযে একদম মানানসই নামের একটা ইবুক ধুমিয়ে পড়ে শেষ করলাম গতকালঃ দয ডরেসডেন ফাইলস সিরিজের ১৪ নমবর উপনযাস "কোলড ডেইজ"। নতুন করে অতিমাতরিক বিশেষণে বিশেষায়িত করার মত আমার সটকে আর কিছু নাই, শুধু বলতে পারি বইটা নিঃসনদেহে সিরিজের অনযতম শরেষঠ কাহিনী (মনতবযটা মনে হয় রিসেনটলি শেষ করা সিরিজের অনযানয বইগুলোর বযাপারেও করতে হয়েছে)। যেমন টানটান উততেজনার শবাসরুদধকর রোমাঞচ, তেমনি মাইনডবলোয়িং অযাকশন-পযাকড, পলটের চতুরদি

I feel like this entry in the series just took Dresden from and bunch of semi-related stand alone Urban Fantasy novels to one huge Epic Urban Fantasy tapestry.
I love that he teases my stupid squishy romantic side a little, without the story turning into a another lame paranormal romance (sorry PNR fans, it's just not my thing).
I just plain love this series.What else can I say?
If you're considering picking this book up, I'm hoping you've read the other thirteen books in the series first.
And if you've read all thirteen, I'm guessing you're enough of a fan to want to continue.
Loved it!Damn it...
The best Dresden book even. This book has so many plot twists and turns.
This is like the eleventy-millionth Dresden Files book, so if you haven't read the previous ones you won't know what's going on anyway; and if you have, you'll want to read this one no matter what it's about because you're desperate to find out what the heck happened after the very end of the last book, when (view spoiler)[Harry totally comes back from the dead (hide spoiler)].I'll just add that if you like the audio versions of these books you'll be glad to hear that James Marsters is back to narrating, and in my humble opinion he sounds especially hot when he does Thomas' voice.
I mean, a lot of people whose opinions I respect have been rating this 5 stars and gushing how it's the best Dresden yet.So I am reading along, happy to be back in Dresden world but not seeing anything TOO awesome, and am thinking this will be a 4, as usual.Then all of a sudden Harry is fighting Kris Kringle.
and yes, it does all come together, and yes, there was a good explanation for Santa, and yes, I am admittedly eating crow and giving this a 5 and proclaiming it the best Dresden ever.And I need to apologize to Butcher for ever doubting it, and congratulating him on acheiving scope as worthy as Malazan...Fabulous!
I'm not sure what I can say about this series that I haven't already said. I LOVE LOVE LOVE this series. It has been a fun and entertaining series. The audio performance by Jame Marsters just adds to the enjoyment. Sometimes, things just all line up and it is almost pure perfection. I'm going to be sad when I finish the series and I will actually have to wait for the next one with all the others that have gone before me. I'll be in good company......right Sonja?
I'd been away from home for what felt like a very long time.I didn't get to repay anyone for losing my home and my dog.
But nothing else comes to mind that so perfectly describes these books: Jim Butcher providing the universe, Harry Dresden living in it, and ...
It's a perfect marriage, this; Butcher's geekiness makes mine look like I'm not trying, and the wisecrackery with which he imbues Harry Dresden is PHD level.
