https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/180940.Practical_Candleburning_Rituals
Once again Buckland gives us "authentic rituals" that sound as though they were lifted by bargain-basement gypsy fortune-tellers, and ask us to abandon any sort of dignity or reason as we mumble the sacred words to make our wishes come true.
Try not to wonder how our ancestors acquired the proper colour candles or the right incense to ensure success for their rituals, or how this mysterious lore was handed down only to someone like Buckland.
The next time someone mentions how Anton LaVey was the literary equivalent of a car salesman (and he basically admitted he was), I would like to point out Raymond Buckland and his vast library of arcane literature.
One of the first books on magick that I acquired as a teen.
It was a shocker in that it included pagan and christian variations of the same spells.
I also quickly realized that the enormous number of candles, space, and time these rituals would take made secrecy a problem.
If you are in a situation requiring a high level of secrecy, this isn't the book for you.
The smell of wax and smoke will linger.
Many of the rituals require several days to complete or for candles to burn all the way out.
You can't just pack this stuff away in a hurry.
Seems to be a good introduction for beginners, but I wasn't a fan of the large amount of spells used for negative purposes-- it's one thing to have a spell to open people's eyes to your good qualities, for example, but it's quite another to break up an existing relationship.
One of my fave spell books. I use it quite often. Good basic candle spells.8/5/18: I have grown a lot since I last read this book, used these spells. It's time for this book to move on.
I don't think my ancestors would have been all that concerned about the colors, since they wouldn't have been able to get, say, a gold candle very easily.Another thing that put me off and that I hadn't remembered this book included when I first bought it so many years ago was how LONG these rituals apparently take to complete.
I somehow doubt that the Universe much cares if I have a gold or light green candle or whether I'm able to conduct a ritual for 2 weeks straight without disturbing my altar so long as I had a real intent and plenty of energy invested in my goal.
The 1-5 Star Review is the total of what I have to say about this book, specifically.Caveat: This review is historical/archival in nature.
Additionally, I worked for a company in this field, 2015-2016, and had to read an ocean of this stuff to do my job.Like televangelists, and snake-oil salesman, these publishers prey on the vulnerable.
To quote Holden from Chasing Amy, "Over- or underweight [people] who don't get laid - they're our bread and butter."Though a copypasta of it, these books never tell you about hermeticism.
Having worked in this field, including sales of these exact books, I can tell you...
This book was alright. I wouldn't gush over it but if someone is new to candle magick then this would be an asset to your collection (Check out The Enchanted Candle by Lady Rhea). People either love or hate Raymond Buckland. In any case, he has made significant contributions to the Pagan community whether or not you agree with his approach. This book is alright as I mentioned before. It covers a lot of the basics.
No está mal, pero tiene muchos rituales para sobreponerse hacia los demás, incluso para hacer daño. La magia está para todo, pero pienso que hay que usarla para cosas benéficas, como el desapego de lo material, la conquista de uno mismo y generar más paz y amor.
A great little read full of information. Simple to read and great for anyone with an open mind Christian and pagan alike.
I'm not a huge Buckland fan. However, I found this book great for teens! (as long as they don't burn down the house) It was over all clean, and wholesome, allowing for someone to practice without screwing themselves over. I'd recommend it for a younger teen that's new at this, or someone wanting to dabble in the "occult".
It's only been in the last few years that I have actually started to be open to working candle magic.
There is the section of preparation, section for witchcraft style spells, and a section on Christian style candle magic rituals.
The final section is an appendix that talks about and covers temptation in magic and ways to work magic without candles due to living situations.The section on recuperation which opens the book really should not be forgotten.
Every altar setup includes a space for the book to use as a reference.The third section of the book focuses on Christian spells.
This book is a contemporary Grimoire in every sense of the word.
Unlike medevil grimoires, it doesn't use hyperbole or have a lengthy introduction where the author expands on all the mystical ecperiences he's had in order to impress/scare you.
The author gets straight to the point.
The rituals described are very clean, simple and won't ruffle anyone's feathers with a christian version and a dechristianized version for neopagans.This is magic for the masses, pretty much, and after wading through the lemegaton and contrived nonsense like the grimorium imperium, I have to say this simplicity is certainly refreshing.Ray Buckland has this gentle, almost fatherly tone in his writing that I really liked.
I plan to pick up more of his books in the future.
If you are interested in learning some of the basics of candle magic, this is a book I'd really consider adding to your shelf.
A warning, though, that the book is definitely european pagan oriented, and so there are some concepts and ideas in the book that are a little strange if that's not your particular path.However, there's great information for a beginner, and it lays out some of the more basic concepts (colors of the candles, altar setup, basic spells to get you to understand different parts of them).
If you're strictly hoodoo or strictly some other field of magic, I still recommend using this to help you understand things a little better!
Believe it or not, despite the fact that half the space in the book is taken up by the Christian versions of the spells, this is one of the top three or four spellbooks I have used over the last 20 years! Perhaps because I love candle magic, these spells work extremely well for me, and they are awfully fun and engaging to perform. Beginners are well served to have this book and non-beginners will turn to it again and again when you want something simple and powerful that will work. Good luck!
Good book, but if you use the spells that are in it,...you definitely need the time and the space....most of the spells take days or weeks to work through completley and you need the space to set up for the spell and to not be disturbed during that time.
I enjoyed this book, it gave me some of the most practical formulas for candle rituals that I've been able to find so far. Raymond Buckland has a rich history in the Romany traditions, which lends him some credibility.
Seeing and Feeling is Believing!Very, very easy to read and comprehend. I haven't even begun and I already see my candle burning rituals coming through. Thank you Mr. Buckland. Looking forward to starting.
I'm all for books that are easily organized and written for almost any level of comprehension, and this one fits the bill. No matter your experience level, or knowledge, you'll be able to follow and understand what is being written and and what points of the aurthor.
These candle magick rituals are neither effective nor practical. Written in the same manner as stereo instructions. Waste of money.
This book is nice and simple. It has two versions of each ritual, Christian and a more Wiccan/spiritual version. I skip the Christian half of the book.
I had to laugh at having a Christian version and an Old Religion version. I guess he had to think of something because if one or the other wasn't there it would only be half the book it is lol.
I love candle magick, and this is a great book to have for such spells.
I bought it as a reference/comparative book. I don't practice this type of thing as I find it a method of "ignoring the real problem".
Great foundation into candle burning...excellence resource... you will want to read and re read this one.
bah.
Haven't finished reading it, not sure when I will get my hands on it again. I had/have the Advanced Practical Candleburning Rituals, and thus, it is a bit advanced for my skill level.
great and very useful!
I didn't think it was bad; great information, but (unfortunately)a bit outdated. I hope they update this book at some point.
