https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4648.Death_in_the_Afternoon
Death in the Afternoon can be seen as Ernest Hemingway’s attempt to equate the ritualized dance of the matador with that of the writer.
It’s significant, I think, that unlike his story in The Sun Also Rises, Hemingway is presenting the ritual of bullfighting strictly as nonfiction.
In Death in the Afternoon, readers can learn quite a lot about bullfighting (the phases of the bullfight as well as the history and pageantry of this violent sport) but, to me, what’s more interesting is what there is to be learned about Hemingway.
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[Other books on bullfighting I've read are Ora Plata: Embroidered Costumes of the Bullfight Running with the Bulls: Fiestas, Corridas, Toreros, and An American's Adventure in Pamplona, and the fantastic Death and the Sun: A Matador's Season in the Heart of Spain which I didn't review (as yet).
A 5-star book about the business of bullfighting, from the breeding of the bulls through to what happens to matadors that live long enough to retire.
Hemingway's classic treatise on Spanish bullfighting. After reading, my son asked about the book and it's barbaric subject. He and I watched some bull fights on Youtube and he said, "WHAT??? They actually kill the bulls?" In this age of PETA and Michael Vick it was strange to read. This 80 year old glimpse into Old World savagery was not Hemingway's greatest work, but it demonstrated his technical skill and mastery of the language. It was a good book, the reading of it was very fine.
Death In The Afternoon, Bigotry At Night What an unusual book. Macho, macho man Hemingway tells you everything you never wanted to know about bullfighting and will probably forget as soon as you put the book down. But there are also some worthwhile insights about aesthetics.THE GOOD...This volume is as much about writing as it is bullfighting. Included is Hemingway's famous "iceberg" theory: If a writer of prose knows enough about what he is writing about, he may omit things that he knows and t
Macho, macho man Hemingway tells you everything you never wanted to know about bullfighting and will probably forget as soon as you put the book down.
Here’s another interesting passage: … there is one thing you can do and that is know what is good and what is bad, to appreciate the new but let nothing confuse your standards.
You can continue to attend bullfights even when they are bad; but never applaud what is not good.
You’ll learn everything about bullfighting techniques, cape technique, footwork, how to work the ring, where best to sit in the stadium and how much those seats cost, the difference between matadors, toreadors, picadors, banderilleros… and then there's:THE BAD...Not everything’s so sunny in the bullring, however.
A live pelican is an interesting, amusing, and sympathetic bird, though if you handle him he will give you lice; but a dead pelican looks very silly. Lotz: Hello, everyone. Welcome back to book club. Did everyone finish our book?All: Yes, yes.Lotz: Good. Now did anybody like it?Doctor: I thought it was dreadful the way he talks about the bulls.Lotz: Ok, you can go then.Businessman: Really, this whole business sounds crude and wasteful.Lotz: You are dismissed.Shopkeeper: I’d never let my childre
Now did anybody like it?Doctor: I thought it was dreadful the way he talks about the bulls.Lotz: Ok, you can go then.Businessman: Really, this whole business sounds crude and wasteful.Lotz: You are dismissed.Shopkeeper: I’d never let my children read this sort of thing.Lotz: Off you go.
Didn’t Hemingway do this in the book?Lotz: Yes, Madame, he certainly did.
But tell me, are you now curious to see a bullfight?Old Woman: I suppose so, just to see if I can pick up on any of the things Hemingway talked about.
I’ll review this more once I get my computer back. Parts of the book annoyed me (the stylized dialogue with the old lady at the end of the chapters seemed forced and weird, but produced some of the best lines and observations in the book) and parts left me breathless. I am unashamed and unabashed in my love for Hemingway. I love his curiosity, his passion, his style. He doesn’t always kill clean, but he doesn’t cheat and always gives the reader a good, dramatic show.
At the very beginning of the book Hemingway writes:I suppose, from a modern moral point of view, that is, a Christian point of view, the whole bullfight is indefensible; there is much cruelty, there is always danger, either sought or unlooked for, and there is always death, and I should not try to defend it now, only to tell honestly the things I have found true about it.
This is mainly with reference to Spain in the 1920s and 30s with a few mentions of the Bullfighting scene in Mexico.Ferdinand was one of my favourite books as a child, so I can't imagine ever watching a bull-fight but I was pleasantly surprised how interesting it was to read the details of how matadors train and learn their technique from mock fighting with cows (training with bulls would not be the wisest pastime, cattle are dangerous enough out in the fields as it is), to the set up of the ring and how the event is structured to ensure the death of the bull.There is no interest though in the whys of bull fighting, why this sacrificial event developed in Iberia and why not elsewhere, particularly considering that over the border in Southern France they have their own different bull sport tradition that doesn't involve the death of the beast as a matter of course.
If you've read Moby Dick, you'll have a idea about how an author can obsess about a particular human activity, in detail, and one goes along for the ride because in that obsessive examination is a clue to what the author feels is important in some aspect of humanity.
Again, Hemingway is a sucker for the Spanish way of seeing life and death and courage.
Hemingway, through bullfighting, somehow finds a florid display of people facing the fear of death and conquering it.
But, like Moby dick, it's a way of finding out a lot about a subject and how that activity relates to the human condition.
I wasn't really sure what to expect when I picked this up, but I thought if I were to read about bullfighting, Hemingway might be a good choice as a guide.
Perhaps the most interesting part was Hemingway's recurring theme of the bravery of the bull.
It's easy for an outsider to think of the matador as brave (or crazy), but one rarely considers the idea of a brave bull and how that bravery can raise the level of a bullfight to sheer brilliance if properly used by the matador.Also, you get a glimpse of Spain and its people through his writing, which I also enjoyed immensely.
Death in the Afternoon, Ernest Hemingway مرگ در بعد از ظهر؛ در سال 1932 نگاشته شده، یک کار غیرداستانی درباره گاوبازی اسپانیاییترجمه ای فارسی برای این کتاب پیدا نکردم
If the matador wins and the spectator desires an example of Man triumphing over nature, he might argue for a certain moral high ground in bullfighting.
The bullfight, arguably, represents a dance - the unavoidable snare of Death and the proud defiance of Life - in all its terrible beauty or gallant victory.
Such a pessimistic respect for death might ultimately render all of life's happiness as meaningless, which would explain the moral dread felt by some who witness the bullfight.
After reading Death In The Afternoon, a book centering around a "sport" I care nothing about, I somehow feel that I've come closer to appreciating and understanding the essence of Hemingway's ethos.
He writes, "The best of all fighting bulls have a quality, called nobility by the Spanish, which is the most extraordinary part of the whole business" (113), yet Hemingway does not provide any comment on the utter absurdity of the whole business.
Hemingway also expounds quite at length about his views on art and the craft of writing.
He says: "When writing a novel, a writer should create living people; people not characters.
Additionally, Hemingway has provided the reader with a detailed glossary of important bullfighting terms for true aficionados.
He very briefly touches on such connections as how bull-fighting is a metaphor for art and Spain itself, though I wish he worked this more thoroughlyIn addition to all the above there is the big issue of the narrator's voice, i.e. Hemingway himself.
There were many times while reading it I felt certain I was reading a parody of Hemingway rather than the true article.All this being said, the book did make me interested in seeing a bull fight, which is much of the point of it.
All I can figure is that Hemingway really wanted to be a bullfighter, though I am not sure "Bull Fighter" is the correct term for this activity, "Ritualistic and Methodical Bull Torturer and Slaughterer" seems more appropriate from what I read in this book.
A huge glossary of terms at the back of the book also shows Hemingway's unique interpretation of not only the language and terminology of bull fighting, but of Spanish slang.
(And by Hemingway's defining of the word Maricon I now see that he was a bit homophobic.) The book also includes Hemingway telling of the reactions of many people he attended the bull fights with, identifying them only by sex, initials, and age, telling who enjoyed it, who hated it, and why.
4.5 stars...Amazing prose, beautifuly written book...Before death in the afternoon I knew nothing about bullfighting and all the tradition and honor that lays behind such an ancient spanish tradition. With Death in the Afternoon, Hemingway shows his point at defending this whole violent world of matadores, picadores, banderilleros and toros de lidia and I respect him for that.In my opinion, the book is enjoyable not for the topic but for the arguments of this great author...
I despise bullfighting.
It's disgusting.
But if someone manages to write 350 pages about bullfighting so enthusiastically and lovingly–describing its nuances, different moves and greatest bullfighters, its pride, heroic feelings, rigid and honorable rules and passion, technicalities, Spanish taverns and the morbid life of the matadors, all while encompassing a vivid picture of the now long-gone Spain of the 30's–that it keeps such a rabid hater of the "sport" as I am glued into the book and, goddamn, to enjoy it, the book is good.
It has to be great.
Death in the Afternoon is a non-fiction book by Ernest Hemingway that explores the ceremony and traditions of Spanish bullfighting.
Still considered one of the best books ever written about bullfighting, Death in the Afternoon explores the sport by one of its aficionados.This is an interesting book, not something I would read normally but I did enjoy it.
I don’t read enough non-fiction, let alone travel or sports writing so this was a book way out of left field.
Also interesting to see how this review turned out; I’m never know how to approach a non-fiction review and I think I did alright here.This review originally appeared on my blog; http://literary-exploration.com/2013/...
It's a reference work (complete with glossary) that reads like a novel, and there's even ninety-plus pages of black-and-white photographs at the end that tell a stark and unflinchingly realistic tale all their own.Hemingway's reason for writing the book was as clear and simple as his writing:"I was trying to write then...and I found the greatest difficulty...was to put down what really happened.
I was trying to learn to write, commencing with the simplest things, and one of the simplest and most fundamental is violent death.""...to put down what really happened." This Hemingway does, and does brilliantly.
Grim stuff.)Death in the Afternoon is a classic, and well worth your time if you're at all interested in Hemingway and/or bullfighting.
En este sentido, las premisas de Hemingway para la defensa de las corridas de toros (pobres en términos morales, interesantes en cuanto a datos e información sobre esa forma de asesinato) me enfrentaron a alguien casi tan prejuicioso y provinciano como Jack Kerouac.
Ojalá lo que vuelva a leer de Hemingway esté a la par de "El viejo y el mar" o de "Por quién doblan las campanas", libros que siento cada vez más distantes cuando menciono al escritor americano y espero a la primera idea sobre su literatura.
Me parece un acto retrógado, aunque por otra parte siempre he intuido que en ese espectáculo medieval hay una ciencia, una cultura más o menos interesante y, si uno es tan ignoto como yo en la materia, después de leer este libro sin duda mejorará su percepción a ese respecto.Ahora bien, es cierto que hay partes pintorescas dónde dan ganas de otorgarle mejor valoración, pero también lo es que las páginas aburridas son multitud.
totally awesome. i want to go to mexico or spain again as soon as possible.
one of my favorite books about God.
It is not the sweating, dry-mouthed fear of the nineteen-year-old boy who cannot kill properly having been too frightened of it with big bulls ever to take the chances necessary to attempt it in order to learn to dominate it properly and so is sick afraid of the horn.
It is a cold-blooded gypsy defrauding of the public by the most shameless, anger-arousing obtainer of money under false pretences, that ever went into a bull ring."This is quite splendid in its way, with wonderful phraseology - "dry-mouthed fear", "sick afraid of the horn", "cold-blooded gypsy defrauding of the public", "obtainer of money under false pretences".
Actual rating 3.4As far as non-fiction writing goes, this is probably the best piece I’ve read so far.
I’ve still got a ton of Jane Didion to read, but this is going to take some beating.
Hemmingway takes you through (what I imagine) is every nook and cranny there is to do with bullfighting.
Coming into this with basically no knowledge of the ‘sport’, and a pretty disfavour-able opinion on it, I feel like I could hold my own in most conversations now.
I still don’t agree with bullfighting personally, but I have a much better understanding of why so many are so passionate about it.
Vintage Hemingway in which he explores the history, pageantry, art, and culture of bullfighting. He includes information of several matadors and discusses some of the brutality of the sport. It does give a foundation for understanding the event.
Lest pga. research. Hatet den litt. Den er utdatert og monoton og macho.
Kenneth Lynn, one of Hemingway’s biographers, wrote in his 1987 Hemingway: “While the side remarks he makes about the art of writing are indispensable to any reader interested in modern literature, his tauromachian erudition is a bore, his tough-guy posturing an embarrassment, and his cutting comments about fellow writers by and large unamusing.”Those are severe remarks about the book as late as 1987 from a serious student of Hemingway.
Hemingway’s work on bullfighting was unique at the time of its publication: there was nothing as complete and entertaining in English to describe one thread of the Spanish fabric.
to be a book about bullfighting, but it's really a self- and critic-mocking books about life and performance, and where the two coincide to create art.The highlight of the book for me revolves around the "old woman," a character that Hemingway creates in the midst of this 'non-fiction' book to stand in place of the bullfighting amateur to whom he may impart his wisdom on bulls, bullfights and bullfighters (and the various venereal disease to which they are prone).
To have seen over three hundred bulls (at another point he counts it as 1500) die, Hemingway certainly was drawn to the spectacle of such man-against-beast confrontations in which the bravery of both was so tested as to provide for, at its highest manifestation, the description of having been 'very emotional'.A matador's cuadrilla consists of two picadors on horses, four banderilleros with long barbed sticks and then himself, armed with cape, muleta and swords.
