https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8683812-the-paris-wife
Several lessons to be learned from Ernest Hemingway's first wife on how he got his second one:1) If you can't be sweet and submissive at least be lively and rich.2) If you still have post-pregnancy weight from a baby your husband didn't really want and have to stay in to look after it, then don't let the lively and rich (and better-dressed) woman come on holiday with you.
(view spoiler)[ Like the part where the other woman gets in bed with them and Hadley just lies there while her husband makes love to his mistress.
This isn't a romance novel, but possibly the most romantic book I've ever read--not only in Hadley and Ernest's love, but in Paris, and the sweeping scope of the novel, the lavishness, the beauty of language and description and location, of each event, each chapter of their love affair.
I'm glad that Hadley lived a long and full life, despite the wild years of drinking and smoking and cavorting around Paris with her artist husband.
I've never been a fan of fictionalized works of authors' lives, and the fact that The Paris Wife recounts my favourite author's life during the writing of my favourite book of all time, The Sun Also Rises, antagonized the hell out of me.
It seems obvious to me now, as I write it, but it wasn't at all obvious to me while I was reading.It is beautiful the way McLain loves her subjects.
I wanted to come on here and thrash it and Paula McLain.
ARC won on Goodreads GiveawayMaybe a reader has to be a Hemingway fan to enjoy this book, but I've sometimes found the artist interesting even if I don't give a fig for their art.
It didn't seem worth the time and effort to continue.It's a straightforward novelization of Hadley Hemingway's life with Ernest.
I didn't know what Hadley looked like (who can keep track of all those wives?), and it's not until quite a ways into the book that we're told of her facial features and hairstyle.
It's as if the author assumes the reader is already right there beside her in the Hemingway knowledge and love.
Dear Hadley Richardson,I will admit that having just finished this historical novel about your marriage to Ernest Hemingway, I have now googled you and read a wikipedia article about your life.
I am happy to read that you apparently lived happily ever after with your second husband out of the limelight, and died an old woman at the age of 87.But I just have to say, Hadley, when you were asleep naked in bed with your husband Ernest, and Pauline crawled into his side of the bed with him, why in the hell did you pretend to be asleep?!?
I also remember seeing photographs of the grizzly author with his white hair and beard, wearing glasses and a very serious expression on his face, and I remember feeling so sad because his genius was so short-lived.Reading “The Paris Wife” resurrected many of my feelings from so long ago and these were overlaid by the sadness in reading about the first early marriage between Ernest Hemingway and (Elizabeth) Hadley Richardson that was derailed so soon.
Not everyone partook in all substances, but there was definitely an element of self-immolation present in the creative world of the day that helped to generate mayhem in the majority of relationships.Hemingway, young as he was at the time, was influenced by all of it.
In the Paris Wife, Paula McLain evokes a fascinating history of Hemingway and his first wife, Hadley, much of it during their time in Paris when Hemingway was struggling to find the voice which would catapult him to literary success.
As interested as I was, I alternated between fascination and flinching.
While I’ve spent many hours reading novels by Ernest Hemingway, did I really want to be in the bedroom with Hemingway and Hadley?
Or, as his first marriage fell apart, did I want to be in the bedroom with Hemingway and Pauline?
3 stars only because I didn't know much about them, so I learned some things.To me, this book felt flat.Like a travel diary with lots of name dropping.We went _____, we met _____. I didn't really feel for Hadley.I didn't really feel for young Ernest.She lost him to another woman.She was better off anyway.Favorite:In the epilogue, Hadley, who's moved on with her life, described him as an "enigma - fine and strong and weak and cruel. An incomparable friend and a Sonofabitch".
It is the touching and heartbreaking story of the love affair and marriage of literature’s original “bad boy” Ernest Hemingway and his first wife, Hadley Richardson Hemingway.Following a whirlwind courtship and wedding , the deeply in love couple sail to Paris where they become the golden couple in a lively and volatile group that includes Gertrude Stein, Ezra Pound and F.
She draws the twenty year old Hemingway as a handsome, magnetic, passionate, sensitive man full of dreams.This portrayal of their marriage is so tender, so poignant that is an utterly absorbing novel.
The beginning was alright, but after Hadley and Ernest get married I lost interest.
Now that I think about it I don't know if she was just a product of the times- old fashioned and hell bent on staying married even though your husband is a complete prick- or just really that pathetic?
Ernest was sort of a self absorbed, vain, asshole who was a terrible husband too, so I didn't get a warm fuzzy feeling about either of the protagonists for that matter.
I knew that Hadley and Ernest eventually get a divorce and of his suicide so the ending was of no shock to me.
If nothing else, she deserves a medal for putting up with Ernest Hemingway's shit for so many years, and for going on to live a long and happy life after she left him.
But the unfortunate truth, a truth that Paula McLain's book cannot escape, is that Hadley Hemingway's life did not need its own novel.
But once the Hemingways move to Paris and Ernest's career starts taking off, that chemistry and that connection disappears, and we're left with a book about a woman who stood on the sidewalk and waved as a parade of famous people walked through her life.The biggest problem was Hadley herself.
The book chronicles the Hemingways’ bohemian lifestyle in Paris as Hadley is exposed to fast life of the Jazz Age.With supporting characters of great American expatriates like Gertrude Stein, Ezra Pound, Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald, and other literary greats, it’s hard for a classic book lover not to feel attached and excited as the story progresses.What I loved most about the story was that it felt less of a Hemingway biography and more of authentic story telling by Hadley.
A page turning novel! I dare a reader 'not' to go to the internet and look up more information on Hemingway. (other characters in the book). How could you not? This history is fascinating! (and Hemingway was not 'the most' likeable human being on the planet)>>>> talented, yes.... "Giving & Caring" for others??? hm??? ........not so much! Awwwwwww, and don't we all know at least one talented person in our lives with this type of 'character-flaw'?/! lol
Too...you get the idea.BUT (and it's a big but here, like Sir-Mix-A-Lot big), I am FASCINATED by Hemingway the author.
I have to say, "The Paris Wife" only made me that much MORE fascinated.
In it, Paula McLain does an excellent job of taking her readers back to 1920s Paris, to the days of Hemingway's early career, through the eyes of his first (and some might say favorite) wife (he had 4!), Hadley Richardson.
Hemingway (along with other legends, like Picasso) is one such artist and "The Paris Wife" does little to disprove the idea.
The end of this book tore my heart to pieces.
I love Hadley, she is such a magnificent woman who was an absolute gem in her time and reminds me of so many women who gave up the best for their husbands during their worst times and then only for their man to leave.
It's no secret Hem was a lover of many, but I think truly he loved Hadley the most.
Their love was pure and real.
This book was beautifully written if not a bit slow at the beginning.
Great lovers.
Ah what a book!
There was something so authentic about Hadley's voice, the way she described the circumstances of meeting Ernest Hemingway, of being drawn to him—and vice versa—never knowing how their lives would entwine and separate again.
Hadley was his life, but he did not put her in that book, though the rest of the gang who traveled to Spain had their lives immortalized, for better or for worse.
It feels as if she breathed in the essence of Hadley and Ernest and let it flow out through her fingertips as she created an indelible, moving portrait of love, talent, disenchantment and heartache.
I loved every minute of this book and look forward to reading it again.
I figured I'd keep reading because it must get better, and I spent time in Cuba and toured Hemingway's home and favorite bars and now somehow feel closer to him.
I have been sadly disappointed in the book, however, and committed to finishing the book to figure out what I don't like about it.While I enjoy the story of Ernest Hemingway and the socio-historic context, I don't feel connected to him or Hadley.
The narration, while from Hadley's perspective, is oddly objective-- there are no emotions, there is no warmth in the writing and therefore in the relationship there is no feeling involved.
Together we made everything and then we busted it apart again.”Paula McLain has created a very entertaining, atmospheric novel depicting the lives of a young, up-and-coming writer, Ernest Hemingway, and his first wife and perhaps love of his life, Hadley Richardson.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading about this celebrated but somehow ill-fated couple and how they met, fell in love, and made a life for themselves in the post-war world of 1920’s Paris.
The birth of her son, fondly called Bumby, was really a turning point for Hadley, and I was happy for her.
It certainly had me from the very first line: "Though I often looked for one, I finally had to admit that there could be no cure for Paris."It feels slightly surreal to be reading a book about a woman called Hadley and a man called Ernest - never quite being able to forget that "Ernest" is Ernest Hemingway, one of my favorite authors.
That he had died but wasn't dead any more." Hadley is the one who sees Ernest at his best and worst and everything in between: "He loved and needed praise.
Fascinating historical novel about Ernest Hemingway and his first wife (of four) Hadley Richardson.
I didn't know much about Hemingway, their social circle of artists/writers (including F.
This is partly a love story, but cannot be read for that, or one would walk away disappointed.
As with most(?) brilliant creators, Hemingway was egotistical and loved his work above all else.
Hadley Richardson was too weak for my liking, but her story comes around in the end (the epilogue brought me needed closure).
Besides being a fascinating story, the book touched on so many issues that would make for a prime discussion.
And it’s a persuasively sympathetic view of Hadley, a kind of victim who manages to recover, but permanently damaged as so many were by Ernest.As MacLain has it, Hadley is a product of another time and place, who is swept off her feet by the dashing gorgeous ambitious man 8 years her junior, who REALLY loves and supports him, and who has her husband of five years stolen from her by a rich heiress, Pauline Pfeiffer (who is herself dumped by Hem six years later) who barged into their lives, attempted a threesome arrangement with them that other famous couples seemed to tolerate, something Hadley eventually couldn’t handle.
It is difficult for the modern reader to reconcile how that lifestyle was possible and not at least a bit surprising to Hadley, who though she grew up comfortably, first got her passport to go to Paris with Hemingway.Second, while Hadley is a textured and interesting character, she isn't overly introspective.
Perhaps the most interesting bit about her in the book was the young bull fighter who Hem said was in love with her.
His reaction made me believe that there might be something more beautiful, more interesting, or more charismatic than the fictional Hadley had described.
This novel is written in the first person narrative of Hadley Richardson, the first wife of Ernest Hemingway.
Just beginning his life as a writer, 21yr old Ernest is fresh back from the war, self possessed and vibrant but, as he will later reveal to Hadley, now carrying a few battle scars around in his head.
But it is The Paris Wife which has made me want to eager to read more about Hadley Richardson.
I now want to read Hadley,: The First Mrs. Hemingway by Alice Sokoloff and Paris Without End: The True Story of Hemingway's First Wife by Gioia Diliberto; two books McLain mentions.
[I want to thank a reader with comments, below, who helped me clarify my judgment so that I could add that key sentence to this review.]Having read everything by and about Hemingway, I turned to this fictionalized memoir by his first wife, Hadley, ready for a repeat of Ellis Avery's readable novel about the same period, The Last Nude, which I had enjoyed much more than expected.
Naturally, I was expecting something that could hold its own against A Moveable Feast which I highly recommend.Ernest and Hadley met in Chicago after WWI, married and moved to Paris, where they lived the famously poor and glamorous life Hemingway recalls in great detail in his most entertaining book, A Moveable Feast.
Her success in her second marriage is its own form of revenge.The following is a short review from PageADay's Book Lover's Calendar for April 27-28, 2013:For fans of Nancy Horan’s Loving Frank, here is another novel that imagines the life of a woman who had a greater influence than history might have fully acknowledged.
, by Paula McLain (Random House, 2011)The following is a short review from PageADay's Book Lover's Calendar for December 26, 2013:Hadley Richardson was living a quiet life in Chicago, and at 28 years old, she had basically tossed all hopes of love out the window.
I probably would have passed it by if I had not, several months after its debut, impulsively picket up a copy of The Old Man and the Sea on Barnes and Noble’s discount table.When I first heard the review of The Paris Wife on NPR on March 1 2011, Hemingway and his works were distant encounters during my teen years in the 1950s.
There were other books on my to-read list.So in August, on merely a whim, I read The Old Man and the Sea. That novel led me to re-read The Sun Also Rises and For Whom the Bell Tolls and to read for the first time Farewell to Arms and A Moveable Feast.
The book is called The Paris Wife because they spent most of their time together living in Paris.Unfortunately, their time together was not all that long, as Ernest being the bastard that he was, had an affair about 4 years into their marriage and ended up divorcing Hadley to marry wife number two.
Hadley, on the other hand, married again and stayed married to her second husband for 40 years, until he died, and lived to the ripe old age of 89 herself.Although this is a work of fiction, the historical details are as accurate as possible, and if, like me, you like reading about the "Lost Generation" literary scene in Paris in the 1920s and 1930s, you should really enjoy this book.
He became like the masterful torero whom he loved so much, flirting with death, trying to control death, which he did in the end, with the shot from a gun.Dear beautiful Hadley Hemingway, first wife, true love, mother of his first son.
I almost got into the mind of the genius, Ernest Hemingway.
I was almost to see, tho not fully understand, what it would be like to be married to someone whose total devotion was to his talent.
I even almost (almost..) grew to understand why Hemingway was such a fan of bullfighting.
At the end of Ernest Hemingway's memoir, A Moveable Feast , he writes of his first wife, Hadley Richardson, "I wish I had died before I loved anyone but her." After their divorce, Hemingway goes on to have three more wives, each one standing in the shadows, waiting for him to dissolve his present vows.
This is the story of the woman that loved him before he was famous.Paula McLain researched their biographies, letters, and Hemingway's novels, culling the material to imagine a credible story of their charmed and battered marriage in Paris, from 1921-1926.
This is a very confounding novel to write about. Maybe it was intentionally dull for the first three quarters. It eventually achieved a level of conviction as the marriage between Hadley and Ernest Hemingway began to tank. It's as if Hadley couldn't reflect on her married life until it was lost to her.  It was like reading two separate books. The first part is filled with stilted prose and the daily drivel of everyday life. It isn't until she and Hemingway return to Spain- the inspiration for Th
It eventually achieved a level of conviction as the marriage between Hadley and Ernest Hemingway began to tank.
It's as if Hadley couldn't reflect on her married life until it was lost to her.
It was like reading two separate books.
It isn't until she and Hemingway return to Spain- the inspiration for The Sun Also Rises-that Hadley begins to speak in her own voice.
From then on the story shifts its focus from chronicling what they ate, drank and wore and begins to examine the complexity of their marriage, offering some insights into their characters.
