https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10441.The_Memory_Keeper_s_Daughter
As for David and his photography, the title "Memory Keeper" would've been more poignant if, say, David had kept his photography a private thing, albums filled with desperately orchestrated scenes of 'happy' family moments that never were; instead, the author chose another Steele-worthy plot of turning him into a detached, semi-pro photo artist with some high-concept obsession with linking anatomy with nature scenes.
David just happens to stumble upon some pregnant homeless chick in his abandoned childhood home who's about Phoebe's age, and after she takes him prisoner and he confesses his precious sins to her, he basically adopts her like a neurotypical stand-in for the broken daughter he gave away?
For example, consider this scene, where the teenage son of the protagonists is rebelling against his dysfunctional family relationships by - how original - smoking pot:In the living room, Duke was still lying with an arm over his face.
He was thirsty like a desert, like a ten-mile run, and he carried a half gallon of milk back with him to the living room, drinking straight from the jug and then passing it to Duke.
The year is 1964, when such children are regularly institutionalized - after all, babies like this rarely survive long anyway, and even if they do, their quality of life is marginal at best.As a doctor, David Henry knows his daughters prognosis full well, and rather than force his young wife Norah to deal with such a tragedy, he makes a snap decision to try and protect her from a lifetime of unspeakable grief.
But it had a good title, a beautiful, mysterious cover, and lots of people are reading it.
Well, duh.The main characters, except Caroline, are wholly unlikeable.The writing is beyond tolerable; my eyes rolled so often they hurt.Edwards clearly has "The Writer's Guide to Trite" and "The Big Book of Cliches" on her reference shelf.
Let me guess, Edwards has never been there, right?And note to author: You don't know your ass from a hole in the ground about photography.
"Photography is about secrets" she writes.
At least that will be more pleasurable than reading this book.
Man I hated this book- the plot had some great potential, but instead you got to witness one scene of frustrated people not knowing how to deal with their emotions after another.
Then we progress to 60 pages of a new hell: son- "dad, I love music, you don't know who I am!" father "son, don't limit yourself to only this option" once again, fine as a single scene, but we have to endure it again and AGAIN.
The juxtaposition of physical characteristics ascribed to inanimate objects, and the fusion of opposites added texture to the story.Going along with that, she used the wind as a metaphor-unrest, loneliness, loss, guilt, shame, it spoke a different language to each of the characters and manifested itself in interesting ways.
I realize that in some cases this can be construed as "dragging, boring, or slow" but Edwards used such beautiful, interesting language to describe those things, that it made the story come alive for me, and I felt like I was a participant observer, rather than just an observer.4.
At first I couldn’t pinpoint exactly why I was not enjoying a book that sounded as though it would be ‘my kind of book’ in every way, but the more I read and the more I thought about it, the more reasons emerged. From the beginning of the novel there were little details that bothered me. The plot often felt contrived, as pieces fell together too nicely. Of course life is crazy and there is always the possibility of the little pieces falling in the most peculiar way, but when all of your characte
Bree is the young, free-loving free-spirit who is thus almost a danger to Norah’s thoughts on life – and that is what she remains, even when older and diagnosed with cancer (although Norah does come to appreciate her).
Norah, whose life unravels for a bit after she thinks her daughter has died, drinks too much and then begins having affairs, and this is who she remains for most of the novel.
I know that what happened at the birth of the babies was tragic and life changing but I felt as though it was a bit contrived that it drove every emotion and interaction afterwards for the remainder of the characters’ lives.
There's still time to quit reading!" Really, it's one of those books that has an interesting premise/situation, but doesn't go anywhere.
The interesting premise is this: a couple has twins and the father sneaks away with the one twin who has Downs Syndrome.
The mother doesn't know about this baby and it's raised by the father's coworker.
The author drags you through the book, dangling the moment that the mother finds out about her daughter in front of you.
If this had been an actual good, daring book, it would have started at the point where the mother finds out about her long-lost daughter.
Still, the things that were going on kept nagging at me and making me uneasy in a way that I don't think were intended to make me uneasy.I began to care less and less about the characters, but stayed with the book because it was interesting to see where it went and I had already invested so much time in reading it.
I didn't really care about any of the characters very much in the end, if at all, and I think that's what really soured me on this book.
I have looked forward to reading it for so long and was expecting great things based on all the praise-worthy reviews on the book jacket.
What the author did really well was humanizing Dr. David Henry because reading the back of the novel i thought he was a monster.
Because the one question i wanted answered -- what would possess a man to do such a horrible thing as to not only give away his newborn daughter but then lie about her death?
The story unfolds over 25 years - two families, unknowingly bound by the fateful decision made long ago.Let me start off by saying, this book is not for the faint of heart.
Dr. Henry and his wife Norah live a life teeming with grief; a heavy secret, unbeknownst to Norah, settles between them and grows ever larger as the years go by.
It's a story I might not have understood a few years ago.
Kim Edwards' storytelling is seamless; one chapter melting perfectly into the next, even if they were five or ten years apart.This story won't be for everyone, but it's one I won't forget anytime soon.
Dark Trees in the HeartThe Memory Keeper's Daughter is a story about a secret--a terrible, life-altering secret running central to the story and in the lives of the characters.
This sets the stage for the terrible secret David must live with and the consequences it has on his family.It's called The Memory Keeper's Daughter because David takes up photography and becomes obsessed with the process.
Diving into his hobby, which ultimately brings notoriety to him, he is able to take his mind off his secret, and yet at the same time, focus on the life his lost daughter leads away from him.
Books like this make me mad.
I thought this story was very upper-middle class white suburbia.
There were 2 characters I could relate to, and 3/4 of the book was spent on characters that I felt were wasting away in the "perfect" suburbia of the 60's.
If these titles don't irritate you like they irritate me, then you might read her work.
If you find these annoying like I do, read no further.
And finally, I think this review is disgruntled merely because I am sad that I wasted time reading this instead of something worthwhile.
It’s like the Iowa Writer’s Workshop deliberately teaches its students to dream up plots worthy of an Oprah’s Book Club Selection.
We also understand symbolism: early on, there is a scene where the doctor’s wife destroys a wasp nest to prove to herself that she is capable and able to handle things herself without having the doctor protect her and control her – and yet the author has to point that out to the reader, that the wife felt capable and felt like she didn’t need to be protected any longer.
A beautiful and moving story about a secret kept for 25 years and the effects on the people involved. I really enjoyed this one. I knew the secret world come out eventually, I just had that feeling that it would, but I love how the writer moved each of the characters through the story.
At that same time, those pages are suddenly filled with inconsistencies (David clearly states he burnt all the letters, but somehow we're supposed to believe that he somehow missed some, b/c Paul and Norah find them later -- David was too meticulous for that), surprising coincidences (Caroline just happens to show up -- for NO apparent reason -- just as Norah is "discovering" about David chronicled little girl's lives), and events with no motivation (why did Caroline suddenly show up -- saying "oh I'm glad I caught you" (my words, not verbatim) when she finds out that Norah's just about to move -- it could have been tied to David's death, to Phoebe moving out or getting married, but instead we're given absolutely NO motivation).
This book would have been better if they would have cut out all of the descriptions that were used. Too much "The wind is blowing, it was cold, etc". I wanted the author to get to the point already. Other than that a very sad story about the love between a husband and wife and the secrets that are kept between them. Although I enjoyed the book it was just ok because of all the extra that was there.
But she was more interested in being poetic and symbolic - which is only good if it contributes to great storytelling.I was expecting to love the wife and feel emotionally connected to her throughout the book since she has been deceived, grieving for a dead daughter that did not really die.
The poor excuse of feeling alienated or growing apart emotionally from her husband just doesn't cut it for me.The son was just not interesting to me.
And his wife to end up a self-righteous adulterer?
3.5 StarsA well-written and very emotional read.
It took me a little longer than usual to get into the book.
I did find it could be overly detailed at times that weren't especially important to the story.
I am usually able to tune everything out when I am into a really good book.
There was a lot of emotion along with many shocking and dramatic events.
In the end I found it to be a thought provoking good read that would likely have been even better if it had been shorter and/or more condensed.
Although I really liked this book, I'm not sure I would openly recommend it to people for fear of them coming back and saying, "You liked THAT?" So there, I warned you, and if you decide to read it, you can't blame me!The story starts in 1964 with a husband, who is a doctor, delivering his own wife's baby late on a snowy night at his clinic, because they couldn't make it to the hospital in the snow storm.
And of how society's view of grief, of what is socially acceptable, and of Down's syndrome has shifted over the decades.The author wove many levels of detail and imagery into the book, which was a joy to read.
The story was depressing, but the author's depth and talent was a joy to read.
Some moments in our lives are crossroads, moments where the course of our lives is shaped. Sometimes the deviation is minor, and sometimes it is life-altering. Such are the forces that form the first chapter of Kim Edwards’ novel, The Memory Keeper’s Daughter. A dreadful snowstorm forces Dr. David Henry to deliver his first child, which to his surprise turns out to be twins. The first is a perfect son, ideal in all ways. But the second child has Down’s syndrome. In a moment that changed and def
A dreadful snowstorm forces Dr. David Henry to deliver his first child, which to his surprise turns out to be twins.
Instead, she takes the child away and raises her as her own.
Their deceptions impact their son, who begins erecting his own walls.
Only years later does he come to realize that much of his life was spent in observation rather than active participation.
After several years, she recognizes that she was not a passive victim but an active accomplice in the deception.
The Memory Keeper’s Daughter is a tale of deception and treachery, but it is also a story of walls and barriers.
I believe that was the point of the novel entirely, we cannot label the doctor who gave away his child as "bad" because his troubled past was revealed and he was genuinely trying to do good, and it was clearly unfolding throughout the progression of the story that he began to regret his once-confident choice, but felt as though he had to remain stable and confident with his choices, which ended up making him a distant husband and individual.
The entire novel was believable, it had no "cheesy" or "eye-roll" moments like many chick-lit/adult fiction books often do.
This should be a great book for discussion at book club. Thought provoking and entertaining.
A book in which although there is much music and songs, the sound that remains with you at the end is of water dripping from the faucet.
And it was not till the end of the book when David finally repairs the faucet in Norah's house that I realize its significance.
David is THE memory keeper so it is only expected that we would get glimpses into his past, but the author overdoes it at times.
And the middle of the book is repetitive with the same descriptions of Norah's anguish and David's, again, memory.
And this book definitely does that.In all, it was a good one time read.
Caroline instead takes the baby to another city and raises her as her own child, while Norah and Paul’s lives become poisoned by thinking about the daughter and sister they thought was lost, and David wanders into a hell of his own making as the members of his family become alienated, while at the same time we learn more about his past and come to an understanding of what drove him to do this.Kim Edwards is a marvelous story-teller.
Just adding grey shades to characters does not make them realistic.
There are so many discrepancies (Norah cheating, her reaction to the revelation, David’s actions) in their behavior and Caroline remains the only well fleshed out character.
Their motivations, their actions remain a mystery not only to each other but the readers too.
At the end of the day, there was just too many flaws, and loses ends, too detailed description of dust motes while feelings remain unexplored, it was supposed to move me but it just left me with an urge to hurl the book across the room.
THe author does not seem to know what the book is about.
The book begins with the birth of twins.
One child is fine, the other he diagnoses immediately as having Downs (I think it harder to diagnose than was presented).
He immediately decides to get rid of the Down's child by telling the nurse to take it to an insitution.
I felt that the author must have first hand knowledge of Down's children and also of loss.
There is also much that verges on hokey - the main character it turns out "lost" his last name in a mix up while applying for college.
Overall, skip this book.
A doctor (David) delivers his own child in a snowstorm only to discover that his wife (Norah) had twins.
Thinking he was making the best choice for his family, he asks his nurse to take the baby to an institution.
Dr. and the Mrs. have their son, the nurse has a daughter (which she always wanted) and no scary institution for the poor baby.
The parts with Caroline and Phoebe (nurse and daughter respectively) are the most enjoyable, because they feel the least contrived.It all ends up in a bed of roses, of course, because this book is a giant cliche.
I kept thinking something was going to happen & it never seemed to happen.
Around the very end of the book, it finally began to pick up pace a little, but by then I was just ready for it to be over, that I really didn't care what the outcome was.I felt bad for Norah because David kept such a HUGE secret from her, but I also felt like Norah needed to get over herself & let David in to comfort her.
I didn't like David's decision but felt sorry for him at the end.
I enjoyed this story, but did not feel as connected to the characters as much as I thought I should have, especially given the storyline, which I think also should have grabbed me more.
A family is forever changed at the birth of twins, after a father delivers them on a blistery cold and wintery night.
The choice he makes at the birth has many many ramifications for everyone involved.
The author did a fantastic job of describing the nuances of Down Syndrome, the sweet personality and the special characteristics, I especially enjoyed this aspect of the story.
