https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34570.Team_Yankee
This book was written around the time I was a "19 Echo," that is an armored crewman.
"GUNNER-SABO-TANK!" said a lot in those three words; of course you need to read the book to understand.
Just as many today have no idea how close we were to war during the Cuban Missile Crisis they have no idea how real the threat was of a Russian/Warsaw Pact invasion of western Europe was back then, hence the development of the Neutron bomb.
It makes exciting reading from start to finish, even the part about the military dependents who were caught up in the war zone.
It is sort of like the first time I climbed inside a tank.
Harold Coyle's first novel, and one of his best. This follows a mechanized infantry company in action during the fictional stages of World War III in central Germany during 1985. A good group of characters that have a range of physical and emotional experiences. His narrative is much more balanced between technicial military details and character development. Later books dwell in more detail on the people than the military aspects of events.
Team Yankee is a speculative fiction novel written in 1987 by Harold Coyle, then a major in the United States Army, whose subject is the actions of a company-sized armor unit of the United States Army in the World War III scenario as depicted by General Sir John Hackett in his novel, The Third World War. General Hackett's scenario takes place in 1985; Coyle never specifies the year, but it is assumed to take place in the late 1980s.Coyle paints a realistic, gritty and non-patronizing portrait of both American and Russian tank men and soldiers.
Maybe its time to buy the hardback -- the story is sure worth it!
When I was a teenager I liked reading military fiction about World War III.
Harold Coyle's "Team Yankee" is one of the titles I have always remembered.
It's about an American tank team in Germany when WWIII breaks out.
There's some hints as to why the conflict has kicked off but if you want a book about that read "Cardinal of the Kremlin".
The action is sudden and brutal.It's something of a spiritual successor to Elstob's "Warriors for the Working Day".I don't read much military fiction anymore but back in the late 80s I thought this book rocked.
The war that never happened...but seemed ready to for 30 plus years. East Germany and West Germany spark the action. This brings about the confrontation that was long feared, the United States vs. the Soviet Union WWIII. Again (I've said this before about other books) the phrase 'I enjoyed it" seems inappropriate in a novel about WWIII. We see the "war" fought from platoon level and follow the soldiers in said platoon. If you like techno-thrillers, action, military fiction or speculative works like alternate history then this is a good one.I can recommend it.
I'm an old tanker, and I love this book. Very down to earth from the gun-sight point of view, especially since I was in that exact same position while stationed in Germany back in the 80's.Like almost all of Coyle's writing except some of his newer work. It started getting too big and just seems to lose touch with 'the soldier's' war.
The first and the best cause I knew what I faced in Europe and the civilians in the states didn't.
This is typical early Coyle where a typical US Army training exercise is put into the context of a real war.
Sword Point was NTC and Bright Star was, well, Bright Star.
As an honest to god M1 tanker, this book traveled with me on every field problem or deployment.
Sword Point, when Coyle tries to get overly creative and starts to go down hill.
Best part of this book is the "shop talk" and language used is real, not some Hollywood writers idea of how soldiers talk.
If you are an M1 tanker and haven't read this, shame on you.
A tense and grinding novel - now outdated, of course - about a Warsaw Pact blitz against western Europe, following the experiences of an American Army tank unit.
More realistic and less glamorized and Rambo-ized than most military fiction; you get the feeling that this author has actually spent some time being cold, wet, hungry, tired, dirty, and scared.
Superior to Tom Clancy's stuff, IMHO, for two reasons, equally important - the characters are more rounded and developed, and there's a more accurate portrait of the way things go wrong amid the fog and friction of war - things often go wrong.
Written by a VMI grad ... one of the best bits of mordern armored warfare ever written; on par with Red Storm Rising, if not better than.
Harold Coyle, an Army veteran himself, thoroughly grounds his writing in the doctrine and real world thinking of the US military from the time period.
The book's other aspects make it into a more well-rounded novel about the military experience in WWIII.
Team Yankee remains a war novel, but these other aspects help to make the book more well rounded.
My only criticism is that I sometimes found the book's protagonist and Yankee Team's leader, CPT Bannon, a bit immature.
One could probably attribute much of this to the combat stress Bannon endures throughout the book, but I found his immaturity just a little to great at times.
Fun cold war readIt was a good and engaging book despite a few typos. Reminded me of growing up in the cold war in the 80s. Not a balanced book to be sure but a fun read.
A WWIII novel that didn't age well. Plus, writing style leaves much to be desired. Author obviously knows his way around tanks, AFVs and combat organization. Writing, less so. Too much tell, too little show.
1st book that I read of Mr. Coyles.I was a tank Cmdr in Schweinfurt, FRG 2d Plt, Co. D, 3/64th Armor, 1st Bde, 3d ID.WoW!Just like what I thought it would be to fight the Russians.
A bit dated by now, since it was written at the height of the Cold War, but still a really good piece of military fiction.
One of my favorite books of all time.
An amazing work of military fiction. Coyle sets the standard for military based fiction.
Great read. Fast paced and full of action.
One of the best works of fiction ever written about armored combat.
One of my all-time favorite books! Full of grit, guts, and heart.
I've read it multiple times and have always enjoyed it.
Wow! I recall being impressed by this account of ground combat from a tanker grunt p.o.v.
What so many books try to do, but fail! Superb story of modern warfare.
I'm a sucker for Cold War gone Hot novels.
Its a book of moments and I think if it'd stayed true to maintaining a singular, narrow viewpoint it with a little background to the various characters it could have really shined, not just as a military romp, but as a full story.
But instead, it walks an uncomfortable middle ground of occasionally giving views to other major groups/characters, but shies away from giving any extra depth and leaving awkward loose ends.
Telah ada beberapa pengarang dan tajuk novel yang turut ditulis dengan menjadikan Perang Dunia Ketiga antara Amerika Syarikat (bersama NATO,North Atlantic Treaty Organization) menentang Kesatuan Soviet (dengan Pakatan Warsaw) sebagai latar belakang atau tema utama penceritaan.
Beliau cuba memaparkan kepada pembaca sisi Perang Dunia Ketiga ini melalui kaca mata atau pengalaman yang dilalui melalui watak Kapten Sean Bannon dan Team Yankee yang dipimpinnya.
Pasukan yang bersaiz seperti Team Yankee tidak mustahil mampu memainkan peranan yang sangat penting dan kritikal untuk menentukan menang atau kalahnya di antara pihak-pihak yang bertelagah.
I'm referring to combat using current gear in plausible war scenarios.
These stories, IMHO, are best left to those with the know-how.Bond's early books focused on hot spots around the world that could erupt - and that made them great.
Indeed, when I was in the USAF and stationed in West Germany (at the time, there were two Germanys!), that very scenario was presented to new arrivals as the most likely military event to occur during our deployment.
Since I enjoy future fictional war scenarios, this book starts off with a star for just that.
Add a couple more for decent writing and knowledge of the gear.
This story is about a small group of tanks fighting against the Russians during the 3rd world war.
It focuses on the small team in charge of is group of tanks (Team Yankee) and the battles they engage in.
The scope is small, and though you know there's a world war happening out there you don't see it.
It's a gritty narrative that leaves you feeling you've actually engaged in the combat yourself.If this is consistent with how Harold Coyle writes, I'll be reading many more of his books.
I normally don't right review for books, even the ones that I like immensely. But this book just goes up and beyond that. Team Yankee is the cold war book and war book to read. It manages to capture the essence of modern combat and the effects on the soldier. As i was lead through the story, i felt the chills the soldiers did, the worries, and the excitement. This is one of my favorite war books, way better than Red Storm Rising, and I recommend it for anyone interested in the military, modern combat, and Tom Clancy.
This is a World War III scenario book from the perspective of a Tank Commander.
Coyle doesn't spend much time building it up, he has about a page and a half of press releases describing the escalation and them bam the war has started.
I didn't mind because the political side of the war is not what the book is about.It definitely reminds me of Red Storm Rising by Tom Clancy, but it is very different in the way it tells the story.
It follows the tank company through their various engagements and from what I have been told it is very accurate.Great book, and it is a pretty short read.
I was an M1A1 tanker, stationed in Germany, when this book was published. It was a straight punch in the gut, particularly some of the early parts—don't want to cause any major spoilers, but as tankers, (view spoiler)[there was little on the WP side of the border we truly feared, except WMDs (hide spoiler)]—but also reflects the determination and resolute certainty in our fellow soldiers that is common in the US Army.If you enjoy a good military story, this is one of the best.
