https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34273236-little-fires-everywhere
All her life, she had learned that passion, like fire, was a dangerous thing. It so easily went out of control. 4 1/2 stars. You should go into this book expecting what it is: a slow-moving character portrait filled with complex family dynamics and small-town politics. If you know what this is, like with Ng's Everything I Never Told You, and don't go into it expecting fast-pacing and high-octane drama, you will probably find this quiet read to be extremely engrossing and emotional.I have to be
You should go into this book expecting what it is: a slow-moving character portrait filled with complex family dynamics and small-town politics.
There's several stories going on in here, but the book begins with literal fires lighting up the Richardson household and the knowledge that the youngest daughter, Izzy, the wild card, has disappeared.
We see the poor artist, Mia, and her daughter, Pearl, move into town and the effect they have on all members of the Richardson family.
Or did Mrs. Richardson create what she most feared through her treatment of Izzy?Little Fires Everywhere is a great example of how small character dynamics can create a powerful and fascinating story.
*4.25 stars*Little Fires Everywhere is such an apt title for a novel that delves into the intricacies and angst that undoubtedly burns through some relationships—maybe none more so than mother and daughter.
A mother sacrificing any sense of stability for her daughter, in an attempt to chase her next inspiration, rubbed me the wrong way.
Initially, I wasn’t really sure what to make of her or her motives—was I reading more into things than I should?What binds these two very different women together is their teenage children who have their own fires burning between them and a custody battle that rocks their small town.
When Mia Warren and her fifteen year old daughter, Pearl rent a home from the Richardsons, a prominent Shaker Heights family – their lives will become intertwined in ways they never could have imagined.Mrs. Richardson liked to rent to people she felt were deserving of her help, people who may have had some tough turns in life.
But it won’t be long before the many differences between Mia and Mrs. Richardson cause a divide that will affect the two families in unimaginable ways.In some ways, I felt bad for Pearl as the nomadic life that her mother had them living would be hard on anyone, especially a teenage girl.
All of which is to say, if you’re going to write on this theme now, you should probably have something new to add to the conversation, or at least a unique way of expressing it.Little Fires Everywhere takes place in the planned community of Shaker Heights, where an artist named Mia and her teenage daughter Pearl move into a rental home after having lived a peripatetic existence since Pearl’s birth.
Mind you, these battle lines aren’t initially drawn by the characters, but by the author, who makes it clear that Mia is the moral center of the book.
I'm not sure I appreciated some of the stereotyping of this community.BUT ....here's a small flavor of the characters you'll spend time with: 'The Richardson's family': Bill is an attorney and drives a BMW SedanElena is a wife & mom.....
Seems fruity & shallow at times - but is an excellent student Trip - a junior - drives a jeep - loves sports - handsome -fit --and charming Moody - sophomore- rides a bike ( bless him) - most compassionate- very bright -introspective Izzy - Freshman- considered black sheep of the bunch - feels different than others in her family.
after several great books I've recently read, I can't say I'm 'wild' about it.
Dang!If this book does not get your brain churning, well, then you did read the same book I just did!This book is filled with so many scenarios with so many questions and no perfect answers.
Man, that would be a great title for this book!
. .It has been a long time since I remember reading a book where my mind and problem solving skills have been this challenged.
Every 15 minutes I found myself yelling at this book!
While I found much of the book simply beautiful, the plot—and one character—travel down a path that I found a little too far-fetched and irritating that it spoiled how I felt.To someone on the outside looking in, the Richardson family seems like the quintessential Shaker Heights, Ohio family—two successful and driven parents, four good-looking children, sure to follow in their parents' footsteps.
Suddenly she feels the need to find more about this mysterious woman who holds her family in her thrall, and Elena doesn't realize—or care, really—about what damage the truth may cause, for everyone."All her life, she had learned that passion, like fire, was a dangerous thing.
I thought that the custody dispute concerning “Oriental Barbie” was worth at least a star or two.A lot of the characters are clichéd.
The at-home Mr. Richardson could be a cardboard cutout with excellent earning skills.
Even if she were perfectly constructed, the story is still awfully scattered.My son heard part of the book while we were driving over the holidays.
I don’t believe he has any preternatural gifts as plot savant.
A lot of the story is pretty predictable.I have a quibble about that car.
It seems oddly out of place given the careful mathematics of Bebe’s poverty.P.S. I stand corrected my son says he is too a plot savant.
“Most of the time, everyone deserves more than one chance. We all do things we regret now and then. You just have to carry them with you.”  Never in my life have I read any book, any narrative, that cared  as deeply for all of its characters as this one did.  Little Fires Everywhere lives in the grey area, leaving it impossible not to be invested, impossible not to love every character and cry for every character and root for every character, despite all their flaws. I really struggle to chara
Izzy is a ridiculously relatable character for me personally mainly through her relationship with her mom.
And I think… her relationship with Izzy just felt so personal to me for that reason.
And maybe the degree to which this personally affected me is the most important part of all.There’s a scene within this book that has stuck with me since the beginning, in which the adoptive mother of the baby is asked how she plans to incorporate Chinese culture into the life of the baby, and she brings up “oriental rugs” and how she gives the baby rice.
When I read Celeste Ng's debut novel  Everything I Never Told You  in late 2014, I was smitten. Ng's writing was so beautiful, her characters so real, and the story so compelling. I instantly knew I would be reading whatever she put out next.Three years later and I'm happy to say that Ng has returned with just as stunning of a novel as her debut. Little Fires Everywhere is hands down one of the best books I've read this year; and just like its predecessor will be rising to the top of my yearly f
Little Fires Everywhere is hands down one of the best books I've read this year; and just like its predecessor will be rising to the top of my yearly favorites list.I don't want to say too much about this novel because with Ng's books, I've discovered, it's best to go in anticipating very little and being surprised along the way.
Because she is very good at surprises—and not the kind of plot twists you'll read in a thriller or spy novel; the kind of surprises that sneak up on you in real life and seem to tear your world apart.
It is a brilliantly written novel with intricate, rich and wholly vivid characters whose lives are so fully intertwined you can't help but read on in bewildered awe of how Celeste Ng created these characters.
The character of Izzy, Mrs. Richardson's daughter had me from the beginning (kind of like Hannah from Ms. Ng's Everything I Never Told You - which I also loved).
Little Fires Everywhere was a Traveling Sister Group Read and included Brenda, Norma, Jennifer, Holly, Melissa & Kendall.
Pearl moves with her itinerant artist mother, Mia, into a rental house owned by the Richardsons in Shaker Heights and becomes infatuated with this family, their house, their life style so different from her own and is mostly infatuated with three of the teenage siblings.
An awful thing happens to this family and we know what it is from the first sentence but I won't give it away.
Ng delves deep into her characters and you feel you know them inside and out even though it takes until the end to fully understand Elena and Izzy.
4.5 It's my first novel by Celeste Ng and even though Literary Fiction/Contemporary isn't my genre, I really enjoyed this one. I now have to pick up "Everything I Never Told You" which has been on my shelves for way too long!Would recommend if you're looking for a slow character driven book full of emotions!
At first glance, this book seems to be mostly about teenagers, but then it struck me that it’s really about parenting.
“When it came to Izzy, Mrs. Richardson was seldom calm, and for that matter, Izzy herself never was.” There are multiple storylines here, all equally fascinating.
It took a while for the book to truly grab me.
Not just the physical fire, but the fires that burn within the characters, especially the fire that ignited in Mrs. Richardson.
It’s interesting that the author refers to Mrs. Richardson by her formal name, whereas everyone else is called by their first name.
Metaphorically speaking, everyone has 'little fires' in their lives - events that begin as a small spark, and have the ability to transform into a raging inferno, changing lives for ever.Shaker Heights, Cleveland is an idyllic place to live, everything has been planned to create the perfect community, but it's residents are expected to live by its many rules and regulations.The Richardson's are quintessentially the kind of family who the community of Shaker Heights was built for.
Izzy isn't exactly a chip off the old block though, and will prove to be very disruptive.The Richardson's rent out an apartment to people they feel need a helping hand, and their latest tenants are Mia and her daughter Pearl.
She was my favorite character, has a better, closer bond with her daughter, Pearl, but mother's know, teenage daughter keep secrets too.
A friend of Mrs Richardson, is unable to have children, but is given an opportunity that may not be hers to take.What an absolutely perfect title this was, small fires trailing these characters in their actions, words and the things they keep hidden.
The different lifestyles, but always at heart is the question, "Nature vs.
nurture, does lifestyle matter if the love is strong?" Unbreakable bonds, forged in many different ways.
Intensely complex, multi layered, and intricately plotted Little Fires Everywhere is a profoundly complicated and jarring read about motherhood, freedom, and the human experience.  When unconventional artist Mia and her fifteen year old daughter, Pearl, move to Shaker Heights, Ohio their lives dramatically change. Of even great significance is their impact on the seemingly perfect Richardson family. On the surface, the Richardson’s seem to have it all--perfect house, perfect jobs, perfect child
Intensely complex, multi layered, and intricately plotted Little Fires Everywhere is a profoundly complicated and jarring read about motherhood, freedom, and the human experience.
When unconventional artist Mia and her fifteen year old daughter, Pearl, move to Shaker Heights, Ohio their lives dramatically change.
Told through the eyes of multiple characters, this is a slow burn read with fluid changes of POV.
While one of the main events occurs in the first chapter, it isn't until the end that one can fully understand the implications of "the little fires everywhere."Here’s the thing--when I first started reading this, I had a hard time connecting to the characters and the plot.
Gripe 3: Some other reviewers have already noted that they felt manipulated by the book, that it seemed clear that the author was yanking around the puppet strings in order to gesture toward whom the reader was supposed to like, dislike, and root for.
Then just as the smoke becomes a raging inferno, the story has gotten under your skin and you've inhaled more than you thought and instead of it going to your lungs, it aims straight for the heart.It's a story of relationships - Mother daughter ones.
It starts off with Mia and daughter, Pearl, who move to shaker heights which is an upscale suburban neighbourhood where life is both homogenous and idyllic.
Or what about decisions that are made in the heat of the moment that become life defining for a child, as regrettable as they may be, should a parent get a 2nd chance?
‘Perfection: that was the goal, and perhaps the Shakers had lived it so strongly it had seeped into the soil itself, feeding those who grew up there with a propensity to overachieve and a deep intolerance for flaws.’By contrast, Mrs. Richardson’s new tenants, Mia and her daughter, Pearl, live a free spirited, nomadic life.
‘Izzy had the heart of a radical, but she had the experience of a fourteen-year-old in the suburban Midwest.’One of the more interesting character studies is of Elena- mostly referred to as Mrs. Richardson, which I thought was a very clever way of hammering home a specific point.
I have a daughter and of course I am a daughter, so I do realize how complicated this relationship can be, even in a somewhat stable environment....The mothers in this book were all very different from one another, but the thing they had in common is that they all truly love their children....
this book really touched on quite a few issues, and I don’t want to mention them in this review, because I don’t want to ruin the journey for you, but it sure did make me think....
3.7 starsCeleste Ng’s writing style wasn’t super easy to read. I feel the need to stress that Little Fires Everywhere is not a fast-paced, easy to read suburban thriller. It’s a slow-paced novel of fiction that focuses on American suburbia and middle class ethics that often requires more attention when reading to make sure you pick up on every subtle detail. All the time I read this book, I have the sensation that it was a script of an Desperate Housewives. There are not housewife in the book, but the author style, was like that, like a feeling.
I felt so invested in the characters.Not at first.
Mia Warren, for instance, is extremely secretive.
Although, what I liked most about this book was actually the narration.
The characters slowly go from zero to eight/nine as the story progresses, but the narration held my attention for the entire reading time.
The characters do the talking and many points of view are provided so that we are not forced to feel a certain way.Even now, I’m not sure I could answer the question this book raises about the child in a definitive way.
It’s a slow book, that’s true.
‘all her life, she had learned that passion, like fire, was a dangerous thing. it so easily went out of control.’ i honestly wasnt expecting to enjoy this book. i didnt really like celeste ngs debut and i thought this was probably overhyped. but this is one of the few occasions where i am actually happy to admit i was wrong. i knew from the first chapter, where the title comes into play, that i was in for a real treat. if you dont know by now, i love when a book is so aptly named. sometimes tit
i honestly wasnt expecting to enjoy this book.
if you dont know by now, i love when a book is so aptly named.
sometimes titles can come across as lazy or appear as an afterthought, so there is nothing i love more than when a title is given some meaning and depth.
i love how this book explored so many themes - such as motherhood, race, friendship, community, children - each one a little fire that slowly burned into an explosion of a story.
i loved seeing her come to accept this idea and burn her own way, blazing a path of her own choosing.
I regret not reading it sooner.What happens when two characters with very different personalities converge?
On the other corner we have Mia Warren, an enigmatic, creative, single artist and her daughter Pearl who at the beginning of the story rented an apartment from Mrs. Richardson.Soon these two families start interacting and what follows is a journey you have to take by yourself.The story is told from different points of view and it alternates between the past and present.
Celeste Ng (pronounced "ing") has brilliantly written this book, everything is excellent from the characters to the writing.
It is one of the best novels I've read.
It finally dawned on me that Little Fires Everywhere inexplicably reminded me of a childhood favorite book called The Saturdays by Elizabeth Enright.
Both books feature families of four rambunctious kids and Celeste Ng writes in a confident, animated manner that is reminiscent of Elizabeth Enright's style.
Instead of starting out with a death as she did in Everything I Never Told You, this time Ng starts out with the mystery of who set the house afire and works back telling the story of tangled adult relationships and secret lives of teenagers.
The first chapter was amazing and I thought I was in for something special.There was a clear theme of ignorance in the "progressive" town of Shaker Heights that only outsiders and Izzy could see.
The reason I couldn't get into this book was that all the supporting characters felt a little thin.
Like they weren't actually people, they were just there to show how ignorant and selfish the people of Shaker Heights were.
I know there are people like them in the world.
I know why this book is so popular and it deserves the success it's had.I just couldn't get into it.
3.5 Stars. Celeste Ng certainly knows how to start a story! "Everyone in Shaker Heights was talking about it that summer: how Isabelle, the last of the Richardson children, had finally gone around the bend and burned the house down." The town was already on edge because of a controversial adoption case, but now the Richardsons' family drama has given them something new to talk about. What's going on behind closed doors in this perfect suburban community? How did they get to this point? But the p
There's also a recurrent attitude of entitlement: the feeling that those with more financial stability are more entitled to a child or Elena Richardson's entitlement to peoples' secrets and other compensation in exchange for her "charity." The progressive community members mean well, but they recoil when the work of righting injustice gets too messy or rowdy.
Elena Richardson is terrified that everything will spin out of control if things aren't done within the established order: "Rules existed for a reason: if you followed them, you would succeed; if you didn’t, you might burn the world to the ground." Elena fears an inferno, but maybe a clean slate is what her family and community need.
🔥 🏠 3.5 stars (rounded up). While beautifully written, emotional and intense -   Little Fires Everywhere   didn't blow me away as much as I expected it would. It was a slow-burn book that required your investment and I have to admit to skimming some pages because they felt long. The story for me was about more than the storyline though that was certainly interesting. What resonated with me was Ng's depiction of relationships. The relationships between mothers and their children, the relationship
Ng powerfully explored these relationships and wasn't afraid to showcase how at times we seem to hurt those we love the most because of our own unhappiness, apprehension or feelings of inadequacy.
In Elena Richardson and Mia Warren we see two polar opposite mothers.
Their lives would intertwine when Mia and her daughter Pearl rent an apartment from the Richardson's.
For Mia it is an open acceptance, understanding and love.
"Weaves" is the perfect word here as the story is connected by a host of characters and linked through many different relationships and actions.
I wholeheartedly enjoyed the explorations into the characters.
One family with teens who make mistakes (one big one) and a busy-body mother who thinks she's better than everybody.
Ok, I admit Mia and Pearl's story was a good one....the best of the novel actually....but overall the whole shebang was just a bit better than average for me....and honestly....forgettable.....In THE FIRST HALF, we meet some of the characters....the Richardson family, their four children, a few of their teen friends plus Mia and daughter Pearl who have just moved to town.....AND, I do know I'm in a MAJOR minority here, but Whew!
LITTLE FIRES EVERYWHERE pretty much fit into the average plus category for me.
