https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7184583-the-significance-of-the-frontier-in-american-history
As history, Turner's work can be a bit thin, factually speaking.
As a read, it is lively and interesting.
As an idea, however, it's incredibly permeating: so that even as you acknowledge the past century of criticism against its prioritization of males or Euro-centrism, you can't help but begin to see the hand of the frontier everywhere in contemporary America.
It becomes difficult to *not* read American culture in terms of the pioneer mythos that so shaped it through the first several hundred years of European habitation; and in this respect, Turner's thesis is perhaps most valuable as evidence, rather than explication, of the continued sway of the frontier.
These essays try to convey how the frontier drove American history and shaped it. Unfortunately, it starts with the premise that since Americans saw the West as "free land" to be occupied, you can imagine that not much thought was given to the Native peoples living there since they were savages and Americans were obviously civilized. It only got worse from then on.Chapters:The Significance of the Frontier in American HistoryThe Problem of the WestThe Significance of the Mississippi Valley in American HistorySocial Forces in American History
It's easy to see why this is a classic. It deals with the importance of geography in American history. To all those politically correct reviewers, the American continent was basically empty. The American settlers were people of the iron age going up against people of the stone age. Who do you think is going to win? And who do you think is more civilized? Ridiculous what they teach these days.
Читала в українському перекладі в Україні Модерній. Написана очевидцем подій, розкриває цікаву перспективу на перші хвилі американських іммігрантів, які захоплювали нові землі Заходу і яким чином це вплинуло на американську ідентичність - через теми торгівлі, управління, ментальностей...
Four Classic Essays By a Noted HistorianCollection published by Penguin Classics in 2008. The Significance of the Frontier in American History  is a collection of four essays written by noted historian Frederick Jackson Turner from 1893 to 1910. Penguin Classics has re-issued these essays as part of its Great Ideas series.Frederick Jackson Turner (1861-1932) is featured in just about every U.S. History textbook for his essay The Significance of the Frontier in American History, written in 1893.
Four Classic Essays By a Noted HistorianCollection published by Penguin Classics in 2008.
is a collection of four essays written by noted historian Frederick Jackson Turner from 1893 to 1910.
Penguin Classics has re-issued these essays as part of its Great Ideas series.Frederick Jackson Turner (1861-1932) is featured in just about every U.S. History textbook for his essay The Significance of the Frontier in American History, written in 1893.
I am embarrassed note that I had never read this classic essay until I read this collection, although I was familiar with its basic thesis.
This essay was assigned for AP American History at Maine Twp. H.S. South and was used, along with essays by other authors pro and con, to begin a discussion about the American character and what is popularly known as the Turner Thesis.
If you are like me and have built up your knowledge of the American frontier and its development as the nation grew by watching spaghetti westerns, then this book will add a little genuine knowledge without too much effort.
I don't know what I thought this book was going to be about, but I was disappointed & bored with its dry historical tone.
