https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1059680.Veganomicon
all of the recipes (except for those that contain foods I don’t like: seiten, tempeh, capers, vinegar, mustard, a few other ingredients) look delicious2.
while at first the book didn’t appear attractive to me, as I read it, I changed my mind: it has a great layout and it was easy to read and I decided I did like its appearance4.
creative and practical recipe organization and table of contents (I was going to list the table of contents outline in my review because I like it so much, but instead I encourage others to buy, borrow, look at the book for themselves)6.
This book is saucy and I like it:so far:Pineapple cashew quinoa - I accidentally made this with whole pecans instead of cashews because I was aggressively drunk cooking.
I'm all about the pineapple flavor, though, and this was really easy to put together (or was it, drunk Emily??
Snobby Joes - This is a recipe that Matt and I make every few weeks (it's generous to say "Matt and I make it" when what I really mean is "Matt makes it").
Do Snobby Joes made with lentils taste like sloppy joes made with meat?
Last week we ran out of chili powder and used cayenne pepper instead, which gave it a nice kick at the end.
We are busy people who love to cook delicious vegan food, and we often try to tackle five new recipes a week, so we read a lot of cookbooks.
Our kid asks for it by name.I only made one thing from this cookbook that I wasn't crazy about - the chickpea cutlets - and nearly everyone I've talked to about them LOVED the recipe, so I can only think that I did something wrong?Any time I talk to anyone about vegan cooking (which is OFTEN!) I always end up talking about this book.
God, I wanted to love this cookbook.
I appreciate the idea behind it - so many vegan cookbooks are thin paperbacks that it's a cool idea to try to up the game with a nice solid hardback.
But in my opinion, this is a middle ground cookbook - too highfalutin for daily use, but not quite polished enough for special events.
Other than a few standbys, I rarely use this cookbook because it is chock o' block with the types of bullshit obscure ingredients that I can't get around here.
Maybe they should only sell the cookbook in Brooklyn?
A good book for vegans, but probably not for newbies. There aren't many pictures, which is a real shame. It's primarily written for the American market, so there are lots of unusual ingredients, but nonetheless it's a good book. I like Isa's style of writing, it's easy and good fun. Recommended, but there are better books for the beginner vegan, in my opinion.
The authors don't leave out any details, and include things like "when you bake this cake, it's really really important to not open the oven for at least 45 minutes no matter how tempting it is".
They include lots of variations for most recipes.
Particularly, there's a recipe for lemon pound cake that's very yummy.
I just made the vegan mac 'n' "cheese", which was fantastic.
Even if you're not vegan, it's nice to learn how to cook in ways that aren't meat-centric.
Also, if you have vegan friends or know people who have to really watch their saturated fat / cholesterol, learning to cook some vegan dishes is a good addition to your culinary repertoire.
I am like 90% pescatarian, meaning that throughout a month like 90% of what I eat contains no soil- or earthbound or non-sea worthy animal components except dairy, because I love cheese to an almost shameful degree.
Anyway, I and my girlfriend eat a lot of vegan dishes because you know what?
enforced obstructions are a fun way of developing new techniques and learning things.
Veganism is like the Oulipo of gastronomy.
Anyway, I have never disliked a single dish made from this blessed book,The Veganomicon, so if you're vegan or just vegan-curious or just into cooking technique, check it out.
Veganomicon is the grown-up version of Vegan with a Vengeance.
Still the same intelligent, clever and witty writing and the same mind-blowingly creative recipes but this time there is some very helpful information on kitchen necessities, both cookware and pantry staples, basic information on how to prepare different types of produce, some very grown-up and organized menus and the layout is beautifully refined.
Even my dad, who is terrified of the word "vegan", is so crazy about the coconut carrot cake that I have made it multiple times and he consumes most of it.
So, pretty much, if you're vegan, or just not stupid, buy this book now.
Recipes made so far:Fudgy Wudgy Blueberry Brownies = ExcellentCoconut Lemon Bundt Cake = AwesomeEggplant and Potato Moussaka with Pine Nut Cream = OkayTamarind Lentils = DelishCurried Tofu = GoodChocolate Chip Banana Bread Pudding = Very tastyChickpea Cutlets = Outstanding and addictiveLasagne Marinara with Spinach = Very goodCreamy Tomato Soup = my daughter actually ate some which is a miracle.
A comprehensive vegan cookbook. I'll have to try some recipes before being sure of my rating. I'm not a fan of the emphasis on tofu and traditional wheat flours, but perhaps it will be worth it.
I've been going through this cookbook slowly, one intimidating recipe/ingredient at a time, because vegan cuisine seemed mysterious & I was ambitious.
As wonderful as many of the recipes were, many others were concluded with the statement, "would be better with cheese."Update: I've decided to bump this rating down a star because whenever I look at Veganomicon & on my shelf & think about making something out of it, I feel exhausted in advance.
The authors know which ingredients are a hassle to find and which are less commonly used by the average joe, and they do a great job of talking readers through the weird stuff and reminding us why it's worth it.If you're an open-minded meat-eater who loves to cook and has lots of veg friends, this is the solution for your next dinner party.
Not only will you find lots in here that your root-munching friends will love, but you'll also come up with a few recipes that will have even your most carnivorous buddies gnawing away on vegan delights.
This has helped me so much over the years.
I decided to make the leap into veganism in July 2011 after reading several books about the diet's benefits and I have never felt better.
I once couldn't imagine NOT eating meat or dairy, but after experimenting with so many great cookbooks, it really has been an easy transition.
Even my husband, who still eats meat and dairy occasionally (we don't bring it into the house anymore - just milk for him b/c that is his non-vegan vice) RAVES about most of the vegan meals I have prepared.
I went through the book tonight and wrote out the initial list of the recipes I want to try first.
This is a phenomenal cookbook for anyone who likes to cook and eat delicious food, vegan or vegetarian or BBQ-snarfer.
So far I have made the Leek and Bean Cassoulet with Biscuits, the Chestnut Lentil Pate, the Kalamata Dip, the Seitan Piccata, the Chickpea Cutlets, the Hot Sauce Glazed Tempeh (even better if you just bake the tempeh for 50 minutes in the marinade -- we ate this 4 times in one week that is how damn good the marinade is), and the Spicy Tempeh With Broccoli Rabe and Rotelli which is also fucking delicious.
I've had this book for a year or more and have recommended it countless times to aspiring vegans, curious vegetarians, and diabetic carnivores. I use it every week: it is the backbone of my menu. It completely demystifies the 'vegan' label and makes good food easy, acessible, delicious, and fun. The food is good-looking and tasty and balanced enough to serve to guests--who often exclaim in pleasure over the results. I absolutely don't care about the 'lack of pictures' complaint. It could have none and it wouldn't matter. These two collaborators deserve canonization and a far wider audience.
A good vegan cookbook is harder to find than a flesh-bound book of the dead.
Not only is this book filled with, as far as I have tested, delicious recopies, it is better organized and extensive than most other cookbooks I've come across, vegan or not.
It's a tad scrimpy on the photos, but the humorous descriptions of each recipe make up for that.Some people I am married to criticize the book for being too complicated and for having ingredients that aren't very common.
This is like a 300 page book instructing you how to smear cheeze whiz on a playing card.
I want to be able to create something hearty and real - not relying on the scurry to Whole Foods for the lonely Field Roast....
Already made the red and white seitanic jambalaya, a timely dish and a healthy nod to our friends and family in the Big Easy (shout out to John and Chris).
Devoted omnivore spouse was disappointed there are no andouille, but hey that seitan is really good and the dish leaves you feeling full and lively.
Who heard of paring these foods together?
I wasn't really enticed by any of these recipes. Nothing popped out and said, EAT ME! I think a good portion also had to do with the photography, which was a tad on the cyan side and made me gag a little. Perhaps it's just the vegan lifestyle... No! I take that back. I've read and tried alot of different vegan recipes in my time and I think focusing on the simplicity of the elements within the recipe should be the focus. Clearly, not the case with this cookbook. Check out 101cookbooks or Cucina Nicolina for better recipes.
I'm still working my way through this cookbook, but so far I have really enjoyed the recipes I have tried. They are easy to make and the instructions are well written. I like the little tips that are included with the recipes. For example they list different alternatives to certain foods (like peppers) if you can't find them. The only thing is I wish there were more pictures in the book and that he pictures were next to the respective recipe instead of in the middle of the book. Otherwise this is a great vegan cookbook!
Not as exhaustive as it claims to be (how can it explain cooking different types of vegetables but not give any general guidance for tofu and other more unusual meat replacements?) but some very good recipes all the same - the samosa stuffed baked potatoes were especially delicious!
LOL HOW CAN U BE VEGAN AND LIVE THIS BOOK IS SHIT LIKE VEGANS
I love how it gives the feeling of being a complete vegan cookbook - kind of the only book you'll ever need.
See, I have two big problems with this book: 1) The use of soy products.
There is tofu in most recipes it feels like.
I'm not keen on using that much soy products, plus I don't like the taste of tofu.
Up until now I haven't used soy products in my cooking more than a few times, and I haven't missed them...
Sadly, this book is my least favourite of my vegan cookbooks.
Omnivore hubby (who does not like ricotta cheese) had a big serving then helped himself to seconds.
To me that is always the highest recommendation for a vegan or vegetarian recipe.
If you like lots of pictures with your cook books you will be disappointed in that respect (although there is a mouthwatering middle section of gorgeous photos).
My daughter, who usually likes lots of pictures, started to train herself out of that need with "Vegan With A Vengeance".
So I guess this is a recommendation for "Vegan With A Vengeance" as well.
I've already highly recommended "Vegan Cookies Invade Your Cookie Jar".
I picked up a copy of Veganomicon after reading a lot of the website and I have to say that I absolutely love this cookbook.
It's a well-balanced cookbook that's fun and easy to read; it doesn't feel like a chore and it's very accessible.
Cookbooks like this make cooking fun, while making food the star.
It is a tome of wisdom that anyone who loves food should read regardless of whether or not they consume animal products.
Stop reading this review, go buy the book!
If there's a dud in this book, I ain't found it yet!I especially enjoy the additions of unique ingredients and textures that give the recipes more complex flavors.I also appreciate that the cooking times in the recipes are just about right on.
So many cookbooks I've used are just wrong as far a times to saute and simmer and so on.The one drawback for me is that the book is heavy on tofu, tempeh, and seitan recipes.
I only eat tofu and tempeh occasionally, but I'm sure I'll enjoy those recipes when I try them.
After checking out the local library's copy over and over again, I got my very own beautiful copy for Christmas thanks to my awesome husband. I really like the recipes I've tried so far. Some are a little complicated for my daily meals but there is a nice variety and everything I've tried so far has been delicious! :-)
LOVE IT! One of the best things about the Veganomicon is that in addition to awesome vegan recipes, it includes basic information about things such as cooking times for beans and grains, cooking terms, equipment, etc. A really, really awesome resource for ANY cookbook shelf, vegan, veggie, or omnivore.
Love love love this book!
Stattdessen finden sich in der Mitte des Buchs eine Bildersammlung mit Bildern von ungefähr 25-40 Rezepten (genau nachgezählt habe ich nicht).
Von diesen Grundbasic-Rezeptsammlungen finde ich dasjenige vom Veganomicon aber noch am ehesten akzeptabel, weil es eben sehr ausfürhlich ist, und zudem passt es in das Gesamtkonzept des Buches - viel besser als bei anderen Büchern.Generell punktet das Veganomicon durch bunte Symbole, die diverse Faktoren bei einem Rezept übersichtlich angeben.
Es verdient dennoch einen Beachtungs-Bonus, weil das vielen Leuten wichtig ist.Umsetzbarkeit, Zutaten und AufwandDie Umsetzbarkeit bei den Rezepten stufe ich als sehr hoch ein.
