https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149182.Growing_Pains
What a life this artist lived, so unusual for her time.
A young girl really at the time she decided to pursue art instead of the expected relationship and marriage that was the goal to which most young woman aspired.
From there she studied at various schools and art colonies, in England, Paris but always loved her native Vancouver best.
Her time with the Indians or nature studies.
So interesting to read of this women's life, the history she was party to, how she saw things and her passion for her art.
Five stars for a number of reasons: 1)The personal record of the struggles of an emerging artist.
2) An artist who can write too!
4)Carr's devotion to Western Canada's woods and native peoples.
(Don't think I've ever read any book quite so lavishly in love with Canada.) 5)The record of the correspondence between two respected artists.
6)Last, but my favorite of all - Carr wrote all her books in her 70's, after her doctor told her she needed to pull back on the painting - she had not written before, other than for her own personal pleasure.
(A large part of the book is devoted to the time Carr spent in England and France studying art.)
I enjoyed the writing style of Emily Carr, she definitely had some gall and independence in her day.
She is one of my favorite artists who was affiliated with The Group of Seven, a group of Canadian artists who painted the wilds of Canada.
The latter part of the book was my favorite because she wrote more about her developing her own style and finding her artistic voice.
I am a plein air artist and this especially made me feel sad, I can't imagining not being able to get outdoors to paint.
She enjoyed late life recognition and rewards, then age and infirmity put an end to her forest treks to paint, and she wrote a few wonderful books.
I had never been taught to think of our naked bodies as something beautiful, only as something indecent....Here was nothing but loveliness-- a glad, life-lit body, a woman proud of her profession, proud of her shapely self, regal, illuminated, high-poised above our clothed insignificance." Through the decades in her autobiography, she becomes more and more cantankerous and isolated.
But that phrase, "our clothed insignificance," so well describes what the artist sees, why we can see it too thanks to her, and why we gladly indulge the artist's eccentricity.
My bff and sharer of great books found this little volume of Emily Carr's autobiography after we had both read The Forest Lover by Susan Vreeland.
Carr’s story in her own word focuses on her early life in British Columbia with her stern father, her very proper Victorian mother and two sisters.
Carr tells of her rebellious childhood where she draws pictures on her fingernails, petticoats and in the margins of all her school books.
She is an embarrassment to her family who send her to foreign art schools starting at the age of 16 when she was sent to San Francisco, London and Paris.Carr wrote this book when she could no longer paint.
I really appreciated finding out more about this fascinating woman as she described her life.
She self describes her rule for writing as "get to the point and never use a big word when a small one will do".
She writes in a way that is not lofty and for an autobiography she spends a great bit of time describing mundane things from her day to day life that really showed me the value of valuing the mundane.
I want to be more mindful of what passes before me in this life.
I also really appreciated the advanced thoughts that Emily possessed for her time.
I live in Southeast Alaska and I love the Emily Carr paintings of cedar trees.
In the last quarter of the autobiography she tells the story of her relationship with Lawren Harris (to whom the book is dedicated).
Emily's story continues on when the doctors tell her that her painting is wearing too much on her body and she is forced to give it up and her creativity finds an outlet in her pen.
Emily Carr is a gift, and through her story I have also found the art of Lawren Harris, which I am also drawn to mightily.
I had to show what drove me to the woods and to the creatures for comfort, what caused the real starting point of my turn to Art.” (p.267)“It was like having a beautiful funeral only being very much alive to enjoy it.” (p.273)“What of the old maimed goose who could not rise to go with the flock?
I've admired her paintings, visited her home/museum in Victoria, BC, but this book helps to round her out as a person.
Her painting, in my eye, is full of light, even those that appear dark.
At the end of the autobiography she has been watching some geese fly over head and then looks back to the clearing where she is working, "Today the clearing was not sun-dazzled, rather it was illumed with Spring, every leaf was as yet only half unfurled and held light and spilled some." The true artist's eye.
She writes well even though she said her editor helped tremendously with punctuation and spelling.
Spoiler Alert: This is a very inspiring book.
Despite a lack of support for her artwork Emily Carr continues to work.
Unappreciated in Victoria and discouraged by family Emily somehow continues to work.
She stops believing in herself and still she continues to work.
She is saved when she meets fellow progressive painters.
When she can no longer paint then she begins to write in her late 60's!
As I read this book I kept thinking that I wished she could had met John Muir and Walt Whitman.
I was pleased that the last words in the book is a quote from Walt Whitman.
OMG why did this get 4 stars?
I got just under halfway through the book and finally gave up.
It is SO boring and she is so...
Unemotional?
All I know is that I was interested to learn about her but the little bitty bits of story (because we can't write it normally it has to be all choppy)that were unemotional and blah just made me stop caring.
I know artists can tend towards the odd or eccentric but she just comes off as kind of nasty.
I like her art but now it's kind of ruined for me.
Blah.
Such a good read. I had no idea that Emily Carr was a writer as well as a painter. She tells a great story and describes her highs and lows as an artist so well, I'm looking forward to reading her other books.
Discovered this artist at the Vancouver Art Museum and have been fascinated by her since then. The writing style takes getting used to but it has added depth to my appreciation of her paintings.
I found this autobiography of Emily Carr (famous Canadian artist) to be quite interesting! She was an independent woman, determined to be an artist despite the discouragement from her rather religious family that thought she should get married and live a traditional life. Carr earned money teaching art so she could study in San Francisco, then London, and then Paris, whilst overcoming some significant health issues. It wasn't till later in her life that she achieved fame and success.
Za prvé – NENÍ to životopis, je to jen jedna (a navíc až třetí) za vzpomínkových knížek autorky (což jsem zjistila až ke konci knihy, kde Emily popisuje, jak se ke psaní dostala, ohlasy na své dílo a svoje vlastní nejistoty a obavy z literárního selhání), takže veliká část Emilyina života a tvorby zde prostě není.
„Growing Pains“ měla být patrně věnována malování (stejně jako ostatní knížky zas zachycují její dětství či zážitky z indiánských vesnic), ale dobré tři čtvrtiny knihy zabírají vlastně vzpomínky na její studia v San Francisku, Londýně a Paříži, kde sice velmi vtipně a zajímavě popisuje své spolužáky, profesory, život v daných městech a řadu společenských návštěv, ke kterým se musela uvolit, ale o samotném malířství se nedozvíme prakticky nic.
Emily Carr writes not only of her natural growth from a child but also of her growth creatively.
Art to Emily Carr however was an obsession and a lifelong pursuit.
In the end, she captured the spirit of Western Canada within the woods she loved so much.I wonder if I would've befriended this rebellious painter in life as I did by her writing."Why, I didn't know you went to art school in San Fancisco and England.
I chose Emily Carr to do my history project on, and we had to discover what our historical person was truly like, and what their personality was.
It was very interesting to read because I did a small research project on her in grade eight, but I didn't know the events that happened in her childhood and early teens.
She has many accomplishments, but when I read this book I discovered the little things in her early life that were very significant.
She is a brilliant writer, and as an artist myself, it was very inspiring to read about her life.
The reason I picked up this book from the local library is because her name is mentioned everywhere around Vancouver, BC, Canada.
I have only read a handful of biographies but none that have been written like you are reading a fiction book.
This book is also part history on what it was like to grow up a female in 18th century Victoria.
The book comprises of short stories of important moments in her life, mostly of her youth.
A good read into the life of someone who struggled artistically, with her family and society.
This was an interesting read offering insight into Emily Carr's writings, life, and paintings, and interesting (and extremely personal) perspectives on what it was like for her to be a young art student at odds with her time and place. However, the writing is very uneven and oddly paced. If you are new to Carr, I would recommend starting with Klee Wyck, short memoirs in the form of vivid, poetically composed "sketches." Hundreds and Thousands: The Journals of Emily Carr is also very interesting, more informal writing, capturing her artistic process and thinking (transcriptions of her journals).
Emily Carr's Growing Pains is my favorite artist biography to date.
The book is written in a way that makes you feel like Emily is confiding in you; hearing of small victories and bitter setbacks on her journey as a Canadian artist.
This book should be required reading for any student of Canadian Art. This autobiography will give you a deep appreciation and respect for Carr's devotion to her medium.
You will gain an intuition for the different phases of her life, and how each phase influenced her work.By no means is this book just for artists or those who know Emily's work.
So thoroughly enjoyed this book, I will be sure to read her others.
I had no idea that Carr was a writer as well as an artist.
I always enjoy reading about women coming of age and learning their art at the turn of the century.
This was doubly enjoyable because she described what that looked like in Victoria, BC.
This of course was a "carefully crafted" portrait of Carr.
I'd like to now read a biography for an outside perspective.
There's a new Emily Carr show at the AGO starting in April - perfect timing.
Her book begins with her childhood and proceeds through her teenage and early twenties as she pursues her interest in art.
As a young woman from that era,it took courage and determination to deviate from the commonly accepted norm.
The book is also an account of her struggles to have her art accepted, not only by the public but also by her family.
Of course, in later years her art was accepted by the Group of Seven.
Her books which were written in the later part of her life were warmly received.
This book was well written and I found the early part of her life very interesting .
growing up on the westcoast, i was so sick of hearing about emily carr and seeing her sweeping, melancholic landscapes. i thought i already knew her life story, but after reading her autobiography, i realized that she really loved our rainforests and respected and revered first nation art work.i think i've become a born-again emily carr fan. her writing style is much like her painting, simple yet dramatic. she is very personable and wasn't afraid to talk about herself in a modest and almost self-deprecating way.an inspiring story for all artists of any medium.
Actually I only read half of this book. I had really enjoyed a biography of Emily Carr, and love her paintings, so decided to give this autobiography a try. It felt a bit too painful and even tedious to me. I am sorry that Emily Carr was born too soon for the world, as she didn't fit into the social scene or even the art scene wherever she went. I think if she were a young artist today, she would be much happier. Fortunately we have her incredible paintings to appreciate in the museums of Victoria and Vancouver.
Pulsing with unshakeable devotion to British Colombia, Carr paints an intimate portrait of her highs & lows, her travels abroad, and artistic insecurities as she grows and develops into one of Canada's most prized painters and writers. The autobiography reveals a fascinating time in the history of North America and its art scene. Carr shows us the artist's psyche in bold beautiful language that craves the fuel provided only by human (and animal) reassurance and understanding.
Emily Carr was born in 1871. She wrote this in the 1940's.She traveled all over the world, mostly alone.That is a worthy enough reason to read this woman'sartistic journey and her rebellious struggle to be an artistand to be the woman that she wanted to be.Emily Carr gave Canada and the world what Frida Kahlo for Mexico and the worldand Georgia O'Keeffe did for America and the world.
What a beautiful book this is. Emily Carr had an interesting life and she sets it on the page in a way that is both charming and engaging, and that also gives you a very real sense of her character. I really enjoyed reading this, and am looking forward to reading more of her work, as well as looking at her amazing paintings.
After reading Forest Lover, I was interested in hearing from Emily Carr about her life. She tells it like it is with no embellishments or apologies. Very refreshing and a good insight into her life, with not as much emphasis on her art as her other works.
This is great story-telling! I'm only half-way through, and I'm willing to give it 5 stars!OK, I'm done and it was such a rare pleasure to be so absorbed and interested in a memoir. Now I've got to read all of her other books!
I'm not a huge fan of Emily Carr's artwork itself, but this autobiography really sucked me in. Carr's independent spirit, dedication to her work, and eventual success as described in this book were quite inspiring.
