https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36254.Green_Darkness
1960s Great Britain back into mid-16th century England. reincarnation. undying loving. characters reborn but carrying the same damn baggage. all of that. for the most part this is an enjoyable novel about two lovers reborn who knows how many times, destined for tragic ends until they are able to sort out all of their issues. I loved the opening chapters: cosmopolitan aristocrats lounging around the pool, touring historical sites with rolled eyes, making loaded comments to each other during a din
for the most part this is an enjoyable novel about two lovers reborn who knows how many times, destined for tragic ends until they are able to sort out all of their issues.
I should read more 'contemporary' novels written during that era featuring similar characters.
Seton clearly spent a lot of time researching the book, and it shows.
and she does more than show off her extensive research - the novel is written by a person with such a strong feeling for the era that I eventually felt like I was living there as well.
I read this book when it was "new" and omg I LOVED it. It was complex and dark and romantic and my then 14 yr old self couldn't get enough.Someone commented that it's "dated". It wasn't then but it's a reason I've never tried to re-read it. I want to keep the feeling of how wonderful it was to younger less world-weary me.
Rating: 3 stars out of five, but only because I still love the memoryThe Publisher Says: This unforgettable story of undying love combines mysticism, suspense, mystery, and romance into a web of good and evil that stretches from 16th-century England to the present day.
Mama was just getting the Jeebus infection that ate her sense of humor, compassion, and decency...all oddly enough while sexually abusing her teenaged son, funny how often religion masks corruption...and my sister was in one of the periodic hellish patches that have punctuated her road through life.We all resonated with the travails of the characters, trying to work out their manifold interconnections and karmic debts.
If you've been having difficulty getting to sleep, Green Darkness can help.
It's a long, dreary romance, rendered in prose that's the stylistic equivalent of dishwater, about a modern couple plagued by unresolved issues from a past life exasperating in all the wrong ways.
Was Green Darkness for me somehow a symbol of adolescence?
I brought the book home only to find that the best things about it were the cover's eerie green forest scene and the vague, mistaken sense of potential that had lured me to read it the first time.
That's my absolute favourite by Anya Seton. She combines present and past in this story of a crime in a medieval setting and how it's still affecting the present. She explains political and social issues in an easy to understand way. One of the books I keep re-reading
Would that not be slightly more important thank knowing that he's from Italy?)Worst of all, I felt like there was hardly much of a love story-- which is what the entire book is supposed to be based on (or that was my interpretation, at least.) It didn't seem to me that Celia and Stephen loved each other all that much (come on, she "forgot" about him SEVERAL times- you don't forget about the person you're truly in love with!) and Celia and Richard seemed to hate each other.
They seemed to hardly know each other.Overall, very disappointing.
Student carries a torch for the teacher for years, despite rarely seeing each other (except for a weird-almost-sexual-encounter during the middle of a home invasion??) and being married and widowed.
Student sees teacher again, sexual advances ensue, teacher says "No" very clearly in several ways.
She doesn't really understand the "love of her life" at all, and knows that she's doing wrong, and never once respects the guy's wishes.
The only basis for their "love" seems to be that they're both good-looking and she's maniacally devoted; they certainly don't get to know each other in any meaningful way.
I read Green Darkness when it was first published, so I would have been a young teenager.
It was the beginning of my love of dual time stories, and the forbidden love between Celia, the fair maiden, and the monk struck a chord with me.
When I added it to GR, my nostalgic memory rated it 4 stars.If I was reading it now for the first time, I would be inclined to rate it 3 stars.
I skimmed to the dramatic end of the 16th century tale which was the heart of the story.
My mom gave me this book to read as a teen.
It was amazing!
It is set in two time periods so is a modern and historical mixed into one.
You start with two people getting married in present day.
Then due to circumstances they end up discovering they knew each other before in 1500s England.
Obviously a very different time.
Their love affair in the past was rather complicated as it wasn't "meant to be".
The story explores past lives and reincarnation which was fascinating.
It's a great love story as well.
Highly recommended if you enjoy historical fiction....
Such a great title this book has, but I just can not read it. Actually I tried once, several years ago, didn't get as far, and was cheesed out by the reincarnation stuff. This time I thought I could deal with it, read over a hundred pages, and just... The reincarnation plot is dumb and it also felt slightly racist with the wise Hindu man and all that. She didn't mean to be racist, I'm sure, and the book is from 1972. But I just didn't like it, and it is extraordinarily long.
I found this book sitting all by itself on a table at a library book sale.
It was the last day of the sale and everything had been quite picked over except for this gem.
One evening Celia falls into a trance-like state and we find out that she is revisiting her past life in the 1500's.
Her past life involves a tragic love and ending which must be resolved in order for her present to be free.
Seton explores the idea of reincarnation and atonement in an interesting way that is believable and not gimmicky.
Another winner from Seton.
After the tragic ending of the Tudor story (which is well-foreshadowed in the first part of the book), the novel returns to 1968 and the conflict between the modern Richard and Celia is neatly resolved.It took me a while to sink into the novel.
The return to the present - the last 40 or so pages of the novel - felt like an after thought and in my mind, the story I cared about already ended with the section on the Tudor period.
I enjoyed the book, especially the middle part (the majority of the story) about the first Celia and Stephen the monk. They had a truly sad ending, my heart especially broke for the fate of Stephen. Maybe it is just me, but the last part of the book just didn't flow well for me, but I can't put my finger on why. All in all an enjoyable read, but it definitely isn't Katherine, which all lovers of historical fiction should read -- that one deserves 10 stars at least.
Characters from 1968 England also are re-incarnated souls of people from the past.
Seton portrays England at the time of the Reformation, with all its uncertainties and constantly changing loyalties very well.
It's nice to read a novel from the Catholic perspective at this time-most seem to focus on Anne Boleyn, Elzabeth I, etc.
But after several times of reading it, I understand and catch the nuances from 1968 to the Reformation.
Seton remains consistent hundreds of years apart and you must read it several times to catch the brilliance, but it's totally worth it.
I've had Green Darkness in my to-be-read pile for a long time now.
I love stories about Tudor England, but this was my first one to also include the element of reincarnation.
While I didn't feel alot for the 1960's Robert and Celia, I was sucked into Seton's description and story of Stephen, the monk torn between his vows to serve God and the provocative Celia, and Celia's longing for the man she couldn't have.
I've now been pleased with two of Ms. Seton's books, I loved "Katherine" and "Green Darkness" for different reasons, and I'm looking forward to reading more books by this author!
Meticulously researched, beautifully written and cleverly constructed, but the experience of reading it wasn't totally enjoyable because it's permeated with an almost suffocating atmosphere of sadness and impending doom.
You know right from the start that unspeakable things are going to happen to the characters, and the deepening tension in watching as those events inch inexorably closer forced me to actually stop and take breaks now and again because it was all getting too much for me.
Even the resolution of the story and the neat 'everyone gets what they deserve' ending doesn't really lessen the sense of melancholy.
Hated all the reincarnation stuff, then I came back to it and Anya Seton wove her spellFirst of all, this book takes place during the time during the short reign of Henry VIII’s son Edward, his death and the shorter reign of Jane Grey, and Mary Tudor, Gothic in tone and so well written.
I will say however - the best part of the book is once you get past the very start of the book which focuses on a group of people in the late 1960s, it’s during THAT and the authors rather eastern view of reincarnation that annoyed me.
Most likely these two events have nothing to do with each other but I love how she blended the two of them together to make an amazing and beautiful story.So if you are looking for something new to read and you love historical or paranormal romance then I would most definitely suggest this novel!
The language is lovely and you genuinely feel as if you get to know Celia and Richard throughout the novel and feel bad for them as things just never seem to go the way they would have liked.Hopefully you enjoy this book as much as I did!
I ran across a copy in a used bookstore this week and sat down on a couch to spend an afternoon re-reading it.
I was a huge Velda Johnston, Phyllis Whitney, Phillippa Carr,etc fan and even read a bunch of the original Harlequin romances in the late 1960's/early 1970's but now I like more mystery and as little romance as we can get.
However, for those who DO like historical romance and are interested in England during this historical period and don't mind the reincarnation bit, this might just be for you and you could do a lot worse.
My mom always comments that you need to keep in mind not only the timeframe that a book is set within, but the timeframe it was written. This advice could not be more applicable than with this book - here is the late 60s in all its glory - reincarnation, rape as a romantic act (and as part of accepted marital behavior), and mysticism. I can see it being captivating to a young teenager (and reminded me of some of the impactful Victoria Holts I read from that time) but reading with 21st century adult eyes it was pretty bad.
I read this book when it first came out, when I was a young (VERY young) married woman who knew no one in her new town and haunted the local library. I remember LOVING it. And since it's been almost 40 (!!!) years since I read it, the time is coming to read it again, and I wonder....will I still love it? (And what if I don't?)
I love this book! What a beautiful story. It is a time traveling story that begins in 1968 then goes to Tudar times. I love Tudar times. It is a tale of past lives and how they come back to haunt you. I highly reccomend it.
This wasn't as good as the other Seton novels I've read. Despite an interesting idea, the characters weren't very real to me, and I didn't care very much what happened to any of them. Specifically, I thought the main character's husband was a huge jerk, even if he WAS wrestling with demons.
Books written about this era are often set in the south of England, and I'd never before read such an absorbing account of what life would really have been like up in those cold northern hills; indeed, London and the south must have seemed like another country.As 1960s Celia and other characters in the first part drift into the past, so the characters of the 16th century experience flashes of their future lives ~ this I loved, and would have liked to see more of it.
Over the first few months it becomes apparent that the marriage is foundering, Richard becoming more unkind and distant, sleeping separately from Celia, and finding her mother, who is staying with them, increasingly irritating.
Celia is admitted to a private London clinic, where she's expected to die, while Richard becomes increasingly disturbed and refuses to see anyone.One of the house guests is Dr Akanandan, a medically and psychiatrically trained doctor, who is also deeply knowledgeable about Eastern religions and their healing traditions, including the concept of reincarnation.
A disappointing read from Anya Seton. I have thoroughly enjoyed some of her books but find that her story-telling ability is not consistent. In this novel the characters don't come across as real people - they are all over-dramatized and rather foolish - I felt no empathy with any of them. Also the concept of reincarnation is a difficult one to handle and unfortunately this attempt was less than convincing.I hovered between 2 and 3 stars but gave it 3 because some of the historical detail of the Tudor period was interesting.
Katherine has long been one of my favorite historical novels, so I thought that it was past time to try one of her other books.
I happened upon a copy of Green Darkness in my local used book store and figured that it would do as well as any to start out with.
Green Darkness starts in the 1960's, with recently married Richard and Celia Marsdon.
I'd probably read Green Darkness again at some point, but I hope to find that others of her books are closer to being as good as Katherine.
Celia of 1968 falls into a terminal coma that she is able to defeat only by re-experiencing her past life on the periphery of the nobility in Tudor England.
That isn’t an indictment; the portrait of life during the English Reformation is an easy read even though it skips the goings on of the lascivious King Henry VIII.
But I found myself wishing that the spiritual element—the interplay between past and present through the reincarnated souls of the characters—was more integrated into the main narrative.
Read this a few years ago after completing Seton's magnificent Katherine.
From what I remember of my impressions, this is not a bad book, but I'd also say it's not to the caliber of Katherine.Usually, when I read time travel books, I enjoy the plot thread of the past lives better then the modern ones.
Nonetheless, GR is still a beautifully written novel, and I enjoyed the merging of past and present characters.Bottom line: if you're new to Anya Seton and deciding between her novels for your first read, I'd go with Katherine instead of GD.
I think I would have liked this book more if I would have had time to read it faster. It was one of those books that called for devouring hours at a time. Instead I was lucky if I could sneak in 30-40 pages in a half hour. It was better than Devil Water but Katherine is still Seton's standard.
