https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9014.The_Long_Walk
The premise of the book is very simple: Every year, 100 boys enter a contest called the Long Walk, and the winner gets all his heart desires.
However, if the boy collects three warnings, the next time he slows down, he's shot in the head and out of the game.I love this book, but it's really hard to communicate what I think it's trying to relate.
Ultimately, this book questions what it means to live through the eyes of one boy (and 99 others) who are walking right into the arms of death.
All we get to know is Garraty, the main character in the story, and the other boys he meets in the Long Walk.
(4.5) Every time someone asks me which Stephen King book I would recommend, I mention this one. After reading quite a few of his books, it's still my favorite!The downward spiral into madness and overall despair were very well written. Reading this book literally made my body ache. I do wish there were a few more details about the world, how the long walk came about, etc. The ending wasn't fully satisfying, as seems to be most endings for SK, but I enjoyed the book anyway.
To think something so dark and depressing could come out of a premise so simple.I'll keep this brief, Richard Bachman (a pseudonym of Stephen King) has made something short and great here.
There are a lot of great fan theories on the ending though, so if you feel disappointed by it, I think one of this theory can put more closure on the reader.Overall, I highly recommend this for anyone who's looking for a short, dark, engrossing, and a bit philosophical book.You can find this and the rest of my Adult Epic/High Fantasy & Sci-Fi reviews at BookNest
So whenever I see an ad for those kinds of shows I can’t help but think that the people who make that trash read those books but saw them as great TV concepts rather than horrifying visions of the future.The scenario here is that 100 teenage boys volunteer to be part of an annual event called The Long Walk.
Instead it gives the whole thing a kind of dated charm like watching a movie from the ‘70s where everyone is smoking and people have to wait by the phone.One more note about Stephen King: The man really needs to have a spoiler warning branded on his forehead.
The Long Walk is heavy on both mortality and death.King started writing this when he was eighteen.
My heart would be racing in my chest - when some of those boys stumbled I would be screaming "GET UP" in my head!So many King books have had an impact on me, but this has been one of the most impressive.
I cried on countless occasions during this read - death is a very real fear for me, and when I think of what these boys must have been going through, it got to be too much at times.As for the characters themselves, King has written them all in such a way that they're very individual, with their own personalities and traits.
The Long Walk is simply exhausting to read.
This is not because the book was bad and that I was losing attention, it was simply because I was so involved in the story.
I was walking WITH them.The premise is simple and I'm sure if you're reading this review you're aware of what its about.
The fact that the story is so simple, allows for it to become deeper on so many different levels.At the end of the book I found myself questioning everything, not because the ending left me unfulfilled but because it made me realise so much about life.The Long Walk is depressing, exhausting and brutal.
According to King, he wrote The Long Walk while in college in 1966-67 and it became one of those "drawer novels" that got put away to gather dust when he couldn't get it published.
If it's been a long time since you've read this book, don't you think it's time to read it again?The Long Walk and possible links to the DT Universe:(view spoiler)[It's important to remember that TLW is a VERY early book for King, that pre-dates his beginning to write of a Dark Tower (which in the afterward to The Gunslinger he says was 1970).
Every year, 100 boys take part in a nightmarish pilgrimage called The Long Walk, the winner receiving The Prize and a ton of cash.
The Long Walk seems like an ancestor of The Hunger Games in some ways, although the Long Walk seems to be voluntary.Unlike the Hunger Games, this book is pretty brutal.
Like I said, pretty brutal.As usual, Stephen King crafts an interesting cast.
Garraty, McVries, Stebbins, Barkovitch, Scramm, the list is pretty long for a short book.
Usually, I find King's dialogue a lot more realistic but it pulled me out of the story a few times.
This is one of my favorite King books; Suspenseful, unique, and all too possible. It is one of the few books that I have read more than once. Highly recommended for someone looking for a good place to start with King.
This is Stephen King at his creepy best. I’m on vacation and I ripped through this in a day. As I read, the water became less blue, the beach became less sunny, the drinks stopped getting the job done...LOL. You get the idea, getting pulled into Stephen King’s world, even for a day, is a dark, dark place. Also? Suzanne Collins ripped Stephen King off so obviously that she should credit him at the beginning of her Hunger Games books.
I can’t think of any other way to review this book, so consider yourself warned.Imagine a version of America that is completely obsessed with an annual “game” known as the Long Walk.
One hundred boys are selected each year to march in the Long Walk, and the last one walking gets the Prize, or anything his heart desires for the rest of his life.
Once you start walking, you walk until you win or you die.Do you know what the most disturbing part is?
Every single boy that signs up to join the walk knows exactly what to expect.
The Long Walk is a book by an elusive author named Richard Bachman—whom no one has ever met—about a bunch of kids being slaughtered in a near-future (or alternate reality) dystopian America.
The lack of foresight here is really disappointing.There are differences, though, between The Hunger Games and this book, particularly in that the kids in The Long Walk are mowed down by military officials rather than by each other, and that participation in this deadly event is strictly voluntary (whereas in The Hunger Games, there is little “choice” in the matter).
VERY GOOD. This book felt like the boys from Stand by Me had to walk for a long long time and this was the result. I really liked how the boys bonded and acted silly (like 16 year old boys are wont to do) because it felt very genuine. However, this book made me feel bad because I was sitting on the couch reading while they were walking for days and days lol
Foreshadowing and an inexorable conclusion marked the horrific legend of the “Fall of the House of Usher”.Like Poe, King took a devilishly simple idea and delivered one of his strongest works, but lean and muscular in its vibrancy.The Long Walk was one of King’s earliest writings, put together long before its 1979 publication.
Such a statement from Stephen King is marked with ominous forebodings.Set in an alternate history, near future dystopian society ruled by an autocratic leader called “The Major”, 100 contestants, all young men, begin a walk in Maine.
The rules are simple: walk and maintain a pace or the walker is given a warning.
Stephen Kings Schreibstil ist unglaublich. Irgendwie ist in diesem Buch ja nichts geschehen , bis auf das ein paar Jungs ununterbrochen laufen und trotzdem hab ich sowohl gelacht, als auch geweint! King ist einfach gut darin, Charaktere zu erschaffen und sie dem Leser nahe zu bringen, selbst wenn man sie unsympathisch findet, fiebert man mit. Hut ab :)
It's really fascinating to go back and read books you thought you really understood as a kid, and diving into Bachman nee King writing a disturbing dystopian YA really fits the bill for the whole mind-blowing thing.
but this time I enjoyed the idea of pretending it might be a modern mature video game we could play as either the walkers or the dire guards with rifles that kept pace with the kids and gave them three warnings, three minutes, before the bullet entered the skull.I was just thinking how much headshots would count.
Jesus Christ. A long walk indeed, Steve. A long walk in-fucking-deed.
I want people to be eating weird pellets that are probably made out of people, an evil overlord with some sort of hatred of children for some reason, flying cars and everything robotic - but evil robots - not good ones, an unfair class system that holds the plebs down, a scrappy resistance with a sexy (although dirty) leader, lots of senseless killing and violence, and of course - death games.
This book was about the death games.Okay, maybe some of those ideas aren't exactly fresh.So, this is set in the 1970's maybe, but an alternate reality, I guess, because I don't remember there being a gameshow/competition where 100 teenage boys walked day and night until only one was left alive.
The Long Walk is a short story by Richard Bachman, aka a much younger and much more cynical Stephen King.
It centers around Ray Garraty, one of the 100 boys selected to participate in this year’s Long Walk.
What is the Long Walk you ask?
Exactly what it sounds like: a long fucking walk.
We are inside the mind of Garraty and we get the firsthand experience of what it’s like to walk nonstop day and night through the elements.
Garraty is interested in learning about the other boys who willingly volunteered to partake in this walk, the biggest sporting event of the year.
While I can see where this comparison comes from - a televised game of kids competing (view spoiler)[ and the winner is the one who survives the rest (hide spoiler)] (it's not really a spoiler and you find it out quite soon, I don't want to spoil it if you don't know anything else) - it's not really anything close.
Who volunteers to join a competition where not only does everyone die but the winner, but everyone joining has also seen the end when the kids are obviously suffering.The first thing that got me (and by "got me," I mean sucked me in and made this a favorite book of mine) was the kind of secret language that was used.
4/5 stars ⭐⭐⭐⭐Favorite Quotes:"99 bottles of beer on the wall and if one of those bottles should happen to fall.." "But of course it had hurt.
-I wouldn't say that I had low expectations going into this book, but I was a little concerned that it would get repetitive since the entire book is centered around "The Long Walk".
I needed to know what happened next!
-I really enjoyed the point in this novel where I started rooting for certain characters.
It almost felt like these characters were real, and The Long Walk was something that was actually taking place.
Then again, it's not like the human race hasn't proven they're capable of murdering large numbers of innocent people in the past.As the story progresses, King poses to the reader - is the prize really worth it?
Usually, I’m not one for gore or the fad of “torture porn” but King writes in a way that lets the reader come up with his own vision of the situation rather than beat you over the head with graphic imagery.
King just uses the walk and the constant death throughout as a backdrop – he wants to craft compelling characters and ask the reader questions of morality.
La larga marcha es un espectáculo televisado mundialmente donde 100 concursante deben caminar, sin parar, hasta que solo quede 1 vivo.
Es sobre la supervivencia, la amistad, las ganas de vivir un kilometro más, pero también sobre el morbo del espectáculo, el deshumanismo, lo que estaríamos dispuestos a sacrificar por diversión ¿no era eso lo que hacían los romanos en el coliseo?
Los personajes son realmente admirables y diferenciables, lo cual es difícil de conseguir porque solo los vemos en la larga marcha no en otros momentos de su vida.
4.5 porque el final me pareció un poco apresurado pero también me encantó
I felt like I could tap into the structure of the telling rather easily, but honestly, it sounded tedious to write.And that's about where I am with "The Long Walk." Technically, it is written well although it goes to obvious lengths in the beginning to conceal the consequences of the Walk.
How it felt to come up against uncaring authority.Yeah, yeah, parallels and allusions.The most interesting thing about this was the 1996 Introduction by Stephen King in which he shares his feelings about his Bachman alter ego and what it was like to have it exposed.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/There’s only two things you need to worry about when taking The Long Walk: picking them up and laying them down. Outwalk the other 99 contestants in this most twisted of games and you’ll win the grand prize – whatever your heart desires for the rest of your life.Why the hell did I not know about this book for the past billion years I’ve been alive? I’ve been a King fangirl since the discovery of fire and can’t see how this one slipped
Outwalk the other 99 contestants in this most twisted of games and you’ll win the grand prize – whatever your heart desires for the rest of your life.Why the hell did I not know about this book for the past billion years I’ve been alive?
Stephen King might be the only author who can write a nearly 400 page story with no reference to what year it takes place and absolutely zero “world building”.
The participants need to walk without decreasing their speeds and without stopping until they reach the finish line.
Each time they fail sustaining their walks is equivalent to a ticket, they can only get three tickets, the next one will be a gunshot in their heads.What made me buy this book is because it is in my favorite genre, Dystopia.
And besides, I read somewhere thatthis is where Suzzanne Collins got her idea of her novel, The Hunger Games(One of my favorite novel).
I felt like I wasted too much time reading the book.
A relentless, horrifying journey into the extremes of human physical and mental endurance, The Long Walk is a harrowing novel, not an outright horror tale, but a terrifying trip that gets under the readers skin as the walk wears on.
Bachman (sai King) is able to get the reader to experience the walk in intimate detail; each aching arch, sleeplessness, the gut renching realization of the reality of the situation.
As each mile passes, we become as much part of the long walk as the characters.
Of the Bachman books, The Long Walk is the best written and most effective at looking at the more cynical and cruel aspects of the human mind and spirit.
Luego del tercer aviso, las cosas se ponen seriamente oscuras, y reciben su "pase", el equivalente a una muerte segura.Es una de las novelas más duras del autor, hay momentos muy deprimentes en esta historia, principalmente llegando al final debo confesar que me hizo lagrimear un poco.
Garraty, con firmeza y determinación, mantiene en pie su aventura descabellada y se suma a la larga marcha.Es increíble lo que me costaba leer ciertas situaciones, al ser una de las novelas más realistas del autor, y al mismo tiempo más inhumanas, despiadadas.
I decided to listen to it this time just to experience the story on another level.
This was the first audiobook I ever listened to, and I must say it's a lot different than what I imagined it would be.
His voice grew on me and certainly didn't detract from the story in any way.
Oh, and Barkovitch started sounding too much like Jack Nicholson :) Other than those small quibbles, I loved listening to this story as much as I've loved reading it.
It doesn't matter how many times I read (or listen) to this story, it never gets old, the tension never falls flat.
2.5 starsFor most of the time I was reading this novel I felt like nothing important happened. For almost the entire novel the same thing was occurring. I also found it to be predictable. I knew what was going to happen the more I got into the story.I did have to force myself, at certain times, to continue reading this. The chapters were extremely long, and would have like the chapters to be split up and make shorter. For the most part, the ending was enjoyable, even if I knew what was going to happen.
