https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33916024-sourdough
This book was great!
It is like he takes things from our normal, everyday lives and tweaks them slightly towards the bizarre.
After finishing his works, you may not look at the little things quite the same anymore.Also, this is definitely a book for foodies!
If you love food, baking, unique culinary trends, farmer’s markets, ordering new takeout food that takes you out of your comfort zone (see what I did there .
takes you out .
;)), then you must read this book.Oh, and now I want ALL THE SOURDOUGH!
Very charming
if i had to point out one negative thing, it’s that his characters aren’t as developed or complex as you may find elsewhere, but in a way it’s a little freeing to read something that isn’t concerned with psychological scrutiny, and i kind of loved that it was fun without being “dumb” fun.OH - i just realized - this book is "adventures in food and fun!!" which is a thing that used to happen here on goodreads and no longer does.
I'm between 4 and 4.5 stars here. Well, now that we've gotten that out of the way...The above GIF probably clues you in on one of the reasons I requested this book from NetGalley the minute I saw it. (My obsessive love of carbs aside, I was a huge fan of Robin Sloan's last book, Mr. Penumbra's 24-Hour Bookstore—see my original review—so that had something to do with it, too!)Lois Clary is a software engineer who moves her life from Michigan to San Francisco after receiving a job offer from Gener
(My obsessive love of carbs aside, I was a huge fan of Robin Sloan's last book, Mr. Penumbra's 24-Hour Bookstore—see my original review—so that had something to do with it, too!)Lois Clary is a software engineer who moves her life from Michigan to San Francisco after receiving a job offer from General Dexterity, a prestigious robotics company with the ambition of replacing the actual workforce with robots.
Her bread becomes a favorite of her colleagues, neighbors, and friends, until the demand starts increasing beyond what someone with an intense full-time job can handle.Lois also quickly realizes that the starter Beoreg gave her isn't just your run-of-the-mill starter.
Living in Silicon Valley for many years - the Bay Area my entire life - Berkeley- Oakland- San Francisco - and San Jose....
I know many techie-self starters ....
Startup companies is synonymous with Silicon Valley as Sourdough French Bread is synonymous with San Francisco.
Mix it all together and Robin Sloan has written the ultimate startup-sourdough novel that could ‘only’ have taken place in the Bay Area.
this is charming novel baked with warmth.I’m looking forward to breaking bread with Celia when we both go see Robin Sloan!
Nutritive gel for dinner! People do this! That sounds like a futuristic overpopulated planet and dwindling resources scenario. At least, Soylent Green looked like it had texture and mouthfeel.Anyway, our young hero gets to eat something a lot better, than nutritive gel slurry. She becomes launched on an adventure in baking. It is all very cute and kind. Fluffy like the inside of the loaf. I didn’t get a lot out of it. It’s pleasant. Maybe, I’m jealous. My starter doesn’t sing and smile.
Notwithstanding that constant distraction, what stands out most about Sourdough is Robin Sloan’s ability to marry technology and whimsy in a way that feels organic (and yes, pun intended vis-à-vis the strange foodie subculture explored in the book).
Sourdough is a very weird book that doesn’t feel weird when you read it; it’s only when you think too hard about it or try to explain it to someone that things get strange.
Lois Clary is a software programmer lured from her home and comfortable job to move to San Francisco with a lucrative financial and benefits package offered by General Dexterity, a robotics company.
Ordering this almost daily, Lois becomes the number one eater of brothers Beoreg and Chaiman's food.
However, mass producing the sourdough leaves her magical starter in an extreme state of depression and in the doldrums for which Lois tries to find a remedy.
I like the combination of biotechnology with fantasy, Robin Sloan makes this work well in the ideal location of San Francisco and its guiding spirit of the alternative.
A novel that begins with such promise as it opens with a witty look at office life for the employees of the pioneering San Francisco technology companies and the fortunes of newly recruited and blissfully naive Lois Clary ends up with author Robin Sloan overworking the dough.
Before robotics engineer Lois Clary was recruited by a talent associate on behalf of General Dexterity in San Francisco she had spent her life to date close to her family in Michigan.
What begins as an obligation not to let the brothers down slowly evolves into a simmering passion for Lois as her produce turns the eye of a few of her colleagues and is snapped up by the in-house chef at General Dexterity.
This book is about a woman baking bread and how this process transforms her and her life. I know, sounds simple, right?Well, if you have baked bread you know there's a lot more to it than just putting the ingredients together. First, you have to understand that there is something different about baking sourdough bread, you have to have a "starter". (image source)A "starter" is a fermented combination of yeast, good bacteria, bread and water. Generally, you have to feed it every day, it is alive
First, you have to understand that there is something different about baking sourdough bread, you have to have a "starter".
Generally, you have to feed it every day, it is alive and grows.In the book the main character eats everyday from a place she loves, when the place closes the owners give her the "starter" that they use to make the sourdough bread and let her know that this is a special "starter".
The story is about her journey learning to bake sourdough bread and sharing it with her coworkers, neighbors and a special underground farmer's market.
The fuel rod people had just three customers, and they were rich.”She feels as if everyone is working faster than she is and the pressure is stressing her out to the point that she works very long hours.“I was supposed to be one of the bright new additions, the fresh-faced ones.
To get a special spot, she’s going to need a point of differentiation and the market people discover she knows about robots.And so it goes, with secret sites and a whole community of scientists and artists researching, experimenting and producing goods.
And I love bread.
Bread and I are soul mates.
Cheese, don’t be jealous, you are my other food soul mate.So when a book comes out with the name Sourdough, a batch of magical starter, secret foodie societies and pop culture references aplenty, I’m in!
This was and wasn’t that.It all started well enough.
Our smart and scrappy protagonist does a deep dive into baking netting loaves with faces (yes, faces!), then discovers a secret collective of foodies and meets an Alice Waters-like chef.
All of which kept me reading, but then it started to devolve.
This is not your usual starter!Almost overnight, Lois becomes quite the bread maker and she soon finds it is hard to work full time and make her bread.
Along the way she also meets an underground community who like her, are interested in both technology and food!I liked this book - didn't love it.
This book started great for me and then kind of lost my attention along the way.
I do have to give this book props for originality and creativity.
This book is at times witty, quirky, peculiar, strange, charming and weird.
Yes, there is magical realism and I usually really enjoy that.
A difficult book to rate. Starts mouth-wateringly run-don't-walk to your nearest bakery charmingly versed, but woefully crumbles right at the end. The audiobook reader is phenom!
I adored the first half of this book but the second half was just....so, so odd.
A sourdough starter opens the door to a mysterious underground world in near future San Francisco. Like most Sloan stories, this requires a healthy amount of suspending disbelief, but worth it. This was a very fun read, in fact I feel I should use the word "delightful." I want a spicy sandwich!Carb nerds.. malevolent bread... I feel like giggling again.Thanks to the publisher for providing a copy through Edelweiss.
Who knew that so much could go on in the making of Sourdough bread!So in case the reader is unaware, first we find out about the starter needed to make the bread and then we learn about microbes and what they do, and it is all very factual but delivered in a fun way via story.
We are aware that the starter is a living organism and that the one we are dealing with is very special.
Then the fun starts!I enjoyed the book very much even when it became a little too fanciful.
She is lured from the Detroit auto industry to a cutting edge robotics firm in San Francisco where she works long stressful hours and subsists on a nutritive gel called "Slurry." (Yuck) One day she finds an advertisement taped to her apartment door for a food delivery service with a very limited but enticing menu.
Lois comes to rely on her nightly food delivery and her interaction with the brothers that own the business, Beoreg and Chaiman.
If you enjoyed Sloan's "Mr. Penumbra's 24 Hour Bookstore," you will likely have fun with this.
If you didn't like Penumbra, this book may not be for you.
Lois on a whim feeling the calling of proper food decides to order and soon is a regular rushing home after work for her nightly treat of double spicy soup and sandwich even earning the title of number 1 customer from the two brothers that own the delivery service.
Soon microwavable dinner Lois is brought into the world of culinary arts and later into the niche experimental cooking world combining her robotic knowledge with her Sourdough prowess.
You are brought into a world of deep passion for all things food and then you are brought into a sector of a more niche place within the culinary world experimental cooking; using robots, or creating meals out of bugs.
She accepts the job only to find herself working endless days with no time to make new friends.
Unsure of this strange but simple menu she takes a chance and places an order, thus bringing the Mazg brothers, Beoreg and Chaiman into her life.
Lois orders from the restaurant every night, and in doing so miraculously begins to heal her ailments and loneliness as she becomes friends with the brothers.
When Beoreg and Chaiman have to leave San Francisco, their parting gift to their ‘Number one eater’, as they call her, is the starter for sourdough bread.
I really want some sourdough bread!
The Recipe 1 part Mr. Penumbra's 24-Hour Bookstore formula (bookstore/font = Farmer's Market/sourdough starter) 1 Evil corporation which wants to ruin food1/2 glutinous plot 1/4 overt message 3/4 ridiculous denouement 1/8 tsp technology 8 trite caricatures Mix together and foist on unsuspecting lovers of Mr. Penumbra, collect proceeds.
Lois works at a tech company (duh, it's San Francisco) and one day she sees an advert for a spicy soup and sourdough bread, so she orders it, and becomes obsessed with it and eats it everyday.
I'm paying for network service on it so I know it is working even though your WiFi isn't."Mom: "Oh. Well.
It wasn't acting right one day, it wouldn't even turn on, so he threw it away."Me: "He threw away an iPad?
It probably just needed a good long charge or a software update."Mom, becoming rather indignant: "IT WASN'T WORKING, PAULA.
Because I have also been paying for network service every month."Mom: "Meh. Three or four months ago."Me: "jkldsjhoiewlkejiofjhakfoaoiwjhernhj"Explaining technology to elderly parents is hard.
I had a flashback to that scene yesterday while reading this book and my friend asked me to tell her what the book is about.
The story begins with Lois Clary, 23, gaining success as a software programmer for a robotics company in San Francisco, and already on her way to a probable ulcer with a work schedule like that of a lawyer going for a partnership in a prestigious law firm.
It’s also a story about friendship, community, the effects of technology in our lives, for better or worse, and it’s about culture, the magical one found in the sourdough starter and the one found in San Francisco where farmers markets share space with high tech companies.
She exists on a nutrient mixture called Slurry (doesn't that sound appetising?) and take out pizza until she discovers two brothers who home deliver the most amazing spicy soup with big hunks of sourdough bread.
Lois then receives an invitation to join a special experimental market, the Marrow Fair, that is looking at ways of improving food with technology and she enters an almost magical world where all types of amazing food is being made.This was a lovely and engaging read, full of gentle, charming characters.
Working at the robotics company by day and baking at night, she has little sleep, but is energized.The popular farmer’s market does not accept her but she is welcome at the mysterious underground market where food is being improved with technology, and unique and unusual products are being developed and sold.
Her love of baking and feeding people who enjoy her sourdough bread is overwhelmingly fulfilling and she leaves her programming job to bake full time.This book was charming and fun, with several chapters devoted to The Lois Club, a club Lois was a member of where she attending meetings with other Lois’s in her neighborhood.
I am a huge fan of Mr. Penumbra’s 24-Hour Bookstore and was thrilled to have the opportunity to read Robin Sloan’s new work early; thankfully, Sourdough does not disappoint.
This present sets Lois down a new path she never could have envisioned and changes the course of her life.Although the book seems to take place in present day, the book includes futuristic components such as liquid meal replacement called Slurry consumed by some individuals in lieu of regular food and robotic elements not yet achieved in our everyday life.
I enjoyed all the talk about sourdough and baking — I swear, reading this made my stomach growl.
You’re probably thinking, “What?” Seriously though, annoying is 10x worse than boring/unoriginal.The writing, too, started off strong but got weaker towards the end.
Or maybe I got bored towards the end and that’s why nothing was doing it for me.
I understand that it was trying to look futuristic, but it was an unattractive font style and oddly enough it made me enjoy the novel less.
Overall, a unique magical realism novel; one that was more enjoyable in the beginning than the end.
While not a mystery or thriller, this shortm intensely readable book combines tech and food in San Francisco with a winning protagonist and her arc of development as she leaves Michigan, goes to work for a quite-credible arm robot company, and then one day is given sourdough starter from her favorite cooks, starter that has an unusual history. This novel captures perfectly the foodie and tech ethe or ethea of northern California.Much fun, great read, highly recommended.
I thought I didn’t like the “out there” parts but then I did.
I did enjoy the realistic parts the most: San Francisco, Richmond District, tech person changing course and becoming a bread baker, info about sourdough starter, etc.
But also some of the “out there” parts such as the unique sourdough starter, described so well that at times it seemed realistic and that was how starter worked.
Reading this did make me want to make my own sourdough starter, though the King Arthur’s brand or some San Francisco origin starter would be my choice.Even though I gave this author’s Mr. Penumbra's 24-Hour Bookstore 5 stars and I’m giving this 4 stars, in its own way I enjoyed this just as much.
Whaaaaat is this book? Not even robots can save a book about bread being exactly as interesting as you'd expect a book about bread to be.
