https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133238.Hangover_Square
Often these books will tell you, in a voice like Harvey Fierstein's, but louder and less mellifluous, that Susan Sontag is (I mean, was) an enthusiastic fan of it.
If all else fails, the book will remind you that its primary subject is the holocaust or Stalin's Gulags or the cricket-playing community of New York City after 9/11, so if you aren't interested, maybe you're just morally bad and wrong and evil and mean, in the categorical George W.
At any rate, this sort of book is unassuming and consequently arouses no suspicion in us (the readers) that it might be great or even very good.Hangover Square is the Ally Sheedy kind of book.
Hangover Square is like that, we're squashed up close and personal with big goofy dozy daft alcoholic George Harvey Bone who is besotted, I mean quite utterly gaga, with sometime actress and fulltime casually-vicious alcoholic dropdead gorgeous dimwit Netta Longdon (in my mind played by Helena Bonham Carter but maybe that’s just me - do you think we could get her?).
To achieve a great dissociative effect Hamilton had to resort to constant repetitions when describing those episodes and while annoying at first, eventually they become a hypnotising drumbeat.The hero and the book's main sufferer is George 'Bone', hopelessly obsessed with a failed actress Netta and on a self-destructive path.
And what were Bone's thoughts like, eh?The whole point of the narrative is to convince us that if only there was no Netta, Bone could move to Maidenhead and live a wholesome life.
'Hangover Square' was published in 1941, at the peak of Patrick Hamilton's fame, which was by that time considerable.
In common with almost all of Patrick Hamilton's novels, the story is in part inspired by incidents from Patrick Hamilton's life.
Fitzgerald is the inspiration for Netta and in a sense could be Hamilton's revenge on her given the unflattering portrait..."She was completely, indeed sinisterly devoid of all those qualities which her face and body externally proclaimed her to have - pensiveness, grace, warmth, agility, beauty ...
'Hangover Square' searches for a human metaphor to express the sickness that Hamilton perceived during this period.
At our awkward follow-up date, I was pleased to note that you really weren't bad looking, but our conversation stalled a few minutes in, and neither one of us tried hard to save it.
Maybe if I'd gotten through those initial long awkward pauses and choked down more sake, things would've been fine, hell, they could've been great....
But when I got up to use the bathroom (I didn't really have to go) and saw the door to the street was right there, I chose the easier path, as I'm known to do.Yeah, it could've been great, Pat. It probably would've been.
I really did love Slaves of Solitude, and I'm sure this is great, too.
Sometimes he falls into these “dead moods”, where he seems to switch off from the world around him, but there’s no disguising how nice and vulnerable George Bone is.Unfortunately, at some point, he’s fallen in with a bad crowd, or more specifically a bad woman.
And because he has so pathetically lost his heart and his sense, he keeps following behind with his dreams of an idealised Netta.This then is a tale of a man who has laid out his deepest emotions unwisely and is paying a terrible price.However, when George is having his dead moods he doesn’t just switch off, he becomes a whole other person.
Set in London on the brink of World War II, Hangover Square is a dark tale of loneliness and obsession.
George experiences the whole gamut of emotions in his pursuit of Netta - anger at her inevitable betrayal, followed by relief at his resolution to forget her and move on, until a rare kind word from her sparks a flicker of hope and the whole pathetic cycle starts anew.
There is a real sense of foreboding throughout the novel - not just in George's murderous intentions but also in the inevitably of war's outbreak.
A masterpiece its own right, Hangover Square is the dark young cousin to Patrick Hamilton’s more mature The Slaves of Solitude.
Both focus on the struggles of underdog protagonists in suffocating environments, but The Slaves of Solitude is a twisted social satire and Hangover Square is a twisted psychological thriller.
This was the high point of the book for me and it restored my faith in the basic goodness of people.
(Well, it restored my faith in the basic goodness of people who aren’t total assholes.) I think those happy scenes were so strong that the novel would actually have been better if it had ended there.
Hamilton's ability to write believably from both aspects of a schizophrenic personality is the most enjoyable and impressive aspect for me, the final chapters causing a torrent of conflicting emotional reactions.“It was unmistakably obvious that she was decidedly attractive.
And because of his connection with Fitzgerald, Carstairs & Scott, Johnnie had an extensive knowledge of the external appearance and different modes of behavior of a great variety of attractive women: they came up to the office in shoals, with their nails dipped in blood and their faces covered with pale cocoa.
SLAYS TWO FOUND GASSEDTHINKS OF CATLike Nabokov's Laughter in the Dark, which tells you all and nothing you need to know in the first sentences, the trajectory of George Harvey Bone's life is clear from the start of Hangover Square. The brilliance of Hamilton's writing urges us on. Bone's schizoid personality dominates, but snapshots of other personalities make minor, yet critical appearances. The brief, scintillating peek into the ghastly Netta's subconscious is unforgettable. It's not perfect--the book is needlessly split into eleven parts each unnecessarily prefaced with bits from Roget's Thesaurus and Milton's Samson Agonistes--but it is mesmerizing.
The subtitle of the novel is “a story of darkest Earl's Court" and it is certainly dark...If dark is a novel that opens up with an alcoholic experiencing a click (basically an alcoholic blackout) during which” he remembered, without any difficulty, what it was he had to do: he had to kill Netta Longdon." That’s just the beginning, it get worse…for the George the protagonist, things just seem to go downhill.
Netta has poor George in her net (as her name indicates), pushing him lower and lower…The novel is well written...Not that I would know what an alcoholic blackout looks like, but it is all nicely described…not just the alcoholic mind,but the setting, the time period, people and everything… The time line of the story is a bit relative, yet it fits the novel...
Patrick Hamilton's novels focus on those on the margins of life - the world of seedy bedsits, pubs and near poverty.
George Harvey Bone spends his time in Earls Court, often meaning to make a new start of things, but drawn to the unpleasant and vicious Netta Longdon.
You hope that George manages to break free of the awful Netta and his drunken existence, while sympathising with his inability to start afresh.
Hamilton is an author who deserves not to be forgotten - he has a deft touch and a real feeling for the underdog.
I read it as part of a book club, none of us had ever heard of it before including two members who had done English degrees [I, myself did English A level and yet had never heard of Patrick Hamilton!].What ever you do DON'T read the introduction which gives the plot away and therefore really spoils the book [witnessed by those members of our book group who did do this, although they did still love the book - it just lost the tension].It was one of those books for me that once you have finished it you feel so sad because you can never read it again for the first time.
Three of the last six that I have read followed similar plot lines, all centered around murder.
The common thread seems to be madness, with a self administered program of brain washing leading up to the act.
The logic necessary to justify slaying another is as individual as a snowflake, and equally insubstantial.
The murderer must have the logical impetus, but it is self imposed and most likely delusional.
My consolation is that only a small percentage of the mentally ill are predisposed to violence.
This makes me want to promote Mental Health Awareness and remind everyone to stay on their meds, I promise I will.
Poor dismal schizophrenic George Harvey Bone, in desperate puppy-love with a goldigging woman who loathes him, both part of a hard-drinking, pub-hopping, loafing, late-sleeping circle of acquaintances in squalid Earl's Court, London - on paper, it sounds like something I would hate.
Hamilton's writing is lovely; his voice is humane and understanding, and although written in 1941 the novel's dialogue feels less dated than Iris Murdoch's, for example.
Very early on George, in one of his out-of-body, schizophrenic episodes, understands that he is meant to kill Netta, and as the novel unfolds we are kept wondering if, when, and how this will happen.
I have to thank Tosh and Kimley for leading me to this book. Their reviews told me it was a must read, and it certainly was. It went down like water but tasted like stale beer and gin. Reading it was like impotently watching a dear friend self-destruct - compelling and harrowing. Now it doesn't sound like I should be thanking them - stale beer, self-destruction, what? Gee thanks. But it's written so well...
He's slipping into the grip of schizophrenia, suffering blackouts when he has a completely different attitude towards Netta.....he needs to kill her.
While his grasp of the facts about schizophrenia may not be completely accurate, he still manages to capture George's descent into madness with a nightmarish quality that rings true, not to mention his ability to transport readers to the less savory side of Earl's Court as war looms on the horizon.A true classic that should be on every reader's book shelf.Highest possible recommendation.
He was sane enough. If you didn’t count the ‘dead’ moods, he was sane enough. In fact he was probably too sane, too normal. Hangover Square is a darkly comical, rarely sober, atmospheric trip through the streets and pubs of prewar London.Despite this book being on my radar for many years, it never made its way into my hands; probably because it was neither an exciting new release, nor a quite-famous-enough classic for me to make it a priority. But the release of this 75th Anniversary Edition ma
Hangover Square is a darkly comical, rarely sober, atmospheric trip through the streets and pubs of prewar London.Despite this book being on my radar for many years, it never made its way into my hands; probably because it was neither an exciting new release, nor a quite-famous-enough classic for me to make it a priority.
Both books hover on a precipice, a time of change and realization in their respective societies - a crumbling British Empire on the brink of war, and a Hollywood whose sparkling American Dream glitter fades in the harsh light of day.In this book, we follow George Harvey Bone, his infatuation with the loathsome Netta, and his "dead" moments - times when his mind slips away from him and he becomes clear on only one thing: he must murder Netta.
Set principally in Earls Court and Brighton on the eve of WWII and first published in 1941 the book captures I feel (before my time though!) the smells, sights and sounds of the time; in particular British drinking culture – as the title might imply!It is the story of the outsider, especially of George, the central character.
George reminds me in an odd way of Stoner (John Williams) because of his apparent ordinariness.
The first definition to appear in the book holds the “key”, at least to a better understanding of George.
A definite re-read.
This book is the tragic story of George Harvey Bone, who cuts a forlorn figure across London in his unrequited love for a woman undeserving of him.
Impossible, also, not to think of Hamilton's own alcoholism and romantic disasters - he fell in love with a prostitute who did not reciprocate his affections - when reading the novel.
I couldn't stop thinking about this book for days after I finished it, always indicative to me of a great read.
After all, I think we all know a 'Bone', or at least someone who could become like him.
The story follows pathetic lost soul George Harvey Bone, a character whose inner turmoil is so real that you can't help rooting for him throughout all the bad decisions & ill-advised glasses of beer.
Hamilton so perfectly sustains a mood of tension & inevitable tragedy that even Bone's few triumphant moments will leave you hollow.
I don't like talking about plot so I'll just leave you with the advice that if you meet a woman named Netta, run for the hills!Very real characters, a relentless inertia, and dare I say the added romance of a "lost classic" make this a bullseye in my book.
GOD I LOVED THIS BOOK.
Maybe my state of mind is currently warped, as I spent the whole time rooting for him, hating that bitch, but understanding why he was weak.I got a bit..
about 7/8 of the way through...
I wish I could find more books like this as randomly as I found this one...
I'm hardly every gripped, hardly ever relate to a character I have nothing in common with (i hope - ha) but still, people are bitches, and they hurt you, and everything sucks, so its good to know everyone eventually dies, even if you have to kill them.
Poor George Bone is doomed from the opening page. Obsessed with the cold hearted and scheming Netta, he is an accident waiting to happen. Befuddled by alcohol and with a mental illness you know early on that George won't fair well. The setting of a seedy Earls Court in 1939 is a fitting backdrop to this bleak and harrowing story.Strong characterisation of both the primary and secondary characters make this well worth sourcing.The second novel I've read by the author and it reads on par with the wonderful Slaves of Solitude.
Sorry for that, I promise from now on it will all be about the book (i.e. my experience of reading it).I once wrote a review for this one and I thought the best way to describe this novel would be by calling it ‘A diary of obsession’ because simply that was the first thing that came to my mind at the time.
Netta has poor George in her net (as her name indicates), pushing him lower and lower and as readers we just can’t help but to feel for him.The novel is well written, I concluded that when I read it for the first time and I still hold onto that opinion.
But the cruel Netta has no interest in Bone and viciously humiliates him every chance that she gets while also borrowing money from him.
It is while drinking with the guys that Bone has the most fun in the novel.
I completely identified with this weak and forlorn man, unable to survive in an increasingly cruel world.
While Bone recognizes what Netta really stands for, he is unable to tear himself away from her insidious allure.
I read a few Graham Greene novels this year and most of them involve conflicted men staving off sadness by consuming copious amounts of alcohol.
This novel is not too different.
"Hangover Square" left me feeling sad and light at the same time: it was a journey of suffering together with the main character - a hapless George Harvey Bone, a someone lacking a backbone, a "funny man" with "dumb moods" (suffering from occasional mental blackouts) - and a jubilation at the end that may appear completely inappropriate for that ending.The novel is set in a pre-WWII London and follows a group of idle, not employed 30 something boozers with no evident life pursuits or aspirations.
But "Hangover Square" (British slang for the way a heavy drinker feels the morning after, as in "taking a walk around Hangover Square") is apprently his most famous novel, and Doris Lessing, for one, thinks he is a hugely overlooked author from the 30s who deserves more recognition and was a better writer than Isherwood or Auden.I indeed admired Hamilton's writing and his way of creating characters and immersing you in the mind of his protagonist in this novel, but despite his skills, I felt as though the pacing could have been streamlined as this sad tale moved toward a seemingly inevitable conclusion.
George is a pretty hopeless case, he drinks too much, he doesn't work (and does not quite have enough money to drink and not work), he is infatuated with an unsuitable woman and a he is a potential murderer.
Whatever course of action George takes, it is unlikely to end well for him.George's potential victims are Netta, the extremely dislikeable young woman George is infatuated with, and Peter, a violent and equally dislikeable fascist.
You can't feel at all sorry that they might be killed.The book contains plenty of Hamilton's well observed detailing of the fringe society, pub culture and milieu these characters inhabit.
George Harvey Bone suffers from multiple personality disorder, which seems to worsen the more he drinks.
He finds himself associating with a crowd of low-life alcoholic Londoners, one of which is Netta Longdon, a beautiful but nasty piece of work.
Netta is a manipulative, cold woman who uses men for their money and connections.
She consumes Bone's world, driving him deep into despair with her cruel, remorseless treatment.
As Bone's personality shifts, he goes from desperate and sorrowful to emotionless and vengeful, wanting nothing but to kill Netta Longdon.
He has friends on the outside of the group willing to help him, as well as family he can go to, but each time things are looking up for him, Netta begins to feign an interest, dragging him back into the lives of her sniggering friends at the worst possible moment, all of them jealous that he has a chance.This isn’t an easy read by any means, but within the grimness there is great humour, and Hamilton creates a vivid picture of Britain (London particularly) on the brink of war, its population's habits and their politics laid bare.
