https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/164434.James_Joyce
Or to escape from it.And then, to add to the pertinence of these two biographies, both Joyce and Marcel Proust constructed their works out of their own lives.
Not having read Finnegans Wake, sections of this biography I will have to revisit if I ever embark on that work of the night in Joyce's own language.An additional attraction of Ellmann’s version is that he is keen in pursuing the writers Joyce met and what he read, as well as in collecting his comments and views on literature.
This biography then offers a rich knot of additional literary threads that I long to disentangle.
He took his own sweet time producing his works and apart from a few poems and a play, there are only four: Dubliners, A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, Ulysses and Finnegans Wake.
His brother wrote :I don’t know whether the drivelling rigmarole…is written with the deliberate intention of pulling the reader’s leg or not…Or perhaps – a sadder supposition – it is the beginning of softening of the brain.but Joyce took no notice and carried on his by now completely incomprehensible way for another 16 years and though nobody understood a word of what he was writing they continued to pay him, that’s how much they knew he was a genius.
I read this years ago.This book was just recommended to me and searching through the shelves I came across this very dusty book in my biographies' section.If you want to know everything about Joyce then this is the ideal book for you but it is rather long at over 800 pages, 887 to be precise, including the index.
I went through a "biography period" and I seemed to end up with tomes and not books.There are some fabulous photos of Joyce, and his family, and a splendid one of Joyce with Augustus John.
Probably the best biography I have read, regardless of subject. Fluidly written and perfectly balanced between the analytical and the personal. And, more importantly, it tells us about one of the greatest artists our species has ever produced, one whose life deeply informed and influenced his Art.
Bah!” -- James Joyce“I’ve got a special place prepared...” -- Dante“My Lucifer=Satan is more real.” -- Milton“Beg to report!” -- Švejk “Having read Ellmann’s biography, like reading Finnegans Wake, will certainly make the most entrenched Joyceans almost unendurable to the wider world.” -- J.
Ellmann ruined biography.” -- Franzen“Joyce very much liked spanking the maid.” -- Coover“Thanks and sorry and good luck!” -- Lee K.“Ten stories high And twenty the deepings....We reed in the rushes Of joycfull mehindings” -- Fion You Allah“Well you probably see this coming, but in my opinion, Dick’s book about Jim is just * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *” -- Larry Stars “Puns are the highest form of literature.” — Alfred Hitchcock“An ode to Joyce which rivals mine own.” -- Earwigger van Beethoven“Enthralling.
«Ό,τι κι αν έκανε, τα ύφος βασικά του ενδιαφέροντα - η οικογένεια του και το γράψιμό του - ήταν ακλόνητα. Τα πάθη αυτά έμειναν αμείωτα. Η ένταση του πρώτου έδωσε στο έργο του την κατανόηση και την ανθρωπιά του- η ένταση του δεύτερου έδωσε στη ζωή του αξιοπρέπεια και βαθιά αφοσίωση.»Συγκλονιστική βιογραφία.
The ingenuity with which he wrote his books was the same with which he forced the world to read them; the smiling affection he extended to Bloom and his other principal characters was the same that he gave to the members of his family; his disregard for bourgeois thrift and convention "was the splendid extravagance which enabled him in literature to make an intractable wilderness into a new state.
The intensity of the first gave his work its sympathy and humanity; the intensity of the second raised his life to dignity and high dedication.
In this truly fascinating biography, Richard Ellman presents the entirety of James Joyce: his family, both natal and his family with Nora; his rather strained relationship with Ireland coupled with a love affair of sorts with the city of Dublin; his varied relationships with contemporary writers in Europe; his love of the musical world; his many relocations throughout the continent; his love of language; and of course his writing.
And I will definitely read the section for Finnegans Wake if/when I reach that book.Joyce was undoubtedly a genius, a conflicted man, a difficult man, a man who, in his own way, loved his family but also expected the world and everyone in it to move to his drum.
Fantástico, es una de las biografías más completas de Joyce
This is THE biography of the great Joyce who brought us my favorite book of all time, Ulysses. It provides a fascinating account of Joyce's life and relationships as well of course as the sources and inspirations for his books including Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man to Finnegan's Wake. It is considered by most as one of the greatest biographies of an author written in the 20th C. I would tend to agree as it is highly readable and full of valuable insights.
The usefulness of the Ellmann bio is its use as a key to understanding the man who wrote of, among others the longest day on record.There were problems with this biography of James Joyce.
It felt like there was too much information about Joyce's private life that I simply did not care to know and did not need to know.
Joyce wrote with the mind-set of a master craftsman composing to the musicality of his words and his incredible memory that absolutely absorbed life!
What Ellmann does show us is that it would have been difficult to have to explain yourself as Joyce.
As Joyce matured I felt the sense of being present with James in the spirit and pace of Ellmann's telling.
James Joyce reincarnated in all of his complex devilish glory.
Or maybe there's no difference between the living and dead...and mine was simply one of his revolving addresses...which I think would tickle our pal Jim."P.S. The devil mostly speaks a language of his own called Bellyshabble which he makes up himself as he goes along but when he is very angry he can speak quite bad French very well though some who have heard him say that he has a strong Dublin accent." James Joyce, "The Cat and the Devil", written to Stephen, his grandson
I would listen while I walked at work, and while listening, I was transported to the same places as Joyce, and I felt like I was there next to him, and this made this experience that much more magical.
Ellmann's book increased the appreciation for all of these, that much more.
Now I must complete FINNEGANS WAKE; Even Nora Barnacle thought it to be the best:"What's all this talk about Ulysses, Finnegans Wake is the important one."One of the saddest parts in this listening and reading experience, for me, was during the completion of FINNEGANS WAKE.
а что происходит при этом у Джойса в голове - этого даже Эллманн (Биограф с большой буквы, как называет его Хоружий) не знает - он вообще не трактует фактов, не домысливает и не спекулирует ни на чем, в отдельных местах в отношении объекта сквозит лишь обаятельная сухая ирония.более частный урок: мало того, что в юности Джойс был тот еще фрукт, что хорошо известно, он еще и полной мере грешил - гораздо непростительнее (лично для меня) - тем, что при риторической критике чужих работ смешивал "я не понимаю / мне не нравится" = "это плохо".
And the fact that he drove his loved ones, companions, and pretty much all his contemporaries absolutely crazy doesn't escape him for a bit.The Joyce I've been getting is someone worth reading about, even if he did not happen to be the greatest writer of the 20th Century (my bias notwithstanding).I'm definitely going to have to get my hands on Ellmann's "yeats" and "wilde" sometime down the road.
He writes with a polished grace and suave irony, with a real reverence for the creative products of a deeply illuminated man.
This is not always--dare I say, often not--true.
Less true of Ellmann here.
Of course, I read this when I was a Teaching Assistant in a Joyce course, so I had an added impetus tofind it of interest.
For example, in a minute detail that I quote to this day, James Joyce when applying to teach English in Italy, did better on his Italian exam than on his English.
If the greatest prose stylist of 20C English did less well on his English test, clearly the exam was wanting--as most general exams prove, upon examination.
Exams function best when focused--on a book, on a course, on a proof of the Mean Value Theorem.
A detailed look at James Joyce's life that doesn't really try and hide some of his negative aspects, Richard Ellmann's biography is a blast, a book that's both drenched in detail and a compelling read.
Maybe it's because she was a private person but maybe it reflects Ellmann's attitude to someone who never bothered reading any of Joyce's novels.
Recommended, especially if you've always thought of Joyce as one of those writers that's too hard to get into to bother reading.
I'm sure reading Wake is anything but a breeze, but damn, Ellmann makes it sound like a blast.
I'll admit that it's as often boring as it is interesting but that's just because of how absolutely thorough it is.
And the touch that makes his approach work is also how he appraises Joyce from an academic perspective: not only is he chronicling Joyce's life but his art as well.
I suppose that's unavoidable considering how much of his life Joyce put in his works but that critical perspective gives the angle that makes this worth reading.
And beyond that, the minutiae and anecdotes are interesting as well.
This is, quite certainly, become my favorite work of nonfiction.
Ellmann also includes helpful sections of literary analysis, providing an excellent background on all of the minutiae regarding Dublin life that makes up  Ulysses , as well as providing a concise and persuasive defense of Joyce's last and most contentious work,  Finnegan's Wake .
If you have even a passing interest in Joyce or his work, this comes highly recommended.
Although, due to its density and length, I'd recommend diving into Edna O'Brien's more compact biography first as a warm-up.
Every writer should have biography in this same style as Bosworth's Life of Johnson.
Straight to the point, like a clock with a transparent face, you see what material was the source of every bit of information, as the letter or anecdote or book is either copied right there or noted in the back.
It is a fine example of a well-wriiten bio as well as a good picture of what the man was like.
Compared to most writers he is pretty tame.
He happened to know how good he was and demanded he make it into print.
Previous training and hubris allowed me to waltz into the Joycean buzzsaw completely blind. That summer of 1994 I was recovering from knee surgery, catching a bad relationship in the solar plexus and discovering the World Cup. This tome was such a wellspring of delight during the hot, heady, and hobbled days of that summer.
This book tracks, over the course of (I argue) 1,490 pages, the progression of Joyce's work, where and when he wrote certain things, what inspired him to write certain things, where he rewrote and revised certain things, and, finally, where, how and when he published things.There's also invaluable commentary concerning all of Joyce's works, which reallllly makes me want to tick this up to a 5/5 score because I know for certain that I will, inevitably, return to this book later when I rekindle that annual interest in Ulysses and, new to me due this book's excellent criticism and thoughts, "The Dead" from Joyce's Dubliners.It's a great book, super impressive, and surprisingly beneficial critically speaking in regards viewing and appreciating the work of Joyce.But here's my problem---I don't give a fuck about the work of author's when I read their bio.
Hearing with Audible the 37 hours of James Joyce's Biography written by Richard Ellmann made me open my eyes to the extraordinary life of Joyce, from a young man in Ireland to his adulthood in Trieste, Paris and Zurich.
As a schoolboy in Ireland, James Joyce read the Odyssey, and this book would be the leitmotiv of his Ulysses published in Paris in 1921.
Living in Paris after the First World War gave him the opportunity to take short trips to Amsterdam and Bretagne, and in each occasion he profited to hear the way people spoke and Richard Ellmann shows these relations with the making of the last book, Finnegans Wake.
The lengths Ellmann must have gone to are astonishing, and the result is often brilliant; it even made me want to read Finnegans Wake, with its thorough explanation of Joyce's process in writing it.
Some of the anecdotes about Joyce (his spider-dance, his singing, his drunken antics, his quips, the time he slept on Yeats' sofa on his way to Paris aged 20, his elaborate plan to stop his father finding out that he was eloping to Europe with Nora) are utterly hilarious.
This biography read like a novel at times—when Joyce died after 740 pages (just over the length of Ulysses, ironically), I felt like I'd lost a friend.
“Estou certo porém de que toda estrutura do heroísmo é, e sempre foi, uma maldita mentira, e de que não pode haver nenhum substituto para a paixão individual como força motivadora de tudo incluindo arte e filosofia.”[246] J.Joyce by Richard Ellmann
Don't bother, a giant tomb and a definite yawner!
Will finish the final portion when (if) I ever get to FW
The best literary biography ever written (maybe the best biography, period). Essential reading for anyone who care about modern literature and the nature of genius.
This is a massive book, probably the best biography of James Joyce available.
What more could you want to know?
