https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1374590.Little_Witch
This was my favorite book as a child.
Last night when I added it to my shelf here on Goodreads, I read many peoples' comments about how much they loved it and lamented it was no longer in print.
Upon learning that it was out of print, I was glad to have my copy.
But when I looked for it, I couldn't find it!
Instead of my purple Little Witch, I had some other purple witch book that I do not recall at all.
I must have unintentionally given away the wrong book.
I was very surprised and happy to find my purple Little Witch!
Oh my heck!
I'm not even sure what I just read!I know I had this book as a child and, as such, I'm sure I read it many times, but not one word of this book rang a bell for me.
Reading it now is plain astonishing to see how different it is from more modern beginning reader/middle grade offerings.4 stars for this one, mostly for nostalgia (even though I don't actually remember it), but also for making laugh out loud several times with its vintage dialogue.Awesome Female Character score: 5/5 -- Minx the little witch is one determined chickie!
So when I read Little Witch, I was gobsmacked to discover poor Minikin living in dread fear of her mother, Madam Snickasnee, a most evil witch, one who delights in turning innocent children — well, except for that delinquent Billy Martin — into flowerpots and in otherwise terrorizing her town.
I’d forgotten that witches for centuries were feared.
She longs to live as a normal girl, but the neighborhood children flee at her appearance, crying Witch’s child!” She spends her nights, while her mother flies out on her broomstick, trying unsuccessfully to conjure up a fairy.
How often I had wanted to find out that I had been kidnapped, so many times I locked my self in the bathroom and prayed, bargained, pleaded, and even wiggled my nose like Tabitha in the hopes that my life would be transformed.
That night my life was truly transformed for the first time.
I learned to make up stories in my head when I didn't have a book to read at that moment.
It now rests on a special shelf with a few other treasured books from that time in my life, along with my special hardbacks of the Harry Potter series.
This was my absolute favorite children's book when I was a young child. I signed it out of the school library so many times that I filled up the library card a few times. A few years ago, I was working in the library in an elementary school (different town), and they had a stack of books that they were discarding, and lo and behold...there was the book! I asked if I could keep it and they said yes. I hope some day that my daughter may like to read it.
In elementary school (second & third & fourth grades) I read this over & over & over & over. Story of a little girl witch who wants to be nice and have friends, but who has an evil witch mother who does everything she can to squelch her good side. I felt a lot of affection for the little witch and loved being on her side. It was great fun whenever she was able to outwit her mother!
Minikin "Minx" Snickasee was a witch's child, or so she thought...
dreams that she was NOT the daughter of a witch, but a fairy instead...
The family became her saving grace, and Madame Snickasee, the old witch, was made to pay for her crimes against children and humanity in general.
And, best of all, she found that her dreams were real, and her mother, her REAL mother, was a Wood Nymph Fairy, placed under an enchantment by Madame Snickasee!
Her mother, Moonfire, came to stay with Grandma and Frances' family, and Minikin finally had all the love she'd craved...
This was one of my very favorite books as a child - I checked it out from the library multiple times a year. I was glad to have the chance to read it as an adult. Of course, it's not the same now - but I can see how it captured my imagination. I had many day-dreams about mixing different colors of potions :)
I drove my grade-school librarian nuts, because all I wanted were books about children who were witches. Actually, i just wanted about 40 more books like this one. I believe her name was Dory, which is still one of my favorite names ever since.
The tale of independent Minikin, or "Minx," enchanted me as a first-grader when I dearly loved the hardcover edition in the Snail Lake Elementary library.
The fourth-grader Minx bravely steps away from the cruel world of witchery, longing for a conventional life; but she learns to embrace the upside of black magic.
Karl Ove Knausgaard, in Volume 3 of "My Struggle," mentions his memory of reading a novel called "The Little Witch" at the age of 8.
I'm not sure if this was the same novel he read, but this is the "Little Witch" that so touched my young soul.
Like many other posters, I read and re-read this story many times as a child and have searched both brick and mortar and online book sellers in vain for this story.
I was so pleased to read Melissa McCann's post about it being digitized and available at ePub. I downloaded it on my iPhone as soon as I read that post and imported it into Stanza.
If you missed her post and are searching for this book, you can find it here: you can read it on your computer or import into an ereader device: http://www.epubbud.com/book.php?g=Q4A...
I've read this short paperback book multiple times in my life (most of them during elementary school) and found it magical and delightful every time.
The story of Minx (Minikin Snikasnee--the name itself shows you why it's a delightful little book!) as the reluctant witch's daughter who just wants to be a normal little girl and have normal friends probably resonates with the outcast inside all of us.
The pen and ink illustrations by Helen Stone are sweet--when I purchased the book I had to be sure the illustrations were the same as I remembered from my childhood experiences.
The kids and I just finished this book last night. They really enjoyed it. We read a couple chapters each night, and they couldn't wait to get back to it. I recently found it at my library, and I remember this is the first chapter book I read "all by myself" when I was probably in about second grade. I didn't recall a thing about it, but the title has always stuck in my mind, so I really must have liked it then too!
I loved this book and haven't been able to find a copy in years (I always checked it out from the library). I just found an epub copy online! No illustrations--which were part of what I loved about the original book--but the story is just as I remembered it!http://www.epubbud.com/book.php?g=Q4A...
I don't know if this is really a classic, but it was to me. I read this when I was 8 or 9 and it fueled my imagination! It has everything: kindred spirits, the mystery of unknown parentage, witches, potions, and a vulnerable little girl who dreams of a happy family. I still have the tattered old hardcover and guard it like gold.
This is one of those books I remember with such clarity and fondness from my childhood. I can remember, some years ago (still years after I had actually read it), finding it again and reading it... And discovering that it's just as charming and agreeable a little book as it was when I was four or five. I think "darling" might be the only word to describe it.
This was the book that got me hooked on reading. I loved it and read over and over. I remember having to do a book report on this book.
Old classic - this is a reprint for the 60th Anniversary. The Amazon blurb says it's for those who like Percy Jackson or Harry Potter, but I don't think most will find them to be comparable. So, a fun re-read for those who remember this as a childhood favorite especially for Halloween. I may try it for a read aloud with the older GK's ages 8 and 11 - there are some difficult words and many old fashioned references -still a cute story. 4 stars
Minikin ("Minx") is the daughter of the much-feared witch Madam Snickasnee, who turns innocent children into flower pots, stirs up dangerous brews in her cauldron and refuses to allow her only child to attend school.
When she begins going to school against her mother's wishes, Minx makes some new friends, and together they all try to use Madam Snickasnee's potions to conjure up a fairy who might be able to help them turn her flower pots back into children and maybe even rescue Minx from her unhappy home life.I read this book aloud to my three and five year old daughters in the days just before Halloween, and they were completely riveted.
This is one of those books my mother, my teachers, and their friends all encouraged me to read as a child.
It is a perfect 1950's children's book-- the sort of book which will hook a young reader and make them voracious for words the rest of their life.
It's beautiful and I understand, but it's not something for me-- reading this book for the first time in my 30's.
I recommend it to all children who are just about to read their first chapter book.
Poor Minx (Minikin) does not want to be a witch, let alone the child of the nasty Mistress Snickasee. But when she escapes during the daytime and meets Frances and other regular children, she at last finds a way out (though some people get turned into Busy Lizzie plants temporarily) and finds out that things are not as they seem.I adored this as a child especially for the vivid scenes of Minx mixing potions.
This was the first book I ever checked out from the book mobile as a child of 7. I have loved this book for more than 45 years and remember how motivated I was to forge a long term relationship with the public library system and this book was one reason.
It was okay, a bit dated. The "good" women were beautiful goddesses who were nurturing, enjoyed cooking and cleaning, and were socially impeccable. The "bad" women were a bit gruff, uncaring, and did not enjoy cooking, cleaning, or house-keeping. But, if you can get past that it was cute.
My mom loved this book from when she was young. She found it and gave it to me and I LOVED IT!! It's an amazing book that is fun and timeless and lets any little girl day dream about broom rides and tall black hats.
I had a great librarian in Elementary School. Because I was obsessed with the show Bewitched, she thought I would like this book. I was in second grade, and I not only loved it, I read it over and over. This little book about magic opened the magic of reading for me.
I loved this book when I was a kid and have been wondering what the name of it was. Someone just posted a note about it in a forum I frequent and I recognized the cover immediately. I used to wish that MY mother was an evil witch so that I wouldn't have to do the dishes either.
One of my all-time favorite books to read to children. Witchy parents aren't who you think they are. And you might not be who you are, too. Great ideas for children...
I LOVED this book in the 3rd grade! I remember trying to see how many times I could read the book that year...I think I got past 25 times! Dedication for a 9 year old!!
i didn't think much of this book when I saw the cover while pulling it off the shelf. But wow, magic spells and HUGE misconceptions, this book it amazing-ly great!
I love this book! I grew up on it and read it often. I used to check it out at the library at me school several times every year!lol
