https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7170627-the-emperor-of-all-maladies
It's a symptom of Mukherjee's vagueness of purpose that he often refers to the book as a "biography of cancer", as if that phrase had meaning.(b) A complete, fatal, inability to leave anything out.
Everyone the author spoke to during the five years researching the book gets a mention, it would seem.
Where non-fiction is concerned, the reader has a right to expect the author to take the trouble to shape his material into some kind of coherent whole, recognizing that while some details are critical, others are not, and pruning accordingly.
Anna CancerinaWhat a masterpiece.
With beautiful metaphors, poignant case studies, breath-taking science and delectable literary allusions, Siddhartha Mukherjee takes us on a detailed yet panoramic trip spanning centuries.
Probably one of the best science books I have ever read.My favorite parts in the book are the literary allusions that capture the depth and feeling of what is being described so well, such as Cancer Ward, Alice in Wonderland, Invisible Cities, Oedipus Rex and many more.
This book took me over a year to read.
A couple of pages and a pound or so every week.
I had previously tried to read the book in the proper way but failed.
It might be assumed that the cancer itself is on the upsurge, but no, it was rare because people died from it, now they live with it, so just like AIDS, it is no longer a killer but a chronic disease.7-star book.
It was January 2008 when I heard the words, “We think she has leukemia.” She was four years old.In the prologue of “The Emperor of All Maladies—A Biography of Cancer” by Siddartha Mukherjee, he wrote, “…the arrival of a patient with acute leukemia still sends a shiver down the hospital’s spine—all the way from the cancer wards on its upper floors to the clinical laboratories buried deep in the basement.
It is only upon the perch of her wellness that I can dig deep into the darkest corners of cancer and extract understanding.I hold this book, this gem, like a shield of valor as I continue to face the beast that is cancer—even in remission it’s there.
Cancer fucking sucks.
I anticipated a similarity to a favorite book of 2010, The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, but this book dives much deeper into the history of cancer, while interweaving personal accounts of patients the author treated.
This biography is different from anything I have read this year; poignant, lyrical, accessible- and most of all, real.
Living, and breathing along with his patients, Siddhartha Mukherjee dives deep into the dark and the light side of cancer, and explores not only how the diseases spreads within the body, but through the lives of his patients, and the doctors and scientists who strived to defeat this complicated, deadly disease.
Great read.
هو بمثابة تاريخ لرحلة معاناة عدد كبير من المرضى مع مرض السرطانمؤلم لكنه صادق وعفوي، لم يعجبني فقط التكرار الزائد أحياناً
Waiting for us.In The Great War and Modern Memory, Paul Fussell talks a lot about the irony of the First World War. Cancer, in the same way, is a deeply ironic disease.
And I would have gotten away with it, too, if it wasn't for you pesky oncologists.So this book is frightening, and you do have to brace yourself to read endless variants on the phrase ‘unfortunately it had metastasized inoperably into her liver and brain’ over and over again; however, balancing this terror is the very real intellectual thrill of following the generations of doctors and scientists who have tried to understand and fight the disease.The fight has got a bit more sophisticated than it used to be.
What sticks with me most is that no one in cancer research really knows what they're doing, but the strength of truly great doctors lies in knowing that, instead of assuming the arrogant position that you've found the only way and other possibilities are laughable.I did not know that this book won the Pullitzer this year when I read it, but it deserves every piece of praise it gets.
I will admit it was very hard to read this book with my 29-year-old sister so struck by (and dying of) breast cancer.
I am a big blubbery crybaby when I'm reading a book, but I'm gonna have to get over that if I'm going to get through The Emperor of All Maladies.
I almost bailed at page five because it was obvious that reading this would involve an intolerable amount of weeping on public transit, but then I realized that what I must do is master myself.I'm too old to be crying all the time!
I'm going to read this book and I'm going to put a wrench to the waterworks!
I'm gonna save my tears for sentimental nineteenth-century fiction!
I hope this doesn't give me tear-duct cancer or something.
So often thought hovering on the brink of defeat, it has always managed to elude its pursuers, and perhaps the proliferation of pathways hints that protein folding and recombinance will form no more a panacea than did adjuvant radiotherapy forty years ago.warning, the following are personal conjectures of a precocious computer scientist: The evolution, for instance, of repressed metastasis suppressors or disabled anti-oncogenes coding for "undruggable" proteins -- those lacking differentiated bonding sites along the cell membrane (see breast and ovarian cancer's infamous HER2/neu, so efficaciously targeted by Herceptin, for a counterexample), or deeply interwoven with non-renewable, inaccessible host material (eg meningioma, gliosarcoma) -- would require wholly new avenues of treatment (hence the sprezzaturic gamma knife -- "from the rain of the cobalt, O Lord, deliver us".
Yet, authorities have reason to believe that patients at this clinic died under suspicious circumstances.The drug in question, 3BP, has shown promising results in early testing and is cautiously referred to as a potential breakthrough treatment for cancer by some researchers.
And so the unthinkable happened: Mukherjee made me read 600 pages on cancer in a little over a week, and he didn't even hold a gun to my head.Cancer is a collective noun for hundreds of diseases, and every time we think we have figured out one tiny piece of the puzzle for one of those diseases, cancer races ahead of us, adapting and evolving to wreak havoc again, undisturbed for yet another decade.
Good explanations into the research behind the mechanism of action and the targets of some cancer drugs in use today.
Siddhartha Mukherjee writes with a style that is not dry or indigestible like a lot of science-heavy material but instead gives a very human touch to a topic that could seem tough and difficult to grasp in lesser hands.
Highly recommended.If you enjoy the section on cancer biology and want to know more about basic human genetics then I would also highly recommend The Gene: An Intimate History also written by Siddhartha Mukherjee.
Done!! Phew!!Everything you've ever wanted to know, and didn't want to know about cancer. While this is not light reading, it's interesting reading.
My stars make more sense when you align them with genre or category than title perhaps.Take a book like The Emperor of Maladies: A Biography of Cancer by Siddhartha Mukherjee.
How do the 5 stars I’m going to rate this book stand along side a butcher thriller that I’ve rated this highly too?This was a book group book and I worried that some would find the topic overally depressing to read or that others, cancer survivors themselves, might be emotionally upset.
Dr. Mukherjee presents a well researched book, though not easy to read, one in layman’s terms and simple to understand.
Yet it seems the more we know about cancer the more difficult a cure-all feels.There is a plethora of cancers out there so the book mainly focuses on leukaemia, breast cancer, but also lesser known ones like Hodgkin’s disease and an eye-opening chapter on lung cancer.It starts with looking at the history of medicine and advancement of surgery.
Books like The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, When the Air Hits Your Brain: Tales of Neurosurgery, and my favourite Pandora's Lab: Seven Stories of Science Gone Wrong presents scientific facts in a slightly more engaging way.Recommended for readers who have a personal interest in cancer and who will be willing to slog through some complicated concepts to get to the nuggets.
"It alters your habits...Everything becomes magnified." This statement is so terrifying that it always rings in your subconscious mind while reading this book.
You feel sad when you read that people who have strived to fight cancer and find a cure themselves died of the disease (ironic isn't it ?).
You feel a sense of despondency and helplessness when doctors break the news of diagnosis of the disease to their patients, especially so, when it has reached a stage beyond cure.
You feel gloomy for patients clamouring for a ray of hope to find a cure.Folks, it would be apt if you read on kindle.
The next two hundred pages are about the long struggles in surgery, radiation and chemotherapy to fight cancer.
Then the last two hundred pages launch into prevention, genetics and more pharmacology.With the scientific terminology toned down and explained as best as the author could, I felt I was reading a quasi-textbook.
came into the picture one at a time as the account traveled through discovery, treatment, prevention and palliation.
And then each cancer's backstory, current status and future is written about.Mukherjee used the word serendipitous several times.
We may never know the cure for cancer but everything we now know and may learn to fight it with is serendipitous.
This was a mammoth undertaking of research and writing. As a survivor/thriver, I found the book fascinating - and glad I live in the age I do. I think those who read this should also read "Anticancer: A New Way of Life" by Dr. David Servan-Shreiber. He's a two-time survivor who uses science to show how we can avoid/mitigate cancer, and it shows a side of the disease that isn't covered in this outstanding work.
I'm not a doctor or a nurse, though I've had a close member of the family pass away from Cancer, and perhaps that's what keeps me going, since I've been morbidly fascinated and terrified of the disease since.The chapters I've read have been so hard to get through (it has so far covered childhood Lukemia (lord, the tears!), mastectomies, surgery without anesthesia, disfigurement, tumors erupting from the bone and through the skin, surgeons with over-sized egos, and other such terrible things) but I'm still reading, and I'm still enthralled/moved/disturbed.Cancer is a terrible, terrible disease, and this book captures the essence of how it has changed history, medicine, and our lives as we know it.
Now all I can remember when I think about smoking is THE EMPEROR OF ALL MALADIES and how it moves me to understand in a split second why I don't want to smoke anymore.
Absolutely astonishing history of cancer diagnosis, treatment, and the search for causes.
It's extremely well written and intensely, compellingly readable, with some pretty terrifying details, and completely clear even for this scientific illiterate.
Some of this is rage inducing, no less because of the extremely calm presentation of stories that, you sense, probably had the author throwing things as he wrote.
One of the small triumphs in this book is the way we see women rising up to demand a say in their own treatment.
A great compilation on all cancer related, from history to biology, treatments, future perspectives and clinical cases.
Though a big dense book, with tons of information, it is greatly written and explained in a way everyone can understand.
For those not much into science or medicine it can be a bit hard.
As said, it is huge and tells so many things, but worth reading anyhow.
From my point of view, the view of a trained scientist with some cancer knowledge, and a lover of medicine, science and history, this book is fantastic.
One of the best non-fiction I've read so far.
The personality of each of these contributors to the fight against cancer, is charmingly analysed by the writer and is one of the things I especially liked about the book.But after a fortnight and with more than half the book left, I realised I was losing the thread because of the numerous people and events that had been explained.
The book reads like a dedication to all those who lost their lives to the disease and to those who made it their live's purpose to vanquish it.
Cancer genes came from within the human genome.
The Emperor of all Maladies reminded me most of The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, the previous year’s popular science blockbuster, with both focusing on bringing complicated science to laypeople through the life stories of ordinary individuals.What Mukherjee has achieved in less than 500 pages is truly remarkable: a fairly comprehensive history, from ancient Egypt to the present day, of the discovery of cancer, its different manifestations, its causes, and the development of treatments ranging from radical surgery to sophisticated pharmaceuticals.
You know how sometimes you read a book like this and your impression is, "Here's an average scientist who's a pretty good writer, so I guess he's doing an okay job at conveying basic information to a lay person like me"?
You feel like you're in the presence of a rare brain here.*You should know ahead of time that this is not a quick read.
The book, not cancer.
Cancer is a modern disease**; this book, laying out what we thought we knew and what we now know we don't, feels like it describes where the world is now in a peculiarly fitting way.
Parts of the book read like a detective story, and are very engrossing.
However, I really take issue with the short shrift that the book gives to research on cancer prevention.
But, while the book has several chapters on the connection between smoking and lung cancer, no attention is paid to research related to other important lifestyle changes in preventing cancer.
For example, a large body of research, both epidemiological and experiments with laboratory animals, have found strong connections between nutrition and cancer prevention.
It simply stuns me that in a huge, comprehensive book like this, absolutely zero attention is paid to this very important topic.
My mother died of cancer before my twelfth birthday, and ever since then I’ve enjoyed reading books about cancer (fiction, biographies, general non-fiction, medical textbooks, all of them) and have been terrified about getting it.
I often love books by doctor writers and I’ll definitely read (almost) all other books this author writes.
He’s an excellent writer, I love his writing style, and he made every aspect of this subject so interesting.I didn’t thoroughly read the notes pages 473-532 or the index pages 545-571, but I read everything else.Highly recommended for anyone interested in cancer.
Sigh.I really wanted to be intellectual enough for this book.
I loved walking around with it, carrying it into my pediatrician's office -- see, doctor?
I may be a lowly layperson, but I too can read doctor books!
(He didn't notice.) And for the first 100 pages, I was excited.
It's interesting and engaging, and I'm learning a lot!But at 150 pages, my attention started to flag, and so did my enjoyment.
Not enough to slog through 500 pages about it.
I am trying to decide which of the two books I read so far by Siddhartha Mukherjee I liked more: this one, or The Gene and I can't make up my mind because both of them are SO good!
If somebody had told me a book about cancer could be such a page turner, I would have never believed it.
As far as I can understand, this is a very accurate book from the scientific point of view, it has a lot about the history of medicine, from ancient times until the present but it also has real stories about real people, that help us understand the challenges this disease (or better said, diseases) represents.
It was Hodgkin's Lymphoma.The Emperor of All Maladies, by research oncologist Siddhartha Mukherjee, is a biography of cancer — its appearance throughout history, starting with a mention by the Egyptian physician Imhotep, circa 2600 B.C., and Queen Atossa of Persia, who underwent what was probably the first recorded mastectomy in history, our growing understanding and misunderstanding of the nature of this dreaded mutant cellular monster, which is really an entire family of monsters, all uniquely and spitefully different, and the eternal search for a "cure."Mukherjee is an engaging writer, mixing history and social commentary, from a fairly detached perspective, with very detailed explanations of the biochemistry and genetics of cancer and its treatments.
