https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/100933.That_Hideous_Strength
Stupendous. Just great, and also read in January of 1990. Also read in May of 2009. Also read in June of 1985. Also read in July of 1980. Finished it again on an Audible version in August of 2015. And yet again in Audible in September of 2016. And one more time on Audible in July of 2017.
It was a night-time flight, and after I finished the last page i set it down, turned to look out the window and while my mind wandered and mulled on what i had just experienced with the book, I saw that we were skirting to the side of a storm.
Not as easy to get through as the first 2 books are, because the beginning is a bit slow, even dry.
On attempt #2, once I got through page 60 or so, however, I could hardly put it down, and it immediately became one of my favourite books of all time.
FIRST: A complaint from a member of my reading group who read the book ONLY because of the very cool bear on the cover:  In defense of Mr. Angry Bear, I must agree that while the giant, kick-ass bear on the cover may not be exactly false advertising, it is certainly in the category of misleading...similar to beer commercials telling you "drink this beer and hot people will be all over you” when the reality is closer to “drink enough of our beer and you will think the people all over you are real
The second, and the central premise of the book as a whole, is a harsh criticism of the philosophy of Logical Positivism (i.e., the rejection of theology and mysticism in favor of knowledge based on facts that can be objectively determined without resort to the individual views of the observer)*.
I also think that his arguments in defense of Natural Law and against Logical Positivism are very passionate and well laid out, regardless of whether or not you agree with them.
I mostly loved The Screwtape Letters and Narnia, which I read as an adult, adored Till We Have Faces (my favorite Lewis work), was moved by his book A Grief Observed and found Mere Christianity and the first two books in the Space Trilogy interesting.
Here's two quotes: She said at last, "I suppose our marriage was just a mistake."The Director said nothing."What would you - what would the people you are talking of - say about a case like that?""I will tell you if you really want to know," said the Director."Please," said Jane reluctantly."They would say," he answered, "that you do not fail in obedience through lack of love, but have lost love because you never attempted obedience."And...Jane said, "I always thought it was in their souls that people were equal.""You were mistaken," he said gravely.

And although this book was written in the 1940s in England, the themes remain on target in the United States today.It is helpful, but not necessary, to have read the first two books of the trilogy before reading "That Hideous Strength." The central character of those books, Ransom, plays a major role here as well.
But the central characters in "Hideous" are a young, not-very-happily married couple, Mark and Jane Studdock.
And I think "Bill the Blizzard" Hingest, a character who disappears early in the book, represents the mature C.S. Lewis in this dialogue with Mark:"I suppose there are two views about everything," said Mark."Eh?
We have seen some of this in the first two books but now the "bent" Eldil and their minions are showing their hand in hopes of destroying Earth.It is insightful to see how much the evil Eldil hate mankind, because, of course, they hate mankind's Maker.They are a pragmatic sort, however, and tell whatever lies, power hungry, perverse men are willing to swallow to achieve that end.Our story starts out with a young couple, Jane and Mark.
The hideous strength that Lewis writes about is that compulsion that we feel to be part of a group, beyond friendship, it's a need to be a part of something.
More than a cursory treatment of mob psychology, That Hideous Strength challenges us to be self-critical on a day-to-day basis and be brave enough to be true to ourselves even if that means that we give up the very comfortable feeling of belonging.
This book has not made me an outsider; it has helped me understand how some people feel such a compulsion to be in the 'inner circle' that they are willing to negate themselves and others.
NICE wants the talents of the progressive faculty on their side as they generate propaganda, but they also want to recruit some more ancient magic — they plan to dig up the body of Merlin, which they believe may be buried on the college’s property.Dr. Mark Studdock, a sociologist and a new Bracton faculty member who doesn’t feel like he quite fits in yet, is tempted to join NICE when they offer him a high-status job.
…..…..(Still here)But unlike other books on the New World Order, Lewis advocates (or at least Dr Ransom does), fighting back.
Shows how the planning state creates disasters in order to bring in their pre-arranged solution.Some of the quotes are worth feasting on and take one to the highest realms of human artistic endeavor.The Reason I am not Postmillennial“Have you ever noticed,” said Dimble,” that the universe, and every little bit of the universe, is always hardening and narrowing and coming to a point?”His wife waited as those wait who know by long experience the mental processes of the person who is talking to them.“I mean this,” said Dimble, answering the question she had not asked.
As with the other two books in C.S. Lewis's "space trilogy" I found this one difficult to get into and, yet, once I got past the indefinable point where it was no longer a struggle, I couldn't read it fast enough.
It is a testament to Lewis's imagination and writing skill as to how different all three of the books are in this trilogy, while simultaneously all carrying out the same basic theme.
Not many other books really leave one feeling that way.
From every angle, “That Hideous Strength” appears to be stubbornly Earthbound and cut from a completely different cloth.Those, however, who are familiar with C.S. Lewis, know that there is always more to his books than meets the eye.
The road to redemption for both of them is perilous, but as they travel it, they become more and more attractive, more like the kind of people we might like, and want to be like.Deeper than the redemption of Mark and Jane, it is about the redemption of marriage and childbearing.
CS Lewis, in what is easily his masterpiece, gets in one's face about the reality of the New World Order and of the possibilities of real, effective Christian resistance to it.
Christians piously prat about spiritual warfare, but most believe deep down in their hearts that demons aren't real and aerial beings really don't inhabit our world.
Lewis is a medievalist and despite so-called advances in science and technology, he retained much of the old cosmology (cf chapter 3 in *Studies in Medieval and Renaissance Literature*).Most Christians until the Enlightenment (a period by no means friendly to Christianity) believed in beings who weren’t human but also weren’t divine, yet were quite active in the world.
That Hideous Strength is the final book in the C.S. Lewis's Ransom trilogy.
Merlin and the gods as ancient magic are neutral, so its okay that the Christian heroes co-opt them.
C.S. Lewis is at his best, blending the everyday human experience with the huge huge questions of existence and god.
Mostly I like this series because its about how God is so much bigger and has so much more work to do than just our human stuff, but we still have a duty to him.
And I don't love it like my friend who told me today she reads it once a year.
I often debate myself (in the midst of reading a book).
Is this a 4 star or 5 star book?
I was convinced it was a 4 star book ...
but after I finished it, I believe it deserves 5 stars.
That Hideous Strength made me think of a plenitude of other works: Jeeves and Wooster; Harry Potter; The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe; King Arthur; Shakespeare; Silence; Jabberwocky; Lord of the Rings; the music of Vaughan Williams.The phrases!
the grammar of virtueThis book is about the desire to be in the inner ring.
Easily the best of the Ransom Trilogy; a masterwork. Can also be read as a stand-alone novel. I recommend you preface it with The Abolition of Man.
Like in most dystopian novels there is a small group of individuals who see the danger and is fighting against it.
However, unlike its counterparts in other novels, this group does not rely on the strength of their individual wills and merits to fight the evil machinery of government.
Into the plot C.S. Lewis has injected the themes and philosophies he explores in his non-fiction works The Abolition of Man and The Four Loves.
As is typical for his fictional works this aspect does not overshadow the beauty of the story he is telling.
This is probably my 3rd or 4th time reading this book. If Lewis understood anything, he understood the arid desert of modernity and its absolutely crippling effect on what it means to be human (among many, many, many!! other things). The most fascinating theme of the book is the opening of Mark and Jane Studdock's eyes to a life beyond abstraction and "complete objectivity", (reason alone). Can't recommend it highly enough.
The best of the series. I'd love for the rest of my life to be about building a St. Annes to fight N.I.C.E.'s
A work without which I think it must be very hard to understand either ourselves or our times.
Mark and Jane clearly symbolize the objective approach and the subjective approach, and their marriage represents the necessary unity between these two approaches that makes us human.
I'm not going to pretend I got all the symbolism in this book (that is something I'd love to keep discussing with other fans of Lewis' work!) but I did recognize the way this story fleshes out ideas found in The Abolition of Man. I doubt anyone could fully appreciate this novel without at least some knowledge of Lewis' argument in The Abolition of Man and his essay on the Inner Ring http://www.lewissociety.org/innerring.php though I do think the story stands on its own merits.
I started this book with a certain amount of trepidation.
In general, the book was entertaining to read, with occasional passages that made me stop and take a deep breath.
It's one of those things where some of the things he says sound fantastic, and then he says something else frustrating, and I just have to wait for a minute for that to pass through me before I can press onward.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
I apparently rated this 3 stars as a 17 year old college freshman; the only reasons I can come up with were that 1. I wanted to rebel by NOT rating a CS Lewis book 5 stars and 2. I just really didn’t get it. I’m blown away by the fact that this was published in 1945. 73 years later and it is still completely and totally relevant to our culture. “And thus... thus shall I always do, whenever You leave me to myself.”
Definitely my favorite of the three.
While I recognize the error of my ways, it’s now incredibly difficult to curb my craving for sugary, empty calories.In closing this novel, I have officially read all of Lewis’s books.
While it might not be a book I go back to time and again like some of his other works, Lewis created something in this trilogy that was powerful and thought-provoking, for which I have tremendous respect.
It will provide you with food for thought long after the sugary fluff of other novels has faded from your mind.
Packed with profound life insights, kind of crazy that fiction can be that deep, but then again, it’s Lewis, what did you expect?
By giving its volumes to me over the years, my mother honored what she saw as my intelligence, beginning before my mind had developed much and extending throughout her life.Some comments: It’s a fine and lovely book, often very funny (the dithering speech of the Deputy Director is an example, as are the maneuverings for position among the academics), wondrously imaginative (Merlin himself figures into the story, and the beings that appear to be angels are presented in terms of the old planetary gods of the astrologers--Mercury, Venus, and the like), and a good deal concerned with ethics and morality.
My original paperback turned out to have been an abridged edition (abridged by Lewis himself) but the Kindle version was the original full book, full of more explanations, and digressions, and conversations than I remember in the original.
For Lewis Christianity is much bigger and broader and universal even than most of us think.
But our usual view of space and science fiction is nothing like Lewis's.
He melds together mythology and history and gods and goddesses (who aren't what we usually think, either) and science and space travel all into one glorious story.
Someday I would like to have the courage of CS Lewis, in my writing, and put together a story wherein all my countercultural ideas about the universe, the mind, gods, dwarves, devils, gender, marriage, space, university politics and pet ownership can come together into a coherent picture of the absurd and meaningful world in which I live.
And I should not like to pass over the notion that there Mars and Venus represent archetypes of beingness from which our binary gender concepts and physical characteristics of male and female are derived.
The idea of the planets as forces of gender and gender as archetypal ways of being is worth reading the book for, alone.
First edition I ever read of this wonderful book.The finial book in the (C.S.Lewis Space) trilogy oddly applicable for today.
(Those in the UK might find the "name" of the evil group interesting as the book was written many years before the National Health system was set up.)This book is in some ways more "traditionally" a modern fantasy novel touching on figures from myth and folklore and bringing in national legend.
It tells a good allegorical tale with a couple of good subplots and and satisfying ending.
Assuming you've read the first 2 then you've already met Ransom.
Here his allegorical tie in becomes far more obvious, while still telling a story with it's own life, the two halves not competing but complimenting.
