https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1351988.The_Matchlock_Gun
I'm ok with a book about hostilities between Native Americans and European settlers.
No, I don't think that books like this one or Daniel Boone would be or should be published today, but I do understand that this was how white Americans viewed Native Americans, both at the times when the books were set, and in the 1940's when the books were published.
I think the real problem is that the author (and the author of Daniel Boone) doesn't view the Native Americans as people at all.
There was absolutely nothing redeeming about this book. I realize a Newbery winner from 70 years ago is going to be different, but I don't see how this was ever considered the most outstanding contribution to literature. Perhaps a kid killing Indians was meant to inspire the children during World War II? Wow, what an embarrassment for the Newbery name.
For those considering reading this Newberry award winning book to their children, I would suggest you be understanding and accepting that this tale is told from a different era that takes place during a time of war and hardship.
If you do not consider the content to be child-friendly, I think it is mostly due to how times have changed and children are not expected to endure similar circumstances in America any longer, so priorities and portrayals of perspectives are desired to be more current to be held more relative by their (now) audiences.
1942 Newbery Medal WinnerA rather dark and dated story, that doesn't really add up to much more than just an exciting episode in the early American frontier. But, taking into account the times in which this book was published, and the United States entry into World War 2, then this story can be seen as an allegory for the times.
I would recommend this book to anyone who likes stories about mothers who trick their young sons into murdering Native Americans.
I made the mistake of reading this one to the children too often right before bed! A good story of bravery and the consequences of the struggle between the early American settlers and the Indians.
I'm just annoyed that the book's foreword gave away an important element of the climax, so if you read this, skip the foreword and the jacket copy.
(Well, maybe not ALMOST as well, but I like his work a lot.) I think what's most impressive is how distilled this book is--it's very short, but feels complete.
(Jack might look at this and think he's too old for it, but I bet he would like it--Andrew, too, Betsy--if you ladies don't mind the combination of settlers, guns, and Indians, that is.
It's not without its problems, but I think it's still worth reading.)
This short (62 pages) chapter book packs a big punch. It was a fantastic read-a-loud to my 9 and 6 year old children. We all agreed on it being a 5 star.
It's like the author sat and thought to himself, "I really want to write a story where a 10 year old boy kills an Indigenous person, how can I make that happen?" There is not much in the way of other daily life details, the whole tale is just the setup for how a 10 year old would get to be the one pulling the trigger.
The version I read felt like there were parts missing.
If you want to teach your kids about the racism experienced by the Indigenous, then read something written by an Indigenous person.
So I was talking to Courtney about this one, a short story about a young boy (spoilers, I guess) killing three American Indians who were attacking his house during the French and Indian War. I really didn't care for the book, and I think it was partially because it trafficked in some of the same racial stereotypes that keep popping up in these Newbery books.
But although there were some very shady beginnings to the war (like seizing American Indian territory, systematic oppression, etc.), there's some nuance (and this book is supposed to be based on a true story): the Indians in the book were trying to kill a mother and two young children.
I disagree that the subject matter is too dark for this level of reader. Read the forward, and you find not only is the story true - but has a very happy ending. Good history lesson and great for discussion. My son could hardly stop from getting sidetracked in discussing this book and what he's learning in school about the French and Indian War. We read the whole little book - beautiful illustrations and all - in one sitting. A must-read, I think!
I mostly enjoyed the illustrations, which appear to be by the same illustrator who did the Little House on the Prairie book set. The story itself is entirely unremarkable plot and character-wise, and offensive in its complete dehumanization of the Native Americans and its light portrayal of murder. I feel like by 1941 this subject matter should have been handled better.
Very good short story for children describing what it might have been like to live in the wilderness during the French and Indian War. The illustrations were cool also.
She shows her ten year-old son, Edward, how to light the flint but only when she calls his name in Dutch, "Ateoord!"Gertrude secures the bolts on the window shutters and chops a corner of one shutter away with an axe.
As she reaches the front door, she shouts "Ateoord!" and Edward lights the matchlock gun, which kills three of the Indians but not before a tomahawk is launched at her and lands in her shoulder.
Edward drags the matchlock gun outside and pulls his mother off the burning stoop.
There is a brave, young boy, a funny little girl, and a courageous mother, who work together to save their own, and the rest of the villages lives.I don't think this book was a good one, nor a bad one.
I really think the book was too rushed, it seemed to me that the author didn’t even take interest in what he himself was writing.
It had way far less length for a book written about bravery, and some real life events.
I think the book was just way too short and not complete.
1942 Newbery Winner.
But I feel like the number of books with really appalling depictions of Native Americans in the early Newbery winners is particularly high.
I'm sad to report that The Matchlock Gun is one of them.
Father goes with militia to nearby fight in the French and Indian War, leaving the boy along with his mother and sister behind.
The mother gets a report that there are Indians nearby.
(view spoiler)[In the end, the mother gets hurt by a tomahawk and the boy kills three Indians.
(hide spoiler)] Yes, that is the story.Don't read this book.
We read this historical fiction classic as part of our studies of the French and Indian War. It's a short novel, completely understandable to a second grader, with some beautiful writing and excellent tension.
I felt the close perspective (one family's experience over two days, in their house while the father goes out to keep the Indians back) and the jumps between the mother's and son's perspectives were interesting but made the book lack a certain depth.
My daughter's verdict was: "The beginning wasn't very good, but it got a lot funner when the Indians came and started setting the houses on fire." (Yeah, we're working on the grammar--along with some more balanced portrayals of American Indians.)
Written in 1942, The matchlock Gun focuses on Edward, a young boy left in charge of the family farm when his father leaves to fight in the French-Indian War. Before leaving, his father gives him a matchlock gun to help protect his mother and sister.While this is the shortest Newbery winner that I've read, it packed quite a punch in its brief pages.
Obviously, there are quite a few depictions of war type violence so this might be best for slightly older children.
There is a great feeling of bravery in difficult circumstances throughout the story that I enjoyed.
Newbery Medal Winner--1942This is a slice of Americana--a short story about family on the dangerous frontier in 1756.
Some readers take issue with the portrayal of American Indians, but as I read through these older Newbery winners, I always tell myself to think about the time frame when I come across something seemingly offensive.
There were terrible Indian attacks and war with the French and Indians during the time this story is set, and the year it won the Newbery (1942) wasn't exactly a mecca of civil rights, either.
Engaging story of a family and an incident in their struggle for survival as North American pioneers. Don't expect any history lesson about the French/Indian War or about the causes of these conflicts. This is really a story of courage.I especially enjoyed the descriptiion of the cabin's interior and the way the rooms were used for double duty. (view spoiler)[The description of the shadows in the attic that looked like "white-coated soldiers", but were really curing hams was a great image. (hide spoiler)]
Another Newbery tale that was once popular and now is seen as wrong-minded.
This is an old family story of a boy who saved his mother and sister from Indian attack in the early years of New York.
The boy was able to fire off an ancient family gun and stop the invaders from destroying his family.
I understand how a group of people, in this case the Native Americans, can be unilaterally seen as cruel and aggressive from books such as Daniel Boone and The Matchlock Gun, but another part of me sees this book as part of history, albeit a part of history that is no longer recognized as unbiased.
There is only one word to describe this blurb: Huh? This just seems like something that would belong in the back of one of those kids magazines featuring tiny stories that they write and submit in. If the otherworldly events that happened in this book happened today, the main character would be jailed with murder. It is not "deeply moving" as the dust jacket implies. By far, this is the worst Newbery Medal winning book that I've read so far for the project.
After finishing this, I'm honestly surprised it is raved about and included on so many "must read" book lists. Other than covering a time period (French and Indian War) that isn't covered a lot in upper elementary fiction, it really didn't have much to redeem it for me.
Read summer 2014. My 8yr old son loved this book. Will read again!Reading again..krb 7/24/15. Very interesting. This time Jacob rated this book 4 stars. Ellie rates it 2 stars..krb 7/27/15Jacob is reading this book for our family summer reading program..krb 7/24/17
Wow, 1942, this was the best you could do? A kid who thinks he needs a slave, a mother that needs saved from crazed Indians by her ten year old son. I'm a little embarrassed Newbery committee.
Quick read, strictly from the Dutch settler family's point of view. A Newbery Medal-winner, yes, but a dated view of "savage Indians."
Short, not particularly well-written, but it is an interesting and historical account of a brave 10-year old boy in the 1700s upstate New York.
Today's youngsters might not be able to relate to this harrowing story about an Indian attack on a family's home, but I'm sure young folk back in the day found it quite exciting!
The Van Alstyne family lives near the frontier in Guilderland, NY; they're Dutch (dad, Teunis) and Palatinate German (mom, Gertrude - who is not good enough for Teunis mom).
They live near Teunis's mother who not only has a brick house, but owns several slaves as well so the family is not poor.
Guilderland is a fairly settled area and while the militia has been raised against attack, no one really expects it to come this far Armed with a musket Teunis sets off with the militia to guard against the French and their allies; it's up to Gertrude and 10 yr old Edward to protect young Trudi and the farm.
I read it because I've been reading a list of recommended books for children my son's age, trying to keep a step ahead of him and discover a few classics that I missed growing up.The reading level and length of this book is definitely for an elementary school child, but the story involves a ten year old boy shooting and killing three men.
The author of the story does not seem to recognize the humanity of the dead men at all, probably because they were Native Americans.
