https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110737.Seabiscuit
I lived in Kentucky for about 10 years where horse racing is king.
Now I live within a couple of hours of close to a dozen horse tracks - including Churchill Downs, home of the Kentucky Derby.
Luckily for me, I was enthralled with horse training and the finer points of horse racing much more that I ever thought I would be.If you enjoy a good sports story, if you like stories about the underdog becoming the champion, or if you enjoy books with a good history lesson, it is definitely worth giving Seabiscuit a try!
Even though I have always loved horses, I had avoided reading Seabiscuit.
So many times I had picked up a non-fiction book on a topic that I was really curious about, and either put it down unfinished or forced myself to slog through it.
I highly recommend Seabiscuit to any of the following people: anyone who has the slightest interest in horses or sports, anyone who thinks jockeys have an easy job, anyone interested in American history, anyone with no interest in horses who just loves good writing, anyone who thinks non-fiction is dull and would welcome a surprise, and EVERYONE ELSE!
4.5 stars What a remarkable story!Brilliant once it got going, and wonderfully crafted by Laura Hillenbrand.I learned a lot about horses and racing. And that jockeys are badass!🏇

I've always been a little snobby towards Seabiscuit, as I'm a devoted War Admiral fan, but this is probably the best book out there that really captures the essence of horse racing, and she picked the right horse to do it with.This story is not just about Seabiscuit.
She brings this whole world to life, and I'm thrilled that such a window into the sport that I love has been opened for the average person who knows nothing about it, nor has probably ever wondered or cared.
Lose, so that when they win, they can look back and see others way behind.
It is this horse that catches the eye of Tom Smith, a veteran horse trainer employed under Charles Howard, a broken industrialist who has lost his young son.
Tom Smith realizes what the horse has been put through to and begins to heal it and make it start believing in itself.
The story then moves on to the relationship that Red Pollard and the horse share, the way they start to heal each other and what common things they find between themselves.
I don't read very much non- fiction but I just loved this !
Hillenbrand did a fantastic job giving a straightforward account of the history and background of Seabiscuit and the people around him, yet not once did she stoop to sounding like a pedantic authority on the subject.
This book had all the tone and pace of great novels I've read, but it was so interesting to keep reminding myself that it actually happened!If you enjoyed the movie, you will definitely enjoy the book.
The movie did a great job capturing what Hillenbrand did, with applaudingly similar style, but it couldn't have captured all the depth and side-stories that the book offered.
First - I should note that I have absolutely NO INTEREST in horses or horse racing.
In fact, I would say that the idea of a book about horses and horse racing makes me want to roll my eyes out of boredom.
It is her writing that really makes this book special - That makes it about more than a horse or a race or a sport.
She makes the people and places come alive on each page.
I definitely recommend this book to anyone that enjoys good, solid writing and wants to be swept away by a fantastic story!
Laura Hillenbrand breathes life and intimate detail to the world of horse racing. I loved Sea Biscuit, the underdog, who prevailed to a hero. Laura writes non-fiction like the best fiction, and I appreciate the way she makes it real. Because of Seabisquit, I have attended horse races! And even bet! The latest race was the Breeders Cup at Del Mar, and the horse I bet on, (One Wild Broad?) won! What a thrill!Rebecca Rosenberg THE SECRET LIFE OF MRS. LONDONThe Secret Life of Mrs. LondonPlease FOLLOW! https://www.facebook.com/rebeccarosen... https://www.amazon.com/dp/B072KRP7MNhttp://www.rebecca-rosenberg.com
okay, so can I admit that I was weeping at the open of this book?
I know, it is stupid.
I love animals, and horses in particular, way too much.
However, this book was opened so powerfully, I don't know if I can blame my love of animals for my tears this time around.
Very well written for pleasure reading and captures the fanfare that was really a part of this horse.I let my grandmother tell me the whole story of how the world was divided as much by the rivalries between fans of Seabiscuit and fans of War Admiral.
It was definately the biggest sport on radio at the time.
This was a VERY interesting and engrossing read. There's lots of information not just about horse racing, but also about the events and times of the 1930's. And Laura Hillenbrand describes the races so well that she had me on the edge of my seat. All the characters are described vividly, and I cared for all of them.
Growing up in Louisville, Ky and loving the derby reading this was a given. It being so extremely great was a bonus. Re read 2015 enjoyed it even more
Seabiscuit has been sitting on my shelf for years because I never seemed to be in the mood to read a book about horse racing.
Finally, trying to clear space, I decided it was now or never.
Within the first chapter, I was hooked.
The pacing is impeccable, the people (and horses) come to life, and I felt as if I were at the racetrack.
The book reads like fiction, but the endnotes attest to its veracity.
Now I'm trying to get my husband to read it, but he's never in the mood for a book about horse racing...After reading Seabiscuit and Unbroken, I will read absolutely anything Hillenbrand writes!
Just arrived from USA through BM. Since I absolutely loved Unbroken, I decided to read LH's famous book after have watched the movie based on this book a long time ago.The main characters, Charles Howard, Red Pollard and Tom Smith are entwined into Seabiscuit's career and the book shows how his life changed their own lives forever.Even if it's a non-fiction book, Hillenbrand knows how to give a true fictional character to the narrative itself, putting her own heart on it.I am looking forward for her third book which I hope will come pretty soon.
★★★★★ I LOVE this book! I have the full novel in the commemorative pictorial, the DVD, and now the audiobook, wonderfully narrated by Campbell Scott. Ms. Hillenbrand has researched her topic well, but she brings it to the page with insight, humor and an emotional depth that make it additive. You  want  to find out more about these three misfits – excuse me, make that four misfits, including Seabiscuit – and find out how they won the love of a nation in the midst of the Great Depression. There is

I never thought I would read this because I basically hate horse books/movies (yes, I am probably a horrible person) but I was persuaded by one of my favorite podcasts, "What Should I Read Next." Hillenbrand is the master of research and humanizing and fleshing out historical stories. Seabiscuit and his trainer, Smith, owner, Howard, and rider, Pollard, had me deeply invested.
After having achieved fame and winning races all over the place, there was a great deal of pressure to run Seabiscuit in a match race against War Admiral, his blood relative who was cleaning up the tracks in the East.
After finally making the arrangements for a race at Belmont in late 1939, not so easily done because War Admiral, a triple-crown winner, was due to be retired at the end of the year and what did the owner have to gain by possibly losing to a rival, the race was called off because Seabiscuit had knee problems.
I've been reading non-fiction before bed, thinking that would be a good time to squeeze it in because I wouldn't have to worry too much about getting caught up in the story and staying up all night.
Not knowing if Seabiscuit was going to win or lose any given race, my stomach would knot up and I would start reading faster as he came out of the gates.
It was funny to see Seabiscuit's awkward stride after reading so much about it and to know about all the prep work and psychology that went into that race.I just loved this book, and I can't say enough about it.
I cried twice during race scenes, and had to stop reading before bed because my heart was pounding!
Especially interesting to me was the psychology of horses (how they play off each other's emotions during a race) and the physiology of being a jockey (making weight & serious injury -- whew).
It was the kind of book where I always wanted to turn to someone and read them a part.
Racing, a sport whose sustained dramatic action was ideally suited to narration, became a staple of the airwave.”“Horses, mister, can have crushed hearts just like humans.”“After an advisor talked him into selling an especially slow one, Howard quietly bought him back.
Seabiscuit foi um dos melhores cavalos de corrida de sempre e uma lenda do desporto equestre.
Eu sou uma amante de cavalos, animais absolutamente notáveis com os quais sempre tive oportunidade de conviver desde pequena, pelo que foi com absoluto deleite que li a história deste cavalo fenomenal, contada magistralmente por Laura Hillenbrand.
Eu fiquei bastante surpreendida e agradada com a qualidade da escrita de Hillenbrand, bem como com a sua capacidade de apresentar dados e factos, humanizar figuras históricas e criar ambientes únicos, como se o leitor estivesse a ser transportado para o início do século XX.
The wonderfully talented Laura Hillenbrand makes history come alive in this page turning account of the life and times of one of thoroughbreds greatest 4 legged athletes.
Every conceivable detail was researched and covered in chapter sized length in the authors account of the events surrounding this monumental race and it was truly fascinating - up to a point.
A new Daniel Craig/ Bond movie will be released this fall and I'll see it the first week because what's important to me is the finished product, not the myriad details of how the movie was made.
I have recently taken riding lessons (English)and this story was more meaningful because of the little experience I have had with horses.
I have always loved this animal since my youth so reading a "horse" book sounded like fun.
Being a true story made it a remarkable read!
I liked the way it was written (by someone who knows horses inside and out).
I learned about the early automobile days in SF and the fact that racing was huge in the early 20th century.
(Willits, CA)I was reminded of the hard life of the jockey, the pressure to loose weight before a race, their poverty, the extreme athletic expectations.
This is a story for the ages. Hillenbrand does a magnificent job of capturing the swirling excitement that surrounded the unbelievable racing career of the unlikely Seabiscuit. Her exquisite attention to detail and her evocative but never ostentatious prose creates a lost world of Depression-era racing. She doesn't flinch from her cast's warts, but, in the end, we love them as much as we love the horse. Fantastic story, fantastically told.
I love this author for delving so deeply into the lives of people (who are probably now long gone) and uncovering anecdotes that are legitimately fascinating.I was introduced to the story through the movie that came out in 2003.
It’s an amazing story.
Tom Smith was easily my favorite human; he was a man who took to horses better than people, and loved to fuck with the reporters.
It’s a labor of love and I wish that the main people could have benefitted from the book.
I love horse racing.
I research the horses, I research the jockeys, I read about previous winners, trainers, owners, anything.
That is a long way to say that I knew I would love this book.
His jockey, Red Pollard, was a symbol that a guy with nothing could find his niche and rise to greatness.
Hillenbrand introduces us to these two horse racing icons as well as Seabiscuit's owner, Charles Howard, and trainer, Tom Smith.
As much as I loved it, I don't think I would recommend it to people who are not at least interested in horse racing.
I have seen, and loved, the movie based on this book several times, and as I tend to enjoy non-fiction reads during the summer, decided to dive in.
The book is so much better than the movie, in that it fleshes out the story of the characters, and captures a sense of place and time in America really well.
And if you have yet to see it, go now and and watch the video of the matched race between Seabiscuit and War Admiral and see if you don't get choked up.I listened to this story on long walks, and found my pace picking up each time Seabiscuit was racing.
I absolutely loved this book.
I was deeply moved by the story of the flawed and irrepressible jockey, Red Pollard; endlessly amused by the antics of the kindly yet irascible trainer Tom Smith; and felt like I was in the "owner's box" with the dedicated and generous owner Charles Howard and his wife Marcela, sharing in the thrills and heartbreaks of Seabiscuit's legendary exploits.
On top of the fantastic characterization, Hillenbrand offers up not one, but two exciting climaxes(!), both of which left me absolutely breathless and spellbound: Seabiscuit's defining race with the magnificent War Admiral; and Red Pollard's race for redemption and final great victory at the 1940 Santa Anita Handicap.
This is the story of a horse and the three men who had the most influence on his career, his owner, his trainer, and his main jockey.
He did not run in any of the Triple Crown competitions.This book also discusses the men who found a way to bring the feisty but frequently lazy horse to greatness.
The owner, Charles Howard, seemed to be a good man who would scratch the horse from races rather than endanger Seabiscuit in muddy conditions.For five years a horse and three men astounded the racing world with what they could achieve.
This book celebrates that achievement.
What a gift for words!I was very apprehensive about reading about a racehorse when I started the book, twenty minutes into the book, I was hooked.
I would gladly read a book about this.The only thing that irked me a little was that I could sometimes figure out if the Biscuit had won the race just by the descriptions of the start of the race.The amount of research that must have gone into a book like this must have been immense, the footnotes reveal that there is little to no hyperbole in the story.
