https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59642.The_Dalkey_Archive
Have you three minutes to waste…While I admit that the possibility of finding a correspondence may seem logic-defying at first glance given that Rabelais’ book is set in the 1500s in France and O’Brien’s is set in the 1900s in Ireland, that the former is peopled with a cast of giants and magicians and the latter with some distinctly ordinary citizens of Dublin, when you give the problem a third glance, and especially after a third tumbler of your preferred brew, you come up with some odd convergences - which bears out the theory that truth can be verified through creation or invention as much as through observation.The hero of Rabelais’ third book is called Panurge and the narrative is concerned almost entirely with searching for an answer to a question that is preoccupying him: should he marry, and if he does, what are the risks his wife will cheat on him?
–Well, he said, rising, what did you think of that?
But the genius of O’Brien’s storytelling is that the plots don't really matter - it's the effervescent use of language, the witty punning and inventive turn of phrase, with all the delirious flourishes of the native Irish vernacular that make his writing such a joy and laugh out loud funny.P.S. I feel I should add a warning that there is a non-PC word used in one episode which is deemed to be highly offensive today, but was not considered so at the time the book was published.
1. Have you read Ulysses? If yes, proceed to (2). If no, do so then proceed to (2)2. Have you read At Swim Two Birds? If yes, proceed to (3). If no, do so then proceed to (3)3. Have you read The Third Policeman? If yes, proceed to (4). If no, do so then proceed to (4)4. Have you read the Dalkey Archive? If yes, proceed to (5). If no, do so then proceed to (5).5. Have a celebratory tipple
Having just finished both War and Peace and The Dalkey Archive I find that these two very disparate writers come to the same conclusion: man is a fool if he thinks he can carry out a grand plan.I also read At Swim Two-Birds very recently, which with Dalkey bookends O’Brien’s novel writing career.
It is the book of a mature man, who still thrills in his ability to compose grand fugues with his language, but who uses that skill to tackle bigger questions: art, morality, religion.I enjoyed Dalkey much more, which is probably down in part to my being somewhat more familiar with the material here than with Irish folklore.
Flawless little novel centred around Mick who single-handedly saves the world from asphyxiation, rescues his ailing marriage with the restless Mary, and helps steer a still-living James Joyce into the Jesuit Order.All in a day's work.
El mundo creado por O’Brien es disparatado y lleno de ironía; pero eso sí, has de dejarte llevar y entrar en su juego, dejarte embaucar.En esta novela hay de todo: cuevas submarinas, debates sobre teología y filosofía, diálogos con San Agustín, disputas sobre lo ocurrido realmente con Jonás y la ballena o sobre Judas, un sargento de policía que, Dios le libre, nunca ha montado en su bicicleta, la búsqueda de James Joyce, que parece que no está muerto, y por supuesto ese gran genio excéntrico llamado De Selby, con sus extrañas y estrambóticas teorías y sentencias, como la que dedica a Descartes: ”He escrito majaderías, luego existo.”Todo empieza cuando Mick Shaughnessy, el protagonista, y su amigo Hackett, se encuentran en el pueblo de Dalkey con De Selby, y este les invita a su casa, en donde De Selby les explica sus planes para acabar con el mundo mediante un ingenioso invento.
Un sacerdote del visionario narra le avventure di confine di un irlandese aspirante salvatore del genere umano, alle prese con scienziati pazzi e eretici, uomini bicicletta, poliziotti improbabili, esilaranti conversioni, amori e amicizie ad alta gradazione alcolica, evocazioni spiritiche teologiche e incontri surreali con scrittori resuscitati divenuti camerieri in incognito. Lingua ineffabile veicolo di epistemologie linguistiche: da non perdere.
In the Dalkey Archive we meet mad genius De Selby, whose work the main character of The Third Policeman is so obsessed with.
But since O'Brien huffily decided not to have The Third Policeman published after he was refused by one publisher, The Dalkey Archive was published first and even contains some of the dialogue from The Third Policeman.This book features a mad scientist who can do things to time that allows him to speak with long dead theologians, and who plans to destroy all life on earth.
O'Brien was heavily influenced by Joyce, but hated being compared to him and seems to have written him in mainly for spite.
Best book I've read in weeks!
I gather O'Brien felt a bit stereotyped as a one-book author based on At Swim-Two-Birds but I preferred this one.
I guess it could be called a comic novel, but subtly so, and it incorporates some supernatural elements that are not intended to be ludicrous or unbelievable.Every character has some sort of grandiose obsession that remains somewhat ambiguous as to whether it is actually true.
"One might describe a plenum as a phenomenon or existence full of itself but inert. Obviously space does not satisfy such a condition. But time is a plenum, immobile, immutable, ineluctable, irrevocable, a condition of absolute stasis. Time does not pass. Change and movement may occur within time."Flann O'Brien (pseudonym of Brian O'Nolan) is my literary discovery of 2017. This great yet not widely known Irish writer is the author of  The Third Policeman , to me the funniest novel ever written i
So I am more than a little disappointed with his The Dalkey Archive (1964), an interesting and readable novel, yet in no way even close to the greatness of the two other works.
Dalkey shares two motifs with The Third Policeman: the character of De Selby, the "mad scientist", and the idea that humans and bicycles can morph - perhaps transmute would be a better term - into each other.
Over whisky they discuss the erroneous ways of Descartes' philosophy, the nature of time (see the epigraph), and De Selby's plans to destroy all life on Earth by totally eliminating oxygen from the Earth's atmosphere.
Questi è uno stupefacente personaggio (preso in prestito, al pari di De Selby, da Il terzo poliziotto) sostenitore della teoria dello scambio molecolare secondo cui chi passa molto tempo in sella ad una bicicletta lungo le sconnesse strade della Contea diviene a lungo andare in parte crescente bicicletta, mentre le sue molecole si trasferiscono analogamente nel mezzo meccanico, determinando comportamenti cicleschi nell'uomo ed umani nel ciclo (anche questa teoria è ripresa da Il terzo poliziotto).La storia si complica ulteriormente quando Mick viene a sapere che James Joyce non è morto nel 1941 ma vive, sotto falso nome, nei dintorni di Dublino: lo incontra e discutono della sua (di Joyce) opera letteraria.Questi sono solo alcuni elementi del romanzo, che ci permettono tuttavia di assaporare il mondo di O'Brien, la sua fantasia sfrenata, il suo modo peculiare di innestare l'assurdo nella quotidianità.
The book centers around Mick and his struggles: him and his friend Hackett's interactions with the mad scientist De Selby; his efforts to help James Joyce join the Jesuits; and his arms-length relationship with his girlfriend Mary.
While it somewhat recycles a few plot elements of The Third Policeman (the De Selby character, policemen on bicycles), as well as the literary playfulness of At Swim-Two-Birds (James Joyce is a character suspected of not having written his own novels and desirous of becoming a priest), it has its own identity in the protagonist's struggles with religion and relationships.
But the real ambition of the book seems to be something different from story-telling, something more akin to a flippant, sometimes facetious examination of the relationship between received assumption, demonstrable fact and identity-endowing allegiance.On the face of it, The Dalkey Archive is something of a farce.
James Joyce is working as a bar assistant, which is convenient because Mick likes to spend quite a lot of his time in bars.But Joyce remains enigmatic.
They have made appearances in another book.It is hard not to read The Dalkey Archive in a Dublin accent.
Read it to realise, amongst other things, how much other writing, especially that we often describe as conventional or mainstream, is no more than illusion sugared with unreal reality.
The Dalkey Archive is a fun little story about an Irishman named Mick and a few quirky individuals with whom he gets wrapped up, including his cynical friend Hackett, a mad scientist named De Selby, and the actually-not-dead-but-alive-and-in-hiding author James Joyce.
Regarding all of these things Mick is interested, and alarmed, and confused, and tries to think of a plan to stop De Selby with Hackett in the pub, or wonders what must have happened to James Joyce while sitting alone in Stephen’s Green.
The dialogue in The Dalkey Archive is just so fun to read, and reminds me of my time in Dublin.
As an announcer at my young son's hockey game my first spoken words in the open mic were to inform the parents in the arena that "I sure do swear a lot."2.
When expressing a sole opinion please avoid words that pretend others agree with you, such as "That's what she said."Current status: 1.
Thanks to dating a label-maker enthusiast I now instantly know which kitchen cupboard contains my 64-ounce plastic 7-Eleven cups.2.
I can't wait to go to heaven because I am pretty sick of drinking my margaritas in Styrofoam cups.3.
I am the only person I know that has an "I've showered with death" tattoo.3.
Но О'Брайен расцветает, становится большим, да что там большим, великим он становится – буквально раздувается, как только надо поведать великие истины – о святом Августине, о Джеймзе Джойсе, о пагубе рода человеческого – велосипеде.Правда о жизни, вот с ней всё хорошо у О'Брайена.
С романом так себе, а с правдой о жизни, что всегда где-то между и помимо, хорошо.
Otro libro genial de O'Brien.
Esta vez es el mismo De Selby el que entra en escena, con la intención de destruir el mundo.
El protagonista busca impedirlo, enfrentándose a una serie de situaciones delirantes al parecer típicas del autor.A medida que transcurre el relato, aparece el mismo San Agustín (personaje en cuya boca O'Brien pondrá un sinfín de ironías y críticas hilarantes) y también James Joyce, que se nos muestra como ferviente católico e indignado por esa novela difamatoria que ha sido publicada bajo su nombre, llamada "Ulysses", obra de "esa lesbiana parisiense", que la redactó con ayuda de gente de la peor calaña.El libro aprovecha de criticar irónicamente a todos, destacando sobre todo el "pelambre teológico".
Cuatro estrellas sólo por decir que me gustó un poco menos que el "Tercer policía", pero es excelente.
This is probably the weakest of Flann's five novels, but that isn't necessarily bad, since his other work is so awesome.
This is the tale of the fickle in love and alcohol Mick who meets a local scientist (De Selby from the "Third Policeman") who intends to destroy the world, shades of Ras al-Ghul, with a deoxygenating substance he calls the DMP (Dublin Metropolitan Police).
De Selby can also use DMP to stop time and visit with apparations from heaven, like John the Baptist and St. Augustine, so you can imagine how this goes down (e.g. Augustine complains about his hemorrhoids, and so on).
For the Flann completist only, probably.
I may never look at bicycles the same way again. This book is absurd in the best way possible. It was cumbersome for me to read because I had to stop every other word to look up all the references the main characters and St. Augustine were referencing when they spoke—Nicaea, Chrysostim, Manichoean, Plotinus... I learned that I'm dumb but the silliness of the book kept me interested and made me feel not so stupid. The entire book was silly, silly. I learned a wee bit of Irish too—spawns,rashers, grubsteaks, glawsheen, farls...
I don't like how he brought Joyce into it. I felt like O'Brien was insulting him. Some sections so similar to 'The Third Policeman' that I had to make sure I hadn't read it already. Also, it took a bit too much of a religious angle for my taste, both the main plot and the side story of Joyce was full of the stuff. Nice to read about places you frequent though.
Mostly I got this because I was amused at the meta-level of The Dalkey Archive (the publisher) publishing The Dalkey Archive (the book).
But it was incredibly funny!
Wacky drunken Irish Catholic philosophizing.
A mad scientist has discovered a way to alter time and uses it to debate the Church Fathers and rapidly age whiskey, as anyone would.
A policeman given to malapropisms explains for many pages that the atomic theory of matter means that people shouldn't ride bicycles because their molecules will interpenetrate with the bicycle molecules and result in bicycle-human hybrids.
Bonkers and hilarious.
Flann O'Brien was certainly a man who could come up with some astounding ideas. A man who plans to destroy the world because it deserves it , James Joyce alive and working as a barman in Skerries and of course the policeman who steals bicycles to prevent the exchange of molecules. His use of language is renowned and he can be funny. That said I preferred "The Third Policeman" as a novel. I also feel s sense of underlying bitterness throughout his writings but that might just be because I know his life.
Interesting oddity, combining a fast-moving post-war apocalyptic caper with some comic episodes, a lot of religious and surrealist philosophising, wordplay, a lot of drinking, a little bit of a love story, and James Joyce, alive and well and not quite as you might expect.I enjoyed this but it felt like the plot tension was resolved a little too easily. The style was very enjoyable in many places and full of mischief.
(Lightning Review)This deserves a full review, which I intend on giving when able. Easily second only to Two-Birds and a whole helluva lotta fun. Flann was so much more than a comic author. He was one of the best. Ever. He's one of the troika of Irish Immortals, and, yep, you have to read everything he did. That, sadly, ain't a whole lot. Raise your glasses, bastards. Lightning review grade: whiskey, beer, and seltzer water (simultaneously)
Short absurd novel that's kinda like a selection of O'Brien's greatest hits, including: bicycles, an odd genius named De Selby, policeman, drinking, pancakes. I wouldn't have minded the whole of it holding together better, and no doubt some of the Joyce references and Christian allusions were lost on me, but a fairly enjoyable read nonetheless.
This is a very odd book. Seems a bit haphazard. Least favorite O'Brien, so far.
Nothing fascinates me as much as bicycles fascinated Flann O'Brien.
El hombre que siempre tiene razón tenía razón: homérico.
micks to-do list at the end of that one chapter
2.5/5 - not a fan at all.
