https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22547973-blood-brothers
Nakon završetka Prvog svetskog rata nastupio je težak period.
Uništena je porodica kao osnovna ćelija društva, ekonomija je stala, a najgore su prošli oni koji su i inače bili u lošoj situaciji - beskućnici i socijalno ugrožene kategorije stanovništva.
Mnogi od njih su bili begunci iz ustanova za socijalno ugrožene, domova za maloletnike.
Sa jednom od tih bandi pod nazivom Braća po krvi, upoznaje nas Ernst Haffner, potpuno nepoznat autor za koga se zna samo da je bio novinar i socijalni radnik.
Njegov roman "Braća po krvi" objavljen je 1932.godine, publika ga je lepo prihvatila, ali su ga nacisti već godinu dana kasnije zabranili.
Blood Brothers by Ernst Haffner is a novel that takes place during the interwar era in German.
Haffner's book details the lives of street gangs and the kids who make them up.
The clubs like street gangs today have a code of honor and a chain of command.
For some, it is their only choice if they want to survive on the streets.Blood Brothers took me back to the first time I read The Outsiders back in my preteen years.
Life on the street is rough whether you depend on crime or a more honest means to survive.
Birinci dünya savaşı sonrası Almanya ve özellikle Berlin sokaklarının içler acısı hali bu kitapta çok sade ve düzgün bir şekilde anlatılıyor.
Savaşlar kazanıldığında da kaybedildiğinde de ardında aynı şeyleri bırakıyor; sefalet , yıkım , yoksulluk.
Bu gibi etkenler de sana Berlin sokaklarında ; on dokuz , on sekiz hatta on altı ya da on beş yaşlarındaki genç bir erkek çocuğu olarak karnını doyurabilmen için hırsızlık ya da orospuluk yapmayı öğretiyor.
Bir de hayatta kalabilmek için bir çeteye ait olman gerektiğini.
Açlık , soğuk , polis, ıslahevi , yetiştirme yurtları korkuları arasında hayatta kalma mücadelesi veren kan kardeşlerin hikayesi.
Tra la disperazione e la miseria agiscono i Fratelli di sangue, un gruppo di ragazzi che non hanno ancora compiuto i 21 anni, tutti provenienti da riformatori da cui sono scappati o usciti per decorrenza dei termini: non risultano dietro di loro famiglie, genitori o fratelli, sono abbandonati a sé stessi e vanno avanti compiendo crimini: furti di portafogli al mercato, furti di auto, furti in abitazioni.
Ernst Haffner was a social worker and he wrote unsparingly of what it was like to be a penniless adolescent in that society.
The novel is not even an indictment of society, just the good, solid, honest creation of real characters whose fates matter to the reader.
It is a tragedy that this was Haffner's only book.
"Blood Brothers" was suppressed by the Nazis, always the sign of an interesting book.
Haffner himself disappeared into the maw of World War II, and his fate was left unrecorded even by Hitler's psychotic bureaucracy.
Cuando empecé a leerlo la profesora ya nos había hablado de él y prácticamente conocía todo el argumento de la historia y todas aquellas cosas que tenía que buscar en la trama, en los detalles en los que tenía que fijarme para disfrutar más de su lectura.Antes de entrar en materia, decir que a pesar de ser una historia escrita hace más de 80 años, censurada por los nazis y redescubierta hace poco: es un libro muy de actualidad, ya que, describe la situación de los jóvenes de un Berlín –quien dice Berlín dice cualquier otra ciudad grande– de posguerra.
And what a wonderful book it is.The story revolves around a long forgotten episode of late Weimar, depression-era Berlin: the lives of young people with no homes or families, who lived on the fringes of society.
Most of the story revolves around two young men, Ludwig and Willi, who despite their ages of 19 and 20, are still considered as boys.
Ludwig is a member of a gang, the Blood Brothers, or in the parlance of that time, a clique, which acted as more of a social support network, who had escaped a juvenile institution two years earlier.
A matter-of-fact and no-nonsense account of teenage tearaways, first published in 1932 and banned by the Nazi Party in 1933 for having the un-Ayran gumption to tell the truth about bad stuff the authorities did.
Following a cast of delinquents in their misadventures in the down-and-out, Haffner’s novel might seem tame to modern audiences due to the censorship restrictions, if unflinching in its descriptions of teenage prostitution and violence.
Making minor use of over-the-shoulder third-person narration to bring the reader closer to the minds of his protagonists, Haffner fails at psychological depth, but brings a social worker’s passion and meticulous eye to an otherwise quite straightforward first and last novel.
An engaging activist novel about delinquent teen boys growing up in 1930ish Berlin, caught between the equally horrible options of life spent in a teen detention center and life on the streets.
The narrative follows two teens - not so much characters as expertly curated bundles of circumstances - who bounce back and forth between institutions and the streets (and gangs) of Berlin.
Through their eyes, you get a sense what life was like for the majority of people who were living on the margins while all the celebrated creativity and consumption of the roaring 20s passed them by.
O autoru ove knjige, to je prvo što ćete otkriti iz blurba, ne zna se gotovo ništa, sem da je bio socijalni radnik i novinar.
Ali ovo je pošteno napisana, nepretenciozna i vrlo gorka knjiga, autor poznaje svoje junake, nema nikakve glamuroznosti u prikazivanju dečaka-džeparoša i dečaka-prostitutki koji beže iz očajnih popravnih domova.
(Devojčice takođe, ali one autora maltene i ne zanimaju i kad o njima piše zapada u, hm, danas malo neprijatnu retoriku.) Kad se ovo danas čita, zapravo, najstrašnije je koliko se malo toga promenilo - samo se danas triperu i sifilisu pridružio AIDS a alkoholu heroin; apsolutna beznadežnost sve ove dece i njihovo gotovo nepovratno odvajanje od društva potpuno su isti.
5 stars - Honest, heartbreaking and yet full of hope!Blutsbrüder is another of those books that I bought at a fleamarket and might never have heard of or bought otherwise.
Written by Ernst Haffner in 1932, the book is telling us the story of young homeless boys fighting to survive in the streets of Berlin during the Great Depression.
This read has been pretty intense and I haven't been able to put it down - I am definitly going to keep my eyes open for more books focusing on the time and characters at hand.
It all seems so glamorous, but the reality for most Germans at the time was colder, duller and much more miserable.Blood Brothers, a novel written by journalist Ernst Haffner in 1932, delves beneath the glossy veneer of Berlin nightlife to relate the story of a gang of German street boys on the eve of Hitler’s rise to power.Haffner’s writing is of the Neue Sachlichkeit, or New Objectivity or realism, which rejects romanticism.
He writes a collage of the exploits and exploitation of these boys in a non-emotional, journalistic style, relying on facts to indict German society and social inequality rather than the gang members.
Disappointing, with an awkward translation. Despite being published in 1932, there is nothing of the terror during that critical last year of the Weimar Republic, which we readers know was all too present then. A missed opportunity to be something important, instead of a familiar, by now, depiction of indigent Berlin street existence.
Un libro prohibido por los nazis en 1933 y que describe la vida de cualquier ciudad latinoamericana en 2018.
Simenon's stories of the effect of poverty on the psyche as well as physical safety of young people also are relevant.
The Brothers are led by Johnie, who provides their needs, helps them escape from juvenile detention centers and reform schools, and gets them food and drink (just the descriptions of the food is worth the price of the pbk).
The Code he instills gives the only sense of pride and justice they will ever know--and it is one just as iron-clad, and much more honest and even psychically fulfilling, as the one of the "respectable citizen."Haffner's powers of description are amazingly good, as are his familiarity with the Berlin streets, dives, jails, and sociopathic outcasts.
The work describes in detail various young men's stories..

Ernst Haffners *Blutsbrüder* aus dem Jahr 1932 fühlt sich an, wie eine Reportage aus der Vergangenheit.
Als Zeitzeuge erzählt Haffner die Geschichte der Straßenjungen in Berlin Anfang der 1930er Jahre, kurz vor der Machtergreifung durch die NSDAP.
Er beschreibt ein Milieu, dass es in dieser Form heute nicht mehr gibt.
Der Alltag der in Cliquen organisierten obdachlosen Jungs, die sich zum Überleben als Tagelöhner und Laufburschen, aber auch mit Gaunereien und Prostitution durchschlagen, wird schonungslos gezeigt.
Man begleitet als Beobachter die Mitglieder der Clique »Blutsbrüder« einige Monate lang durch Berlin und drum herum.
Ein gutes Buch, dass ich so schnell nicht vergessen werde.
A hyper-realistic novel about life of street children in Berlin of the '30s.
Surviving on crime, prostitution and temporary work that they manage to get here and there, these children see the bottom of life's barrel from a very early age.
They have nothing at all but each other, and together they help each other through hunger, the cold and other troubles, till they get caught by the police, sent to an institution, or choose to leave the group, which functions like an alternative family.
2. Dunya savası sırasında Hitler'in iktidara gelmesiyle sosyal hizmet kurumlarından kaçan gençlerin verdiği özgürlük ücadelesi. Açlığın ve sefaletin,kurumlardaki psikolojik şiddete tercih edilmesi. Bir kurumun ve devletin koruma adı altında gençleri nasıl suça ittiğinin romanı. Suçlunun işlenen suçtaki payı ne kadardır?
Berlino, questa enorme e spietata Berlino, non può essere affrontata da soli per estorcerle il minimo giornaliero. In due è tutta un'altra cosa. La notte non è così lunga, così fredda e i morsi della fame non sono così feroci. Uno dà una gomitata all'altro: "Allora, amico che c'è? Andiamo! Se facciamo due volte andiamo e indietro fino alla stazione, la notte la passiamo!"
Recently rediscovered and translated for the first time into English, Ernst Haffner’s Blood Brothers is a stark and unflinching portrait of a group of young runaways and juvenile delinquents who band together in order to survive the harsh life on the streets in the 1930s.
The gritty realism of the novel gives it a documentary feel at times, with precise descriptions of the conditions the young men live in, the soup kitchens and doss houses they visit, and the geographical accuracy of their travels around Berlin.
Po svemu sudeći nije imao sreće da postane visokorangirani nacista kao protagonista KAINOVOG OŽILJKA ali mu je srpsko izdanje romana manje-više prošlo kao nemačko u vreme nacizma, progutala ga je Lagunina ponuda i ostalo je maltene “izgubljeno”.Hafner je bio socijalni radnik i novinar, i rukopis ovog romana je pitak, egzaktan, za nijansu možda fasciniraniji činjenicom da momci rade kao rentbojevi, u čemu pored pretpostavljenog levičarskog angažmana možemo tražiti i razlog Hafnerovog nestanka u vreme nacističke vlasti.Roman je uzbudljiv, počinje kao hronika koja ima dosta širok zahvat ali postepeno na svojih dvestapedesetak stranica uspeva da suzi fokus i izraste u fino usmereno i vrlo napeto štivo.
Knjiga koju su nacisti zabranili? All time favorite! Nakon završetka Prvog svjetskog rata, mnogi su ostali bez obitelji i svojih domova. Tako su i mnoga djeca smještena u domove bez odgovarajuće skrbi sve do punoljetnosti. Nakon službenog izlaska čeka ih kartica za nezaposlene. Nakon bijega iz doma bez navršene punoljetnosti, očekuje ih Berlin pun beskućnika, gladi, džeparenja na tržnicama i prostitucije. Jedini izlaz im je ulazak u bandu. Sjajna knjiga koja prikazuje život na margini društva pred sam početak nacizma.
Me ha sabido a poco, la verdad. Esperaba algo muchísimo mejor. No hay apenas profundidad en los personajes pese a que, se supone, son el núcleo principal de la novela. El retrato de la pobreza también me parece que podría haber sido mejor. No sé. quizá es que esperaba algo mejor, pero no me ha gustado demasiado. Si le doy las tres estrellas es por la prosa, que es realmente buena, y la traducción de Aramburu es una delicia.
“Blood Brothers” tells the story of a gang of misfit boys trolling the streets of Berlin for prostitutes and purses.
I wouldn't characterize them as a sympathetic bunch – by the end of the novel they are way too devious for that – but their stories are nonetheless gripping and even heartbreaking at some points.Though this novel was banned by the Nazi regime, Haffner makes no mention of the political climate of the time.
All these year’s later we’re left with but a single book to judge Haffner by, a mere 192 pages with which to assess his literary merit and determine his historical significance, but what an accomplished book it is.Told in a pragmatic, resolute style, Blood Brothers presents the grim story of a group of young teenage boys who are bound together by poverty and are all but forced to take to a life of crime in order to make ends meet.
Hochinteressanter, reportageartiger und episodischer Roman über Berliner "Straßenjungen" der frühen 1930er Jahre. Genaugenommen gehts um Jugendliche und junge Erwachsene zwischen 15 und Anfang 20, nicht ausschlißlich um männliche Jugendliche. Jedenfalls ist das ein äußerst lesenswerter Text und ein interessantes Zeitdokument. Eine sogenannte "Wiederentdeckung". Die Nazis haben Haffners Buch kurz nach dessen Erstveröffentlichung (1932) verbrannt.
Una buenísima novela que llena un vacío literario en una sociedad de entreguerras.Más aquí
E’ quello che fanno i protagonisti di questo libro nei suoi venti capitoli, romanzo corale di un coro senza direttore, perché anche Jonny, il capo dei Fratelli di sangue, non è che abbia proprio tutto sotto controllo: ogni tanto qualcuno viene arrestato, qualcun altro truffato (a sua volta), uno arriva con la ragazza (che diventa la ragazza dell’intera banda, d’altronde meglio che prostituirsi per due soldi), l’altro decide che è un po’ stufo, come Ludwig che vuole una vita diversa e cerca di uscire dalla gang con il nuovo arrivato Willy Kludas, mettendo su una specie di società in cui i due ragazzi comprano o raccolgono scarpe quasi distrutte e le risistemano rivendendole ad un prezzo più alto (il tutto ovviamente con documenti falsi e nella clandestinità ma insomma sembra quasi un lavoro onesto!).
Selten habe ich so ein bedrückendes und authentisches Buch über die Zeit zwischen den beiden großen Kriegen gelesen.
Das Milieu in dem sie leben, überlaufende Warte- und Wärmehallen, stinkende, von Ungeziefer befallene Schlafstellen, für 20 Groschen pro Nacht, zu teilen mit zig anderen, die der Kälte Berlins entfliehen, ist so intensiv und trotzdem nüchtern, emotionslos geschildert, dass man meint, den Gestank der wochenlang ungewaschenen Leiber in der Nase zu haben.Ein Buch das ich uneingeschränkt empfehlen muss, denn es erklärt viel, wie es Hitler geschafft hat, Millionen Menschen hinter sich zu bringen.
