https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55024.Connections
I’ve liked James Burke ever since seeing his The Day the Universe Changed, but this was on TV before that and if anything it is a better series.
Is there a way to stop or should we happily hand over control of the world to the bureaucrats who ‘know best’?Because that is the other thing Burke shows, that every great step forward initially looked, well, a bit daft when it was first invented.
I've just discovered that two further series of this were made - i'm looking forward to seeing them.
You can find the article here: https://longreads.com/2016/10/26/what....The historical content is very similar to many of the other history of science books I've read, but of course, James Burke must be given credit for being one of the first to discuss the history of science in this way.
(see Politics and the English Language)Overall, as good as a history of science as any that covers many obscure topics you might not otherwise find elsewhere, held together by a very interesting philosophy of technological innovation and progress.
This is the only "history" book I am aware of that follows lines of thought through history, rather than an individual person or invention.This is the proverbial butterfly fluttering its wings in the 12th century, leading to cell phone technology today.The book can be a bit disconcerting to read, since you can read it in any order you like.
This is a unique experience in my book-reading life, and the first time I read this book I read it front to back.Later I went back and followed particular threads of thought through the book.
Connections was written as a companion series to a documentary series of the same name.
I've heard great things about the show, and since I really enjoyed the book, I'll track it down eventually.
Burke's basic arguments here is that history is a continuum, not a series of isolated events.
It is indeed fascinating to trace the development of things that only seem unrelated and turn out to be on a direct line of thought.
And actually, I did already know many of these isolated facts, but I'd never connected them as Burke does here.
A fascinating and different way of looking at history, tracing how each new advance in technology shaped society, in turn leading to the next advance. For example, how the advent of the stirrup on the battlefield led eventually to the atomic bomb.My only complaint with this is that he sometimes went too fast and did not do a deep-enough dive into topics, but overall a good read and recommended if you are interested in science and history.Now I have to go watch the TV series.
Just as in the TV series, Mr Burke does an amazing job of tying in all of the steps (planned or accidental) that lead from one innovation centuries ago all the way to our modern day conveniences.
What most amazes me, I think, is the way so much of what we take for granted today is the result of so many tiny innovations having taken place across the globe, seemingly unrelated to one another.
Of course we all know how accidents lead to inventions but to actually follow the path makes for a fun time.
But the 'connections' are so numerous and overlapping, that I doubt you'll be bored.Highly recommended.
Instead of simply listing a series of machines and inventors and dates (even though that information is present), Burke follows threads of invention that flow from one idea to the next in a chain of inspirations, accidents, arms races, and unintended consequences.Connections is the right title for the book: it made clear the transitional shifts between one period of human history and the next.
By focusing on the needs those inventions were made to address, or the happenstance that made one discovery influence an unanticipated field, Burke paints a fascinating and more believable portrait of human progress.
Once upon a time, however, history could have gone any number of ways, and much of the time, it’s the act of change and transition that help drive history through various eras.James Burke is one of my favorite historical authors, and I am a big fan of his ideas behind “Connected thought and events”, which makes the case that history is not a series of isolated events, but that events and discoveries coming from previous generations (an even eras) can give rise to new ideas and modes of thinking.
Here’s an example which is representative of much of the book:“On this new loom the threads were stretched horizontally on a frame.
These boards were lifted alternately by the use of foot pedals attached to the overhead supporting boards.
All the weaver had to do in order to pass the weft thread through the alternate warp threads was to press down on the pedals, and the threads would lift, leaving a gap through which the weft thread could be thrown, attached to a shuttle.
On the return journey the alternate threads would be lifted, and so on.
This book is the "companion" to a BBC TV series first broadcast in the '70s or early '80s. I found it interesting enough but intellectually weak. It purports to trace the history of development of various "modern" inventions, such as the jet engine, the computer and television, starting with the invention of agriculture. Where we arrive at the first problem; farming allowed the first division of labour into different, specialised occupations, which in turn, allowed the development of technology. Hunter-gatherers couldn't do this. THIS REVIEW HAS BEEN CURTAILED IN PROTEST AT GOODREADS' CENSORSHIP POLICYSee the complete review here:http://arbieroo.booklikes.com/post/89...
James Burke was originally a news reader for the BBC who went on to write a series of very interesting books/TV programmes (heck he is British). I both read and watched the "Connections" and "Connections II" (and there is a third one whose title escapes me) books and shows many years ago.They are older so the CGI and FX are not what you could see today, but the information and linkages in the material is really very good. Not fiction, but facts and presented in rather unique ways.I strongly recommend it if you like history, science, and so forth.
Based on the truly genius series shown on PBS in the US. I grew up with this and loved it from the initial showing. I still go back and watch it probably once a year as an adult. The book aligns with the first series and is just as great. In regards to the series, the second 'season' was not nearly as good. The third was better but still not quite as good as the first.If you liked the TV series, the book is more of the same - brilliant.
If you are like me and want to know how something was invented, why it was invented, who invented it, where it came from etc etc etc this is the book for you. It takes you from the very beginning through current technology (I think the 1987's). there is also a PBS series on this which someday I am hoping to watch. Fascinating.
Great links from ancient history to ?odern times. Filled with litte kwon facts. The conections made by the author are his ownBut intriging none the less. Certain facts certainly speak for themselves.
Quite appreciated this historical science series, print and tv, and am enjoying Steven Johnson use of the same format with his How We Got to Now.Definitely re-read material.
This book will alter the way you look at the world by presenting you many stories you won’t remember in a year.
Everything to that point had presented technological development with hindsight, as though it was an intentional straight-line process.
The concept that innovation occurred in context, as a product of multiple lines of history that happen to converge at a particular time, often randomly, was revolutionary...at least to my 15-year old brain.
Many advances were technologically possible years, sometimes centuries before they occurred is one.
I pity people who didn't see the original Connections series. It was breathtaking, truly. Burke's ability to demonstrate linkages through time kept me spellbound. The book is a good standalone read and an even better study guide to the series. Whether you have access to the series or not, I still recommend it as a worthy read.
Changed the way I looked at history and made me an amateur historian. Riveting history for people who don't like history.
Love the documentaries. The book reads less like a novel and more like the notes from a TV script.
Excellent. A wonderful way to approach history.
Just as good as the 1st connections video series. :)
It's awesome. This is my fahrenheit 451 book.
From the digging stick to navigation and power, light, warfare, defense, and communications, connections are not always linear and do not always depend on great inventors acting alone.
Connections was recommended me on the fact that Burke follows inventions from effect to cause, showing us a different but necessary way to look at human history.
Specifically, Burke takes a single invention and follows its cause effect from its inception to the modern present day of the late seventies, especially highlighting how said invention paved the way for other inventions.For instance, the book opens with a discussion of how the invention of the plough is the reason that the vast majority of humanity cannot actually farm.
A fascinating journey up and down avenues of human ingenuity and ambition.
Often the history of human progress is painted as a current driven by a few geniuses who every so often make large strokes against the canvas, however this book paints the far more accurate and colorful picture of a multitude of tiny discoveries from typically humble beginnings that lead to more tiny discoveries, and the threads weave and interweave until we marvel at the innovation of the tapestry.
Indeed sometimes the trail can get a bit lost and you wonder if Burke charted out his destination or got sidetracked along the way.
It's a fascinating journey either way.
First, I must recommend any television program associated with James Burke, especially Connections 2, which is the reason I checked this book of my library in the first place.This book, inspired by the original 1970s Connection program, really is like reading a complete history of everything, though its aim is little more narrowed down: how change happens.
The introduction of the stirrup changed English history forever in 1066.I loved these stories.
Likewise, if you are not that interested in knowing how the advances made by Renaissance canoneers lead to developments in the field of British surveying which in turn helped bring about the Drummond lime light, then the reading can get a little slow.
algo que James Burke sempre fez com enorme mestria, levando-nos em viagens do presente ao passado até ao regresso ao presente, mostrando que caminhos as tecnologias que hoje nos deslumbram seguiram na sua evolução.O realmente interessante nos livros de Burke é que a resposta raramente é linear.
Pegar numa invenção que hoje nos deslumbra, dar um salto temporal ao passado para pegar em algo que aparentemente nada teria a ver com a inovação do presente, e por portas e travessas, por caminhos ínvios de pesquisa e investimento financeiro boa parte das vezes ruinoso, mostrar as surpreendentes ligações existentes.
The book Talks about how innovation changed the life style of Westren Civiliation, and frequently speaks of how when there is a need, then the innovation can place (frequently things were invented prior to a market need and thereby lost, but then discovered and recognized later) .
This book was chalk full to show that Europe's dark ages was continuous improvement of life...it is just subtle.How financing led to European wars, which created needs to need for better maps, to discovery of triangulate on points of reference (to get better maps of areas to conquer), where oil burning light was discovered (rediscovered) which led to better lighting and the change across the world to work later...invent more...
The author has a gimmick he uses to trace the development of technology by starting with one invention and moving forward in time through related inventions or people, often ending up in an entirely different area.
The need to provide food for more people than can live off pillaging the land leads to food preservation in glass bottles for Napoleon’s army, and related developments in English metallurgy led to tin cans.
It makes for fun and interesting reading, but some of the hops make it hard to keep track of what happens when and why.
It was interesting to read a book on technology written before the cell phone and internet.
Burke thesis us that technology advancement is the result of a web of connections between separate events.
Each chapter begins with a particular event or innovation from Ancient or Medieval times and traces a path through a series of seemingly unrelated connections to a essential aspect of the modern world.
History is driven by individuals acting only on what they know, with no concept as to where their actions will eventually lead.
History progresses because of the synergistic interaction of past innovations.3.
What will this mean to our freedoms?Overall it is entertaining to see by the connections Burke is able to weave among past events to today’s advancements.
