https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16393.Big_Money
Fortunately, Biskerton is also engaged to a girl named Kitchie Valentine.
Throw in a subplot about a penniless noble and a copper mine that may or may not be worthless and watch things come together...For me, a P.G. Wodehouse novel is like a drive down a familiar road to a well-loved destination.
Big Money has all the usual Wodehouse plot elements, like broken engagements, misunderstandings, and mistaken identity, and still manages to craft a new and enjoyable tale.
While this isn't one of my favorite P.G. Wodehouse books by any means, it's still a good read for people who enjoy dry British humor and stories resembling musical comedies without the music.

I saw two guys on a tube and one was reading an extract of this to the other and they were both howling with laughter. I bought it and became the bloke howling with laughter on a train. Want to laugh out loud in public? Read this book.
4.5*One of Wodehouse's best stand-alone books, or so I think so far (I haven't read them all yet). Jonathan Cecil is in top form narrating this audiobook edition.
Don't stick just to Wooster and Blandings, Wodehouse stand-alone novels are just as funny.
His niece, the beautiful Ann Moon, is engaged to 'Biscuit', Lord Biskerton, who doesn't have very much of the stuff and so he has to escape to Valley Fields to hide from his creditors.
Meanwhile, his old schoolfriend Berry Conway, who is working for Frisby, himself falls for Ann - just as Biscuit falls for her friend Kitchie Valentine.
In this typically hilarious novel by the master of light comedy, life can sometimes become a little complicated.Oh, and Berry has been left a lot of shares in the Dream Come True copper mine.
A classic Wodehouse comedy of errors with Berry Conway and Lord Biskerton or Biscuit as the main protagonists. No Jeeves or Wooster here but full of classic Wodehouse lines. "She gazed at Berry with stolid affection, like a cow inspecting a turnip." Overall a great light read.
My wife practically insisted that I read something light after my last couple of reads, so I pulled this off the shelf. I've read it before, as I have almost all Wodehouse, but not for a long time, and I didn't remember many details. Well, it's prime Wodehouse. There's lots of silliness and plenty of misunderstandings, but the right young women end up with the right young men, the hero ends up with a windfall of cash, and the bad guys get what's coming to them - in a mild, Wodehousian way.
Rarely do I agree with the blurbs on the cover of books, but in this case I agree 100%:"Light as a feather, but fabulous."Wodehouse is at the top of his form here, with his usual methods of comparing blue bloods with barnyard animals. The way he structures his sentences is incomparable. My favourite comedy writer, by far.
To try and explain the plot of this book would make it sound complicated and unfunny, neither of which is really true, but I couldn't do it justice.
There are fiancés by the handful (and Wodehouse's fiancés usually are a handful), misunderstandings, plots, crosses, double crosses, and much fun to be had by all.Wodehouse's batting average is still incredibly high with me and whilst I may just be easily pleased, it's funny, light of touch and marvellously easy to read.
Both a great entry point to the world of Wodehouse and a fine addition to the collection of an existing fan.
Patterson Frisby whom is keen for the Biscuit to marry the very wealthy Miss Moon but equally keen to prize Berry’s shares in the Dream Come True cooper mine away from him before he realises their incredible value.
Mr Hoke and his college Captain Kelley are equally keen to financially gain from the cooper mine and are willing to hold up the majority of Valley Fields up at gun point to make dreams come true.Only Wodehouse will be able to ensure the couples are righted and that the shares ensure they will never have to do anything as squalid as work to ensure there place in this, the best of all possible worlds.
I was bummin' pretty hard until last week I got this book at a second-hand bookshop near my house.
I'm pretty sure PG Wodehouse is feeling the keen pleasure of a job well done up in heaven, because I imagine that cheering up the bummin' on their daily commuter train is exactly what he hoped his books to accomplish.
I feel better about myself, about my life, about the people around me, cheered up by the silliest of goings-on in this novel.
Classic Wodehouse.The story is simple, as are the characters, always count on Plum for a good laugh!
I read this on vacation in St. Martin. This is the epitome of a beach read: easygoing, lighthearted, feel-good comedy where everything works out in the end. Old college pals end up with the ladies they love after some slapstick and Comedy-of-Errors-style mix-ups. Nothing deep to analyze, just an entertaining tale to enjoy.
Somewhat less farcical than the PG Wodehouse series books, more of a light romance. Those who think Wodehouse's books are "all the same" have probably not read enough of them to recognize the subtle differences of style. This particular one is excellent, compelling from start to the eventful finale.
This is a typical easy to read Wodehouse book with a farcical plot and I enjoyed it for that.
Great escapism! Laughed out loud at quite a few of the capers. Have to accept that from ‘different times’. A good yarn
If you're already a Wodehouse fan, you pretty much know what to expect; a complicated comedy of errors also serving as a sort of social satire of Britain's pre-war idle-rich. It's entertaining and has some distinct laugh-out-loud moments, but I honestly thought it was too long for what it is. The plot seems to reach a perfect level of ridiculousness at about the halfway mark where it feels like it should be wrapping up somehow, but then goes on much longer and becomes more complicated. Maybe I'm just used to the punchier, shorter style of the Jeeves and Wooster stories.
Typically Wodehouse. Fast-paced froth, full of wit, observational humour and bonhomie. Follows a similar pattern to many of his others so it's not so much the plot that matters but the description and dialogue which are always so kaleidoscopically beautiful. Not his greatest, not by a long chalk, but hugely entertaining nonetheless.
One of the few writers who can make me laugh out loud <3
A solution to Biscuit's financial situation soon presents itself in the arrival of Ann Moon, Frisby's niece.
A situation ensues in which Berry mistakes Biscuit for the head of a cocaine ring and jumps into a young lady's car on a high speed chase out of London.
Berry has never done anything like this before but the young lady is under the impression he works for the Secret Service.
Biscuit is a typical Wodehouse young aristocrat, except he has a bit more brains.
Ann is a bit silly and not really the kind of girl I want to be friends with.
More unfortunate still, one of them really does love her.Unscrupulous businessmen pulling dirty tricks to get their hands on a copper mine, an obnoxious false beard and two sneering swans are just a few of the daffy delights in a particularly head-spinning plot, even by Wodehousian standards.
And then, as always, there is those sublimely comic similes of his, such as: 'Lord Hoddesdon felt like a tiger which has hoped for a cut off the joint and has been handed a cheese straw',or'he groaned slightly and winced, like Prometheus watching his vulture dropping in for lunch.' Isn't it wonderful that P.G. Wodehouse existed?
Basically all the books have the same plot, a couple of men love a couple of women, there are angry and difficult relatives, the women are, at points, paired with the "wrong men," and, after a series of ups and downs, everything works out.
Even knowing that going in, there's a lot of charm and often wit that drives the reader's experience..I think this one went on a little too long and was not funny in stretches, but was otherwise pretty good.Question: Why does everyone get engaged immediately upon meeting another person but never get married in this book?
The idealization?P.S. The back of the book spoils the whole thing.
Look, you can't be quoting Wodehouse in these reviews, because you end up putting in the whole book, as the man was an unparalleled genius, but: "And what had he done with his life?
Apart from being the sort of chump who, when he has the luck to meet the only girl in the world, lets her slip away from him like a dream at daybreak, what had he achieved?
If he were to pass away tonight - poisoned, let us say, by this peculiar-looking fish which having died of some unknown complaint, had just been placed before him by an asthmatic waiter - what sort of gap would he leave?
This has to be the worst of the Wodehouse books I have read so far. I simply found it tedious to read and think I may have been overdoing the novels at the moment (as it seems to be quite contradictory to the other comments made about the story). The story was quite boring following the mishaps and adventures of a group of couples and how they swap around while trying to improve the amount of money that some have and others don’t. Quite tedious and similar to other novels that aren’t of the Jeeves series.
What can I say but, another funny gem from Wodehouse?
If I recall correctly, this is one of his earlier stories, so he hadn't hit his stride quite like he had by the time he was writing the Blandings, Psmith, and Jeeves and Wooster books, but Wodehouse not yet in stride is still funnier than pretty much anyone else at the top of their game.
Chapter 13 was the funniest thing I've read since the last Wodehouse book.
I repeatedly find myself thinking how easily most of his books would translate into screenplays.
If Hollywood made comedies like this, I'd start going to the movies again.
A fun book to read. Two old-school boys, "Biscuit" Biskerton and Berry Conway, both penniless but hopeful, connive to make money by unloading a dud of a copper mine, called The Dream Come True. Along the way, they fall in love, get engaged (of course) and unengaged (bound to happen), confuse a lot of people, and generally run rampage through the story. Suffice it to say that things work out well in the end. I prefer the stories with Wooster and Jeeves, but there's still a lot to like in this story with characters from The Drones Club.
Its a sin, sacrilege for a book lover not to have read PGW.My first book of PGW was "Do Butlers Burgle Banks?".
My wife strictly sent me out of the house not able to stop my convulsive laughter while reading the book at unearthly hours of the night.What a simple plot it would seem until you hand it over to Mr. PGW to bring in some much needed twists and turns to the plot that would even make the sternest of faces to chuckle.Two guys, one girl, two engagements, money to be made ...
do I need to say more ...Its absolutely hilarious to say the least.
Okay... what can I say, it is Wodehouse -- always a joy to read. This one I would rate slightly higher than the previous one I read (The Adventures of Sally), but only because Big Money spends more time with his typical British upper class twit characters (Sally largely took place in America). I certainly laughed out loud often while reading this. I hope the BBC Jeeves and Wooster series helped introduce some new readers to Wodehouse's world. He was one of the great English-language humorists of the early 20th c.
I mean, I can never say anything very different about Wodehouse books... They are all equally funny, heartwarming and entertaining with amusing situations and unique characters that always get into the strangest messes but always come out with a happy ending. The plot's are masterfully constructed and delicately plotted to perfection, as always. Perfect for a light, fun read that will make you wish you could have the life the character's are living.
While I haven't read heaps and heaps of Wodehouse books, this is probably the one that I've enjoyed the most. It describes the adventures of two young men, Berry Conway and his schoolfriend, Lord Biskerton (known as "The Biscuit") as they seek to make a lot of money without actually having to work too hard for it.The convoluted plot involves American heiresses, walking up to strangers and saying "I know your secret" and other such hilarities. Good fun.
