https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1153709.Hairy_Maclary_from_Donaldson_s_Dairy
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my BEDTIME STORIES list.I have a little boy and love reading to him, so this reading list will cover the classic (and new) children’s stories we’re enjoying together.It was my son's first birthday last week and the boy got so many presents we're struggling to
is my pick of the lot.The funny thing about reviewing toddler books is that you could easily use more words in the review than there are in the book itself!It's a lovely little poem about a dog (Hairy Maclary) who takes himself for a walk and gets joined, one at a time, by his pack.
Each dog has it's own rhyming couplet (eg, Hairy Maclary, from Donaldson's Dairy - Hercules Morse, as big as a horse) and as each extra dog joins we start the cumulative list again from the top, in the same way as 
My children and now my grandchildren absolutely love this book of rhyme. One of the children's all time favourites and mine too.
Rhyming book for kids. Well done but ca be a bit of a tongue twister after a while. No real plot just lots of dogs. If you want a good laugh from your kids, read this to them, faster each page!
Now this one I read AS A MUMMY to my little girl. I loved it more than she did I'm sure! That little girl is now nearly 23. God, I feel old :-/
Repetitive rhyming book for kids, originally published in the 1980's - but, the book seems to have a nostalgic feel to it - I honestly thought it was from the forties or fifties. There isn't much of a story, but the illustrations are beyond adorable!A real treat for dog-lovers of all ages!
One of my favourite books when I was a toddler - hence the long read date!
A great story, with a colourful cast of dogs ranging from Hercules Morse (‘as big as a horse’) to Muffin McClay (‘a bundle of hay’) and the eponymous Hairy Maclary, from Donaldson’s Dairy. The gang go for a doggy strut downtown – only to be sent packing by Scarface Claw, the toughest tom in town.
Hairy Maclary by Lynley DoddHairy Maclary from Donaldson’s Dairy is a fabulous book full of rhyme, repetition and rhythm – and funny animals!
The book tells the story of scruffy dog Hairy Maclary meeting up with different dog friends who are all out for a walk.
The dogs are all fantastically described, being all different shapes and sizes and are given fun, imaginative names.
As Hairy Maclary meets another dog, they are all added to a long list, which encourages children to repeat the names and remember the rhymes and alliteration.
This is a wonderful book that I believe should be on every child's bookshelf. The tale of the little mischievous dog and all his friends, they gather together and scout about town till they meet someone they dread......SCAREFACE CLAW.A beautifully illustrated story that I believe can be shared by young and old alike and one that can be read again and again but never gets old.
A classic Kiwi story which my kids loved when they were little.
I named my two turtles after characters from this book when I was a kid.
This book sadly wasn't around when I was a child, but I have read it so many times as an adult - sometimes to real children, but just as often to myself. I just love the rhymes and the rhythm of the book. Every child should be exposed to this book (repeatedly!)
I LOVE this book. It makes me feel awesome. Read it, you have to it is great and my favorite childhood book.I highly recommend this book
A lovely book with lots of rhyming!
Of course, there's the slight issue that all the female dogs seem to have gone missing from this part of the world and most of the cats are male too.
Makes you wonder if there's some sort of weird genetic manipulation going on in Miss Plum's town and who's behind it.
Dear Picture Book writers - please, please stop writing most animals and most protagonists as male and start reflecting the real world, where female animals and girls are as present and important as their male counterparts.
This mum to one precocious and talented little girl is tired of changing half the pronouns in your books.
I love this book.
I discovered it when I was younger, and had no idea that not only was it still in print, but that there were a whole string of books that came after it!
My sister just got my daughter all of them, and they are all charming.
But there's just something about this little dog, nothing but a pile of hair, marching down the street, collecting all his friends, like Hercules Morse, as big as a horse, only to be chased away by the vicious Slinky Malinki!
Beginning readers love the rhymes and the rhythm of the story.
This series of books are fantastic. There are about 12. They are all in rhyming form and use repetition throughout. They are about a mischevious dog called Hairey Maclay and the adventure he has with his friends, always the same characters. Lots of onomatopoeia again so good for reading aloud. Good for art projects perhaps.
A poem about a hustley little dog and the trouble he stirs up. The rhythm, the rhymes (with some substantial vocabulary!), and the whimsical illustrations make this short book that my boys pick again and again, and that I secretly root for them to choose. And of course, the feline enemy...Scarface Claw...adds a little ominous pizzaz to the tale.
Varieties of dogs set off for a walk in town. They seem to be having fun until SCAREFACE CLAW shows up and all hell breaks loose sending all the dogs back home to bed. The repetition used makes it appealing to early readers.
I really like the rhymes. The illustrations are fun too. I laughed out loud. Alena and I enjoyed this book.
Hilarious! Super cute!!!
So well-loved is the Hairy Maclary series that Lynley received a damehood in 2001.There are currently only 52 dames in the New Zealand honours system, among them a former prime minister (Jenny Shipley), a former governor-general (Silvia Cartwright) and an Oscar-nominee (Jane Campion).
If you told me one of the gang would end up at the pound, I’d have Bitzer the skinny whippet a $1.25 favourite.But the scruffy little star of this classic story, and the series that followed, is Hairy Maclary from Donaldson’s Dairy Milk Bar.https://dadreads.blogspot.com.au/2016/05/hairy-maclary-from-donaldsons-dairy-by.html
One of my favourite books as a child!
Worse I've started asking more questions, why are there so few people in this town?
Why is Ms Plum always the hero, is she the local busybody, or town hero, maybe she's the only non-pet owner in town?But the real burning question is how the heck is Scarface so OP?
Hercules is at least 3x his size and yet he seems to hold sway more than Horse from Footrot flats.
Clearly someone has been hitting the cat steroids, or perhaps he has some form of gangsta influence scaring all the others despite his diminutive size (that makes sense because of the Al Pacino movie right?)
This book centres around a little Scruffy dog called Hairy Maclary who goes out for a walk around the town with friends.
As the story progress the group of dogs gets larger and larger, but then they meet a big scary cat called scarface claw.
Upon seeing the cat the dogs run away as fast as they can.This book is a great book for Ks1 children.
since the dogs are described based on their appearance, this can be used to introduce adjectives to young children, maybe getting them to describe appearances of their themselves/pets/friends.
Published: 04/07/2002Author: Lynley DoddRecommended for: ChildrenI absolutelty loved this book as a child. It is a book I think every child should read at some stage in there life. My mum got sick of reading it for a bed time story...must have read it over 20times. I still treasure it and will always do. Love this book and the pictures and of course all of the characters! This is the type of book that children will remember the characters of and will help bring fond memories from their childhood to their mind.
3* art5* story/rhymeFun in so many ways. Squirt, the anarchist, instead of saying the expected "..AND...Hairy Maclary from Donaldson's Dairy.." would yell "POOPY!!" Which was just as good, although it didn't rhyme.
July 2016 - First of all, I love the way Ben said "oh, Hairy Maclary?" when I pulled this one out. The cumulative text is fun to read, and while Ben doesn't pull these out very often, he obviously remembers the character. Lots of fun.
A children's classic that should be on everybody's bookshelf! Children love the clever use of rhythm and rhyme and always join in when it comes to saying 'Hairy Maclary from Donaldson's Dairy'. Lovely story with a slight fear factor from scarface claw! A true gem of a book :-)
Read this with my osn last night. This is part of a naitonal reading program.Fun, lots of repetitive components, which helps to boost my son's confidence and is a botu a topic he loves, dogs!
