https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8573642-incarnate
"You should have left me there. Everyone would have been happier to forget about me.” I collapsed over myself and wept. “I hate you. I hate everyone.” Good lord, would you like some cheese with your whine?My quest to read all the popular books in the past few years continues. And I got yet another dud.To be honest, I didn't have great expectations for this book. I was prejudiced against it from the beginning, why?1. The cover is damned pretty. A pretty cover comes with a roughly 77.2% probabili
That comes with a 96.4% chance of it suckingSo if my math is right, you multiply the odds, and the chances of this book sucking is huge.
I love the concept of reincarnation, and the idea presented in this book was so fascinating - at first.
Ana, for example, sees a photo of Sam in a previous life as a female (who is hotter than she is).
I would feel pretty betrayed if my lover loved someone else in another life.Now, the romance in the book between Ana and Sam exists in a mysterious way because I honestly have no idea why they're attracted to each other.
So, imagine my surprise when the majority of the book Ana isn't researching her past or digging into mysteries of the Temple, but instead playing the piano with the love interest, Sam. Most of the book revolves around their relationship.
In fact, you barely even know more about any other characters besides Sam and Ana. This book had a lot of potential and up until about 80% of the book, I was okay with giving this book 3 stars in hopes that the ending would save the rest of the book.
Then when they get to Heart, Sam becomes Ana's "guardian" and teacher and resides in his house.
A gorgeous YA utopian tale! Nope, not dystopian. Do you know the difference?This book blew me away with... a Masquerade Ball, reincarnation, slyph, dragons, music, souls, butterfly, slow burn romance, tension, laser pistols, massive library, war stories, dragon battles. Need I go on? I mean - Wow.I read this in a flurry of addiction. I just couldn't get enough of the world and it's goings-ons. Completely entrancing. The Rundown Ana was born into a society of a million souls. A million souls who
The author's prose has a very subtle lyricism, and the underlying message of this book seemed to be one of peace and hope for the future, which is a happy change from bleak and desolate outcomes of some recent dystopian fiction.The main character, Ana, gets things done.
So if you are for streamlined world-building and definitive answers, you might wait on this one.
I'm hoping all is explained in the upcoming books but even I still have MANY questions.I CANNOT WAIT to read the sequels.Just look at this word cloud.
How can a book with this word cloud NOT be awesome?There's only one thing it needs: NINJAS!
I can only hope Meadow's next book in the series won't be beating a dead horse.One could reasonably argue that this is just YA literature and perhaps I was expecting too much.
A book such as Incarnate has the opportunity to reflect on our society in so many ways, to do so much!
Instead, the world of Incarnate is eerily like our own with only a few minor changes to the facade.
If I were to sum up her writing style and JUST the romantic aspects of this book, I would say 'lovely'.But this book looked to be more than just a YA romance and in that it failed.
With a cover as pretty as that you'd think this book would be more dramatic, but unfortunately very little seems to happen for the majority of the novel. The story consists of Ana attempting to discover why she is a Newsoul and managing to fall in love along the way. You see, in this utopian world every soul is reincarnated into a new body once they die, this has continued on and on for thousands of years. Each time a baby is born, they search for a match in the soul database to find out which
And I suppose having souls that are genderless is one way of getting rid of inequalities, I quite like reading books that explore the idea of one gender or being genderless.
But, here's what's weird, and it's all to do with the reincarnation thing again: at one point in the novel, Ana looks at a photograph of Sam when he was a woman in a past life, and she is jealous because he fills out a dress better than her.
It could have explored interesting ideas like the possibility of reincarnation and the nature of the soul.
LIKE WHAT THE FUCK IS GOING ON???Here are some Pros:•I loved the whole concept about the souls even though at times I was so confused about it.
Like I've never read a book about reincarnation and souls so it was a cool subject.
It made no sense with what the blurb said.-I couldn't care less about anything, but the characters.-The writing was beautiful.-It was dull and slow.
Like she didn't even try to help herself for anything.•The lack of world building:-EXPLAIN TO ME ABOUT THE PROCESS OF REINCARNATION FOR THESE SOULS.
PLEASE EXCUSE ME WHILE I READ THE NEXT BOOK.I can't believe I like this.
Everything is glossed over and forgotten about to make room for the sickening romance between Sam and Ana.Here’s how the story basically goes:Ana: “I hate you, you abusing woman!
You too stupid anyway.”Ana attacked by some scary creatures and gets burned decides to jump off a cliff into a lake where she’s rescued by Sam and taken to Heart.Ana: “OMG, everyone HATES me.
I JUST WANT SOME HOT LOVING, WHY CAN’T YOU GIVE IT TO ME?!”Sam: “…I thought you were trying to figure out your origins?”Ana: “Oh, yeah.
Every person in that city is a reincarnated soul, right?
So, the girl leaves home on her birthday to find out the truth behind her birth and what went wrong with the other soul, then runs into some shadow monster, then falls into a lake and gets rescued by this guy (let's call him Bob).
Something something about a Heart, how Bessie thinks EVERYBODY hates her, how Bessie thinks there's something odd about Bob, but oh, she might be falling in love with him...followed by more something something...old libraries, dragons, Bessie's Dad...*YAWN* I stopped reading right about there.
Since I wrote this book, I admit my love of it is not an objective and unbiased love. I would feel weird giving it stars.Since I did NOT make the cover, I have no qualms about telling you how much I adore it! *touches face* *looks dramatic*People seem to really love the cover. (Yay!) If you were curious, I answered a few cover questions in an interview here.
Incarnate deserves to be placed alongside His Dark Materials and The Lord of the Rings as one of the most inventive examples of world-building ever set to paper. Not only has Meadows created a rich and detailed world for her characters to inhabit, she's brave enough to let them ask difficult questions of themselves, their world, and what it would really mean to live in a perpetual cycle of birth and rebirth.Very rarely, five stars doesn't seem to go far enough. This is one of those times.
What happened?I'll tell you what happened.Ana, the protagonist, is seriously one of the most naive, childish, and annoying girls I've ever read about.
I don't know how he attracts Ana. The whole time he was with Ana, I felt like he was an old man explaining his stupid daughter about life and how it works.- "That, my dear, is a house.
She asked him questions, he answered them with the longest answers ever.The whole time Sam talked, I was yelling and crying at the book,You see, I am not a fan of insta-love.
For God's sake, they live in the same house, do the same things, and eat delicious honey together.
The overall plot arc had just begun, but the first initial book-length plot had been successfully resolved.Incarnate had its handy-dandy exposition, yes, but instead of giving me that one hell of a climax, I got an average one that left me unsatisfied, despite giving me answers.The story follows Ana, a newsoul born into a world where every soul has been reincarnated for thousands of years.
The storyline, as I had said before, has some decent exposition, but not decent enough to get me invested in whatever Meadows wanted to tell until about halfway through the book, when we were finally learning more about Heart and less about Sam and Ana’s relationship.I did like the development of Heart, with the pulsing walls and beasts, and market stuff.
At the beginning of the story, she's a bit like an abandoned dog who has been abused and neglected; it takes her time to grow away from all of that even though the emotional scars and memories will never fade.
While it won't be for everyone -- especially those who don't like "age differences" -- I felt charmed by it and glad for Ana that she finally had someone kind and understanding in her life.)Innovation to the "reincarnation trend" aside, the world-building...bothered me a bit.
Putting it frankly, it goes against my belief system and at times I did feel Meadows was pushing some sort of agenda that I wasn’t quite willing to accept.Now, I don’t know if I would classify this story as  YA Utopian .
However, Ana’s journey to discover why she is not a reincarnate is not without its trials as the people of Heart can’t seem to let go of the fact that Ana might just be the first of a new generation of new-souls and they are seeing the end of their perpetual existence..So here’s what I had a difficult time grasping.
Originality at its core, Jodi Meadows has written an incredible world with dragons, sylphs, laser pistols, temple with heartbeats; really- how much more imaginative can it get?
But we're living in a world where you can have babies that are literally not your own, so it makes sense to think that living for thousands of years with reincarnation would desensitize people to things that presently blow our minds.NOSOULAna has had to live with her mother telling her she was a Nosoul for all of her 18 years.
She may have had a hard life, but this makes her loves and joys come from the heart.
I don't know what it is, you guys, but I just can't explain how much I click with this book.
I love the concept, I love the world and how aesthetically pleasing it is for me personally, with its mix of fantasy and sci-fi.
I love how the writing feels so yummy to me and only amps up the overall visualization of Range.
Heck, I even have an intense love for not only the covers of this series but the overall design aesthetic.
I don't know how else to explain it.
I just love it.
As beautiful as the cover!
“If I only get one life, I don’t want to waste it by hesitating”These days I’m a bit out of sync when it comes to the books I read..
I like some books that others don’t, and I don’t like the books the others love, I feel like I’m missing something.This books is one of the books I loved, while some of my book fellows didn’t..
I don’t know what’s the element that really made me like it so much, but I know that from the very beginning I was hooked and couldn’t put it down
Because before Ana was born, another soul vanished forever (it never came back to life again) and that soul was her mother’s best friend.- Her motherOf course in our world it is hard to understand how someone could care more about a friend that a child, but think about the fact that in this fantasy world there is a limited number of souls.
They were a strange but wonderful mix like the world they were living in – she was a newsoul, he was an old-soul; she was impulsive, he was more calculated, they complete each other perfectly.“It’s difficult to focus on my sudies when my best friend is struggling to get through the hour”.He hesitated.
3.5 stars really but i'm feeling generous!this book was so absorbing for me.
despite the synopsis, this book is mainly a romance between the main characters, ana and sam, and i was 100% okay with that because i loved the pair together.
the world was so intriguing.
jodi meadows crafts it with so many unique characteristics that make the world engaging and fascinating.
i wish the world was more detailed, more fleshed out; i wish i still didn't have so many questions.
i don't know why i wish that, since i found this book really enjoyable, but ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
In my opinion, the story became less and less interesting as story progresses since the main plot or goal became blurry along the way.
Yes, there are revelations and sometimes twists in the plot but they didn't help to redeem the lost attention.
The story was too focused on building the romance and friendship between the two main characters, Ana and Sam, that events about incarnation and finding out about Ana seemed just sidetrips.
The main characters, however, were not annoying but they are plain and monotonous.
And the minor characters didn't register to me that much.
“Music overwhelmed me, soaked into my skin like water. I didn’t have words for the squiggles and dashes across the pages, or the way his fingers stretched across the keys to make my heart race. If I could hear only one thing for the rest of my life, this was what I wanted.” You know, I read Incarnate by Jodi Meadows three years go. And to this day I still have no idea how I should rate this book. I keep on bouncing between two stars to four. Why? Because there are some things that I really don'
“He held on to me like I was a rock, the only thing keeping him from drifting out with the tide of dark memories.It was the first time I realized he need me too.”
It actually makes it more annoying, because while Ana and Sam aren't the hormonal We-Need-To-Shove-Our-Sexual-Genitalia-Together-Like-Yesterday type of couple (who try to fool the audience that they're truly in love when in fact it's obviously just their pants talking), their relationship is so awkward and strained.
I wanted to absorb anything they had to say.[...] 'Do you like to read?'How did he know?
The intriguing premise is given several interesting moments but never enough to feel like a fully constructed concept that stands up to scrutiny.
Like many hyped books of the past few months, the world of “Incarnate” rests on a singular premise rather than a fully developed set of rules.
Although I appreciated the romance getting at least some level of development beyond instantaneous true love, it does follow a very stock pattern, with the romantic hero Sam serving as the typical super-sweet and understanding guy who somehow also manages to be a bit of a jerk, but in a way Ana can't resist.
This book is definitely a page turner.A Vague IndicationThe story was set in a dystopian world where souls reincarnate million times, each time in a new body.
After few years Li gave birth to a daughter, Ana. Everyone thought Ciana has returned, but this soul was different, never been born before, a Newsoul.
If it were only a romantic book I would have praise all that romantic moments, but as the book is dystopian, based on complete different subject, I felt the romantic drama was too much for this story.Why I'm Rating it Four StarsOther than that Incarnate was flawless.
This cover is freaking amazing!I read this book so freaking quickly that I really want to get the next book from my library, right now.
I want to go all mission impossible on my library and find all of the books within this series and walk out of there like a boss.
Or just call out of work "sick" tomorrow and spend my day at the library or at barnes and noble and just READ.
Even though Sam has died like 400 times or something and Ana hasn't died once because she was just born into this lifetime.
Incarnate, by Jodi Meadows, book one of the Newsouls series, is difficult to review in some ways, but still so easy to compliment.
The premise is perfect, and it's impossible not to pull for Newsoul Ana, who truly feels alone in this harsh new world.
This world is not without challenges, dangers, and people who wish Ana harm, and the book soars through Ana and Sam's relationship to a breathlessly exciting ending.
This book is a joy to read and to share, and I was honored to share it with the wonderful Sveta, and can't wait to read the rest of the series together :)
*Updated review based on my April 2015 re-read: I STILL LOVE IT PEOPLE. LOVE IT!!!! INTERVIEW WITH JODY MEADOW HERE!  *December 25, 2011 review:*Incarnate blew me away. Seriously my favorite book in its genre so far. It was that good. And the cover is amazing! Now onto to the review:I’m usually not a big fan of fantasy, since often times they tend to lack lack in depth, so the fact that Incarnate has the best female character I have read ever is astonishing. From the summary you know that Anna i
*Updated review based on my April 2015 re-read: I STILL LOVE IT PEOPLE.
I understood everything, her bitterness and hurt, her want for love.There’s also the lovely romance between Ana and Sam. Flawlessly Beautiful.
BUT I will give you this: I have read Chapter 21 and 22 at least 6 times today, and I just finished the book earlier.Incarnate had the power to change my emotions in one line, incredible romance one minute and thrilling action the next.Dragons, Burns, Dance, Music, Romance, Secrets and the constant uncertainty of whom to trust, along with the knowledge that the only way to survive is to believe in one’s self.
The people write journals to document their life which is set in the library to keep safe where anyone can read it.In comes Ana, an eighteen year old nosoul.
I’m such a romantic at heart and in our modern times I’d like to think this is what we call “soulmates.” I wished Jodi added more of a plot in the beginning of the novel just because it felt broken in the middle considering Ana did not research more about her past as much as I would have liked to.
Incarnate is chilling, exciting and full of deeply original fantasy elements. It's a book that could easily appeal to any reader, with elements of light and darkness that make it incredibly riveting and unforgettable.
All her life she was treated like abomination and upon 18 years old birthday Ana leaves her "home" and goes off to find Heart, a city where most old souls live.
On her way she meets this old soul Sam who takes interest in Ana. So together they got to Heart where many things happen.
PLUS: The plot itself, I like the concept of reincarnation and with what happened at the end of the book...I really want to read more.Another plus was that there are dragons and sylph.MINUS: Old souls same faults.
Why I gave Incarnate five stars:1. Unique premise, deftly executed. There's no other story quite like this out there, at least none that I've found.2. A heroine that actually has a character arc and a spine. Not only does she have to learn to trust and love (others and herself), but she has to find a way to forgive the very society who spurns her.3. A sweet, realistic romance that blossoms and grows and takes a little work along the way.
Typically I need time to feel comfortable with the narrator's voice and get my bearings within the story's world--but not so with Incarnate.
Incarnate is a beautifully crafted and layered story.
The first time they kiss, you guys?
Sam as a character is as three dimensional as it gets.
He was scared in some instances, he was weak and depended on Ana to be strong.
A truly amazing story, one of the best I've read in a long while.
I am almost kicking myself for reading it early as I know I'll be waiting that much longer for the sequel.
