https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18369587-the-rustlers-of-pecos-county
Not your average westernNot a bad story, very heavy on the love angle, full of mush, but the actual action just like average western.
Good character development as in all of Zane Grey's books. I liked the theme of redemption. As always, there is plenty of romance and good triumphing over evil in the romantic relationships.
The Texas Rangers do it againI really like Zane Grey’s stories about the rangers. The tend to be supermen at times, but that’s why I read westerns, for escapist fantasy about cowboy heroes
Nice westernNice western describing the role of rangers on the early Texas frontier. Vibrant characters. Another great read from a skilled author.
2.5 stars
Zane GreyOutstanding. Typical Zane Grey. I had not read a western in 15 years ... could not put this book down.
Great book.As usual Zane Grey did it again. His picture of the Texas desert and the wild, wild west was fascinating beautiful,
You know you can't go wrong with a Zane Grey story. I like to read one of these when ever live gets too heavy.
This is a good story, but it's very different from other Zane Grey novels I have read. I notice that it's from later in his career, so it makes me wonder if this was one of the books (as has been rumored on other books) where one of his children co-wrote it with him. It has some of his characteristic writing, but the story-telling is uncharacteristic. More emphasis on the love affairs than I can remember in any other Grey novel I've read (but reminds me of the writings of his son [or grandson, can't remember] Loren Zane Grey).
Great readI love westerns and Zane Grey is a classic in the westerns of the last century. Anyone who likes western action with a little romance mixed in will like this book set in lawless western Texas in the time before law was established when outlaws were the law and no real crime went to court and good citizens were terrorized. The Texas Rangers were fighting for support. Can they succeed or will gang of rustlers drive them out of Pecos badlands.
This book is a partial manuscript (at least in e-reader form). It obviously picks up partway through a story and proceeds to the end. I've read this story under a different Zane Grey title before. This may be an attempt by someone to publish a "new" title and make more money on an unfinished manuscript. Regardless, it is typical Zane Grey western adventure.
One of Grey's finest love stories.Only Grey can write a love story that isn't full of lurid sex, and still keep the reader spellbound. I know it seems to be to idealistic but surely is what most readers word wish for in their own lives.
The Rustlers of Pecos County had a special hero and typically Zane Grey did a superb job in telling the story about him. I'm sure that you will enjoy how he put it all together as much as I did. No matter how many of his books I read I'll never tire reading them. Read and enjoy!
Good western story about cattle rustlers. Too much romance circa 1917. As always, great description of the terrain and atmosphere. If you are new to this author, Riders of the Purple Sage is the place to start.
To much romancehard to follow in the beginning. and to much romance for me. other than that it was a good story.
Bulls EyeNever read a Zane Grey book I didn't like even though this one hit the bulls eye I have read better Grey books therefore he gets 3 stars this time.
First book read on my Kindle Touch.Zane Grey is one of the great western writers, and this was typical of his writing.
Great book I had no Idea Zane Grey was this good of a writer!!
This is my style. A western. A romance. A spellbinding novel capturing the mythos of Texas. Zane Grey is straight forward, descriptive and exciting. One of my favorite of his.
AwsomeGreat story, well written a great mix of the wild west and a love story. I wish all westerners could be written this well.
Very dated book. Gave up pretty quickly in reading it.
A bit slow to start, but I lively ending brought the book together.
descriptions still a little flowery and verbose, especially for a western
Oh, the drama.
