https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/251356.Bad_Behavior
Thus, I have never hate-read an actual book, until this one.So let’s get to a substantive discussion of the stories, shall we?
I don’t have anything to say about that story, because I didn’t actually read it.
Dig it: depressive, college-educated, bohemian, aspiring writer, becomes a prostitute and her favorite client falls in love with her.
Twenty-four years later, these themes fail to raise an eyebrow, (although they did elicit many an eyeroll), leaving the stories feeling flat and meaningless.
I find the outside world too depressing.** the entire time I was reading this, this song was in my head on a loop: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gFRSaw...*** and Gaitskill loves attention.
Joey spends days designing a special Valentine's Day card for Daisy, handing it to her a week after the holiday.-- A Romantic Weekend concerns a young woman named Beth who's recently met and become enamored with a married man.
And we'll have a feast.""Does Brian want to marry you?" asked Virginia dryly.The stories in Bad Behavior often hinge on This Is Your Life moments on the streets of New York--the only city in North America where you can conceivably run into someone you dated or went to college with--but Mary Gaitskill isn't so interested in how relationships can fill a person with something new, but what they can take away or leave in their wake.
I thought of a few things, and they seemed sort of worth saying but when I got home I decided to look at a review I wrote about three and half years ago for the other Mary Gaitskill collection I'd read, and I found that some of the very witty things I thought of saying I'd actually already said in less witty formats.
Reading these stories I got the idea that Mary Gaitskill would be the sort of person you'd be having coffee with and she would start to loudly talk about some kink in her sex life.
I’m on my sixth female writer and so far I’ve encountered “Why roar when the man will take credit for it anyway?”, “What’s the point of roaring when no one pays attention to me anyway?”, “I’d roar if the men would do something for me”, “Ro..., wait never mind.” and “All men want is open legs and closed mouths”.
I’m still in need of my female empowering reading!!
I’ve read great books written by great women but I still need that ROAR with out the neuroses that come with it.
Her fingers and hands, Constance thought, had an exposed, strangely cold and receptive quality, like the nose of a puppy.
As she was watching her clear the table and take the dishes to the kitchen, she could see the many aspects of her lover come forward and shyly recede with each movement; her rigid, stubborn arms, her strong shoulders positioned in a soft, demure curve, her stern chin, her luminous forehead, her odd way of stiffly holding back and gently, curiously moving forward - all spoke of her radial gradations of tenderness, sorrow and radiant, fanlike intelligence.*It's awful.
fuckin a
his book, with its iconic paperback cover (a woman facedown, possibly falling, maybe pounding at the floor) was in every college dorm bookshelf in the late 1980's/early 1990's. If you wanted to be a writer, you read Gaitskill's pitch-black, edgy, creepy tales about men and women behaving badly, and you wondered if this was the real world, or just an especially dark version of it.
Since her descriptive writing is rather intoxicating it made the dialogue hiccups and lack of content more pronounced.
"The strangeness of it all delighted and fascinated him: the falsely gentle voice, the helpless contempt, the choosing of a bored, unknown girl sitting on her ankle, looking out the window."
"The perfume of wealth graced her casually, like grass stains on the skin of a lazy child sleeping in a garden."
"The splintery floor looked craggy and forsaken with it's dead dustball vegetation.""Connie paused and admired the graceful interaction of the three long sesame noodles lying on her plate."
I know I'm late in coming around on the Mary Gaitskill bandwagon.
(No pun intended.) I started reading this book having only read one of her stories before ("Secretary," obviously), but knowing that she dealt with the territory I've begun writing about lately.
Anyone who always finds themselves wondering how to write a short story with a mainstream structure while not writing mainstream content (white males in middle age reflecting on childhood, anyone?), read this book.PS: My favorite stories in this collection are "A Romantic Weekend," "Something Nice," and "An Affair, Edited."
I have always preferred wine over beer. And then I had sour beer, and I fell in love. I skipped dating, the awkwardness of that first sex, and went straight to love. I have always preferred the novel over short stories. And then I read Mary Gaitskill’s “Bad Behavior,” and I fell in love. Gaitskill turns me on. But, not like you think. She is deliberate, and masterful in her use of language, often her sentences were dizzying in their effect upon me. Several times I found myself jarred from my rea
Just as the characters sprinkled in Gaitskill’s stories look to fill some emptiness, some particular need in them, through others, so do we.
She tried to imagine what Leisha looked like inside and pictured a set of dull-colored wires, some dead, others short-circuited and flickering in the dark, discharging a profusion of heat and bright color that sparked wildly, blew fuses and went dead" (98).The individuals that inhabit Gaitskill’s stories seem to all struggle with different dead wires.
The common thread of the struggle for something real, of something beautiful is what binds these stories together.Gaitskill’s overarching themes provide continuity and commonality, but also prove to be a pitfall when reading too quickly.
Take for instance the closing moments of the ultimate story in Bad Behavior where Gaitskill paints the image of what's left of the family sitting down to dinner of steak and pasta, where the patriarch remarks that this is "just like heaven." The emotional weight of the series of tragedies of the characters' lives we've read in rapid succession is somehow supposed to be read culminated in this moment of "juices" running "into the salad," but it's an empty and useless metaphor--an anti-metaphor, really.
I found this book on a list of the ten sexiest books of all time, and I should have known as soon as I saw Tropic of Cancer that the author was confusing "sexy" with "containing sex", but this contains the story that spawned the movie "Secretary"!
They're vignettes about relationships, set in sexy contexts.
It includes less sex.So: it is not one of the ten sexiest books of all time.
It's more sexy than if the contexts for the stories were, like, plumbers.
Are the short stories good for themselves?

I'd only read "A Romantic Weekend" before this collection, which disturbed me and which I still feel is a straight-up horror story.
I was expecting Mary Gaitskill's writing to smack of that experienced-but-not-very-self-aware vibe one sometimes gets from girls who feel smug because they've "lived on the edge" or whatever, e.g.
Gaitskill's clearly too smart for that, though: her stories never hint at judgment in one direction or another, neither for the characters who dwell sort of on the fringe nor for those who perhaps make "safer" choices...
I recalled "Heaven" as a short story that mostly describes a middle-aged mom at a barbecue, sitting in a plastic chair with meat- and food-juices dripping down her face, remembering the lives of her grown-up children, which have in certain ways been disastrous, and yet feeling very powerful and satisfied with herself.
It goes on for almost 30 pages, the time structure sloshes, and the narration mostly takes the form of snapshots, short chunks of text concerning particular memories that Virginia has of her life with her husband and children.
Then in 'Secretary' Debby describes the lawyer with "it felt like he could have put his hand through my rib cage, grabbed my heart, squeezed it a little to see how it felt, then let go." Although 'Secretary' was to grab all the attention after the movie I felt this was one of the less effective stories and the more weakly written duplicate line only served to emphasize its position for me as a paler echo.Gaitskill gets so far inside the characters' heads I don't think it's surprising they're such an unlikeable bunch - who would you like if you know that much of their every thought and emotion?
I find myself landing squarely on the fence for this collection - there were three stories I really admired ("Daisy's Valentine", "Secretary", and "Heaven"), a couple I actively disliked ("Something Nice", "An Affair, Edited"), the others left me largely unmoved.
But you wouldn't choose to spend time with them in real life, and reading about them wasn't all that much fun either.I cannot agree with the charge that Gaitskill is a bad writer, however (as suggested by a certain reader from Nottingham: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...).
Even in the stories that I didn't particularly like, Gaitskill's writing seemed quite impressive.
Even though I disliked some of the stories, the collection definitely makes me want to read Gaitskill's subsequent work.
I can't figure out why I'm not enjoying this book more.
And I don't want to say it's that it doesn't feel original and instead seems rehashed, like I've read the same story but better...because I have a feeling she was on the forefront of giving voice to these loft-having, coke-snorting urbanites...but it just doesn't have the freshness I was hoping for.
Update: I decided to plug on through, and started enjoying it a little more.
I really enjoyed the story "Trying To Be" for purely selfish reasons, and the final story, "Heaven," was the most ambitious and possibly the best.
At times, the themes become redundant, but the writing is consistently provocative:“How, she thought miserably, could she have a mistaken this hostile moron for the dark, brooding hero who would crush her like an insect and then talk about life and art?”“Joey felt that his romance with Daisy might ruin his life, but that didn’t stop him.
It’s been a long time since he felt his life was in danger of further ruin, and it was fun to think it was still possible.”For fans of the movie Secretary, this is where the source material comes from.
I don't know why it's taken me 34 years to discover some very essential things about myself, the most obvious to others, but it has.
This book sort of follows that thought, except it's more precise and well written and cuts straight down the middle of things.
There's a sentence or a paragraph in each essay that just nails it for me.
It's uncomfortable and I don't really enjoy reading it and I don't even know that I would recommend it for fear of the subject matter, but it's just so damn good.The last two essays are my favorite - not overtly sexual, or at all, and just expansive and not all bleakness.

Sure, well-written I suppose, but unpleasant subject matter and hard-to-like characters made this a tough read regardless.I'm not big on short stories and I found this demonstrated why: content became repetitive as we kept harking back to the same themes and the author's axe was ground on a minimal variety of topics.It gave me the same uncomfortableness that a novel like "The Corrections" did, but with much less sense of the absurd and any levity that could come from that.In summary, 'WHAMPP WHAMMP'.
I still have a story and a half to finish, but I feel ready to jot a quick review.
Mary Gaitskill writes deft characterizations and observations.
I especially appreciate her depiction of how the dissolution of close friendships can haunt us as much or more than past romantic relationships.
Although I am not a woman, most of my past friendships have been with women, and I find myself obsessing over the loss of these friendships (or betrayal or disappointment within these friendships) in very similar ways as Gaitskill's protagonists.
These are not experiences I have ever seen portrayed in literature, and I found their representation here refreshing and identifiable.
You know that feeling you get after you’ve been dumped by someone you were intensely in love with where you are so miserable and sad and it feels like something is gnawing at your guts and you’re never going to get your shit together?
These stories feel nothing like that.
These stories feel like what comes AFTER that, when it’s just suddenly over and you feel numb and a little hollow and are skeptical of anyone who shows up at your doorstep offering you love EVER AGAIN.
These stories have an edge and they will eat you for breakfast!!!So yeah, I highly recommend.
Practically perfect in every way. Will write more abt it soon. Eeeeasily one of the best ss collections I've had the pleasure of reading and Gaitskill has earned my trust. I loved everysingleone of these stories and that rarely happens for me re: collections. Esp. loved "Daisy's Valentine," "Trying To Be," "Secretary" and "Heaven." And also, all of the others. Aces.
Deep down, I'm afraid I'll fall in love with you, that I'll need to be with you and f*** you forever."The two most complex stories of the collection are the ones that deal with female prostitution, "Something Nice," and "Trying to Be." These two stories set out to debunk men's myths that women prostitutes are either A) nymphomaniacs or B) former victims of sexual abuse.
When women want to spice up their sex lives, they don't actually "use" anyone, they just use their imaginations and read "Fifty Shades of Grey?"The story "Secretary" is included in this collection.
The book turns out to contain "Secretary," the story on which the Maggie Gyllenhaal movie is (quite loosely) based.
"Trying to Be" which occurs fairly late in the book, contained the coldness and dissociation I described, and yet it moved me.
What redeemed the book for me was the way Gaitskill writes about friendships and other relationships between women.
I'm not sure if the end of the book was better or if, by reading through the beginning, I began to connect better with Gaitskill's style.
I thought this book was profound, intriguing, and original in the choice of subject matter.
Her characters are frail, vulnerable, and make bad decisions which threaten to swallow them whole at a later point in time.
You feel the isolation of Gaitskill's characters, both from other people and from their true selves, in a cold and unforgiving urban environment.
In "Trying to Be", Stephanie becomes a prostitute out of contempt for boring office work.
Gaitskill tackles unconventional subject matter like prostitution, drug addiction, and S&M, without creating her characters in the likeness of inhuman monsters.
I’ve spent an entirety of less than thirty days in New York City, the central location of the transgressions in Mary Gaitskill’s Bad Behavior, but I am intimately acquainted with each and every feckless hero and heroine.
The kids and middle-aged adolescents acting out in Bad Behavior are in the moment but not of the moment, or maybe the other way around.
Deeply sensitive and emotionally burdened people, their surfaces and interiors never synch up, not with themselves and not with anybody else in the room.
I am sure that was what Gaitskill was trying to capture--the lack of foundation or the semblance of security that we feel that we have in our lives, yet life finds a way to constantly put you in your place, letting you know that as wonderful as your dreams or plans may be, there will always be a catch and life is messy and chaotic, and don't you wish things were simpler like when you were a child, but wait, that pretty much sucked as well.
