https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/481124.The_City
Classic...the alienation of the city has never been captured better.
Fantastic collection. Masereel found a fascinating way to leverage an interesting medium: woodcuts provide only black and white, no grey. He uses the stark maximum contrast to portray scene after scene of exploiter alongside exploited, alienation within crowds, all the wonderful & terrible of city life.
Una joyita.
In 1920s Germany, there was a genre of city streets films, many of which had no plots or characters to speak of.
Frans Masereel's The City belonged to this genre.
Unlike the same artist/author's Passionate Journey, what we have is a series of uncaptioned woodcuts showing the city, the rich, the poor, crowds, heavy industry, life, death, seduction, suicide, even poetry, such as the image of a black cat coming down a staircase at night.
The effect is similar to Lynd Ward's work in the United States.
I have always loved the woodcut as an art form, as Masereel and Ward both have produced woodcut books without words, but not without effect.
A cidade em 100 imagens negras e silenciosas. Os ricos e os pobres. O nascimento e a morte. O trabalho. A alienação. A solidão e o entretenimento que o tenta curar. A cidade cheia de pessoas. A cidade vazia de emoções... Um trabalho que influenciou vários artistas importantes que se seguiram a Masereel.
An amazing work from 1925 that very beautifully depicts the Industrial Revolution affecting German city life, all depicted in woodcuts. Masereel is an excellent artist and deserves more recognition with this book.
Amazing, amazing, amazing...First time I saw his art in illustrations, read as a teenager. Still great to see his art!
✭✭✭½
Wonderful book of detailed woodcuts depicting a dark industrial age built on the books of the common man for the benefit of the 1%. The book starts with a man looking out at the City from a field of flowers and follows the journey to the end where he is looking out from a tenement building with a Edvard Munch "Scream" on his face.There is so much said in this book without the aid of words, highly recommended.I'll have to make an effort to track down more from this graphic artist/ storyteller.
Desgarrador, hecho con exquisitez. La alienación de la vida moderna, las violentas desigualdades sociales que seguimos sin superar, todo expresado mediante sublimes xilografías en blanco y negro. Para amantes de las artes plásticas y del cómic por igual.
This book of 100 masterfully done woodcuts is Masereel's interpretation of life in the burgeoning urban centers of Europe between the world wars. It is not a graphic novel without words like the work of Lynd Ward, but more of an expressionistic stream of thought visual treatises on the base nature of humanity in the city. The good and the bad. The beautiful and the ugly. Really amazing and powerful work. After decades of being out of print this has final come back-buy this now before it disappears again!
100 woodcuts, originally published as Die Stadt. Although called a graphic novel, it really isn't; unlike the two earlier books it does not tell a continuous story but is more a series of depictions of life in the city, alternating views of poor and rich people in various situations, from birth to death and burial, work, entertainment, etc. It reminded me of the later (1927) silent film Berlin: Symphony of a Great City. Some of the images are very powerful.
Un libro que debe mirarse, primero velozmente y luego grabado a grabado. La unidad de las imágenes en esta precursora de la novela gráfica se encuentra en las últimas ilustraciones. Aprecié el trnascurso de un día entero, sugerido siempre por la bóveda celeste sobre los hijos del hombre. Genial el blanco y negro. Imprescindible la mirada de Masereel.
Me ha impresionado lo moderno del dibujo y el planteamiento. También del contenido, porque variando ligeramente los modelos de los coches y los vestidos de los protagonistas, se podría publicar ahora mismo.
Ran across this guy's name in an article about Lynd Ward. Visited Harold Washington Library Center this afternoon and read this book. Very beautiful. They own copies of some of his other books so I'll be reading more by this incredible artist. Do check him out if you love art books.
Some of this is pretty interesting. But a few too many boobs for my taste.
Como pionera de la novela gráfica es cruda y demasiado vigente, es la biografía de cualquier ciudad. Una novela que no se lee, para narrar la historia en tu cabeza.
reommended by oscar
Expressionist master's 100 woodcuts depicting urban Europe between the world wars.
Perturbantemente actual.
I would have appreciated some writing on the work, but beautiful prints nonetheless.
I am so happy that Dover has made this widely available and that my stepmom had the insight to get it for me.
HAAS ARTS LIBRARY, Art & Arch Collection (7 Day Circ)Request scan of article/chapter Call Number: NJ18 M422 A1213 1988 (LC)Status:Not Checked Out
