https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149645.The_Virgin_and_the_Gipsy_Other_Stories
A real, wild bodice-ripper of a book, but much better written because D.H. Lawrence whether he was writing his deep, intense novels or frippery like this, wrote really well. I don't like romances much but this one was quite good, if a bit silly and unlikely, but then that is often the point of romance books anyway. In this case, because the book is so old and it does read in a dated way too, it could be excused by saying it was 'of its day'.
Loved the book. This is for any woman who has had to curb her natural urge to go against the grain.
I know this isn't exactly a review of the book, The Virgin and The Gypsy, but here's some advice-- save yourself three hours (it's a short book, only about 120 pages) and read something COMPELLING or at least something with a story.
This book was boring as hell, had no story, the characters were wooden and unimaginative, and I wish that damn flood at the end killed ALL OF THEM including the author for making me sit through 3 hours of bad writing.

D.H. Lawrence can kiss my ass!
I don’t know why.
I pretty much consider his writing perfect— maybe not objectively the best, I don’t know anything about that, but the best for me.
Like, if I could design my perfect writer, that would be Lawrence.
Like both of those writers, he also writes worlds that have such surreal symmetry and unrealistic aptness that they could almost be considered magical realism but not… not quite, somehow.
Basically he draws the innate weirdness and coincidences and magic of the real world and magnifies them to remind us they’re there.
The absolute paradox of all of them.
I absolutely did not expect that ending.
I read this story years ago, one day in a small colonial town in Uruguay.
The setting along with the story gave me the impression of being suspended in a dream.
I loved this story, simple though it is, and thought it romantic and full of erotic yearning.
Like Lady Chatterly's Lover, Lawrence seems to be fascinated with the idea of a woman falling in love with someone far below her station.
I think this is a fascinating theme and enjoy the repressed and restrained desire in both of these stories.
At this point in his career, he was living under the radar after his previous novels caused quite a few stirs with their scandalous presentations of never-before-published four letter words and graphically sexual scenes. This novel has little to thrust a curious eyebrow to the modern reader, but still raises some interesting topics such as love, class, youth, and ennui, that should be able to hold your attention for a book that I read in one sitting. The ending is appealingly quite unexpected.
A little gem of a story by the always delightfully debauched Lawrence. He really lets his anger and frustration at the general repression of his sexual urges as dictated by society seethe in this one, one of the last things he wrote I believe. And there's the usual dichotomy between society/authority and nature/desire, but laid out very concisely. If you need a jumping off point for Lady Chatterly's Lover/Lawrence this is a good novella to start with.
This was going to be a solid 4 stars until I came to the last two stories of the collection,  The Man Who Loved Islands  and  The Man Who Died.  Both are about being at peace along, rather than settling for less in an attempt to escape lonliness, and they just spoke to my soul at the moment... Hopefully in the future I'll feel the same about other stories, as these two just reached into me, I loved them.
On the whole, I'm very impressed with the story, but I can't help feeling that the ending could have been more revealing. There's lots of mystery around the gypsy's character that I'd like to hear more about.
I read the title story and one other and then chucked it.
The story wasn't to my liking anyway but I was really bothered that it seemed like a first draft.
It just seemed like something a writer would do in a first draft.
I would have read this in a writing class maybe I could appreciate his methods, but I was expecting a finely crafted short story and I didn't feel this was it.
bleh.Read on vacation north of Taos, near the the DH Lawrence cabin / gravesite.
This was my first experience with DHLawrence, and I'm pleased with our meeting. I thought this short story was interesting and was a very smooth flow of words. I understand this particular story was published after the author died, which could explain any awkward segues or my confusion at the random flood (which was explained at the end). Anyway, as to the story itself, I definitely related to Yvette's 'wild' side. I look forward to reading some more of Lawrence's works.
Collection of short stories and novellas. I liked the titular story more than any of the others, all written in Lawrence's particular style.
Un embole. Todos los cuentos iguales. Pretencioso. Tiene un puñadito de palabras "raras" que repite en cada cuento. Préstamos del francés sumamente innecesarios.
This rating is based on the title story "The Virgin and the Gipsy" which I found an enthralling read. Great characterisation, and very evocative descriptions. I was less keen on the other stories collected here, such as "Rawdon's Roof" and "The Escaped Cock."
My Plot:The Story focus on a Small vicar family which contains a Father and two daughters in addition to an old blind woman and a spiteful aunt.
Positive and Negative Aspects: The main beautiful aspect of the story was the simplicity of the events, and the smoothness of the narration techniques, the nature of the plot was very simple, it was somehow meant to be read by small children, like the Snow White and the seven Gypsies.
My Personal Reaction:Personally, I enjoy reading this story, It was short and simple the characters were not complicated and the Author's touch was smooth.
Shorter stories in this same vein are 'The Lovely Lady' and 'Rawdon's Roof,' the latter of which I found very funny.But 'Rawdon's Roof' is tending towards the other aspect of Lawrence's writing apparent in this collection: short stories that are more like fables or even parables.
There's a massive contrast between this and 'Love Among the Haystacks.'If you, like me, have read and enjoyed Lawrence's novels, I would recommend checking out his short stories too - they will remind you what a remarkable writer he is.

The Virgin and the Gipsy actually takes up most of this collection, and is more novella than a short story.
Published after the author's death.
Maybe that's why it felt so unfinished to me.
Still, the tension between Yvette and the Gipsy is captivating, and I loved the description of Yvette's rotting home.
I actually preferred some of the short stories included in this collection, like "The Lovely Lady" and "The Rocking Horse Winner." The last two stories in the collection are tough to get through, more meditations on isolation than actual stories.
The story of a "decent" girl, her dysfunctional family and her wild un-consumed love to a gypsy.
Though the story starts off well, in terms of analysis of characters and actions.
Though the author exaggerates a bit the evilness of the evil, the goodness of the good and the stupidity of the stupid.
But then once the story starts getting serious and the frame is set, the author loses track of details and focuses on the main character only.In the end, the book seemed more like a teen's show rather than a deep story.
But it was nice and I enjoyed reading it.
This was an odd little tale peopled with rural characters grappling with their relationship to water management. Yup. With descriptions of gypsies straight out of The Wolfman and a generous use of the term "Jewess," again and again. Two thirds of the way in I still had a feeling that this was a silly work. But as has been the case for me in earlier readings of Lawrence's fiction, by this novellas completion, all of a sudden, I realized it was a worthwhile.
With his luscious prose and bold sensuality, D.H. Lawrence infuses his short novel with what can only be termed agonizing anticipation. The Virgin and the Gypsy is less direct than Lady Chatterly's Lover, but develops a richer sense of yearning in both characters and readers as we wait for something to happen. He takes on familiar themes of family strife, existentialism, the role of women and class in an enticing, yearning, fun to read tale with an epic physical and metaphorical climax.
if you're looking for a quick foray into lawrence's style, this is a nice quick read, and moves a little more quickly than Lady Chatterly's Lover, or Women in Love. of course, it also doesn't dive nearly as deep. i really enjoyed lawrence's descriptive passages of the countryside and his ability to convey the sense of social confinement and boredom his characters feel within that landscape.
Yvette and Lucille return reluctantly from school to their father the Rector and their dank, dark home in the rectory. They find life stultifying and yearn for something more. A chance encounter with a gypsy begins a sexual awakening in Yvette. She sees in the handsome gypsy a life with fresh air and freedom, a life totally different from the narrow expectations of her own class.
Mmmm...yummy - all the classic elements of taboo and insanity in family and society, shown for the tragedy they are. Lawrence has honed his skills by this last stage in his career, sparing the reader at least an extra hundred pages of roundabout mood setting. A smashing ending gives it an extra star and a special place in my memory.
One I read some time ago, probably a decade past, at my uncle's house over the holidays, hence my noting it here.The more interesting, general question is: what books have we read, but that we have forgotten entirely? Were they so average?
Somewhat disappointing. Not up to the DH Lawrence I have read in the past.Lots of build up to an ending where nothing happens...There are glimmers of the author's insight into relationships and human interaction.
It's been a while since I've read anything "classic" and it strikes me that D.H. Lawrence tells the story with all the things he leaves out as much as what he describes... I like the simplicity of the language.
What I realized when I finished the book was that the whole thing was building to the last line, and the payoff of the last line was absolutely incredible. The Eastwoods were really fascinating characters, quite original (to me).
