https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6462.His_Excellency
While no where near the depth of Chernow's tome, Ellis covers all the main themes of Washington's life from youth, to bumbling but ambitious officer in the French and Indians wars, to much-maligned, beleaguered Revolutionary war hero, to his service as President -- and truly father of his new nation -- for the first two terms of the new federal government (whose survival was by no means guaranteed).It's impossible to not be in awe of Washington, who, unlike many great men throughout history, failed to control ambition and its interaction with the achievement of great power.
Probably the most apparent burden struck by Ellis, and a theme readily illusive throughout his book, is the author's effort to avoid what he terms a certain "hyperbolic syndrome" that is usually associated with any critical discussion of George Washington.
Instead, at appropriate times, Ellis grasps certain themes throughout the book and interesting weaves them into the narrative coming back to them repeatedly.
At certain points in the book, Ellis illuminates Washington's then-current view on the topic, or more appropriately Washington's wrestle with and evolving view on the institution.
"His Excellency" is a great starting point for any study of the life of George Washington.
Washington seemed to lead a charmed life; by rights, he should have died early, in the crushing battles at Monongahela during the French and Indian War. But no matter how many battlefields he rode across or how many political tensions threatened to crush the American experiment, Washington persevered - on the correct side of history.
Washington's life and 17th-century American politics are almost interchangeable here, and Ellis does a great job of narrating how Washington was shaped by his extraordinary experiences.My favorite section of this book was Washington's presidency.
Like with American Sphinx: The Character of Thomas Jefferson Ellis knows his subject has been written about before and probably better.
He isn't looking to redo or modernize the biography of George Washington.
He wants to narrowly explore the character of George Washington AND write a slick and easily digestible biography that will sell well.
Joseph Ellis is in the same shelf as that popular pantheon of Founding biographers: Walter Isaacson, Jon Meacham, David McCullough, Edmund Morris, Ron Chernow and Doris Kearns Goodwin.
Not as solid as Chernow or Morris, not as slick as Meacham or Isaacson.
It was done like a third person observation of George Washington.
(I plan to read Cherow's biography of Washington soon as well).In His Excellency, Ellis paints the great general and first president as an imposing physical presence whose enduring legacy reaches Demi-god status but who nonetheless had a checkered record.
I guess the thing I appreciated the most was how easy it would have been for Washington to pull a Napolean-like move and become an emperor following his victory at Yorktown.
His nemesis during the war, King George III actually said that he would be the "greatest of men" if he stepped away after the victory at Yorktown and this is precisely what he did.
http://eraumaveznaamerica.blogs.sapo....Religion in the United StatesHow to religion has been one of the presidential campaigns of a leading candidate for the presidential in the United States, I decided to withdraw this text of a Web site:The overwhelming majority of the 44 American presidents were religious.
The Presbyterian Church had eight presidents.
Interestingly, the greatest American religious group, the Catholics, only had a President: John F.
In the following decade, with Ronald Reagan and the New Right (New Right), these evangelical movements approached decisively the Republican Party, winning an undeniable weight in its support base.
First response: Ellis pontificates beyond my comfort level. I enjoy grand sentences, but this is way to much. His flourishing, over-bloated style does little to represent Washington (who, Ellis admits, was not a high intellectual.) He definitely covers the highs and lows, but he offers an incredible amount of personal opinion and unsubstantiated analysis, and even second-guesses motives. I am glad to know about Washington's life, and to have insight about him, but I have enjoyed very little of this book. Unfortunately, I am reading directly after finishing John Adams and Team of Rivals, and it does not compare.
I'm glad I read this book, but I'm glad I'm finished it too. I'm not sure if I'll read any others by this author. He interjects too much of his own opinions and spent lots of time denigrating his subject! Although I learned a lot, it was pretty dry and did not include enough flesh on the bones of history for me. No comparison to Walter Isaacson's conversational style, which I read just prior to this. Had I not, I may have enjoyed this one a whole lot more. Now on to John Adams! May the force be with me!
“He was that rarest of men: a supremely realistic visionary.” (A brilliant politician with a moral compass and the ability to imagine the judgements of posterity.) Like Lincoln, like Grant - and the three are companions on an old Cuban cigar box lid, “Los Inmortales.” To me Washington seems a heroic template for Lincoln and Grant, showing how one disciplines “a truly monumental personal ego” and “a massive personal agenda” - and, in Grant’s case, a primal ease in violence - to larger national interests, to themes of the common good.
I'm trying not to let that affect my reading of this book but I wanted to put that out there.I appreciate that Ellis is upfront about how we romanticize historical figures but especially Washington.
We need to understands all sides of the person before we can really make a decision about their character.I had a problem with Ellis’s discussion of Washington’s slaves.
But Ellis seems to be stating the facts and then trying to justify it by saying well, Washington didn’t treat them horribly.
In fact, he treated them well and he really only say it as business, nothing personal.
It's not hard to read but is heavy on the facts.
Interesting perspective but this was as much opinion as history. I thought the author too often tried to pass off his own opinions as Washington's which detracted from an otherwise solid overview of an amazing man's life.
I just returned from a visit to Washington, D.C. and Mount Vernon, so I'm in a patriotic mood.
It left me hungry for more details: I wanted to know more about his personal experience during that winter at Valley Forge; I wanted to know more about his relationship with Martha, and perhaps it's petty, but I wanted to know more about his teeth.In the museum at Mount Vernon there is an entire alcove devoted to Washington's lifelong dental troubles, yet this book contains perhaps two sparse sentences concerning this issue which must have had a tremendous impact on his quality of life.
The schism in his cabinet between the two factions led to the creation of political parties in American politics.Topical at the time I finished this book, the focus of his post-presidency years was on a complex financial scheme that involved selling off parcels of his property that would enable him to free all of the slaves under his control.
Yet he was able to be the leading figure in both the fight for independence and the struggle for nationhood – the Father of Our Country, indeed.In all, a comprehensive biography - as Ellis intended - and fair in its assessments.
When looking at this earl U.S. history, today's "tea-party" groups are more like the Shay rebellion or the whiskey debt rebellions of 1794 which Washington referred to as "self created societies" that "represented a tyranny of the minority against the will of the majority, that their only revolutionary principle was that every man can cut and carve for himself" (224).
In the first and only time in American history a sitting president led soldiers into the field and crushed the whiskey insurrection; and surely he'd scoff just the same at today's so called Libertarians.
Very readable biography of GW.
His Excellency: George Washington is another solid biography by Joseph Ellis, arguably the best contemporary historian of America's Founding Fathers.
As with Ellis's other work, it's less a traditional biography than a non-linear character study, using specific events and incidents to probe Washington's personality and character.
Whether one comes away from Ellis's book with enhanced respect for Washington, or frustration at his foibles, is up to the reader, but it's a commendable job at humanizing a figure who's still treated with godly deference today.
I think the best way for me to summarize this book is: George Washington's life, basically, sucked.As a young man, he was basically broke.
During the first half of this book when GW was being mentioned as the "Commander in Chief" I kept thinking, "Um...did I miss where he became president?" Only to then realize that I'm an idiot.
And another thing that sucked for GW, he was our nation's guinea pig and really got crapped on in terms of people talking badly about him.
But you've got to admit, even though he didn't always make the best decisions, he was the one that really and truly believed we could be independent.
For example, Ellis claims little is known about Washington's earlier years.
The Real George Washington finds plenty of material from which to build a portrait of Washington as a young man.My major complaint about this book is that Ellis views Washington and his actions through a prism of current social justice philosophy.
Certainly, opinion can be stated, but it should be done in a way that places it outside the actual events and is clearly defined as such.If you have time to read but one Washington biography, try The Real George Washington.
I say this was a sludge to get through. And I am a major biography reader. The authors tone speaks louder than the historical portrait he paints, which obstructs your view and spoils the experience of learning about this man and his times. Truly this book is a disservice for the biography space. Instead of being immersed into the time and riding along one of the most inspiring and courageous American journeys, we are lambasted throughout the entire book by the authors disdain and utterly unwarranted opinion of Washington. I was nothing but mad and frustrated.
A very interesting bio of Washington, showing his political views, his moral and practical concerns about slavery, his role in the founding and sustaining of the new country, and his concerns with his long-term reputation. This is the first book in my new presidential bio challenge.
As Ellis says (page xi): "In Washington's case the arc moves from Parson Weems' fabrications about a saintly lad who could not tell a lie to dismissive verdicts about the deadest, whitest male in American history." In placing him among other of the Founders, Ellis makes, I think, an insightful point (page xiv): "It seems to me that Benjamin Franklin was wiser than Washington; Alexander Hamilton was more brilliant; John Adams was better read; James Madison was more politically astute.
I found this book to be a good overall biography of George Washington without being too intense.
It read more like a novel than a textbook.
The author did a good job of drawing you in.
He tried to analyze what Washington's character was like and what drove him, which I found as an interesting angle.
I also learned about how his ideas on slavery changed over the course of his life.
While George Washington has always seemed larger than life, this book made me able to grasp a little more who he was as a man.
Ellis' biography of Washington was refreshing after being immersed in two immense biographies that spare no details.The beauty of Ellis' book, beyond its accessibility, was that his intent was not to describe what Washington did, but rather to examine who Washington was.
I found the lack of painstaking detail refreshing, as I've read a dozen books on the events, but nothing that examined the psyche of Washington as its sole intent.Well worth the read.
No one the least bit familiar with Washington could honestly embrace such a fiction: Washington carried his personal palimpsest of these Rules with him until his death, and the results of his assiduous practice of them was often noted by contemporaries during his life.
In brief, Ellis takes a well-known feature of the Washington persona and implies that its root was irrelevant.
This is not scholarship.In lieu of this somewhat presentist and slyly sniping volume, otherwise generally well-researched as far as those actual facts chosen for presentation are concerned, I'd recommend instead any of Richard Brookhiser's works specific to George Washington.Disappointed!
Ellis dug deep into the 18th century records and put some life back into a legendary individual who has been dead for over 200 years.Its greatest strength is the character analysis Ellis strung together from historical fragments, letters, and events.
“His Excellency” also goes the distance in demonstrating what made Washington so successful in his personal life, as Commander in Chief of the Continental Army, and as the first President.To find fault with this book one must pause and consider if the analysis Ellis put forth is always correct.
He lost many battles, but continued, undaunted until the war was won.Portraits of George Washington show him as distant, even intimidating and cold.
Yet, as his life unfolded, I envisioned him at 11 when he lost his father, at 21 when he was appointed emissary for the governor of Virginia, and at 23 as a brave young officer who gained recognition for his valour in the French and Indian War. I imagined him years later at Valley Forge, where he shared the cold winter months with his men.
Washington stated again and again that the hand of providence had spared him (particularly during the French Indian War) to take part in the formation of a new country.
He knew he had been graced by the hand of providence to fill his roll as commander of the Continental Army and a few years later as the first President of the United States.It was very interesting to learn that Washington was at conflict with himself about the slavery issue.
He didn't free them earlier because his wife Martha didn't have the same feelings about freeing slaves and at least half of the slaves were Martha's.
Fair, balanced, and fantastically enlightening, Ellis paints an insightful portrait of America’s greatest patriarch.
Fortunately, Ellis can credibly count himself among those most skilled, and delivers a very honest portrait of Washington.
Instead he presents an account that both fully and justly explains Washington’s political and personal failures – as well as his successes – in confronting these topics so critical to his posterity.
At times, Ellis’ language is a bit confusing and could be simplified for greater accessibility, but little more can be said to criticize this inspirational masterpiece.
Enjoyable and brief biography of Washington.
Ellis gets beyond the legends and myths that have grown around Washington to discuss his character through incidents in his life.
Ellis insightfully points out that it is Washington's relinquishing of power that is the foundation of his place in history.
Twice - at the end of the revolution, and again after two terms as President, he walked away from power (and his acts as President defined the role as non-autocratic).I found it a concise and fair view of GW.
Washington: A Life is 900 pages.
I found Ellis' level more to my needs.
Also interested to see how much he used Hamilton's energy and zeal about Federalism to shield himself and to be able to portray himself as more neutral, when really Washington also wanted a strong national government.
Also interesting to see how this viewpoint came out of Washington's experience as a war general; how difficult it was to command and manage an army without a strong central government to provide money, supplies, communication, and support.
I was also interested in learning more about Washington's complicated views on slavery and Native Americans.
