https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38664775-sea-prayer
Khaled Hosseini's  Sea Prayer  isn't a book—it's a poem. But it's more than a poem—it is, in essence, a letter written from father to son, a prayer lifted up on the eve of a journey away from their war-torn country, a journey which could prove tremendously dangerous.In less than 50 pages, Hosseini's words and the beautiful illustrations break your heart. This was inspired by the story of Alan Kurdi, a three-year-old Syrian boy believed to have drowned during his family's attempts to flee their c
But it's more than a poem—it is, in essence, a letter written from father to son, a prayer lifted up on the eve of a journey away from their war-torn country, a journey which could prove tremendously dangerous.In less than 50 pages, Hosseini's words and the beautiful illustrations break your heart.
The remembrances of better times, reflections of a country once utterly beautiful but now devastated by war and the resulting effects, words that a young boy might not understand now but might grow to appreciate later.I read this in just a few minutes and it punched a hole in my heart.
It's a letter from a father to his son, the night before they leave their war-torn country for a safer place.
You can feel his fear and at the same time his knowledge that there's no real good choice.
Leaving is dangerous and there's a very real chance that one or all of them will die.
I think it's impossible to read this and not feel so much compassion for refugees.
(But, of course, the people who need to find their compassion are the same people who would never read this book.)Highly recommended.
Wave after wave......From calm seas of memories to the over-powering turbulence of the present, Khaled Hosseini presents a story drifting from father to son in the form of a tragic letter.
From the shores of chaos come words that touch the lips and soften the heart in slow steady beats.
What was is no longer and what will be is only for fate to decide.Hosseini's father figure grasps the small hand of his son and tries to paint within him a canvas of what life was like in his grandfather's house in Syria so long ago.
And those words, those words will take residence in your heart.
A piece that we understand and that gently awakens our ability to show compassion.I am slightly ashamed to say that the only other book I read from this author was his graphic novel adaptation of The Kite Runner.
This beautiful poem about the refugee crisis reminded me of a time, I believe three years ago, when I was asked by someone what my opinion was on the people taking refuge in Canada.
The author is right: If everyone knew what refugees go through in detail, no one would dare say they should go back to where they came from unless, you know, they're not human.Blog | Youtube | Twitter | Instagram | Google+ | Bloglovin’
I read this short offering by Hosseini, an author I very much admire, in a matter of minutes.
In the title is the word prayer, and it is a prayer to a child, a people, young people who will never know the country of their birth, Syria, without bombs, towns in ruins and starvation.
It is indeed a homage to the many who have lost their lives to the sea, fleeing a worn torn country.
Among the 4, 176 who died or went missing attempting this journey, was a three year old named Alan Kurdi, and Hosseini wrote this short, beautiful piece for them.
Sea Prayer is a beautifully illustrated short story (very short), where a father reminisces with his sleeping son in his arms.
They are seeking a better life for themselves and their families.Sadly, often these refugees don’t reach their destination.
Khaled Hosseini was inspired to write this short story by the news and photo many of us read and saw of the little boy that drowned crossing the Mediterranean Sea in 2015.
Also, sadly, often the refugees that do make it to another country are not welcomed.
The United States once welcomed refugees.
Original: 3 stars.*I think I could read it while holding my breath.*WHAT IS THIS, A STORY FOR ANTS?*VERY, VERY, VERY SHORT.*And overpriced.
You can find it on Youtube.*I love you, KH, but why am I feeling scammed?*I will still buy your books tho.
But I will CHECK THE NUMBER OF PAGES.*EDIT 1, 2 stars.
It could have been so much more, while still being a short thing (not that short tho).
2 stars for the message and for the theme and for the cute poem...
a waste...
of money.
Sorry.*EDIT 2, 1 star.
No, actually I'm not OK.
”This book is dedicatedto the thousands of refugeeswho have perished at seafleeing war and persecution.”Khaled Hosseini, author of ’The Kite Runner,’ A Thousand Splendid Suns, and And the Mountains Echoed has combined his writing skills with the artistic skills of Dan Williams, illustrator, for this epistolary poem, from father to son upon the journey which they are about to embark.As this is a letter from a father to son to young to have his own memories, the content is meant for, and appropriate for, all ages.
A reflection on better times, something we can all relate to be guilty of now and then, he shows his son through his stories the beauty of the life and the country which they are about to leave.
YASSSSSSSSHHHH FINALLY. A NEW FREAKIN’ BOOK.
Even amongst the bombs, starvation, and burials, hope never dies. Witness here a father’s prayer that his son shall know safety, security, and home as a place of happiness. A short read that is poignant and powerful.
Only a talent like Hosseini could conjure such poignancy and pain in a few scant pages. Beautiful in the telling, magnificent in its illustrated execution; a reminder that there are so many who will risk everything for refuge. Thank you, Mr. Hosseini.
A short, but impactful read, Sea Prayer is a letter from a father to his son, reflecting on their life up until this point, and the potential hazards as they travel across the sea.
You can feel the father’s love for his son, and also sympathize with the dread he must feel as they prepare for the risks that lie ahead, in an effort to escape danger and turmoil, to seek a better life.
Sea Prayer was a very quick read but one I really enjoyed.
The illustrations were great as well, with the colors changing along the tone of the story.
Sea Prayer is like that rare songbird singing on a winter morning, only to fly away in a moment. Inspired by the haunting image of young Alan Kurdi, the three-year-old Syrian boy whose body washed up on the beach in Turkey in September 2015, it is a touching tribute to the families of the refugees who've lost everything but their memories of wartime.Alan Kurdi, another life lost at sea. Its only flaw, though, is its incredibly short length. Written in the form of a touching letter from a refugee
Inspired by the haunting image of young Alan Kurdi, the three-year-old Syrian boy whose body washed up on the beach in Turkey in September 2015, it is a touching tribute to the families of the refugees who've lost everything but their memories of wartime.Alan Kurdi, another life lost at sea.
Written in the form of a touching letter from a refugee father to his child, author proceeds from this book will be donated to UNHCR and The Khaled Hosseini Foundation in the hopes of giving the ones who've lost all to war and persecution a better life.Sea Prayer is a father’s reflection as he watches over his sleeping son, on the dangerous journey across the sea that lies before them.
SOS MundoQuando um cadáver dum menino de 3 anos, assoma à costa da Turquia, é legítimo interrogarmo-
And Sea Prayer, at its core, harbors a similar cry for life.A father with his young son, Marwan pressed to his chest, is awaiting a ship that shall take them away from home.
Under the dark clouds of the night, the father casts a nostalgic eye on the glorious days gone by at Homs and prays to instill hope in his young son’s heart, and within himself, despite the circumstances otherwise.
And in this poignant account, Hosseini brings to fore, in restrained luminosity, the plights of parents under such calamitous skies.The appeal of Sea Prayer grows manifold with the marvelous illustrations of Dan Williams.
"I have heard it said we are the uninvited./ We are the unwelcome./ We should take our misfortune elsewhere."I think “we” all thought when the famous photo of Alan Kurdi raised our collective ire and brought tears to our eyes, that “something would be done”.
Toddler Alan Kurdi, September 2015Below are a few of the lines and the beautiful illustrations of Hosseini's tribute, which I hope will raise not just ire and tears but money and support for refugees.
Hosseini, who comes from Afghanistan, now has a non-profit foundation for Afghan refugees: https://www.khaledhosseinifoundation....He is donating the author proceeds to the UNHCR and the publisher is donating £1 from the sale of this book to UNHCR.
The young boy named Alan Kurdi, three-year-old Syrian refugee became a symbol of the plight of so many others fleeing conflict and persecution in Syria and elsewhere left the world heartbroken.
Hosseini impelled to write this story by the haunting image of young Alan Kurdi.
Highly recommended!P.S. If you want to help the refugees like Kurdi's, who have been splintered and forced from home by war and persecution buy a original copy of this book.

Left heartbroken after seeing the photo of toddler Alan Kurdi's body lying face-down on a Turkish beach, Hosseini sought to express his feelings, as a father, regarding families of refugees enduring physical and emotional loss to reach a potential safe harbor.
Sea Prayer is Hosseini's tribute to refugees who have lost their lives and to those who have continued their journey after losing everything else.
This short essay, written in the form of a fictitious letter from a refugee father to his sleeping son, is also a prayer for humanity, meant to evoke compassion and create conversation.For libraries having a hard time deciding how to catalog this:I'm putting ours in 818.609 and adding American Prose Literature -- 21st Century as the first subject heading followed by fiction headings and the GSAFD for War Stories.
He can only pray.Khaled Hosseini first captured my heart with 'The Kite Runner' and since then I have read many books by him.
'Sea Prayer' is his first release in many years but it has that same depth, soul and emotional quality of all his previous books.
Its a poetic and timely book that will stay with me for a long time.Hosseini was inspired to write this book after the death of Alan Kurdi.
Alan and his family were Syrain refugees that were trying to flee on a boat.
Alan was only three years old.
“Because all I can think tonight is how deep the sea, and how vast, how indifferent. How powerless I am to protect you from it.”
Okay, well spent three minutes.
Khaled Hosseini was inspired to write Sea Prayer after seeing the photo of the corpse of 3 year old Alan Kurdi washed up on a Turkish beach in September 2015; he was one of thousands of refugees who died fleeing the war in Syria.
Sea Prayer is a short all-ages book which takes the form of a father writing a letter to his son describing idyllic life in Homs, Syria, before the conflict and then the nightmare it became after.
Sorry my dudes, gotta keeps it real!
Dan Williams’ painted art is lovely and evocative but that’s about the only real standout aspect of Sea Prayer.

"But that life, that time, seems like a dream now.”Hosseini, an international literary sensation with over 55 million books sold, uses this book to mark the one year anniversary of the death of the 3-year Syrian boy whose body washed up on the shores of Turkey, and to also dedicate it to “the thousands of refugees who have perished at sea fleeing war and persecution."A short, all-ages picture book, it is the story of a father and his son who, facing “the sky spitting bombs,” become refugees, ready to leave on a boat.
We are days away from welcoming our second grandchild into this world and as grandparents we want the very best for him, healthy, safe and happy and in New Zealand he will have that.But this book shows in places arround the world where there is war and upheavle that not all babies and children will have a safe free upbringing.
This story is heart breaking Children growing up around war and death.
Children are our future and we need to do so much more to keep them all safe.
The gravity of the subject outweighs the slightness of this book; kudos to Hosseini for writing this even if it's a short war story.A subtle yet searing voice that captures the entire refugee culture in the form of a letter written by a father to his dear son.Those watercolor illustrations beautifully add hues to the blues.Worth spending 2-3 minutes of your life!PS: Obviously, it'd have been more amazing if it'd have been longer.
"And I said to you, Hold my hand.Nothing bad will happen."Khaled Hosseini was inspired to write the short story Sea Prayer after Alan Kurdi, the three year old Syrian Refugee drowned trying to reach safety.
In the year after Alan's death 4176 others went missing or have died attempting similar journeys.The author proceeds from this book will be donated to the UN Refugee Agency and The Khaled Hosseini Foundation.
For that reason I really wanted to purchase my own copy of this book.This book is the story of a father talking to his son before attempting to cross the ocean in a boat in the search for safety.
It’s not bad, but it seems a bit dark for a children’s book. The watercolor illustrations didn’t really do much for me. It’s a fathers heartfelt worries and that is beautiful and profound. A beautiful way to honor those lost though.
This is a slim, beautifully illustrated book that is essentially a refugee father’s heartfelt prayer for his young son as they are about to embark on a perilous sea passage in search of a new home. Spare but powerful.Kudos to Dan Williams on the gorgeous watercolor illustrations.
