https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18635113-elizabeth-is-missing
So, I think that taking out a star from the rating is enough to show my "feeling" that this could be better as a short story regardless that it's still a narrow novel.If you decide to read it, you won't regret it...
If I'd read that novel "Elizabeth is Missing" that you are talking about, I would remember it, right?
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/WARNING: I’M GOING TO SPOIL SOME OF THIS ONE, SO READ AT YOUR OWN RISKI finished Elizabeth Is Missing all the way back in September, but never wrote a review. Those of you who know me are already aware that I’m always behind when it comes to posting reviews, but this one fell off the radar for a different reason . . . A reason I like to call the “meh factor.”  ^^^^selfie of my reaction upon finishing this book^^^^However, after having
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/WARNING: I’M GOING TO SPOIL SOME OF THIS ONE, SO READ AT YOUR OWN RISKI finished Elizabeth Is Missing all the way back in September, but never wrote a review.
Wasting TONS of pages and doing the ol’ wibbly-wobbly timey-wimey back and forth through different era narration in order to cover both Elizabeth and Sukey’s disappearances doesn’t work when half the book is wasted on such an obvious “mystery.” I also figured out the deal with Sukey super-early as well (but I read a lot of mystery/thrillers so this happens on the regular for me and might not for you).
Maude is 82 yrs.old and no longer lives solely in the present day.
Her memories of the past and the disappearance of her sister Sukey have become confused with the disappearance of her friend in the present day, Elizabeth.
Suffering from dementia, her days have become a jumble of things, images and thoughts that don't seem to fit.
At times humorous, at times poignant, one cannot help feeling so very sorry for Maude, as a character she is very likable.
Her present is not all there and even her past becomes hard to hold on to, so she relies more and more on her pocket full of sticky notes.
A 70 year old unsolved mystery lies at the heart of 'Elizabeth Is Missing'.
It's not your conventional crime novel, but it certainly is compelling.
The main protagonist is an 82 year old lady suffering from dementia.
The way the author has dealt with the subject of dementia is quite remarkable.
She's captured brilliantly the anxiety, the confusion, and the fear associated with it, so much so, that it's hard to believe she's not yet thirty herself!
It's beautifully written, hilarious at times, heartbreakingly sad at others, and it maintains its suspense right the way through.
Emma Healey is a wise, intelligent and perceptive writer, and this is a really good debut novel.
I loved this!Funny and sad. So different from that sort of perspective. Really well done. Loved Maud. I knew there would be a connection between the 2 time line stories and I really liked the ending.
I feel lost, much like Maud did in this book.There's two stories going on here...
Maud an 82 year old woman who has dementia and then young Maud, who is desperately searching for her sister who has just vanished.
I worked with my grandmother for a full year before she passed this January and she acted a lot like Maud.
The young Maud is close to her sister and then one day Sukey or Susan vanishes.
Elizabeth Is Missing ostensibly recounts how Maud Horsham, a tenacious 80-plus-year-old Englishwoman battling dementia, tries to investigate the abrupt disappearance of her longtime best friend, Elizabeth Markham.
Recognizing her slipping mind, Maud scrupulously jots down her every discovery and clue on slips of paper she squirrels away in her purse.Although her daughter Helen, granddaughter Katie, caregiver Carla, and just about everyone else presumes that Maud is merely indulging a senile obsession, Maud knows that something has gone terribly wrong — no matter what Peter, Elizabeth’s tightfisted, unpleasant, foul-mouthed son, tells the world.
Investigating one disappearance reopens that earlier case in Elizabeth’s mind, which she re-examines in a fresh light.
Elizabeth is missing was an emotional story about an elderly lady who is living with dementia.I liked the story as I found it extremely effective at highlighting how difficult the illness is on family members; I found the character of Helen so real in this story and I am sure there are daughters and sisters and family out there reading this book and can identity with the character of Helen as she tries to look after and understand the world in which her mother finds herself struck in.  Interesti
Elizabeth is missing was an emotional story about an elderly lady who is living with dementia.I liked the story as I found it extremely effective at highlighting how difficult the illness is on family members; I found the character of Helen so real in this story and I am sure there are daughters and sisters and family out there reading this book and can identity with the character of Helen as she tries to look after and understand the world in which her mother finds herself struck in.
Did I read the same book as other reviewers?!?!?! This book was horrible, annoying, repetitive and wayyyyyy too drawn out. I love a good mystery and found myself not even caring what happens to Elizabeth, or Sukey, or ANY character in this book, because this book was just boring. I read the whole thing waiting for the aha-moment that just never came. Thought this book told from the view point of an elderly women with dementia would be unique, but I just found it frustrating.
Emma Healey did an extraordinary job of putting me into the mind of 82-year old Maud who was suffering from Alzheimer's disease.
From paragraph to paragraph, you never knew if you would be in Maud's past where her older sister, Sukey, disappeared or in her present trying to find her close friend, Elizabeth, who she believes to be missing.
Yes, I wanted to know what happened to Elizabeth and Sukey, but I got so involved in Maud's thinking process that I felt like I was reading three novels at once."Elizabeth is Missing" had a very interesting storyline which kept me engaged throughout, but I couldn't help wish I had read this book before I watched this disease take a close friend and my beloved aunt away from me.
The author has woven the story in a very beautiful way by giving two angles to the plot, one is the mystery with the right elements of twists and turns and the other is the old age, memory-loss.
We can feel her frustration and pain and the author gives us a thorough insight into the life of an old woman suffering from dementia and how she manages to unravel a mystery surrounding her best friend and her sister.It’s one of the most anticipated novels of this year, undoubtedly the best and the most intense one.
The character is supposed to be unforgettable but I'm pretty sure I will have forgotten all about this book very soon.) Equally, the fact that Maud is suffering from memory loss and mental confusion can be used to explain away a plethora of issues with the story, from muddled parts of the narrative and endlessly repeated phrases ('I can't think'), to the unbelievable neatness of the ending.
Given the fact that Healey is a young debut author who hadn't been published at all prior to this book, it's amazing how effortless these parts of the narrative feel, and I found the Sukey plotline much more gripping than the Elizabeth one.
The book shows credibly how losing a hold over continuity of the present necessarily leads to strengthening of an inner world and enforcing its persistence to act out regardless of everyday barriers that slow down a healthy person: fears, others, physical obstacles.
The gap between inner and outer, past and present, is sometimes lost in the narrative, but the author reinstates them with the help of a mystery, which gives the protagonist some focus and unity.
What would otherwise remain dispersed and hidden from the outer world, is in this way made sensible and given a logic of its own.As in The Curious Incident as well, it seems that only a peculiar state of mind is not itself enough to make the story interesting.
It is written with such confidence and eloquence, but then Healey did study creative writing.The story centers around Maud, an 81 year-old woman descending ever deeper into dementia.
The book is told both from Maud's present and her past, and as the story moves along, the line between these times becomes ever more blurry, disintegrating slowly as Maud grows more confused.
While Maud is the kind of character you want to hug and make a nice cup of tea, she isn't portrayed as this vision of perfection.
Maud's story emphasized the fact that old age is deeply deserving of respect.
Maud had a kind daughter and granddaughter, who were overwhelmed, but helpful, and seemed quite realistic.
So we watch the old lady's efforts to bring back her friend, whilst seeing how she gradually loses her memory, all of her current life, making her past more real than the present.
The story of her sister's disappearance is gradually uncovered as she looks for her missing friend, and the ending is satisfying and meaningful.
In a way, it's a psychological story which makes you relate to the old and suffering, as well as a passive sort of suspense story where you have to keep guessing at what happened to her sister 70 years ago.
"I feel as though I'm failing to catch something precious." This is a line taken out of context from the stunning debut Elizabeth Is Missing.
Ultimately this is how I feel, that the few words I can say will fail to catch its essence.
Told in alternating time frames, it is the story of an elderly woman suffering many losses including friends, family, youth and memory.
As a woman over sixty it portrays possibilities of aging that are hard to contemplate and read.
It is a story that is easy to spoil so you must read it and interpret it yourself.
I loved this book. Unsettling, moving, and tender....I couldn't put it down.
I finished this over a week ago and still am a bit ambivalent about it.
That in itself is terrifying, (as I look at all the reminders to myself tacked to the desk on a sticky note!) The author did a wonderful job of conveying that teetering on the edge feeling that so many elderly must have.
That said, I felt that this story just went on, and on, and on.
Which is what Maude must have felt.
I was anxious to get to a resolution.....about Elizabeth as well as the disappearance of Maude's sister so many years ago.
If this novel was a debut by the author, it is definitely worth praising. An interesting story and a very intriguing narrator.
It's a slow moving realization and the saddest thing of all is Maud's inability to hold on to her train of thought long enough to enjoy some kind of peace of mind or obtain closure in any way for herself.
While I know it is so difficult to deal with a parent suffering from dementia, and I am certainly not making light of that burden, I couldn't help but feel irritation at Helen's making faces at Maud behind her back or dismissing her symptoms with the doctor or a thousand other ways she was rather unkind to her mother.
I’m tired of the sympathetic smiles and the little pats people give you when you get things confused, and I’m bloody fed up with everyone deferring to Helen rather than listening to what I have to say.Elizabeth Is Missing is one of the weirdest books I've ever read.
Even though I did enjoy the plot of this novel, and how past and present blended together, my favorite thing about it would be the writing style.
Since I've read a few of negative reviews for this book, I can see how the writing style can annoy a person, but to me, it made the book even more unique and better.
Lovely book! And of course.... sad.
This is one book I was really looking forward to reading.
So when it arrived I picked it up right away to start reading.
It kind of did mess with my mind but the problem was that I found most of the characters lacking personalities.
Another thing that I did find distracting was the many different characters introduced though out the story with hardly any background as to what part they played in the whole story.
The last third of the book is where the whole story comes together and the mystery surrounding what happened is revealed.
Maud's present experiences are twisted with memories of her sister Sukey's disappearance decades before, and she often cannot tell whether she's living twelve-year-old Maud's story or her future.If you've ever struggled to comprehend what having dementia must be like, surely Elizabeth is Missing is one of the most vivid ways of experiencing it for yourself.
It'll leave you frustrated on behalf of Maud and a little angry at the way people with dementia are treated, yet you'll find yourself understanding it at the same time.
Because dementia is one of those things that both fascinates and terrifies me, I adored the present story ("Elizabeth is missing") but occasionally wanted to push past her sister Sukey's.
Talk about an unreliable narrator...When we first meet Maud- the older woman seems kind and a little scattered.
She flashes back between the past- when her sister, Sukey went missing and present day.
Her friend Elizabeth is missing and she can't quite figure out what to do.
Everyone she tells struggles to believe her and usually by the time she gets someplace, she quickly forgets why she is there.
Maud struggles with the onset of dementia.
It was a quick book with a somewhat satisfying ending- even though you know there will never be a happy ending for Maud herself as she battles this disease.
Ναι, αυτό το βιβλίο μου πήρε κάτι μήνες να το ολοκληρώσω γιατί, εχμ, απλά σταμάτησα να διαβάζω, αλλά κοιτάξτε: Ήταν καλό.Η Χάρτινη Μνήμη είναι ουσιαστικά ένα αστυνομικό μυθιστόρημα.
Από την άλλη, ο "χαλασμένος" κόσμος της Μοντ είναι ένα εξαιρετικό επίτευγμα για ντεμπούτο και σίγουρα χάρηκα που τον εξερεύνησα.Με ετούτο το βιβλίο εγκαινιάζω επίσημα και τη χρήση μισών αστεριών στο Goodreads μου, αφού δεν τα δίνουν αυτοί θα τα βάλω μόνος μου.
When the past and the present seemingly come together until her identity slowly dissolves?Set in England, "Elizabeth Is Missing" is that story, and as it unfolds in the first person narrative of Maud, the aging mother and grandmother, we are soon catapulted into her interior world, almost as if the losses are ours.Most poignant of all is the terror and fear that Maud feels when she begins obsessively searching for her friend Elizabeth whom she is certain has been taken or spirited away.
As Maud made the journey by herself and alone to her friend Elizabeth’s house – she KNEW she was missing, why would no one listen to her – she struggled to overcome her feelings of confusion; the only concrete thought in her mind was that Elizabeth needed her help.
But the house was empty; Elizabeth was nowhere to be seen…I found this book a struggle to read – the confusion and despair that Maud suffered, the seemingly callous attitude of her daughter and carer toward Maud’s fears and obsession – I felt frustrated by their inability to see that Maud needed to be placed in care.
She's been to her house (several times) and she's not there, she told her daughter Helen (many times), she's phoned Elizabeth's son Peter (several times) and even been to the police (several times) but no one will listen.
Will Maud find Elizabeth and will she ever find out what happened to Sukey?This is a very good debut novel.
Inside Maud's confused brain is not a pretty place to be and we can feel her frustration as she searches for language and memories of what has happened to her friend and her sister.
Elizabeth is Missing is told from the perspective of Maud, an 82-year-old woman who suffers from Alzheimer.
After she is made to move in with her daughter she can’t adjust to the new place and believes her daughter and granddaughter to be strangers most of the time.The reader slowly finds out more about what happened to Elizabeth and Sukey.
This thought occupies her mind until the very end when all mysteries have been solved – something Maud doesn’t remember anymore.The book is written is a very light way that often makes you want to laugh but also plucks your heartstrings.
