https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1375114.At_Dawn_We_Slept
If you've heard of Yamamoto, it's probably because of his famous exclamation, following Pearl Harbor, that Japan had awoken "a sleeping giant, and filled him with a terrible resolve." Interestingly, though, despite whatever misgivings Yamamoto had, Prange shows him as a man who really believed in the attack.
The failure of the Pearl Harbor commanders - Kimmel and General Walter Short - was to conceive of a carrier attack and make adequate preparations.
S. failed to anticipate their actions and protect Pearl Harbor from a likely attack.
Of course, I’ve lived my entire life knowing much about the Pearl Harbor attack.
The Japanese gathered mounds of information about Pearl Harbor merely by having one of their agents drive around the area and take notes.
The Japanese originally estimated that the Pearl Harbor attack would cost them one third of their task force because they anticipated that the U.
Ambassador Nomura had no knowledge of the planning of Pearl Harbor.
As the description indicates, this is an exhaustive account of the Pearl Harbor attack. Much attention is paid to the issue of culpability as regards both the US naval and army commands as well as the administration of President Roosevelt itself. Prange argues against the Beard Thesis and exonerates FDR.
He pulls together the whole story every every point of view.
I got three big points from this book.
The thinking was to fight Japan we have to cross an ocean.
To fight Germany we have a base in England.
If we concentrate on Japan first we might lose our base of England.
3] A planned third wave was canceled.
It was going to bomb the sub pens and fuel storage.
Nagumo canceled this wave.
The fuel dumps would have burned for a month and forced the US fleet to re-locate to San Diego.
A very thorough telling of the steps Japan took to launch the Pearl Harbor attack. I well-told history, but often repetitive. It was difficult to keep straight all the characters. Still, a good read and very informative, particularly if you don't have much knowledge of the Pacific theater during WWII.
Many many actors from both Japanese and US sides are engaged, which can be daunting though unnecessary to worry about keeping track of each.
"Pearl Harbor demonstrated one enduring lesson: The unexpected can happen and often does."Page 279: "The navy minister was a full admiral on active duty...
Thus, the Japanese Navy, like the Army (General Tojo had been made the new premier by Hirohito on 17 Oct 1941), did not consider itself answerable to the civil government.
This gave the Navy a large slice of uncontrolled power and helped build up the psychology, prevalent in both armed services, that the country existed to support the military, rather than vice versa...
An ambitious, academic work on the causes, reasons, outcomes and aftermaths of the attack on Pearl Harbor.
Its probably one of the most well known events of WWII, but there was a lot that I never knew.
In the book relatively little time is spent on the actual attak itself and the last big section deals with the aftermath, mostly around the many hearings and investigations that were undertaken to assign blame.
To be honest, it was here that I tapped out and put the book down and decided to call it finished.

if you ever think you might want to be a management mentor, make sure you read this incredible treatise on the debacles leading up to Dec 7, 1947. you can learn more about how not to run a boat reading this book than any other single book.Prange's scholarship is unequaled. His writing is easy and brilliant, and his depth of understanding of the events leading to the attack on Pearl Harbor, from both sides of the Atlantic, paint as clear a picture of that day as anyone possibly could. truly a masterpiece.
Good book, but I would have to agree it is exhaustive in detail as the author seems to get slightly bogged down in the minutiae of the event. After reading this book I felt I could have written a Phd thesis on Pearl Harbor. It was very informative.
Interesting but gets bogged down in details that aren't important
The American military situation in Hawaii, and the details of the attack, which destroyed or heavily damaged a dozen and a half of American ships (including eight battleships), destroyed over 150 aircraft and led to the deaths of 2,403 Americans in a little more than two hours that Sunday morning in 1941 are among the most interesting sections of the book.There is always the "other story" behind every Pearl Harbor history.
Some of this questioning was from natural reactions surrounding the pre-war generally accepted public opinions about the inability of the Japanese to pose a serious threat to the American military, especially a Navy as powerful as we had assigned to Hawaii.
It was during that time that he interviewed many of the surviving Japanese officers who helped plan or who participated in the attack on Pearl Harbor.
The weakness of the book is that the American side isn't that compelling and because he describes the actions that Americans were taking before the attack and then describes the testimony of the participants in the various investigations, there is a lot of repetition.
I wish whoever edited the book, since this was prepared for publication after Prange's death, would have done a better job with internal note.
A painstaking and thorough 'labour of love' started by G.W.Prange and completed by two of his former pupils after his death.Although I am interested in WW2, and Japan past and present I found it quite a dry read even for a non-fiction book.In his book, almost immediately, Prange deals with that 'hoary old chestnut', the conspiracy theory that the American President F.D. Roosevelt allowed the Pearl Harbor disaster to happen in order to bring America into the war.I would like to read it again at a more leisurely pace and what would be interesting as a linguistics graduate would be; could I be able to pick up where his former students Dr. Donald.
Dillon USAF (Ret.) started the completion of his book?A further personal interest: was Lt. Commander Alwin D.
Kramer related to the Kramer's I use to know in Kenya?
Extremely well-documented book that details the events leading to the Japanese sneak attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941.
This attack thrust the United States into World War II.The book presents details from both the Japanese and US perspectives, drawing no conclusions and laying no blame.
I found it fascinating at times and tedious at others.
The sheer volume of detail can overwhelm the reader.
But when the book covered well-documented moments in history, it drew me in so that I almost felt I was there watching that terrible day.I'd recommend this book to anyone who has a strong interest in the history of WWII.
I want to give this book more stars, because they worked very diligently and as unbiasedly as possible. The writing still manages to show some poeticism and personality sometimes. Turns out, though, I didn’t need a book this thorough; it gets incredibly repetitive. No stone is left unturned, and I got bored with seeing the same old dirt underneath. I would enjoy a book that covers all the topics enclosed herein with a little less detail. There was no need to beat the dead horse this hard.
Wow! Probably the best researched book I have ever read. I am amazed at the amount of information in this book. It takes on the subject from all different points of view, the Navy, the Army, the politicians, and the Japanese. This book is a project. It is about 800 pages of dense information. I learned so much. I think it is a fair evaluation of the mistakes made by all the important players.
An exceptionally well researched history of the attack on Pearl Harbor, including the the events and policies in America and Japan leading up to the attack, as well as the aftermath and the subsequent career outcomes of the commanders involved on both sides. The account is so detailed that it can become laborious. A good read for those who really want to understand the history behind the conflict, but not for the faint of heart.
If you want to understand the American entrance into WWII, then this is a critical work. Prange, and the researchers who carried on his work after his death, seem to leave no stone unturned in the desire to understand every aspect of Pearl Harbor by revealing the inner workings of the event both militarily and politically. A fascinating study of how bureaucracy and hubris combine with stunning results.
I read this in high school after receiving it as a Christmas gift, perhaps 1982? A lot of details, but remind yourself that this 837 page behemoth was downsized from a 3,500 page manuscript. I have read it twice since and should do so again soon.I can't imagine a better book on the subject unless we ever get some files released that reveal conspiracy theory type info.
How do people find the time to write so much about the same topic? Prange wrote at least three books, of which this is the largest, on Pearl Harbor. If he was trying to write an extensive narrative, this is the closest he's gotten so far.
Fantastic book in terms of it's depth. Uncovers alot about the Hawaii operation. However, whole chapters could be deleted as they essentially repeat the same information in a new layout, or offer very little to the overall picture of the Hawaii Operation.
Interesting, well researched. Many more details than I ever knew. Also, the story and characters on both sides.
Waaaaaay too much detail. I don't care how broad a forehead a general had or how piercing his eyes were.
Required reading If you are interested in WWII, America's mindset and the Pacific theater in general, this is a must. Clearly written and well paced.
In the end, the book illustrates the narrow-minded futility of politics in creating scapegoats for what's perceived to be a failure to predict ingenuity on the part of a race or people perceived to be incapable of anything so audacious.John Ford, the director of my favorite film of all time ('The Searchers'), directed a propaganda film in 1943 based on the Pearl Harbor attack that is so over-the-top and ridiculous that it stands as the ultimate account of what was at the time the viewpoint of the entire country toward Japan.
A very detailed account of the attack on Pearl Harbor. This is only the second book I have read on the subject but I can't imagine one more complete than this. Covers both the American and Japanese side. A terrific if somewhat daunting read.
exhaustive study of the events surrounding the Pearl Harbor attack. well researched but bogs down a little describing the post attack events.
Some interesting details about the attack on Pearl Harbor and the state of affairs and assumptions made before the attack. But this book is likely best suited for history buffs versus casual readers. Sections of it are repetitive and it seems more like a recitation of numerous details than a coherent narrative.
His research is impeccable, primary source and interview driven and presented in an unbiased and engaging manner.This book is incredibly detailed, but well worth the read.
For someone interested in WW II history, the strengths and limits of intelligence gathering and the use of that intelligence and an even-handed examination of the responsibilities of military officers and civilian authorities, this book is invaluable.
I found it the author's frequent and necessary efforts to put the actions detailed into the perspectives of the time incredibly valuable.A connection with modern thinking is as close by a 9/11.
