https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104297.Abraham_Lincoln_s_World
We love the "World of..." series by Genevieve Foster.
Covering so much more than just Lincoln, Foster talks about the people and events that shaped Lincoln's time.
Part I examines the world when Lincoln entered it, discussing events in Europe, North & South America that shaped the course of history and laid the foundation for Part 2.
Foster gives us vignettes of his personal and professional successes and trials as well as a tour of events around the world that both connect with the previous sections and foreshadow the upcoming time periods.
One of the best world history books for the middle grades. Foster's books weave the events of one famous person's life with what was happening around the world. Wonderfully written!!
Great book about Abraham Lincoln (and what was going on in the world around him during his life). And ... not really much to say about this. My mom read it to me and my brothers for school. :)
Many people would quickly answer, “Abraham Lincoln.” This 1945 Newbery Honor Title, originally published in 1944, is not just a biography of Lincoln, but an example of author Genevieve Foster’s masterful display of “horizontal history” by telling the story of world events in the geo-political sphere, while giving as much importance to advances in science, medicine, music, literature, and exploration, all centered around the life of a specific individual.
Other similar books by the same author include Augustus Caesar’s World: A Story of Ideas and Events from B.C. 44 to 14 A.D.
I only read the first little bit of this book. I did find it interesting. But got bored after just a short time and trying to keep up with all the details, people and places.
I will give one example (of many) completely false statements by the author.For example, the author states that the US Civil war was the deadliest war in the history of the world (not just the United States), up to that point.
False.
About 800,000 people died in that, and the Taiping Rebellion (that was also mentioned in this book) just a few decades before saw at least 20 million people die, possibly up to 100 million.
Even the Napoleonic Wars, much more widely known, had 3-5 million people die.Also, this book sure does take a while to get through.
This book struck me as interesting because it’s not as much about Abraham Lincoln as it is about the things going around him throughout his life.
I would very likely use this book in a history class, but I doubt I would use the whole thing.
I think I’d like to have each child read a different section of the book and have them report about it to the class.
That way a good amount of the book has been read, hence a good amount of that history has been read, and also shared with the class.
Those who choose the Newbery awards seem determined to teach me some history!
After reading George Washington's World, I didn't want to jump right into this one.
But even after waiting a while, this wasn't a book I wanted to sit down and read all at once.
I enjoyed taking my time with it and reading just a few pages at a time.
Consequently, this took me a long time to finish.
This is a nice overview of the history of the world during Abraham Lincoln's lifetime.
I really enjoyed this volume of the World of...
I don't know if it is just an interesting period of time or its the legacy of growing up in Illinois, where Abe Lincoln is our patron saint.
Like the other books, it takes the life of an influential man--in this case Abraham Lincoln--and weaves in the current events of the world.
This one also carries on the tradition of being enjoyable to read and offering a nice all around view of world history.
Of course, I still have to slog through the era between Jackson and Lincoln....
So, Genevieve Foster wrote engagingly, but I just can't get past halfway in the history book.
I'm getting a little lost as we cover the entire world a bit at a time, as the structure is chronological (how many revolutions did France have over how many years, anyway?!).
And there's a bit too much 'glorious democracy' and 'for God and country' and even 'his bright eyes and handsome mouth' kinds of boosterism.
Gotta move along - can get more & better history elsewhere I'm sure.Otoh, for the intended audience at the time, I bet it was good.
I enjoyed this book much more than others by Foster (Birthday's of Freedom and George Washington). She narrates world history in 2-3 page snippets during the years spanning Abraham Lincoln's life. This was much better written than anything I remember reading in grade school history. There is a bit of subtle commentary in the history - generally regarding the character of some historical figures. There is also some dry humor in the telling.
Sebuah buku terjemahan dari buku dalam Bahasa Inggris, "Abraham Lincoln's World". Berkisah soal kehidupan Mr.Lincoln dari dia lahir sampai diangkat menjadi presiden Amerika Serikat, berikut peristiwa-peristiwa besar yang terjadi disekitarnya. Dilengkapi dengan gambar komik ala terbitan penerbit lawas Indonesia, Djambatan. Dan bahasa terjemahannya pun masih menggunakan Bahasa Indonesia tahun 1950-an :)
This is a survey of world happenings during the lifetime of Abraham Lincoln. You sometimes zip across the globe from one story to the next, but the author (Genevieve Foster, and in our edition Joanna Foster) did a good job of weaving it together. It is heavy on the US history side, but there are also stories of the British Isles, India, China, Japan, Europe (can't leave out the Napoleons and those Prussians!), South America, and Africa, and more.
A curious concept for a book and many interesting vignettes, but also many factual errors and flights of fancy in trying to connect people and places around the world for this book to be considered a reliable historical source. Moreover, much of Lincoln's life and other key historical events are glossed over, while there is too much emphasis on Napoleon's obsession for war and European royalty.
sebenarnya ceritanya menarik, tentang Lincoln ini, tapi yang menyulitkan adalah ejaannya yang sudah lama. Jadi, saat menikmati buku pun jadi harus ada pengulangan membaca satu dua kalimat lagi. Overall, history ini menarik karena dikemas dengan penambahan gambar jadi tidak membosankan sekali...
This book makes you realize how stupid people were back then always wanting power but this book will make you go oh that guy i have read about so read this book and then write what you think
Fantastic account of what was going on in the rest of the world during the lifetime of Abraham Lincoln.
Reading with Adeline
What was going on from 1809-1865. Encyclopedia-ish format.See: George Washington's World
584ab262-7a2d-4d5a-9bbe-ed11c3a9b1ec
While it's not my favorite time period, there were still some interesting parts and all in all it's a good history book.
I like how the author covers so much in quick little interesting bits that add up to quite a lot of world knowledge.
