https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/625605.The_Alliance
Eric Lloyd and his family have survived a nuclear holocaust, along with several other members of their small village.
Then the invaders come--uniformed men in trucks who scoop them all up and take them to become members of The Alliance: a group of cities up to the north that pride themselves on being free from violence and crime--even from the emotions that cause negative things to happen.
Only the Guardians, a small group who police the cities, are free from implantation.As potentially a future Guardian, Eric has managed to escape implantation for the time being.
I really want to love Gerald Lund's writing, but I just don't.
This book reads like a clean Vin Diesel movie.
I read it because a friend passed it to me and told me I would love it.
And then she kept asking me every time I saw her if I had read it or not.
There is nothing remotely literary about this book.
The quality was more like a vanity press than Bookcraft (Desert Book).
All that said, there are people who will love this book.
The most interesting thing of all to me ,is that it was written by Gerald Lund in 1983.I hope we are far away from the 'end' of government as we know it.
I have to admit that I was a little disappointed in the ending-frankly, I expected a little bit more.Perhaps after reading THE WORK AND THE GLORY series and THE FIRE AND THE COVENANT, I was hopingfor a less tidy wrap up!Anyway, if you like Gerald Lund and his style of writing-you will like this book.
Second time I've read this book.
I needed an uplifting overthrow-the big-bad-control-freak-gov't book after reading Mocking Jay. A work less known by Gerald Lund it is definately a glory!!
Set in a futuristic post-nuclear WWIII a technology advanced civilization forces survivors to undergo a surgical implantation of a device that uses pain signals to force a person to submit to being good.
Sounds great right, a city where there is no bad behavior, except the people incontrol are not implanted and are free to manipulate the system and basically keep the people in bondage.
But one village decides to put up a fight!!!
This book is filled with self-sacrificing ideals; Cliff's valiant and unrelenting stand will now stand alongside my mental picture of Polycarp, no small feat for a fictional character.This contains some powerful storyline about the true battle (80) over agency.
One may make the case for symbolic confusion about freedom and agency as one character gradually withdraws from the life she had formerly known (163, 167-168, 194, 197), thinking at first that her liberation was captivity.
As Augustine wrote in his essay on freedom of the will, "No one can lose truth and wisdom against his will, because no one can be physically separated from them.
Morals: There is no magic (something that I detest with a passion), there is not rude or crass language, there is a romance but no sexual innuendo, and though there is action it's written well so there is little or no violence.
When the invitation is refused Eric's entire community is abducted and taken to the glittering city if Shalev where, though an implanted computer chip and a mechanical wristwatch, there is no violence, no anger, no unkindness, and no choice in the matter.
Eric, who escapes the brain implantation, battles against the evil system and wicked leaders, determined to return the gift of agency to his family and the people of Shalev.
I would recommend this book to anyone who loves futuristic utopia type books, and if you are looking for a good clean book this would be a great book to read.
My favorite quote in the whole book is this "A really inventive mind can bring about the most effective tyranny in the history of the world." I think this quote is saying that smart people can give great ideas, but if there motives are wrong it could destroy people.
For those of you looking for another great book to read I would choose this one.
(The club unofficially ended when I was the only person to finish the book.
Lund is an active member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons) and so am I.
In fact Latter-day Saints believe that before we were born Satan tried to take that freedom of choice away from us by forcing everybody to always choose the right.
Our Father in Heaven rejected Satan's plan in favor of us making mistakes but learning and progressing.
Anyways I wasn't planning on explaining doctrine, but overall I liked how Lund handled the issue of free choice vs.
"The Alliance" is an engaging read. It has developed characters, vivid scenes, fast pacing and well-crafted backdrops. The story deals with the moral issue of coercion versus freedom. The dialogue can be cloying at times, but then, sappy-sweet characters are refreshing compared to the cliche of cold, embittered characters that typically populate sci-fi books. It's not hard to read and children as young as 11 or so can enjoy it. Plus, it has a cool cover.
WOW!!! WOW!!! WOW!!! WOW!!! AND DOUBLE WOW!!! This book is absolutely amazing!!!!!!! Definately one of my all time favorites. It's written by Gerald Lund author of The Work and the Glory. It's great. It's in the future and a community that's chipped in so they can only do perfect things as in no crime, no hatred no ect. or they get shocked. It's overcoming this awful lifestile and gaining free agency. AWESOME BOOK!!!!!!
Enjoyed this dystopian book written over 3 decades ago...still great! The topics of freedom, behavior conditioning, and government control are all central in this book. The main character was easily likeable and I was rooting for him the whole time. The last third was very action-packed and exciting and then ended a bit abruptly for me.
I was excited for this one, but what a clunker. I love sci-fi/end of days books and this one had a great premise. Lund's hokey dialogue and never-ending back and forth between characters finally did me in. I'll read "1984" to get the bad taste of "The Alliance" out of my mouth.
This is personally one of my favorite books. I find this better than any of the controlling government books. Very well written, and a great read if you are wanting to read a book. This book keeps you on edge the whole time.
I overall really enjoyed the book and I'm glad i read it! One of the big problems i had with it though is With distopias you have so much world building and character development and i think trying to cram that all into one book made it a little bit overwhelming.
I reread this book for about the 20th time. I love it. It is a super fun read and I would totally recommend it.
I loved this book. One act of courage changes everything!!
I'm not usually one to jump into science fiction, but this one was really really good!!
this is about as good as a book can get, I love it and will read it again and again. its really truly a great book.
It was amazing and very cleverly written!
What follows is Eric's struggle to escape from Shalev, rescuing his family and other freedom-loving people who have been oppressed by the Alliance's tyrannical mental rule for nearly two decades.This book came highly recommended by a friend, and I do like to take recommendations now and then, so I picked it up at the library.
(I also tried to like it because Gerald Lund is in some capacity a family acquaintance, and I had never read any of his books, fiction or otherwise.) Umm...
This is the first book that I ever read that I think would actually be classified as a distopian plot.
I'm pretty sure I liked it as much as an adult as I did as a child.I like everything about this book.
I like the way they are able to make what they used to have or get along without the things they used to have.
I like the way she has kind of a child like faith about things.
This is one of those books that I just want to jump into the plot and find out the answers to my questions.
“The Alliance” By Gerald N. LundBook Review #8329 pages The Alliance by Gerald N. Lund is extremely well written with many very interesting characters. The characters are different from other books I’ve read mostly because their world is very different then ours. The main character, Eric Lloyd, fights very hard for what he believes in. It takes a lot of courage to be different and stand out, and those are signs of a true hero, which Eric is. Eric believes that freedom is very important, and trie
The characters are different from other books I’ve read mostly because their world is very different then ours.
The main character, Eric Lloyd, fights very hard for what he believes in.
Eric believes that freedom is very important, and tries to help the people of the alliance.
Eric Lloyd lives with his family, and only a few other people.
Because he is highly respected by the people, he is able to run the beautiful village smoothly.
“The valley presented a dazzling array of color and beauty.” He lives in a very peaceful village that is basically a Utopia for them at the beginning of the book.
If you like science fiction, then you HAVE to read this book.
Eric Lloyd is lucky that his father decided to build “the valley,” a village that is located in what we know as Star Valley, Wyoming.
Little does Eric know his life will never be the same again.
Each member of the society must be implanted with a chip that sends electric shocks whenever a bad thought comes to an individual.
As a potential Guardian, Eric has the opportunity to escape being implanted.
This book had an interesting subject, but sometimes it moved slowly. Especially at the beginning, the main character resorted to violence more than I expected, considering the author.Some of the portrayals of women belie this book's 1980's origin, but there are strong women nonetheless.
A solid dystopian novel. I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys F451, 1984, etc. It feels a little dated with the names, pacing, and style, but I've always loved a good Gerald N. Lund read and this was a solid one for sure.
My 14 year old and my 11 year old liked this book ok, but it took me 3 months to get through it myself. It was your typical dystopian adventure story with one dimensional characters and predictable story line. I just didn't enjoy it much.
Pretty good book. It took me a bit to get into it but once I did, I was fairly riveted. Interesting plot and believable characters that I grew close to. I wouldn't call it one of Gerald Lund's best books but it was enjoyable nonetheless.
Great story. At the end good triumphs.
This book was amazing! The story gets better and better the more you read and I wish it didn't end.
I did not like this book at all! Too much weirdness.
