https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112520.Rama_II
It's a very lean, tight piece of what I'd consider "Classical hard sci-fi" by which I mean there's a focus on the science, and an emphasis of plot over character.This sequel was written more than 15 years later in collaboration with a different author: Gentry Lee. From what I've gathered, I think it's safe to say that Clarke provided some ideas for this sequel, while Lee is the one who actually wrote the book.What went wrong:Ultimately, everything that made me dislike this book stems from the fact that it’s a sequel to Rendezvous with Rama.
"Now that I am long in years, perhaps I can improve upon it." Replied the second man, with some enthusiasm: "Indeed!
the characterization in the first book was warm and pleasingly straightforward; this novel replaces that with wearying dime store Freudianism and, most unpleasantly, some questionable 'liberalism' around race and gender that comes across as both dated and condescending.
I just wish I had met those characters in a different novel because they certainly do not belong in this one.my advice: stick with the highly enjoyable Rendezvous with Rama and don't bother with its sequel(s).
I'm about 1/5 in and this book SUCKS.
She saw a head in the sequins, the head of a large cat, its eyes gleaming and its mouth with sharp teeth just beginning to open." JESUS CHRIST.
The 'Italian journalist' (why do you need to constantly remind me she's an Italian journalist?) is like a cat getting ready to pounce on her prey.
Her sequined holiday dress looks like a cat to this other character?And the heavy-handed visit with the pope, the visit to a saint's monument, all to show how uber-religious this character is.
Clarke book buried somewhere in all this drivel?
I am obviously in the minority here but I enjoyed this novel... is it even safe to say that I enjoyed it more than the first one? Full review to come. Bought the last 2 books in the series too, even though I'm 100% certain that I will take a break from this series for a while.
The Rama I crew made sense, it was an assembly of the space programs finest, which you would expect on such an important mission, and they completed their mission with professionalism.
Well I guess it is the single most important mission in human history, that is why we sent Walter Cronkite to the moon with Neil Armstrong right?......right?-The book introduces practically nothing new from Rama I.
The good guys quietly shuttle off into deep space, not having learned much at all from the long mission, just happy to be alive.
The history of the economic crisis, description of the saint.Bad: Anything involving characters and character development.
Parts of it are really good, like the 2 chapter history of the economic crisis.
But whenever this book interacts with a human being, I want to stab my myself (apart from the guy who visits the pope, I liked that description of the saint).
It's not even as interesting as one of those cheesy romance novels.When I read the original book, I sort of thought that the characters were kind of bland and uninteresting.
Have you ever read an Asimov book for the original/exciting characters?
Though not in the same league as Rendezvous with Rama, this was quite enjoyable. I was surprised that Lee, a scientist with JPL, made this a much more character focused novel. He didn't do a bad job at it or anything but that probably wasn't what most people wanted out of a Rama sequel.
So here we have a novel that Clarke apparently created the characters for (it shows) and outlined ideas, but is actually written by some other author.
When every ounce of weight costs tens of thousands of dollars to get into space?) with no explanation of how they work, a mission ship that seems as spacious as the Enterprise (actually two equally badly thought out and terribly written mission ships), and a million other little things that make you go "WTF?"Anyway, I have a feeling that any secrets revealed about the Raman ship will be highly disappointing and most likely so stupid I'll just get really angry, so I'm debating even finishing this book.
Definitely longer than the first book, "Rama II" is also much more character-centric and person driven than the first one.
I found that the second book didn't add much to the story of Rama, but rather introduced a whole new set of characters and tried to make the reader very very interested in them.
Even if I'm still waiting for an explanation on the alien race, I couldn't give this book less than the four stars I gave the first because I still found it riveting, read it in about 6ish hours and was adamant that I absolutely hated one of the characters (which honestly, usually only happens if the character is well-written or well-constructed).
Gentry Lee took over what was an amazing hardcore science fiction novel in Rama and turned it into some crappy drama, with novice style intrigue, a bunch of ridiculous characters that having you going from indifferent to totally hating them.
I loved Rama, I loved the ideas brought up by Arthur Clarke, and I was so excited to learn more about the Ramans and their ship that the second encounter should have brought, instead I learned about a bunch of pathetic characters that have a ton of personal problems, the chicks are sluts, and the dudes are retarded.
"Worst science fiction book ever" and "Arthur C.
I can only guess that Clarke was getting senile, and Gentry Lee, while possessing impressive credentials, just must not be any kind of fiction writer at all.However it came about, this awful book is the result.
As a confirmed science fiction fan, having read hundreds of scifi books in my 57 years of life, the contest is over for the worst of them all.I hesitate to provide specifics, since it means I have to actually think about it all over again.
Sure, science-fiction requires suspension of disbelief to some degree.
Both novels deal with expeditions to mysterious alien spacecraft, fifty-kilometer-long spinning cylinders containing an entire world with plains, a sea, city-like constructions.
Consider the following:"The video monitor in the back of the seat in front of Nicole automatically turned on and reminded her that in only fifteen minutes the plane would land at the Kansai Transportation Center.
In less than a minute Nicole arranged both her train ride to Kyoto and her electric trolley passage from there to her hotel.
Forsooth!When it comes down to it, this novel amounts in quality and character pretty much to 466 pages of fan fiction.
I wanted to get into this world, not read its history texts.The few characters I actually saw right away didn't have a "save the cat" moment.
I had no reason to empathize with them, and didn't.As a result, I got maybe 75 pages into this rather massive tome before putting it down.
The artifact is what made me want to read the next book in the series - stalling so long to get to it really turned me off.I'm still vaguely interested in the concept and idea - but not enough to slog through this huge tome in order to get there.
The first book in the series, Rendezvous with Rama, was a good read and I was excited about this sequel. No no no. The first was focused on exploration and discovery and the characters were imperfect but hard-working, decent people. Rama II is poorly written, bogged down by inane machinations by cliched and unlikeable characters, and worst of all, reduces the fascinating mysteries of the first book to an increasingly ridiculous premise. Like with the three new Star Wars movies, I wish I could cleanse this from my brain and remember just the original book.
Mənim kimi böyük gözləntilər ilə oxusanız alacağınız zövq aşağı düşəcək :) Qısa məzmun: İlk Rama kosmik gəmisinin Günəş Sisteminə səyahətindən 66 il sonra (2197- ci ildə) astronomlar ikinci dəfə Rama bənzəri bir cismin sistemə girdiyini xəbər verirlər.
İlk Rama' nın gedişindən sonrakı dünya ciddi iqtisadi böhranların baş verdiyi (bunun Rama səbəbli olduğunu düşünən böyük bir kütlə də var), kosmik səyahətlərin, layihələrin dondurulduğu, bəzi yerlərdə yerli xalqların hökumət əleyhinə üsyanlarının və s.
II Rama araşdırmaları üçün ilk kitabdakı heyətdən fərqli olaraq bu dəfə 12 nəfər üzvdən ibarət (Nyuton heyəti) və iki kosmik gəmi ilə (birisi elmi- tədqiqat, digəri hərbi) yad cismin səthinə enilir.
For example, this being published in 1989, well before reality TV became the expected norm, he had the idea that the world would be watching this historical event of a small crew exploring this new Rama in real time, assuming that in the twenty third century, we would still be into that sort of thing).It was unclear to me what A.C. Clarke or Lee actually wrote here though I suspect we are mostly reading Lee's writing based on some plot ideas provided by A.C. Clarke or was it collective brainstorming, and I imagine drafts were approved by Clarke.
A worthwhile book if you enjoyed "Rendezvous with Rama".
When the mysteries do come however, they are just as amazing as in the first book, maybe even more so as the first part of the book, while boring, did a great deal to introduce the deep, multi-dimensional characters.If you've read "Rendezvous with Rama" and liked it, stick with this book and read it through to the end, you won't regret it.
If you didn't like it (heathen!) or just felt apathetic about it, Rama II will probably bore you.
The measure of a good book for me is two fold.
Is it as good now as it was when I was 12?
Do I meet people in real life and compare them back to a book's characters?
Or at least that is my measure of a good book right now.This meets both.
I could not stop reading this at every opportunity: lunch, breaks, at night.
Just as good as when I was a kid.
And then I remembered that every computer programmer I meet makes me think just a little bit of Richard Wakefield.
"Don't read this one, it's boring!" is what everyone warned me. Did I listen? No. But I should have. Kicked it after reading for about 10 months and realizing I still had 200 pages to go. No one should have to suffer like that. I'll pass on the sequels too, along with everything else Gentry Lee has written.
If you liked Rendezvous with Rama, skip this unless you're the world's biggest fan of Gentry Lee. An almost completely unrelated book, this is filled with third-grade soap opera and constant, petty digressions from Clarke's fascinating ideas.Clarke is not the world's greatest writer and the first Rama book was stilted and nerdy, but it was also ripe with enthusiasm and seriously awe-inspiring ideas. The addition of B-movie drama here doesn't deepen, humanize, or in any way improve Rama; it just cheapens it.
When this first came out I thought, oh no, not a sequel! Leave well enough alone! Well, what a treat this one was. More Rama, and even creepier than the original.
The sequel to Rendevous with Rama sees a new Raman spacecraft appearing in the solar system seventy years later, and a crew going to investigate it.
I think the most notable character might have been Francesca Sabatini, the backstabbing journalist who wants to eliminate some of her fellow crew members for...some reason?
But yeah, the characters weren't that interesting, and since they were much of the focus, it made the book more of a slog than the first.
I was also a little bothered that the colonies on other planets had apparently failed in between the two books, when the interplanetary politics were pretty interesting in Rendevzous.
I read this immediately after reading the first Rama book and possibly this quick succession flavored my enjoyment (or lack thereof) of this average space adventure, but even in isolation this book fails to deliver on most of the key components of a good science fiction novel.
I find it amazing that an author like Arthur C Clarke can produce something as wonderful as Rendezvous with Rama only to follow it up with this uninspired, uninteresting and on the whole dull narrative.
On the front of my edition there is only one quote "Clarke is the finest living writer of science fiction"- well ok so it's technically wrong Clarke being dead but it's also highly misleading as the actual author of this book is this far less renowned Gentry Lee. It is also revealing that this quote is not in praise of this particular book and yet is the only quote on the cover!This book is 90% a Mills and Boon potboilling soap-opera and 9% 1950s Flash Gordon type sci-fi.
Nothing new is revealed about the purpose of Rama; there are no interesting sci-fi ideas beyond Flash Gordon type bugaboos.
The original Rendezvous with Rama was an intelligent and thoughtful treatment about what first contact between humans and another intelligence might look like.
Clarke is one of the all time great science fiction writers and 2001: A Space Odyssey is one of the best books I've ever read in any genre.
Clarke, however, is not known for writing great character studies.
This leads me to believe that it is really Gentry Lee who did the bulk of the writing and Clarke's name was added to the front cover to sell more copies.
The plot is almost unchanged from the original, except this time humans have already had one experience with the Raman spacecraft.
This book is frightfully dull but not quite bad enough to warrant quitting the series.One of the good things about this book's predecessor is how quickly it gets into the action.
Every other character was abused as a child and that's used either as an excuse for them growing up to be an immoral charlatan or as proof that they have lots of moral fortitude.The book doesn't really add anything to its predecessor, I guess you have to read its two sequels for that.
But since The Garden of Rama was bad enough to lead me to stop reading the series three quarters of the way through, I'm not sure it's an experience that I'm going to enjoy.
I have not read a Clarke novel in a very long time and reading this one reminded me what I had been missing.
The novel reads almost like a philosophical treatise at times.
My favorite passage: "Nicole could still recite parts of her father's acceptance speech from memory.
In my life I have found two things of priceless worth -- learning and loving.
For when your life is over, if you can say 'I have learned' and 'I have loved,' you will also be able to say 'I have been happy.'" (pp.
Like most sequels created due to audience demand, much of the same equation is just spread out over thinner bread.
Sequels are oftentimes the same butter spread out thinner over a new slice of bread.
Yes. You know what I mean.What are the sequels that improved?
Movies like terminator 2 and aliens we by different directors I believe.
I wonder if some theorist can explain why there are basically no literary sequels that exceed the original but film examples exist.in ny case, RAMA II has a somewhat darker edge than Rendezvous (is this the influence of Gentry Lee?), without its stylistic/political unity, a world in which 20th century politics seem to be reviving versus Rendezvous' most striking "Hermans" (mercury-dwellers, who are the hot-headed and unpredictable wildcard of the interstellar United Planets).
The book is full of his trademark sense of wonder, and Clarke manages to convey awe at alien things like few others can.
Clarke then teamed up with Gentry Lee to write a sequel trilogy.
The whole series consists of: * Rendezvous with Rama * Rama II * The Garden of Rama * Rama RevealedThe follow-up trilogy explores and expands on the Rama concept, and puts forward some very interesting ideas on life in the universe, and how ready we as humans really are to inherit the stars (or Eden).
It is an epic tale of destiny, focused around the character of Nicole, a hero if there ever was one.
Not an action hero, however.
Wonderful stuff, and quite awe-inspiring.http://www.books.rosboch.net/?p=577
I'd originally read the whole series back in high school, about 20 years ago.
After that you're turning the pages pretty quickly, especially when I I find myself skimming through a lot of the 'relationship stuff.'Looking forward to reading the third book again soon.
A lot of people say Gentry Lee ruined this series.
Let me tell you something right now, those people are full of hooey.This series really picks up with Book 2 and Book 3 is one of my all-time favorite sci-fi books.I sure hope you give these fun characters a chance and pick up this great sci-fi novel today!
