https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6709.Practicing_the_Power_of_Now
از خصلت های خوندن این کتاب اینه که نفس یا ذهن به شدت از متنش واهمه داره و به هر ترفندی دست میزنه تا کتاب رو نادیده بگیریم و ماه ها طول بکشه تا تمومش کنیم و سر آخر موقع نتیجه گیری ازش چنان ذهن خالیه که نمیدونیم جریان چی بوده و قرار بوده چه چیزی رو یاد بگیریم !
امان از این نفس و ذهن و به امید رهایی ابدی از آن ...
I never managed to complete reading the Power of Now although tried several times.
This book was a god send, and even though it still suffers from what seems to be repetition of the same principle on every page, since it is a lot shorter I have read it in a day and feel like I have fully grasped everything that Eckhart was trying to convey in his main book.
So if you, like me, find the Power Of Now a difficult read this book will definitely give you all the main ideas in a concise digestible form.
Tolle has a way of giving meaning to life by using exercises, meditations and essential teachings (many based on Eastern philosophies) to bring peace, balance and harmony into our lives. The goal is to be able to bring about and sustain an enlightened state of consciousness in our immediate existence. I'm particularly attracted to the Budhist, Hindu, and Taoist notion of "no-self", relinquishing the ego so that life's challenges do not impact you, rather you flow through and around them. In my opinion, this philosophy embodies what self-confidence wants to be when it grows up.
This book contains many strategies to help us lead a richer, more satisfying life.
In many ways it's the work journal or exercise of Tolle's previous work, however it contains many quotable lines which you want to come back to.
Stress is caused by being 'here' but wanting to be 'there'.
It's the split that tears you apart inside." (p.50)I read this book in one sitting, however because of its mantra-like repetition of key concepts, I think it would be better to dip into it from time to time, reminding oneself of the need to take time out to achieve balance, to centre our beings in tranquillity, to take fully immerse our self in the moment rather than looking forward or back.
beautiful book :)
What a gem. So much more easy going than the original. Ought to be read once a month or whenever you need peace of mind. You dont even have to read from one end to the other. The headings allow you to reflect on the areas of your life where you need inner peace. For once repetition actually benefits the reader instead of annoying you.... Highly highly recommended.
Practicing the Power of Now is a handy companion to Eckhart’s wildly popular The Power of Now. Essentially, Practicing the Power of Now contains the same information as in the first book.
However, I have to say that I prefer this format.
The first book was written in a question answer format.
He also included amalgamated questions that covered a variety of common queries.
These question and answer sessions gradually took the reader from common perception through to an understanding of the illusions that we generally accept as real and the importance of the present moment.
The best quotations, mediations, and exercises first previously presented are also included.
From this point of view I can agree with Tolle’s suggestion in the introduction that it is an Introduction to the grander version in his previous book.
Then a second reading allowing plenty of time to practice the exercises will allow the more familiar and the less familiar to balance each other rather than feeling like too daunting a task.Once some familiarity has been achieved, Tolle’s own suggestion of randomly opening the book to read or practice an exercise will already have some foundation upon which to anchor its practice more readily.
I wish someone had told me that this was not new content from Eckhart Tolle, it is basically an abridged version of The Power of Now. So it's obviously very good, but not worth buying if you just barely finished The Power of Now and are looking for more.
The three star rating for this book has little to do with its actual content and more a reflection that it turns out to be an unnecessary purchase. It lifts sections of "The Power of Now", often verbatim, and offers nothing new.If it has some value it saves the reader from paging through "The Power of Now" to find the exercises.
My husband and I have read all his books ---(started listening and reading him before many knew who he was).Master Spiritual leader
i don't know what to think, man.
Suffering comes from resistance; wishing that circumstances were other than they were, insisting that something 'shouldn't' be happening.
Suffering comes from living in the past, or the future.
Tolle wouldn't be the first writer I'd suggest to someone interested in dealing with life challenges in a way that brings you peace.Because that whole binary gender only completed by "opposite energy polarity" thing?
On the other hand, I've been meaning to read this for twenty years, and I feel a great deal of satisfaction knowing I finally did (whether or not it was worth the wait.)
It took me quite awhile to finish this book.
There was a great deal for me to digest.
Even then, I believe this is one that I will have to periodically refer back to in the future."The mind identified state is severely dysfunctional.
It is a form of insanity."Almost everyone is suffering from this illness in varying degrees.
The moment you realize this, there can be no more resentment.
How can you resent someone's illness.
According to Tolle, as long as we continue to identify with the mental self as our True self...
- rise above thought, give every moment the fullest attention with all senses- step out of your mind, realize that time and mind are inseparable (focus on the now)- acknowledge your emotions without judging them, accept suffering- resistance is experienced as negativity- surrender to life's flow, realize that cycles of low energy are vital for regeneration- learn from nature -- "look at the lilies, how they grow; they neither toil nor spin," said jesus- choice implies consciousness (the unconscious mind compels you to think and feel in certain ways)- full presence leads to peace, nature responds to peace
A very good summary and a hand book for the original book (The power of now).You can reread it as much as you like,and every time the contemplation will be a different experience.
The book is good.
قوة الان، قوة اللحظة التي نعيشها الان، هذا الكتاب الذي اكاد اجزم انه من الصعب فهم و ادراك محاوره من 
Eckhart Tolle published the Power of Now in 1997. Many inspired readers wrote him and requested a more practical version for daily study. In 2001, this small, but powerful version was released. Having read most of his writings, I tend to go back to this one and A New Earth quite often. Truly eye opening and life changing for me.
This is an important book for everyone to read. It provides the secret to peace. I dig Eckhart Tolle. I meant to choose just THE POWER OF NOW. That's what I meant to review here. I've never read PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW, but since I'm such a Luddite, I don't know how to change my choice here so forgive my ignorance. Just surrender to the craziness of my now.
A much more digestible version than the full Power of Now. I read that one years ago and it just didn't sink in as much. Now, after reading (and loving) A New Earth, this one was a great companion book.
I read this a while ago but just read it again recently. I love reading calming or uplifting or centering things before bed. And this is one of my favorites.
Better format but EXACT same book as The Power of Now
A friend of mine is completely smitten with Tolle's book The Power of Now, and insisted that I read this smaller book while I was visiting him over the long weekend.
Although I found a few things that resonated with me, most of that was of the "stop and smell the roses" type philosophy that I've believed for a long time.
Most of the rest of it I found ridiculous - especially that people who act badly are under the influence of their "pain bodies" and therefore not responsible for their actions.
absolute dross given to me by an idiot. should be used to line hamster cages at best
One of the most life changing books I've ever read. My thought process and actions have changed for the better thanks to some of the concepts of this book.
Eckhart Tolle: “Nothing exists outside the Now. Nothing ever happened in the past; it happened in the Now. Nothing will ever happen in the future: it will happen in the Now.” Two: When I experience a “life situation” that is not pleasant and even painful, I have three choices:1) stop doing what I am doing 2) if a person is involved, I need to speak to the person concerned and express fully what I feel or 3) drop the negativity that my mind has created around the situation and serves no purpose.I can recommend this book and its concepts to you.
This book has proven to be one of the greatest Spritual books written in recent times.it contains a 
I feel like it can really change my mind-if I let it.
The sections that dealt with controlling your mind stood out especially since my mind kept wandering all over the place while trying to read this book.
I have been practicing reeling my mind in since reading this book.The portions on the Ego also made a ton of sense.
I agree that the ego likes drama and chaos.
More attention should be focused on Now. The end lost me a bit and I struggled to stay focus and comeplete the book, but overall it is a good read.
I have to secretly admit that this was a joy to read as it's very enlightening (please don't tell anyone, it'll ruin my reputation ;-p)..
joking a side, it's very motivational and helps calm the nerves (or if you are anything like me with nervous energy and find it hard to chillax).
It also helps you remember to appreciate the little things in life, like the brown autumn leaves that scatters on the ground, watching rain drops on the window making random grid shapes as they cascade down the side of the glass, making shapes and funny faces out of cululus mediocris clouds ...
I think I have ruined my reputation myself!

