https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/373593.The_Civil_War_Vol_2
But Lincoln’s placement of Grant at the head of all western forces puts an end to their momentum, as the Union is finally able to drive Bragg’s forces from the ridge where they had long besieged Chattanooga on the Tennessee River.As a master of narrative history he harnesses his novelist skills to paint the stories behind these and other campaigns like little stage-plays full of atmosphere and realistic detail, especially in the area of the personalities and motivations of the actors.
This one takes up with events following the removal of the American commander, George McClellan, and his replacement by General Burnside in time to start off with the December 1862’s Fredricksburg and ending in the spring of 1864, with Grant taking command of the entire Union Army.The beginning for me might have been slow, but from the moment Foote starts to discuss two of the most decisive Union victories, Gettysburg and Vicksburg, I could not stop reading.
As we finished the second volume in this trilogy on the Civil War I wondered who/what I am most amazed by: the War in all its many complexities which tore our nation apart, the man who wrote this book over 50 years ago when he was still in his 40s, or the incredible people (north and south) who fought, struggled, suffered and died for so many different reasons.
I can forgive him that.There are so many things about this book which I like: it’s narrative flow, detailed descriptions of the times and people, humorous anecdotes, comparisons between north and south, Lincoln and Davis, Grant and Lee, etc.
When I started Vol. 1, I said I wanted books that took up years of my life. The first one didn’t quite— it took less than three months— but now the second one has filled that bill. And I couldn’t ask for a better one to take up that time.
Volume II takes up with events following the removal of the American commander, George McClellan, and replacement by General Burnside in time to start off with the December 1862 charnel house of Fredricksburg and continues with all of the major, and minor, conflicts of 1863, ending in the spring of 1864, when General Ulysses Grant had taken over command of all of the Union's Armies.
Lincoln's Southern critics had reminded their citizenry that this President had earlier fired General Fremont, commander of the occupying Union forces in Missouri, for declaring that state's slaves emancipated without consultation with his superiors or with the White House, where Lincoln was holding off on issuing his Emancipation Proclamation at the time.
Also, so many lessons to be learned about the arts of leadership, and what happens when they are lacking -- as in all but the last general in charge of the Army of the Potomac!This is the second volume of three of historian Shelby Foote's The Civil War: A Narrative.
One example: Nathan Bedford Forrest, encountering one of his men in headlong retreat, stopping him in his tracks, pulling down his trousers, and administering a savage spanking with a brush to motivate him to reconsider, which he did.The period covered by the volume is calendar year 1863, in which two of the most decisive Union victories took place: Gettysburg and Vicksburg -- right around the 4th of July.
Volume 2 takes us up to the point where Grant is made lieutenant general in charge of the entire Army.
There are PLENTY of dates during the description of the multi day battle at Gettysburg, but dates again disappear thereafter.
One thing that becomes crystal clear after reading volumes 1 and 2 is that both sides had their problems with generals, so it wasn't just McClellan, as more cursory histories might lead one to believe.
Although he briefly alludes to the point of view that Grant did not have such a problem, the author comes down on the side of those who believe he did, but only when he was bored and his wife was not there.
Like the 1st volume, Shelby Foote's 2nd (of 3) volume of his massive The Civil War: A Narrative series is nearly 1000 pages countless details. These books are a truly amazing accomplishment. Foote has the gift of elegant writing, which makes it considerably easier to make it through such a vast series. If you want to dedicate a few months....or years....to learning about the Civil War, these books will do the job. If you only want to know this gist, I wouldn't go with any of these. However, the Gettysburg section would be a good read for anyone.
As Gen. Johnston ineffectually hovers off to the north, Pemberton loses a holding action at Champion Hill, bottling his troops up within "the Gibraltar of the South," as Grant, Sherman, and McClernand prepare to assault the city.
After several failed attempts to take the city directly, Grant settles in for a protracted siege, forcing Pemberton's surrender on July 4.In Tennessee, Gen. William Rosecrans slowly consolidates his strength for a push on Chattanooga.
Sherman's winter campaign in Mississippi is a brief, and not entirely successful, sideline leading up to Grant's assumption of overall command of Union forces in March.Once again, the political focus is on Lincoln, now prepared to throw down the gauntlet of emancipation.
The second volume (Fredericksburg to Meridian) of Shelby Foote’s magnificent The Civil War: A Narrative is a feast of biography, politics, military tactics, and a visceral exploration of the wrenching turning points in the conflict that still haunts America.
What makes this second volume even more enjoyable is that after spending so much time with the various personalities on both sides—all of whom are drawn with vividness and empathy—that sense of familiarity leant an even deeper resonance to the narrative.
Foote is at his best as he describes the lead-up to, the fighting, and the aftermath of Gettysburg—though, really, all of the twists and turns in the war during these years are handled with flair.
At this point Lee knew the South could not hope to actually win the war unless he gained a major defeat and the so-called "Copper Heads" in the North insisted on forcing Lincoln to give up the fightWhen Lee was defeated, the new Northern general, Meade failed to follow Lee's army in retreat and destroy it.
The balance of the book deals with further victories in the West by Grant and failure in the East by Meade to achieve anything at all despite having much greater forces than Lee. This leads to the end of Volume II when Lincoln realizes, in spite of his advisors, he must bring Grant to the East to command all the Union forces as the General In-Chief, the man who will win the war in Volume III.
This is not just a compendium of facts and troop movements, it's a real, living breathing account of the men who fought this war.
The personalities are drawn with a vivid brush, you know what it's like to try to hold the factions of a country together (both sides had riots), the politics and rivalries between the generals, and what the civilians experienced.
This book is so real, so accurate, that Gettysburg, a battle that took three days, takes three days to read.
I've read books on that battle that weren't this good.
The thing is, when I'm reading these books, that's what I want to do.
This second volume is as good as the first, especially since it covers some of the most dramatic battles of the Civil War: Gettysburg, Chickamauga, and Chancellorsville.
Shelby Foote's writing is as good as ever.
An Alabamian described the racket as 'one solid, unbroken wave of awe-inspiring sound...as if all the fires of earth and hell had been turned loose in one mighty effort to destroy each other."My second favorite, an exchange of dialogue between General Braxton Bragg and a long-suffering private: Do you know what a retreat looks like?" Private: "I ought to, General.
I have never enjoyed reading anything more in my life.
The author is biased towards the south, and he fails to adequately incorporate the political developments of the time into his account.
But the Civil War is the story of the south more than the north, and its being told by a southern partisan is thus fitting.
No one has ever brought ghosts to life like this.
After reading this book, places like Shiloh, Vicksburg, and Chattanooga are transformed into holy ground.
It is so gargantuan, I fear I will never have to chance to read it again

No drop off at all in volume 2 of the series, and did not disappoint.
In fact, the material is pure war topics, without the precursor material found in Volume 1.
Foote's narrative style draws me even deeper in, and I'm very fascinated how objective he is, when I was expecting a much more Southern perspective.
And still I think Foote offers the Southern side objectively, that I think was probably missing in epic series (i.e. Catton) like this done that were done in his time.
LOVED page 719's account of the Texas captain captured at Chickamauga, and his predictions for the battle he provided to Rosecrans under interrogation.
Foote's novelistic history of the war is well worth the (considerable) time commitment. There are more scholarly works out there, and there are more readable (shorter) works out there, but I'm not aware of any other book that combine's the exhaustive coverage of the whole war with a novelistic style that keeps you going through the whole, long, dragging misery of the 1860s.
Incredible.
Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain got exactly one line!
Just amazing.
Foote's writing falls in an odd spot between history and entertainment; I guess that made him an obvious choice for his role in the Ken Burns Civil War documentary.
Foote writes wonderfully, and though his status as a mid-century Southern white man shines through every word he does not indulge sectionalist perspectives the way many of the contemporaries did.
As far as I know, Foote's telling of the major facts and events is still considered accurate and probably no one has done a better job of humanizing and illustrating the conflict from the perspective of soldiers, particularly white southern soldiers.
Well, it only took me three years to get from Volume 1 to Volume 2, and my comments are about the same: this is as detailed a history of the war itself as can be imagined, tracing the armies and the battles on a day to day basis.
I do wish that there was more here of the social and political aspects of the war (though that would have doubled the size, I suppose), since little of that is covered in details (other than things like the NY draft riots that directly related to the military aspects), but it is hard to complain about a tome as well presented as Foote's.
A thorough and entertaining telling of the middle part of the Civil War, lasting roughly from the ap
Pemberton’s forces and subsequent siegeSurrender of Confederate forces after Lengthy Siege, Grant’s turn to face and defeat Confederates forces east of Vicksburg at Jackson, Miss under Joe JohnstonMiddle-West Tennessee Battles between Rosecrans (Union) and Bragg (Confederacy)	Battle of Murfreesboro, Union victory of sorts in very bloody battleForrest’s long cavalry chase of Speight – ‘63Bank’s campaign to capture Port Hudson, south of Vicksburg, siege similar to Vicksburg, eventual surrender, surrounding action near New OrleansDefeat of Confederates in attempt to capture Helena, Arkansas over Union forcesMorgan’s long cavalry ride for confederacy into Ohio and eventual petering outUnion relatively easy capturing of Little Rock, AKQuantrill’s horrific massacre in Lawrence, KS as part of reprisal for Confederate imprisonment of women aiding confederacyShelby’s long confederate cavalry raid into Missouri, success but no overall impact on Union in westRosecran’s drive against Bragg in Tennessee Longstreet’s transfer of troops from East to Bragg’s assistance in TennesseeBattle of Chickamauga in Tennessee, Union (Rosecrans) vs.

The second book of Shelby Foote's Civil War trilogy picks up where the previous book left off with the Fredericksburg Campaign in December 1862 and going up to Grant's appointment as Lieutenant General in March 1864.
Large scale battles feature prominently of course like Gettysburg and Vicksburg, but smaller engagements and naval battles also get much needed attention which is interesting to learn about.
I particularly liked how the book ended on almost a cliff hanger with Grant taking command and the toughest year of the war just on the horizon.
Three months into 2017, and I'm already two-thirds of the way through Shelby Foote's 3-volume narrative, and one-sixth of the way through my 2017 goal of reading a cherrypicked selection from the New York Times Civil War Books List!
If only clinics weren't looming ahead, I might actually make it.
Like the first volume, this is an excellent book by any standard, and there is a good reason why it continues to grace library shelves and reading lists fifty years after it was written.
Foote's prose is sharp, fluid, and peppered with wit, that retains the epic grandeur and tragedy of the war.


This series seem more like a single large book, split up into multiple volumes because it would be i
