https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49252.The_Complete_Short_Stories
Este livro termina com um breve resumo da vida de Ambrose Bierce, que é tão estranha e perturbadora como a maioria dos contos que escreveu.
Nasceu no Ohio, em 1842, e foi um dos treze filhos de um casal pobre mas culto.
Um dia, atravessou a fronteira mexicana e desapareceu para sempre.Este volume contém os 92 contos escritos por Bierce.
Hey! You like Kafka, right? Cormac McCarthy? Borges? Then why the FUCK aren't you reading Ambrose Bierce?This is our own homegrown, 19th Century Gothic/absurd/nihilistic wonder, by turns moody, witty, unearthly, gritty, surreal, and blackly humorous in a way that makes Flannery O'Connor seem like Dora the Explorer. He covers so much territory in so many genres and was so far ahead of his time to really be fully appreciated by us Yanks, and then, when life sucked too bad, had the cojones to actually disappear. Do not sleep on this, friends.

If you only read one Bierce story a day, you’ll be busy for a year.
There are so many works of masterful craftsmanship, that it’s difficult to consider them all.THE SUITABLE SURROUNDINGS is a thesis statement on the enjoyment of horror fiction.
It’s tight and compact and shows the strength of the short form.
THE DAMNED THING had a direct influence on the creation of THE DUNWICH HORROR, and we’re the better for having both works to enjoy side by side.CHICKAMAUGA is an amazing story.
This is probably the best zombie story I've read this year.
So many wonderful, unexpected things to be found in these pages. Probably American literature's most gruesome sense of humor. The civil war stories read like horror stories. The horror stories read like dark comedy, and the tall tales read like the wicked, prolonged jokes told by drunken old men.
This book is divided into three sections: The World of Horror, The World of War, and The World of Tall Tales.
The World of Horror is an enjoyable collection of ghost stories.
The World of War is, obviously, a collection of stories on war, the Civil War to be specific.
This section would be given five stars.
The World of Tall Tales was virtually unreadable.
One has difficulty believing these stories were written by the same author who wrote the stories of The World of War. These would get one star.
The only thing that could make this collection a more perfect union would be to put the 'tall tales' section at the beginning or middle because, there's a touch of anticlimax reading them after the ghost and war stories sections. Oh they're great, they just don't wrench you and break your heart like the other two sections do.
As soon as I read this quote by Bierce in the introduction, I knew this collection would be worth reading: "I know how to write a story...for magazine readers for whom literature is too good, but I will not do so as long as stealing is more honorable and more interesting." I smiled while reading this, silently agreeing with Bierce that there are a plethora of readers "for whom literature is too good," and respecting the fact that he refused to compromise his literary principles to make money.
Some of the stories in the collection were mediocre while others were excellent, but on the whole it was well worth reading.
One short story I especially enjoyed was "The Applicant," but they are all well-written and many are amusing and thought-provoking as well.
Ambrose Bierce was a true American original.
Civil War hero.
Journalist.
A true master of the English language who lived by the maxim "Less is more" in his writing.
(He defined a novel as "a short story, padded").
Gifted with a razor sharp mind and a wit commonly referred to as "pure venom", Bierce's stories are unique in the amount of power he packed into so few words.
In this collection, you will find his excellent ghost and horror stories, his often horrific tales based upon his experiences in the Civil War, and his hysterically funny, politically incorrect "fables".
Highest recommendation.
To be the favorite child of a good woman is better than gold." Then, at times, he achieves sublimity worthy of Murakami, such as in the sentence: "No sooner had he set foot amongst us than he was assailed with a tempest of questions which, had they been visible, would have resembled a flight of pigeons." Ironically, I felt most enamored by Bierce in the last several stories in the collection, all taking place upon various sailing vessels, with reoccurring characters, including a Captain Abersouth, who reads amounts of second-rate literature in the midst of various disasters, and who often seems to die at the end, and a narrator who always seems to miraculously survive.
In an era when, Flash Fiction is popular and attention spans for readers are often short, Bierce should be considered a true Pioneer in the field.
In fact, all Bierce wrote were short stories and he basically disdained Novels as "bloated" short stories.
Bierce had a sad, somewhat depressing life in which he experienced lots of death and violence all the way up to his own mysterious and still unsolved disappearance-which could have been right out of one of his stories-but he used these tragic experiences to write some of the greatest, dark stories ever written.
I was crushing on Ambrose Bierce from a distance before, but then I read The Old Gringo. Now I want to join the ranks of the obsessed.
Within in the compiled collection there is so much to like. Ambrose Bierce haunts, drops bombs, hangs men over bridges and leaves not a single detail to waste.
This volume divides his stories, not too arbitrarily, into three categories: “horror,” “war,” and “tall tales.” For me, his horror stories are most interesting, not least because of the obvious influence they had on the writer HP Lovecraft, who literally borrowed one of Bierce’s lines (about small boys and broken windows) for one of his stories, and who also used imagery and the fictional god Hastur from the story “Haifa the Shepherd” as well.
Ambrose Bierce is considered one of the finest satirists in the English language, and also a perfecter of the modern short story.
He was an early practitioner of the short-form tale of terror, and as I understand it did much to till the soil (alongside the likes of M.R. James) for the bloom of horror and weird fiction in the early 20th century.
This is why Bierce's reputation lingers on even as many of his influences are forgotten.His storytelling is not without flaw; in particular, his horror tales suffered from a formulaic set up.
Well, Ambrose Bierce maintains the lead as the best darn short story author the US has produced (and we have produced a lot good 'uns).
As a contemporary of Mark Twain, a Lieutenant in the Union Army during the Civil War, a columnist for Hearst, and an observer in Pancho Villa's army, he saw it all, and wasn't afraid to speak his mind.
I've attached a link to one of his Civil War stories below for those that want a taste of his less humorous side.An Occurrence at Owl Creek BridgeFor a quick taste of his humor:BELLADONNA, n.
I had read and loved "The Occurrence At Owl Creek Bridge" and "The Damned Thing" when I was a kid. A few that I actually liked better reading this book of short stories were, "The Secret of Macarger's Gulch" for it's initial scare and humorous ending, and "The Watcher of the Dead" which also had a fun ending. Bierce's writing is straight-forward and descriptive, and one of the few from the turn of the century to have dealt with the supernatural. A fun read for me.
I am no longer a twerp Mr. Vonnegut! I have now read An Occurence at Owl Creek Bridge. I must have been sick the day it was assigned in 8th grade. I am glad that I've read it now. It is an amazing story. Bierce strung me right along (no pun intended). Wonderful surprise ending.I'm surprised Bierce and these stories are not more popular. They are ghoulish and macabre. Excellent material for campfire story telling.
Uneven, as any omnibus will be, but Bierce's precision has the merit of brevity. When he's got hold of a rum idea, at least he doesn't torture it beyond its length. At his full powers--"Chickamauga," "The Moonlit Road," "The Affair at Coulter's Notch" and so many others--I'd probably cite him as my favorite short story writer, acerbic yet still heartfelt, dispassionate but fully invested, formally precise while aware of the horrors that threaten all reason.
I've actually only read a few of the stories in here, but I love Bierce's style and humor. Some of the stories are satires, others are twisted little gothic tales--but they all share his peculiar dark wit and sometimes bitter irony. He's great for when you're in a bad mood or just need to laugh at humanity. The stories are fairly short, so it's a good thing for casual reading or to take on a plane ride.
Bierce is fabulous. Love his Devil's Dictionary, too.
A number of the war tales, for example--including The Incident at Owl Creek Bridge--rely on surprise, horrific, or weird endings much in the same way as the stories of horror.
Turns out the scientist has a room full of snakes; the man thinks he sees one--and eventually dies of fright.
at root, haunted house, man sent there by ghost of woman he killed.
could as easily be tall tale 1888Charles ashmore--and again 1888SF hallucination--dead man's dog haunts, kills murderer.
I thought I might devise a quiz game for my students that would include the question, "Where is Ambrose Bierce's grave?"-a trick question because, according to Find A Grave, "the fate of his body is unknown to historians." Apparently, he went to Mexico in 1913 and was never heard from again.
He told many ghost stories and eerie tales of death, mostly about the Civil War and the wild western frontier.
He is also quite a wit and I found his story, "The Bottomless Grave," as hilarious as any writing by Oscar Wilde.
I loved Bierce's writing style; eloquence. A few stories in this volume felt a little repetitive in plot, though--cases of seemingly supernatural disappearances of characters. (Ironically, Ambrose himself disappeared in Mexico and was never found). I had to return this book to the library before I could read it in its entirety, but was satisfied with the experience for the moment, and ready to savor the voice of other writers. I will return to Bierce and read pieces he is more lauded for soon.
The first section of Poe-esque scary stories were quite good. Then the book comes to a complete standstill when I began the military stories. The last small section of "Tall Tales" went faster, but were just a bit repetitive.
It's divided up into three 'sections': horror/supernatural, war and "tall tales".
While I appreciate the organisational nature of doing so, I have to say that it did take some of the surprise out of some of the stories and highlighted the themes that Bierce used in them.
The (linked) trilogy of stories about a sea captain and his passengers had me laughing aloud at times.The famed "Occurrence..." is part of the war stories section, concerning a Confederate spy who is facing being hanged above a river (or the eponymous creek).
His writing style is meticulous and well crafted which is both his strength and his weakness, often shining through his journalistic background; many a time to the detriment of the story.
Good horror, in my opinion, takes on a personal nature and with Bierce's style of narrating from afar, too often do I feel disconnected with the nature of his fear.
Otherwise, a great read.Update: Skipping over part II (the war stories) for now, I went straight to part III, the last section of this collection related to tall tales.
Bierce's tall tales are like nothing I have ever read.
Favorite passage: "The soldier never becomes wholly familiar with the conception of his foes as men like himself; he cannot divest himself of the feeling that they are another order of beings, differently conditioned, in an environment not altogether of the earth.
My incentive to understand or predict the future fades with each and every day, especially since I have no children of my own and kids these days are taught to disrespect and distrust the elder generation.Ambrose Bierce is not only the past, he is a distant past at this point and the only relevance I found was in the war stories.
The book probably merits three-and-a-half stars rather than four, but I gave it the benefit of the doubt, since short stories generally aren't meant to be read in such close proximity to one another.
Bierce was certainly a character, in American literary history as well as in general.
(And he was an Ohioan to boot, which prejudices me towards him.) I agree with some of the other reviewers that the arrangement of the stories in this collection tends to weaken their impact, as the stories in the final section are generally much sillier and stranger than the two sections that precede it.
Because there are so many great tales, especially of the horrors and folly of war, I suggest reading-around in the book.
Choose a story and, several days later, read another.
If you don't know where to begin, start with these:Morality tale: Haita the Shepherd (27) Horror: The Secret of Macarger's Gulch (32); The Watcher by the Dead (72); The Damned Thing (97); The Moonlit Road (136); The Suitable Surroundings (220)War: The Affair at Coulter's Notch (276); An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge (305); Chickamauga (313); The Coup de Grace (319)Tall Tales: The City of the Gone Away (414); Oil of Dog (427)
