https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/280846.Vintage_Murder
Sadly, almost none of it contains the humor and playfulness I had come to associate with Alleyn, although there is one hilarious scene with a somewhat odd stagehand Shakespeare-obsessed stagehand at the end, strongly reminding me of Micheal Keaton's performance in Much Ado About Nothing.One of the oddest moments is an afternoon car ride and picnic interlude with a suspect during the questioning phase of the story, particularly because Alleyn has the permission of the New Zealand police to question the person in a more 'informal' setting.
It does, however, allow Marsh an opportunity to wax lyrical about the scenery.There's also a sideline in here with a Maori doctor, and Alleyn noting (and disapproving) a racist reaction among some of the theater people, as well as the New Zealand police.
As numerous people have said before me, and I'm sure will continue to do so, "if only we had halves " .
(As a complete aside before I continue, why is GR so awful on kindles when they are both Amazon ??
)Ok, back to the book, there was nothing intrinsically wrong with it, it just never seemed to get going, and if I'm honest I struggled with some of the characters under suspicion so had to keep referring back to remind myself who they were.
Well I am, for a few days, only one book behind now, and I'm looking forward to the introduction of Troy.
Maybe I'm going soft, but I'm getting fonder of Ngaio Marsh and her upper class sleuth, Roderick Alleyn!This book makes it clear I've been pronouncing his name wrong all these years. It's Allen not Al-laine. & he is enjoying a holiday in Marsh's native New Zealand.Members of the Incorporated Playhouses acting troup offer Alleyne a seat in their train carriage. They are all on their way to the fictitious town of Middleton, near Ohakune in the centre of the North Island..          The Daylight
Maybe I'm going soft, but I'm getting fonder of Ngaio Marsh and her upper class sleuth, Roderick Alleyn!This book makes it clear I've been pronouncing his name wrong all these years.
Staged - I kill me!) in a highly unlikely way and (also to me highly unlikely) Alleyn ends up assisting the local police.What I liked was revisiting old fashioned kiwi slang.
Marsh even has Alleyn as an author;
This reminded me so much of my made up world as a young teen that I gave an affectionate giggle!I also liked the cast of characters and the inventively named chapters.
However, he is not destined to get much relaxation after falling in with the Carolyn Dacres English Comedy Company, who are on tour in New Zealand.
It is not the best start and then, when the company arrive, their initial on stage success is dampened by murder.All throughout her life, author Ngaio Marsh was heavily involved in the theatre and so this is obviously a world she knows well – as well as being set in her native New Zealand – so possibly I anticipated more from this.
Once you realise Marsh has been manipulating you, that wry smile comes, for you are in the hands of a master writer, and you then enjoy the pleasure of the denouement.
Once, I realised I was being manipulated, I did determine the killer, but it was quite a way through the book, and I didn’t have to wait long for the revelation.If the flow of the novel is anything to go by, Marsh enjoyed writing this story, for the reader gets much enjoyment from the style and narrative and character development of the book.
However, while traveling cross-country by train he encounters a touring acting company which includes one familiar face (found in the earlier story Enter a Murderer) and he makes friends with others.
It definitely doesn't surprise the reader that murder strikes during the birthday party and Alfred Meyer, the husband, is the victim.
It will take a careful review of the time table and looking at the scene of action from another point of view before Alleyn finally spots the culprit.I really enjoy the Marsh books set in the theater world.
Enjoyable outing with Alleyn in this fifth entry in the series. Alleyn is in New Zealand, where he is on holiday recuperating from surgery (injured on the job?? I'll have to go back and look at #4!). On the boat from England, and then on the train in N.Z., he travelled along side a group of actors, including Miss Susan Max. The manager of the group is murdered after a performance one evening while Alleyn is there (amongst others) to celebrate the birthday of the leading lady (who is also the manager's wife)...
Ordered abroad for his health, Detective Chief Inspector Roderick Alleyn joins up with the Carolyn Dacres English Comedy Company, managed by Dacres’s husband, Alfred Mayor.
He has rigged up a fancy apparatus that, using stage techniques, will cause a lot of champagne bottles to descend when Carolyn cuts a cord.
But something goes wrong, and a bottle lands hard on top of Mayor’s head, killing him.
Thus Alleyn gets forced into yet another case, this time from a new culture.Read the rest of this review and other fun, geeky articles at Fangirl Nation
For instance, this quote: "when he spoke, one forgot his age, for his voice was quite beautiful: deep, and exquisitely modulated.
They still believe in using their voices as instruments, they speak without affectation, and they are indeed actors." The scene is New Zealand, Alleyn is on holiday and at first he's incognito.
Here is Alleyn watching the line of a mountain at dawn."the peak of the mountain was flooded with thin rose colour, too austere to be theatrical, but so vivid that its beauty was painful.
He felt that kind of impatience and disquietude that sudden beauty brings.
How had I missed Ngaio Marsh for so long?
This is a hip, funny, clever mystery that takes place in a theater, a setting Marsh knew and brings fully to life.
Vintage Murder unfolds in New Zealand.
Wikipedia informed me that Marsh was born there so I was intrigued to read the only one of her mysteries set there.
Vintage Murder was written in 1937 and in many instances shows her unshakable egalitarian nature.
Another passage shows her witty descriptive incisiveness, " - was seventeen years old, dreadfully sophisticated, and entirely ignorant of everything outside the sphere of his sophistication.
This book involves two things particularly close to the heart of Ngaio Marsh, New Zealand and the theatre. Perhaps that is why Vintage Murder seems to have extra depth and was such a pleasure to read. The mystery itself and the plot were nothing terribly special but the setting and the characters were a joy.
Three and a half stars, rounded up to four because of the excellent audiobook narrator, who enjoyed himself mightily taking off classic British ack-tohhrs whose voices and mannerisms are recognisable to any listener of a certain age.
His "New Zealand" accent had a tendency to slip over to Sahth Effrica, but nobody's perfect.Classic theatre mystery which starts on a train, giving the golden-age mystery lover a twofer...which is about right for Happy Hour, as the murder weapon is a jeroboam of champers.
Ngaio Marsh shows of the glories of New Zealand as seen through the eyes of our Inspector, who is meant to be very open-minded about the Maori character...and yet.

Reading about the theater setting was enlightening and interesting. The characters came alive as well. I very much like Inspector Alleyn's personality."...there are people to whom one need not show off. It's a great comfort sometimes. I've got one of that kind.""Your wife! But I didn't know----"Alleyn sat back on his heels and laughed. No, no. I'm talking about a certain Detective-Inspector Fox. He's a large and slow and innocently straight-forward. He works with me at the Yard. I never have to show off to old Fox, bless him...
Every character had stone alibi and that made the reading pretty exciting for me.I had a surprise in the end when I found out who was the killer because I thought it wouldn't be so obvious.In this sort of classic crime novels I don't know the reason why I can't write big reviews, but perhaps it's just because I don't want to spoil anything.
Anyway, I truly recommend you to read this book if you like Agatha Christie's books or some in the same genre.
Vintage Murder is one of four Ngaio Marsh murder mysteries set in New Zealand, although there is little to show that.
Other than that, the characters are all members of an English acting company touring New Zealand.
The story might as well be set in Bournemouth.
The pleasure in this story is Ngaio Marsh’s description of the actors and their lives as members of a theatrical troupe.
I'm not sure whether this is excitement at the discovery of a mystery that has all the elements I enjoy in a Golden Age whodunnit, or gratitude to Marsh for writing about New Zealand in a way, that if self-conscious, is understandably so, and reminds me of an era I never knew, but is engrained in me as much as any part of New Zealand is -- which sounds affected and makes no sense, but there you are.
There's just something about reading Ngaio Marsh talk about New Zealand that makes me nostalgic for home.
The writing is gorgeous in spots. Marsh is stretching her wings and finally taking flight as a genre author with her own voice. It strikes me that she may have found her detective star boring, since Alleyn had to be the strong noble aristocrat at all times, so Marsh really let herself go with her suspects' characters. For me, the best part of most of her novels is the oddball people who could also be murderers. However, I find myself recognizing Marsh suspects as I chat with real people, so doubtfully edge away. Cue the noir music.
There isn't much action, and most of what there is takes places off stage (if you'll pardon the expression, since most of the characters are actors and much of the setting is in a theater).
But anyway, if you like action in your mysteries, this one probably isn't for you.
That said, I still, now and then, had problems telling the characters apart, which may have been more of a storytelling/writing problem.The mystery story was decent, though, and for the most part the book was entertaining.
First sentence: The clop and roar of the train was an uneasy element somewhere at the back of the tall man's dreams.Premise/plot: Inspector Alleyn can't escape work on his vacation to New Zealand.
He socializes with them on the train to their shared destination.
Inspector Alleyn witnesses the 'surprise' along with most of the cast, crew, and invited guests.
Will he be able to solve the crime and determine the motive?My thoughts: This mystery novel is set in New Zealand, in a theatre in New Zealand.
People spend half their time wondering about each other.
I'm giving this 3 stars, which is "liked it," because I can't say I "really liked it." but I did enjoy it! the majority of the book is Inspector Alleyn having conversations with various suspects and bystanders and reflecting on how they make him feel and how he has to present himself to get along with others. it's not my favorite format for a mystery, but it's still very readable and full of beautiful descriptions of New Zealand (and stage life).
Reading this was like slogging through semi frozen pea soup. So boring and tedious. Confusing characters, too much talk about the functions of a theater, and a slow moving plot.
Dull entry in the mystery series. Not worth your time. Full review at classicmystery.wordpress.com
Alleyn takes a holiday from Scotland Yard to tour around New Zealand, where he meets up with an English touring theatre company.
Despite his initial reluctance to get involved, Alleyn soon finds himself helping the local police team to investigate events.Marsh is 'at home' here, using her knowledge of her home country and of the theatre to create an authentic and engaging setting.
Realistic no doubt, but not too exciting.Sadly no appearance by Alleyn's delightful sidekick Fox who is busy back in London chasing up information for his boss.
On the other hand, I appreciated seeing a more subdued and thoughtful Alleyn in this book.
This was a delightful, chatty little mystery book, written by Ngaio Marsh, who, in my impression, must be New Zealand's version of frequent-writing and famous Agatha Christie.
The writing style felt very laid back, like I was watching a 1940s movie; I practically read everything in my head in a transatlantic accent.
The book was set in a theatre, which was very new for me, but apparently a very common setting for this author.
I liked how the progression through the plot laid everything out for the reader as the detectives figured things out so that when the big reveal happened it wasn't so confoundingly unfollowable.
Vintage murder because the victim was killed by a falling jeroboam of champagne; vintage mystery because this was initially published in 1937.Marsh's series detective Roderick Alleyn is on holiday to New Zealand to recuperate after being wounded, when he is present at what should have been a bottle of champagne delivered to the leading actress whose birthday it is.
This being New Zealand, the Maori element is brought in by the presence of an Oxford-trained Maori doctor at the murder scene, along with a lot of other people, including crew, cast, and guests.
This is the first book of the series to take place in the author's home country of New Zealand, though it gives the reader less feel for the country than the later books.
Instead we get a detailed look into the world of the theater, where Marsh was also at home.
A fun touch for those reading the series in order is the return of Susan Max from Enter a Murderer, the #2 book.No one could ever accuse Marsh of not playing fair with the reader when it comes to her mysteries.
As with the other books, this is a nice little mystery with a carefully set up puzzle.
That gives it some good moments of description: there's one interrogation with a lovely setting, and there are some characters who are very lovingly described.
There's a bit about Maori culture, too, but mostly that felt like a set piece tacked on for some exotic interest.I think I can see a development here toward something I'm more interested in reading -- Alleyn, Fox and Agatha Troy, introduced in the next book, might draw me in properly for good.
In this book, Roderick Alleyn is in New Zealand for a medical rest (although the problem is never specified), and he gets involved with a murder in a traveling British theater troop he has met on the train.
A bit more humor is present, both in Alleyn's internal thoughts and with issues between the locals and the Brits in the terminology they each use.
One of the characters from the first theater mystery involving Alleyn is also in this group.
One sees a bit more into Alleyn's character and personality in this--perhaps as Marsh herself sees him.
I have read and thoroughly enjoyed several of the Roderick Alleyn mysteries, so I was quite disappointed with this one. It's extremely slow and dull, with totally boring characters. )Granted, Alleyn is on holiday, but that doesn't mean the book has to be boring.) I realize it was written in completely different times, and the style is not quite what we're used to in books now, but this didn't even measure up to her other books. That won't keep me, though, from continuing to read her books!
