https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41757.Oh_the_Thinks_You_Can_Think_
Paradoxical imagery so shiny that you get lost in the conundrum.Pushes the imagination to the brink.I remember a quote that mind staples with this book. And it goes as " All children are born artists. The problem is to remain an artist as we grow up. "- Pablo Picasso
oh, the thinks you can think,It's in your eyes just do as blink.
I love, love, love Dr. Seuss.
And while the "made-up" words were cute, they felt more like a way to make a rhyme than anything else.I liked the illustrations, I *love* the idea, and parts of it did make me smile.
But mostly it just felt like a rough draft.Thankfully there are so many fantastically wonderful Seuss books out there, that there's plenty of his works to read before this one ;)-ETA- Obviously plenty of others loved this book!
So, perhaps it was just the mood I was in when I read it...?
Oh The Thinks You Can Think This one is kind of a follow on to (and a little less amazing than) One Fish Two Fish. But it is still fun – the graphics are amazing and Escherian.
The power of the imagination!
Dr. Seuss explores the imagination and encourages the reader to push their creative mind to limitless heights.This is another Dr. Seuss story I am unfamiliar with.
The book showcases Dr. Seuss' creative brilliance and originality in a way that touches directly on the reader's own creative mind.From vivid imagery and conundrums to endless parades of his invented species, Dr. Seuss' words are as vibrant as his illustrations.
His imagination is infectious.Whether you're old or young or somewhere in-between, this book is a must-read.
Crazy But Cool!
Dr. Seuss was always a favorite of mine as a child and now I’m sharing them with my daughter! The colors are great for little ones and the stories always fun!
The more I read of Dr. Seuss, the more I love him! I love the line, "Oh the thinks you can think up if you only try!" Though sometimes, it can get quite challenging to read with the tongue-twisting sentences. : )
"Oh, The Thinks You Can Think!" by award winning Dr. Seuss is a marvelous way to encourage students to embrace their creative side and stimulate their imagination."Oh, the THINKS you can think up if only you try!
If you try, you can think up a GUFF going by." "There are so many THINKS a Thinker can think!
I started out by just listening to the audiobook Green Eggs and Ham and Other Servings of Dr. Seuss which is an audio collection of nine stories narrated by Jason Alexander, Michael McKean and David Hyde Pearce.
The illustrations accompanying the text are truly wonderful, but as I’ve pointed out about other books by Ted Geisel aka Dr. Seuss, listening to the audio tracks alone can also be a really fun exercise in letting your imagination run free.
There’s a good reason why kids of all ages have enjoyed Dr. Seuss books from one generation to the next—they truly stand the test of time.
I love Dr Seuss - my kids loved Dr Seuss - and I’m sure that my grandchildren will love Dr Seuss. My younger daughter reading Green Eggs & Ham to her grandfather has become part of our family lore (let’s just say it was a particularly dramatic rendition). So I am likely biased heavily to enjoy this - it was one of the few that I did not remember reading and it has all the clever rhymes and colorful illustrations. It was a fun, fast read.
Oh, yes, let's bless the power of imagination!
Read 1/12/18

It uses rhyming words and has illustrations that help kids determine meaning, which is why it falls into the Children's Book genre.
Because of it's rhyming nature, it could be used as a story to introduce the concept of rhyming words to students.
At early levels, a follow-up activity could be to match words that rhyme, and at higher levels, students could write their very own rhyming poem.Next, this book is an example of the mentor trait idea.
After reading the story to students, the teacher could have them use their imagination and write about a make-believe place they wish they could visit.
Imagination and thinking is such a crucial part for development and children in general.
The book is filled with many random things to think of and thats huge.
Imagination is amazing and especially in this book.
The colors are so bright and vibrant its just amazing to look at.
The pages are really busy and have a lot going on in them which I think helps keep the kids entertained.The words on the page are almost normal until the end then the font twirls in a circle.
Full of childhood memories!
Like all Dr. Seuss books, this story is wonderful!
Everyone will love this book but beginning readers especially.
This story encourages young readers to play with their imagination.
Not only does it touch into children's imagination but it also encourages children to develop their creative skills.
Which is why books like these are important for young readers; they are at an age where they benefit the most from imagination and creative skills.
Dr. Seuss uses made up characters so the illustrations do a great job at showing the reader what exactly these characters look like.
All illustrations are bright and lively, which young readers especially enjoy.
This book is about using your imagination to think up all sorts of whimsical and some nonsensical things.
The element of craft that I think this book uses best is the art of specificity.
Thinking is such a broad and vague term, yet Dr. Seuss broke thought down into silly and and imaginary situations that children could understand, thus showing children that they really can think about anything.
It starts out with the vague concept of thinking, then goes into the specific things that you can think about, and at the end it goes right back to the concept of thinking.
I never read Dr. Seuss as a kid.
In any case, I now have the pleasure of reading Dr. Seuss to my children.
These children know what's up).
In any case, I'm so happy Dr. Seuss is their favorite because he's mine also.
The books are a joy to read, and this one, in particular, celebrates the power of the imagination, inspiring children to "think" outside the box, and create the world the way they imagine it.
And isn't that what childhood (and hopefully, we are eternal children) is all about?
This book, by Dr. Seuss, is about using your imagination!
The author uses many different situations in the text to describe some of the things you can think of.
There are many exotic looking pictures to match along with the text and put the words into play for a child.
Go ahead and get this book to read with your children!I think it's great that this book was created to try to encourage children to use their imagination!
The illustrations in it are very crazy to look at but they definitely catch the reader's attention.
There is, of course, rhyming in this book because the author is Dr. Seuss.
Similar to Oh, The Places You'll Go!, this book helps encourage students to expand their horizons.
Specifically, various topics of thought are discussed and rhyming is a key component used to help demonstrate all the things students can think of.
This topic is an important aspect of early elementary as it demonstrates to students the value of thought.
This value is shown to be expansive and encourages students to continue using the power of their minds to accomplish what they want to accomplish.
Overall, this is a book I would use in second or third grade with the goal of having them read this book on their own.
Every Suess book has a hidden message that speaks for children and adults alike who read him as a child and are now reading to their children or their children are reading for themselves. In this case, this is simply encouraging those to never cease thinking; To think up crazy and cleverness in life to figure around puzzles and life. Never let anyone tell you not to think for yourself because someone wants to keep you in that controlled place where you will never escape. A little dark for a Suess book, that's what I gained.
There is no limit to what you can think & the breaks in Seuss's rhyme scheme, often due to direct questions, forces the reader to pause and reflect on what he is asking. Usually, this means examining his artwork. In my case, it meant that as I'm pondering all the things I could imagine, I'm witnessing what he created - the unlimited bounds of his wonder. It's inspiring & exciting how a world not yet known awaits me, within me. This is the wonderful gift he gives children. Highly recommended.
As a board book, I really disliked this. No fundamentals; and my child kept asking what things were and I had no answer because they were nonsensical. Much better for an older child in picture book format.
This book is great! It really encourages children to be creative and use their imagination. The pictures are also very fun and bright.
7/24/16: Such an excellent book I accidentally bought a second copy. This is the second time I've done that in the last two months.11/2/13: Too short!
I really liked this book, but was kind of disappointed in the page that talked about 55 elephants having a drink. I counted only 34 elephants. Really made me think, though.
I love Dr. Seuss, but this book was just ok in my opinion. Definitely not a favorite.
