https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/633114.Kiowa_Trail
An atypical L'Amour story in which a Texas cow outfit, upon the murder of one of its' men, decides to put a town under siege. The title really has nothing to do with the story, but it probably helped sell the book. Recommended to L'Amour fans.+
Initially a superior revenge Western, KIOWA TRAIL comes unglued in the third act once cheesiness and lazy writing take hold. Too bad, because the set up is terrific. The early chapters indicate that L'Amour is aiming for something more clever than your typical revenge plot, but he ultimately reneges on the book's promise by reverting back to the same ol' familiar cliches. Several fortuitous coincidences near the end of the story undermine any attempt at believability, and the only Native American who speaks English talks like Injun Joe from the old Porky Pig cartoon.
I grew up on Louis L'amour westerns.
At 14 while most girls were swooning over Pride & Prejudice, I disappeared into shoot 'em up westerns.
In a way, this one is a bit unusual for a Louis L'amour.
It is more character driven than most of them, yet there is still plenty of gunfights and fighting.
No fist fight, and the mystery of the main character's back story is told in flash backs that break up the main action (since most of that main action is a siege of a town).
It also is a tad unusual in how it ends, but I won't give that away.
Murder and mystery in the old west by ago-to author for taking readers to the past.
Another very good Louis L'Amour read. The had a buildup for a big showdown and when it came it was satisfying and NOT as violent as it could have been. Good enough action and colorful characters.One thing a little puzzling to me was the title of the book, in that the Kiowa Trail was never mentioned, and Kiowa warriors were not mentioned very much till the last section of the book.
Every time I read a novel by Louis L'Amour, I am reminded why he is the King of Westerns.
His novels are not of the "cookie-cutter" variety and this novel is vintage L'Amour.
But it is L'Amour's skillful use of flashback sequences which defines this book.
But L'Amour successfully pulls it off.
L'Amour's storys are always "real" in that the locations are real places and many of the characters are historical.
Few historians are as knowledgable of this era as L'Amour, and it shows in his novels.
If you like stories about good guys who kick butt and get the girl and the bad guys who get it in the end, read Louis L'amour. He also has a knack for describing scenery, and every canyon, spring, etc. he mentions truly exists. He was a great authority on the American Wild West which is not quite how Hollywood often portrays it.
When I read for entertainment, other than to learn, broaden my understanding, underline, take notes, and or seek God, the classic western is a really good place to lose myself in, and authors like Louis L'Amour make it easy. His is the style of the fireside story teller, and stories of when the nation was young, wild and free of modern encumbrances.
A good, read for anyone who likes westerns or adventures. It is more complex than some of Louis L'Amour's other books, but it is still filled with action and suspense. I felt like it wasn't as predictable as some of his other books have been.
Louis L'Amour is a great storyteller. I wasn't sure if I'd enjoy a western, but his writing kept me turning pages. This is a fast read, lots of action (gunfighting) and anticipation of what will happen next. I enjoyed the flashbacks to the main character's past.
A different styleI don't know if it was because this started as a short story, but it was a different style than most of his. Strange cut scenes and a jumping around with the characters. It was like there were four short stories related to each other and just stitched together.
Picked up this audio book at the library. A great L'amour story.
Didn't think I'd like westerns, but L'Amour is a true master. I can now see what all the hype is about.
A good, solid L'Amour novel. Highly enjoyable.
A very unconventional western!
"John" in the reviews made the comment, "Initially a superior revenge Western, KIOWA TRAIL comes unglued in the third act once cheesiness and lazy writing take hold." That is a perfect description. L'Amour is a great storyteller - I wish the ending was tighter.
My grandma told me once that my grandpa liked reading Louis L'Amour books, so even though it's not high literature, I find I enjoy them with the idea that my grandpa may have read the same book. The three star rating was probably helped significantly by the aforementioned idea.
3 1/2 stars
I'd like to read it also, but as a CD it's a 4 star for me.
My rating 3.5 stars
couldn't put it down. Best yet that I've read.
Vivid Western with swagger
This was my first foray into the western genre, and I definitely know it won't be my last.
It was simple but eloquent, at the same time.
And there's something about a western--the nobility, the loyalty, the good versus bad--that just makes me happy.
I just love it when the "good guys" come to save the day and they have these wickedly cool lines that make me happy that I'm not in the villain's shoes.
I personally think that makes for a good tale.
I was totally and pleasantly surprised by this, and I will definitely be looking for more from Louis L'Amour!
In my days of the American Westerns I continue with a Louis L'amour classic.
I have to say, while writing this review, I have already finished two other Westerns.
It seems that Western novels are pretty much Harlequin Romances for the manly-man.
Oh sure, you still have the beautiful woman rancher and her silent, but deadly and handsome, rider who is in love with her, but is well..silent about it.
This book, however, is pretty much action through-out with every page a turner.She, the rancher, has a brother who is killed by some New England type bankers who have taken over a cattle town in Texas.
I actually could not wait to get in the car to listen to another great Western by Louis L’Amour.
This Western has it all and that is what made it such a great story.
This Western has it all and that is what made it such a great story.
The characters were great, Conn Dury and his history, Kate Lundy and her strength, Tom Lundy and his youthfulness, and the rest of the cowboys from the Tumbling B.
The settings from Kansas to Texas and even Europe were great.
This is a great Western read from the best of Western writers!
It is probably terribly unfashionable and also politically incorrect to give a Louis L'Amour western a five star rating.
I have read over forty of his novels and found only "Sitka" and I believe "The Last of the Breed" exceptional and the reason for that was they were not the formulary westerns that he is so famous for.
This book was formulary L'Amour..........good guy, bad guys, pretty woman and shootout.
That is exemplified in his dedication to this book which read "to lieutenent Ambrose Freeman my great-grandfather, who lost his scalp to the Sioux, Dakota Territory, 1963".

Western - It was no crime for a young cowboy to want to talk to a pretty girl, but that was what got Tom Lundy killed.
The hard men of the Tumbling B, who had survived stampede and Kiowa lance to drive their herd up from Big Bend country, wanted to burn the town down.
But Kate Lundy, the Tumbling B's owner, had a better plan.
Calling on dozens of seasoned fighters, Kate aimed to strangle the town that lived off cowboy money but had no use for the Texans themselves.
Kate Lundy and her foreman Con Dury, get embroiled in a battle in a Kansas town after her younger brother Tom gets murdered for crossing the wrong side of the street. The townspeople are happy to take the cattlemen's money, but the "Texas trash," had better stay on the south side of the street, if they know what's good for them. This is probably the best western I've read so far. L'Amour is at his best here.
A good old fashioned western, reminded me of John Wayne movies somewhat. The good guy, Conn Drury, has some gray areas in his past but is still your basic western hero. There's the good woman, the heroic and handsome Kate Drury and the bad guy from the east - Aaron McDonald and his wicked daughteer Linda.L"Amour keeps the tension going well and tells a good story.
