https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57655.Government
I've read a string of fantastic books lately. This is another.You may have heard of B. Traven 1) because of his amazing and mysterious life story, of which no one knows much of anything, 2) his book The Treasures of the Sierra Madre which was made into a great movie by John Huston, or 3) that the author is the model for Benno von Archimboldi, the mysterious writer from Roberto Bolaño's  2666  (no one knows who B. Traven is, he has committed scholars dedicated to his work, he is most likely Germa
Traven 1) because of his amazing and mysterious life story, of which no one knows much of anything, 2) his book The Treasures of the Sierra Madre which was made into a great movie by John Huston, or 3) that the author is the model for Benno von Archimboldi, the mysterious writer from Roberto Bolaño's 
Traven's "Jungle novels," six books which document the oppression of a people and their eventual uprising.
Not honoring your debt, of course, is punishable by death.It's a brutal story and it reminds me of the first season of The Wire in that it seems to be setting up the groundwork for an entire world, and it seems to be setting up awfulness to come.
Written in the 20's, Traven describes the peonage and debt slavery that were common under the rule of Porfirio Diaz. The first of 6 "Jungle Novels" shows Indians of Mexico being enslaved to advance commerce. This description could have been written a century later: "You cannot have cheap mahogany and at the same time...respect for the humanity of the Indian. The civilization of the present day cannot run to both, because competition, the idol of our civilization, cannot tolerate it.". A bit pedantic, but spot on.
Unfortunately, I think it is a pretty accurate allegory: the final ranted blood-soaked justification summarized in the last pages, the convoluted excuses for the brutality and human misery so that some can have luxury goods and others can claim their nation is important in world affairs.It's unsettling stuff, and I'm glad I started the Jungle Books series at #2 (The Carreta) because this initial offering is a little too bleak.
I'm not sure I would have picked up another in the series if I had started with this one.
The sort of book that shouldn't work, but does.
At one point, Traven abandons him entirely before bringing him back in after a lengthy diversion.
The many methods used by Don Gabriel and his colleagues to exploit the Indians for commercial gain are portrayed with a level of detail which is entirely convincing and an extraordinary feat for a non-native writer.
I can't think of a single negative thing to say about this book and I can't think of another writer who could have pulled it off.
A work of misanthropic genius.
This novel is a masterclass in kleptocracy.A fascinating look at the political corruption in Mexico leading up to the Mexican Revolution, Traven is all the more effective and affecting because his style is so spare and matter of fact, presenting the corruption in large part through the perspective of a corrupt official, with occasional forays into the experience and views of the oppressed native population.
B.Traven books once opened you can't stop until you are in the last page
As always, B. Traven's wry wit doesn't fail to deliver. I highly recommend this book, and to follow it up with Rebellion of the Hanged.
Traven's acclaimed jungle novels, and per usual, I was very pleased.'Government' chronicles the roots of the Mexican revolution at the turn of the 20th century.
It's a very quick, cut and dry story that almost feels like a civics book, but with very interesting, nuanced characters set in the rural villages of Chiapas.
Like 'The White Rose', Traven uses the Native Indians of Mexico as the protagonists, pushed and provoked by ruthless Capitalists who have no choice but to start a revolution against the corrupt Don Porfirio Diaz.Compared to his other works, 'Government' is a far less eventful read.
I first read the mysterious B Traven, best known as the author of Treasure of the Sierra Madre, back in the early 70s when someone exchanged a copy of his Death Ship for some book I had just finished, while I was backpacking through Europe and North Africa.
While planning an upcoming trip to Mexico, I came across his name again in relation to his "jungle novels," a six-book series set in pre-revolutionary southern Mexico.
But the final third contains the narrative threads that the first part sets the stage for, although the reader gets no clue what's to come.
Masterful.On to the second book in the series, The Carreta.
This novel continues the caoba (mahogany) cycle of novels that began with The Carreta.
The realistic, almost pedantic, description of the governmental system impedes the appreciation of Traven's aim in this critical novel of ideas.
The contradiction of the system is best expressed by the statement: "Either we have cheap mahogany, or we have respect for the human dignity of the Indian.
The searing irony of the story as the Indians are exploited by their landlords is muted by the forced prose of the narrative.
This was not the best of B.
Traven that I've read.
Best book I've read in a great long while. I feel that life (or our public education system) has cheated me considering I hadn't heard of this book until the age of 38. The thanks goes to my father who recommend I start reading B. Traven. Can't wait to read the second book in this series called The Jungle Novels.
Government is the perfect novel. Funny and depressing. I like Government. I like that B. Traven's name is B. This book is sarcastic and illustrates people and goverments and systems and other things but it is also a novel with characters.Thank you.
The great Jungle Novel series!!
Čistih in popolnih 5 zvezdic. Kaj naj rečem, to knjigo je preprosto treba prebrati. Še zlasti v teh časih in v teh krajih. Kar je Vladar za oblastiželjne, je Oblast za obvladovane.
The first of B. Traven's incredibly ambitious Jungle novels really gets things off with a bang. Highly recommended if you're willing to invest the time.
Iluminador.
Reveals the dangers of a central government with no rule of law and the enduring nature of a limited government with citizen leaders that serve a limited term.
