https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/138444.The_Web_and_the_Rock
) на изданието от Библиотека „Избрани романи“, а в самото начало са сбъркали името на Джордж с това на баща му - Джон?!ТРИ ЧАСАПреди около двадесет и пет години един майски следобед Джордж Уебър (а не Джон Уебър, който е баща му ) се беше излегнал на тревата пред къщата на чичо си в Оулд Кътоба.След тази книга имам чувството, че мога да прочета всичко, че мога да премина през "гъсталака" и на "най-гъстите" и "сплъстени" изречения.Няма как да не пиша объркано за този роман.Това е роман за един човек, който открива живота и света - но това откриване не е внезапно и смайващо като "появата на нова звезда на небосклона", а дълго и мъчително, тъй както е писано на хората да откриват нещата - чрез грешки и изпитания, чрез въображение и илюзии, като стават жертви на лъжи и собствената си глупост, тласкани от безумие и егоизъм, от амбиции и надежди, убедени и обезверени, те грешат и бъркат, като всеки от нас, който се стреми, търси и се осъществява.Любовна история, разказ за вечното момче, останало влюбено в миговете на детството си и порасналото дете - Мъжът, влюбен в Жената на мечтите си.
Հիասքանչ վիպակ էր. հետո Ժենյա Քալանթարյանի գրախոսական-համեմատականը գտա՝ Հրանտ Մաթոսյանի ստեղծագործություններ հետ։ Ու հանկարծ՝ շըրխկ՝ ահա թե ինչու այդքան հարազատ թվաց։ Ալվարդ Ջիվանյանի թարգմանությունն էլ է շատ լավը։ Ասես հայերենով գրված լիներ։ Թարգմանության ոճը խոսակցային է, բայց այնքան հարթ։ Կարդալ, անպայման։
The protagonist in The Web and the Rock, George Weber, writes a novel deemed unpublishable due to its extreme length—lazy editors send him insulting rejection letters without bothering to read the manuscript, alcoholic writers give it backhanded praise after admitting to having only read “a page or two, a line here and there” (even Weber’s lover, who believes him a genius, counsels him to cut a few hundred pages).
This is comparable to the relatively recent editing of Ralph Ellison’s massive incomplete manuscript into a book called “Juneteenth” for posthumous publication, except that in that book’s case the editors were upfront about their process, while Aswell wrote a disingenuous essay claiming that his task had been mainly to polish a nearly complete work.
I love Thomas Wolfe.
I read something today that described him as the Proust of the American South.
There are parts of his books that completely blow me away.
That said, he REALLY needed an editor, and The Web and the Rock was not that well edited in my view.
It was cobbled together after Wolfe's death, and the beautiful passages get drowned a bit...
It says something that this book is now out of print, but since I was really looking forward to reading _You Can't Go Home Again_, I felt compelled to read _The Web and the Rock_.
Reading this book was like falling in love. Decades after I closed the book, I still often recall this author's vibrant phrases and the emotions he conveys so well.
Рядко чета толкова бавно, но с Улф нямаше как да се получи по друг начин.
Съществителните също са пет-шест.
Явление, което Фицджералд би изразил с две изречения, на Улф отнема поне шест страници.
За по-сигурно.Красив език има Улф, безспорно, обаче толкова ме изморява това непрекъснато нанизване на подробност след подробност с повече подробност за уточняване на подробността.
страници състоянието на мъж, който чака влак?!?!
А действието дори не е започнало.Лавинообразният поток от думи, който се лее почти без прекъсване близо 800стр., оплита като паяжина и почти по същия начин задушава невинната си жертва.
Nothing much happens in this book: George Webber grows up in a southern town, goes to NY, and there falls in love with an older woman.
One review I read said that you could pick up a Wolfe book, open it to any page, read a few paragraphs, and then put the book away again.
He writes very upliftingly, very beautifully, but that style of writing begins to bug when there isn’t much story to speak of and when the book goes on for hundreds of pages.
But, he’s still a favorite of mine, even if this book is not on the top of my list.
Found this in a used bookstore today.
Like all four of the huge, generally formless and quite outstanding books Thomas Wolfe completed before his early death, 'The Web and the Rock' is really an autobiography thinly disguised as a rhapsodic coming-of-age novel.Like his author, George 'Monk' Webber' is from North Carolina, is an ambitious, overly sensitive young man who dreams of finding fame as a writer, and goes to New York where he becomes a teacher and has an affair with an older, married, wealthy woman who supports him.
In Wolfe, America already had its own Beat Poet a full generation before Kerouac et al ever picked up a pen and went out on the road.
Describing a fist-fight with the tough kids from the wrong side of town, Wolfe says "...they stood there massed against him in the whole concert of their hated qualities...he had to meet them on their own earth of red waning March and Sunday afternoons" - the last phrase a perfect English example of what the Greeks called "hendiadys".
He is really only describing one March Sunday afternoon but the rhetorical trope makes a generalization of it.All the descriptions of his teenaged impressions are this lush; Whitman-esque lists conjoining every sensation imaginable, two pages solely on the smells of his hometown, and so on.
It took me over a month to finish this book, and I was ready to pitch it a quarter of the way into it.
Thomas Wolfe may be an elegant writing, however his descriptive flowery phases run on and on.
This book is not for those who wish to speed read or just enjoy fast pace novels.
After college he moves to NY city, enjoying all it can offer and begins his journey as a writer.
Some believe it is a autobiographical of Thomas Wolfe and how he might have seen life in his early twenties.
That is the reason to read the book or maybe not.

For some reason, this third novel sees Wolfe changing the main character's name from Eugene Gant to George Webber, and there is a little bit of overlap with the first two, although this one concentrates on his great love affair with "Esther Jack" (who has the same name when she appears at the end of "Of Time And The River"). Anyway, it is, of course, another stunning work of epic autobiographical fiction. I suspect anything else I read after finishing Wolfe's novels will seriously pale in comparison.
A neglected classic. Although the narrative sags at times (especially the mid-to-late sections centered on protagonist George Webber's relationship with Esther), to complain of such is to miss the point of the book. Wolfe is focused on tracing in detail the full psychological and existential contours of one character's mind. As such, plot is secondary (yet there are brief moments of narrative pathos, such as the chapter "Child by Tiger," which would make a moving short story in its own right).
Ահագին հետաքրքիր էր գրված, բայց գրքի ռասիզմը մի տեսակ խանգարում էր։ Իրականում պարզ է, որ նախորդ դարի ամերիկացիներն էդքան ռասիստ կլինեին, նույնիսկ հիմա են հարավում ռասիզմի տարրերը պահպանված, բայց կարդալիս մի տեսակ տհաճ էր։Թարգմանությունն էլ ահագին կենդանի էր արված։
The content-order of the four major novels:Look Homeward, AngelOf Time and the RiverThe Web and the RockYou Can't Go Home Again
How can I not like a book that has a fictionalized version of the true story of my grandfather playing QB at UNC and defeating our rival UVA.
There are some great passages here. It's prose poetry.But it seems cobbled together. It was, after Wolfe died.
Просто добавлю несколько любимых отрывков***Заявляя, что некий молодой человек «еще не нашел себя», эти люди, в сущности, говорят, что он не потерял себя, как они.
Люди часто говорят, что «нашли себя», когда на самом деле загнаны в колею грубой принудительной силой обстоятельств.***Потому что молодые люди этой страны не являются, как часто о них говорят, «потерянным» племенем – они еще не открытое племя.
И вся тайна, наука, знание, как открыть его, заключена в них самих – они сознают это, чувствуют, носят в себе – и не могут высказать.***У него появились чувство уверенности, вера в себя, которых не было раньше.
The Web and the Rock is my first book written by the late, great Thomas Wolfe, my introduction to his genius and passion.
Our hero, George Webber, a struggling author, abandons the woman of his dreams, of every man's dreams, the sweet and extremely patient Esther Jack.
You feel like reaching through the pages to strangle the fool, as his madness and self-loathing destroys everything he holds dear.
Wolfe, here, gets 4 stars out of 5.
His descriptive and extremely deep analysis of every situation is amazing, but sometimes a bit too lush.
But Wolfe is still incredible...
Although I loved Look Homeward Angel and Of Time and the River, I found this novel uneven, tedious, and considerably less enjoyable. I am still a fan of Wolfe, but would not recommend this novel to anyone.
Another book that delves into the search for meaning and adventure of a young man, and the impact that aging has on his outlook."He had suffered the sad fate of men who live to see themselves become a legend."On Dostoevski - "...
one of the grandest surprises in life is to open a book expecting to meet an author, and to find instead a man.""He was so shaped in the heroic and romantic mold that he always had to be the leader.
I've been wanting to read him for ages and had this on my shelf just waiting for the right moment.
And I totally understand that this was written at a time period when social norms were entirely different than today.
Update 05.01.2016 - yanks me back with something like, "he would perform on her the glorious act of love.
He would dedicate to her the full service of his love and energy." Oh Thomas Wolfe, you are ridiculous.
I'm a Wolfe addict at this point.
After finally finishing this book (I should have stopped reading it after the first 25 pages but I kept hoping for better), I am mindful of the need for brevity.
The ennui of the tortured writer…ho-hum, i.e., “so lacking in interest as to cause mental weariness”.
Colossal lack of self-awareness cloaked in the illusion of self-examination.
This book had an abundance of flaws but my review ends here.
God! Parts of it were brilliant and parts of it were pure CRAP. As others have written, the relationship with Esther takes WAY TOO LONG to fall apart and seriously has ANY couple EVER had such conversations?HOWEVER the bits with Monk growing up in Catawba, the beautiful descriptions of his first encounters with the City, and (for me, the most brilliantly written chapter in the entire novel) the chapter at the end where George goes to the Octoberfest in Munich. No one writes about food and beer and goodtimes like Wolfe. So, real fantastic and also complete crap.
A slow difficult read about a young writer in New York City and his temptestuous affair with a married woman. The writing was beautiful in spots, but diffuse and unfocused for most of the book.Generally, Wolfe has a congested can't-get-it-on-the-page-fast-enough style, but his manic energy was missing in his last ans post-humorous novel. But at times he captured a moments with soaring fearless language.
2.5 instead of 2. The first 400 pages of this book flew by when I read them last year. Then Wolfe decides to delve into his relationship & chronicles every word of every argument or discussion he had about his relationship for three years. It is boring, especially when the two get stuck in a rut & argue about the same thing at least 12 times before they break up. I made it through to the end, but Wolfe lost me quite some time ago. At least his other novels still inspire me.
When is the last time you read a book by Thomas Wolfe? When is the last time you even thought about a book by Thomas Wolfe? When you read "Thomas Wolfe," did you think about the Bonfire of the Vanities guy in his white suit? Once this would have seemed inconceivable. Once he was included in the convesation with Faulkner, Fitzgerald, and Hemingway. Seems hard to imagine now.
I liked what he was trying to do, but sometimes I felt as if it was words for words sake. This interfered with the story and my ability to connect with the characters, of which, there weren't really many. It was a little too much ego rambling for me. There are better coming of age books out there.
I'm going to stop torturing myself trying to read this book. I am too distracted by the author's writing style and too-often-repeated use of certain words, especially the offensive n-word. Moving on.
