https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73385.A_Knight_in_Shining_Armor
Mr. Darcy who? Nicholas Stafford, Earl of Thornwyck is a knight in shining armor. Literally. This book contains two of my favorite things- time travel and dashing British lords.  A Knight in Shining Armor is both hilarious and tragic. It's a really, really good book. So why the three stars? You know that feeling when you read a book and you can't stop thinking about it? Well, that didn't happen to me. I wanted to give this book four stars so badly. I had to force myself to click on the third sta
Nicholas Stafford, Earl of Thornwyck is a knight in shining armor.
This book contains two of my favorite things- time travel and dashing British lords.
A Knight in Shining Armor is both hilarious and tragic.
You know that feeling when you read a book and you can't stop thinking about it?
I wanted to give this book four stars so badly.
Let me start with the things I loved:-it's a slow burn-no insta love-the story is set in Britain-the heroine is a total mess, which I loved.
Like, stop drinking tea and have sex already!-at times the book was quite slow.
Why a four-star book and a wall-banger?Hmm...could it be the ending?The book was great up until the last part where....Spoilers............................................The hero and heroine do not get together!
She travels back to her time while he spends the rest of his life alone!
She meets the hero's "soul in another body" on the plane home after she is sent to the present.
Supposedly, the hero's soul found hers.
Baloney!
Sorry, you cannot substitute another person for the actual hero!
Such a depressing and horrible ending.
Ugggghhh!
See Kiss of the Highlander by Karen Marie Moning as an example of how to make this scenario turn out with an HEA!
So now, it is sitting very nicely in my book cabinet, beckoning me to read it again for I-don't-know-how-many times.
I must say, this is best book of all by Jude Deveraux.
About time-travel romance, finding and recognizing true love even if its separated by decades of time.
The scene nearing the end was heart wrenching when they were separated by time yet again, but their souls found each other, and they were 'reunited'.
Like all romance novel, the book ended with a happily-ever-after though not in a typical way.
Best read with the 'dont disturb sign' outside your door.
It was a fairly fun time travel romance that was just light enough in tone to be fun.
Some of the stuff both Nicholas and Dougless did and said were quite cringe-worthy at times.
Still, it was no worse than a lot of stuff that can be typically found in historical romance books wrote in the 80s and early 90s.
All in all I thought this was an entertaining enough read despite the fact that the characters were not an overly likeable bunch and the book suffered from some dated views.
I can be a real reading snob, so pouty and impatient about what I want in a book, and I didn’t want to do that to my firsts.Then came the Romantic Times 2013 convention.Jude Deveraux would be there, I saw in the program notes, and as the time for the con grew closer, as I made my own frantic author preparations, the battered high school girl who had been saved by romance lifted her head and began to whisper that she’d kind of like to meet her hero.
This is my all time favorite romance novel, which I've read more than once (the last time being this past weekend).
Nicholas is a real live Knight in Shining Armor sent to comfort a heartbroken Douglass in 1988.
Destined to be soul mates through all eternity, the two set out to clear Lord Nicholas' name and right the wrongs done during his Elizabethan life.
Just as he gets used to the weird inventions and strangness of the twentieth century, they are whisked back through time to 1560 where Douglass gets to experience medieval life.This timeless romance has stuck in my memory since the first time I read it, a tale you'll never forget.
I read it first when it came out back in the late 80's and have re read it so many times with each read just as fantastic. Its one of those books that impact you and stays with you forever. Love or hate the ending- it is a romance must read.
I shouldn't have read this. But oh well you live and learn :(The writing was at times weird but overall good, but the story, the ending... Horrible.That is NOT a happy end! It's actually really sad and depressing!(view spoiler)[The main dude ends up living his whole life without her! In love! Not being able to be with her! He dies alone when he is old!!!! That is not a f*cking happy end no matter what b*llshit she invents for the heroine in present time!!!! (hide spoiler)]
I first read this book in the 80's and it became my most favorite book.
It captured my heart with the romantic story of Dougless Montgomery and Nicholas Stafford, the EArl of Thornwyck.
This was my first Jude Deveraux book and I became obsessed with reading all of her books in an attempt to capture that feeling again.
This is a time travel book that touched my heart and made me believe too that there was someone out there at some time in the past for me.
I did not want the book to end and I have now read it about 4 times.
When poor, down on her luck, Dougless Montgomery gets jilted by her boyfriend and left to fend for herself in rural England, at a church no less, she accidentally summons Nicholas Stafford, Earl of Thornwyck.
I won't get into the details because like any time travel romance, these books must be read to fully understand them.
It was still beautiful to me because it showed Dougless and Nicholas were truly soul mates, time having no significance to their love.
It would have been the most perfect ending to a beautiful and evocative love story.
That said, I love a good heart-wrenching cry and a tragic story –and I’m not saying this one is or isn’t because I really think it depends on what you expect out of a romance novel.
If you’re on the side that says “romance novels HAVE to have a sticky sweet HEA” then you might not see the book as having one, I thought it did have an HEA but it was just presented differently (I can just feel those readers who don’t agree with me having read this novel shaking their heads with a look of pure disgust on their faces muttering, “is she wacked!?!” lol!
Unfortunately, I have nothing positive to say about this book as it was poorly written.
It was also excruciatingly cliche' and BEYOND the corniest of corny!!
("Corniest" - is that a word??) Whatever!
The third person narrative mode felt like it was written for a child; who consequently might forget the character's names at any given moment, (as they were in print, over and over again!) If I feel like I'm being READ TO, instead of READING a story on my own, it bugs the holy heck out of me!!I looked at the reviews and a lot of people liked this book!
Run people, RUN!!
This is one of my all time favorites, no matter what genre of romance. It has elements of historical, contemporary, time travel. And the love story is romantic and heart breaking. If you've never read it do so, if you read it years ago read it again. A true classic.
I really really liked this but not flat out loved.
I had 4 minor issues with the book.
My second issue was her Ex Robert.
In the beginning of the book It was irrating how she let Robert treat her like shit.
Douglas also didn't believe Nickolas until have way through the book.
And my last issue was the ending.
The romance in this book was perfect.
I loved these characters together.
I loved Nickolas character.
Overall I would recommend this book to people who like time travel romance books.
I LOVED this book.
I would have given it 5 stars, but the ending made me want to pull my hair out.
Years ago when I first read it, I remember discussing it with a friend of mine and crying over how much I hated the ending.
She said that when she read it, she wanted to slather the book in gravy and feed it to her dog.
HOWEVER, with that being said, I still highly recommend this book, believe it or not.
And who knows, maybe you'll love the ending even though I hated it.
Best historical romance book ever written! A Knight in Shining Armor is a must read. Imagine traveling back in time to the medieval ages to meet your soulmate!
Note to self. Reviewers say no HEA. Sad ending, heroine with no backbone.
Having recently finished Diana Gabaldon's "Outlander" series, and Sara Donati's "Wilderness" books, I was in the mood for more good historical fiction.
"Fiction" this is.
"Historical"...
"Good"...
As my degree is in English literature, I appreciate good fiction.
This is poorly written, populated by caricatures rather than characters, in a style that can only be described as unsophisticated.
It is astonishing to me that there were actually 16 other books pre-dating this one in this series!
Plenty of time to practice!I guess I expected too much after the well-crafted and beautifully written work of Gabaldon and Donati; this is simply another third-rate romance.
This love story was such a sweet one and funny at times.
I rarely find myself laughing out loud while reading a book.
One of the things I loved most about the book was the connection that the H/h had to each other.
However, I loved that Nicholas was able to feel what Dougless felt and vice versa.
For me, that added another layer to the love story.
I love when a book makes you feel what the characters were feeling and this book did that for me.
This is the ultimate time travel romance that rocked the publishing world back in 1989.
It was fresh and unique because Jude brought her hero forward in time to the present day before sending her heroine back in time to search for him.
It was the first time I realized just how compelling a "lovable loser" heroine could be.
Jude has always had the ability to write in almost any genre because she's such a consummate storyteller.
One of my all-time favorite books!
The most frustrating heroine Ive ever had the displeasure of coming across for a while now.Her character was too niave and frustrating for most of the book to actually feel any pity for her.Two star for the orginality of the story-line.Even Though that too it was a bit of a drag at times. :/
I will never forget this book. It is that good.
Sometimes there’s nothing better than to read a classic.
You know that feeling of comfort that I rarely find in new books, not sure why.
Maybe it’s the style, or the way that back then authors had to make you feel with simple words, instead of trying to shock you into it.
I picked up A KNIGHT IN SHINING ARMOR on a whim, after I saw a top ten list somewhere on a blog.
Had I heard of the book before?
Yes. Did I feel the immediate need to read it?
Did it help that it has a new sexy
And immediately fell in love.“Once upon a time……as a fair maiden lay weeping upon a cold tombstone, her heartfelt desire was suddenly made real before her: tall, broad of shoulder, attired in gleaming silver and gold, her knight in shining armor had come to rescue his damsel in distress….”Oh what a beautiful story this is.
What follows is the most adorable tale of Nicholas discovering love, learning about the new world and how far things have come from his times, and trying to solve a conspiracy that could save his life (in his times).This book has several instances of time travel, some gushy romantic times, a great heroine and an absolutely drool-worthy hero.
5/5Qué pienso de esta lectura???Bueno, desde el principio hace bastante tiempo que tengo este libro para leer.
Ame a Nicholas!!!
Me gustó como en la mitad del libro cambia totalmente la historia y justo...
yo quería saber más sobre la familia de Nicholas y Jude me pudo sacar esas dudas!
LLoré, reí y me emocione mucho con este libro y me encanto ese tema de viajes del tiempo...
termine en llanto, creo que fue emocionante y lo justo tanto para Nicholas como Douglass!RECOMIENDO ABSOLUTAMENTE ESTA LECTURA DONDE SE ENAMORARAN DE NICHOLAS!!!
There was a heavy reincarnation theme that began showing itself in the characters that appeared in the beginning (Robert, Gloria) and carried into the second half of the story.
A Knight in Shining Armor takes place in England (1560-1988) and stars Nicholas Stafford as the hero and Dougless Montgomery as the heroine.
Most of the book takes place in 1988 trying to find out who betrayed Nicholas to the Queen and accused him of being a traitor.
His family named stopped.Something happens and Nicholas is back in his time period and Dougless is broken hearted.
Through prayer and tears, she ends up in 1560--four years before Nicholas came to her.
Hoy terminé de leer por enésima vez este hermoso libro.Lo llevé al trabajo para no llorar como sabía que iba a hacer y desconsoladamente en mi dormitorio, así que traté de condicionarme para no lagrimear tan fácil, pero no pude lograrlo.Lloro aunque hayan pasado más de quince años desde la primera vez que lo leí y todavía me sigue enterneciendo.
Jude Deveraux fue la autora "seria" con la que comencé mi lectura de romance y, aunque reniego con sus últimos libros, siempre va a ocupar un lugarcito en mi corazón de fan.
This was recommended by a fellow reader in one of the Goodreads groups I am in. While I can clearly see why the book appeals to so many readers, it left me completely numb. The best part of the book (for me) was the author's note. I'm not really sure why Jude Devereaux decided that she needed to "add 50 pages" to this updated version because the plot dragged for me.
Of course, Dougless soon joins him and the roles are reversed.WHAT I LIKED:--Nicholas' voice was medieval and he was convincing--the heroine (at the end of the book)--the dialog and writing were good; some of the one liners were priceless--the historical details were accurate (if you ignore the fact the Moors were making glass mirrors in the 11th century, and later they were made in Vienna, so Nicholas, as a wealthy nobleman living in the 16th century, could have seen a glass mirror).--the endingWHAT I DIDN'T LIKE:--the heroine through much of the book (As some reviewers described her, she could be "weak," "a doormat" and "always crying." Besides, who would take what Robert the surgeon dished out and still claim to "love" him?)--Inconsistencies in characters (Dougless was fine with Nicholas cutting her arm with his sword but cowered when he spoke to the coin dealer; when she wasn't sobbing, she actually, occasionally showed spunk.
very well done.time travel + historical romance. loved that ending <3
At the beginning of the book I noticed the author uses the characters' names over and over when describing a scene much like the writing you would see in a children's book; "Douglass crossed the street.
Douglass was happy."At first I tried to ignore this elementary writing style, because I was fucking DETERMINED to like the book and the characters.
However, after struggling though a few chapters and skipping through the rest of the book to see if it got better, I realized that the ENTIRE STORY was written poorly and stopped reading.
