https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125538.Welcome_to_Camp_Nightmare
#9 "It's the little camp of horrors!"Camp is always weird your first time going. Strange noises out in the woods, weird acting camp counselors... people disappearing? What could be terrorizing Billy and his new friends at Camp Nightmoon? Another fantastic ending. I never saw it coming!
O λόγος που δεν ήθελα να πάω σε παιδική κατασκήνωση ήταν αυτό το βιβλίο... :)
While on the bus to camp, Billy encounters many characters, such as Mike, the fat kid who's scared of everything; Colin, who wears sunglasses and a red bandana around his long brown hair; Jay, the jockish kid with wild curly red hair and Dawn and Dori, two girls from the Girl Camp faction of Camp Nightmoon.
Mike returns and as his hand is described as bleeding profusely onto the floor of the cabin, Larry tells him to just wash his hand and wrap a bandage around it.The boys go to eat dinner around a campfire, where Uncle Al tells them the rules of Camp Nightmoon.
I think this was my favorite goosebumps read of this year (though I only read 3). It kept me on my toes and I couldn’t put it down. I just had to know what happened. It was the creepiest of the 3 that I read too. I will say the ending was quite a big let down, but I’m also used to adult thrillers, which don’t always have happy endings like kids’ books do.
I will be copy-pasting this for every Goosebumps novel I'll be reading.On a whim, I decided to read all of the Goosebumps books.
Some of them I've read before but, for the most part, I haven't.
I did enjoy the ones I read as a child and I am enjoying the ones I'm reading now, so that's what matters, I believe.
And I think the huge success of these books speaks volumes.
So, I'll just be enjoying reading them in the following couple of weeks, not reviewing or evaluating them.
Τα κάμπινγκ και οι κατασκηνώσεις αποτελούσαν ανέκαθεν καλούς χώρους για να τοποθετήσεις την εξέλιξη μιας ιστορίας τρόμου. Λίγο η εξοχή, λίγο η μαύρη νύχτα, λίγο οι παράξενοι ήχοι, δεν χρειάζονται πολλά περισσότερα για να πανικοβληθεί κανείς. Και ναι, μπορεί σε έναν βαθμό το όλο concept να θυμίζει αμερικανιά των 90's αλλά επί της ουσίας, κι άσχετα αν το συζητάμε σήμερα, αυτό ακριβώς είναι. Αλλά πως να το κάνουμε... το cult έχει κι αυτό τη γοητεία του.
Billy is 12 and going to his first overnight camp.First, the bus driver drops them off in the middle of nowhere after putting on a monster mask and scaring the crap out of the kids.
How come Uncle Al and the counselors don't care about children being injured, killed, or going missing?
Three, the idea of being at the mercy of the elements and wild animals but being unable to receive any medical attention is terrifying, even for adults - much less 12-year-olds.Of course, there's a INSANE twist ending that I didn't see coming, and actually really enjoyed.
I avoid the horror genre like the plague so when I am required to read horror for a challenge I turn to children's horror - I can manage that - just!R.L. Stine wrote his Goosbumps series in the 1990s and my daughters devoured them.
They are about as scary as I can cope with!Billy is off to his first Summer Camp and a bit nervous about his first time away from his parents.
It soon turns out that he has every reason to be nervous.
First the camp bus deserts them on the side of the road where they are rescued just in time from being attacked by strange furry critters with big teeth.
Αγωνιωδες page turner βιβλιο,με πολυ ιδιαιτερο φιναλε!!!!!!!!!
Μια στο τόσο λέω να διαβάζω καμιά νουβέλα της παιδικής σειράς τρόμου "Ανατριχίλες", έτσι, για να νιώσω ξανά μικρό παιδί. Η συγκεκριμένη ιστορία είναι η ένατη της σειράς και είναι εξίσου διασκεδαστική με τις υπόλοιπες. Ο δωδεκάχρονος πρωταγωνιστής μας, ονόματι Μπίλι, πάει για πρώτη φορά κατασκήνωση, όπου θα ζήσει πολύ έντονες στιγμές, θα νιώσει ένα κάρο... ανατριχίλες, ενώ θα αντιμετωπίσει πολλά περίεργα γεγονότα. Ευχάριστη ιστοριούλα, με μυστήριο, ωραία ατμόσφαιρα και ένα ιδιαίτερα ανατρεπτικό και ενδιαφέρον φινάλε. Ό,τι πρέπει για ένα παιδί δέκα-έντεκα χρονών. Τα τρία αστεράκια που της βάζω δεν σημαίνουν κάτι (7/10).
Attenti a Sabre! Ambientazione inquietante, un'inarrestabile belva feroce a mietere vittime e un capanno misterioso il cui accesso è vietato: questi gli ingredienti per una delle storie più riuscite della collana.E il finale merita applausi scroscianti, oltretutto.
أول ما بدأت قراءه حسيت بملل شديد رغم إن عدد الصفحات مش كتير على الإطلاق ، لذلك قررت إنها لا تستحق أكتر من نجمتين ، بعد ذلك أضفى الكاتب جو من الغموض والإثاره شدنى لإستكمال القراءه فرفع عدد النجوم لأربع نجمات ، دا غير جو مُسلسل Lost اللى طاغى على القصه من أولها ، وأخيرًا جاءت الحبكه كما توقعت إلى حد ما فاللإنصاف إستحقت ثلاث نجمات .
دانش آموزام اکثرا تمام جلدهای این مجموعه رو خوندن! منم این جلدش رو خوندم تا ببینم برای گذاشتن تو کتابخونه مدرسه مناسبه یا نهمثلا داستان در ژانر وحشت برای نوجوانان بودولی واقعا داستانی نداشت! یعنی من ترجیح میدم دانش آموزام برای چندین بار هری پاتر رو بخونن! حداقل یک داستان قوی داره
Listened to this on audiobook with my son. The story is pretty great. It's a typical scary camp story.I remember I owned this one as a kid, but couldn't remember how it ended. Of course, there's a crazy twist ending. I just love these books !
Goosebumps was so popular when I was a kid, we would get in fights in the library over who got to check the new one out next. No joke.
(yes they did return)I hated the ending.
I guess being a "children's book" they had to end it on a PG note, but my goodness it was such a good book could have been much better towards the end.No science fiction in this book, well almost none and I guess that's why I enjoyed it.
But again the ending was dumb and confusing.
Everytime RL does endings like these I just want to slap him with the book!
Really, the boook could have ended solidly without all the weirdness in the end.
In the book Billy and some people got to a camp called Camp Nightmoon but some people call it camp nightmare.A lot of strange things start to happen ,they heard screams for the forbbiden cabin and some people started to diasappear.I would recommend this book to someone who likes scarey books and action books.I really liked the book because when something big happened it gave a lot of detaile
This book was about these kids who went to a camp with their school. When they got to camp the bus driver stopped kicked everyone out and took their stuff out of the bus and left them in the middle of nowhere.I would recommend this book to people who like spooky stories.
الرواية تصلح للأطفال، بالرغم انها غير مفيدة ولكن لتزجية الوقت ربما.(view spoiler)[أكثر ما اعجبني في الرواية هو حين سأل والديه عن المكان الخطر فأخبروه بأنها الأرض، كانت مفاجأة حقا (hide spoiler)]بالمناسبة الترجمة لم تكن جيدة كفاية.رواية بسيطة ضمن القرائات الضخمة كي لا "يهنج" عقلي :D
I always loved the end of these.
The Camp Nightmoon (Aka Nightmare) is truly horrifying for young kids and especially the counselors and Uncle Al. The forbidden Room, the Sabre attack, Rogers death, Larry's personality, The girls Camp.
Colin is knocked to the ground and Larry helps both Mike and Colin to the main cabin to see Uncle Al.Billy and Jay go back to the bunk and work on writing their daily letters home.
Later, Billy discovers all of Mike's belongings removed from the cabin, and no one will tell him where Mike went.Later that night, Jay introduces Billy and Colin to some child named Roger when a plan is devised for the two to sneak into the Forbidden Bunk.
I was wrong because there were two twists at the end that I never saw coming...and one of 'em I don't even KNOW where it came from, but it pretty much told me that the entire story didn't even take place where I thought it did.
Eventually, the characters start calling their camps by 'Camp Nightmare.' People disappearing, weird sounds, and a 'forbidden cabin' that if this story hadn't been released before Harry Potter, I'd question if it was somewhat of a nod to the 'forbidden forest' despite being two very different things.
Just saying the forbidden cabin reminded me of the forbidden forest in ways.
Ahhh, the Goosebump days. I would borrow so many of these from the library they seriously considered extending my limit of books checked out at one time. R.L. Stine you were a reprieve from a harsh and dreary childhood in which my mind wandered far away from the troubles of the day. I stole books into my bed and read far into the night by the faintest of lights. I might have better eyesight were it not for you; however, I regret not one page or line.
This is a good one! Starts out totally creepy and doesn't let up until the end. Billy narrates his own story of summer camp and weird things happen right from the bus trip out there, things get dangerous, spooky, kids disappear, etc. until the final twist ending. Which is pretty good even though I did figure it out but what you don't see coming is the extra, extra twist on the last page, last paragraph that cues that awesome Twilight Zone music for a super horror story ending. Fun!
I thought this book was good because R.L Stine described the book very well like telling us that the clouds were blocking the sky.I recommend this book to any who loves scary stories/creepy.To me this book was really good and I feel like R.L Stine put a lot of thought in this book.
My book was kinda of boring and kind of funny.My opinion on this book is that it is a good book to read and it is enjoyable.I recommend this book to my friend Jose because he likes goosebumps books.
I really wasn't expecting that ending.It was pretty good.
**I read this book in participation of the Goosebumps-a-long hosted by Richard Denny**Literally would’ve never thought the ending would end the way it did.
RL Stine is simply a genius he literally has you not knowing how his stories are going to end and he has you on the edge of your seat throughout his books.
he has you wondering and doing deductive reasoning while you’re reading to find out what’s going on and how to help the main character(s) and it’s just simply amazing how he tells these crazy stories in a short amount of pages.
Those scary stories about camp are all coming true...   Instalment nine is about a kid who gets dumped at a summer camp by his parents and quickly realises that things aren't as copacetic as he initially hoped! I was surprised by this. It definitely has the creep factor down and it was also pretty atmospheric. I enjoyed this a lot more than I thought I would. Although, I will admit that I'm definitely not planning on camping anytime soon... like ever, haha. In addition, the traditional plot tw
Those scary stories about camp are all coming true...
  
 Instalment nine is about a kid who gets dumped at a summer camp by his parents and quickly realises that things aren't as copacetic as he initially hoped! I was surprised by this. It definitely has the creep factor down and it was also pretty atmospheric. I enjoyed this a lot more than I thought I would. Although, I will admit that I'm definitely not planning on camping anytime soon... like ever, haha. In addition, the traditional plot twist at the finale--did not see that coming!
¡Que coraje me han dado siempre l@s niñ@s que van a campamentos de verano!
