https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12374.Independence_Day
In Independence Day, the second and most celebrated of his four Bascombe books – it won the Pulitzer Prize and the PEN/Faulkner Award in 1996 – Ford shows that he knows everything about this charming, flawed and oh-so-relatable Everyman, including things Frank wouldn’t want him, or anyone, to know.The result is another masterpiece of realistic fiction, a chapter in Ford’s Great American Epic.After the midlife crisis suggested at the end of The Sportswriter ((view spoiler)[quitting his magazine job, moving to Florida and then rural France with a much younger woman (hide spoiler)]), Frank, now 44, is back in Haddam, NJ, having (re-)purchased his old house, and is selling real estate (he’s, ahem, a “Residential Specialist”), casually dating a new (more age-appropriate) woman, and maintaining a couple of homes he’s rented out, as well as a hot dog place he’s bought and refurbished.His ex-wife Ann (she was called "X" in The Sportswriter) has married an established, sexagenarian architect and they’re living in an expensive Vermont suburb with Ann and Frank’s two children, Clarissa and Paul.

Φαινόταν να έχει μελετήσει καλά την ανθρώπινη ψυχοσύνθεση και όλα έδειχναν ότι θα ήταν ένα πολύ ενδιαφέρον βιβλίο για τη ζωή και τις δυσκολίες της και για το πώς αγωνιζόμαστε για να τις ξεπεράσουμε και να την κάνουμε λίγο πιο υποφερτή.
Αυτό όμως ήταν και συνεχίζει να είναι μια δική μου προσωπική μάχη στα πλαίσια της αυτοβελτίωσης μου όταν όμως προσπαθείς όλο αυτό να το βγάλεις σε ένα βιβλίο θα περίμενα ιδίως όντας τόσο καλός γραφιάς να περνάς αυτή τη μάχη, αυτή την αγωνία για να ξαναβρείς ένα νόημα ύπαρξης και στον αναγνώστη και εμένα προσωπικά δε μου το πέρασε στο βαθμό που θα ήθελα.
- Κονσταντέν, τι περίπου υπόθεση έχει πάνω-κάτω ;- Το δράμα της ύπαρξης και του θανάτου- Συγγνώμη ρε Κονσταντέν, πάθανε τίποτα, γιατί δεν μιλάνε ;- Είναι ατμοσφαιρικό...- ΚΑΛΕ ! ΚΑΛΕ ΑΥΤΟΙ ΚΟΚΑΛΩΣΑΝΕ !- Σώπα, κουνιέται ο ένας, για κάτσε μπορεί και να μιλήσει, θα μας τρελάνει τώρα- Σταματήστε, σας είπα είναι υπαρξιακό το δράμα...
Ένας μεγάλος συγγραφέας κι ένα σπουδαίο βιβλίο.
Ford, in this book does right what I have always felt that Delillo fails at, which is the endless and minute description of events exactly as they unfold from within the subjective consciousness of the protagonist.
Ford's artifice disappears under the flood of particularities, and only a second reading of one detail or other makes clear that the author is more than talented in his description, he is a virtuoso, capable of avoiding repetition and cliche while flooding the reader with image after image and thought after thought.
But I can confidently say that this is by far the most aggravating, pretentious and boring book I've ever read.
The entire book is essentially monologue and inner-workings, which I'm typically more than happy with, but the stuff Ford presents fells absolutely contrived and ridiculous.
The main character is stale and has typical middle aged thoughts, while simultaneously being incredibly delusional about father-son relationships.
His son's motivations make little to no sense and I never, ever, EVER, want to talk about real estate with anyone again.
I speak not its name as I can't believe its designation was bestowed upon this heinous book.
Το μεγαλείο του Ricahrd Ford: τάχατες δεν συμβαίνει τίποτα, κι όμως συμβαίνουν τα πάντα. Σπουδαίος συγγραφέας, σπουδαίο μυθιστόρημα.
It's now Independence Day weekend in 1988, and Bascombe has entered what he calls his "Existence Period," drifting through his forties while working as a real estate agent in his beloved Haddam, NJ.
The majority of the book is Bascombe driving around the Northeast in his Crown Vic and having conversations with various characters, with whom he generally tries to share moments of meaningful human connection, with varying degrees of failure.It's really plain to me that I would've hated this book had I tried to read it at most earlier stages of my life, which I wouldn't have, because it's about a divorced realtor living in suburban New Jersey, and that's not the kind of novel I ever used to want to read.
Like Frank Bascombe, Ford's protagonist, I'm middle-aged and sometimes given to contemplation.
I give it bonus points for:- Inner thoughts that are meaningful and articulate--the kind that make you say, "Wish I'd thought of that, had I the brainpower to do so."- Ford's wonderful writing style--descriptive without being obtrusive.- Taking on a tough topic: the plodding years of middle age--what he calls the Existence Period.- An undercurrent of empathy despite it all.- Hints that though Frank is smart, Ford himself is even smarter.
It's almost like Ford has an omniscient meta-voice backing Frank's 1st person account.
I'm already getting ready for the brickbats on this one, but after reading more than one glowing review of Richard Ford's work, I tackled this one first, and I found that I disliked the main character so much that no amount of storytelling finesse about real estate in New Jersey and other exigencies of modern life could change my mind. And in this case, I had the feeling that Ford is a lot like his central character, so that gave me the kind of bad taste that has just put me off him permanently.
My seatmate, who is now a good friend of mine, brought it with him.
It saddened me because as far as I could remember, during his "sportwriter" days, they had a connection.
When I think about the book, what would always comes to mind was the last scene, when Bascombe received a call from someone he wasn't sure who.
The other party didn't talk and was making weird noises.
He talked to the person still, telling the other party he was all right.
That broke my heart for reasons still unclear to me, even to this day.
Okay, it's high time I gave up on this [terribly smug] masterpiece of an American novel.
Glutten for punishment that I am, after reading (and strongly disliking!) Ford's first Bascombe novel I soldiered on with the hope that "Independence Day" was, indeed, worthy of the Pulitzer Prize. After just a few chapters I realized that Ford had a formula: several chapters of Bascombe's narcissistic ramblings coupled with (surprise!) a life-changing event that shocks Bascombe into engaging with his family and the world around him about 60 pages from the end. I'm not on the Pulitzer panel, but in my opinion they made a huge mistake by awarding this hack this highly-coveted prize.
Although Frank’s interaction with this change--which includes race and class tensions, divorce, and fear of an approaching housing-market correction (Frank is now a realtor in Haddam, New Jersey)--is somewhat awkward and forced, the novel feels less claustrophobic and certainly less solipsistic for Ford’s efforts.
However, just as independence and a sense of “the mystery of things” are important to Frank, so these qualities seem to matter doubly to Richard Ford; and although we come to share an intimate weekend with Frank Bascombe, there is, as with all great literary protagonists, a kernel of mystery regarding the man’s inner life that is left fully intact, and which the reader can never quite bring into focus.
Eh. I'm torn about this book. There's no denying Ford is a good writer but I never really connected to the story. I just didn't feel much of anything for any of the characters, they all felt flat and one dimensional despite the overwhelming amount of detail he writes about them. This novel is like a song that is technically perfect but fails to inspire any real feeling.
Ωραίος και δεμένος λόγος, ειρωνας εκεί που πρέπει. Το απλώνει ωραία κ αποκρυσταλώνει/αποκαλύπτει την μικροαστική μιζέρια της αμερικάνικης ενδοχώρας των 80'ς....όταν ο Μπους ο πρεσβύτερος αποτελεί επιλογή επειδή δεν υπάρχει κάτι άλλο πιο ενδιαφέρον ... Όσο ωραίος κ να ναι ο πινακας, με τέτοιο θέμα πόσο να σ' αγγίξει δηλαδή;
There are isolated moments of real insight here and it's a shame they're lost in such a meandering, pointless story.
The story of the Markhams, how the compromises they must make in settling for the home they can afford instead of the one they really want is a powerful metaphor for the lives of these two people, for the choices they've made and how they will live out their remaining years.
I would have loved to see this as a short story.
The protagonist's insights into his own life are fairly shallow and repetitive (if I had to read the term "Existence Period" one more time I was going to put the book down for good).
More morose than his previous incarnation in the "Sportswriter," Frank Bascombe returns as the amazingly well-drawn protagonist with the incredibly compelling inner voice. He never quite connects with the people around him and is always to a degree dissembling to his friends and family. Only the reader understands his rich philosophies and the complex reactions he has to events as they unfold in his life. Kudos to Richard Ford for creating a character so real that I feel as if I've gained an intimate friend.
Frank Bascombe 2.0"...quando si è giovani il proprio avversario è il futuro; ma quando non lo si è più il proprio avversario è il passato e tutto ciò che si è fatto nel passato, e il problema è riuscire a sfuggirgli"
I stopped reading it several times and read, from beginning to end, four other books.So why the four stars?Because Richard Ford is one hell of a writer.
This book is basically a 450 page character sketch of Frank Bascombe.
Bascombe via Ford dispenses so many pearls of middle aged suburban wisdom that, at times, I wound up highlighting entire pages.
Of COURSE a few things "happen." But by and large, Frank Bascombe wants what we all want: for life to mean just a little something more than existence.
Teda aspoň podle recenze na goodreads, ale co já vím, třeba sem byl nalitej.Hlavní hrdina Frank Bascombe se rozvedl a začal prodávat nemovitosti.
Frank má dvě děti, který bydlí s manželkou a jejím novým manželem a jeho 15ti letý syn děla trochu problémy - jednou něco ukradl v obchodě a jednou fláknul otčíma svěrákem po hlavě.
Frank s nim tudíž chce strávit den nezávislosti aby ho srovnal.
Místo srovnání jdou ale do baseballový síně slávy, kde jeho syn dostane míčkem do oka a musí na operaci, která proběhne úspěšně.
A ani jsem na to nepotřeboval 500 stran.
And, believe it or not, I made it all the way to the end of the book only to realize that someone (probably the previous asshole owner) has ripped out the very last page.
You might think the suspense of not knowing how this book ends would be agonizing, that I would be running to Powells to pick up the nearest copy and finish the book off as soon as possible.
And it's ironically fitting because this book is sort of all about not caring.
I think we can all identify with the overwhelming apathy of Frank Bascombe, however, at the end of the day, books about people who don't feel anything aren't that interesting.
Short version: SAD WHITE MIDDLE-AGED DUDE.
Long version: I enjoyed the first part of this book.
The dialogues were so stilted and so awful that I couldn't relax into the book any more, even when he was doing a perfectly nice job describing things -- anybody who talks with people the way Frank Bascombe talks to his girlfriend, his wife, his son, random dude at the hotel, whatever, is a person I don't trust.
1 part Richard Russo and 2 parts John Updike's Rabbit Series, this novel did not wow me.
At the end of the day, however, it's really just mundanity, and I believe Updike and Russo have been there, done that, and done it much better to boot.
Frank Bascome spends a good portion of the beginning of the book waxing poetic about how much he loves real estate.
Who wants to read a novel about real estate?
But I don't think reading the first one would have changed my opinion about the second...and I have no interest in immersing myself in Frank's tired world for another long book.
Have we really entered an era where novels don't tell stories? I don't mind some thoughtful digression from time to time but it seems some writers are more interested in showing off how profoundly sensitive and insightful they are. I got to page 17 and concluded this was a book whose function was to not to give me a narrative.
I thought the writing was fabulous. Not a word out of place. A worthy winner of the Pulitzer Prize.
I hated this book, a lot.
By the end of this pretentious and utterly boring drivel, I think I got a whiff of the feeling the odious author was trying to convey, but it was far too little, and much too late, and all I could think was "I'm only 40 pages from the end, glory hallelujah!" How much did I hate this book?
Enough to write a longer review of it than most of the books that I do like.
I hated it so much that it took me two summers to finish it, with a very long, (better) book-filled break between.
This book won the Pulitzer Prize in 1996. Most books don't make me laugh but this one was very funny. The story is about everyday life and the importance of not taking yourself too seriously. Also, a good portion of the book takes place in Cooperstown, NY at the baseball hall of fame which is one of my favorite places. I give this book 5 stars.
Richard Ford es siempre maravilloso. Leer para entender en qué consiste no tener más remedio que crecer.
