https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42518.Bayou_Suzette
Reading this right now to the older girls. They beg to read it every night. Wonderful portrayal of childhood on the Bayou in Louisiana. It's leading us on some great reading rabbit trails...Louis Armstrong, Pirate Lafitte, etc.
Very good job.
Marteel wants very much to join Suzette's large Cajun family and become a white girl.
You can see how this plot wouldn't fly nowadays.Lenski portrays Marteel as a resourceful, brave, determined girl and is sympathetic to Indian culture: Marteel feeds the family alligator tail at one point, to everyone's amazement, and Papa Jules remarks, "Marteel, she smarter'n I t'ink." And the main conflict-producing plot element--Marteel's stealing of a doll that belonged to Suzette's dead sister--is explained in terms of Indian culture: "[The Injuns] believe that when one person dies, another can come and take his place.
Bayou Suzette is the first in Lois Lenski's American Regional Series.
In today's world of cookie cutter towns with all the same eateries and shops, Lenski's books give the flavor and essence of regions in our country when they were unique only 60 years ago.
(Link to her bibliography.)Suzette is the irrepressible daughter of a large Creole family living in a small town amid the Mississippi Delta.
Suzette has plenty of strong willed gumption which alternates between adventure and defiance.I was captivated on every page of this lively story.
As with Lenski's other regional books, this one was interesting, surprising, and rather heartbreaking. This story illustrated life in a very poor community where life is not easy, floods are all too common and judgement runs rampant. Suzette makes friends and eventually becomes "sisters" with an orphan native American girl who no one wants-- not even the members of her own tribe. I would say this was an enjoyable read but it was enlightening.
If you loved Lenski's Strawberry Girl or Indian Captive as a child, you will love Bayou Suzette. Lenski accurately portrays early twentieth century Cajun life, culture, and dialect through the story of a young girl living on a bayou in coastal Louisiana. I thoroughly enjoyed Suzette's adventures - alligator hunting, surviving a flood, and spending All Saints Day in the cemetery with her family, among others.A must-read for children (and adults, too) who love historical fiction! And while I'm on that topic - if you like reading Louisiana history, check out The Diary of Marie Landry, Acadian Exile. :)
Long before "Swamp People" Suzette Durand and her family were scratching out a life in Bayou Barataria. Lenski's look at the joys and dangers of Louisiana life is fascinating. Some of the attitudes in this book are dated, but that just makes it all the more interesting to read. At first I found the dialogue a little tough to read because of the dialect, but I found myself adapting quickly to the speech and rooting for Marteel, the misunderstood Native American girl, that Suzette befriends despite the misgivings of her family.
Did not like this one as much as others in this series of life around America.
I'm binge-reading Lois Lenski's regional series. This is set in south Louisiana in early 20th century.
