https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60463.The_Empty_House
A sweet, short, but very satisfying Pilcher novella. Her gorgeous descriptive powers at their best, she takes us once more to Cornwall and the sea. She makes me want a small cottage and a large country kitchen and a garden full of wildflowers. And, of course, a rugged handsome fellow to sweep me off my feet.
One of Pilcher's best novellas! There is so much atmosphere and a wonderful magical feeling in this story. It really sweeps you away to a wondrous place (unless you happen to live by the sea in Cornwall already) and her descriptive style really shines here. The story was sweet and charming and the characters endearing.
I usually don't like to do spoiler reviews, but so great is my rage at this book, that I am going to do it.So..."The Empty House" follows Virginia Keile.
This book really just goes into the backstory of Virigina and her love interest Eustace.I hated almost every character in this one except for the kids and the poor mother in law.
I just cannot.The book tries to paint Virginia as a victim to her mother and dead husband, but I had zero sympathy for her.
3.5/5 Ενα μικρο βιβλιαρακι με μια γρηγορη ιστορια. Δε θεωρω πως ειναι το καλυτερο της Πιλτσερ αλλα ενταξει κυλισε ευχαριστα. Ειναι μια ιστορια χιλιογραμμενη σε πολλα βιβλια. Δε μου εδωσε αυτο το κατι παραπανω.
οχι απο τα καλυτερα της ....παρολα αυτα με ηρεμησε και ξαναγυρισε η ορεξη για διαβασμα
Rosamunde Pilcher always makes me want to crawl into the pages of her books and live there. She is just the best. No one writes books like this anymore.
Because, although there were hard questions here (e.g. about a self-reliance, a motherhood) the narration made me feel whole (not like with some other books - broken into pieces).It was disturbing, this awareness of the past, but somehow elemental, and so not really frightening.I give it 4 instead 5 stars because as I wrote there wasn't enough time for evolving of love and the whole idea for the story could have made a longer book, e.g. we could have seen also more interaction between Virginia and her children, more of children at all, more of her becoming herself.By the by, Eustace Phillips became one of my favorite heroes from romances.
This was a good, quick, clean romance.
The reason I gave it four stars instead of five is I felt that Pilcher didn't spend enough time establishing why the main characters connected in the first place.
In order to have a good romance, an author has to establish the sparks between the characters.
It almost seemed like Pilcher needed to get this one done quick and didn't have time to really fill out the wonderful plot she set up.
Overall, this is a good book to read on a sick day if you want to start and end a romance in one day.
It's the perfect length for this story.It's more than just the usual current modern "coming of age" woman's tale (as if having sex and being adult in work or school decisions even approaches true adulthood LOL!) but much more.
Remember, it's not just class distinctions but the fact that women in large percentages never worked outside the home or were far from sphere of family influences, and the young mothers of Virginia's class- never.
How the ones who love you the most (and have your real best future and not just your good will in mind) if they DO care for you- will then and often tell you the truth that you don't want to hear.
Delightful!
I really liked this!
Rosamunde Pilcher gave her heroine a second chance at happiness which made me think of scripture, "Your sorrow shall be turned into joy." I do wish this had been a little longer, it's really a novella, but it's sheer romance.
The next time I read this, I will bake a batch of scones on a rainy morning and dive right in!
Pilcher always includes such lovely descriptions of the Cornish coast, gardens and delicious sensory details.
I just seem to go off in a trance every time I pick up one of her books.
A lovely house, a handsome husband, and the children.
The children were worth everything..."Virginia Keile is recuperating from the death of her husband.
Left to cope with a young son and daughter, she is given the gift of a vacation away in Cornwall, with her children cared for by their nanny at her in-laws home in Scotland.
(What woman would not want a carefree vacation in Cornwall?) But Virginia is unhappily coming to terms with unpleasant memories.
Come and have a cup of tea or coffee -- something to warm you up before you go home.""The Empty House" is pure escapism.
I read it in around 3 hours while waiting around and travelling home on the train.Written in 1973 and first published in 1990, Pilcher's style of writing will no doubt not be fast-paced enough for the modern younger reader, but those of us who are rather longer in the tooth will be able to appreciate the delicate development of the quite traditional story.
True to it's time, "House" is rich in imagery, more so than modern books,but fortunately not so much that one would skip pages!Virginia, widowed only three months, has been pressured to marry at eighteen by her intimidating mother, then to "turn a blind eye" by her husband.
A widow returns to Cornwall to recover from the 'flu. She feels that her mother-in-law and her children's Nanny are running her life, and decides to rent a rundown house and bring the children there for the month of August. She also meets a farmer that she had fallen in love with at 17, he lives close to her rented house and has still not married ten years later.An early Rosamunde Pilcher, it is not as good as the later ones, but is still a good read.
Αν και θα ήθελα λίγο περισσότερο -όπως σε όλα τα βιβλία της άλλωστε, γιατί δεν τα χορταίνω ποτέ- μου πρόσφερε ακόμα ένα σίγουρο ταξίδι! Δεν περίμενα τίποτα λιγότερο από μια εξαιρετική συγγραφέα!!! Έπιασα τον εαυτό μου –μετά την ολοκλήρωση του βιβλίου– να αναζητώ πτήσεις και καταλύματα για Κορνουάλλη, με αποτέλεσμα να βρω ένα υπέροχο διαμερισματάκι με 32 ευρώ την ημέρα...
Seems like it will be some kind of a love story, but that's ok and it seems to be pretty smoothly written.
My book is a hardcover large print edition from 1973.I almost finished last night, but had to hit the sack.
She's been doing pretty well so far, but love messes with one's head.
There might be a bit too much of THAT, but the book's pretty short so I can't complain.
Now they have another chance - how's going to turn out?- Reminds me a bit of my sister's post-divorce struggles.- The kids are written very well.
Twenty-seven yr old Virginia Keile has come to Porthkerris on vacation while her two children are in London with her mother in law and the Nanny.
The last time Virginia was in Porthkerris was ten years before.
Because her mother didn't approve, the relationship was never allowed to develop and she was whisked back to London for her coming out year.
Rather than face the social scene, Virginia married Anthony Keile and moved to Scotland.
She asserts herself with her mother in law and the nanny and returns to Porthkerris to a small cottage rented for the month, which just happens to border Eustace's farm.
Why was this so short?
It finished just as it was getting really interesting!
Actually, although it is a gentle, quick and easy read, this novella is beautifully and skilfully written; this is the Rosamunde Pilcher I have grown to love.
The romantic thread, and the plot as a whole, were extremely simple, but what made it so endearing were the descriptions.
Yes, I know, one doesn't usually like a book full of descriptions, a weak plot and a heroine who does everything she's told to do, but this one is different.
You can see the landscapes in your mind's eye, feel the atmosphere changing, understand the heroine's inner turmoil.
The story revolves around Virginia, recently widowed, who is taking a break with an old friend in Cornwall.
All she wants is a quiet, simple existence with her children in a relaxed environment.
This book is a sort of growing-up for Virginia as she starts to take control of her life.
Yet it's a delightfully told story, with the people totally believable, right down to Virginia's two small children.
Recommended to anyone who wants a couple of hours of gentle escapism without anything challenging.Re-read in 2014 and it felt like a new book all over again.
It's been sitting on my desk for a month or so.
This book was excellent!!
It was way too short!
It was really good but there was not enough detail--it was way too short!
Pilcher mentions Porthkerris so often in her books that I can feel a European trip coming on!
There's something about the way Pilcher describes an English kitchen.
The big hearth with hooks for pots, the windows with geraniums sitting in them, the well scrubbed wooden table, the low ceiling with beams, the smell of peat.....
Gostei, embora depois de ter lido "Os Apanhadores de Conchas" não possa dizer que seja Rosamund Pilcher no seu melhor...No entanto é um bonito romance de amor, mudança, segundas oportunidades... suave, ternurento... com belas descrições da Cornualha!
Much too short for my taste. Just when I was really enjoying it, it was over.
A sweet story about love and life!
This book is about getting a second chance.It is known that every girl has to have one unhappy love affair before she finally meets the right man and settles down and gets married.
It is already too late before she realises her mistake but God give her second chance.
This time, she is strong and doesn’t want to repeat that mistake.The reason I am only giving 2 stars is because I thought an author spent too much time describing something, which is not relevant to the story.
Story is good but not memorable.
My interest was piqued, but I decided that I would read a shorter novel by Pilcher to get a taste of her brand of fiction before getting too invested.
If anything I've ever read can mirror my own style and themes in the slice-of-life feel-good fiction that I myself write, than Rosamunde Pilcher is it.
'The Empty House' felt life an English version of my own 'Clark's Turning Leaf', but with a female protagonist instead of a male.
I'm not really possessed of the audacity to compare myself or my writing to Pilcher's, but I was just awestruck at reading such a kindred spirit and a kindred work.
While I love this author's other books, this one was horribly annoying because of the extremely condescending and lecturing male love interest.
The presumption that he had the right to lecture her over how to carry on after the death of her husband when he barely knew her (but of course he had instantly fallen in love with her and was still waiting for her to come back) was supremely aggravating.
I love Rosamunde Pilcher's settings. She has a relaxing style and her heroines are Mary Stewart-lite. BUT this 27-y-o woman with two children (whom she has never really looked after, since mother-in-law and nannie have taken charge) meets a man-she-met-once-as-a-teen. Three meetings later... they decide they're destined to be together. I can't imagine many young men would want to marry a woman-and-two that suddenly! It's really more of a 2 1/2.
Probably one of my favorite of the shorter Rosamunde Pilcher books...Another reviewer called it a "gentle" story and I really like that description of her books in general. I am a fan of her writing.I love the setting of Cornwall, and how she describes everything. I can picture it all in my head. Yes, it's probably a stretch to think things could really happen like this. But, you WANT to believe it could!!A must-read for Pilcher fans!!
She is my favorite author.
υπέροχη ποιητική και ρομαντική Ρόζαμουντ Θεωρώ ότι γράφει εξαιρετικά.!!!!
This was a short and sweet romance story about a 27 year old woman becoming aware of who she wants to be, taking charge of her life, and owning a sense of independence for the first time.
She has left her two children behind, 6 year old Nicholas, and 9 year old Cara, with her mother-in-law, Lady Keile, and their nanny.
But her domineering and controlling mother, Rowena Parson, whisked her back to London when she sensed a romance developing from a chance encounter between Eustace and Virginia down by the docks.
The Pilcher books I have read always pull at my heart strings.
I loved the interaction between Eustace and Virginia's children.
Mi erano piaciuti tantissimo, tanto che volevo prenderne di altri...solo che ho fatto passare più di una decina d'anni, fino a quando il mese scorso ho scovato questo libro su uno scaffale semi vuoto :(e l'ho preso senza pensarci!!Mi è sembrato completamente diverso il suo modo di scrivere, ricordavo una sensazione più coinvolgente nelle storie e nei dialoghi.
"Io" non sarei stata così forte e avrei di sicuro lasciato perdere!Forse la storia sarà semplice e lineare, per qualcuno persino banale: facile prevedere come finirà tra Virginia e Eustace.
come scrivevo qualche riga sopra, il mio carattere non è così deciso come vorrei: un pizzico di coraggio per cambiare un poco alla volta.
