https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37100.Devil_in_a_Blue_Dress
And what secrets is Daphne Monet carrying?Devil in a Blue Dress is a throwback to the pioneers of noir like Hammett, Chandler, and Cain.
DeWitt Albright is a sociopathic villain, the most frightening kind, and Easy's pal Mouse isn't much higher on the food chain.Easy is a conflicted character, not wanting to get too deep into the web of murder surrounding Daphne Monet but unable to stop himself.
He's unhinged but likes Easy enough to follow him anywhere as long as Easy doesn't get in his way.Owing to its early noir roots, the case is suitably serpentine.
Devil in a Blue Dress introduced Walter Mosley's hero, Ezekiel (Easy) Rawlins to the reading public.
But this is a slightly different perspective because Easy happens to be a black man.
Daphne has a penchant for black men, and haunts the world of dusty underground bars and hole-in-the-wall jazz joints Easy knows all too well.Finding her may not be Easy's only problem, however, as someone is out to kill him, prompting him to employ his old pal, Mouse, to watch his back while he investigates.
There is murder here, and greed, and something Easy has seen way too much of, even for a black man in post WWII Los Angeles -- sorrow.
I can't wait to get to the second Easy Rawlins.
The best thing about this novel was the ambiance and the character of Easy Rawlins.
I recommend Devil in the Blue Dress to anybody looking for a detective novel with a little something else.
This detective novel takes place in 1940s California with all the fear a black man living in that time period might have to go through.
Having lost his mortgage, Rawlins accepts a job to look for a white woman who hangs in"black" bars.
Rawlins feeling pressured to take the job does and the mystery kicks off.....
But Dewitt's a businessman with a simple job for Easy-- he offers him a hundred dollars to find a white girl known to hang out in the African-American community.
There was no way out but to run, and I couldn't run, so I decided to milk all those white people for all the money they'd let go of."His detective work takes him around various hangouts in L.A, including Ricardo's, a rough bar that you don't go into without an inside man.
That’s enough to pay his bills, and even though Albright makes Easy extremely nervous, he doesn’t see another way to keep his house.Easy begins looking for Daphne, but he quickly finds himself the target of cops, rich white men and a dangerous hijacker.
Mosley did a superior job of recreating the world of Watts in 1948 and it’s a lot of fun to read about Easy moving through this environment.Mouse is also a great twist on the classic Bad-Ass-Criminal-Friend concept you see in most detective books.
Ezekiel "Easy" Rawlins is a proud and unapologetic black man in 1940s Los Angeles.
He has just been laid off from his factory job because he let his independence show too openly toward his white supervisor.
Because the bartender vouches for him, Easy takes the job.
What is this job?
Easy isn't happy that his old friend showed up uninvited, but it turns out to be a good thing that he did.
And with Mouse around, Easy doesn't have to get his hands dirty.Easy Rawlins is a character we can root for.
Having read Raymond Chandler’s The Big Sleep earlier this year, it’s easy to make the comparison to this novel, Devil in a Blue Dress, by Walter Mosley.
After all, they’re both hard-boiled crime novels, both set in Los Angeles in the 1st half of the 20th century, and both debut their famous private-eye protagonists, Philip Marlowe and Easy Rawlins, who would appear in multiple novels, and even on the big screen.
Easy Rawlins pwas an African-American living in the Watts neighborhood of Los Angeles in the late 1940s.
Ezekiel "Easy" Rawlins is a young black WWII veteran who has lost his job and is eager to jump at an opportunity when a shady businessman hires him to locate a pretty white woman named Daphne Monet, who is known for gettin' her party on at black nightclubs.This is not only one of the best debut detective novels, but also features what I think is one of the best literary characters, especially in the detective genre.
I think that Easy is a wonderful character and dissimilar to other noir detectives in a number of ways.
Devil in a Blue Dress is an excellent hard-boiled mystery. It is also a fascinating examination of race and masculinities in late-1940s Los Angeles. That it manages to do both these things at the same time, seamlessly, is little short of breathtaking. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here. In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
4.5 starsThis is the first book in the Easy Rawlins series.
I have been reading rave reviews of Mosley's Easy Rawlins series for years.
He is offered $100 to find a white woman who likes to frequent black bars and listen to jazz.
Dewitt Albright explains that he can't go in to these bars and ask questions, because he is a white man.
Easy realizes that Albright is a dangerous man, but he needs the money and takes the job.Easy does find her, but several people die and he is a suspect in the murders.
Devil in a Blued Dress on the other hand, is a perfect example of why Walter Mosley is such a respected and widely read author.
I knew that Easy Rawlins is a beloved character and that the entire series is well loved and widely read, but I was not expecting Mosley to deliver such rich and complicated characters that would get me excited to see just how deep Mosley is going to dig in future books.
Yeah, THIS is Easy's reality." Mosley is another author that I am kicking myself for not getting read sooner in my life.
It revolves around Easy Rawling, An African-American WWII veteran who has recently lost his job and is desperate to pay the mortgage or he'll lose his house (his sense of pride).
So, when He's approached by a white man named DeWitt Albright who offer him a job with a quick cash, he eagerly accepts.
Albright want him to find a white young woman called Daphne Monet, who likes to hang out in the African-American neighborhood.
Easy starts asking people around and manages to locate the girl's whereabouts and to get his money.
So he starts digging to find the killer and get out of this mess.
"That girl is the devil," says Easy Rawlins of his femme fatale: "She got evil in every pocket." And that's why I love noir.Walter Mosley has such a natural feel for the tropes of noir that I didn't realize he'd written it in 1990, instead of 1948 when it's set.
(Chester Himes pioneered African American noir with 1957's A Rage in Harlem, which is an awesome book.)The law generally plays an antagonistic role in noir, so it's kindof a natural fit for black people.
There's another black phenomenon that fits naturally with noir, but it's kindof a (view spoiler)[: passing, the art of passing for a white person.
She's a real humdinger and I like 'em like that.Shorty Long and William "Mickey" StevensonThe story of a man hired to find a mysterious woman is an old one and it takes a special writer to make it seem fresh and exciting.
I think Mosley has succeeded here with his first Easy Rawlins mystery.
Money paid the rent and fed the kitty.
"She got evil in every pocket."I was not looking to start a new series, but I think there's going to be at least one more Easy Rawlins book in my future.

I then proceeded to listen to an audiobook about the way that slavery was continued though WWII (just called something else).
Easy is such a vivid character to me, and I loved him.
I also loved Mouse, and Easy and Mouse's relationship.
I loved seeing their relationship through Easy's eyes, and how uncomfortable he was with Mouse's unpredictability and volatility, but at the same time valuing and counting on this man's friendship and loyalty.
But otherwise, I really enjoyed following along with Easy while he got sucked into this web of craziness and intrigue and murder, and I'm definitely interested in continuing on with the series.
The best of noir.This book was Mosley's introduction of his character, Ezekiel "Easy" Rawlins.
He is a black man who had been raised in Houston and he had joined the army to fight Nazis during the war.
He fought his way through the rest of the war, including at the Battle of the Bulge, and returned home to Houston, but like many African-Americans in the South during that period, he found the atmosphere stifling and chose to move on.
It seems that Easy's friend has paved the way for this man to offer him a job.
What a pleasant surprise it was that, after a shaky first half (this seems to be a reoccurring curse for first-time private-eye mystery writers across the decades), this novel revealed itself to be such an atmospheric and vital addition to what is unabashedly my favorite genre niche!
Neither of those works lingered long in their wholly "non-white" realms (unlike Robert Crais's Free Fall, a well-meaning but cringe-worthy attempt at exploring South Central LA of the early 1990's), but the sense of otherness was clearly established.
I appreciated that the main character is not (in this first book of the series, anyway) a detective. I love the suspense of mysteries, but I prefer stories about regular people, not professionals (there are exceptions to this). This was very good.
But he's perhaps best known for the "Easy Rawlins" mysteries the first of which is the very beautiful, haunting Devil in a Blue Dress which was also turned into a film starring Denzel Washinton.This book is gorgeous.
As this is the first Easy novel there are so many characters being introduced (about half of whom don't make it to the end) I think you can be forgiven for losing the forest for the trees.
Men spin tales of the haunting devil in the blue dress who captures the hearts and loins of every man who meets her.Easy is a fantastic character and narrator.
Mosley’s Devil in a Blue Dress is several things: social commentary about race relations and prejudices during this time period, noir with voice-over from antihero, crime tale with twists, tension and suspense.
Money is also a recurrent theme, a prime motivator for many characters, and Easy falls prey to this lure as well.
Amid the diversity of Los Angeles, we see antihero Easy Rawlings , as he returns from the war, struggling to claim his piece of the American Dream, even if it only to pay next month’s mortgage.
From Easy’s voice over, we follow his pursuit of this mysterious woman, as he goes through seedy places and characters.
It would be wrong to dismiss the uniqueness of that in this genre but I don't think that is what makes this special, it is the quality of writing and the authors knowledge of his era.I saw the movie a while ago and didn't realise it was a book first but I don't recall any of the qualities of the book being present, which is a shame as there are plenty of these Rawlins books to produce great quality noir from.
The hero is Easy Rawlins, an out of work black war veteran.
The mortgage payment's coming due, so Easy accepts the assignment of finding Daphne Monet, a blonde torch singer with a penchant for jazz and criminal black consorts.
Just curious.) Easy Rawlins is a black man getting by in LA after the war.
When our man finds out that Coretta is dead and certain other parties seem interested in locating Daphne, LA becomes a dangerous place for a black man who can either be a patsy for the police and framed for the death of Coretta or a casualty at the hands of Allbright if Easy doesn’t come through for him.
I don't know how I feel about this one.
It was much more tell than show; this made it go by very quickly and events or reveals of information that were important kind of felt anticlimactic.
Easy wasn't necessarily a main character I was rooting for either—I sympathized with his situation but also didn't agree with some of his choices and the way that the author doesn't even grapple with Easy's choices at times.
Again, it just sort of happens and then moves on without much contemplation.
I'm not sure I will continue with this series, but I'm glad to have finally read something by Mosley.
Devil in a Blue Dress was Walter Mosley’s debut novel.
It’s a private eye novel set in Los Angeles in 1948.
What makes Devil in a Blue Dress different is that this private eye, Easy Rawlins, is black.
It’s hard not to like Easy Rawlins.
In other ways though he’s a long way from the stereotypical tough guy private eye.
In this first novel Rawlins isn’t yet a professional private investigator.
Devil in a Blue Dress is a superb first novel – I’ll be looking for more of Mosley’s Easy Rawlins mysteries.
This was a great book however, due to circumstances beyond my control, I read it in short time sequences and spurts.
And certainly, the ending, that in itself deserves the fourth star.This was a first time effort for Walter Mosley in 1990 who is now an established and well respected author.His protagonist, Easy (Ezekiel) Rawlins is such a great character and one which I like because down deep, he’s ‘pure of heart.’ He strives to do the right thing (a big thing with me) and expects others around him to do the same.
That would be Easy Rawlins and the whole series of books connected with him, of which 'Devil in a Blue Dress' is the first.I have to say this is not a genre I would typically enjoy and perhaps that is why it didn't come alive for me.
That isn't to say I won't be reading more Mosley- the character of Rawlins is interesting enough to see where he is taken next.
Woah. Phenomenal, tightly spun noir with cutting prose. A master class in character introductions, too—Mouse! Love the funhouse mirror parlor scene at city hall. Really, really great work. Eager to read the next volume.
Really two and a half stars. I liked this more for the main character and the setting than for the mystery. It was interesting to see LA in the 1940s through the eyes of a black man living there during that time.
This is noir that knows what it's looking at, and with less tunnel vision than some white bloke in a mackintosh.
That's a product of more recent storytelling than the 1950s - the oldest example I can recall of crime fiction that uses the investigation framework to talk about the state of society is Roseanna, which was written in 1965.
So, while not really like Roseanna in its execution, the fingerprint (if you will) of Devil in a Blue Dress is in some ways far more up-to-date than Chandler could ever manage.
