https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1553589.Inside_the_Whale_and_Other_Essays
Para mim, uma (ainda) desconhecedora da ficção de Orwell, esta introdução à sua escrita (de carácter exclusivamente jornalístico), acicatou a minha vontade de mergulhar mais profundamente na sua obra. Destaque para o ensaio "Como morrem os pobres", uma "peça jornalística" em que Orwell relata a sua experiência enquanto paciente internado num hospital público de Paris.
"Il nazionalismo è sete di potere frammista a illusione. Ogni nazionalista è capace della più atroce disonestà ma è anche – in quanto consapevole di servire qualcosa più grande di lui – incrollabilmente certo di essere nel giusto." (Appunti sul nazionalismo, p. 169)"Il fatto è che non appena entrano in gioco la paura, l'odio, la gelosia e l'adorazione del potere, il senso della realtà viene stravolto. […] Quando si tratta di lealtà a un'idea, la pietà viene meno." (ivi, p. 183)
کتاب همانطور که از نامش پیداست مجموعه مقالاتی از جورج اورول است هرچند یکی از مقالاتی که در کتاب اصلی

Franco'dan edebiyata, oradan soğuk savaşa, oradan tekrar edebiyata oradan Antisemitizme geçiş yapılıyor ve açıkçası bu beni rahatsız etti. En azından ikiye ayrılıp edebi eleştiriler ve siyasi makaleler olarak iki bölüm yapılabilirdi. Sonuçta özellikle siyasi makaleler üzerinde düşünmeyi gerektiren ve zihni fazla çalıştıran unsurlar ama eleştiriler göreceli olarak daha keyif veren yazınlar. 1-2 kısa hikayesini çok beğendim, eleştirileri hoşuma gitti ama diğer makalelerde boğdu.
Nine essays, each one a gem. From the deconstruction of what makes a great novel, an almost homo-erotic homage to miners, the savaging of Tolstoy's distaste of the Bard, to the Political mangling of the language and how we are conditioned to kow-tow to the moneyed classes, Orwell's precisioned contempt shines through. Also included is the masterpiece 'Shooting an Elephant' - an uneasy, tragic, and disheartening account of imperialism in action. Invaluable.
Ədəbiyyatı olduqca gözəl şərh edib. O şərhlərdən yola çıxaraq, George'n dahi yazar deyil, bir analitik olduğunu düşünürəm. Oxuduğum əsərlərində də daima ətrafı olduğu kimi əks etdirməyə çalışması, sistemə münasibət bildirən xarakterlər yaratması və müxtəlif təbəqələri anlamaq üçün onlar tək yaşamaq kimi çılğınlıqlar etməsi bunu göstərir.
Balinanın karnı, insanın dış etkilerden korunarak, her şeyden habersiz,kaygısızca yaşayabildiği bir metaforu temsil ediyor. Etkileyici bir fikir.Antisemitizm ve milliyetçiliğe ilişkin tespitler dikkat çekici
"Inside the Whale" offers a wide menu where, say, childhood memories stand cheek to cheek with a bittersweet analysis of Gandhi and literary criticism on Koestler, Swift, Tolstoy lies in between a "pop" essay regarding the different British teenager magazines of the 1930s and a sort of bucolic elegy of the toad (!).Then we have the pedantic eccess of Orwell who sometimes indulged a bit too much in quantifying his own work and life in mathematical terms (Oh my dad would have liked this!) counting how much he spent for his own book collection including what he borrowed or was given or never gave back and demonstrating that reading is a less expensive pastime than smoking cigarettes.
Orwell'ın romanlarını olduğu kadar denemelerini de okumayı çok seviyorum. Bu kitap da birkaç denemesinden oluşmakta. Aralarında çok da beni cezbetmeyen denemeler olduğu için 5 puan veremedim ama hepsi Goodreads yüzünden, neden 0.5 puanları yok ki... Bu kitabın için en sevdiğim deneme ise Balinanın Karnında oldu. Kİtabın en uzun denemesi aynı zamanda da en çok bilgi yüklü olanıydı. Üniversite zamanıma geri dönmek, edebi dönemleri dekrar işlemek istedim. Üzerine de birçok not düştüm zaten. Orwell yine söyleyeceklerini hiçbir şekilde sakınmamış. Kesinlikle çok güzel bir kitaptı.
David Bowie’s Formative Reading List of 75 Favorite Books#57
Some of these essays are brilliant, and some of them are crazytalk. I like all of them better than Orwell's fiction. Seems to be a running theme at the moment.More to follow.
The first, on Henry Miller and his Tropic of Cancer, suffered a little from the fact that I've never read Miller and so lacked a literary context, but Orwell's method of talking around a book instead of on it is enough to follow along, and I enjoyed the sheer breadth of his critical review here.
All I can think reading this was that it's a pity Orwell's not around today to do a follow-up - it would be interesting to see what he thought of Ms Marvel, for instance, and how she compares with Billy Bunter as a mirror for a wanted world.
Actually, I was not enjoying reading the 'Inside the Whale' itself, but I love the "Politics vs. Literature: An Examination of Gulliver's Travels","Politics and the English Language" and "The Prevention of Literature". Definitely, his thought, that is poured in the form of essay, at that time, is brilliant.
I didn't enjoy the literary criticism, or the commentaries on socialism and fascism; the best part by far is the short essay "Shooting an Elephant." In this story, picks apart the hypocrisy's of imperialism by analyzing his experiences in Burma, in which he was driven to shoot an elephant in order to avoid looking foolish; an excellent metaphor for power.
Sufficiently inspired that I've gone out and bought a host of other Orwell books and essays, beyond Animal Farm, 1984 and Down and Out in London and Paris, and have begun reading them now. When I read these essays, I feel like Orwell is speaking truth and truth to power, if I can say both. So many things he says are so clear, and they dissect a number of (then) ongoing orthodoxies.
İspanya iç savaşından Tolstoy'un Shakespeare eleştirisine, İngiliz serserilerinin günlük yaşamlarından Huxley, Poe gibi yazarların değerlendirmelerine, antisemitizmden atom bombasına Orwell'in geniş bir yelpazedeki yazıları. İyi bölümlerden birisi Henry Miller üzerinden yaptığı kitaba adını veren edilgenliği anlatan balinanın karnında bölümü.
I bought this book mainly to read "In Defence of P.G. Wodehouse" and I enjoyed this essey very much. But I really fell in love with "The Spike", where Orwell writes about his one night spent in a workhouse. I really liked this book.
A bit dusty dated in places but i still found some of it interesting and particularly liked the chapters about the elephant and the boys comics.

I should expect to find- this is a guess which I have not sufficient knowledge ot verify- that the German, Russian, and Italitian languages have all deteriorated in the last ten or fifteen years, as a result of dictorship.""Look back through this essay, and for certain you will find that I have again and again committed the very faults I am protesting against." There's the conscious Orwell I have come to love!"...has nothing to do with grammar and syntax, which are of no importantce so long as one makes one's meaning clear...What is above all needed is to let the meaning choose the word, and not the other way about." "If you simplify your English, you are freed from the worst follies of orthodoxy.""this is true of all political parties, from Conservatives to Anarchists- is designed to make lies sound truthful and murder respectable, and to give an appearance of solidity to pure wind."The Prevention of Literature"The Catholic and the Communist are alike in assuming that an opponent cannot be both honest and intelligent.""Probably novels and stories will be completely superseded by film and radio productions.
After considering how to review Henry Miller's Tropic of Cancer, I found the title essay online and read that, so that is what I shall review.
I suppose that my present take on Tropic of Cancer, then, would be that the book is a classic for being the first of its kind (narcisissistic fictionalized memoirs of young "artists" behaving badly) and for being an authentic and somewhat reasonable response to the politicized chaos of the 1930s.
But from a modern perspective, its misogenism, its egotism, its cattiness lead me to kinda despise Tropic of Cancer -- especially in light of other, better confessional-memoirs that have followed in its wake.
I'll wait for when I read The Road to Wigan Pier.England Your England is a first rate attempt to understand "Englishiness." What makes this one accurate and tolerable is that Orwell does not go in for the usual platitudes one finds among vapid conservatives (especially today as the horror of British decline hangs over their heads).
In the main it is because Orwell is honest about Shakespeare's faults.
Could also be applied to understanding aristocratic societies, where the novel was far more limited.Boys' Weeklies is both a look at British teenage literature and in particular the shoddy conservatism of such pulp.
You can say many things about George Orwell, and one of those things is that he is a very engaging writer, regardless of whether or not you agree with what he's saying.It is interesting that a man who was most known in his own time for his essays and polemics and reporting, in our own is most known for his two Distopian anti-authoritarian works "Animal Farm" and "1984".
In questi suoi saggi ci sono le sue riflessioni e le sue esperienze: a scuola, a lavoro in una libreria, in ospedale, in guerra, in India.
Questo non vuol dire che cerchi di evitare giudizi, anzi li esprime, e si può non sempre essere d'accordo.Cos'altro colpisce?
Sì, perchè alla fine, a mio parere, George Orwell era un uomo semplice.
Un uomo che adora leggere e ha sempre saputo di voler scrivere fin da quando era un ragazzino.
Un uomo semplice, ma non tanto comune.
Perchè Orwell ha una capacità narrativa e un'intelligenza paragonabile con pochi.Caro Orwell, vorrei tanto che tu potessi in qualche modo tornare a vivere e a scrivere.
In questa raccolta traspare la consapevolezza orwelliana del carattere spesso cangiante della politica.
Allo stato attuale delle cose (quando egli scriveva nel ventre della balena) alcuni si comportano come fossero in balia della situazione, come fossero intrappolati nel ventre di un grande cetaceo, luogo nel quale non si può fare altro che assecondare i movimenti delle pareti organiche che ci intrappolano; l'unica via di salvezza è parteggiare, ma nessuno potrà mai assicurarci che le motivazioni che ci guidano siano ortodosse, se non nel contesto del nostro ragionamento personale.
Written in the 1930s, 40s and early 50s, first read by me in the 1970s, how do these essays stand up now, 2013?
Well, it's a mix.
The stand out piece was, and remains, "Politics and the English Language".
It begins by attacking writing that is lazy, cliche-bound.
"England Your England", "Down The Mine" and "Shooting An Elephant" are excellent writing too.The pieces that are what one might loosely call literary criticism ("Inside The Whale", "Lear, Tolstoy And The Fool" and "Politics vs Literature") appeal less, perhaps because they require greater familiarity than I have with the source materials that they criticize.
Post-colonial lit with a philosophical bent, which makes it easier to read. Brought forth ideas in a way I never thought about before and even if I don't agree with them, Orwell writes so well - I consider it.
though the title essay isn't particularly enthralling (mostly because i haven't read Tropic of Cancer), the others are wonderful. orwell's commentary and words of advice to writers are as penetrating, plainspoken, and worthwhile as his fiction.
Its definitely a five star though all the essays in this volume might not be equally engaging for all readers. However, some of them, such as Lear, Tolstoy and the Fool, England Your England and Shooting an Elephant are unarguably one of the best in genre.
