https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1032130.Mr_Sampath_the_Printer_of_Malgudi
Despite its long history and ancient traditions, India has produced few novelists.
In R.K. Narayan, however, India has produced a writer of stunning originality.
To me, he is India’s cousin to Sinclair Lewis.Although titled Mr. Sampath: The Printer of Malgudi, this story mostly revolves around a young journalist, Srivinas, who does all the writing for weekly newspaper that loses money despite a small, devoted following.
Mr. Sampath is one of his printers whose grandiose dreams lead to the creation of a movie production company that lives briefly on dubious dreams.
DNF at Chapter 8 :(This must be a critically acclaimed masterpiece!Never ever imagined I'd DNF a book by my favorite author.I didn't find the characters interesting, the narration was pretty dry, no signature humor, the plot was a mumble jumble of many things... and after a certain point, couldn't bear it any longer.The only experiment I loved here was the way the protagonist was being introduced ;)
I remember this with warm affection and made a note years ago to read more of RK Narayan who - in retrospect - from the perspective of my woozy memory - is like Rohinton Mistry's benign old uncle.
Back then I also read The Vendor of Sweets and The Painter of Signs which was my favourite because of a spiky back-chatty young woman called Daisy who was extremely charming.
But these are all 3.5 star books.
And I never did read any more.
So that must change...
Let that be one New Year Resolution I might actually enjoy doing.
Masterly narration by RK Narayan, though the reader is left wondering what happened to Ravi after he was sent to a temple for faith healing.

This was a strainful read for me. There were times more than once when I was tempted to abandon it but persisted as it was a paperback... Halfway through it became interesting and the last quarter went really fast.. But what and whom was the story about? "The title is rather misleading considering the fact that it is Srinivass story and not Sampaths entirely. The various mind ramblings and philosophical musings of Srinivas begot little interest in me..
This book is no different where he comes with another set up in Malgudi and creates another great story.
Funny, dramatic and filled with the finer emotions of human nature, Mr. Sampath made me smile all through and laugh out loudly at a few places.It is about a newspaper "The Banner" which comes up in Malgudi and the two main chracters who are responsible in bringing it out and the turn of events around them.
It has many other chracters which helps in setting it up and everyone is just perfect.
Though I have owned this book for a little over a decade, haven't read it in a while.
Honestly I don't remember what I felt the first time I read it 10 yrs ago.
This time around I was just hoping that Srinivas doesn't lose his head and doesn't ruin his family.
At every juncture I read with curiosity to find out what Srinivas thinks.
His inner struggle to maintain composure in face of the myriad of different situations he finds himself in, is beautifully portrayed.
Each major character in the story is well conceived that you cannot help feeling for them..
I got an early edition of this book and read the tattered brown pages with unwavering interest. As always, RK Narayan knows how to weave a story. Mirthful and philosophical, Mr. Sampath is a portrait of a man who embodies our struggles to survive in life.
His wit becomes apparent from the very first Chapter, wherein he says about the Banner, "Within twelve pages of foolscap it attempted to set the world right." Among my favorite lines are, "He felt, with an extravagant seriousness, that a whole civilization had come to an abrupt stalemate because its men had no better basis of living than public opinion.", " What great human forces meet and come to grips with each other between every sunrise and sunset!" and others.
There is one common thread that I always find in all the RK Narayan books, which I have read so far.
Well, the characters like daisy(The painter of Signs), rosy (The guide) followed by shanti here in this book , are the best instances to talk about.
Personally speaking, looking at the outline of these characters, I have the deepest anger and contempt to the life they live for.
But again putting myself in their shoes, i felt it needs a lot of courage to live such a life.
All a whole , this is one another master piece of RK NARAYAN,
"By R K Narayan" is all it takes for me to decide how good a book is.
I might sound like a fanatic to some, but so far I have not come across a single literary work of R K Narayan that has not left me amazed.
Mr. Sampath, is a story of simple human beings full of all their follies and idiosyncracies.
Every single character is very well fleshed out and very easily relatable (at least for me).
At no time in the plot do you feel lost or feel that a plot point is unnecessary.
A definite must read.
Nicely written. It's based on four characters Mr. Sampath, Ravi, Mr. Somu and Srinivas. The novel is a dramatic page-turner and unpredictable in the beginning. It's the humor that pushes the story further. The dialogues are a great fun. The story is concluded in a nice way and many readers will adore this masterpiece for a long time.
Very very good. Beautiful writing full of humour and compassion. A real gem.
This novel is mainly about the life of ' The Banner' a weekly newspaper and the hands behind this newspaper; it's editor Srinivas and it's printer Sampath.
One fine day, the whole staff of Sampath went on strike and ' The Banner' has to be closed down indefinitely.
Srinivas wrote scripts for the film but the way in which his script is handled made him disappointed and he wished for the revival of ' The Banner'.
Meanwhile the glamorous life that film gave got into Sampath's head and he began to forget his family and go after another lady, the actress in that movie.
An ingenious rendition of the Indian life! This is my introduction to R.K. Narayan and I can’t help but wonder how modern and forward his thoughts, almost half a decade ago. Alas, most descendants today clothed in ‘modern jeans’ are not even a billionth wise and open-minded as him..
Too much and too little going on at the same time. Too deep and too shallow just like the river of life.
To borrow a few thoughts from the testimonials included in this edition, John Updike compares him to Dickens for the impression of ‘colourful teeming’ conveyed by his fictional city of Malgudi, while someone else puts him in the same company as Jane Austen and Chekhov for managing to get across ‘the extraordinary ordinariness of most human happiness’.What I value most in him is his ability to hold human warmth and amused scepticism about all human motives in a constant and perfect balance.
Three of Narayan's Malgudi novels bound together: I am not quite sure of why these three in particular (there is no carryover of characters from one to the next), but it did make this a swell thing to find in the free box at work (I think one of my fellow buyers may have been having a bad day)."Mr. Sampath, The Printer of Malgudi" actually is the story of Srinivas, an earnest young man who arrives in Malgudi wanting to start a political journal that will improve his fellow humans.
But if we talk more about it, it gets even better.The most amazing thing about this book is the scent of India it leaves behind.
But just when you think he's living the dream, everything changes.There's an aha moment when Sampath is introduced.
Because when Sampath changes direction, things take a turn too.It's classics like these that leave a mark on the society when they look back to the culture we're trying to change.
The scent doesn't leave me now.If you like my reviews, please find more on my website: http://www.tushargargava.comThanks.
Owing to having lost his wife early and having the repressed and, therefore, non-expressive characteristics of the priestly class, R.K.N. shuns what he deems unnecessary and superfluous in his novels; see the epilogue section of The Talkative Man, for instance.
R.K.N.'s repressed characteristics come to the fore in his depiction of Shanti's beauty, Shanti being cast as Parvati in a film by Sunrise Productions and being the muse for Ravi's oil-painting and the alleged muse for the sketch.There are a couple of logical errors in the novel.
Mr.srinivas.THE PEACEMAKER OF MALGUDIthough the book reads Mr.sampath the printer of malgudi ,its sr

This book deals with such charm the characters of Sampath and Srinivas, who are two opposite poles by their nature, but bonded by something unexplainable. The words flow with such rapidness that we feel we might miss some intricate details. The decision made by Srinivas at the end is appreciable. As all Narayan novels, I am left with one unanswered question. What happened to Ravi??? Was he used only to bring in the character of Shanthi into limelight?
Masterful, one of the best writers I've ever come across. I read them over a few weeks, with other books in between, and ended with Waiting For Mahama last night. One feels one knows the characters, and I've come to feel as resident of Malgudi. Written in English by a master of the language, and thoroughly recommended. And a very nice edition too.
Quintessential of Narayan. An ordinary character from life doing not-so-extraordinary things. But the narration grips you; its simplicity amazes you. And after a couple of pages the writer has successfully transcended you into his make-believe. You don't give it up until the last page for you are too involved too let it go.
A novel that explores the philosophical as well as worldly sides of humanity. Sampath, who represents the worldly side, and Srinivas, who represents the philosophical side, act as perfect foils to each other. The story of Ravi and the landlord have been used as perfect vehicles to bring out the larger picture. Thoroughly enjoyed it.
The printer of malgudi , though fictional, teaches a great life lesson 'don't get involved' if you are not sure. Personally, this touched my heart and will recommend this book to anyone. It goes without saying that r.k. narayan is at his best always, spinning stories about complex human emotions. a must read.
The book has three novels, I only read the first one and most of the second one. The author is THE character developer of all time, we get to know everything a character thinks or does down to the exact number of buttons on his shirt. It seemed endless and I just couldn't take it.
spends most of its time cast between charybdis of meandering plots you don't really care about and scylla of twee bullshit but mr. sampath still seems like a cool guy to make a newspapre or bolly film w/.
