https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20759393-poison-princess
11 Oct. '14 For those who have read the 2nd book and can confirm things for me, here are my predictions on Endless Knight. 19 Oct. '12 Be forewarned! There shall be a lot of cussing and angriness and bitch-slapping in this review. If you are a fan of this book/author, or/and not a fan of cuss words in reviews, I highly advise you not to read as I do not want to offend anyone.**********Like an old, dying, rheumatic ox plowing through a field of mud and shit. All for the promises of a harvest of
If you are a fan of this book/author, or/and not a fan of cuss words in reviews, I highly advise you not to read as I do not want to offend anyone.**********Like an old, dying, rheumatic ox plowing through a field of mud and shit.
In excruciatingly painful detail we would be told of her last seven whole frigging days before the cataclysmic event that hit the entire planet.So that is thirteen chapters reading about her rich-girl life in her rich-girl school, with all the rich-girl brand names being splattered like rainbow gifs constantly in your face.
Go on, read it, and tell me why the hell knowing Brandon or Mel or even Evie's entire bloody life was important.
Unpopular opinion review time!You know how it goes: you loved this book, I didn’t.
I’m actually very much dismayed by that, because I stepped into this apocalyptic world with such an overall optimistic state of mind – hell, I expected my first book by Kresley Cole, a New York Times bestseller, to be a winner!Oh boy.
I was pretty much friends with everybody’’)- the jackass love interest who acts like a jerk around Evie but he’s so handsome, so handsome, so handsome, and no one can resist him.
Jackson agrees to protect Evie on her mission but as her visions get worse, she soon comes across other people who have been having the same call, and she realises she is not the only who is meant to play out their destiny.
Even after the flash, she tries to remain the same even though as Jackson points out on a number of occasions, she can't hunt, start fires or protect herself - but you know there's something bubbling under the surface of Evie and it's just waiting to be unleashed.
Young Adult???? Are Kresley Cole follow her dear friend's path, Gena Showalter to write YA? Ugh, less smex scenes! *shakesfist*And I want Thad! Please continue writing Immortals After Dark, rather than start new series.Please, I beg you :'(
You whore make me feel like wanna fuck you.
We fuck now.Evie: No. Woe is me.Jack: What be up with those drawings you did in diary?
Woe is me.Jack: I help you but I still hate you bitch.
Woe is me.Jack: You tell me your secrets bitch.
Woe is me.Jack : You whore tease bitch!
Woe is me.Jack: Me like new whore.
She be bitch and whore but all girl are.Evie: Go back to your other lady friend.
Woe is me.Jack: I help you whore.
Woe is me.Jack: You be a bitch, a slut and a whore.
Will Jack ever get to fuck Evie?
But then again, I'd probably be a lot like her (terrified, useless) if the apocalypse happened, so I could still relate to her.But the worst character was the love interest Jackson.
And with Evie he acts like a horny stalker, treats her like a possession, verbally abuses her, and pressures her to have sex with him throughout the entire book.An actual quote from Jackson (ARC, page 241): "Hell, Evie, you're probably the last girl on earth for me.
The author is definitely talented and has a lot of great stuff in this book, but Jackson completely ruins it.
They rumble up to their new school in a crowd of big, bad, wolfery and start chatting up and soliciting all the pretty girls.Aside from the dirt-poor, uneducated, rude Cajun stereotyping and the clichéd bad boys, nevertheless, I could have tolerated the minor absurdity if there had been some promise to a compelling story, but no.
I'm not going to waste my time.Here are a few quotes very early on in the story that made up my mind for me."Beside him was a couple on a bike—a kid in camo pants and a girl in a pleather miniskirt.
Instead, the twenty two cards of the Major Arcana tarot deck come to life—the Empress, the Magician, Death, etc., each of which possess unique powers and abilities—in a post-apocalyptic world.
After Flash, when the world has been ravaged by what could be solar flares (or not…), when anyone unlucky enough to be outside was turned into ash (or worse…), life is no longer easy and is filled with myriad hard limits.
It’s a very gritty and murky life for a teenager to be faced with.And, oh my goodness, does Evie have a lot to overcome.
It has, quite simply, ensnared my mind and my heart.And the second book cannot come out soon enough!
I had thought no one would ever take away his title has the most horrible YA love interest of all time, but apparently I was wrong.I'll just give you a list of what this guy is:- Arrogant- Selfish- Abusive- Violent- Perverted- Rude- A bully- Has no regards for the main character's feelings- Will sleep with any living thing that has a vagina- Controlling- Has anger issuesAny positive traits?
Like, "Let me take care of you, bébé." The author knew that girls love guys with accents.
At the beginning of her story, Evie has started to hallucinate weird things like burning people and Death calling her “Empress” and this red witch.
But she has to pretend to be totally normal because she's the typical unpleasant popular cheerleader stereotype.On the first day of school she's attracted to a brooding, motorcycle-riding new guy named Jack.
A good chunk of the first half of the book revolves around Evie’s friends continually telling her she has to sleep with Brand to keep him.
He’s obviously a catch.Then the flash/apocalypse comes (which looks like northern lights?) and all of Evie’s friends die.
"Come touch...but you'll pay a price. Story ⭐⭐⭐⭐When my wonderful friend Mary told me about a series that includes Tarot cards my interest was caught instantly. Tarot cards always had something mystic and mysterious about them that I loved. I started this book with high anticipation, lots of expectations and a really good mood. And first the book was awesome. It was a funny, entertaining book and Evie was an interesting character. But then the Flash happened and Evie became this whiny mess. And
Story ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️When my wonderful friend Mary told me about a series that includes Tarot cards my interest was caught instantly.
And then a lot of things happened and she met a lot of people and with every page near the end it got more interesting.Don’t get me wrong, I never really had a clue what’s going on or what would happen, but the love story and Evie as the main character made it “okay”.
Before the flash Evie had nightmares, delusions and hallucinations about people she never met that had magical powers and looked like tarot cards she saw at her grandmothers place.
Actual Rating:  2.5Did I like it? NoDid I hate it? NoSo what is it? No idea...I'm going out to the beach for the holidays and will think more about it lol And while I'm out, HAPPY EASTER GUYS!!!! Or not... But it's a great time to eat chocolate ;D
Ugh, no. DNF around 100 pages. This really is not my kind of heroine, romance, story, or crush. At all.
Litchick's internal monologue while reading this book...The Prologue: "No fecking way! First person POV of a serial killer? Neato, I can totally get down with that. Err...with the book. Not with the serial killer. That'd be weird. And judging by his thoughts, painful."Thirty pages later: "Zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz..."
Mellissa Bestie Warren  -	“Mel was over at my house, prepping me for date night because she felt the need to sluttify my outfit so I could stand a chance against Clotile’s “free-balling lady lumps.”-	Yep, that’s a quote-	“Eves, on the scale from wholesome to whoresome, you’re practically Amish.”-	 “So what are you going to do about Brandon’s hymen safari?”-	Nice to have a best friend that supports you in your choices, huh?
I’m sorry, but I did not find any redeeming qualities about the book, nor could I stand to read any more of this.
That was the most incredible pararomance I've read in a long time.
And now I'm wishing I would have waited until close to the 2nd book's release to read it because I want to still be in this story world seeing what will happen next!
I love how we got to see Evie's world before the Apocalypse and after.
I just really can't gush enough, and I can't find anything to complain about with this story.
It was right down my alley and exactly what I needed.But I'll warn you - if you don't like alpha male love interests, this might not be a story for you.
This review can also be found on my blog, Dana and the Books.Poison Princess surprised me.
I was not expecting to love it as much as I did or devour it as fast.The story started out with an insanely creepy prologue setting a dark tone from the start.
Yes, there were some stupidly cliched eye-rolling moments and a completely unnecessary and ridiculous romantic plot, but I enjoyed the overall journey Evie went through and her struggles to survive after the Flash.The writing was consistently good throughout with a great cast of characters bringing the story to life.
I’m still getting the chills thinking about this ‘Poison Princess!’Original Review posted here.Review:Can I just say that I love Kresley Cole?
Then just as you are getting settled into high-school life and Evie’s fight for sanity, the end-cometh and suddenly Evie’s hallucinations aren’t just in her head anymore.‘Poision Princess’ has a richly drawn out and complex plot which left me breathless as Cole sped me through scene after scene.
I’m quite familiar with Tarot decks and spent most of the book trying to figure out which card represented which character and I was rather impressed with Cole’s interpretation of the representations.
What the actual fuck was this book?
The beginning dragged on and I was honestly waiting for Jackson to become nice.
But the entire time he was a jackass.
A rude, drunk, mean, horny jackass.
And Evie actually cared about him??!!!
I have never hated a love interest before but Jackson changed that pretty quickly.
Evie is also very annoying.
And the way she allowed herself to be treated by Jackson, her boyfriend, hell even her friends was disgusting!
I had really good expectations for the book,but the way it dragged on bored me to death.
Evie, the main character, was a god damn bad ass.
A god damn poison princess bad ass.
Jackson, man I loved that mysterious guy.
Then there was Selena, god I did not like her in this book.
Matthew and Finn were interesting enough but I only really cared about Jackson and Evie.Then there was Arthur, oh Arthur.
Yet, it was such a god damn page turner, or page listener?, that I was so pumped to see how it was going to end.
Now I'm already listening to the next book because I'm hooked guys.Please pray for my ship.
1.5 stars‘Poison Princess’ was very strange from the beginning, and it doesn’t help that none of the main characters were very likeable.
The main character, Evie, was really bland, and despite all her freak outs I never really felt the depth of her emotions.
Somehow I ended up reading this book in one afternoon, so I guess readability is one thing that it has going for it, though I think I stuck with it more in a “WTF is going on here?!” kind of way, rather than genuine interest.
"The Empress doesn't get collared, or caged, or tortured. How artfully she beckons, how perfectly she punishes...." The Poison Princess is set in a post-apocolyptic world, where after a Flash of light that has wiped out most of the human race, turned others into blood-sucking zombies, cannibals and women raping militia, 22 children are chosen to re-enact a war that has been playing out since the dawn of time. Each a card in the Major Arcana, the trump cards in a Tarot deck, they must battle to
I didn't know much about Tarot card reading, yes I have been to a few back in the day at county fairs but since this story was set in Louisiana, full of magic and mysticism, I took the time to put the book down and actually look up all these cards and I was really fascinated with how she took the meaning of each character on the cards and brought them to life with supernatural powers that correlated to their meaning.
DNF 66%I think the main reason I kept reading this book, and ignored all the red flags was because of Jackson Deveaux.Jackson Deveaux, I love you.But Evie, was one of the stupidest, weakest and most annoying heroines I have ever read. Aside from that, I actually didn't get the point of the entire book. So it's the apocalypse and they're looking for Evie's Gran. Evie's disjointed visions got annoying. I don't know what else to say, I wasn't impressed I guess.
I have to say that I was impressed by KC’s ability to straddle the line between love and hate between Evie and Jackson.
I wasn’t sure how I would like Jack, but in the end, I found that there were great qualities in him as a character that I had to admire.The first half of the book explores Evie’s confusion.
But I have also read a few YA books and have to say that this one is a little more sexier than previous YA novels.
And also, with an ending like that, I definitely need my hands on the next book!
The CONCEPT of this book captured me more than the actual book, but if you like YA novels and interesting world-building, then you will definitely get into it. Tarot cards embody the main characters of this post-apocalyptic world. I liked everything but the main characters, actually. The main dude in particular I wasn't drawn to, but the plot was SUPER interesting and concept really strong. I really want to see where this goes! Read this for Vaginal Fantasy.
WHAT...! THE...! HELL...! 4.5 - Bouncing between 4 and 5. Have to give it some thought.Okay, so I was a little hasty about the rating right after I finished the book. The  prologue was definitely a hooker.  And the  end was so explosive  that it made me literally yell out, "What?!? I can't believe that was the end!!!" To the point that I had forgotten that  I DID have problems with this book early on. So my true verdict a week later? Maybe 3 for the first half, and 5 for the last part. My review
My review IS long, so if you don't want to read the whole thing, here's my summary: (view spoiler)[GOOD•Cool concept regarding tarot.•Creative integrating of concept with characters involved.•Likeable main character, and swoon-worthy male interest.•Awesome start, and even more awesome end.•Interesting dialogue through the book.•After the apocalypse, storyline was gripping, leaving readers craving for more.NOT SO GOOD•After prologue, slow start too filled with high school drama.•Not enough leading into nightmares and drawings.•Once real story started, lack of world building.•Lack of "riveting action" and only one zombie scene.•Still not sure the book is about.
I think that this book has bursts of brilliance, but I think that those flashes of brilliance were overshadowed by a weak male lead and at times vague world-building.
I wanted to know more about the Flash, and how Evie survived.Pay attention to the dates.
I love that Evie is well on her way to becoming that kick-ass heroine in this tarot themed “There Can Be Only One” world, but if Jack is going to be her love interest, I want him to do some growing up.I will say that Cole's writing is fantastic and gripping, but her trademark sense of humor was missing from this book.
*4 APOCALYPTIC STARS*Me and this book had quite a rocky start, up until around the middle part, but I still ended up loving it towards the end!I loved that Evie finally grew a backbone!Review coming soon!
I wouldn't have read it if I didn't like laughing at the absolute ridiculousness of 2012 or Independence Day. But here's the thing at least in the movies you have the bad special affects and acting to keep your interest (and sometimes if you're lucky, some fantastic abs too), but in books...not so much.
But I continued on and by the time it was over (or halfway over since I couldn't stomach finishing this one), I have lost faith in humanity.There are so many issues I want to discuss, but I know if I talked about every single thing that would bother me you'd probably would be doing something better with your time like playing Temple Run or whatever.
review to come...
