https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/449329.The_Man_in_the_Maze
fuck the world and fuck the people in it. right? fuck 'em. you spend your life trying to do things, accomplish things, putting yourself out there. do people even remember those things? does the universe even care? you are just a cog in the great world-machine that doesn't even want to know you, that doesn't recognize the things you've done. who could ever want you, you are a useless part now that you are  you have many accomplishments, many great deeds. so why was that done to you, why are your
you are just a cog in the great world-machine that doesn't even want to know you, that doesn't recognize the things you've done.
just let those who drove you away come and try to get you, now that they need you.
let them come to your world-maze.
it is a book about a maze and the man in it.
it is about men who don't need women, or things, or ideas.
it is a book about men who need to move forward and make their mark, maybe many marks.
what is a maze to such men?
John Donne’s axiom that no man is an island is conceptualized as a science fiction novel.Silverberg, never one for light hearted mirth or comedic relief anyway, has in The Man in the Maze created one of his darker works, this is a spiritual vehicle that goes to the heart of the darkness that lies in the human soul and serves as an allegory for the byzantine walls we put up to keep others out.
While some dated details and the treatment of (barely existent) female characters bothered me, the ideas he was working with also fascinated me so much that I sought out more of his work.The premise of "The Man in the Maze" is wonderfully intriguing: Richard Muller is a famous space explorer, who made first contact with the only other sentient species in our galaxy.
But a crisis of Earth pushes an old, Machiavellian colleague of Muller, Charles Boardman, to seek him out to ask for his help in dealing with the threat against their home world.This book really is about is alienation, about feeling completely ostracized and trapped.
And a year later, in the author's even more masterful "The Man in the Maze," we encounter still another space explorer who had been surgically altered by aliens, but this time, the alterations are mental, rather than physical, although no less devastating to the subject's sense of self-worth.
Somehow, all the nasty sludge deep down in his brain was now being telepathically communicated to others, like an infinitely less harmful variant of the Id Monster in the 1956 sci-fi classic "Forbidden Planet," or the psychic equivalent of the aroma that hits a NYC subway rider when he/she enters a car that contains an especially foul-smelling homeless person!Unable to turn off his repellent mental aura, Muller had immured himself at the center of the ancient maze on the dead planet Lemnos; a murderous, million-year-old labyrinth with limitless means of destroying intruders.
Dick Muller, the damaged soldier who lives on the planet of Lemmos and its large, deadly maze constructed by aliens from a long forgotten civilization.
Boardman and Rawlins' mission is to retrieve Muller from his self-imposed exile in the maze which only he has mastered.The maze is, of course, a symbol of the inner workings of a man's mind.
In other words, you pick the book up recognizing that the main characters will be men, and you find the underpinnings of the man's mind to be such.
You have to read these books about the future as works from the past.
Absolutely fascinating setting - an extinct alien race apparently grew more an more paranoid and built a maze around their city with each outward circle becoming more and more lethal.
However, I didn't find the story built on this foundation to be anything special.
Not that it is a bad story...I think that having such a fantastic set up raised my expectations so that a "merely average" plot became a disappointment.
I have the same reaction to Silverberg's Majipoor novels - I can see that it is a fantastic world but then the average writing and plot suffer in comparison.
When I reviewed the absolutely excellent book, The American, I mentioned that one of my favorite words is Sonder, which is defined as:the realization that each random passerby is living a life as vivid and complex as your own—populated with their own ambitions, friends, routines, worries and inherited craziness—an epic story that continues invisibly around you like an anthill sprawling deep underground, with elaborate passageways to thousands of other lives that you’ll never know existed, in which you might appear only once, as an extra sipping coffee in the background, as a blur of traffic passing on the highway, as a lighted window at dusk.It is a word that can craft beautiful stories, and more importantly, can change the way that you look at the world.
Phenomenal novel , like all the others I've read by Silverberg .
Just like Philoctectes, this is a story that war veterans should read for its healing powers, and fundamentally positive message at its core: that despite all of our contradictions and flaws, there is always hope for us human beings.Romanzo assolutamente eccezionale, come tutti gli altri che ho letto di Silverberg.
Come gli altri, si può leggere a diversi livelli e ha una profondità che a giudicare dalle altre recensioni non è spesso capita.
This is now my third R.Silverberg book and it is another fantastic 5-star read. Only one other author has so profoundly moved me like this...and that is A.C.Clarke. I highly recommend this book! At approximately 200 pages, it's a whole lotta bang for the buck. And for a proper review...refer to a spot-on GR review by "Denzil". Next is Shadrach in the Furnace.
Lento, aburrido y muy machista. Sí, la idea de fondo no está mal, aunque un tanto de los setenta ((view spoiler)[hombre solitario que desprecia la humanidad pero cuyo honor se impone a su desprecio para salvar la Tierra una vez más (hide spoiler)]), pero en un relato se hubiera desarrollado igual de bien.No profundiza mucho en la idea, los personajes son acartonados y hay poco desarrollo. Por no hablar de las frecuentes descripciones de senos, nalgas y folleteos, lo único para lo que aparece alguna mujer en el libro. Muy prescindible.
It had the potential to be a wonderful story, brilliantly written; but it has all these nasty little marks on it that rob its beauty.
One of the main questions of the book is, "Is humanity basically good and worth saving?" But all the authors arguments about what humanity IS, are skewed over to focus almost completely on sex.
The author also seems to think that all women are empty-headed objects of desire with no thoughts or goals of their own.
Not one actual real female character with a voice of her own in the entire book.
Every male character is described in detail- their thoughts, feelings, motivations, etc...
Aside from the blatant sexism infused throughout this novel, I really really enjoyed the main plot of the story and the three men both in the literal physical maze, as well as their own internal "mazes" of both emotional, psychological and moral design.
In the newer edition that I read, Neil Gaiman has written an introduction which does allude to the sexism/objectification of women though not with as much of a warning as I would have liked.
But, in truth, this story is truly worth the read, as long as you aren't easily offended and enjoy a bit of solid psychological science fiction.
En el libro El hombre en el laberinto (publicación original: The Man in the Maze, 1968), conocemos a Dick Muller, que lleva años viviendo solo en el planeta Lemnos, en concreto en su antiguo laberinto construido por una raza desaparecida hace un tiempo incalculable.
Y es que Muller, tras una misión diplomática en Beta Hydri IV, sufrió una alteración en su sistema nervioso que provoca un rechazo incontrolable en las personas que se acercan, por lo que tomó la decisión de aislarse.
Al frente de la expedición de búsqueda, Charles Boardman, el hombre que lo convenció de ir a Beta Hydri IV.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
Pero no tiene esa oportunidad: un peligro acecha y es misión de un grupo de humanos, entre los cuales está a quien Muller culpa de su exilio, el encontrarlo para pedirle que se la juegue una vez más por la humanidad.
La presentación de los personajes y el mortal laberinto ya es la gloria pero Silverberg es siempre capaz de plantear sobre el tablero ideas potentemente filosóficas aderezadas por la aventura y la acción más apasionantes.
Nemmeno il più brillante romanzo di genere può essere paragonato alla lungimirante e commovente analisi dell'uomo che regge "L'uomo nel labirinto".Perché, - ed è lapalissiano - il vero labirinto non è la costruzione aliena ed abbandonata, ma il labirinto mentale e sociale dell'essere umano in quanto tale.
E nonostante sia praticamente visto "da lontano", è enorme e immane la sua densità psicologica.Ancora più apprezzabile se si pensa che "L'uomo nel labirinto" non è altro che una geniale rielaborazione del "Filottete" di Sofocle.Concludo citando un pezzo dell'introduzione curata da Neil Gaiman.Più di ogni altra forma di letteratura, la fantascienza è un work in progress e ci arriva con una data di scadenza.
So, the concept is fantastic.
That's the good part.
The bad part is this was first published in 1969 & OH MY GOD IT'S SEXIST.
Women in the book truly exist ONLY as sexual objects, & at one point the main character LITERALLY describes a woman as he would a cut of meat.
It should be only a cliche but it's right there in the text.
I know it's basically sacrilege, but this could benefit, I think, from a rewrite, or a "reimagining".
Take the sexual objectification out, you've got a good story & you lose nothing.
Maybe gender-swap it just for fun...?
In retrospect, I'm willing to overlook the sexism, (Silverberg's character's are often ridiculously sexist) because the book is simply that good.The hero, a man who chooses to act as diplomat to an alien race, is changed by them into something they can tolerate. Unfortunately, other humans, in particular his lover, are now revolted by his proximity; he literally makes her skin crawl. In anguish he retreats to The Maze.Not a bad punishment for a chauvinistic SOB, don't you think?
8/10 el el 2002. El libro es del 69, con todas las paranoias que le pasaban por la cabeza a nuestros amigos americanos en esa época.
This is pretty good -- though there remains something pulpish about the writing. Still, Silverberg has finally shown me how to start to read Sci-fi.
inside out exilewallowing in bitternesstime to use him up.
Flawed, dated, still intriguing.See also:The Stars My DestinationThe SparrowThe Gap Into Conflict: The Real Story
This was an interesting but not a fun read; it relates the story of a space explorer (Muller) who suffered a terrible injury in contact with aliens, and isolated himself in the middle of a murderous maze on the planet Lemnos, hating his fellow humans for what happened to him.
But 9 years later, Muller's old friend/hated enemy Boardman comes calling, asking him to help humanity again by contacting a new group of aliens.
Most of the action involves efforts of Boardman's group to penetrate the maze, and Boardman's messenger, a fresh faced Ned Rawlins, as Ned deceives Muller trying to get him out of the maze.
I loved Muller's character and everything about him.
Sure, he isn't the most likeable guy at times, but he isn't a bad one.
I love his 'let them die trying' mentality and anger at the world.
So leave the poor guy alone!But, at the same time, you're rooting for the opposite side to succeed.
It was so conflicting, because they need him to save humanity, but the how they try to achieve this goal is so against their morality, but they knew it needed to be done.
They'd hurt him again and throw him into the lion's pit, all for a chance to save humanity.
He's angry, pissed, hurt and just tired of the human race.
After a nine-year self-imposed exile to an alien planet, Richard Muller is called upon to be the saviour of humanity.
He has come here because, due to an alien operation which happened during a past intergalactic mission, he can't help transmitting his deepest and darkest thoughts and emotions to anyone within a few meters of him.
Themes of survival, isolation, ambition, and morality are overtly written, but with enough subtlety and nuance not to be pedantic.On the downside, it's virtually impossible to write about this book without talking about the depictions of macho men and vacuous women.
One year I went to a book friend of mine's bookstore in Berkeley, CA because Robert and his wife, Karen, were going to be there.
So I'm standing there in line, it's my turn and I said to him, 'one of my favourite books of yours is about this man in a maze, but I can't remember the title of the book.' Robert smiles at me and puts his finger on top of this book.
At one point I turned to find my boss and there behind me was Robert and his wife.
I grabbed this book off a shelf at the library they were selling for like 10 cents.
The book is actually pretty good.
The plot is interesting, and the story is driven from the viewpoint of three men who are very well fleshed out.
Call me old fashioned, but I could have done without the scenes of sex.
Actually there really was no sex, but he continually leads you up to the scenes and describes women as simply a way for men to pleasure themselves.Interesting read, but nothing I would encourage others to read.
I would have read this novel first, in the early 70s, when at HS. It was powerful, compelling, and entertaining.Great story, complex, varied, clever use of advanced tech, cleverly created galactic political structure. Also complex and tortured characters. Lots of sex, which appealed to me at a young and impressionable age. I have re-read this a number of times over the decades, and I am sure that I will a few more in the future.The sexism of the novel seems to have aggravated a few people, I suppose justifiably, but still, I can live with that.
This was the book that really got me reading, not only Science Fiction but reading in general. It was a borrowed book from my orthodontist's office, but I've read it many times since. Four stars for the book, but five stars for the experiences that it started me on. I still love reading it.
Now among my favorite SF novels, this is a study in alienation, despair, ambition, physical perfection, ideals (both shattered and intact) and the human condition. Oh, and there's a maze. Gotta love a book with a maze.
Ressenya en català:http://www.elkraken.com/Ressenyes_Cat...Reseña en castellano:http://www.elkraken.com/Esp/H-esp/R-h...
