https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9297774-eve
Although she was raised in a cloistered school with no contact with the outside world, and is actively educated in the “evils” of men and love, Eve purportedly has close friends of several years, and ample opportunity build meaningful relationships with her peers.
Although it is rather in keeping with the way Eve has behaved throughout the entire preceding story, it still seemed illogical and out of place to me.
Frankly, it felt like the entire slog through Eve’s story was met with a slap in the face, and a cheap ploy to generate investment in the sequel.
I know people will be like ‘B-b-but it’s exactly the same as The Handmaid’s Tale’… but I’ve never read it sooo… I think Ms Carey did a great job at setting up this idea and it was incredibly creepy.
And I thought “Wow, that’s different and exciting and unique”.But before I could say “CATFIGHT!!” it was made clear that Caleb only has eyes for Eve. So that was the end of that.Love Interest.It’s difficult to not to swoon over a boy like Caleb.
and i think this is the kind of book elizabeth was talking about the other day when she said YA exhausts her because she is tired of reading another cheesy teen love story, just with different scenery.
eve has been raised in an all-girl environment, been told that men are all horrible rapists and that once she gets her shiny education, she will go to the golden land and live a life of academic bliss and personal happiness.
but that's a lie, and after all the intensive schooling, all these girls are just going to be strapped to a bed and forced to make baby after baby for the brave new world.wait - so why are they trained so well?
Nope.
One of the first questions I ask myself when I'm reading a dystopian novel is, "Could I ever live in this world?" I can easily answer no for Eve. I can see this book having two distinctive effects on people: horrifying them and completely turning them off or intriguing them just enough to keep them reading.
I'm happy to say I fell in the latter category.Eve lives in a world that has been devastated by a deadly Plague leaving countless children orphans.
There was one scene in the book were a little boy asks Eve what love is and she tells them:
And I think it may be because of those very reviews that I had an experience almost completely opposite with Eve. Before even opening the pages Eve, I expected a boring read with mediocre characters and horrible world-building, as that is what most of the negative reviews led me to believe, but instead, what I got with Eve was a disturbing and emotionally raw novel with great characters that made me cry a countless amount of times.
Re-read from 26th-29th Nov 2013 “You can love anyone. Love is just caring about someone very deeply. Feeling like that person matters to you, like your whole world would be sadder without them in it.” GENRE: YA/DYSTOPIAN/ROMANCE (with bits of action)   WHERE DO YOU GO WHEN NOWHERE IS SAFE? Eve is set in the year 2032, 16 years after a deadly virus wiped out most of Earth's population. Males and females have been saparated ever since.  “Sometimes it seems like all the things I need to know, I do
And all the things I do know are completely wrong.” At the school were Eve and all the other girls lived and learned, they were taught that men can not be trusted.
He promises he will protect her, but soldiers are looking for Eve.And to be in love in a world like this one, is to be already cursed.Sacrifices and choices have to be made...true love...or her life?
I have first read Eve in Jan 2012, and LOVED it to the very last page.
The relationship between Eve and Caleb
Yes. Was her attitude around Caleb highly and annoying naive at times?
But (and this is really true) she did everything with the best intentions.Some of the worst things imaginable have started with the best intentions, but that is not the point here.The point is I would judge a female character from this world acting like that harder than I judged Eve in her world.AND I got say I thought she manned up there at the end.
I think I will be checking out the sequel!I did feel like certain things were rushed.
I’ve just finished reading Eve and it was amazing.So touching and heartbreaking.I loved it.I coudn’t put this book down and I didn’t want it to end.I just can’t wait for the next novel.
And it never got rectified.I'll keep from using names in case you plan to read this book (which I don't recommend - there wasn't a single good element in this story):Rapist: "She wanted me.
And if the rapist did try to blame me, there is no way my husband would even consider that anything like that could ever have been my fault.
Everyone just moved on.This book wasn't good, it was getting a low rating from me anyway.
You should know what you're getting into - I don't recommend this book to anyone.
If you’re looking for an exciting read about a girl and a boy falling in love while running from The Man, you may enjoy Eve.For my part, though, I was irked.
When Eve reflects on it later, she thinks, “It should’ve been the first thing I said when I awoke.” Not that she shouldn’t have done it, not that she should have asked and possibly learned a safer way to achieve her goal, not that she should have fessed up right after doing it — but that she should have said something earlier the following day.The ending doesn’t seem to make much sense either.
Never, ever , ever put a review from Lauren Kate on the front cover of your book.Ever.
'cause I'm pretty sure she would find looking at a wall a fabulous, fast paced , gripping event.
then she could always go write an actual book worth reading.
Despite your stupid mistake Anna Carey, I will give your book a try.
Maybe I will actually like it, I mean the idea is obviously there.
But to be honest?
Anything Lauren Kate finds good, I will probably end up wanting to throw it in fire among where all her fallen books have began to rest.
That said, Eve isn't a bad story despite some of the clumsy dialogue and sudden/abrupt shifts because right now it feels like to ended too soon.
Eve's story starts where most stories like these do: a girl relatively happy (and ignorant) with how things are.
And I'm not saying that this development was a bad thing becasue, at least there was something tackled beyond a glance.) World building is thin.
Like Eve, we no little of what was and know even less about what is.
The parts that are absolutely clear is that there's a girl on the run with a boy who knows a bit more than she does.
For being a young adult book, I really enjoyed this story.
Yes, there were times that I wanted to slug Eve for the stupid decisions she made but I tried to give her the benefit of the doubt because of how innocent and naive she was raised....but....come on....some things were just unforgivable.
I got on this genre by spending my whole weekend watching The 100 episodes from the beginning and just had to read more stories like it.Am I going to read the next book in this series?
I am nothing if not interested in helping potential buyers decide whether or not to spend their hard-earned money on a book, so here is my Very Useful Summary of the first third or so -- if you like this, PRESS THAT BUY BUTTON NOW.
EVE: I don't believe you because that makes no sense: why would they teach us waltz and Russian literature if that were true?
(Also, I'm pretty sure the book maintains this rape-is-a-compliment theme, since -- if I gather correctly -- the King of America will decide that Eve will be his own personal baby-maker, come heels or high water.
Take Eve, for example - she ends up in an all-boys camp, yet there is only one attempt at rape (even if those guys are in their teen years and are expected to have raging hormones).
Maybe at the beginning of the book I could have bought it, since she was raised to be useless in the wild, but she spends a lot of time in a camp with a bunch of guys and the most useful thing she learns there is to swim.
http://livetoread-krystal.blogspot.co...This book begins with a sad letter from a desperate mother to her daughter, Eve. The letter is informative for the reader, telling of a terrible plague that will soon claim the mother's life and the mother's unshakable hope for her daughter's future.
The reader will later learn that this false information is taught to the girls in the hopes that they will be led like sheep to the slaughter when it comes to birthing children...they will be cowed into submission.Eve wants more from life, she expects to be a muralist.
Arden and Eve do not particularly get along in the beginning of the novel, though their attitudes will change when push comes to shove and they end up as friends.
This is the problem I had with Wither and it's the same problem I have with Eve. You see, The Handmaid's Tale by Margaret Atwood has already told the story of women being stripped of humanity and treated as wombs on two legs.
And it has told that story in such a way that it will make the reader, especially the female ones, very, very aware of what could happen were their hard won freedom taken away.
Quick reviewCover: Interesting Rating  PG Thumbs Up 3.5Overall: Frustrating.Characters: Well writtenPlot: Certainly interestingPage Turner: Kind of  Series Cont.?
Maybe Recommend  MaybeBook Boyfriend: CalebSUMMARY (50 words or less)Eve's story was different and compelling.
Even though there were trouble points in the story/writing at times, I find myself interested enough to read more.
Audio ReviewTavia Gilbert is better known to me as the narrator of the Night Huntress series.
And she didn’t disappoint in this series.
In fact I think she helped keep me interested.
Again, I was able to discern all the characters.
I liked this book.
This was the first dystopian book that I've read.
* * * After reading this book in the autumn of 2016 I realised that the world building was quite poorly done and Eve isn't exactly a kick ass heroine, is more the classical dystopian heroine which realise her world is full of lies, but in the first two books she's pretty enjoyable as a main character.
It was never overly dramatic or self-indulgent, which would have had quite a different effect on me; Carey is good at not over-doing it.) There is mention of a vaccination that instead made people more susceptible to catching the plague, but either no one does actually know anything about it or the King has suppressed it: Eve's ignorance about the plague feels like a brick wall to our understanding of this new world order.
Had heard some not so encouraging things about this book, I was a bit doubtful if you start reading it but something told me I had to do it, first ... THAT COVER IS BEAUTIFUL !, and second THAT STORY that I found very original!So, I decided to read it ,went for the truth and I can not be happier than my decision ....The story as I said before is something I had never read before this apocalyptic world where democracy existed ,now fifteen years later is under the command of a king, a man who thin
CRAZY !.Then the characters ...Eve, that is certainly the smartest girl in her high school and she is very excited about the graduation day until you discover the truth about what was happening when you leave there and decides escape ....To me I loved this character is me a little naive at first and in the finish too hahaha think it's a lovable character and I hope to grow in the following books.Caleb: It's a boy wrestler, handsome and super genuinely concerned for others I love it !!!
Rating: 3.5It's no secret that I have a weakness for super-cool dystopian novels, so I knew I had to read Eve from the moment I heard about it — and I'm glad I did!
Considering its insane competition, it's not the best dystopian I've ever read but it was still really enjoyable!
Anna Carey did an awesome job with making the world believable in that awful, gut-wrenching sort of way, which is so important in a dystopian book!
The rest of the characters (like Caleb, who I loved with Eve so much more than I thought I would!) added to the awesome factor, just like the cool plot.
This is the world according to Eve:• Men are evil.• The world is full of them. Okay, okay. Simmer down. You can’t really blame Eve. She grew up in a world where women are priced commodities and are apparently only good for one thing – as a part of a baby-making assembly line. I’m not kidding. This book has some serious demented concepts, far beyond the reaches of my usually open, accommodating mind. Eve is probably one of those characters that, had she been written with a stronger personality, I
Eve is probably one of those characters that, had she been written with a stronger personality, I’d probably love this.
Was she the most fertile woman in the world that the King wanted to impregnate her personally?
Why was there a need to forced girls into baby factory type of slavery?Why does the government, under the ruling of this tyrant king, insistent upon punishing and enslaving the young when really, they’re the best chance the world’s got of surviving?I just couldn’t follow the logic.The ending left much to be desired.
[September 23rd, 2015] MINI RANT REVIEW WARNING2.5 stars.This was a slightly dull and painful read, I blame the Dystopian YA plague that has affect books for a while now.
Because let's face it, it's a Dystopian--the world *is* screwed up, massively!
But I will state it had been better than other Dystopian YA I have encountered...thankfully.
But the characters themselves weren't strong enough or as well developed as they could have been to carry the story better for me.
I know it's dystopian.
I was irked constantly and it was a bit of a dull read to me.
The gist: In the year 2036 plague has decimated the population, leaving children orphaned and the world in chaos.
After being taken from her dying mother, Eve is taken to School at the age of five to live with other orphaned girls her age.
Though the writing itself was well-done and the premise interesting, the plot was plagued with inconsistencies and convenient coincidences.I found Eve to be unfailingly selfish, but beyond that her behavior was rarely consistent.
However, I do give credit to Carey for taking the time to actually build a relationship between Eve and Caleb instead of falling back on the love at first sight rote.
I got this book courtesy of the NetGalley Program, and have been itching to read Eve by Anna Carey ever since I read the plot.
It’s not very good whenever you don’t like the main character of a story, but sadly it happened in this book.
I've re-read my review ten times wondering if i'm being too harsh, thinking: "She has talent, but it just doesn't show..." Eve will be recieved well by some, it has been recieved well by some, but this is not a strong story that makes you sob like SHATTER ME or other A plus dystopians.
Es una primera parte de trilogía que plantea una historia muy interesante.La novela comienza cuando Eve descubre que su futuro es quedarse embarazada una vez tras otra para mantener a la raza humana, como el resto de mujeres.
Que en este primer libro queda un poco al margen como personaje pero que juega un papel muy importante.La autora nos describe cada situación con detalle pero no por ello convierte las descripciones en pesadas ni demasiado abundantes.
Eh. Typical YA dystopian romance, nothing special in this one. Don't care enough about the characters to continue.

