https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/862897.The_Adventurous_Four
3.5 stars This was a fun adventure set in Scotland during WWII.
Three siblings set off with a friend to sail to a nearby island.
After doing all the sensible survival and trying to be rescued activities, (which after reading many Blyton books we are well versed in) the children decide to explore a nearby island.
This did follow the usual Enid Blyton formula, and we didn't enjoy this as much as others we have read by this author, but WWII did add an interesting element to the story.
Enid Blyton's Only World War II Novel(21 August 2013) This is an interesting story of Blyton's because is was written during the opening stages of World War II, set during World War II and involved the antagonists of World War II. Actually, I believe that it is the only book of Enid Blyton's that actually makes reference to the war. It is interesting how Blyton portrayed the Germans, that is as 'the enemy' and the 'crooked cross' but she never actually mentions them by name. Maybe it is because,
This story is a little different that many of Blyton's other books as it jumps straight into the action, and while it is not as violent, or as bleak, as the sequel, it does seem to come off a little different than her later adventure stories such as the Famous Five.
In a way, in her later books, the children all seem to be somewhat protected, despite coming up against some rather unsavoury characters, but maybe it is because they are never really cut off from the rest of the world as they seem to be in these stories.
Loved reading this childhood favourite through adult eyes. Didn't realise it was set in WW2 before!
Gostei, mais uma história digna de Enid Blyton
A genuinely wholesome and enjoyable novel by Enid Blyton set during WWII.
I really loved reading this novel, and especially loved that unlike some of Enid Blyton's other novels there was no recognisable mention of "acceptable" gender roles, and nor were people judged for their looks.
I was also quite interested to see that the "enemy" was never mentioned by name, they were only known by a "crooked cross" and as the "enemy", leaving it to the reader to put a face to the nameless enemy based on their own knowledge of WWII and the enemies that Britain held throughout that conflict.
Would make for an enjoyable read for both young and old.
My first and favourite Enid Blyton book. I also read the entire Secret Seven series and the Famous Five series but I'm too lazy to post them all. Oh, I liked the Secret Seven better than the Famous Five...I read them in that order too...
Fifteen years later...this one is still good!Re-read with my little cousin.
As an example of Blyton's earlier adventure stories, this book has some advantages over many of its successors, particularly the pacing; in many of her later works, you have to wait for about half the book for the adventure to get started.
Where groups such as the Five and the children of the Adventure series will feel much more rounded and distinct, of the Adventurous Four Andy has almost all of the personality, and even he is more an amalgamation of qualities Enid admires than a fully developed character.
saya pernah membaca buku ini tapi kemudian berpikir buku yg saya baca itu enid blyton seri petualangan.
Saya harap bisa mendapatkan buku ke 2, Gua Rahasia, dalam waktu dekat ini.
Saya tidak memikirkan PD nya tapi saya menyimpulkan seperti apa orang Inggris itu.
Jadi sungguh aneh, saat saya membaca Asterix di Inggris, semua tentang "tea time" itu semacam guyonan (saya pikir) kenyataannya mungkin benar, war stop when tea time and continue when it's ended.
Yah kalau membaca novel seperti ini ada kesan santai saat perang tapi kalau menonton film kamp konsentrasi yahudi, there's no time even to breath..
The Adventurous Four – Tom, the twins Pippa and Zoe, and their special friend Andy who has a sailing boat on which the four love to go exploring.Tom, Pippa and Zoe are excited at spending the night camping on an uninhabited island with their friend Andy.
But before they can get there, a violent storm blows their boat off course and on to some rocks.When the children explore their surroundings, they stumble on some very strange goings-on, indeed.
I was a voracious reader as a child having entire series of "The Baby Sitter's Club", "Sweet Valley Kids", and "Sweet Valley High School", but nothing sparked my imagination like Enid Blyton.
I would recommend her to anyone and everyone who liked reading and asked what I was reading.
The way her short stories sparked my imagination impacted me more than I let on.
They were parables like Disney animated movies in printed words and I would get lost in them for hours until my mother would call me for dinner.
I would put Enid Blyton to the level of Roald Dahl and Dr. Suess.
ஆள மாறாடட கதையை எபபடி சுநதர சி வித விதமாக எடுபபாரா அதே போல குழநதைகளின சாகசததை வித விதமாக எழுதுவதில வலலவர எனபதறகு இனனொரு உதாரணம
ஆள் மாறாட்ட கதையை எப்படி சுந்தர் சி வித விதமாக எடுப்பாரா அதே போல் குழந்தைகளின் சாகசத்தை வித விதமாக எழுதுவதில் வல்லவர் என்பதற்கு இன்னொரு உதாரணம்
This one is rather thrilling and a bit tense!
It's not complictaed, or especially clever - but it has a lovely air of innocence, and is just a fun read that took me back to my childhood.
(The Adventurous Four, #1) by Enid Blyton has sequels Stranded!
Andy 14 "dark-haired and blue-eyed" "knew everything about the sea, boats, and fishing", "could mimic any seabird" p8 for secret signals to his visiting pals.
Tom 12 is "small, wiry" "red hair" "green eyes" always hungry.
The children do not think to save empty cans for tools, like digging a getaway tunnel, but resourceful Andy's pockets hold matches and candles in oilcloth, a can-opener, and his brain immediately sends them to rescue supplies, find food, and build shelter.
Andy cleverly uses the old sail for protection, disguise, escape on a raft ...
This was my favourite book as a child.
It made me want to go to Scotland.
Interestingly, it's the only one of Blyton's books that mentions the war.
Aside from the trite title and the disappointing fact that the islands in the book don't exist in reality, this is a fantastic adventure story.
Plot twists abound and the imagination of EB is astounding.
My only gripe is that there are too many food references - a 12 year old boy being constantly hungry is the sole strain of humour - and the none of the children are scared (or homesick) enough.
Never read this series as a child, I'm not sure why.
Read it for the first time yesterday, and it was interesting to me that this is the only Blyton book I've read with very overt Nazi references (the crooked cross of the ENEMY) -as opposed to the very vaguely defined 'foreign' enemies found in her other adventure series.Didn't like it as much as the other series, except maybe Secret Seven.
The characters weren't as likeable, and the whole thing just felt a little weird.
Maybe I should have read it as a child and not as a 21 year old.
It was a quirky little read that truly brings out the child within and as a person whose childhood consisted of reading the entire Famous Five series, this book was a lovely throwback. It's also interesting to read a book that was set during World War Two so from a historical point of view, it was fascinating as well. But nonetheless, I enjoyed this children's book and Enid Blyton is always a pleasure to read even at the age of 19.
I love this book! As a kid, I read it several times. How I wished that I could be camping on an island with Andy, Tom, Jill and Mary, and faced with adventure. Enid Blyton has a way of making each world of hers that you step into seem like a reality. As an adult, I can see flaws in her writing (such as making adult characters a little bit too gullible), but as a kid, no author in the world could inspire such imagination, and nor could I get my nose out of her books.
This is yet again a case of a book I read too long ago to remember, but it was part of my quest to find more Enid Blyton books. While not as immediately relatable as The Five's books, it was a very entertaining read nonetheless.My version is a Spanish translation by Editorial Molino.
This is the book that got me into reading, i read it over and over again definatly recommended to anyone any age.
I think this is the book "Shipwrecked" in its original guise. Great EB prose. It's a shame the female roles are strong, but I daresay EB made up for this with her schoolgirl series.
This is a really compelling book, it leaves the readers imagination wanting to engage in more, worth reading.
Adventurous Four...adopted in Bahasa Indonesia as Empat Sekawan, idem dito with Famous Five and The Secret Seven, served as part of my favourite novels more than a quarter century ago;)
"She feels a good boat, bonny and brave!" said Andy's father. "The Andy is like her master then!" cried Tom. "For he's just the same..."
A fun read. As with Blyton's Famous Five series, it has its faults, but this one seems notably less sexist/racist than the FF books.
I like the last chapters... quite tense
Two words... Love it!
it was very good
These weren't my favourite adventure stories from Enid Blyton, but they're still good fun.
