https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10762469-the-leftovers
Your characters always start out so intriguing at the beginning of your books, but then you throw too much weird superfluous stuff into the mix.
Couldn't we have done away with the seemingly tacked-on Christine/Tom/baby/Holy Wayne business and maybe had a little more about with the cult members killing each other, since one plotline was pretty spooky and the other kind of boring?
It's an interesting concept to look at the people left behind after a supposed rapture has taken place, but true to form, everyone runs out of steam by the end of the book and I run out of interest.
His storytelling was a 'kick-of-fun'.....( messy)I haven't much in the way of anything intellectual to say about the religious believers or non believers.....( I pretty much knew how I felt on issues -so my own faith remained the same)....I simply LOVE THE GRITTY DETAILS...the flawed characters...and the dialogue!I loved the storytelling - of characters Kevin Garvey, - his wife Laurie, his son Tom, daughter Jill, Aimee.
A LITTLE EXCERPT ....( background > Aimee is Jill's friend.
Aimee has been staying at Jill's house - about 3 months so far.
"We'll be careful," she promised.Jill roll her eyes, unimpressed by her friends good-girl act.
It's actually more like a Nora Roberts novel, but with an intro chapter referring to a large group of background characters who go missing (but really add nothing to the story anyways).
Within chapters, the author moves from one character to the next, making it feel like he's just catching you up on the scenes as they play out.
I thought several interesting story lines burned out because the writing was so dull.
If this was written to be a series, the characters were too dull for me to care.
If it was written as a stand alone novel, the ending is horrible.
Millions of people vanish in the blink of an eye leaving everyone left on Earth feeling like God just told them, “It’s not you, it’s me….”It’s been three years since the Sudden Departure, and the mayor of Mapleton, Kevin Garvey, is trying to get the town back to a feeling of normalcy.
Start a softball league?There’s an unspoken belief among them that the real story is taking place with the people who departed, and the ones left are just a minor footnote at best.
E ritengo che Perrotta ami scrivere libri adatti al cinema.Finora la sua opera è stata “compressa” nella durata filmica: adesso approda alla serie tv e probabilmente alla possibilità di tagliare meno e aggiungere profondità, respiro, dettaglio.Da quello che ho visto nelle prime due puntate (in lingua originale con sottotitoli, grazie a un benedetto sciopero degli italici doppiatori), come sempre, qualcosa si perde e qualcosa si guadagna.Come potrebbe essere altrimenti?
Anyway, the thing about Perrotta is that his work, as terrific or as pedestrian as it is, is insanely readable and "getting into it" is easy and fun.
His books are given the usual three stars by me, but it really means something that some of his novels have made terrific films ("Election," "Little Children").
(I only need time to read everything of his, minus "L.
I need to KNOW!!) endings--they require, at times, ample time for digestion.
Perrotta's scale is incredibly, claustrophobically small.
But still, I must reiterate that I must read everything else.
At least the guy sure knows how to entertain!
SHORT REVIEW: What Conan the Barbarian was to High Fantasy, The Leftovers is to Mid-Life Crisis Fantasy.
No, that's too kind.SHORT REVIEW #2: A book so OK it hurts.ANOTHER SHORTY: I liked this better the first time, when it was called American Beauty.LONG REVIEW: Reading this book was like heading down a playground slide made of glass.
And then you hit the rocky ground and it is worse than you imagined.Speaking of bad comparisons, The Rapture, the author claims, is a metaphor for dealing with grief and loss.
Yet, no one in this book deals with grief or loss in any positive fashion.
And now Tom Perrotta one-ups him by introducing the Garveys…a suburban family who was left behind in the aftermath of a Rapture-like event.To his credit, Tom Perrotta drinks no Kool-aid.
On balance, it was a good thing.”It’s an ambitious theme that Tom Perrotta takes on – how diminished we are when something vital is being subtracted from our lives, but how we somehow put one foot in front of the other.
Never, have I ever wanted an author to pull a George RR Martin the way I wanted it to happen in The Leftovers.  WHO WANTS TO BE A MARTYR? the caption asked.  Yeah...there was not as much of this as I'd hoped. Up until the last few pages, I was somewhat enjoying the book, happy sunshine (oh wow, I accidentally typed happy sunshit and had to correct that. I might have just coined a new term.) and all. Okay, so there wasn't actually a whole lot of happy or sunshine going on, but compared to the sho
Okay, so there wasn't actually a whole lot of happy or sunshine going on, but compared to the show, this book was very light on the drama.
Why the show felt the need to have to withold info that the book gave away up front, I don't know.
Well, except for the whole "who wants to be a martyr?" situation which kind of ended badly for some characters.
I don't count my read as wasted time, but if the only reason you want to pick this book up is to get some answers, just read this : (view spoiler)[The Guilty Remnant believe that they're proving themselves worthy for God's return.
Have you ever read one of those books where it feels like the middle part of a trilogy, like all the action happened just before the first page and then kicks into gear right on the last page?I guess it doesn't matter if you've read one like that or not.
That little description makes sense enough, right?Okay, how about this:When I get a pizza, the first slice is awesome.
The bookends of pizza are awesome, but the middle is kind of lame.
Everyone in town has been affected by the event and large numbers of people have been traumatized, though no one knows exactly what has happened.
Some fervently believe that this was, in fact, the Rapture for which some Christians have long awaited, though some of the "leftover" Christians cannot understand why some Muslims, Jews and others were carried away while they were left behind.
Large numbers of people are, understandably, traumatized and cannot get over the loss of the family members and friends who so abruptly left their lives.As is clear from his previous book,The Abstinence Teacher, Perrotta has a keen insight into modern suburban life.
What the shit did I just read?Truly, I’m at a loss for words.
She says, ‘it was a book—I’ll buy you the book and then you’ll know what I’m talking about.’ Since I love her to the end of this world and the next, I agree.
I don’t mean you, you hard-reading bastards; you’re all serious readers.
I don’t hate-read, and to each-their-own, but this is just a waste of trees.
PLEASE JUST READ THIS PART: if you like this book/books like this/Perrotta/etc., pay me no mind.
IN FACT, if you like this/read this stuff/etc., I say, ‘bully!’ ‘Huzzah!’ You know why?
Tom Perotta’s newest book would not be a typical choice for me.
The fact that life after The Rapture was central to the story made me that much more curious.
I was not disappointed.In The Leftovers, Tom Perotta explores what would happen if The Rapture actually took place.
Perotta’s characters show a variety of emotions, including indifference, avoidance, and depression.
Two of the main characters even join strange cults that spring up after The Rapture.
Perotta leaves the reader feeling that even after an apocalyptic event, life would go on in a strangely normal fashion.
I thought this audio would be decent laundry-folding entertainment, but I seriously underestimated Mr. Tom Perrotta and his awesome ability to tell a rad story!!!!
This book was killer!!!!!
The premise is this: A rapture-like event occurs and 2% of the population is vaporized.
The people who are left really can't make sense of it.
Some folks get their acts together and carry on, and others really take a flying leap into full-on insanity.
I loved it.
I didn't want it to end.
I wish this was the first book of a twenty book series!
Five stars!!!
With his newest novel, The Leftovers, Perrotta ponders an interesting question: what if the Rapture happened, but not all of the religiously devout were taken, but instead, a random, unexplainable group of people disappeared?
As Kevin tries to help the people of his town rebuild their lives, he embarks on a relationship with Nora Durst, whose husband and children were lost to the Departure.
When I finished the book, I found myself frustrated that not one character's situation was resolved, but then I realized that this must be a metaphor for how the world felt after the Sudden Departure.
The idea 🌟🌟🌟🌟I mean, half the people just vanished... and no Avengers here to save 'em in the sequel.. The Message (Moral) 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟Dealing with the loss, the grief, religion zealous, feeling lost..The Characters 🌟🌟🌟Most of them needed more developments..may be it's the plot..The Story (Plot) 🌟🌟May be if it were just a novella would have been much better..More in a review to come -in Arabic though, Mohmmed ArabeyFrom 2 Aug. 2018To 8 Aug. 2018
This book takes on some weighty issues but leavened with comic twists.
The author plays with issues I've dealing with as I get older; my life is increasingly influenced by absences, by who and what I have lost.
I remember the people who have disappeared from my life or roads not taken.
These are my 2 am musings.The novel also explores how people deal with losses and what things do they tell themselves to get through it.
It has has funny little twists, like mandatory smoking for cult members who have a fatalistic view of the world.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/3.5 StarsA strange phenomenon has swept the globe. People, seemingly chosen at random, simply vanished.  After what is dubbed the “Sudden Departure,” those remaining are left to deal with the aftermath. The Leftovers focuses on the residents of a small town called Mapleton. Some, like Kevin, have decided to move on with life – and are maybe doing a little better or feeling a little more needed than they were before the Sudden Departure
Some, like Kevin, have decided to move on with life – and are maybe doing a little better or feeling a little more needed than they were before the Sudden Departure.
Kevin’s son, Tom, decided to follow a different path and was led to a charismatic new prophet who turns out to be not such a holy man after all, but rather is one of the creepiest of creeps
leading Tom to yet another new-formed group known as the Barefoot People.
This is the story of how these ordinary people move on in the face of extraordinary circumstances.Before reading The Leftovers, I had only read one Tom Perrotta book - Nine Inches.
Then I got to halfway and started wondering if it were going to go anyplace.
Then I got farther and started wondering if it were ever, ever going to go anyplace.
Then I wondered if it were going to end.
As the pagination continues, the plot jumps more and more quickly, each character getting less and less time.
It’s nothing, a bunch of Barbies and Kens who do the same damn thing for 355 pages, never changing, never revealing who they are, what makes them tick.
That’s the chief end of man, to sleep with something.
This one comes from the author of Election and Little Children.
After listening to an NPR interview with Perrotta, I ran out and bought the book despite it being hardcover.
He came off so intelligent and likeable on the radio, and his ideas were so provoking, I couldn't help being drawn to the book.
The book takes place after a Rapture-like event, but it isn't about the rapture at all.
It's much more focused on what happens after these huge events - who is left behind and how do they deal?
The Book Bench just posted an interview with Perrotta.
That she’s lost so much weight, has resumed smoking and has the vigor from earlier in her life presents a more dynamic portrait of a human being than any fiction that directly tackles Westboro-like groups, and frankly, presents more dimensionality than the Westboro protestors themselves.Religion gets its stage time, as it ought to in a book using a Rapture-gimmick.
Yet for a book that follows specific characters over long journeys of self-discovery, there are readers who will want it to be more focused on what they actually did, and to be brought into the moment page after page.Only after the fact did I learn this was labeled the “comic novel.” I’m still uneasy with this label, and don’t wholly comprehend what it’s supposed to mean.
I really liked how the minister loses the plot and starts dirt files on all the locals who departed, trying to ascertain in his own mind why has he sacrificed his life to serve a God that has left him behind?
So sort of in sympathy to her friend, whom she has helped grieve (maybe wallow is a better word) in the loss of her daughter they join the local cult.
So her friend joins the cult and then without any explanation at all, not even a sentence devoted to it, Laurie does the same thing too.
Tom Perrotta’s The Leftovers is a book that I really want to like.
The book is eerily timed this season with the 10 year anniversary of 9/11 (not sure if this was intentional or not).
Either way I couldn’t help but wonder whether or not if this is what it was like for those who experienced the terror of losing a loved one.Leftovers has the trappings of a much more interesting novel, it just falls short.
The only thing that vanished that I wish I could get back, the time I spent reading this book the past week.
The Leftovers follows five characters through the aftermath of a vast, unexplained Sudden Departure in which 4% of the earth's entire population has vanished without a trace.
I love stories about hope everlasting,and this one--especially the end--was no exception.
I highly recommend the HBO show this book has spawned as it takes the premise and expands on it, so that the weird twists and turns society has made as a result of the Sudden Departure are even more wonderfully unique and imaginative.
And I recommend the book that doesn't break out of its quiet narrative like the show does, but keeps it simple (maybe too simple as some critics have said) and intensely personal.
I really wanted to like this book.
The premise sounded interesting: a Rapture-like occurrence and how the people left behind cope.
Actually two stars may be generous, but I liked the concept, just not the book.It was not what I was expecting, which in itself is not a bad thing.
Despair, even.I was compelled to finish the book (I always finish even if it's horrible) but it left a bad taste in my mouth afterwards.
Thankfully, I don't suffer from depression, but this book seriously put me in a gloomy frame of mind.
3 stars - It was good.Liked it, but didn’t love it. My GR friend Carmen summed it up perfectly and succinctly, “ The characters are very three-dimensional and fleshed out. It was very well written, but not especially compelling or meaningful.” You can read her review here.-------------------------------------------Favorite Quote: There's not some finite amount of pain inside us. Our bodies and minds just keep manufacturing more of it.First Sentence: Laurie Garvey hadn’t been raised to believe in the Rapture.
Which was disappointing, and led to a slightly boring plot.A few moments stood out to me (spoilers ahead):- In an early chapter, a middle aged father feels uncomfortable looking at his teenage daughter's friend after she comes downstairs in her pajamas.
Because I did not want to spend 300+ pages dealing with the male gaze.- There's a scene where a character goes to the mall and sits in one of those massage chairs at like Brookstone or whatever.
And if that's not good writing, I don't know what is.- The cult leader with a bevy of teenage "brides" is so fucking over-played.
Always willing to prey on the vulnerability of others, cults form, including one led by Holy Wayne, a scoundrel who promises to "absorb" the pain of his followers, particularly if they happen to be young, attractive females.
They do not want the departed to be forgotten and fear that if life returns to normal, that is exactly what will happen.
They are left relatively untouched by the "departure", yet end up being pulled apart by apathy, unease and the lure of the cults.
These characters never really came to life for me, but I found them interesting and believable.I thought this was a clever and timely concept for a book.
Tom begins to follow a self-proclaimed healer named “Holy Wayne” who promises to take away the pain of any survivors and Jill befriends a delinquent student named Aimee as she begins partying it up and neglecting school.Perrotta really grabbed me when he named a select few notable people that vanished.
No matter where the person was when it happened, the location always struck him as eerie and poignant.When you’re talking about people vanishing while watching videos on YouTube or working out at the gym on an elliptical machine, it gave it just enough of a creepy feeling.It’s easily one of the strangest post-apocalyptic novels I’ve ever read (if you can call it that, which I chose to).
Now that I've finished, I'll have to give this odd book a two star rating.
Is there another book after this?
I think I've got a few unanswered questions!Not much happened in this book.
People disappeared.
People went on with their lives.
The interesting people were The Watchers in white - the members of the G.R.
I suppose Tom's life in the cult was fairly interesting.I haven't seen much of the series.
I can tell it's greatly expanded from this short book.
I kept feeling this is all pointless - who are these people?
Perhaps the series is better.
