https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/449261.Nightwings
LeGuin type novel.It is actually, three novellas put together to make a novel sized work, anchored by the Hugo award-winning novella Nightwings.This is set in the far future, thousands of years, and the earth has survived, generations ago, a cataclysmic apocalypse which destroyed the “second cycle”.
Telepathy and shared consciousness may also be a common theme in his work and is represented hereThe far future setting is also reminiscent of Poul Anderson’s Orion Shall Rise, especially in his description of the changes in geography and cultural icons.
What Silverberg does better than almost any sf authors writing today is to write short stand alone novels with very strange plots and excellent characterization.
His special talent us to drop the reader right in the middle of a strange place and time of his imagining and gradually acclimatize you through his story telling skills rather than just making an infodump.Nightwings is set on Earth but in a future so far flung and strange that it may as well be an alien planet.
It is astonishing how much plot, grandeur, ideas, subtext, and characterization Silverberg managed to squeeze into one short novel.
Vrlo lagano štivo stare škole SF-a. Izvrsno smišljen svijet podjeljen na "esnafe" koji upravljaju svijetom i mutante koji tumaraju Zemljom. Silverberg izgleda ne može razočarati, pa iako je tema koju obrađuje prežvakana stotinama puta - Osvajači vrše invaziju na naš planet i pokoravaju nas. Ono što volim u SF romanima je ljubav kao vodilja cijele priče(jebi ga, senitmentalan sam). I to mi baš daje ključni začin zašto mi se svidjela knjiga. Trojčica je tu jer stvaro je pitka, lagana, bez dubioza i neke teške filozofije, pa i bez bravuroznih literarnih vizura, ali je Silverbergovska skroz na skroz i prija.
Interesting.Anyway.Silverberg gives us, in his Hugo-award winning 'Nightwings' an Earth approximately 35,000 years in the future.
and some groups which are odder, such as the beautiful butterfly-winged fliers, created by genetic engineering in the Second Age, or the guildless Changelings, monstrous-looking outcasts, mistakes engendered by that same tinkering.Our lead character is a Watcher, his life devoted to using a cart of instruments which allow him to monitor space for unknown alien invaders.
but little known to humanity, the invasion is nearly upon Earth...Through three linked novellas, we follow the elderly Watcher on a journey through three ancient cities...
Humanity is segregated into rigid guilds, including the narrator who is a Watcher assigned to scans the heavens for signs of alien Invaders.
Zelazny’s story focuses more on the mutants who roam the planet due to a limited nuclear exchange, with an overlay of Greek mythology, but both books explore how more powerful aliens look down on once-mighty human civilization in a baroque and exquisitely-depicted future world.
But found at random with a vaguely surreal cover involving ruins, a wizard, and some kind of psychedelic wing-moon-head thing (I mean, look at it below), I would totally read this.
First complete edition, Avon, 1969, cover artist unknown.The novel, in fact, collects a sequence of three previously published novellas, each setting up a few characters en route to a new city (Roum, Perris, Jorslem, guess which those are), then inevitably shaking them out in some kind of reckoning.
For that matter, I enjoyed the others well enough too I suppose, but they just felt much less original and essential.Star breakdown over the three novellas: 3, 2, 2.
A short and elegaic SF novel in the 'dying earth' tradition that follows the wanderings of a member of the Watcher's Guild as he looks to the stars in anticipation of a foretold alien invasion of Earth. His companions include a beautiful young 'Flyer' (the "Nightwings" of the title) and an enigmatic Changeling.As the story unfolds we see great changes come over both the main character and the earth itself. I enjoyed this story for the tone it conveyed as well as the world & characters that were presented. Well worth picking up if you can find a copy.
İlk defa bir Robert Silverberg kitabı okudum.
Doğrusunu söylemek gerekirse ağır bir dil ve sıkıcı olay örgüsü bekliyordum.
İlk bölümü bitirdiğim zaman ne kadar yanlış bir düşünceye kapıldığımı anladım.
Yazar Roum'u ve Avluela'yı öyle bir tasvir etti ki kendimi masalsı bir dünyadaymış gibi hissettim.
Ancak içinde bulunulan evren eski bir dünya değil.
Şimdi bir masala bu teknolojileri ekleyince ortaya çok saçma bir şey çıkıyor.
Daha doğrusu bu kitabı okumadan önce çok saçma bir şey çıkıyordu.
Silverberg bu ikisini o kadar güzel harmanlamış ki okurken hiçbir zorluk çekmedim, aksine daha bir zevkle okudum.
İçindeki düşünceler, yaratılan evren ve karakterler ile birlikte mükemmel bir kitap ortaya çıkmış.
Each novella takes place in a different city (Rome, Paris, Jerusalem) and the main character joins a different guild in each.
The guild part doesn't make much sense, since we are told early on that the guilds are strict, and joining one is largely outside one's own control, but the main character has a habit of benefiting from extremely lucky coincidences, which drains the narrative of much impact and suspense.
The world created is more interested than the story being told.
Again, though, the world is quite interesting and well-described, too bad that the main story isn't that impactful.
It usually takes a while to get into the world of a fantasy novel -- unless you are in the hands of a master like Dunsany or Tolkien -- so I wasn't sure how I felt about Nightwings until I finished the book.
He is accompanied by a slim lovely Flier -- like a 14-year-old angel with wings who can fly only at night -- and a Changeling who turns out to be something altogether different.Nightwings was a pleasant read, though by no means a classic.
Originally appearing as three separate but linked novellas in the pages of "Galaxy" magazine, Robert Silverberg's "Nightwings" was, remarkably, the author's 35th science fiction novel in 15 years; just one of six that he came out with in 1969 alone (the others being "Across a Billion Years," the remarkable "Downward to the Earth," "Three Survived," "To Live Again" and "Up the Line").
Our narrator (whose name we do not learn until the novel's midpoint, at which time he is given another) is a member of the Watchers guild, whose members tirelessly scan the heavens four times a day, via mind-expanding machinery, to detect the prophesied invaders of Earth.
Tal cual la suma de la trama, personajes y desarrollo se podría calificar de historia de caballeros de lanza y espada, de la lealtad, honor y perseverancia, que buscan su personal grial en la vida, todo ello reflejado en un tiempo futuro, que predice el declive de la raza humana y su mundo de modo visionario pero no absolutamente negativo, siempre con una esperanza final.El autor da mucha relevancia a los oficios de vigía, memorizador y redentor, los tres con un rituales zen, en conexión total del ser que los lleva a cabo con el universo.
Far-future Earth is in its Third Cycle, after the rise of civilization and the development of technology in the First Cycle, the contact with alien civilizations and great feats of planetary engineering of the Second Cycle, ending in the moment when Man Grew Proud and tried to enact weather change on a wide scale across the entire planet, leading to massive disruption, chaos, and the collapse of civilization.
I actually quite liked it--a modern version would probably have the main character join a terrorist cell to fight Earth's new masters and commit dozens of atrocities to show the reader that the solution if your plan doesn't work is just to use more violence.
The ultimate tale of redemption, renewal...and coexistence. Such a wonderful story in less than two hundred pages. For a proper review, look for those written by Sandy, Apatt, and Stuart.
At first I found that I wasn't particularly engaged by the story but I was expecting science fiction when in fact this is more science fantasy in the Dying Earth tradition.
Indeed, it works much more as a fantasy novel than SF and once I had made the mental adjustment to the right mode, I began to enjoy it much more.The human race has gone well past its peak and is now in the third age in which much of the technological marvels that it attained in the previous age have been forgotten and what is left is a rigidly stratified society that is technologically backward.
It's not among my favourite of his novels I've read from this period but still well worth reading, particularly for fans of future fantasy.

Ah - I read this book at 13 and created a stained glass window from the inspiration!
This is a copy of the original story it goes only as far as Roum.All roads lead to Roum, the future of Earth, so far into it that the correct names of places have been so altered. Hind for India, Perris for Paris, and so on. A Watcher with an unlikely pair of of travelers, a flier and a changeling make their way to Roum. Watching the skies for an invasion that others never believe will happen until it does.
Piękne, melancholijne, poruszające. Skrzydła nocy okazały się jedną z najlepszych powieści wchodzących w skład Artefaktów. A przeczytałam wszystkie wydane dotąd części.Cała opinia:http://www.kacikzksiazka.pl/2017/07/s...
His friend, Frederick Pohl, was editor of Galaxy, the leading science fiction magazine at the time, paid Silverberg $500 each to publish them.
The First Cycle includes the years before earthlings had contact with intelligent beings from other worlds.
“In many parts of the universe humans were denounced as marauders, kidnapers, and pirates…” The population of at least one planet, who lacked the capability of space travel at the time, vowed to someday invade and conquer Earth as revenge for the cruel treatment of their species by humans.
He travels with many different companions during his journeys, including beautiful Avluela, a Flier, a member of a re-egineered human species that was created by man for beauty and enjoyment.
Silverberg (born 1935) is a remarkably prolific science fiction writer who is always competent but also capable of genuine beauty.
While Silverberg's ironic edge is never far away, the book presents a fascinating future history and has moments of beautiful lyricism and humanity.I should add one more thing about this fine writer.
Here is an assessment of him from the "Science Fiction Encyclopedia":" For more than half a century, his productivity has seemed almost superhuman, and his abrupt metamorphosis from a writer of standardized pulp fiction into a prose artist was an accomplishment unparalleled within the field.
Silverberg at his best has a real elegiac quality to his prose, but still keeps it simple enough to cut through your defenses.
This isn't his absolute best, but it's some of his prime material.A simple, eloquent piece of Dying Earth writing, with plenty of atmosphere and what slowly turns out to be a pretty interesting retelling of the fall of Rome and the rise of Christianity.
No Book of the New Sun here, for sure, but I just love the tone.
The breathtaking description of the Fliers, the Watcher trance, the unthinking cruelty of the Prince of Roum, and the way the book talks about redemption--there's a lot to love here and plenty to like.
A very short read and a true classic (Hugo Award for Best Novella) . Silverberg eloquently threads a tale that spans eons through the first person singular lens of it's protagonist. Parts of the style and story recalled Zelazny to me and that's a good thing. Like an accidental tourist, we learn of the world as it is and the world that was. There are some great quotables in this novella and I'm glad that I finally had a chance to read this #scifi classic.
A very moving book, I absolutely loved this book and I would highly recommend it to almost anyone. This book is very special to me.
Set in the far future on an Earth which is old, having seen many cycles of civilisation, it is told in the first person viewpoint of an old man who is one of the Watcher guild, his duty being to 'watch the skies' with an instrumentation cart, to look for a long forecast alien invasion.
Thus the ex-Watcher's guild had been established, although most ordinary people including himself no longer remembered who the Watchers were meant to provide early warning against.After the disasters which occur in the second segment of the book, the ex-Watcher is now an ex-Rememberer apprentice also and is forced to leave Perris in the company of another character who played a main role in the disastrous sequence of events.
Diese deutsche Übersetzung "Schwingen der Nacht" wurde 1971 veröffentlicht.This novel is a fix-up of three novellas by Robert Silverberg - "Nightwings" (1968), "Perris Way" (1968), and "To Jorslem" (1969).
The second novella is less inspired, following our Watcher after he escapes future Rome and travels to future Paris, where he joins a guild of Historians.
But while there, he learns of the collective guilt of humanity, and the reason for the retributive invasion.In the third novella, he becomes a pilgrim and experiences many strange aspects of this future Earth, on the road to future Jerusalem.
Everyone, except the mutant Changelings, belongs to one guild or another -- this is how human civilization reorganized itself after collapse at its technological height - there are Rememberers who unearth and attempt to understand the artifacts of the technologically-advanced past, Defenders who come to the call the Watchers are supposed to raise upon sighting the invaders, Dominators who rule over all, etc.
As a Watcher, the old man mentally scans the cosmos for alien invaders who eons ago placed on a claim on Earth that they have not yet come to collect.
Como las portadas son muy viejunas, he preferido abrir la entrada con una ilustración de Bill Sienkiewicz representando a los 3 personajes de la primera parte de la novela, un mutante, una voladora y un vigía.
La novela está dividida en 3 partes, y en cada una son unos personajes los que acompañan a un único constante.Ni siquiera nombro quien es el constante, porque tampoco es importante en si mismo, lo que importa es el cuando y el porqué.
El primer ciclo es la antigüedad, el segundo ciclo es en el que nos hacemos uno mas dentro de las civilizaciones del universo y donde la audacia y naturaleza humana nos llevan a lo mejor y lo peor.
An old watcher, a female flier, and a changeling travel to Roam.
No longer a watcher, he joins the guild of rememberers and learns the awful secret behind earth’s fall from grace (weather manipulation machines that destroyed the climate’s natural harmony) and how it angered the aliens by capturing their primitive ancestors and displaying them in a zoo.
In exchange for the safety of the blinded prince of Roam, he gives the aliens the location of a video that reveals the fate of their ancestors in the zoo.
She helps him join a new guild, the reformers, which is charged with rebuilding civilization and subverting the alien occupation.
the story takes place in the future of only a shadow of the past world.
The story follows the wanderings of a Watcher as he travels an array of others from Fliers to Changlings to Rememberers.
once the invasion occurs the Watcher no longer bound to watch seeks a new place for himself.
This a story of growing and starting over, not only of the Watcher but of the entire world.
Throughout the story secrets are revelaed and new understandings are made.
This science fiction book is written wonderfully and it is very easy to learn and understand what is happening in this new world.
