https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/230553.The_Assassins
سرد تاريخى علمى بأسلوب غايه فى السلاسه و الرقى سواء من المؤلف او المترجمليس فقط عن فرقة الحشاشين و لكن ايضا عن الشيعه الاسماعيلية بالكامل مع التركيز على الحشاشينجزء مهم من تاريخ الاسلام و المسلمين فى عصور انحطاط الدولة العباسية و الغزو المغولى و الصليبى و تمزق دولة الخلافه بين الترك و السلاجقة و الفاطميين و الغزاه بل و الخليفه العباسى نفسه الذى لم يحكم حتى قصره و ربما غرف نومه العديده
فرقة الحشاشين , او الحشاشون هي جماعة متعصبة اصلها اسلامي شيعي (اسماعيلي) , يتتبعها لويس في كتابه هذا من النشاة في اوئل القرن الحادي عشر الى التلاشي في القرن الثالث عشر.
كتاب جيد , حيادي الى درجة ما , لكن لويس لا يستطيع اخفاء اعجابه بهذه الجماعة , لدرجة قد تؤثر على مصداقية الطرح , انبهار يمكن القول انه طفيف مقارنة بما نجده عند بعض المؤرخين الغرب و الفرس لدرجة تجعلهم كائنات اسطورية احياناً .
الكتاب ممتع لمن يهوى قصص العصور القديمة و الخيال , استمتعت به كـ رواية تاريخية اكثر من كونه كتاب سياسي تاريخي , و حالياً افكاري معلقة عند قلعة آلموت و شخصية حسن الصباح العجيبة .

من قرأ روايه آلموت لفلاديمير باريتول جب أن يتبعها بهذا الكتاب مباشرة حتي لا ينخدع بالأكاذيب و الأوهام المبنيه عن روايات غير حقيقية
فالكاتب برنارد لويس يتحدّث بالدرجة الأولى عن تاريخ الاسماعيليين في ايران و سوريا و مصر و العراق، انما بغرض أساسي هو استعراض تاريخ فرقة الحشاشون و وسائلها العنفية المشابهة لتكتيكات العصابات اللاتينية اليسارية في حركات التحرر الوطنية؛ و هذا بعيد جداً عن مفهوم الثورية القروسطي أو الحديث، او حتى المفهوم الديني بمعنى "تمايز" جذري كفرقة اسلامية (عن السنة في العهد الأموي)، في كون الاطار الدراسي المستعرض في الكتاب تاريخي بالدرجة الاولى، كوفاة الخليفة المستنصر و نموّ الاسماعيليين و توسعهم في عهد حسن الصباح فيما تضعف الدولة الفاطمية، و تحالفاتهم وخلافاتهم مع السلاجقة و الزنكيين و المغول الخ الخ، لا فقهي و ان عرّف و مهّد طبعاً لنشأتها الدينية و اعتقاداتها الأساسية.
قرأته قبل سنواتيعطي فكرة جيدة عن فرقة الحشيشيةالتي تطرق لها أمين معلوف في روايته سمرقند، و كيف نشأت و طقوسها و كيفية التأثير الرهيبة على أتباعهاالكتاب يستحق القراءة
A few quick facts: When the Prophet died he left no direction for the succession of his leadership.
Some followers felt that Ali, cousin of the Prophet would be a better leader.
The first half of the book has been a rapid read of the history of Islamic world after the death of the Prophet.
One of my first thoughts was that this book or ones like it should have been read and studied before the USA stepped into a 1000 year old feud in Iraq.
One of the other reviewers mentioned that the book is tedious.
I find it to be a fast moving history.

Bernard Lewis makes the observation which so few political pundits do nowadays: 'HUMAN SACRIFICE AND RITUAL MURDER HAVE NO PLACE IN ISLAMIC LAW, TRADITION OR PRACTICE'There is no real point of similarity between the Assassins and suicide martyrs.
The Assassins were a fanatical zealots who lived like monks and hungered for death.
Suicide martyrs are fanatical imbeciles who hunger for glory.
I would have like to have seen more accounts of the exploits of the Assassins amidst the array of dates and events.
Other than that, this is an interesting read that does give you an insight into a rare moment in Islamic history when murder and faith became inseparable.
دراسه وافيه عن الفرق الباطنيه واخطارها متمثله فى قرقة الحشاشين من خلال ايضاح عقائدها وشيوخها ومنهجهم واسباب خروجهم عن الخط العام لطائفة الشيعه
. ويدرس المؤلف الظروف المحيطة بنشأة الحشيشية وتوزعها الجغرافي وتنظيماتها وصلاتها بالجماعات الأخرى والتحولات السياسية والفكرية والدينية وممارسة الإغتيال الطقوسي الذي أثار التساؤلات الكثيرة بسبب الغموض الذي يحيط به. ويصف الرحالة والمؤرخون وادي وحصن " الموت" الذي حوله شيخ الطائفة إلى جنة على الأرض ليوهم بها المريدين بأنها جنة الله ليطوعهم كما يريد , وبذالك بدأت الإنحرافات والإغتيالات التي بثت الرعب أيام الحروب الصليبية في الشرق والغرب , لذالك أستحقت هذه الظاهرة الفريدة الدراسة . وقد أختلف المؤرخون والدارسون لهذه الفرقة في أصل التسمية ومعناها " الحشيشية " وأصبحت هذه الكلمة تعني القتل خلسة أو غدرا لفترة طويلة
There are some interesting points that he throws in about how the Ismailis didn't bother to assassinate Hospitalers or Knights Templar: assassinations didn't work against highly structured societies in which the number 2 in command would simply step into command with no break in order; it only worked against fragmented, personality-driven kingdoms that were the norm in the Middle East.
The Ismailis knew this, and didn't waste assassins on them.I don't know enough Islamic religious history to comment on that, though it is important to this book, and Lewis's treatment thereof probably contentious among scholars of Ismailism (a branch/heresy(?) of Shia Islam).What is of note is that the assassins definitely had a religious strain in their motivations.
The Assassins were a highly mythicized group of what were essentially special-ops soldiers of the highest order of the Nizari Ismaili community in Iran and Syria.
Rather, they were trusted members of the community appointed by the leader - Hassan Sabbah in Persia, Rashid ad-Din Sinan in Syria - and trained to infiltrate the courts of Seljuk and Crusader rulers in order to coerce them to not attack Ismaili strongholds in the mountains.Scholars and experts on the Ismaili community have developed new, more accepted theories on the Assassins and what they did.
و صنعت نار عظيمة و ألقي الفدائيين الخمسة فيها و كانوا يهتفون بين صرخات الألم "نموت فداءا لسيدنا علاء
Another book that caught my attention only because I love the Assassin's Creed games.
Yes, this is the same order that inspired the one in the games, though naturally very different.
Telling the real story of the historical Assassins is complicated by relatively sparse documentation, with little coming from the actual Assassins themselves.
As far as I can tell, Lewis did a good job of summarizing what is known, or at least what was known when this was written in the mid 60s.
It feels like it's relatively non-sensational, which is good.
It does get a little dry in the middle, but it's a very short book.

سرد تاريخي جميل وسريع ... يأخذك في جولة للقرون الوسطى تقريبا 800-1400 ميلادي.الحشاشون، طائفة مثيرة للاهتمام جدا بصراحة ... كما مثيرة للدهشة لقدرتها وتنظيمها وعملها على مدى ثلاثة قرون !! (أظن بأن تنظيم فرسان الهيكل استمد فكرته من الحشاشين أنفسهم ربما !(*لكن لفظة "الحشاشون" لفظة غريبة لم يُتّفق فيها على أصل !! وإن اعتقدت بدايا أنها مستمدة من "الحش" أي الجذ والقطع ... بمعنى حش الأرواح @_@
هذا الكتاب ممتع حقا في اسلوب سردهونظامه وتحس فيه مصداقيه تاريخيه وحياديه عاليه من المؤلف الاجنبيالذي يورد دائما كل من التأريخ السني والاسماعيلي لحركة الحشاشيم ويترك للقارئ مساحة الاختيار بعد ان يدلي برأيه
مهم جداً ان نقرأ عن تاريخنا الإسلامي و الأهم ان نقرأ من وجهة نظر محايدة تقدم الحقائق دون الميل لجهة ضد أخرى، و انا اعتقد ان هذا ما حرص عليه برنارد لويس في كتابه ليترك لنا الحكم على هذه الفرقة. سرد بطريقة قصصية غير مملة.
They did certainly practice political terrorism, usually in the form of assassination, or the threat of it, but not because they were crazy, but rather because they were usually in radically disproportionate conflict with the greater powers of the Near East--and, notably, they were often successful, maintaining themselves for centuries.Although the assassins did apparently hope for heavenly reward upon completion of their suicidal missions, they did not do so on the basis of any personal experience.
Rather, they were boys and men brought up in the sect, an offshoot of Islam characterized by radical devotion to a chain of command stretching back to the Prophet himself.
A helpful overview of the history of that remarkable Islamic sect known to popular history as the Assassins.Alas, the secret paradise gardens and the hashish use is almost certainly apocryphal.
I decided to read it when the title cropped up in the footnotes of a number of very recent and well-regarded histories of the Crusades, and I'm glad I followed their lead.
The greater majority of the book confined itself mostly to history, with a few brief interpretive comments appended in the final chapter.
The bulk of THE ASSASSINS is a very helpful précis of the history and exactly what I was looking for.
Dahaöncede eserlerini beğenerek okuduğum Bernard Lewis'in, Alamut ve Hasan El-Sabbah'ıda kaynakçaları ile beraber sade ve abartılarda uzak akademik dille yazıya dökmüş..Vladamir Bartol'un eserindeki abartı ve fantezilerden uzak gerçekçi bir dille ele almış. Haşhaşilerin çıkış öncesi, çıkış dönemi, güçlü dönemi ve kayboluş döneminin şartlarını detaylı bir şekilde kaynakçalarını belirterek anlatmıştır. Vladamir Bartol'un eserindeki kurgusal anlatımını akademik bir dille anlatmıştır.Kısacası, Hasan Sabbah'ı fantezilerden yoksun ve gerçekten tanımak isteyenler için ideal bir eserdir.
الكتاب الاساسي المترجم جيد جدا و سهل بيتميز بأسلوبه الممتع في السرد، لكن اضافة الدكتور سهيل زكار خلته صعب و ثقيل إلي حد ما، لكن علي الرغم من ده فأن اضافات المترجم و ملاحقه حولت الكتاب لموسوعة في الموضوع. انصح بقرائته للمهتمين بالموضوع
من أجمل الكتب التي قراتها عام 2015 .سرد تاريخ حركة الحشاشين منذ نشاتها و حتى اختفاءها .

See  Eric's review for a very cogent and much better description of this book.
My review is kind of cranky.It was a slog, but I do understand now the etymology, origin, ideology, history, and legend of the Ismaili offshoot of Shi'a sect of Islam that gave rise to the Assassins.
The cover blurb says that Lewis traces all this with an "easy, almost conversational" scholarship.
Lewis jumps around in time and place, and repeats some things as he does so.
That would have made understanding the flow of this book much easier.
لو انت مهتم تعرف عن الفرقة الاكثر اثارة للجدل و الرعب في التاريخ الاسلامي اللي هي الحشاشين، او لو ان
history is better than fiction.for all you geeks out there, do you remember the cult of thulsa doom from that schwarzengger conan movie?
well, they were real.
except that none could turn into snakes.
the assassins flourished in the mountains of what are now lebanon and syria around the time of the crusades.the terrified the christian kings.
and were only done in by the mongols.
it can also be said that they invented the suicidal one way political killer.
the book is well written, as are all of lewis's works, but a little thin.
really deserves something more comprehensive.
An account of the medieval Assassins and their political background, as well as the story of how the Assassins were transformed both inside Islam and in Western accounts into a mythical and legend-encrusted death cult that served as a stand-in for any revolutionary group disliked by authors. A complement to Marshall Hodgson's "The Secret Order of Assassins"--- the two books should be read in tandem. As always, Lewis is a fine writer with a gift for untangling complicated political backgrounds.
The history behind the true sect that inspired the very successfull franchise "Assassin's Creed". A deep voyage, from its foundation till the last days, passing through the belifs that separated them from islam, making them "radicals, drunk, drug consumers and terrorists" to the eys of others. In this book we can see their true colours, their discipline and their honour of this ancient medieval warriors, who made leaders and countries tremble to their foundations.
