https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8652190-awakened
ALL THAT I CARE ABOUT IS REPHAIM AND STEVIE RAE. NO ONE ELSE.I THINK I AM IN LOVE WITH A HALF BIRD HALF MAN........WOW.
Zoey annoys me, the way they write Stevie Rae's accent ticks me off (I'm a Southern Girl), Kramisha sounds uneducated (we know she is educated) and the way the Casts portray Jack and Damien suggests that they've never actually met any gay men.
One of the few good things in this book is that Zoey only had one boyfriend this time, but I cannot understand the Casts' obsession with Heath.
Zoey should be with Stark.
Aphrodite is the only good thing about HoN, but she's not enough to keep me interested in reading any more of these.
So, to the Casts: you should have stopped three or four books ago.
In that moment actually when Kalona do that, Zoey and Stark were like having sex and then OMG it was funny *inserts my uncontrollable laughing here* idk when I read that scene I can't stop laughing.
First she lost her virginity to Loren Blake who happen to just have sex with her because he was Neferet's lover and he didn't care about Zoey at all but Zoey thought that Loren loves her and blah blah blah *too lazy to elaborate* and then in this book she had sex with Stark and Kalona (as mentioned above, see Pros #3).
okay i was extremley happy to get my copy of awakened, and was sooooo happy when i read zoey and stark did it (i mean i have had ALOT of fantasies about that, usually with me in zoey's place), but then P.C cast is just going to ruin their relationship by adding this "totally gorgeous" vessel!
Why the fuck is heath back in the story????okay it was sad in Burned blah...blah....blah..
Its fucked up!Heath better sacrifice himself in the last book or something to protect zoey, or i am going to hop inthis damn book and kill him all over again!
After the last book, I am so excited for this one. Stark and Zoey are definately going to end up together. No doubt about it. But Stevie Rae and Rephaim. I want Rephaim to turn into that boy he was in Aphrodite's vision. Stevie Rae deserves to be with the one she loves! Ugh. Neferet and Kalona. No one likes them, but even after everything that's happend, I can't help but feel bad for Kalona. He's stuck with Neferet forever. Could his punishment get any worse?
There is only one major scene in Awakened where Damien, Jack and all the gang are together and it is shockingly bad- every sentence is mentioning that they're gay- we get it, we've known for the last eight books!
We're on book eight and Zoey still can't let go of Heath yet at the same time she has no problem going with some other guy.
Zoey gets everything she wants in this book and acts like a spoiled five year old!
And this book is going date so bad!
Are twelve books to long for one series?
Were there that many pop-culture references in the previous books?Apparently Stevie Rae (and all the others in the book) have always been like that.
One of which is why do pop culture references work in some books but not in others (here)?
At, ako lang ba ang naka-feel na napaka-pilit ng pag-lay ng groundwork sa GLBT lit?
Levithan team-ups ay ang "matter of fact treatment" ng topic na ito, pero sa Awakened feeling ko "laying the groundwork" towards the demise of one charry lang ito...
If this is supposed to be Rephaim then why does he have a nose?
It clearly states in one of the books he has a beak?
I'm starting to think this is Kalona.
Dang.
Hopefully Stevie Rae and Stark get their happy endings and I hope to god that Dallas electrecutes himself.
That if Zoey hurts Stark by getting involved with other boys I am going to kick her mortal butt.
Heath is dead, The Poet guy is dead, and stupid Eric is out of the picture.
No more guys!
Just a healthy relationship between Z and Stark.
I want this just so I can take a dump on it and mail it back to the Cast family!!!Seriously, worst series ever!
The House of Night was the first vampire book series I had read and while it has a good plot, I feel like the books have spiraled down to disappointment since Untamed released.
*Eyeroll* Back in Tulsa is where something horrible happened that brought me to the edge of tears (but I never cry at books - I just get seriously pissed): Jack dies.
The characters that annoyed me most in this book: Stevie Rae, Aphrodite, Kramisha, Neferet, Zoey, Stark, and Dragon.
It took him killing Heath in front of her to finally accept he truly was evil.A lot of people dismiss her messing around with different guys because it's acceptable for a High Priestess to have a warrior, a human consul, and a vampire lover.
The world is falling into chaos but Zoey likes to spend most of her thinking time mooning over how troublesome it is to juggle boyfriends.Oh man, I could go on but really shouldn't.The supporting characters helped but as the series progressed they became less important.
It's especially exhilarating when you have a protagonist like Zoey to take a break from.I loved Stevie Rae's relationship with Rephaim.
Another one? :/
i can't wait till this book comes out! im so excited.i would love to see more stevie rae & rephaim.i just love that nothing can break them apart.not him being apart of darkness.and the fact that she follows light.i just think its so adorable!CANT WAIT!!!!best books i've ever read.and i dont just say that for any book.but wow.. what a wonderful series.i hope theres more books after this 8th one.i dont want it to end!it definaitly beats the twilight series.and thats a serious statement.

However, that's how the Casts decide to kill off a character that essentially has had less airtime than Zoey Redbird's cat.A part of me is naive enough to state that the Casts are just uber fans of the show Glee, but then I read shit like this where the Casts bitch about how their shitty series wasn't given a plug on the show and I'm like not uber fans..more like uber sell outs.2) The Casts don't believe that people need to be emotionally ready for sex.
3,5 Sterne
but by the looks of it, the authors will probably churn out 8 more books before this series ends.
And why bother with bringing Heath back when the awesomeness that is James Stark is already with Zoey?
If the authors decide to make Stark bad again just to make Heath look good, I'm done with this series.
It seemed like the authors were willing to make everyone else stupid just so they could get on with the story.
And that may also be the reason why this series isn't ending any time soon, recycled characters and story lines be damned.
The biggest overkill for me is Kalona bird man immortal warrior and his bitch deity Neferet.
You wanna know this book's life saver?Aphrodite and Darius they are such a great team.
I hope the two of them doesn't "die".
And again I hope they dont "die".Oh I almost forgot...
I really wanna scream this at Zoey while she was on VACATION."WHADDA FUCK ZOE!
NEFERET IS PLOTTING SOMETHIN WHILE YOU AND STARK ARE PUMPING AWAY UNDER A TREE!
*blush* sorry I got a little carried away there.
I just really wanna let it out
3.5 Sterne :)
Read in Jan 2011I’d been eagerly awaiting this book's release and while I enjoyed it, I found I didn’t love it like I was excepting to.
I love complex storylines, but I’m beginning to feel like there’s too much going on with this series at times.
It’s really hard to read a series when you don’t like the main character.
He loved Jack so much and it’s heart-breaking that he lost him.I LOVED what transpired between Stevie-Rae and Rephaim.
I loved the moment when Stevie-Rae let everyone know about her and Rephaim.
That meeting and caring about Stevie-Rae the way he does makes him want to be different.
Full review at: https://jazza1997.wixsite.com/thebook...I felt this book was a little left to be desired as it took a while to get straight to the point of the plot. I found that it took 26 chapters just to tell us that Zoey’s Mother is killed by Neferet as well as Jack. But the book did leave me questioning if Neferet’s past was the reason why she turned to darkness instead of light. I did enjoy the different point of views used to tell different sides of the story.I still remain open minded to the series even though it’s been quite underwhelming.
Jedva čekam serijal privesti kraju. Nažalost, razvodnilo se, kao i mnogi s puno nastavaka.
This book annoyed me in ways I didn't think were possible.
Was I really thinking that this book would be any better than the last one?
Instead, let me just sum up the entire experience for you with one example of the bizarro hell that is...Awakened.(view spoiler)[ Jack, the requisite bubbly sweet gay guy (for the record I'd like to see more surly gay guys in literature.
I'm just saying.) gets the axe in this book.
A song that he heard on the tv show, Glee.
So how do I know it's from Glee?
'Cause that's what it says in the book.
The bad guys are not respecting her wish for a happy holiday so Zoey will eventually have to get back into the actionMeanwhile the redemption of Rephraim continues, because what’s a little murder when you’ve decided a guy is going to be your freaky birdy love interest?Zoey spends a lot of this book hanging out on the Isle of Skye-author-isn’t-quite-sure-about-the-difference-between-Ireland-and-Scotland-but-likes-guys-in-kilts (Scotland doesn’t use Euros) deciding she wants to take a time out because it’s all so sad and hard and everyone else tries to think of ways to get her back into the action.
Then it goes downhill.This book starts with Neferet having sex with some random warrior.
Continuing with socially unacceptable sexual practices, Kalona, Rephaim's father, discovers that he has a connection to Stark, Zoey's sex toy.
Now we're talking statutory rape/rape (Zoey did not give Kalona permission to enjoy sex with her via Stark's mind).
With four more books in the series to be written, I implore the authors to PLEASE develop a social conscience and 1) write better characters 2) stop insulting the reader with such garbage and stereotypes and 3) take writing workshops.
Opinião no blogue: https://thegirlwhoreadssbooks.wordpre...
i cant wait it has to be amazingIm going to start this one tonight:)
What 'Awakened' suffers from and what I fear will become a trend in the series, is being too much of not enough; the important parts of this book could have been summed up in a few chapters, everything else feels superfluous.The same issues are present in this book as with every House Of Night book before it; the abuse of pop-culture references, the language and utter disregard for decent grammar, and the apparent lack of proofreading and/or editing.Off the top, I remember several references to 'Glee,' 'True Blood,' and the iPhone 4, and that's not all of it.
Neferet has returned to lead the Tulsa House of Night after being exonerated by the High Council, and she continues to grow stronger with Kalona now under her control.
The major conflict remains Neferet and Kalona, with little change, and predictable plot outcomes continue.
The relationship between Stevie Rae and Rephaim remains interesting, and character development occurs in Rephaim, a bit in Kalona, and even a little bit in Erik.
If I do, I hope the Casts move beyond the set conflict or kick it up a notch, along with some significant character growth for Zoey and her friends.
It seems pretty bitchy that Zoe after sleeping with another guy decided that he's the immature one because he's jealous of her several boy toys.
goddess or not stringing along several guys is bad.
There is no reason that she shouldn't have told her mom that she wasn't dead and her mother sounds more like a wise sage than a southern gal which is how she was described earlier.
It dosen't make any sense at this point and makes them look nothing like the wise guardians that they are suppose to be.
You can't have it both ways and just pretend that they don't see what's going on.
