https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/384749.Great_Northern_A_Scottish_Adventure_of_Swallows_Amazons
Loon = Great Northern Diver and that's the centerpiece of the FINAL and TWELFTH volume of the wonderful Swallows and Amazons outdoor juvenile adventure series.
Oh, how sad it is to say farewell to the fictional characters whose lives and adventures wrap up in Scotland.The Walkers, the D's, and the Blacketts along with Captain Flint (Nancy and Peggy Blackett's uncle) have one final adventure together, though Dick and his natural history curiosity and scientific knowledge anchor the plot.Dick has sighted a nesting pair of birds -- but how could they be Great Northern Divers?
As a child these were my favourite books, I loved stories of adventure and my family holidayed in the English Lake District where these books are set so I knew the places they visited.Whilst on holiday I would imagine meeting the Swallows and Amazons on every lake.
At school my friends and I would play Swallows and Amazons.
My best friend Sarah and I, being the only ones who were truly obsessed by the books would take charge and we would, of course, be the Amazons.

I loved this book on so many levels! The writing is excellent as always. I love each and every character to distraction. The plot is full of suspense and surprises. It was wonderful to see Dick, the Ship's Naturalist, finally getting some credit and recognition! It was bittersweet to read this, knowing that it is the last book of the series, and now all the adventures are truly over. I wish the ending had been more drawn out; it ended abruptly, and I could have used at least a paragraph or two more wrapping everything up.
Well, except for the two more fantasy books in the series (Missy Lee and Peter Duck), we've listened to the entire series, read by the wonderful Alison Larkin. I wish I'd read these as a kid. I would have loved them in a different way from how I love them now, with the shared experience with my 10-year-old son. It would have added another layer. But anyway, to young or old I can recommend the whole series.
I think it is one of the best in the series, it was fun to read.
This is the final Swallows and Amazons book that Arthur Ransome completed before his death, and it seems fitting that this includes all of the central characters - the Swallows, Amazons, Dick, Dorothea and even Captain Flint.This story takes the actions to the Scottish Highlands, where Dick discovers some nesting birds with eggs, which he believes to be the rare Great Northern diver.
A complete change of scenery and tonality for the final entry into the Swallows and Amazons.
This book sees the Swallows, Amazons, Ds and Cptn Flint on their final days of a sailing trip to the Hebrides of Scotland.The book is a masterclass in taking a very simple plotline and unravelling it for four hundred pages.
In fact the book ends rather abruptly, which leaves the reader feeling slightly melancholy that this final chapter in the lives of the Swallows and Amazons et al did not end in some great climactic feast and rousing ending.
A fine and fitting conclusion to one of the best young adult series ever. Ransome's skill is to capture the magic of childhood adventures with spare, direct prose and deft characterization and plotting. The conservationist message that had become a significant theme of some of the later books in the series here reaches its fruition, as the intrepid Swallows, Amazons, and Ds outwit a ruthless collector of bird eggs and skins. The conclusion is moving, while being delicately underplayed, as all Ransome's great scenes are. Now it's time to start the whole series over again!
Growing up the Swallows and Amazons series by Arthur Ransome was one of my favorite series. When I decided to re-read it as an adult I was worried that it would not stand the test of time. I was delighted to find that in general found it just as enjoyable now as I did as a child. The characters, writing style and adventures are great and I truly enjoyed the series.
Delightful children's adventure set in the Outer Hebrides on a sailboat and involving birds.
LF - STPlaceholder
In Great Northern?, though, Dick has his chance to take center stage.
Though this book was not necessarily intended to be the last about these characters, I found it a fitting ending to Roger’s story, as he spends more time on his own, and even has a chance of saving the day when everyone else is captured by the Gaels.
and each of the other books in the Swallows and Amazons series to middle grade readers interested in adventure, nature, and sailing, and especially to those sophisticated readers who can truly recognize and appreciate great writing.
Ransome didn't introduce them properly, and I never really did get to know who they all were or where they were all from.
But having said all that, I like the general atmosphere of the book, and the plot (though sometimes it did feel like they were going about everything in a most frustrating manner and could have avoided getting into so much trouble if they had more sense.
Because there is no great depth to the writing, there will be no new discoveries to make with each re-reading.
I don't feel like I am any better off for having read it.
I love all of Arthur Ransome's children's books in the Swallows and Amazons series.
This is a great book for children and adult lover's of children's literature.
As in all the Arthur Ransome books, the kids go off on their own and have adventures.
But not all adults are bad.In Great Northern, the ship's Naturalist, Dick, discovers some rare birds in a "loch" along the coast of Scotland.
The book is charmingly illustrated by the author, as are all the Arthur Ransome books.Each book can be read individually, out of order, but it would be good, especially with children, to start at the beginning.
The plot is excellent and Ransome captures the sense of place really well.
But it's Dick, crouched uncomfortably in his netted hide, watching the Great Northern Divers for hour after hour, that sticks in the mind.There are lots of loose ends at the finish - we don't find out what the laird did, or what happened with the egg collector, and we don't travel home with the Sea Bear.
Ransome is good at ending in exactly the right place and I think the only reason that in this case, it doesn't feel quite right, is because this is the end.
I know we have a fragment, Coots in the North, but in practice this is where our adventures with Arthur Ransome finish.
I found this the least satisfying.
Almost as though Ransome had got tired of writing the stories.In this last, although there was a part written story, the Swallows, Amazons and Scarabs reform on a cruising holiday with Captain Flint around the Scottish coast.A bit of a one trick pony about a nasty egg collector attempting to steal the eggs of a protected bird, the Great Northern of the title and them trying to stop him.
An excellent last book in the Swallows and Amazons series.
I read a few of these as a child and they remain firm favourites of mine.
I love the details of the sailing and how the children build their own imaginative worlds, always on the search for adventure.
As a child, circumstances were such that I couldn't get my hands on the whole series - so I bought the lot a few years ago and have treated myself to one a year.
It's a bittersweet moment now, reading the last of the series, but I thoroughly enjoyed it.
Jib-booms and Bobstays, Swallow and Amazons forever!

I found and read the Swallows and Amazons series in my early 20s. I am only sorry I did not find them earlier. Stories of the family's summer adventures are beautifully written, and encourage responsible and creative living. Self reliance, intelligent reasoning skills, and strong imagination with these children provide an excellent backdrop for this series of books, as well as strong roll-models for any youngsters reading them.
We're so sad to say goodbye to all the great characters we've grown to love in these books. We did skip the more "fantasy" installments (Peter Duck and Missee Lee), so we'll go back and read those, but really this was the end of the great adventures. What a ride! I think these will be a big part of Logan's memories of his childhood.
Oh blast, is this really the last of the Swallows and Amazons? I want more! The S&A and D&D are in fine form again, in this sailing and birding adventure. On a self-congratulatory side note, I was pleased to find I recognized the Great Northern Diver as the Common Loon, based on Ransome's drawings (thanks, Mr. Hubley!).
Twelfth and last of the Swallows & Amazons series--and Captain Flint is back. Set on a Scottish island, with one of those unnecessarily intricate plots Nancy Beckett so loved, this is a good finish to the series--still delightful, but you can tell it is coming close to self-parody.
Dick takes center stage in this wonderful final chapter in the lives (as we know them) of the Swallows, Amazons, and Scarabs (D's). I shall miss these explorers, pirates, artist, writers, and scientist, sailors all.
My favourite Swallows and Amazons adventure, possibly because it is set in my home country! Ransome beautifully captures the remote wildness of the Scottish Highlands and fills it with one of his most exciting adventures. My favourite children's author in my favourite part of the world...
I love the whole Swallows & Amazons series! But what I'd really like to do is read them all in order -- I didn't recognize some of the characters nor did I know why they were on this sailing trip. But since I don't have all the books, & they're quite difficult to come by ...
The last in the fabulous _Swallows and Amazons_ series stars Dick Callum, who identifies a rare bird, the Great Northern Diver, usually a North American bird, which was not known to nest in Scotland before.
This one takes a while to get going, but then it's really really exciting! It's the last completed novel of the series and leaves me very thirsty for more.
Oh, wow.
Swallows and Amazons forever!But sadly the last in the series.
