https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22489107-fairest
“She cried for the girl who had never belonged. A girl who tried so hard, harder than anyone else, and still never had anything to show for it.” 4 1/2 stars. This is easily my favourite book of the series. Well... so far, but I find it hard to imagine that Winter will top this.I enjoyed this book immensely and I had the feeling beforehand that it would be the villain's story that affected me most. There's just something really great about reading the stories behind the villains, finding out why
so far, but I find it hard to imagine that Winter will top this.I enjoyed this book immensely and I had the feeling beforehand that it would be the villain's story that affected me most.
This book doesn't actually take away any of the crazy, evil villainy from Levana, but it does offer convincing (and seriously disturbing) reasons as to why she became the way she is.
You still don't like her, you still know she is batshit crazy, and yet there is something so sad and tragic about this story.Young Levana is smart, ambitious, and desperately in need of love that she never got from her parents or sister.
She's definitely not a likable character, but I do understand her better now.
I also better understand the dynamics between Levana and Cinder and Winter, which was great!I think the best reading order would be publication order (Cinder, Scarlet, Cress, Fairest, Winter) just because Fairest has some minor spoilers for the previous books.
And while you could probably skip Fairest and still be able to thoroughly enjoy The Lunar Chronicles, it was still a very interesting and captivating read (I flew through it in one sitting!)Bottom line: Definitely recommended if you like The Lunar Chronicles!
It was gripping, dark, and just plain fascinating to get a closer look at such a twisted character.
this book honestly didn't do much for me, other than confirming how terrible levana is.
I'll be reviewing this book through Bubbles. See my post here on The Social Potato!
An absolutely essential read.Rarely (and I do mean  rarely ) does a companion novel enhance, improve and brings another dimension the original set.  Fairest does all that and more.Lunars (the advanced civilization living on the moon) can manipulate what you see and think through bioelectric energy. Princess Levana (age 15) is neurotic about maintaining her glamour at all times due to a disfiguring "accident" caused by her older sister, Channery, a decade ago. Through tantalizing tidbits, we lear
Princess Levana (age 15) is neurotic about maintaining her glamour at all times due to a disfiguring "accident" caused by her older sister, Channery, a decade ago.
When their parents die, Channery is crowned queen and all Levana can think is how she could do it better.
This book really delved into her motives and brought her to life as a fully realized three-dimensional being.Levana is a deliciously evil character through and through - and while this book is not necessary to understand the original quartet, it certainly brings new light to the veiled villain.
Buddy read with amazing Tanya (:YES._________________When I decided to read this book, I did it having in mind every other book in this series: funny, compelling and perfectly okay stories. That would explain why I was really not expecting the level of creepiness, weirdness and are-you-fucking-kidding-me-ness this book had to offer.  She hated mirrors. Hated their reflections, their truths.  Among Meyer's characters, Levana is definelty the most complex one. I could easily describe the evil quee
When it comes to villains, I can deal with evil.
She's insecure, pitiful, broken and completely alone and even if I didn't sympathize with her, I think I felt sorry for her in an almost I hope you die kinda way.I must say I'm grateful it wasn't about understanding Levana and eventually sympathizing with her.
I felt it was too short or maybe the ending was too abrupt and, as Tanya was saying, it's a shame we don't get to see the cold blooded bitch queen we've come to know and love but just the immature and infatuated little girl longing for love.
Book 24/100 of 2015WOW SO GOOD! I really shouldn't like nor sympathize with Levana, kind of made me! Well...not exactly like, but definitely understand who she is and why she ended up that way. The pacing was great and I was never bored, which should be expected as it is only 222 pages. I also liked that we got a whole backstory for Cinder and Winter as well! I CAN'T WAIT UNTIL WINTER IS RELEASED
I don't know the word count, but I did the math (with a calculator, and everything), and even excluding the preview of WINTER that begins at 79%, Levana's story is still over 200 pages.FYI.And regardless, any fan of the series will want to read this book, b/c:1.
It cleverly weaves together multiple threads from the characters that readers have grown to know and love in previous installments of THE LUNAR CHRONICLES, and reveals, step-by-murderous-and-entitled-step, how Levana and her immediate family have sown the seeds of their own inevitable downfall.
Winter (The Lunar Chronicles, #4)
2.5 ish maybe?Kind of wish I had skipped this one. I wasn't a fan of the back story, it just seemed unoriginal and on top of that there was a scene that made me very uncomfortable because it is essentially in every way rape unless I misunderstood? I don't know. Just not worth the read for me.
I think it will take away a lot and you'll enjoy the series a lot more if you read books 1-3 before this one!(view spoiler)[ I understand that Levana is scared (on the inside and outside) and that's greatly changed who she is.
So ironic that Cinder's mom had already thought of their marriage...When Winter and her father were reading the children's story, and she goes, "Why does the Prince always save the Princess?
and that's kind of what Cinder is now doing!Why do you guys think that Levana ruined Winter's face?
"Mirror, mirror on the wall.Who is the most INSANE FUCKING PSYCHO BITCH of them all?" (a direct quote)So, this is basically what happened to me while reading this book:me, before reading fairest: piss off levana god i hate this fucking noodleme, 25 pages in: PROTECT HER!!!!!!!!me, after reading fairest: yeah she can chokei feel like the actual Evil Queen here is Marissa Meyer for putting me through this form of emotional abuse, i hope from the depths of my black sinner heart that she can't slee
"Mirror, mirror on the wall.Who is the most INSANE FUCKING PSYCHO BITCH of them all?" (a direct quote)So, this is basically what happened to me while reading this book:me, before reading fairest: piss off levana god i hate this fucking noodleme, 25 pages in: PROTECT HER!!!!!!!!me, after reading fairest: yeah she can chokei feel like the actual Evil Queen here is Marissa Meyer for putting me through this form of emotional abuse, i hope from the depths of my black sinner heart that she can't sleep at night thinking about what she's done to all the poor souls that decide to read Fairest because 'oh that sounds interesting'.
Mirror, Mirror on the wall ~ Who's the fairest of them all Well, it sure as hell isn't evil Levana!
I can see where Levana turned evil from all she went through from childhood etc.
But she didn't have to turn evil, it just takes over if you let it.
I did not read the first few chapters that were added from Winter.
I'm waiting for my pre-order in November and the way time flies, that will not be long!
And I absolutely love the name Winter!
It's my favorite time of year so of course.
I don't often read novellas, but this one is a bit longer than average and completely worth it to be able to see Levana's childhood and how she grew up to be who she is.
It also gives us a glimpse at our beloved characters' childhood so we get a real 360 look at what happened in the past.
Despite her evil ways and sometimes shocking delusions, Levana's story is just plain sad.
While I won't ever sympathize with her, it make us at least understand the "why" behind her actions, her wants.Even though this novella is ultimately a character study, we also get to see the plot of the whole series take root.
We stan constantly scheming, purely cruel female villains o n l y.So I was prepared from the get-go not to like this book, which promises to explain why Levana is the way she is and depict her as a person or whatever.
But also this was worse than I possibly could have imagined.This does a very bad job of explaining why Levana is the way she is or making her seem like a person at all.
OMG! Talk about a book that makes you feel (a bit) sorry for the psychotic villain in all the other books!Are you reading the Lunar Chronicles? Yes?Then this is a Must-Read. No, you can't  skip it because it's a novella ...and let me tell you why, ok?First, this sets up EVERYTHING that happens in the rest of the Lunar Chronicles. It's the prequel that doesn't suck. Second, you get to find out about the past that Cinder forgot. You know what I'm talking about, right?No?Then you need to go read th
Talk about a book that makes you feel (a bit) sorry for the psychotic villain in all the other books!Are you reading the Lunar Chronicles?
Yes?Then this is a Must-Read.
...and let me tell you why, ok?First, this sets up EVERYTHING that happens in the rest of the Lunar Chronicles.
You know what I'm talking about, right?No?Then you need to go read the other books.
Now.Third, it sets you up for the upcoming 
I wanted to hug her, then slap her, then pat her on the head, then stab her repeatedly, and then give her a band-aid...maybe.You need to read her story!Besides, it's over 200 pages, so you're definitely getting your money's worth out of this.
I've read 3 books by Marissa Meyer and they just get better and better (which is awkward since I rated Cinder 5-stars and all the rest 5-stars so...I NEED MORE STARS, CLEARLY).
Fairest made me pity and loathe Levana all at once.
I felt it took me 10 or so pages to really get into it...but I wasn't sure if it's because I haven't been in Lunar land for so long OR if the beginning felt draggy.
But Levana is downright creepy.
YOU NEED TO READ THIS BOOK.
And while I pity Levana, I still hate her.
I'm feeling so many emotions right now and it's absurdly late, and I'm just trying to process it all.
So, hence the four stars.I just feel so sorry for everyone in this story!
He was so honorable and always wanted to do the right thing and he loved his wife and his daughter so much and it was just so heart breaking to see Levana manipulating and tormenting him the way she did.
And yet, I think the scene where Channary forced Levana to burn herself with mind control was even worse.
*makes devastating sobbing noises and cries myself to sleep*• • • • • • • • • • • • • • 1.11.2014.I don't know why, but she'll forever be my queen Levana• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • OH MY FREAKING GOD LEVANA IS COMING  LEVANA IS COMING  IT'S ALL I'VE EVER BEEN WAITING FORTHIS IS REALLY HAPPENING Young Cinder and Winter. Dr. Erland. Love. Death. This story will kill me.
Holy crap.My favorite character in the Luner Chronicles is getting a full length novel all to herself. Nothing but cruel Levanna for 256 pages. And full-coloured art. COLOURED ART, PEOPLE.
Love is a conquest. Love is a war.Here is what I think of love. Blurb: Mirror, mirror on the wall,Who is the fairest of them all?Queen Levana is a ruler who uses her “glamour” to gain power. But long before she crossed paths with Cinder, Scarlet, and Cress, Levana lived a very different story – a story that has never been told . . . until now. Now this was interesting.As you may or may not, Levana is one of my favorite characters in the Lunar Chronicles series. I just enjoy reading her and watc
She’s traumatized by her older sister, often being the focus of her attacks and without being able to do anything about it but endure it silently.It’s really hard to think of this Levana as the evil queen we all know when she isn’t half as bad but shit happens and while she chose, at the beginning, not to be like her sister, her own heart betrayed her and her ambition grew and grew until she was able to pretty much ripped her own heart out to get she wanted.She was a very lonely girl who didn’t know what love truly was and all her life she’s been with her “glamour” on, making her look nothing like her scarred self at all, the only love she could find was a manipulative one.
It's official, Levana is bat shit crazy!
Think that about sums it up.
I'm actually really torn about how I feel about this book.
I went into it thinking I was going to get a backstory and then in turn understand why Levana is the way she is.
Instead my heart actually hurts for those who have been so unfortunate to ever cross paths with the crazy woman.
Is this story a necessary read to fully enjoy the rest of the series?
No I don't think so.
But I did fully enjoy being inside Levana's twisted mind nonetheless.
Yet another extremely outstanding story.
I'm slowly turning into a fan, an adept and an evangelist of M.M., I think!Q:She tried to distract herself by planning who she would be that day.
A thousand possibilities floated before her.
(c)Q:Levana knew a great deal about beauty, just as she knew a great deal about ugliness.
(с)Q:It calmed her, sinking into the glamour.
(c)Q:She was a beautiful fool, though, which was the worst kind.
(c)Q:The stronger Luna’s economy grew, the more Levana wanted.She cried now because she wanted so very, very much.She wanted everything for her people.She wanted Earth.She needed Earth.All of it.
“Levana knew a great deal about beauty, just as she knew a great deal about ugliness.”I liked reading  Fairest  to pass the time waiting for Winter.
But I just loved Winter.Marissa Meyer demonstrates again how she can build fantastic worlds and interesting characters from nothing.
It was intriguing reading about the Lunar world, especially from the bad guys POV.
I would have preferred reading the final installment at that time.
Especially because it made the mysterious and evil Queen Levana less mysterious (but not less evil) and took some of my curiosity for Luna away.All in all, I still really liked it.Find more of my books on Instagram
I am so sad. This absolutely broke me. I definitely recommend reading this if you love the series because you get such an interesting insight into Levana's character. She is so so so so evil :(
Honestly, Fairest blew me away.After reading Cress two months ago and getting highly disappointed by it, my excitement for Winter decreased.
I wasn't even planning on reading Fairest.
It was absolutely heart breaking and I hated Levana for it, in addition to a bunch of other messed up things which solidified my hate for her.
I know some people say it doesn't matter if you read this novella before or after Winter, but I highly recommend you do read it before Winter as it gives background history for Winter and it gets you really excited for the book (if you aren't excited already!).
Re-reading because I have just enough time to fit in this craziness before Winter Okay....bumped up 1/2 star because it is brilliant even if it is difficult to be in Levana's head for that long.
She is so broken there is no chance of redemption anywhere.*sobs for Evret*First Read Jan 20153.5 Self Loathing StarsThe best villains are the ones that can rationalize and don’t believe they are the bad person, the ones that in a way you can sympathize with.
I’m really excited for Winter since one of my favorite books of all times involves a crazy princess.
I found this to be a fascinating look into Queen Levana.
Now I really liked her whole point of view, her thoughts and feelings, but some of the stuff she did was just plain fucking monstrous and no matter what she went through, does not excuse what she fucking did.
(view spoiler)[Forcing a man to love her, taking the glamour of his dead wife, manipulating and twisting his feelings and thoughts, and trying to burn a fucking 3 year old.
(hide spoiler)]My friends that read this felt a little sympathetic for her for what she went through, but to be honest, I was quite bored.
Call me heartless, but I was just bored and couldn't give a flying fuck about what she went through.
It starts out as a sympathetic tale of Levana who was mistreated by her older sister and lost both of her royal parents to an assassin.
Not only does she abuse her political power, but also she uses her gift of glamour to make herself look like his late wife and basically forces him to bed and marry her.
It’s all kinds of messed up.Her older sister dies in a tragic slut-shaming accident, leaving Levana in charge of the Lunar people.
As her political power grows, so does her hunger to control everyone’s view of her.
“Love is a conquest! Love is war!”  Watching The Huntsman last month seemingly reminded me of this book. Fairest is a companion novel of The Lunar Chronicles series, and yes, this book is Levana's story. So you can be sure that when you pick this book up, darkness is behind you and prepares to consume you alive. “She cried for the girl who had never belonged. A girl who tried so hard, harder than anyone else, and still never had anything to show for it.”  Levana is a multidimensional character.
Fairest is a companion novel of The Lunar Chronicles series, and yes, this book is Levana's story.
And Fairest will shatter your soul and pull you into the deepest part of the question 'what makes human so corrupt when everyone always has chances to choose their paths freely'.I was listening to Halsey's album while reading and it was very fit to the vibe of this book.
Fairest is a good book added to the series and makes it whole, but some parts got me bored and I had to stop reading to do the other things while I read this book the first time.
