https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/479266.The_Irrational_Season
This is the third Crosswick Journal.
It is a walk of thoughts through the church year.
It some ways it is a departure from the first two, more abstract, not quite as personal, but in other ways it is very, very personal.
The book is scattered with Madeleine's poems.
At times reading someone's own poetry seems embarrassing, as if they are probably not very good, but I found these poems to be mostly thoughtful and deep, and with excellent tempo.I feel a great affinity and kindredness with Madeleine.
I don't always agree with her conclusions but I find them well worth reading.
This is my least favorite of L'Engle's books.
Her faith is so evident in all her writing, but this one gives me twinges of religiosity.
Not that she's got all the answers to the great mysteries, she's too wise for that!
Instead, she lays out all her questions, and I feel as if I'm reading the spiritual musings from her journal.
Rather, that she cut and pasted the church bits, and this is the first draft of another Austin story.Deja vu, we've seen all of this before, but in the final versions.
L'Engle's life and times are interwoven through all her stories, and it's so much better that way.
I find myself needing to reread them every so often just to be reminded that there are juicy words like anamnesis and eschaton and pusillanimous and that one could refer to a houseful of neighborhood kids as a “charm of children.” I turn and return to Madeleine L’Engle because her thoughts remind me that there is a Truth that can be expressed in poetry as well as in memoir and that manages to be both orthodox and startling.On the subject of God — the Creator of a world that now includes “battlefields and slums and insane asylums” — Madeleine expresses both puzzlement and awe.
Finally! My dad and I just finished this today. It's L'Engle, so we liked it. I don't agree with everything she says, and I don't like all her poems, but this book is easy to read, and the parts that are good are really good! I love that L'Engle isn't afraid to get personal and to share her own experiences with faith and doubt to help her readers. She genuinely cares, which shows in her fiction and in her nonfiction, and this is what makes her so special.
I enjoyed this year-long read from Madeleine L'Engle, even when it covered difficult topics (death, loss of faith, hatred).
While I don't belong to the same type of church as she did, I'm sure we agree on more than not, and it is encouraging to read the different perspectives that still revolve around the same faith.
I didn't always "get" the connection between each chapter and the calendar event, and sometimes the essays rambled a bit, but overall I found enough to glean from here to make it worth the read.
This book just wasn't for me at the moment. Too meandering, too much a jumble. Too many sentences starting with 'and' or 'but'. (Normally, I would be the last person in the world to notice something like that, but it was so irritatingly excessive.) I remember really enjoying the first Crosswicks a few years ago, but this one didn't work for me. I felt like Madeline was either railing at God, or stalwartly insisting on the unknowableness of things, or inventing her own theology to suit her feelings.
The chapters of this book follow the calendar of the Christian church year (probably Episcopalian). Although I've read the whole book before, I'm looking foward to reading each chapter at its "proper time."
Either 4.5 or 5 stars. Not completely decided yet. Full review to come.
I absolutely LOVE the way Madeleine L'Engle writes about faith, love, church and community. The way she speaks of metaphor and poetry is so beautiful too. She wrote this book decades ago and yet it is so timeous, on a personal as well as a wider level.
This is Madeleine L'Engle the theologian. Not a quick or easy read, each chapter has to be digested and ruminated upon. I was fascinated and challenged and am sure I will refer back to it as my thoughts evolve.
Here are some of my favorite passages:It is the nature of love to create, and no matter what we do to creation, that love is still there, creating; in the young man who is holding his jacket closed across his chest; in you; in me.
p. 14Because it is the nature of love to create, a marriage itself is something which has to be created, so that, together, we become a new creature....To marry is the biggest risk in human realtions that a person can take.
"But Jesus was us: isn't that the whole point?
It is the kind of book I want to buy several copies of to pass around to friends.Originally, written in the mid 70's when L'Engle was in her 50's, it is similar to a personal spiritual diary.
We sing them every week during Liturgy and Irrational Season gave me new things to meditate upon.My only difficulty was her frequent reference to "the failure of God" when speaking of the cross.
Oh, not that she gives away deep dark family secrets, but there is a kindness in her writing that speaks like a friend.
I wonder if we "non-denominationals" lose something when we reject the traditions in the church.
I love how Madeleine receives so much from "simple" things like communion and the prayer book (which I personally find STIFLING).Madeleine is someone who inspired me.
I feel like all you read is Madeleine L'Engle!" LOL.Well, all I read is certainly not Madeleine L'Engle, but I learn a lot from her, this book being no exception.
And I'm grateful that she was published, and that my library carries copies of her books, because she has convicted me.
I have adored L’Engle’s writing ever since I stumbled across A Wrinkle In Time as a young girl.
I have heard rave reviews about The Crosswicks Journal for several years.
Every friend who raved about The Crosswicks Journal is married and a mother.
It is no wonder they viscerally related to L’Engle’s words.
It is no wonder I did not.Now I hasted to add there is much I can learn from someone’s thoughts about being married and a mother.
Though it will never be a favorite of mine, I could finally see why my friends loved this book.
Its been a while since I've read L'Engle, and I'm finding her writing still potent, this book in the autobiographical vein and tied closely to Time, especially the Calendar of the Church Year.
I also am aware I've now experienced one visit to the northeastern U.S. and the geography similar to what she is writing in, which gives me another door into her experience.
I was influenced strongly by her writing as a practicing Episcopalian; the Sunday after I read this book I abandoned my Anabaptist practice and went to an Episcopal church, knowing there would be Eucharist and my participation in it would be welcomed.
What a disappointing end to this sequence of books.
It was simply uninteresting to me, completely boring.
It felt like a religious tract, one that was very narrow in that it only applied if you had the exact same variant of Christianity as L'Engle and completely unpersuasive and boring for anyone else.
She just goes on and on, only even occasionally tossing in a story...and not even good ones compared to the previous books.
She didn't have enough material for another volume and just went ahead anyway.
Just very disappointed compared to the other two volumes.

Read, but re-reading as of this advent season.
L'Engle always speaks to me, in all of her writings no matter what genre.
I remember quite enjoying this the first time around, so we'll see how it goes this time.
And here's the plan: I'll review each chapter as I come to it in season...
Advent: "The Night is Far Spent..." As she is wont to do, L'Engle reached out of the book and grabbed my hand in this chapter....
helping me give flesh to the thoughts I've been having on the paradox of this season...
the beginning and waiting and looking to ending.
I keep accidentally reading these books out of order.
They can be taken out of context and still enjoyed.
Once again I found myself swept up in L'Engle's thoughts.
She wrote this journal/essay style compilation in the 70's- a time of great turmoil and change.
Sometimes I wonder what she would think of today's issues...
She always causes me to zoom way out and look at the big picture in an out- of- the- box, fantastical way.
I love how she is so honest and forthcoming about how the Lord always brings her back, heals her wounds and encourages her faith.
Just as I consider C.S. Lewis my third grandfather, Madeleine L'Engle is my third grandmother. She is such a role model for me – not only because of her wisdom but because of her foolishness. She is so honest and transparent about her faults, failures, and doubts; it makes her statements about hope and joy actually resonate as truthful experience, instead of hollow wishes. And I'm so inspired by her as a writer. She drives me to persevere in creating.The Crosswicks Journals are slices of life, carefully observed, that I will return to time and again.
Excellent, pithy, inspirational. I may not agree with all of her theology and conclusions but I appreciate Madeleine's honesty and vulnerability in sharing her struggles with agnosticism and other things throughout, and her heart. Being that she is from a different tradition of faith than the way I was raised as a Protestant, I loved the new-to-me ways of marking seasons throughout the year besides just Advent and Easter, and the deliberate ways of remembrance.
I love A Circle of Quiet, so I thought I would also love The Irrational Season. Unfortunately, it wasn't what I expected, and I found myself coasting through, buoyed by nuggets of wisdom and insight, but overall failing to feel carried away by any depth. I didn't expect what felt like 1/3rd of the book to be poetry, and I think this had a lot to do with my distaste.
Used this for Christian Education and Women's REtreats.
Summary: The third in a four book collection titled The Crosswicks Journals consisting of reflections shaped around the church year, and memories of different season's in the author's life.Madeleine L'Engle's work is receiving renewed attention with the release of the film version of A Wrinkle in Time.
So why doesn't anyone see it?'But when Wrinkle was finally published, it was exactly the right moment for it, and if it had been published two years earlier it might well have dropped into a black pit of oblivion."I, for one, am glad that it didn't and that this particular "No" of God let to this wonderful "Yes."L'Engle has faced criticism for her universalism, about which she writes in this work.
In the third volume of the Crosswicks journals, Madeleine pours all her thoughts out on God, the universe, and the human condition.
She admits that there are times when she is an atheist but she still believes in God. Madeleine expresses her thoughts and concerns about life and God in both prose and poetry.
While I was reading this book, I struggled with my own views on God, life and humanity.
Sometimes, I almost missed my exit on my way to work because thinking about Madeleine's view on these topics made my head spin.
Short Review: I really love this series.
But the organization isn't the point.
This third book in the series of memoirs is roughly organized around the Liturgical year.
But again, that isn't really the point.This also fits in with a lot of the resurgent thought recently about the liturgical year, the importance of repetition of the liturgy in general and the importance of regular seasons of grief, joy, celebration, introspection and 'ordinary time'.
One more of the memoirs to go, the last one is on her marriage.
My fuller review is on my blog at http://bookwi.se/irrational-season/
It took me a long time to finish this one.
Not because I didn't like it.
In contrary, I liked it very much.
So much in fact, that I kept going back again and again and re-read many chapters.
While still like a diary, this little book is more organized by Anglican Calendar.
The names of these holidays were unfamiliar, not being an Anglican - yet it was easy to follow.
Main impression: (to me) a gentle plea for marriage and love and the willingness to learn and taking some risk in a relationship and an absolute honest and down to earth communication with God. I am sure I will be returning to these pages quite often.
You have you savor TIS and enter it in a contemplative mood. Nothing will be on a schedule, enlightenment is not coming now. But if you serendipitously come into alignment with L’Engle and where she is at in her life and faith you feel like you are speaking to the best friend you’ve always wanted. So wise, patient, full of doubt, asking all the questions you’ve wanted to ask but didn’t, cranky, unjudgmental, so curious, and very articulate.
Outstanding. The third in L'Engle's Crosswicks series represents another shift. Structurally, it follows along with the Church calendar, which helps organize her personal and theological reflections, her search for the face of Christ. The prose is punctuated by extended passages of verse, leaning the whole thing a musical cadence, the feel of an aria. Like the first two books, it is candid, articulate, compassionate, humble, and fully absorbing.
The author was honest about her feelings on sex, liberalism, marriage and her Jesus. I appreciated her openness to whoever chooses to read the book. At times I felt like I was reading a sermon on the Beatitudes and loved every minute of it. A little bit of theology on Christianity never hurts anybody.
