https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1289430.In_Love
Not sufficing her basic needs, as she fruitlessly pursues a stable and secure life with him, their relationship is a temporary arrangement, a waiting room, like her disorderly dwelling, and he will be exchanged swiftly when a better specimen emerges: It is hardly natural for a woman to dispose of a man until accident or design has already provided her with the promise of another.Scrutinizing his and her behavior, he ruthlessly analyses and dissects their motives and emotions, observing distantly his lack of commitment, their half-heartedness, the flaws in their characters and the excruciating pain of loss:To suffer, or to experience a suffering for the loss of a girl who had no importance, was absurd; I was absurd because I was suffering; it was something that required hiding away because of its absurdity.
It's an unsparing examination of a doomed love affair in post-WWII New York, from the perspective of a 40-year old man who is looking back on what he has lost, not with sentimentality, but with all the difficult emotions we have difficulty admitting to ourselves.
Hayes represents their conflicts and raw emotions with prose that moves from sheer beauty to breathtaking anger.
"So, with the only face I had, I continued to walk uptown, imitating a man who is out for some air or a little exercise before bed."He finds words to convey some of the despair of being lost in nothingness:"Are you all right?
(And there are publishing houses like NYRB who are taking the initiative to republish buried works of genius in these distressing times of profit-making frenzy.)
The interplay of feelings, words and gestures that a romantic relationship revolves around, the acute sense of everything else paling in comparison with the object of our affection, the unreality of the extent of our involvement with a person that descends on us once passion wanes - Hayes dissects all these familiar and much talked about aspects of romantic love with a lyrical flair and with the wisdom and emotional depth of an author unwilling to shy away from depicting the entailing bitterness and despondency of heartbreak.
We think that what we want is a simpler life, and a more active, a more eternal one, and every Wednesday we diligently attend the square dances at the local schoolhouse imagining that a Virginia reel is the way back into a friendly community, and that denims and a checked shirt will restore communication with the stranger who lives next door.The only thing we haven’t lost, I thought, is the ability to suffer.
No trouble to anyone; the will notarized and the floor swept and the telephone on its hook.Your only vice, I thought, is yourself.
Most of us, fortunate enough to have been In Love, no doubt think of that time as one of joy, a discovery of that which completes us, maybe even a transcending passion.
If you've been in love, you probably know you can't define it.
It's the kind of Love when the timing's not right, when circumstances might not allow it, when misunderstanding smirks.The narrator of this novella is an unnamed writer; so it could be the author or, you know, it could be another unnamed writer.
They are lovers, but nothing the narrator says tells me they are In Love.
Dry your eyes mateI know it’s hard to take but her mind has been made upThere’s plenty more fish in the seaDry your eyes mateI know you want to make her see how much this pain hurtsBut you’ve got to walk away nowIt’s overThere's that phrase, a heartbreaking work of staggering genius, that should be used to refer to John Williams' Stoner whenever it is mentioned, but with Alfred Hayes' In Love I'm starting to collect such similar works.
I may never comeback to this same feelingthat my desire is pressingbut I want to talkabout how it feelsto be held so hardthat your body is worthlessI want to talk aboutall that happens inside methat I can’t see- Gale ThompsonFrom the very beginning this novel elicited strong emotions in me.
It is about all that happens inside that cannot be seen.I wondered what it would be like if finally we understood everything.
I had experienced something like the feeling the dark ocean had given me, a feeling that came when one was just on the point of falling asleep, and how in the morning you had a feeling that the night before you had really and finally understood something.
Alfred Hayes' In Love marked a temporary break in this mental slackness for me: it was a rapid read, I was roped up and held bound to it, despite its brevity and ambiguity, it is an incredibly powerful novel.Written and published in the years following the second World War, when the United States was enjoying a period of economic dynamism and success was flourishing, money became the currency of social interaction.
"The only thing we haven’t lost, I thought, is the ability to suffer.
We’re fine at suffering.
But it’s such a noiseless suffering.
We collapse, but we collapse in the most disciplined way.
That’s us.
That’s certainly us.
The disciplined collapsers."“I rather think though its the acrobat, as in my dream, with the dangerous, vanity-driven, and meaningless life, who’s most like us.
At least it seems to me: that paltry costume, that pride because the tricks accomplished and once again he hasn’t fallen.The whole point is that nothing can save us but a good fall.
A great fall, thats what we all need.”
Upon reading the title, observing the layout, I felt a rush of emotion pass through me, the way a young Poet might feel holding the awesome, unfathomable works of Proust, Tolstoy, in his hands for the first time, looking around - 'This scent of books; this Magic; this is my vocation by any means necessary.' And so the beginner goes out and is destroyed by the world not unlike Hayes's protagonist, probably like Hayes himself - another re-edition'd one has probably seen on a website, here or NYRB, or walking down a street in SoHo - then returning the next day, and the book is gone and one gets to wondering.
Right from the beginning you’ll know this is an ordinary love story.
Soon after you’ll sense that it’s not told in an ordinary way.
This is a gritty sophisticated big city love story where somebody, and maybe everybody, is gonna get hurt.It’s told in syncopated prose that doesn’t attempt to soften the pain.
Hayes’s writing reminded me of Edna O’Brien in its absorption in love affairs and its refusal to look away from people’s worst motives and their aching needs.As with most New York Review of Books reprints one of the best things about this edition is the foreword.
Una historia de (des)amor excelentemente escrita. Solo con leer el primer capítulo supe que me iba a encantar. Quizás decae un poco al final, pero al ser un libro tan corto no llega a aburrir. De los tres que leí de Hayes, este es el que más me gustó.
Very far from that, in fact, author Alfred Hayes cuts into the idea of a relationship if he was a surgeon in the middle of an open heart surgery.
The book is almost a stream of consciousness, with respect to the writing style of Hayes, who tends to expose the most "inner" thoughts on the narrative of a relationship being torn apart by another man who wants to pay $1,000 to sleep with "his" woman.
Alfred Hayes is one of those writers who somehow fell into the cracks of literary history.
We're lucky that there are presses like New York Review of Books (NYRB) that re-issues these "lost" classics.
Será que esse sentimento de liberdade DELE é só passageiro, que sofrerá por um amor perdido.Sera que o bem-estar DELA compensará , mesmo que não o ame e só esteja interessada no dinheiro ?Um ensaio sobre o amor em todas as suas particularidades, com seus dilemas, ciúmes ,obsessões mágoas , chantagens...e caos!!Onde há amor e sentimento haverá sempre sofrimento?
Um livro ímpar ..todos que já tiveram seus corações dilacerados se identificarão ainda mais com esse livro.
Uma obra de arte , recomendo sua leitura a todos."No amor, precisamos praticar apenas uma coisa: deixar o outro partir.
Una de esas sorpresas que hacen que valga la pena seguir recomendaciones al azar. Fue una recomendación hecha en una librería y lo amé. El ambiente, cada frase, todo lo que llega a reflexionar, el retrato perfecto que hace de cada personaje, incluso de si mismo. Una pequeña obra maestra, belleza de principio a fin.
Dude un poco y releyendo algunos preciosos pasajes me decidieron por los cinco puntos.
Podría decirse que como el Werther goethiano, y salvando las diferencias formales, estamos precisamente ante una novela lírica.
No falta ninguno de los ingredientes esperables: las ansiedades, los miedos, las dudas, los terceros, la nostalgia de una felicidad siempre inasible.
Entre la búsqueda de un orden por parte de la mujer y la indecisión masculina, entre los veinte años y los cuarenta, la novela despliega una tensión que la brevedad ayuda a sostener y que hace de esta historia una seductora lectura.
A different approach to romance. Rather than romance, here are stories about an affair, along with stories within the stories, and some painfully honest (sort of) thoughts and scenes and thoughts about scenes and possible scenes. In other words, a mixed exercise in storytelling (with dancing pronouns) and intellectualizing (although it’s the style and approaches rather than the content that are intellectual). It’s all packaged in a flimsy little frame, just for the fun of it. But it is not a fun novel. Recommended for those looking for fresh reading experiences (and lost American novels).
So much misogyny in one little book!
The writing is perfect, I agree, but how could people have given this book 5 stars and raved this way about it?
It would've been better had this book remained forgotten and would not have been rediscovered.
Who wants to remember how terrible women were treated in those times?
How it was acceptable to hit them, treat them like whores and even rape them?
I know I don't, and that reading this book made me feel sick and very upset.
Some books are forgotten for a reason, and this is one of them.
Three and a half stars.A lucid story about a man, who has trouble getting attached to people, falling in love with a woman and experiencing the rather uniquely male issue of (view spoiler)[getting replaced because some other guy has more resources (hide spoiler)]. The insightful narration gives the impression that the writer went through it and needed to shape his pain into a coherent form. However, although I usually don't have many issues with unlikable protagonists, how this guy (view spoiler)[kept kneeling before the woman and even blackmailed her for sex (hide spoiler)] sort of weakened his argument.
(That reminded me more of Thelonious Monk than Miles Davis, in a way.) This was especially evident early on in the novel but not so much later, leaving me to wonder whether that was an aesthetic choice Hayes made to depict a change from the protagonist's earlier hesitancy and uncertainty to his later less-restrained emotional intensity.I've decided to take up reading short novels for a while, nudged towards that by intrigue with the titles offered through the NYRB Classics series - of which this is one - and the Melville House Neversink Library series.
A man is sitting at a bar across from a beautiful woman, who is getting more and more beautiful as the night drags on.
The man’s dead relationship with a young woman who, one innocent night, met a rich man who offered her $1,000 to go to bed with him.
They spend most of the book unsuccessfully broken up.Possibly drunk when he tells this story, it’s obvious the relationship — or the absence of the relationship — is still affecting him deeply.
It may be a strange topic of conversation when one is sitting across from another woman, but the man is, quite frankly, sick of it all.
It is very noir indeed as it says on the cover.
And stylish.1950's New York, a lonely guy who lives in a hotel and struggels with his writing.
The book is very slim - only 119 pages.
But I think it covered all the angles of what being in love is about and what does it feel like when it goes wrong.
Why I loved this book so much was cos it showed quite brutally how we all are played by the same rules when abandoned or insecure in a relationship.
A work of genius."I suppose no evening is ever again like the very first evening, the nakedness ever
"El amor me dio la bienvenida, pero mi alma se espantó"La primera parte del epígrafe es muy apropiado para esta buena novela de Alfred Hayes.
El amor, a veces dado por sentado cuando se tiene, que se valora cuando se pierde.
Hay muchas personas para quienes el amor es simple, se vive sin dudas ni vanidades; otros que han aceptado que el amor es una ilusión; este libro no es para ninguno de ellos.
Sí lo recomendaría para quienes sienten que el amor es un riesgo, caminar por la cuerda floja, y que aún así, vale la pena; aunque no puedan estar siempre seguros de que sea así.
When we think of romantic love we often think of it as Hollywood portrays it, or as Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet, later interpreted in our time as Tony and Maria singing their love in 1950s New York City.
One such love story is that told by Walter Benton in his volume of poetry This Is My Beloved, a realistic and erotic account of a 1943 New York City romance which has justifiably become a favorite Valentine's Day gift.
Ten years later Alfred Hayes published the similarly realistic, quiet masterpiece In Love.Benton's story, as he needed to express it, was erotic.
Love in Alfred Hayes's novel may be different from romance, but it's just as dazzling.
It is this impossibility that Alfred Hayes takes on as a challenge in In Love and he succeeds in a very unique way.Hayes captures every instance of his narrator experience of love at the moment it occurs.
Each thought and emotion is addressed as it's experienced, no matter how contrary to the preceding moment or to the next.And while this may sound confusing, it comes across as making sense because we've all been through the same human experience at some point in our lives.
Yes, it may sound confusing, but because we know what this is, and because Hayes captures this so beautifully, In Love comes across as genuine, and his book is well worth the experience.
It took me a little while to get used to the rhythm and understand the quiet voice of this novel – but it was well worth spending a little time, enjoying the conversation, getting to know the characters and recognizing a little of myself in some of the attitudes and emotions.Love is love no matter where you are from or who you are, or how old you are, we all want to be cherished, loved and in love.

In Love is perfection. In Love is messy. In Love is blissful. In Love is melancholy. I don't know that Hayes could have possibly written something of such brilliance without experiencing the range of emotions that his characters convey. This is some of the most honest, jarring, gritty, and unique prose that I have ever encountered. I should be reluctant to make such a claim after just a single read, but this is easily one of the top ten books I have ever read.
Una historia corta pero con fuerza devastadora. Un hombre que ama a una mujer o que dice amarla y una mujer que ama a un hombre o que dice amarlo. Cada uno de nosotros ama a nuestra propia manera, algunos decimos amar pero sólo nos amamos a nosotros mismos; otros somos totalmente incapaces de amar porque no nos amamos lo suficiente. El mundo es un colchón gigante, es lo único que podemos decir con certeza.
