https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23272028-a-study-in-charlotte
This was fun in parts, but it really didn't do for me what it seems to be doing for a lot of readers and critics.A Study in Charlotte follows the descendants of Sherlock Holmes and John Watson as they solve crimes on a modern-day college campus.
In this story, both Sherlock and Watson were real people and Arthur Conan Doyle was Watson's literary agent, who helped publish the tales of their cases.Many years later, Charlotte Holmes and Jamie Watson find themselves caught up in some copycat crimes that appear to be framing the two, using scenes directly out of the old stories.
I knew as soon as I heard about a YA-Sherlock Holmes retelling that I would take well to this story, but I was not prepared for how much I loved it!CW: murder, talk of rape, substance abuseA Study in Charlotte is a truly fun and entertaining young adult mystery novel with a fabulous first installment.
I felt the mystery was really well-done, keeping me guessing throughout the entirety of the story and surprising me in the end.I found Jamie and Charlotte to be complimentary protagonists to one another.
I would definitely recommend to those who enjoy some fun young adult thrillers with interesting protagonists!
I’ve watched the BBC show and know the basics about the story but I’ve never actually read Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s tales (though I plan to!) So with my knowledge of Sherlock in mind, I thought this was an excellent tribute.
Watson was just as I’d imagine him, and Sherlock was fascinating, as per usual.
This has some hints of romance that I thought would annoy me but I actually didn’t mind them surprisingly.
Following the murder mystery in this book felt like watching Sherlock, but high school edition, and I loved it.
TV shows, movies, and I've read some of the actual books too despite being terrified of classics (go me!!)...so I basically went into A Study in Charlotte like an abnormally excited goose waiting for glory.
Argh.• It really underlines the drug addiction canon!Sherlock had, and Charlotte Holmes struggles with it too.
It was just "Poor Charlotte, doomed to be addicted to drugs because the original Sherlock Holmes was".
Charlotte was very smart, but she did seem to be just...Sherlock.
But they were still interesting and dimensional characters that I liked reading about!Another thing I'm a teeny tiny bit disappointed about?
This was a rip-roarin’ good time! Not at all what I was expecting but it was definitely v enjoyable. Also I am a fan of Charlotte’s big dick energy. Such fun!
Full review postedMy heart has been needing this book for longer than I realized I needed this book.- THIS. BOOK. IS. BLOODY. BRILLIANT. For a number of reasons - Aside from the fact that I read this book in less than a day and that I physically could NOT stop reading it, this book is the murder mystery you’ve always needed- You got a snarky know-it-all girl- You got a nerdy precious boy- WHO ARE DECENSANTS OF SHERLOCK AND WATSON I MEAN GOALS ANYONE????- So after a murder took place on school gr

oxy addicted female sherlock holmes & a soft hipster watsonthis was fun and dark and twisted.
i did feel things though.first off, the characters were great.
both were well adapted for the 21st century and i liked that they were related to the original holmes and watson.
and that their meeting was sort of destined to happen (even though it was cleverly orchestrated).one little thing that i liked was the way that watson talks about holmes before he's gotten to know her.
it's a subtle sort of hero worship that i think we can all in some part relate to.
will holmes and watson fall madly in love?
A Study in Charlotte brings a thrilling plot, spot-on characterization, whip-smart writing, and a puzzling mystery that will keep you guessing until the very end.
I especially admired the book's ties to the Sherlock Holmes mysteries and was wildly impressed by how fluid and natural the connections were between Holmes stories and A Study in Charlotte.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book and can't wait to see where the newest Holmes and Watson take us next.A Study in Charlotte brings a thrilling plot, spot-on characterization, whip-smart writing, and a puzzling mystery that will keep you guessing until the very end.In a gif:
Good but not great. Really big fan of Sherlock Holmes, so I was super excited to read this book. It was interesting and not a bad read but it didn't necessarily blow me away. Soo yup, sticking with 3 stars on this one.
I don't really know all that much about Sherlock Holmes at all.
Now I not only need to read the rest of this series but I need to read the actual Sherlock Holmes series and watch the shows too.
No rec because I'm not sure Sherlock Holmes lovers would like this book and non Sherlock Holmes may like myself become slightly obsessed with all things Sherlock.2018 Book Riot Read Harder Challenge: the first book in a new to you YA series or middle grade seriesAround The Year In 52 Books: A book published in the last 3 years by an author you haven't read before
Despite shipping BBC's Sherlock and John (because how can you not ship Benedict and Martin?), I still love the relationship between the original Sherlock and Watson.They have the best friendship ever and I was hoping that the author will retain that beautiful relationship in this contemporary book.Well, I was disappointed.Not only this book has some frigging romance in it (wasn't much but still..), the mystery is also something that makes me roll my eyes and the main character, Charlotte annoys me sometimes.Let me start with the romance thingy first.
DNF at about 50%  *This review contains spoilers* I am going to lay this book aside for now. Maybe it has to do with me finishing The Winner's Kiss recently, which made me a mess and in no shape for reading anything else. At least partly The Winner's kiss is to blame, but mostly I am disappointed with A study in Charlotte, because it started like such a promising light funny read and then turned - abruptly - into something dark with serious issues, which weren't handled properly in my opinion.
At least partly The Winner's kiss is to blame, but mostly I am disappointed with A study in Charlotte, because it started like such a promising light funny read and then turned - abruptly - into something dark with serious issues, which weren't handled properly in my opinion.
Many people will probably disagree with me, but I mainly try to avoid rape in books, it's a trigger for me, and when I have to deal with such issues in books, I'd prefer them to be handled reasonably, not just because it's convenient for the plot.I was going to write one paragraph for this review, but my thoughts and feelings got the best of me and wouldn't let me go until I lifted this weight off my chest.
I was well and truly Sherlocked before picking up this book--which I did with both hope and trepidation.
I feel it is a very Sherlock word.)I'll cut to the verdict: YES!!!
Because Sherlock is back-- in female form, with a totally empathetic, very perfectly Watsonian guy as her Watson, writing down her exploits, narrating the story, and falling in love with her.
Not by someone who really understands the characters and their relationships (oh yes, I did say "relationships", which is a close relative to the word "ship", and if you ship Sherlock/ Watson, be of very good cheer).
So I enjoyed this way more than I thought I would.
It reminded me a lot of the sort of books I enjoyed when I was younger and gave me a BBC Sherlock meets Veronica Mars sort of vibe.
The writing style also pleasantly surprised me because I expected it to be a lot more elementary than it was.
Other than that, I had a great time reading this book.
Although, I listened to it on audio and the narrator wasn't anything special - his British accent was fake and terrible - so I don't necessarily recommend reading it that way.
When James 'Jamie' Watson gets shipped off to boarding school in Connecticut he is sad about leaving his life in London behind.
You see, Charlotte Holmes, the descendant of the infamous Sherlock Holmes, also attends this very same boarding school.
I think not.Jamie, the descendant of John Watson ((the one who penned those cute little Sherlock tales)), has heard all about Charlotte Holmes and wants nothing more than to get in her good graces.
In the flesh, Charlotte is beautiful, edgy and addicted to opiates and he wants to get to know her better.
I enjoyed this book SO much! It's kind a Sherlock reboot in staring a female Sherlock and I really loved how she and Jamie ended up working together to solve the CRIME!I also really loved the dynamic between Jamie and Charlotte, their dialogue was always on point and their relationship was just complicated enough to be intriguing and interesting without being annoying.Can't wait to finish the rest of the series!
2.5 stars(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to HarperCollins and Edelweiss.)  “We’re being toyed with,” I said. “But why would he want us to know he’s after us?”  If I didn’t have a rule about finishing books that I started, then I would have not finished this. Firstly, I’ve never read any Sherlock Holmes books, so I have no idea if this is a good rendition, and I’m not even going to go there.I didn’t really like the characters in this, and
Firstly, I’ve never read any Sherlock Holmes books, so I have no idea if this is a good rendition, and I’m not even going to go there.I didn’t really like the characters in this, and I didn’t like the fact that Charlotte, who is supposed to be so clever takes coke and oxy!
And yes, I googled it and Sherlock Holmes took drugs too, but they were apparently legal in the time in which he took them.The storyline in this wasn’t bad, and there were some clever plotlines, but the pace was just slow, and maybe it was just the writing, but it really didn’t suck me in at all, and I just wanted it to be over.
This book is so amazing!
Well, this was utterly ridiculous as far as mysteries go. And also ham-handed in its handling of both rape and drug use.
I WOULD give a disclaimer that Brittany Cavallaro is a friend of mine, but the fact is, our friendship really blossomed AFTER I read this book.
As in, I read this book and was like, "How do I make you mine, Brittany Cavallaro?
I'm not totally sure how she did, but Cavallaro created a boy who reads as authentically a teenager and still, somehow, in a very real way, as dreamy.
As in, Jamie Watson is the boy I would've had a crush on in high school.
you'll have to READ) with Jamie.
This book had a long way to go to win me over.
I've just never been more than the most casual fan of the Sherlock Holmes character/archetype (I do like the Cumberbatch version).
Who knew that all I needed to love the Holmes archetype was to see him take the form of a ferociously brilliant teenage girl?
I loved everything about this book.
In a book with a plot and characters this great, I'd easily forgive bad writing.
One final item of note: to write a character this brilliant at observation and deduction requires brilliant powers of observation and deduction.
“We weren't Sherlock Holmes and John Watson. I was ok with that, I thought. We had things they didn't, too. Like electricity, and refrigerators. And Mario Kart.”  this is one of those times I just wanna reiterate that a THREE STARS means I LIKED IT. there is this weird thing here 3 stars = bad. This book isn't bad. I liked it. I just didn't REALLY like it, or love it. But I had a lot of fun reading it, and I plan to continue the series. I can see so much potential for this series, and these cha
We follow Charlotte Holmes and Jamie Watson, who've just started at a new boarding school together.
Despite getting off on a bad foot, the two are forced to work together after someone starts murdering student at their school in Holmes mystery-esque ways and framing the two for it.
I also felt like I had kind of seen so many things here before, in either Sherlock or Elementary.
Charlotte is the only one really and there's always this "she's not like other girls" thing going on which I HATEEE.
Also, the outside characters introduced like Charlotte's brother Milo and the Moriarty brothers have LOTS of potential.
I love that we’re dealing with a whole family of Sherlocks and Watsons and Moriartys.
But for me the best part of the book was the relationship between Sherlock and Watson.
Giving the character a pass when it’s played by Benedict Cumberbatch or Jonny Lee Miller because they’re cute is ridiculous.
Just because they’re charming doesn’t make the character any less of an asshole.
And, frankly, Cavallaro writes Charlotte with far more emotional vulnerability than any of the modern takes on Sherlock, so how about we stop giving passes to damaged, asshole men just because they’re cute, and shitting on women playing similar roles?
“I began wondering if there was some kind of Watsonian guide for the care and keeping of Holmeses.” When I first read this book, I LOVED IT. I was in such an awe that when I read the sequel, a year later, I was totally disappointed by how messy that book (The Last of August) was. It felt like a huge let down and so I unhauled it, discontinuing the series and pretending this first instalment to be a standalone. But it doesn't make sense to keep a book whose characters will grow in a series you d
I'm gonna keep the original review down here under spoilers (let's hide the cringe) only because I spent lots of time writing it, two years ago ~previous review(view spoiler)[4.5 stars • This was my most anticipated book of 2016 and IT DIDN'T LET ME DOWN.
King and the following books, aka the Mary Russell series (I'm gonna read the second instalment really soon); and the second one is this marvelous series.So, what's A Study in Charlotte about?Here we are in an alternate universe where Sherlock Holmes and John Watson were real people and Arthur Conan Doyle was Dr Watson's literary agent.
And the fact that my first try to read this book ended with me putting it down again after about 80 pages and deciding not to continue reading it, didn’t make things better at all.But I don’t easily give up on books and had a feeling that I’d just need to be in the right mood to be able to enjoy ASIC.
So, when this year’s BookTubeAThon challenges were announced, I decided to read this book for the cover-buy challenge and I don’t regret my decision at all.Like I’d expected, I really just needed to be in the right mood for this book because on the second attempt, I finished the entire novel in under 5 hours.
I had the opportunity to read an advanced copy of A STUDY IN CHARLOTTE.
I adore mysteries, and I love Sherlock Holmes stories, but I wasn't sure what to expect--Holmes adaptations can be a bit unpredictable, right?
The writing is lovely, the mystery is clever and kept me guessing, and the nods to Arthur Conan Doyle's stories are abundant and obviously come from a place of great love and admiration.
They wouldn't like that very much.) This Holmes and this Watson aren't copies of their namesakes--but they're not supposed to be.
I loved watching them figure each other out just as much as they were figuring the mystery out.
the plot is beautifully thought out, bringing concepts from the original story and also adding its own originality.however, i think this story had the potential to be more.
i felt like it lacked that last breath, but can't pinpoint what it precisely is.
the story felt surprisingly short i just wanted moooooore.other than that THING i can't pinpoint, i truly enjoyed this novel.
additionally to the interesting plot, our main characters are unique and snarky.
the writing flows nicely and it made me feel like i was solving crimes with sherlock and holmes.
DNFing at 23-24%! I may give this one another go later on down the road, but for now I'm really not feeling this! I enjoyed the first few chapters enough, however, I've been trying to read the last chapter for a day and a half now, so I think it's time to quit it!
Because she fell in love with a certain character and he rejected her and didn’t take her love seriously, she “ruined” his life - called the cops on him and making him get kicked out of Oxford, and he lost what was supposed to be a promising future – all because she had a crush on himAlso, this is not a flaw but a plot point, but I think it hurt me too much that Charlotte was raped by a boy while being drugged.
Her reveals are very interesting, and makes me certain scenes/characters in a different light based on her view.So, overall, I don’t know how I feel about this book.
OH MAN THIS BOOK IS SO GOOD.SERIOUSLY EVERYONE GET THEIR HANDS ON A COPY IT'S SO FREAKING GOOD.Honestly, I'm kind of a sucker for anything to do with Sherlock Holmes, but I couldn't even help but love this absolutely fabulous sort-of-SH-retelling.
Seriously though, Cavallaro is fantastic at the humour- there were so many times where I smiled or literally laughed out loud (which surprisingly doesn't actually happen to me that often considering how many books I read).The mystery aspect of it is awesome as well, with the story having the cleverness to it that all successful Holmes retellings need.
