https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79681.Teaching_as_a_Subversive_Activity
What we need to do, if we are going to teach them, is to learn where they are at – in much the same way as the computer game quickly finds out what you can and can’t do and then ‘builds you skills’ according to that – so that you always remain like Tantalus, being provided with challenges that always leaves the goal just out of reach ensuring that you are forever hungry and prepared to just keep trying.This sort of education is about presenting children with problems, rather than solutions, and not just problems that are basically solutions anyway – that is, problems that only have one answer and that is what is already in the head of the teacher – but ‘real’ problems.
Require each teacher who thinks they know their subject well to write a book on it (that way they will be relieved of the necessity of inflicting ‘their’ knowledge on other people.)5.
Require all teachers to take a test prepared by students on what students know.12.
Postman and Weingartner’s passion spans generations and because of the soundness of the logic upon which their argument is based, their criticism of what schools subject students to is no less withering 45 years after initial publication.
(Let me interject that I am a big Postman fan and have really enjoyed reading him throughout my grad classes.) Although I appreciated what he had to say, he was so radical he makes it hard not to throw the baby out with the bathwater.
I fear for the school that lets its teenagers create all of its policies and is forced to self-regulate.
I know to a certain extent, Postman was being radical for the sake of riling up the reader to make him think.
The fact of the matter is that for learning to occur, teaching needs to take place.
While discussing the problems brought about by the educational bureaucracy he fails to even consider the schooling model most suited to an inquiry based learning environment, homeschooling.
Not only are parents not included as potential teacher or implementers of his strategies he fails to consider them even as parents or the impact that parents have either as agents of change or as sources of educational inertia.
Teaching certainly becomes subversive when you take children away from their parents and then "educate" them ignoring the feedback of your paying customers (namely the children's parents).This flaw disappears if you start with the assumption that the book is written for parents as teachers.
(Sorry, administrators, you don’t even make the list, seeing as how you are unnecessary and in many cases counterproductive to the learning process.)Postman and Weingartner make many points, not the least of which is that there exists in the public educational system of the modern United States a pretty sharp demarcation between school and real life, a demarcation that results from using outdated methods to inculcate irrelevant information, and which serves to discourage real learning and real learners.
I can't say anything about anywhere else but I can see how elements of his ideas have been incorperated in the UK, with the idea of student-focused lessons and moving away from transmission-learning, but at the end of the day it's all the same.
There's so much here I'd like to put into parctice but, at the end of the day, while the kids may learn more if they don't learn the answers I have to teach them to pass the tests that are the only things their future educators and employers will value I'm doing good for no-one.
Postman and Weingartner address education both philosophically and practically, with suggestions for how we might immediately change our approach to education as well as long-term questions to consider in the way we imagine learning.Sadly, unlike anything I had to read in my teacher education program, but what I feel should be required reading of every future teacher (at least in part), even if just for a historical understanding of the education reform movement.
I hope, rather, and find more likely, that this book could further its readers' critical examination of the purpose of American education.
I pulled this book off my dad's shelves when I had dropped out of architecture school and was trying to figure out what to do with my life.Twenty years later, let me tell you that this was a major turning point in my decision to become a teacher. It was also a philosophy that kept me bordering on mutiny most of my teaching career...Every education student should read this book -- agree with it or not.Thank you, Neil Postman!
Some things I disagree with, but in many other ways it's incisive and illuminating, real shit
It's utterly distressing how relevant this book remains 49 years after it was published. Learning isn't about preparing for trivial standardized tests or trying to win your teacher's approval - it's about learning to question and learn from the world around you. My dad always gave me one piece of advice when going to school - "Ask hard questions." We're still in a place where students aren't always encouraged to do that.
Not only does it focus education back on the student asking questions, creating curriculum, demanding relevance in their education, it also forces teachers to ask the same tough questions of the current systems.This book will not ask you to think within the system.
They still resonate so fiercely that I wonder why so little progress has been made in the 40 years since Postman and Weingartner championed their subversive, inquiry-based methods.The only thing left, as a pre-service teacher myself, is to navigate the current educational system (which creates generations of students who hate learning), and push back as much as possible.
But it also reads like it could have been written in the last year or so, about what we're all experiencing with the incredible pace of change on the connected Internet.
(Thanks to Jared Kopf for the recommendation & book loan!)A couple of quotes for today from 40 years ago:Change occurs so rapidly that each of us in the course of our lives has continuously to work out a set of values, beliefs, and patterns of behavior that are viable, or seem viable, to each of us personally.
This was my favorite book for the Educational Psychology course taken at Grinnell College in Iowa during a brief flirtation with the idea of becoming a high school teacher (I had so loved so many of mine) should the Revolution be accomplished or delayed.While I remember many of the readings for this course, I don't recall the name of its instructor.
While he looked straight and wasn't one of the younger instructors, the fact that he had us read this and Summerhill in addition to more traditional texts showed that he'd adapted to his students and their concerns--not, I imagine, the easiest thing for college professors during the sixties.As it turned out, I learned eventually that teacher certification requirements varied between the fifty states and that no one seemed to be on top of the differences.
It was disappointing to read that the ideas my teachers' college has been presenting as "new" teaching "reform" have been around since before I was born. Will new ideas in education always take 40 years to percolate?
The material is dated, but it is still forward thinking. I would say its pretty much the blue print for contemporary cutting edge thinking in 2012 - not bad considering Postman wrote this in 1968.
Neil Postman is responsible for me dropping out of high school, pursuing teaching in college and dropping out of teaching after my student teaching.
In evaluating the central thesis of the book, it seems to me helpful to view it as three connected claims: 1)	That there are numerous difficult problems facing modern America and the world 2)	That these problems are not adequately addressed by the current public education system 3)	That a change in the focus and structure of the system toward the cultivation of critical thinking and free inquiry would better address these problemsFor my own part, I am convinced that all three of the above are well-founded, though the final claim begs some important questions.
This book reminds teachers why they teach in the first place.
Heavily influenced by Marshall MacLuhan's 'the medium is the message', this book again, shows that these mediums (tv/computers) are not passive but rather have their own 'agendas' whether consciously or not, this must be taken into account in the classroom and students taught to recognise when a medium or ideology is acting upon them.
It is a book that shows teaching is less about filling students minds with information but rather removing lazy, muddled thinking and promoting logic, reason and curiosity...
Written nearly 50 years ago, this book burns brightly in the first half as the authors set out their case for an upheaval in education.
There is a long section on inquiry-based learning, which is carefully and passionately argued, with another chapter on what was one of Postman's enduring concerns, the role of language and in particular how language shapes though (Sapir-Whorf).
The final sections burn a little brightly, possibly because they have dated the most, but it is striking how much of the book frames issues still being debated in the present such as the role of technology in teaching and learning.
Bonus star because I'm pretty sure that reading this book 15 years ago resulted in me deciding, over a decade later, to pursue teaching. The rereading was almost as inspirational (once I got past the terribly sexist language - since this was written almost 50 years ago I'm less surprised by the -isms than by my failure to properly notice them the first time around).
Actual rating 3.5 out of 5. It's not a full 4 simply as a matter of personal enjoyability--most of this stuff I already knew from my first teaching course. Thankfully a lot has changed in education since this was published and constructivist methods are more the norm, where I live anyway. Still, this is a good read with some powerful radical ideas.
Quotes from this book are too many to share. Profound, enriching, reflection-inducing. A must read for educators.
Not revolutionary but a good rant all the same
I was just looking through this again and am saddened by how many of these issues, written about almost 50 years ago, are still relevant in today's schools. I consider it a must-read for teachers.
Fuente: http://www.vidadigital.net/blog/2009/...Estas sugerencias que hizo Neil Postman en su libro “Teaching as a Subversive Activity” van a cumplir unos 40 años pero de manera sorprendente tienen una gran vigencia para atender los problemas mayores que tiene el sistema educativo.
Declarar una moratoria de cinco años sobre el uso de todos los libros de texto.Dada dos o tres excepciones, todos los textos no sólo son aburridos, pero también están basados en el supuesto de que el conocimiento existe antes de, independiente de y totalmente fuera del alumno, ellos son inútiles y dañinos.
In lieu of this, Postman suggests a basic question that challenges both students and teachers to reconsider education: what is worth knowing?
However, Postman would not support this latter point--he urges teachers to allow the students to define questions of the course.I originally held some reserves about this inquiry method.
Because, ideally, the students hold the liberty to explore problems and questions they deem important and relevant, they would naturally come to reading--or whatever other medium they find useful--by their own volition.
But we cannot resist saying that their high standards represent the lowest possible standards imaginable in any conception of a new education.
pg 57“An autocratic atmosphere (produced by a dominating teacher who controls direction via intricate punishments) produces in learners apathetic conformity, various - and frequently devious - kinds of defiance, scapegoating (venting hostility generated by the repressive atmosphere on colleagues), or escape (psychologically or physically).
If schools functioned according to the democratic ideals they pay verbal allegiance to, the students would long since have played a major role in developing policies and procedures guiding its operation.
“Teaching as a Subversive Activity” puts forth ideas about education that are radical, controversial, bold and fresh.
The principles in “Teaching as a Subversive Activity” are applicable and relevant today just as they were forty-five years ago—how to change education where students learn how to think, to detect ‘crap’, and to learn how-to-learn that continues beyond high school and higher education.In my blog post on my Online Learning Insights I highlight and share with readers three themes from the book, still relevant in today’s digital culture: 1) facilitating ‘crap detection’, 2) What’s-Worth-Knowing?
Rather than disseminating dead ideas left over from a previous time, we need to educate kids by equipping them to deal with rapid change, and with navigating media.
Educate them not to believe a particular doctrine, but to be able to look critically at all doctrines and thus move into a more functional democratic society.In other words, democracy is about questioning the status quo.
Their education does not provide functional direction in their actual time and place.Teach them to question everything.
This is a really great book for any educator looking for anti-establishment inspiration,to explore these questions, in light of our current need for healthy democracy.
We got to do whatever we can to survive, and while that is understandable, life is not just about "mere survival" but we must also address larger questions of purpose, value, morality, right and wrong (though of course, things are not always black and white, as Postman and Weingartner remind us - we don't live in a binary world).I appreciate Postman and Weingartner's practical approach, but we must not forget that pragmatics cannot be the only thing that governs how we live, learn, or teach.
But to end on a positive note, Postman and Weingartner are right to insist that if students aren't learning, then the teacher isn't teaching.
And grading is just terrible.Teachers ought to read this and try the practical suggestions that Postman & Weingartner suggest at the end of the book.
