https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78895.Tracks
Wow 👏🏼'
This is an amazing outdoor adventure/travelogue/girl power memoir.Robyn Davidson decided to get some camels, train them, and then walk across the Australian Outback.
She wrote of how being alone in the desert made her forget social niceties, and if she came to a town, she had trouble adjusting to company.One of the things I liked about this book was that she took this trip in the late 1970s, and I enjoyed reading her views on feminism and sexism.
I was disappointed by this book. I felt that the author had a major chip on her shoulder that she never really got over. Her open contempt for anyone interested in her or her journey was not only tiring, but made for a strange read (being one of those interested in her journey). I felt tricked - like she'd invited me to read her story and then accused me of voyeurism. I was left with the feeling that this book was written out of obligation to some sponsor more than a desire to share her experience with the world. Wonh-wonh!
“Tracks” is a phenomenal travelogue of a 2700 km voyage through the Australian desert; by Robyn Davidson and four camels. It’s the proof that a single (lunatic?) idea, a seemingly fuzzy project (a woman crossing the desert with camels) can be accomplished. As Davidson put it at the end of the trip, she learned two most important things: (1) we’re as powerful and strong as long as we want; (2) the hardest part on “my” enterprise is the first step, to take the first decision.Evidently, it was a t
“Tracks” is a phenomenal travelogue of a 2700 km voyage through the Australian desert; by Robyn Davidson and four camels.
People said that she wanted to commit suicide; that the trip was a sort of penalty for her mother’s suicide; that she wanted publicity and it was a way to prove a woman can cross a desert.It was about learning the “tenacity lesson”.
For some time she hated him: he took photos of a secret ceremony of the aboriginal people.
A must-read for adventure memoir junkies like myself.
The walk serves as a catharsis for her.
In her own words, I had dredged up things that I had no idea existed.
People, faces, names, places, feelings, bits of knowledge, all waiting for inspection.
It was a giant cleansing of all the garbage and muck that had accumulated in my brain, a gentle catharsis.
However, lest you think this memoir is only about Robyn's coming to know herself better, its not.
I recommend this book to Around-the-World readers and folks who love adventure memoirs.A solid 4-stars.My blog reviews.
To quote her in the memoir "How animals ever forgive us for what we do to them, I will never understand." Beyond the abuse of the camels (and occasionally her dog) I found Davidson to have an air of superiority to everyone she encountered along the way with the exception of Aboriginals.
The ONLY reason I gave this book 2 stars was because I was interested in the information regarding the Aboriginal population of Australia and the years of abuse they have suffered in their own country.
This was a disgusting book and I regret having read the entire thing.
[I.e. a book probably won't be a five star book until I am certain it has had an enormous effect on me and short-circuited and rewired something, conjured something, become necessary.
Which means three stars has to encompass everything from 'Sure, I liked it' to 'I liked it so much I couldn't stop talking about it and definitely want to read other books by the author.'] Back to camel beatings: there are a lot of them in this book.
They aren't ours, they never were, and for Davidson not to draw some parallels between domesticated (beaten) animals and colonized (beaten) Aboriginal peoples is appalling.
Not only is this a tough journey in a physical sense, from the relentless heat, the whole menagerie of nasty & poisonous creatures that exist there, fending off unwelcome advances of men, whilst travelling with the camels, a belligerent species at the best of times, takes a resilience and toughness that many men could not achieve.And that is not the hardest thing she has to endure her apprenticeship with a camel trader, a particular unpleasant man makes for uncomfortable reading at the beginning of the book.
The ending is an emotional roller coaster, as she realises her achievement, tries to avoid the press pack, far worse than any dingoes, and reaches the Indian Ocean.Well worth reading, as this is a personal journey as well as a travelogue of a fascinating country.
Filled with novelties such as:- How to train your camel- What it’s like to own a pet crow (not recommended!)- Surviving in the Australian OutbackAnd more traditional themes such as:- A woman confronting a machismo culture- Finding the inner strength to deal with external perils- Self-discovery through suffering- The nature of solitude- Transcending social and self-imposed limitationsOne of my favorite parts of the book is her descriptions of how she adapted to the vastness of the desert, the isolation, and the dreamlike state induced by endurance in an extreme environment.
Recommended to fans of memoirs about personal challenges, travel-related adventures, endurance tests, or self-discovery.
I think she learned a lot about herself and her capabilities along the way, but what would possess a woman to train some camels (she'd never even been exposed to a camel before) and head out into the hostile desert?
One that is not mentioned in the book is that Robyn Davidson's mother committed suicide when she was 11.
I was horrified at how they were treated, similar to the Native Americans in the U.S. I think she wanted to prove a woman could do it.
But most of all I think she wanted to learn what she was capable of.
A fast, restorative read for depleting times.
Did it matter, I would think to myself, if all the buttons had gone from my shirt and trousers?
From my position, it didn't matter a damn whether it followed the natural laws of gravity and ran down my leg, the way it was meant to do, but would others feel the same way?I was surprised to find the Davidson/ Chatwin/ Rushdie link (in a rather horribly paragraphed article here: https://m.ruralweekly.com.au/news/bru...
) - and from what I heard, Davidson was the cool person Chatwin got introduced to.
At the age of twenty-five, the author got the wild idea that she wanted to travel solo with camels across the Australian Outback.
She moved from Brisbane to Alice Springs where she spent two years learning how to handle camels, figuring out how to obtain camels of her own, and otherwise preparing herself for the trip.
(Atrocious!) I also learned about the appalling treatment of Aboriginals by white Australians, which parallels in many ways the American experience of both blacks and Indians.
The book is definitely more interesting after she leaves on the trip than while she's preparing for it.
Robyn Davidson doesn't consider herself incredible or inspirational, although she completed a journey that few other people could have contemplated, let alone completed.In 1977, from Alice Springs, which is smack bang in the middle of Australia, and is surrounded by deserts, she undertakes an (*almost) solo trek to the Western Australian coast, 1700 miles away, accompanied by her four camels.
(view spoiler)[In another book by Robyn Davidson, Desert Places, for me she missed the balance, and shared way too many of her impulsive thoughts that were reversed the following day, which made that book only 3 stars.
I learned a great deal about camels, Alice Springs Australia, the mentality of Australian men, Aborigines, and Robyn Davidson from this book.
It is a book about life on the frontier, self reliance, being a woman in an ultra-macho culture, about tourism in the outback and the savage mistreatment of native peoples of the outback.
One of the most interesting and to me edifying aspects of the book was in Davidson's accounts of the treatment of Aborigines and her encounters with them.
As Tracks unfolds we see a spiritual journey unfold as Davidson tries to learn the skills needed to trek the outback with Camels.
This book lacked a lot for me.
For starters, while I appreciate her need to keep a lot of her motivations and revelations private, it makes it difficult to relate to someone on this type of journey with so little to go on.
What makes these books good is knowing why someone chose to do this type of journey, and how it changed that person.
A lot of readers have been left wondering why she did this journey, I was left not really caring why she did it, but wondering more why she bothered to write a book about it.
It lacked flow the majority of the time, whereas there were other moments in which Davidson discussed her friendship with Aborigines or how the desert necessarily expands your “mind” as ultra-connection is required for survival that were beautiful, if not refined.
Her journey is amazing, as is the environmental destruction of the outback and the plights of the Aborigines, both things that I am thankful she discussed at length in the book.
I despaired over Diggitty, fretted over bull camels, but still don’t feel like I really know her journey, the daily life in the desert, how she made her plans, the sunrises and the sunsets, etc.
I think what Robyn accomplished is truly amazing.
I think the tasks she took on - training her camels and travelling so far across inhospitable, though amazing, country is to be more than admired.
I think the relationship she had with her camels was touching and lovely and the book was informative about them.
I know she didn't want publicity during or at the end of the trek, but afterwards she wrote the book and invited it in, and the big question that people want answered is left unsaid, which I found a little disappointing.
If Tracks has a message at all, it is that one can be awake to the demand for obedience that seems natural simply because it's familiar.After watching the film Tracks twice I immediately ordered the book and promptly read it.
This may not sound believable, but it wasn't the journey itself that led me to learning more, but Robyn Davidson herself.
I was trying to talk to my partner about this - and I came to the conclusion that what drew me in to the book is what initially sparked my interest in the film.
Through reading this book I've begun to make small steps.
An inspiring journey of solitude and self-discovery, which I can relate to greatly.
Because of her contempt for media and myth-making that had surrounded Davidson throughout her journey, she doesn't indulge into too many personal details.
She often felt disgruntled at others as they invaded her privacy, and it shows through her writing even toward the reader.
It seems that she is somewhat forced to open up this personal odyssey to prying eyes, and to conserve at least some secrets she discovered along the way, she chooses to omit important explanations.
Full review at TheBibliophage.com.Originally published in 1982, Robyn Davidson’s travel memoir, Tracks: One Woman’s Journey of 1,700 Miles Across the Australian Outback, is a unique picture of life in the bush.
To call it a travel memoir doesn’t do it justice.
It’s really an adventure story, with camels, a dog, lots of sand hills, and a variety of indigenous people.When Davidson took this journey, Aboriginal Land rights had just been legislated.
And the Outback was entirely different than it is today.For that matter, so was Davidson.
Having been raised on a cattle ranch as well as lived in cities, she envisioned a journey from Alice Springs to the Western coast of Australia.
After two years she still did not have the funds to start on her trek, so she signed a contract with "National Geographic" to allow a photographer to spend a few days with her several times during the trip.Davidson was a hard working, tenacious woman who loved the camels and her dog.
The "camel lady" set off from Alice Springs and traveled six months through the Aboriginal Reserve areas and the desert, westward to the Indian Ocean.Davidson tended to overreact to the presence of Rick Smolan, the camera man.
As a young woman Robyn Davidson moved to Alice Springs with a dream of picking up some camels and heading across the desert.
Although she had 1700 miles to cross, first she had to catch a camel...
The story of preparing for the crossing is as interesting as the crossing itself.
Reading this book is a shattering reminder of what Australia was like in the late 1970s, particularly how misogynistic it was, and just how hard it was for Robyn Davidson to go against the mores of the times to follow her dreams.This is an amazing story.
It is absolutely worth reading.Recommended.
Perhaps I should have given this book one more star, because there were short passages of transcendent beauty when Davidson describes lovely, remote, and impossibly hostile stretches of Australian outback desert.
Davidson has a great story, with a breathtaking backdrop, but it suffers in her telling.
Often she refers to friends as though the reader already knows them, and several times alludes to a troubled life (à la a coy Facebook poster) without giving any back story.
So we don't really know why she is attempting this life-changing trek, only that she is, and she does her level best to take us along, only so many things that happen to her are 
I quit this book about half way through after a series of references to beating her camels senseless. She is devastated after having to shoot one of her sick camels, but shows no remorse whatsoever for beating them. I have worked with animals far larger than camels and I know from personal experience that there are better ways to control them. I couldn't keep reading this and I think some animal lovers may be uncomfortable reading this as well.
It takes one adventurous and determined person to go into saltbush country and trek across the desert with four camels and live off the land. To have to face all the different dangers and obstacles along the way but at the same time understanding how very different outback Australia is. It’s about discovery of self and freedom and the love of country, but not a trek for everyone.
"Tracks" is Robyn Davidson's account of her journey from Alice Springs in the Northern Territory, to Broome in Western Australia, crossing the desert accompanied by camels and her dog.
The autobiographical travel adventure book is inevitably inspiring, as the author's voice is as humorous and heartfelt, as it is neurotic, passionate and self-deprecating.
There is an authenticity and vulnerability to her writing, sometimes poetic and lyrical, at other times brutally honest, which draws the reader in.In addition to being a well-told story, Davidson's journey itself is incredible.
She reflects on what she has learnt over the course of her travel, "to be free is to learn, to test yourself constantly, to gamble.
I read this during a brief trip to Alice Springs, Uluru and surrounds having seen the movie during a characteristically chilly April day in Melbourne earlier this year.
It's a stunning book - capturing Davidson's love and appreciation of the Central Australian landscape, her principles and passion for the Indigenous people of the country and her deep and abiding love of her camels and dog.
There's so much more to the book as well - it's a rich and readable journey, tackling so much more than just the walk.
I'm not really fascinated by camels, but I am a sucker for stories of desert landscapes transforming human beings, and this book is a moving marriage of the two.
I've experienced just enough of this to be transformed a little myself in reading it, reminded that lightheartedness can be achieved in most situations, and nursing a longing to know my landscape in a way that I never will.Camels are the binding thread throughout the tale.
I actually had a little bit of an opposite reaction - the mysterious origin of her drive to devote her life to this journey made her self-examinations and revelations more interesting to me.
She obtains four camels called Dookie, Zelly, Bub and Goliath.She wrote the story for the National Geographic Society that had helped subsidize the trip and paid for the photographer.
The trip took seven months; she met interesting aboriginal people along the way.Davidson describes how enjoyable and watchable the camels are.
At other times, it violently rises off the desert flood, swirling and churning into dusty whirlpools.”The book is well written and is full of information and trivia such as the word whoosh means sit in Afghani.
Davidson writes with an offbeat since of humor that makes the book a joy to read.
At times I felt as if I was on the journey and knew Robyn personally - to the extent each time I thought that, I could hear her rightful beration of how I could never really know the journey or the author because I simply wasn't there.
(Heck, in the added prologue the author herself points out that 30 years later she relates to but doesn't know, that person in the book).
The author is honest to a point of sharing her fears, doubts and contradictions.
