https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27516.The_Brethren
In what is putatively a democracy, with power given by the people, and then shared among three coequal branches of government the United States Supreme Court stands apart.
Bob Woodward's The Brethren is the best window we've ever had into the Supreme Court and its life-altering decisions.
The joke around the Court was that he and Marshall passed each other in the corridor most days just before noon - Stewart on his way to work, Marshall on his way home.Woodward also has fun with the large number of obscenity cases heard during these terms.
Like the laws given to Moses, the Supreme Court's edicts are meant to be chiseled in granite.

I read this book in high school, as a high school senior for a Constitutional Law class.
I found the book very compelling then, and I am sure that I would now.
I read the book for a class, but I really got into it, without even knowing the cases that the court heard, who was on the court and the politics behind all of it.
I would like to re-read it now that I have read most of the opinions from the cases heard in the book.
Like many law students, I have a love for SCOTUS that runs deep.
(And to the extent that it doesn't, the pretense that it does becomes little more than a cynical ploy to gain popular compliance with dubious or illegitimate decisions --though the authors leave it to the readers to figure out that conclusion for themselves).Most of the justices depicted here are shown to have personal agendas, sometimes ideological ones on the Left or Right --impartial service to the law usually wasn't high among the considerations.
The authors note that Warren's successor, Warren Burger, was careful to vote with the majority so that he could prevent major cases from being assigned to the “liberal justices” (Douglas, Marshall and Brennan).
Potter Stewart signaled his reluctance to lead a dissent:  “I got shitty opinion assignments from Earl Warren for ten years, and I'll be damned if I want to get them from Warren Burger for the next fifteen years.” The Warren Court ruled on a succession of key cases in the areas of school busing, abortion, obscenity, the death penalty, freedom of the press, and freedom of speech.
A classic. Through and through. Sparked an interest that turned into a passion, and is still burning years after I first read it in high school. Every time I read this book I gain new insights. If only we could see behind today's Supreme Court. After The Brethren came out though, I doubt any justices will be talking to reporters anymore.
I had no idea Warren Burger was such an insufferable person.
Apparently the whole reason this book got written was because so many of the other justices were peeved at Burger and they had to vent in long, extended interviews.The book focuses too much on Watergate (perhaps justifiably for Woodward) and the extremely detailed background on some cases (the multiple memos, amendments,drafts, and meetings behind them), but one leaves the book with a real understanding of the Supreme Court as a political branch, both in relation to the outside environment, and, even more so, to its own internal environment.
This book was written before Ronald Reagan appointed, in 1981, the first woman to the Supreme Court, so at the time, "the brethren" was an appropriate way to refer to the justices on the Supreme Court. I think it's still the way to which the justices are referred in general, even though more than one woman has now served on the high court. This book is an interesting look at the way the Supreme Court functioned a few decades ago, but perhaps the time has come for Bob Woodward to revisit this topic.
I absolutely loved this book! I had to complete a research paper in high school on the legalization of abortion. The Roe vs. Wade trial. This book was one of the ones that helped immensely. It was a great, interesting read through out the court cases and Justices through the years and terms of each one!
Then it is divided into the courts yearly sessions.I thought Woodward did a great job evoking the personalities of the justices--though it surely has some inaccuracies due to cloudy political vision--as well as explaining some of the major issues the Court faced during Burger's early years.
And this book looks at the lives of the men (no women yet) in charge of making these decisions.While I had read most of the cases that were discussed in this book, I think Woodward explains the underlying conflicts and politics in a way that most people could understand.
Still, I think Woodward does an excellent job at showing just how important (it's frightening, really) it is to understand the Supreme Court and its members.
His first foray in what would turn out to be a long-term fascination with the U.S. Supreme Court, Bob Woodward along with co-author Scott Armstrong wrote the first comprehensive insider book on the US Supremes.
The Court's decisions shaped American policy on civil rights, Watergate, the Vietnam war, abortion, and even laws dealing with oral sex and homosexuality.
These were exciting days for the US Supremes, and for everyone in the country who waited for the last Monday in October (when the Supreme Court issued its last opinions for the year), to find out the fates of millions of Americans.This is a fascinating, impeccably researched book.
This was a fascinating look inside the Supreme Court and it reads practically like a novel.
It was scary learning what motivates a lot of the decision-making on the court - at the end of the day these are just nine normal people deciding such important issues that affect so many.
I would have liked to learn more about Blackmun and I felt that Woodward's portrayal of him was very different than his portrayal in "Becoming Justice Blackmun." You might like this book more if you are a liberal, because Brennan comes across as the hero, Burger the oafish villian and Rehnquist the snake (but a likeable guy nonetheless).
When this book came out, my first response was "Wow." How did Woodward get all of these inside stories? But that's my normal response to many of his books. Why do people open up so much to him? I once used this as a textbook in a course on Law and Politics, since it gives an "inside view" of the Supreme Court. Questions have been raised about this work, but--in thne end--a good read and a work that gets one to thinking about the Court.
I found Woodward's prose to make this a compelling and accessible volume on the Court. My intellectual curiousity was piqued by some of the cases discussed.
One of the most insightful books about the inner workings of The Supreme Court every done.
Hooray! I finished a book that is not about babies and their sleep habits and developmental milestones. I read ~10 pages a night over a few months and this was a good book for that slow pace. I enjoyed it. The authors seemed to have an impressive amount of access. I found the behind-the-scenes politicking and negotiating fascinating, but also disheartening.
From 1969 -- the year Nixon selected Warren Burger as Chief Justice -- through 1975, Woodward and Armstrong wrote about the life and times of the Court, provided tremendous insight to the members, and how their interaction decided (and delayed) some of the Nation's major legal decisions.The time frame selected - 1969 to 1975 - saw a huge transition in the Supreme Court.
Most of the selections were deemed "political" as both authors felt the appointments were part of Nixon fashioning the Court to his liking.During that time span, the Court saw many issues that still have impact today, with some decision historic reference.
The author makes assumptions that the reader will know what a "cert" is, what defines a "conference" , what the role of the Law Clerk is, and how cases ultimately end up at the Court.
Woodward divides the book into chapters based on the year.
Other reviews have stated that Woodward's sources were the Clerks themselves, but their names are not given.
Frankly, I don't know how Woodward would know what was said between two Justices when no Clerk was present.
There is bias here and one gets the feeling that the intent of the book was to shatter the myths surrounding the Supreme Court and its Justices.
The last justice to join the Brethren in the book, John Paul Stevens, was the last of the Brethren to retire from the Supreme Court in June 2010.The Warren Court was responsible for the major advances in individual rights in the sixties and early seventies , but today's society was still be shaped in the early year's of the Burger Court (recognizing that it continues to be reshaped after the time period covered by the book, just in a different direction).
The stakes are too high (for both parties), and, without the benefit of historical perspective, the Court looks more like it is occupied by two political parties rather than 9 justices.Next up, The Nine by Toobin.
The interviews given in this book were inspired by the justices' and clerks' outrage at the Chief Justice's running of the Court.
For those of us who have a sort of holy reverence for the Court that the picture on the cover inspires, this book can shake up your world.I do wish more people - especially those of who think of the Court as an archaic and out-of-touch institution- would read this, and begin to understand how closely the Court affects every day and American life (and also see sometimes how arbitrarily decision are made!).
A shocking, detailed behind-the-scenes account of the Burger court thru 1975.Warren Burger was an inept, stupid, highly political hack of a Chief Justice.
And a racist, sexist, bigot.Thurgood Marshall was lazy and delegated his work to the point of dereliction.William Brennan was awesome.Ditto William Douglas, until he became senile and crazy.Rehnquist was a really nice guy who lied a lot to get the results he wanted.
It is chilling that in this book he is the far right, while at the time of his death he was practically the center.Blackmun was an indecisive Hamlet type who thankfully was won over by Brennan's flattery and deserted his pal Burger.Whizzer White was a jackass whose appointment by JFK is a total mystery to me.
This was one of the few difficult books that I forced myself to read but I was curious about the supreme justices and our judicial system so I read it.
I don't remember much of it except how the clerks would write most of the legal documents for the justices.
The justices read briefs, made decisions, and hands off the rest of the work to their very faithful clerks.
Hmm...I don't remember what year I read this book but it was before I strayed from academia.
However, NO ONE is allowed inside the chambers, so why not just say that and call it a fictionalized account of the real supreme court or something?
But a true journalist doesn't withhold stories from the newspaper he's managing editor of so that he could write a best seller.That being said, what I liked about this book is it gives you the real flavor of the supreme court: from how it decides what cases to hear to how it's decided who writes the opinion, and for that, I think it's a valuable read.
This is a must-read for anyone who wants to understand the dynamics of the Burger court.
Woodward obviously relied on numerous clerks (and perhaps some justices) to get the inside scoop on the interpersonal dynamics of the nation's highest judges at a critical time in jurisprudential history.
The Chief himself is portrayed as vain, pretentious, and ungifted, while William Brennan is shown as the somewhat cynical swing player.
The degredation of the relationship between the "Minnesota Twins" (Blackmun and Burger) unfolds against Blackmun's budding progressivism in the thral of Brennan and Marshall.
The sad story is the slow decline of the once-great (although never good) William O.
The best of Woodward's many books.
The Brethren was the first the (now) many "Inside the Supreme Court" books.The cliff-notes version: Chief Justice Burger is a hack.
Justice Brennan is a great hero for all mankind.
Justice Marshall is lazy and lets his clerks do all of his work.
And Justice Stewart is the everyman justice (with a 125 IQ, natch) with his finger on the pulse of the American zeitgeist.
The rest of the justices barely figure.Much of this is probably true (who knows?), but Woodward here follows his traditional m.o.: reward those who leaked to you, punish those who snubbed you, and ignore everyone (and everything) else.
An interesting, gossipy account of the goings-on at the Supreme Court during one of the most critical phases in its history. The book has aged pretty well, and it still leaves readers with absolute contempt for Warren Burger. Potter Stewart, who apparently collaborated with the authors, doesn't come off looking much better. William Rehnquist, (pre-stroke) William O. Douglas, J-P Stevens, Lewis Powell, and the vastly underrated Byron "Whizzer" White are all portrayed as competent jurists, with William Brennan as the group's politician, Thurgood Marshall as its slacker, and Harry Blackmun as its tormented fussbudget.
Study of how our Supreme Court works. Hard to believe that it is really as depicted, with the Justice's clerks in control and Chief Justice Burger a total idiot. But maybe .... Much of the book chronicles events in the Nixon era, and if you are in your 50's this book explains alot of what went on and why. Very good.
slow, but very intriguing read
Depth: BStyle: CContent: BResearch: AHistorical Impact: DWoodward and Armstrong write a tale of 7 years and 14 Supreme Court judges.
The Supreme Court has been the most sheltered of all public institutions with only trifles of coverage before.
The book does portray the quirks of the judges, the key decisions of each year, the infighting and the peculiarities of an institution founded on politics yet delivering fundamental cultural dictates.W and A fall down on two points - first, this is not a history book, but a retro-newspaper account.
Other accounts will have to be checked to see if the man is actually so unredeemed.
This was a WOW book for me.Woodward and Armstrong take their readers inside the halls of power and give us access to history being created as if we are there with them in real time. The thoroughness of the research and the intensity of the Justices' personality make for educational and entertaining reading. This is definitely only a book for the politically-engaged (read: incredibly nerdy) reader, but it's a remarkable piece of writing and reporting.
