https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41021812-essays-in-science
A collection of Einstein's writings on the philosophy of science, theory of relativity, and scientific history. Although the essays don't contain any math, they were generally written for peer scientists, and as such are very difficult to understand for a lay public. Only recommended for people with a decent foundation in wave theory, field theory, and other 20th century physics.
One of the interesting pieces I found in this book was the view of this genius on luminous ether.
In accordance with general theory of relativity space without ether is inconceivable." He goes on to state that the "ether must not be thought of as endowed with the properties characteristics of ponderable media ..." Other interesting ideas include how physicists helped to understand physical reality, and the historical development of special theory of relativity.
This book is highly recommended to everyone interested in fundamental laws of physics, and the life of Albert Einstein.
a great read pertaining to the fundamental axioms of modern chemistry (that's science as we call it).
inasmuch this pertains to the philosophical ideas behind scientific theory as a whole, you also get some very interesting logs about einsteins early studies of relativistic theory and Brownian motion as well.
I also wouldn't be lying of I didn't include quantum theory as well.for a short booklet this is definitely a great list of popular essay which will take more than an hour or two of your time.
an informative briefing and glimpse into einsteins brilliant mind and ideas.
for all those perky science fans, this is a must read for everyone no matter what your scientific expertise is.
Essays in Science is a small collection of speeches and short articles by Albert Einstein at the height of his intellectual prowess. Because many of the excerpts in this collection are aimed at a professional audience, the non-physicist will find some tough going in the content. However, these vignettes provide a rare contemporary glimpse into Einstein's thoughts when his greatest work was still unfinished, and thus breathe life into what we usually think of nowadays as of ancient history and equations in dull textbooks.
Clearly written; my scientific background is lacking, and I had a difficult time following the reasoning in some of the more explanatory chapters. However, the extremely short "On Scientific Truth" resonated: "Certain it is that a conviction, akin to religious feeling, of the rationality or intelligibility of the world lies behind all scientific work of a higher order" (11).
