https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125201.The_Necessary_Angel
Loads of filling. Don't remember it being "necessary" at all. Greatest moment (I quote by memory): "Those ones who put all their soul into their poetry cannot bear sugarcoated poetry made by poseurs as a hobby."
A rare and thought-proving book on language, prose, poetry, art, painting, and creativity.
“We live in the mind,” Stevens says in speaking about transmitting your imagination.
I especially liked his chapter on Imagination as Value.
This is far more than a book about poets or poetry—Wallace Stevens being a poet who writes with grace and intelligence.
The thoughts in The Necessary Angel will certainly enlarge life and reality from the ordinary.
His precise prose brings the action of the imagination into a deep perspective.
It’s the kind of book you can open at random and find a line that opens you up as well.
For Wallace Stevens, the real and the abstract were interwoven in ways that begged his decoding, which he turned into poems that stretched our imaginations.
The artist must know what to leave out as well as what to add in, in order that the imagination be given what it wants to see.In his own way Stevens is making the same sort of point for poetry (along with numerous other points).I think anyone interested in writing, be that poetry or fiction or non-fiction, would do well to really study this book.
I read the first essay of this book about a year ago and was blown away.
but the punchline was good enough that I am still trying to figure out how best to ink it on my skin.So, as I began to prepare for my final thesis, I knew full well that the first essay would be a part of it...
but I felt nauseous at the thought that I would include it without having read the rest of the book.
Intellectually negligent.Having finished it about a month ago, I finally have found a moment to write about it...
And I am glad I did, because there were some further developments of thought that I believe will be helpful in my writing.
Stevens compares them to reality and the imagination.
I consider Mr. Stevens to be a poet who writes about imagination quite often.
Imagination is "the necessary angel." He writes at one point about the logical positivists.
J. Ayer: "It is fashionable to speak of the metaphysician as a kind of misplaced poet." And Stevens, an atheist, is not a metaphysician.
Stevens also speaks of "cleansing the imagination of the romantic.
The romantic belittles it.
The imagination is the liberty of the mind.
The romantic is a failure to make use of that liberty.
A little angel said to me, "I'm an angel and you were once too," and he was well pleased.
All Stevens' work viewed in light of his baptism at 75, right before his death, shows its truth.
Then angel showed me what that meant.
This music appeared in the March elimae http://www.elimae.com/2010/03/RevStev....
Angel wouldn't shut up though, woke me again in the AM that there is a something greater than imagination once you know to sing.
the angel said, "my tongue is a lute, my heart a lyre!"
Curious, inspiring essays on perception and art - the question of the importance of imagination and its effect on reality. It follows in the veins of the philosophical perception, how everyone's experience and person defines things differently.Fascinating that Stevens's prose is much more baroque and Henry James-like in comparison to his beautiful but terse and immense poetry. Still he forces you to work with him, battle with him, through these questions.
Some good essays in here...worth reading...but not the absolute necessary angel the title leads you to believe.
A challenging read, one that deserves a better-informed, closer reader than me. Stevens's task is not an easy one, writing about the effects of poetry on the imagination. His essays are analogies about the idea of analogy.Rather than verse that depends on prosodic effects (rhythm, rhyme) and imagery, what we might call poetry of perception, his is a poetry of apperception, one that in the act of satisfying the desire for resemblance it touches the sense of reality, it enhances the the sense of reality, heightens it. (p. 77)
This selection of essays represents Stevens's thought about the craft and meaning of poetry. Based primarily on talks that he gave over a period of years the essays are informative while also being difficult and problematical at times. In their difficulty they mirror much of his poetry.
Stevens' one book of collected prose. It really helps to ground and explain his poetry.
Stevens is a brilliant thinker, and I love how he moves between philosophy and his work as a writer in regards to how we seek truth. Smart, well written, and thoroughly engaging.
really empowering stuff about the role of the artist, and a good explanation of literary modernism.
Currently re-thinking King Lear’s depictions of resemblances out of control. Stevens’ meditation on how resemblance creates meaning by intensifying structures of reality was a fertile point of departure in considering how the play deviates from this. Though I doubt that his definition of poetry as “elevated truth” was new even in his day.
This is the rare book, like Treasure of the Humble by Maeterlinck or The Edge of the Sea by Rachel Carson, that unexpectedly transports the reader to a realm of serenity, not as an escape from reality, but as a pleasant reminder of the good in life.
Read in my Poetics class.
An impression: Through out his life, Wallace Stevens had a profound interest in imagination: its meaning, value,and position in art and letters and how it is tied to reality and reason.
Can one merely reason beauty or the normal within the abnormal?
Imagination enables us to live beyond terror and suffering; it gives validity to our inner identity.
It allows us to handle reality without fantasy, fear and doctrine.
Poetic expression, for example, blends reality with fiction, allowing for heart and humanity.
Imagination is the "Necessary Angel" (fictive) that takes us by the hand (the real) and leads us confidently out of the saturnine in our lives.
I’m glad I read this book. It was not an easy read. There are several, pretty brief essays, on philosophy, art, poetry and the imagination. The author seems to make statements in the most difficult way possible, but they are thoughtful and thought provoking nonetheless. I read it, I paid attention, and I have a few things to think about as regards metaphor, and the imagination and art.
"What has just been said demonstrates that there are degrees of the imagination, as, for example, degrees of vitality and, therefore, of intensity. It is an implication that there are degrees of reality."-The Noble Rider, 2
quite good. i esp like the coconuts bit.
...though the poem that is the second of the "Three Academic Pieces," "Someone Puts Together a Pineapple," is amazing.
There aren't enough stars.
This is a library book and my favorite part so far is "Reality is things as they are." underlined with !!!!!!!!!!!Remember!!!!!!!! written in the margin.
I'm sure this is a six star book, but every now and then the virile youth goes dickhead in a less than interesting way.
