https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16718083-the-redemption-of-callie-kayden
Ebook will be released tomorrow, July 30th :)
NEW COVER REVEAL!!!  GOOD NEWS ABOUT THE RELEASE DATE!!  The one you see there for Feb 11, 2014 is for the PAPERBACK!! The eBook will be released much earlier and we'll have a fixed date very soon :) YAYYY!!! EDIT (just after finishing book #1) --> Holy brutal fucking cliffhanger!! Please please pleeeease let this book have an early release. Tomorrow would be good. Or today. I'll take either one. I NEED TO KNOW WHAT HAPPENS DAMMIT!!!If you have already read book #1 and want a leeeetle relief, check out this  Teaser From Book #2
So, I'm not gonna do a big review yet, but I will say it's worth the wait.
I loved Kayden Owens and his amazing heart!
I loved Callie and her will not to give up where Kayden's concerned.
I really loved this continuation of Callie and Kayden.
Though it makes me more anxious to read Luke's book next!!
YAY for Luke's book, I love him!
Oh and I love Kayden, really.
AHHHHHHHHHH CAN'T WAIT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
LOVE THE COVER.
CAN'T WAIT FOR MORE KAYDEN KAYDEN KAYDEN KAYDEN!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Omg I was stressing about having to wait for a year, but it's not true.
5 Beautiful and Healing Stars!!! In ‘The Coincidence of Callie and Kayden’, Callie Lawrence was saved by Kayden Owens. Now Kayden may be the one who needs saving...It’s been 7 months and 14 days since I’ve read ‘The Coincidence of Callie and Kayden’. It was easily one of my favorite books of 2012. And we all know it had one helluva cliffhanger! Well, it was worth the wait! I thought the sequel was fantastic. And it picked up right where the first book left off... Callie is worried about Kayden.
Now Kayden may be the one who needs saving...It’s been 7 months and 14 days since I’ve read ‘The Coincidence of Callie and Kayden’.
Kayden is one of my favorite book boyfriends.
Once they can get to the point where Kayden can trust Callie and open up to her, things were much better.
The thing about Callie and Kayden that I love so much is that they both are broken.
He’s the only thing that makes her happy.
Not only do I love both Callie and Kayden, but Seth and Luke are two of the best friends/supporting characters.
Maybe it was fate that guided me there so I could save him and he could save me and then it could lead us here to this moment where we are both completely content and free and glad we’re alive.’- Callie, THE REDEMPTION OF CALLIE AND KAYDENIf I were good in finding romantic images that resembled Callie and Kayden, I would have pasted my review full with it.
Love it.After reading the first book in the series THE COINCIDENCE OF CALLIE AND KAYDEN in December 2012 and realizing that the second book was due to release in February 2013, I can say that I was friggin happy because that cliffhanger was unacceptable.
Just loved it...Love that Kayden!! Full review to come
Thank you!I can't even begin to describe all of the emotions this book made me feel while I read it.
He is such a broken man that he doesn't feel worthy of Callie and her love.
While trying to figure out how to deal with his demons, he pushes her away.Callie is also carrying around a heavy secret that has traumatized her for the past 6 years.
She will have to decide if it's worth confronting her past in order to heal and have a future with Kayden.
Through all of their pain and suffering, they found comfort and healing with each other and it was so beautiful.
5 stars !!! I loved this book HARD !!! Kayden"I can't really do anything with you right now." ~ its the stupidest thing that's ever left my lips, but it needs to be said. She deserves better than the broken piece of shit that I am. You need to walk away from me. PLEASE, walk away.Kayden ! What a beautiful soul ! There was something about Kayden's story that took hold of my heart from page one of   and never let go ! I was seeking personal redemption for him......I'm looking into his eyes and he
I wanted to take back the precious moments in LIFE that were stolen from them.CallieSkittish cat turned sex-kitten......I loved how Callie evolved !
The love she had for Kayden is what helped him to heal.
Callie's love definitely healed all Kayden's wounds.
Maybe if I try hard enough, we'll fall into each other and become one single person and we can share our pain instead of carrying it by ourselves.You are the only person who I can ever feel whole with.#10 FACE THE TRUTH AND LET IT GOHere is about the time in the book when I lost my shit.
Beautiful moments of when they decided to let the truth set them free.
02.28.13I NEED THIS BOOK ASAP!!!HURRY UP!!!
Kayden cares about Callie and wants to protect her at all costs.
He knows he is damaged and the last thing he wants for her to bring her down with him, but Callie doesn’t want Kayden to withdraw and protect her.
Callie cares about Kayden wants to be there for him to help him.Lost on what to do and how to help she gets roped into a road trip idea with Seth and Luke.
Callie is so selfless in her love for Kayden, and Kayden may not understand his feelings, but he knows she deserves the best.
Cut one star for the stupid, rushed and abrupt ending.. I mean seriously author,  we read for the endingings!! Hope their 3rd book comes out ASAP!!
5 soul touching stars! "You don’t forget. You just move past it. Let go. Be who you were supposed to be instead of who they make you feel like you should be.” You know when you are following a series and you left with a horrible cliffy from book 1? Sometimes you cannot wait for book 2, sometimes you don't care and forget about it...?Well let me tell you that this book is one that definitely cannot be forgotten about.This filled with pain, raw emotion, hurt , unconditional friendship, love and re
Thank god!!what good is being alive when he feels empty inside?Dealing with what happened to him, Kayden is in a dark place."Each word was a cut—a scar.
Scar.The only person who can bring him into the light to feel the things he deserves to feel is Callie."Whenever she looks at me, I swear she steals another piece of my soul."Callie is so strong in this book.
She let's out her secrets, faces her fears for Kayden and herself."And what do you think will come from us telling someone?""Freedom.”Their true strength is only seen when they are together...
OH MY FUCKING GOD.Thank goodness there is a sequel. I all but died inside when I real the ending of The Coincidence of Callie and Kayden. I literally didn't know what I'll do with myself if there isn't a second book.
5 Amazing redeeming starts!!  I’ve waited months for this book and in the end of reading it the only thing I have to say is: Totally worth the wait!!   “I wish for happiness in a world full of sorrow. “After that horrible and crazy cliffhanger in the end of the first book, things aren’t looking pretty for Callie and Kayden. She doesn’t know how to help him and can’t even see him which doesn’t help with her own problems that seem to aggravate during the time Kayden’s closed in a mental facility.B
She doesn’t know how to help him and can’t even see him which doesn’t help with her own problems that seem to aggravate during the time Kayden’s closed in a mental facility.But although Kayden realizes that the only thing he truly wants is Callie, he refuses to let her get into his messed up life and head.
So not giving up on the other they will eventually find strength together to deal with their ghosts and the darkness in their pasts, so they can finally find happiness in a world where sorrow peaks in every corner.And their ride is just beautiful!
07.03.134.5 StarsI feel like I say this about every Jessica Sorensen book I read but I swear this woman puts me through a gamut of emotions. Redemption of Callie & Kayden was one of my most anticipated sequels of 2013 and I don't even know if I can grasp everything that happened or begin to explain to you how I felt. My thoughts and feelings are in a complete cluster f*ck right now. I cant even. *Full Review to Come** ARC provided by Publisher via NetGalley--------------------------------------------------------This is me waiting for this book…
I NEED THIS FREAKING BOOK, LIKE I NEED MY NEXT FREAKING BREATH!!!!!!!!!!!!! <3
The Redemption of Callie and Kayden was a brilliant sequel to their story!
The story picks up right at the horrible ending of The Coincidence of Callie and Kayden and took me on a journey of healing and love.
This romance was one of my favorites to date and I loved how Callie never gave up even when she might have felt like it.
Now I can’t wait to read Luke and Violet’s story next in The Destiny of Violet and Luke.
Fans of Callie and Kayden will not be disappointed!One of my favorite quotes:
"You saved me from a lifetime of self-loathing and torture. You saved me from myself, from my pain, from the painful, lonely future I'd set up for myself."  (Finally made a review. :D)I finished this book weeks ago and I rated it 5 stars. Why? because it's simply beautiful!The Redemption of Callie and Kayden is way too intense, touching, and emotional compared to the first book The Coincidence of Callie and Kayden. There is so much to love in this sequel. I really feel the emotions when both Ka
I really feel the emotions when both Kayden and Callie experienced so much pain and struggle just to to survive and be healed from their awful situations.
I literally cried… especially during the (view spoiler)[ time when Callie finally told his family about what happened to her and what Caleb had done to her.
(hide spoiler)] I don’t normally cry while reading but this totally got me.
Have I known, I would have picked lots of tissues before I started it in the first place.The romance between Callie and Kayden also got me in my feels!
It also kind of made me realize that I haven't got it too bad.Another reason why I might have liked this more than I normally would maaay just be because of this Bollywood movie I watched prior to my reading fest (it's called 2 States and yes- shitty parents strike once again!) Even though about 95.8% of the time, the situations that authors like to present to us through these romance stories never actually exist in real life, it's still nice to have a little hope instilled within you every now and then, right?
After reading the first book in the series, The Coincidence of Callie and Kayden, I couldn’t wait to get my hands on this installment.
Jessica Sorenson delivers another emotional story that left me satisfied… but with mixed feelings.The Redemption of Callie and Kayden picks up where book one left off.
While Callie struggles with finding a way to re-establish a connection with Kayden, he is slowly drowning in pain and despair.
Both these characters are a mystery and I can’t wait to read their story.The Redemption of Callie and Kayden took me on one hell of an emotional rollercoaster ride that never let up.
"I can't do this without you." ~ Callie   "….fear owned me." ~ Callie  After reading the Coincidence of Callie and Kayden for the first time in February, I was left reeling from the cliff hanger...aghhh!!! How could the author be so crawl and finish the book at, what felt like, the middle of a chapter? I was even a little angry, not like me at all!!! Then along comes the sequel, The Redemption of Callie & Kayden and all is right in my book world again. It was so worth the wait, the anticipa
Then along comes the sequel, The Redemption of Callie & Kayden and all is right in my book world again.
It was so worth the wait, the anticipation; it may even have made me love the book a whole lot more in the end.The story is told beautifully from the POV of both Callie and Kayden, some of the action is repeated from both perspectives which worked perfectly in my opinion.
My heart hurt reading this book, even when the characters are happy together they have so much pain trapped inside, and there are elements in their lives that are so damaged, you wonder how they can 
I don't really know how to express it, it's simply that all this suffering and injustice clashes with an incredible beauty and creates a perfect mix that I don't wanna stop reading.Witnessing how these characters, especially Kayden and Callie, survive, learn and love is amazing.****This review contains spoilers from book 1**** Book two starts right after Kayden was stabbed by his father and he tried to cut his wrists to make it all go away.
This book goes deeper into both Kayden and Callie's feelings.
Instead of making her do that, he is determined to protect her which means leaving her and letting her go.Callie knows what he is going through and wants to be there for him.
To do this, she would have to dig up her past and share to everyone what had happened on her 12th birthday.
I know that the third book is about Luke which is good since he is still a mystery after these two books.I was touched and was able to relate and understand these characters despite never going through anything remotely as difficult as that.
After waiting almost two years to finally pick up this book up, I was expecting...more.
I don't know what it is with this author and always trying to milk a damn story.
Here were my thoughts when I first found out about this book: (view spoiler)[New Release Date: February 11, 2014...I REALLY hope that there was some kind of mistake and that it will keep it's original release date.
If we have to wait over a year for the next one I am DONE with Jessica Sorensen's books.First it was The Forever of Ella and Micha who's date got pushed to a ridiculous time and now this?!
3-3.5starsJessica Sorensen has a way with words and creates amazing characters.
She seems to have trouble following up amazing books though.
Considering where we left off from the first book (which was incredible btw), this sequel seemed so anti-climactic.
(view spoiler)[Although I did think that the moment Callie confessed her abuse to her dad was so moving and powerful.
(hide spoiler)]And the ending, I don't know what to make of it.
The next book is not even about this couple?
It's certainly not that rude cliffhanger we had to live with in The Coincidence but what kind of an ending was this?
4 stars
Please hurry. I am not good in dealing with angst. I need to know what is happening! Please also write a story about Luke and Seth? They each deserve to have their own stories. They are both such powerful characters!Update: A-frickin-mazing! So good, but holy hell can we say cliff hanger! I hope Caleb's butt roasts and Kaydens dad gets what's coming to him! Being on book 3!
Come on, out with it! I will seriously lose interest in about a week and forget all about the Coincidence, which was on par with Twilight (my fave ever), and then i wont remember for five years and that would suck. So either put it out or give us a real date or just put out another teaser that says he died so I can move on with my life already, thank you.
This wasn't a bad book but not a great one either.
As with the last Jessica Sorensen book the secret of Ella and Micha there wasn't an ending but just a "see how this finishes in 2013" and leaves with a major cliffhanger.
I just think people will get frustrated reading through an entire book to want to know the ending to get to it to find that yup, you will have to wait half a year to figure it out.
I would recommend waiting until the next installment is available so that you can actually know the end of the book.
I still consider the first one: My Favorite book ever in the whole wide world… This was just an ‘’ excellent ‘’ book for me… not a ‘’ OMG I want to rip my heart open ‘’ book.Callie and Kayden had their share of bad experiences…This book is about… suffering, breathing, believing, and overcoming.
A heart that was stronger than you thought you had.But loving is not the hard part… letting yourself be loved, when you don’t understand why someone would want to be with someone like you … is the hard part.
