https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1162543.Breaking_Dawn
She is far more concerned about nameless, faceless people mocking her for getting married young than she is about the happiness of the man she claims to love more than life itself.
Once Bella falls in love with Edward, she is confronted with some very difficult choices.
If she wants to be with Edward, she must choose to leave human life behind her and become a vampire.
Bella has to confront all of this and choose to sacrifice the value of her humanity for the love she feels for Edward.
By the time we’re finished reading about Bella’s new life as a vampire, we have to wonder why anyone wouldn’t want to be a vampire.
Here we go.p.8: yep, Edward is already "going overboard" protecting Bella.p.20: Her parents think it's a good idea for her to marry this weirdo at 18?
Awesome.p.354: Wow, I really didn't think she would actually have Bella become a vampire!p.360: THIS HAD BETTER NOT BE WHAT I THINK IT IS, THAT'S ALL I HAVE TO SAY.p.377: So apparently becoming a vampire feels like the worst torture imaginable, ever ever, but she's not going to scream because it might upset Edward.p.405: Well, thank god she is able to find a flaw in her looks even though she's a goddesslike beauty now.
What happened to the story that captured the hearts of girls everywhere?You can't fall in love with your characters so much you save them from the dilemma you created: the impossibilities of vampire and human love, the instinctual need to destroy between vampires and werewolves, the girl who has to choose between two boys in opposing worlds, the boy who gets left out, the girl who has to make massive sacrifices for her choice.
This is Bella and Edward's story and Jacob is a distraction.
The point at which I started hating this book was when Bella didn't even act like a vampire.
Stephenie Meyer did not follow this example in any way, shape, or form.Instead of possibly creating an internal plot that would follow the entire series, every book has...well, I cannot justify a plot in any of the books, save the first one (that was in the last 100 pages of the book), so I'll try to skim sweetly over this.
The child's name itself is atrocious; I honestly hope no one loves this series enough to name their own child that, out of their "love for Stephenie Meyer."Let's remember what I said before: there is not a sustaining plot throughout these books, besides the fact that Bella wants to become a vampire; but even that is stretching it.
Robert Pattinson hates Twilight so much, it's hysterical.Interviewer: “Millions of Twilight fans, they cannot wait to see this, it’s almost heartbreaking because they don’t want it to be over. It’s a little bittersweet, isn’t it?”That look on his face is pure, unadulterated joy.And let's not forget this:From the mouth of the guy who plays him.Or these:And of course, the rest of the cast:
I am so happy Edward and Bella got their proper wedding & honeymoon and more importantly....that I got to read about it like I was right there!
It released all the pain Jacob had to endure by being in love with Bella but knowing she would never be his.
One of my absolute favorite parts (there are so many I have to say) was at the end when Bella removes her "shield" so Edward can read her thoughts.
Read some of the reviews on Amazon or GoodReads and you will find a certain type of person who feels that Bella's character fails as a role model for young women today.
But even without it, this book is the best evidence that Meyer wasn't really writing a sloppy romance saga for misty-eyed girls, but was instead telling a story about the eternal power of love and self-denial.
So I have demoted the book from 5 stars to 4 and begun to ruminate on the topic of why Meyer -- a woman possessed of such clear imagination -- was unwilling or unable to make Bella's life hard.
Was that because she wasn't as female as she should be?Okay, it's always been obvious that the only things Smeyer finds important in life are marriage and babies, the younger the better, but what the fuck, y'all.
That whole mess with chromosomes, and how vampires have 25 and humans have 23 which is why Alice can see their futures but she can't see werewolves' futures because they have 24, and the reason she can't see the bb is because it has the average of Bella and Edward - what the hell is that?
Thinking about boys leads to thinking about holding hands and kissing, which leads to thinking about sex, which is bad.Don't wonder about how babies are made and don't ever wonder where you came from.
(Newsflash: most parents keep having sex after their kids are born).And girls, especially don't think about other girls in the way you should be thinking about boys.
If you must think about the thing you're not supposed to think about, it should be about boys.
You don't need to know that some boys only want you for the feelings the magic baby-maker between your legs gives him.
Oh the memories. The angsty teen memories. They're all flooding back.It should come as no surprise that I have a dark and dangerous past - I was a Twihard. I loved this series with every beat of my teenage heart. I had a poster, I had a vegetarian vampire shirt, I had a themed birthday party, and (worst of all) I did this to a book:    I can't even open it anymore for fear of the pages falling out and the spine splintering...yet I can't bear to throw it away.And now (ten years later), I'm revisi
I very nearly memorized the series as a teen so during the reread, it was nice to see the scenes with fresh eyes after all this time.
25-year-old me couldn't stop noticing how he kept trying to force himself on Bella in Eclipse and then did the whole woe-is-me when Bella kept trying to tell him to stop (even when she was married.) That werewolf needed a firm kick in the teeth.
I still enjoyed the series but it just doesn't hold to my memory.
Nearly every adult male had the same voice and the accents of the new/visiting vampires wasn't distinct enough.
By the time she finishes her honeymoon with Edward, she has gone from being this average teenager who is in love enough to marry her boyfriend but doesn’t want to jump into a marriage for fear of being thought of as “small-town”, to a married, pregnant eighteen year old who is so intent upon keeping her incubus child that she is willing to die so that the thing can live.
It’s almost like Stephenie Meyer wanted to stuff five years of normal life into Edward and Bella’s magical existence for the sake of not having to write a fifth book.
****For you dumbasses people that look up to Bella Swan and think she's an inspiration (if such people exist in the world), read this:12 Things That The Twilight Series Taught Me1.
When a vampire wants to kill you, hide out on a mountain and run for your life while your boyfriend's family fight to protect you.
3. It is the most romantic and beautiful thing in the world when a guy you barely know oils your bedroom window to watch you sleep when you don't even know it.4.
When you have a hot sexy vampire boyfriend, it's okay to give up a promising future to be with him instead.8.
Breaking Dawn changed that.And in Jacob's point of view, we see how badly the pregnancy is affecting Bella--this is also a good part of the book.
Let's weigh all the characteristics.Everything that happened in cliche fan fiction happened here, including:- Pregnant Bella- Stupid names- OOC-ness (Out Of Character, if you can't figure it out)- The commonness of gifted vampires- Bella's self-control gift- Two gifts for Bella- Jacob imprinting- Charlie knowing the secretI'm sure there's more, but I don't want to think a lot.Please don't read this.August 30th, 2008 UPDATE:Okay, so I've gotten over the initial shock of the book.
Playing their typical support roles, it felt a little rushed at times, almost like Meyer's heart wasn't really in it - as I understand it she wrote this book because her publisher wanted her to, like with the previous two; Twilight was meant to be a stand-alone novel in the beginning.
It's a classic love story, it's just that the circumstances are a little different.So, I guess the long and the short of it is, I loved the book, yet it wasn't wholly satisfying, like there was something missing, some part of character development maybe, or maybe I'm just wishing Edward was more fleshed out, now that Bella's like him and he's no longer an alien species.
Not even considering how insanely bad the plot and writing were, the morals the book presents made me wonder how Stephenie even managed to get it published.
Bella never stopped considering her choice to become a vampire until she had sex with Edward and then suddenly wanted to hold back.
Chill out, he'll imprint on your babies and then you won't ever have to worry about them getting in the way of your perfect love life again.
See you in six years when she tries to make babies with the werewolf and we get pissed off at you again.
Divided into three parts, the first and third sections are written from Bella Swan's perspective and the second is written from the perspective of Jacob Black.
The novel directly follows the events of the previous novel, Eclipse, as Bella and Edward Cullen get married, leaving behind a heartbroken Jacob.
And no, I didn't see THAT one coming...In the beginning of the book, Bella is bitching (of course) about this really awesome car Edward brought for her that many people are asking about (good way to start, amirite?).
She just wants everything to get over with it so she can DO IT with her beloved vampire 'lover.' However, she hasn't told her father or her mother that she's getting married yet.
Bella is then dying, but Edward finally turns her into a sexy vampire.
Bella loved it even more when she did it with Edward as a vampire.
Like the entire book (and series) built up to this huge final battle.
The end.
At least the movie changed the ending to actually do something.
(hide spoiler)]It just kept fading to black any time something remotely interesting could've happened.
This might be the most anti-climactic ending I've ever found.Plus, most of the story was just straight up odd.
And Bella just had a baby but sexy times are obviously the priority before she meets her kid...?I had fun with the first 3 books, but this one just fell apart.
I DID like the idea of all of the foreign vampires, but even that wasn't used much.Also:["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
It was impossible to bond with any of the characters in the book, especially Edward, who became no more than a peripheral sperm donor.Each plot development/"twist" was either so ridiclulous I wanted to scream, or so predictable that I had to groan.
We didn't have enough quality time with our old favorites...not enough of Alice after the wedding and definitely not enough sexy Edward.She spent alot of time on the baby, but I found myself completely unable to bond with her....maybe because even Bella spent more time worrying about sex than she did about the baby.
For the entire series, Bella's sexuality is held hostage to Edward's rules and whims.
Bella has to beg, plead and scheme her way into more sex.
Stephenie Meyer made the Native Americans in her story werewolves, and then spends the entire series calling them feral, wild, dogs, smelly and assuring us they are the lesser supernatural race.
Then, in this book, we get vampires from all over the world, and all of the people of color are wild or described in the most painful and stereotypical ways.
"But they are supernatural beings who don't follow our rules." Like, okay people.
I suggested to her father that the logical next step would be for me to sneak in through her bedroom window and steal Breaking Dawn.
The story so far: Bella, a shy, bookish, unimaginative 17 year old girl who's never been kissed, falls in love with Edward, who once was human but has now been transformed, by means not fully explained in the books, into a robot-like being with an insatiable craving for blood.
Edward tries to control every aspect of Bella's life, including stealing into her bedroom at night and watching over her while she sleeps.
At one point, Edward leaves Bella abruptly, pushing her into a state of suicidal despair.
The beginning of the book is a continuation of the end of Eclipse, with Bella preparing for hers and Edward's wedding.
Just how we came to the two of them getting married is bad enough; she wants to have sex with Edward and be turned into a vampire.
While everyone else who's undergone the transformation has writhed in pain for the duration, screaming for days on end, brave little Bella manages to keep herself completely under control.
Renesmee will end up with Jacob the Wolfboy, and Bella is perfectly happy that her father knows just enough about her "situation" to be able to visit and not be in danger of knowing their deepest, darkest secret.
Meyer does neither.This belonging in the long, half-assed written series soon fizzles after the first of two or three total anticlimaxes.
And not the cool Tod Browning freaks we are accustomed to ("We Accept You!
These freaks are here to keep the family values intact, to uphold the freaky status quo.
the series is a long and sad disappointment.
If I were the band Muse (one I too am a fan of) & Meyer dedicated her book to us, I would seriously fire my managers & take forever to get over the existentialist rut her endorsement would've undoubtedly inspired.
I'd like to start out this review with three simple words that pretty much give away my feelings for this particular story (for those of you who have no desire to read my rant).I hated it.My friend --who stayed up reading the night it came out -- called me very early the morning of the 2nd and told me quite a bit of the plot.
Truthfully, I'd be totally happy to overlook all the imprinting shit along with the married and pregnant at 18, the way Bella can't survive without a boyfriend (be it Edward or Jacob), or...
The first book from this series comes with a great and unique story line that will leave you hanging until the last pages, but believe me, the torture will be worth it.I am a big fan of the series and of the movies, but the books always had a special place in my heart because it is impossible to capture all the details of the plot in just 2 hours of shooting.So, because of this, the book rock and give you a complete image of the Twilight universe.In Breaking Dawn, we have the great moment we all have been waiting for: Bella and Edward's wedding!!
Or should I go right to the only really good part of the book, which was meeting all the different vampire clans, covens, and nomads, in preparation for a confrontation with the Volturi, only to have it build up to exactly nothing?Stephenie Meyers has betrayed her readers on a scale that I have only ever seen from Laurell K.
Unfortunately, this was mitigated by having Jacob's section focus almost entirely on Bella and the pregnancy, and ended with the most horrific delivery scene I've ever read and Jacob's imprinting on baby Nessie (no joke about the nickname, sadly).
“I want you, and I want you forever. One lifetime is simply not enough for me.”  I want to start this review with reminiscing my good old days when I was a teenager and had been waiting the movies to come out. Twilight was more than just my childhood imagination, it was likely my second world to escape the truth and live my life in the small town where supernatural creatures are real. Everyone wants to be someone important for those you love. This book also answered each question that I've kept
Twilight was more than just my childhood imagination, it was likely my second world to escape the truth and live my life in the small town where supernatural creatures are real.
Everyone wants to be someone important for those you love.
It feels like forever since I started reading Twilight and my life was fulfilled by the idea that love is not only between the pages of the book, but it also exists in real life if you look at it closely.Thank you, Stephanie !
Love is real and my memory will stay with this series forever.
True perfection is becoming EXACTLY like your boyfriend and his family.3.
The consequences of sex include having a baby.
The consequences of having a baby might include having your spine broken and your womb shredded by vampire teeth.4.
If you choose to sacrifice everything to become like your boyfriend, so that you are no longer recognizable as yourself, it's okay, because all of your friends and family will totally support that.5.
6. Renesmee is possibly the stupidest name in non-existence, but that's okay because it was picked by a teenager.
Bella gets to have the love of her life, amazing human sex, a baby (and we didn’t have an inkling she WANTED to be a mother), and become a super powerful vamp with no ‘newborn’ stage at all (although I was happy to finally discover her immunity to the powers of others is actually a special talent of her own…even though she did gain control over it a little too quickly for a newborn vamp, it’s nice to have an explanation nonetheless).
I think Jacob could have ended up happy without Bella in a much more pragmatic way, personally.The Cullens – First I’ll say I missed Alice tremendously!!!
Mislim da je ovaj serijal trebalo da se završi samo s jednim tomom i to Sumrakom... Onaj vampirski porođaj u Praskozorju mi je mnogo teško pao (mentalno), a naporađala sam se silnih žena po knjigama Danijele Stil (ponekad sam imala i po 2 porođaja po jednoj knjizi) te se mogu smatrati za prevodioca-akušera s ogromnim iskustvom... :)
