https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6588511-35-sonnets
Poe wrote stories about doppelgangers (see "William Wilson", link here to my review.) And indeed the poet and writer Fernando António Nogueira Pessoa had over 70 alter-egos during his lifetime.
Clearly they were facets of Pessoa's own character, but he maintained they were separate entities, or "Other."35 Sonnets was self-published in 1918, along with another short volume of verse, when Pessoa was thirty years of age, and before he had achieved any literary success.
The Elizabethan sonnet is an interesting and highly structured form by which to express these thoughts about reality, illusion, paradox and the self.
Like a child frighted by its mirrored faces, Our souls, that children are, being thought-losing, Foist otherness upon their seen grimaces And get a whole world on their forgot causing; And, when a thought would unmask our soul's masking, Itself goes not unmasked to the unmasking.-As to a child, I talked my heart asleep With empty promise of the coming day, And it slept rather for my words made sleep Than from a thought of what their sense did say.
I'd never read any Pessoa before and I plan on reading The Book of Disquiet, but I wanted to get a feel of his style and this was short and lovely.
He's quite painful to read because he's confused and nauseous right before your eyes, and it's blurry and full of headache, loss and self hatred.
The subtle juxtaposition of the form of the sonnet and the horror and confusion and annihilation of both self and the meaning of being is really strange and powerful, I think since they're very short I'll be reading them again in the future.
Thy words are torture to me, that scarce grieve thee-- That entire death shall null my entire thought; And I feel torture, not that I believe thee, But that I cannot disbelieve thee not.Shall that of me that now contains the stars Be by the very contained stars survived?
Yet what truth bars An all unjust Fate's truth from being believed?
Conjecture cannot fit to the seen world A garment of its thought untorn or covering, Or with its stuffed garb forge an otherworld Without itself its dead deceit discovering; So, all being possible, an idle thought may Less idle thoughts, self-known no truer, dismay.
Holy shit, Fernando, buddy: do you want a hug or something?
I read this for the Portugal stop of my Around the World in 80 Books challenge. Whilst I do not tend to read sonnets very often, I liked this collection for adding something a little different to my reading. Only a few of these sonnets were really to my taste, and although I found Pessoa's prose rich and intelligent, I found it difficult to connect with the majority of them due to their content, or the archaic feel of their prose. I certainly found interest within Pessoa's writing, though, and will try more of his work in the future.

This is the first time I've read Pessoa's poetry and I don't know why it took me so long. His poetry is as strange as the man himself. These sonnets are dark and existential and invoke a certain feeling. If you love reading strange, unusual, philosophical writing you will no doubt enjoy Fernando Pessoa.
I liked that he used an old form of poetry and his themes were ahead of his time, but nothing spoke to me
"..in the heat of error's youth""Beauty and love let no one separate"
Good.
I am sad.The outer day, void statue of lit blue,Is altogether outward, other, gladAt mere being not-I (so my aches construe).I, that have failed in everything, bewailNothing this hour but that I have bewailed,For in the general fate what is't to fail?Why, fate being past for Fate, 'tis but to have failed.Whatever hap-or stop, what matters it,Sith to the mattering our will bringeth nought?With the higher trifling let us world our wit,Conscious that, if we do't, that was the lotThe regular stars bound us to, when they stoodGodfathers to our birth and to our blood.
— Sonnet XXXV
I like Pessoa; at least, I like to think I would have liked him, would have liked to have had salad, folar de chaves, and wine with him at some Lisbon sidewalk cafe....but there's his poetry.
Still, one must give credit to anyone that writes original works in a language foreign to them, not in their "mother tongue".I have read and reviewed the Penguin Books Pessoa collection A Littler Larger Than the Entire Universe and feel the same about the poems there: like or dislike, cut and dried, black or white.
Now I need to read his Antinous.....maybe with some salad, folar de chaves, and wine.
I'm also reading the Book of Disquiet and I think the works go together nicely - brilliant and just plain weird at times. But every now and then an absolutely perfect phrase. The first one is a standout:"...Our soul from us is infinitely far. However much we give our thoughts the will To be our soul and gesture it abroad, Our hearts are incommunicable still..."
Not feeling the sonnets. Annoying style, though I love Pessoa's quotes. I think I probably picked the worst place to start reading. Maybe at another time in my life I'll have the patience to read these slower.
It was very difficult to understand the poems. There was some wordplay I liked.
I love him. For the unsettled feeling. For unease beating. “I love my love for thee more than I love thee.”
I won't lie to you and claim that I understood all that Pessoa crammed into these sonnets. They are an existential feast, from which I was able to find nourishment.
"Siamo nati all’imbrunire e al mattino moriamo,E del mondo conosciamo l’intera oscurità,Dunque come intuirne possiamo la verità,Noi, buia conseguenza dello splendore assenteCui solo le stelle fanno luce. AdoperiamoI lor vaghi bagliori con i pensieri che vaganoE, benché i loro occhi vedano nell’oscurità,Tuttavia non parlano delle fattezze del dì.Perché quei luminosi dinieghi dell’universoPiù del buio intenso attraggono i soddisfatti sguardi?Perché quello che si dice «meritevole» l’animaPrigioniera aggiunge al piccolo e lo sottrae al grande?Così, amando la luce e desiderando la notteOscuramente abbiamo del giorno un pensiero notturno."(Sonetto XIV, p. 51)
While reading the first sonnets, I kept thinking, "What a philosopher." Little did I know Pessoa actually was one.Well, it shows (in the best way possible:)
