https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57778.The_Moon_s_a_Balloon

Charming. Absolutely charming.This isn't the greatest of memoirs I have read but Niven's rather down to earth narration makes it worthwhile. For someone so well known, he could have been much more arrogant but it is one of the aspects that makes this book so readable that he does not mind telling of his failures.And, yet, I would have hoped for more insights and opinions rather than a more or less straight run-down of his life and career.
These vicissitudes are well in evidence in this, his first set of memoirs, that was a huge bestseller on both sides of the Atlantic.
If you, the reader, object to chronic name-dropping then this book is probably not for you; but when the names dropped are this memorable and so ably drawn, warts and all, it does make for a superlative set of memoirs.
This book is pretty much still a dream read, even after the passage of over 45 years.
Later Niven would published a second, and just as highly acclaimed set of memoirs, Bring on the Empty Horses.
It deals exclusively with Niven's Hollywood years.
Rather than have me go on and on about it's awesomeness, I'll give you some highlights from the first two chapters:the FIRST paragraph:"Nessie, when I first saw her, was seventeen years old, honey-blonde, pretty rather than beautiful, the owner of a voluptuous but somehow innocent body and a pair of legs that went on forever.
She was a Piccadilly whore.""Grizel [my sister], who was two years older than me, became very interested in the shape and form of my private parts; but when after a particularly painful inspection, I claimed my right to see hers too, she covered up sharply and dodged the issue by saying, 'Well, it's a sort of flat arrangement.'""For the most part, the masters [at school] were even more frightening.
Its easy to see why this is considered one of the greatest Hollywood biographies.
Friends with the rich and famous from Marilyn Monroe (who he slept with) to JFK (who his wife slept with and caught chlamydia ) Niven came to epitomise the suave and sophisticated Englishmen - words that seem like they were invented for him, Serial adulterer he may have been but then you wouldn't want to read the book if he'd lived the life of a monk.
David Niven's friend Roger Moore wrote that he told splendid stories,but he also embellished them.I had earlier read his other book,Bring on the Empty Horses,and found it very enjoyable.The Moon's a Balloon is the story of his life,which saw him serve in the army,become a bootlegger,work as a movie extra,fight in World War II and become a major international movie star.It has its share of laughs,also highlighted are the hardships of his life.
I read this book nearly fifty years ago and again about twenty years ago. As one who almost never can find the humour or cause for side-splitting laughter in books that are supposed to be funny, I can cite "The Moon's a Balloon" as a book that made me truly laugh.
It helped that I always liked David Niven in films and the relatively early days of cinema are so interesting.
However, his early life and career during the Second World War were, dare I say it, even more captivating.
This is a laugh out loud funny book!
“ Benchley was one of the wittiest men alive, but unlike most people full of funny things to say, he was rather retiring.
… Benchley disappeared to Europe.
One day he cabled me, and in view of the address he used, the fact that it was delivered was flattering enough:VENICENIVENTRAVELHOLLYWOODSTREETS FULL OF WATER.
"Mmm. Trubshawe...Niven..."Goats? Bad show..."
An amusing memoir of the first half of David Niven's life.
However, there is WAY too much military stuff, that I admit I really really quickly skimmed through.
Also, one gets the sense that behind the gentlemanly air and self-deprecating humor, David Niven was not a nice person, with little respect for women and definitely someone who used others to rise to the top.
Articles I've read about him since his death seem to confirm this.I've also found his second book, "Bring on the Empty Horses," which focuses more on his movie career, and I've been told that it's a much funnier book that drags less.
Niven strikes me as the kind of person who worked very hard at being the perfect dinner party guest, honing his humorous anecdotes over so many years that he sort of forgot which had actually happened to him and which he had heard from someone else.
Niven was above all a socialite and I feel sure that there is no part of this book that was not a dinner party anecdote a hundred times before it got written down on the page.
From his early life with a distant stepfather, through his life in the Highland Light Infantry, before deciding to give up a military career to try his luck in Hollywood (although he returned to Britain to fight in World War II), Niven takes the reader on a journey packed with anecdotes and funny interludes.As he explains in the introduction, he drops names all over the place, particularly while talking about his film career, but he remains respectful throughout, and his genuine affection and respect for many of his contemporaries comes through.
A most enjoyable autobiographical read which clearly conveys the delightfully charming, mischievous, colorful, and witty, antics, experiences, and life, of one of Britain's best-known and much-loved actors - the archetypal English gentleman, David Niven; from his childhood in London where he was born in 1910, through the wartime years as a commissioned officer with the Highland Light Infantry, and his acceptance in the US as an accomplished actor during Hollywood's 'heydays', initially in the mid-1930's, and then following the 2nd World War, from the late 1940's and for the next 20+ years.
I read Bring on the Empty Horses a long time ago and he cracked me up then, so I was excited to read his autobiography.
His pre-Hollywood life is pretty fascinating, especially his army friends.
I did enjoy all the name-dropping, especially from his first days in Hollywood, but he started losing me after his Oscar win, and the last few pages just felt strange.
Or maybe it just felt rushed.
Oh well.In all, it's very funny, and very reminiscent of Douglas Fairbanks Jr's fist autobiography, which I read earlier this year (the two being friends helped, too).
David Niven is not just an actor who writes, he is an actor with something to say who says it well-in written form.
The combination of all 3 qualities is not so easily found.
What a surprise it was to me: I opened the door of this book because he was an actor whose work and presence I loved who knew other actors I was curious about.
I only closed the door because I knew I would come back.
I'm sorry he's gone; I'm glad he was here; I'm most glad he left us these written traces of his life.
Niven pretty much presents himself as an R-rated Beano character, and this collection of scrapes and practical jokes would arguably be better off in 'annual' format.
I found the first half of the book, which deals with his schooling and the military, good fun.
But the second half is a cavalcade of movie stars I know nothing about - I barely know who David Niven is, to be honest - so I lost interest.
I expect if you have seen more than three films made before 1970 you will have a different experience.
I read this at some point in the '90s. I don't recall any details, just a general sense of having read something pleasant and somewhat entertaining, befitting of the biography of a true, English gentleman.
I just love the man
Very interesting story. You can hear his voice. His history is worth the read.
This is one of those books that I had been meaning to read for years, especially after a trusted recommendation, but I was only a kind-of-fan of David Niven on screen.
Once I had got over the surprise at the rather fruity language and schoolboy humour of the book, I settled into a quick and entertaining read.
Most of the book concentrates on Niven's pre-Hollywood time at school and in the army.
Written in 1971, the book does encompass his whole life, and while it is generally light-hearted, with laugh out loud moments scattered liberally throughout, it is also peppered with tragedy.
A self deprecating recount of a life lived to the brim.
The books offered a fascinating insider view of Hollywood in the thirties to sixties, although I now know that some of Niven's stories were closer to fiction than fact in his quest to entertain his audience.[return][return]The audiobook of A Moon's a Balloon was recorded in 1977, and Niven is charming, funny, and a superb reader.
The audiobook also covers his return to the UK on the outbreak of war and his (eventually successful) attempts to rejoin the armed forces -- though Niven was always reluctant to talk about his war experience, and says very little about his time with the Commandos in the print book, and even less in the audiobook.
More than anything, David Niven reminds me of my grandfather. The same cultured voice (although my Papa had a combination of Received Pronunciation and whatever its Kiwi equivalent is, versus Niven’s UK Public School accent), the same approximate age, the impeccable grooming and, most importantly, the fact that he was a raconteur of the first order.I also remember seeing this book, and Niven’s later memoir  Bring On the Empty Horses , on my grandfather’s bookshelves as a child.Without doubt, Niv
, on my grandfather’s bookshelves as a child.Without doubt, Niven’s tale of his early life, time at school (many of them, as he was expelled from several), time in the British Army, both before and after he’d achieved some level of fame in Hollywood, his time in Hollywood mixing with the great names of the 30’s, 40’s and 50’s and his romances with his first wife, lost tragically and his second, make for a rollicking and enjoyable read.As you might imagine, Niven is a great storyteller, even if, as it turns out, he’s played a little fast and loose with the accuracy of the facts.It’s worth noting that Audible also has an audiobook of 
Not quite sure what my reaction to this book is.
It was fairly funny, and witty, and well-expressed, but somehow I kept getting frustrated by it.
He tends to put himself on the sidelines of most of his stories, when it's blatantly clear that he was the cause and confusion of the entire situation, not simply, as he seems to think, a passive character drifting along behind other peoples' eccentricities.
He also drifts over important events in his life that you really, desperately, want to know more about.
I want to know!So all in all ...
Is that clear enough?
I will only read autobiographies of people I like or people I admire.
David Niven is one of those people I admire.
The quintessentially Englishman who made it in Hollywood.
He was on a par with Chaplin and Stan Laurel.
So big a star he shared digs with Errol Flynn as they both became stars in their own right.
And yet at the very height of his stardom he came back to Britain to fight for King and country.
He was right.
A light reading, Niven's life is an entertaining life-story of an officer, a gentleman and a bit of an eccentric.
I read this book many years ago & absolutely loved it.This time around my enjoyment is slightly clouded by knowing that Niven didn't let facts get in the way of a good story & that he would have been unable to write that his second marriage was deeply unhappy.Also a lot of the names he drops are now forgotten.What is still very good & authentic sounding are his childhood memories & his grief at the death of his first wife. I'd actually be interested in reading one of the biographies (there are at least three) of this complex man.
I believe this to one of the best biography's I have ever read. For a start he writes it himself, and who know's him better?David Niven was a great natural narrator (in my opinion as good as Peter Ustinov) and he reflects this in his book. He tells it all, good, bad and the normal with equal verve and vigor. By the end of it you really feel as if you have had the priviledge to meet and understand what he meant and how he really enjoyed the life he had.
HiDavid Niven's autobiography is regarded by many to be one of the best written books of it's kind, and it is.One of the most comical books with his many exploits, especially with Errol Flynn, well they did get into so much trouble and got away with a lot more.Told with his wry and dry humour, laugh out loud comical moments, with great stories about many c-stars.Also worth reading his sequel to thisHighly recommended
Simply the most elegant, honest and funny biography you are ever likely to read. William Faulkner said he would read Don Quixote at least once a year, well I average Niven's biography every two - it is that good.You might not have rated Niven as an actor but as a writer he was an outright Oscar winner everytime.I have two copies: one I lend out and one I keep for myself.
I would never have read this book except it was the only book in my Grandmothers house that I had not read and I was stuck there during the school holidays. It was quite witty and a quick read. One suspects very strongly that Niven was less superficial than he made out to be. Maybe it was the understatedness of an Englishman of his generation.
