https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23664710-make-me
Holy crap. I am running away with Jack Reacher. I don't care if I never get to wash my clothes or eat regular meals.
Number 20 in the Jack Reacher series and one of the best out of all of them!
This Jack is slightly different from the usual and I wonder if Lee Child is planning on letting him have a relationship and stay in one place a while in the next book.
I very much enjoyed his interactions with Chang and laughed aloud several times at his humour.
Sure he still takes on three thugs at a time and wins but he also plans and strategises and works things out.
I thought this book was an excellent read, practically unputdownable and action packed.
Now this is a Jack Reacher book.
It starts with Reacher getting off a train in the small town of Mother's Rest.
He's curious about the name and thinks he might spend a day or so there, checking out any local museum, getting the story from the locals, etc.
Some might think it farfetched that Reacher would become involved with something this complex and complicated on such a bare minimum of interest, but this is classic Reacher and the book is a strong one.
You might need to steel yourself for those closing chapters, but this is a Reacher to remember and one of the strongest recent books in this series.
The woman's name is Michelle Chang, and Reacher walks her back to her motel where he takes a room for himself.But creepy things are afoot in the tiny town and some seriously bad guys are watching Chang's every move.
The next day, as Reacher is walking through the town, looking for a monument or something that would explain how the town got its name, the bad guys have a spy dogging Reacher's every step and become convinced that he is assisting Chang in investigating the town's dark secret.Chang has no clue what that secret might be.
Perhaps I have grown past Lee Child in this genre but I suspect it has more to do with the fact that once I loved Jack Reacher as described by Lee Child.
The direction of Child's books seem to be leaning toward a character that would fit Cruise rather than Reacher's persona and I find that very boring.
Sadly this will be my last Lee Child book and I didn't even bother to finish it.
I will miss him but we have grown apart.
The 20th book in the Jack Reacher series by Lee Child. Having read and enjoyed the previous 19 in the series it was inevitable that I would read this one. All the books in this series have lots of action and this was no exception. A decent story and the book kept me interested throughout but never quite hit the heights of some of the previous ones. I think these books are my guilty pleasure, they are not that well written but good fun.
I proudly admit, right up front, that I am a genuine, card-carrying Reacher Creature. I will follow Reacher wherever he goes. I will read all future books and see all future movies. This book did not disappoint. Right from Chapter One, Reacher is in trouble, even though he doesn't know it yet. The story and the characters are meticulously rolled out, and the full final explanation of what was really going on just blew my mind.
And along his travels, he meets characters and gets involved with situations that are of interest to him…..and this latest story is exactly that…….First page…..
He’s just passing through Mother’s Rest because …well just because!!!But within minutes, he gets involved in something that gives him a reason to stay more than just one night in this small and obscure town.He meets Michelle Chang, a PI looking for her missing partner who disappeared in Mother’s Rest, after his last call to her.This town has secrets that just wet Reacher’s appetite.
How to account for my spouting pacificism and bemoaning our violent human nature and at the same time being enthralled with Reacher’s vigilante spirit and no qualms about killing people he finds deserve killing?
The formula takes a man who drifts around the country in “off-the-grid” mode, lets you get drawn with him into helping someone in trouble, in the process slowly uncovering a major criminal conspiracy from the smallest of clues, and then after some dangerous interludes finally ending with a massive showdown involving him going up against them almost single-handedly.
The trouble is, these feelings can wear off and if nothing interesting happens for a while your favourite spot can start to feel… well, a little dull.There is a mystery here and we know enough early on to know that’s there’s something very off about this town.
However, rather belatedly the story did pick up and the mystery surrounding the town turned out to be disturbing and not at all what I expected - and then Reacher does his stuff, as you know he will.It’s not the best book in the series but it’s not the worst either.

My first foray into the Jack Reacher series by Lee Child began with this novel.
The former FBI agent he meets there convinces him that putting his military policeman skills to work would be a worthwhile way to spend his time.Of course I’d heard about Jack Reacher for years, and knew he was high on the list of worthwhile crime avengers, but I’d never been tempted until hearing David Remnick’s interview with Child broadcast on The New Yorker Radio Hour podcast.
I do not have a good sense of what Jack Reacher looks like, except that he is large, and of the immovable variety of heavy.
This paragraph reads like a nonsense riddle and the next sentence states, “He got straight to the point.” This could have been meant as humor but just seemed stupid.Throughout the book Child uses repetition as a device to illuminate the story.
I guess if you need word count this device works as well as any.The biggest flaw is one that Child even points out.
In reading this scene, I had to laugh as six foot five Reacher shoots over the heads of everyone else to kill the three bad guys.
I didn't like him going all mushy for the chic, his sidekick, and analysing their constant lovemaking on a scale in his head - even though he gave better marks the more times they did it.
I couldn't wait to get my hands on the new Reacher book, I couldn't wait for his smarts and brain and brawling and bulldozing as he takes on a myriad of bad guys all on his own, because he feels so strongly about right and wrong.
I felt like I was reading an analytical observation report, which until only Reacher was doing it in the previous books was fun, but now became really bothersome and annoying.
Jack Reacher hooks up with a private investigator to locate a missing person.
Actually three missing people.
There are four missing people.
In the search, Reacher and the PI must venture into the Deep Web, the hidden part of the Internet where criminals and hackers abound.
The pacing will keep you on the edge of your seat.Characterwise, Reacher's role in this book is multidimensional.
He's a lover, and he's a fighter, but most of all he's a relentless investigator.I'm a long time Reacher fan, and, in my opinion, this tense, high-octane story is the best in the series.Highly recommended for fans of thrillers.
Not the best Reacher ... a truly horrible premise and too much of what seemed to me to be irrelevant material. Still, it had its moments.
Jack Reacher decided the stop along the train line called Mother’s Rest warranted a visit – for no other reason than he was curious as to how the town attained the name.
But the folk of the small town were not overly friendly; in fact their very natures raised Reacher’s antennae – there was something strange going on, he was sure of it.As their investigation deepened, Reacher and Chang found themselves on the long road to the city.
3.5*I have a slight suspicion that this book was written by someone other than Lee Child.
Or part of it anyway.For once, it wasn't mostly written in the staccato sentences usually used in the Reacher novels.
Maybe he needed some fillers to reach the required minimum amount of pages.Another difference was that Reacher substituted his old clothes for new ones only once in the whole book!
Usually we get treated to the numerous times he has to buy new clothes, how many days he had worn them without changing *mental note: ewww*, and how he stashes the old clothing in a trashcan nearby.
I eagerly await a new Jack Reacher novel each other.
Frankly, I think it went a step too far.
And it made me think it's getting a little tired.
The stories are starting to get interchangeable.
I didn't think they really had any chemistry and the relationship seemed rather forced.
The other quibble I have, and it may be just a product of my own cynical mind, but it seemed more like a screenplay than a novel.
Is Child starting to write with the movie in mind?

Make Me (Jack Reacher, #20), Lee Child
One of the better Jack Reacher books. Good way to end the series. If this is indeed the last book of the series.
Beginning somewhere around book fifteen in the series, it appeared to me that Lee Child had not just run out of ideas but that he was probably getting bored.
This book has all the traditional elements of a classic Reacher story but the writing is tired and uninspired as if the author were trying to make a dead-line and didn't have time to think it through.
Then there's the whole story-line itself...a town so far out in no where that they don't even have a cell-phone tower, luring desperate people through chat rooms to gruesome ends.
Reacher at his best. Suspense on every page, and I think Michelle Chang might be my favorite Reacher sidekick yet.
In the same spirit, I think part of this book benefits from a content warning, but since it comes up about 80% in, I will put it under a spoiler tag for you to read if mental illness is of interest or concern.
(view spoiler)[This book deals with themes of suicide, which are presented in a multipage excerpt from an invented suicide website in terms of detailed methods and logistics and plans to partner with others to carry out the deed.
If suicidal ideation is an issue for you, read any other Reacher book--the rest are all violent, but in a cartoonish, action-movie way.
I do love Jack Reacher.
Make Me is the 20th in Lee Child's Jack Reacher series and a good one.
I really enjoy reading about Reacher's relationship with women.
The series always has strong female partners.
Jack Reacher respects women for their intelligence among others attributes.Make Me is a can't put it down book.
Like the others in the series, the dialog is easy to read and the action is plentiful.
There is a different twist to this book involving the internet and the deep and dark web.
A little bit far reached, but lots of fun.This book is exactly what it is suppose to be.
Chock full of gun porn.The dialogue/prose only bogs down once or twice, and you can just skim those parts without missing anything substantial.In the middle of the book, there is one wonderfully presented scene where Reacher and Hackett face off.
And the climax at the end is pretty good.Overall, I think Child has improved a great deal since book #1.-Tons of guns in this one, perhaps more than usual.
Any insurance industry worth it's salt would bleed them dry)Moynahans' guns, Smith & Wesson Sigma .40Full size imageHackett's old Ruger P85 with suppressor (silencer)Full size image The face-off scene with Hackett really is brilliant.
In my opinion Lee Child's Jack Reacher books are hit or miss.
A small town called Mother's Rest.
"No particular place to go, and all the time in the world to get there".
But Mother's Rest is not your typical small town.
There is something about Chang and Reacher has no place in particular to go and all the time in the world so he teams up with her.
But in the very end when they have peeled away the final layer the secret of Mother's Rest is truly horrific.
Solid Reacher.Small town, lone woman, bad guys, ass kicking, ridiculous plot, jet travel round the USA, and Jack kills all the bad guys at the end.The franchise moves on.
It’s a strange place with watchful people, and a worried woman named Michelle Chang, who mistakes Reacher for someone else: her missing partner in a private investigation she thinks must have turned lethal.”Former FBi Special Agent turned Private Investigator, Michelle Chang, and Jack Reacher meet by chance at a train station in a small town called Mother’s Rest, an agricultural hub.
He wants to know why the town is called Mother’s Rest.
His last known location is the small town, Mother’s Rest, and he’s disappeared.
