https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74731.The_Stupidest_Angel
What is not to love about a book that has a pot smoking law official married to a crazy woman who runs around naked with a broad sword, brain sucking zombies lead by Santa who want to go shopping at IKEA, incompetent arc angel who likes snickers, and a talking fruit bat? I found the story to be very entertaining with several laugh out loud points (I listened to it on tape). I’d recommend this book to anyone who can just let go of reality and enjoy a tale.
Kitchen sink wackiness and a troop of tropes parade through a book not half as hilarious as I had hoped it would be.
A celestial visitor scares the bejesus out of the local constable, who has got his hands full sorting out a town's-worth of mischief and mayhem.
Do all of Christopher Moore's books include angels and an undercurrent of Christianity?
In fact, neither of his books lived up to the hype I had built up after reading the reviews.
All in all, there were a few insightful satirical jabs, but not enough to make me feel it was worth the read.
This is another Christopher Moore book I have enjoyed reading, and they have all been hilarious.Very funny and it had that Christopher Moore kookiness, even some returns of fun characters. If you like zombies, you may like this.But this is not one that I would recommend to begin reading his works. If you have never read any of his books try Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal or A Dirty Job first.Still pretty good.
The Stupidest Angel: A Heartwarming Tale of Christmas Terror was my first Christopher Moore novel.
This novel is not the type of book I normally read.
However I got bored with this book pretty quickly.
The humour in this book is very "in your face" type humour.
I didn't like the second half of the book as it just got too far-fetched and stupid.
I don't think this sort of book is for everyone and I'm not sure that I'll ever read another book by Christopher Moore.
He's the type of author I would get bored of very easily.
Con la advertencia más divertida que hay al iniciar la historia nos adentramos a la historia de un pequeño pueblo afectado por las estupidez de un ángel...que no es la primera vez que se equivoca "No era su primera misión de natividad. No, de hecho, había sido el encargado de la primera de todas, pero como se había entretenido echando una partida de pinacle, llego con un retraso de 10 años y había anunciado al propio hijo prepubescente que encontraría un bebé envuelto en mantillas en un pesebre"
A pesar de la historia no es nada del otro mundo, en ningún momento aburre dado que se desarrolla en un 70% humor y 30% en acción holliwodense, y no hay más que eso, los personajes están poco profundizados y el pueblo no es excesivamente descrito, de hecho estos aspectos están tan presentes que me atrevo a decir que este es un libro únicamente para una tarde lluviosa en la que no haya nada que hacer porque a pesar de que no es un libro del tipo profundo pero es tremendamente entretenido.
There's nothing more to say here really. I'm throwing in the towel. I am on disc 3 and have been so completely zoned out I feel like I may have to go all the way back to the beginning. I don't know if I'm just distracted, completely humorless or falling into another slump but this book could not entertain me and I have far too many others sitting here to force it upon myself. The angel is indeed stupid as promised but so are most of the other characters (and there are MANY of them) and it's all
I'm throwing in the towel.
I am on disc 3 and have been so completely zoned out I feel like I may have to go all the way back to the beginning.
I don't know if I'm just distracted, completely humorless or falling into another slump but this book could not entertain me and I have far too many others sitting here to force it upon myself.
The angel is indeed stupid as promised but so are most of the other characters (and there are MANY of them) and it's all a little too wacky/zany for my current pissy mood.
And if you think Christmas tales are rather lame, peruse this single paragraph at the beginning of the novel.In another Christmas story, Dale Pearson, evil developer, self-absorbed woman hater, and seemingly unredeemable curmudgeon, might be visited in the night by a series of ghosts who, by showing him bleak visions of Christmas future, past, and present, would bring about in him a change to generosity, kindness, and a general warmth toward his fellow man.
Fruitbat from Island of the Sequined Love Nun but you do not need to have read any of Moore's other novels to enjoy this one.
Its utterly rediculous, but its also laugh out loud FUNNY.
Im listening on audio book and I've never enjoyed doing laundry more.
Its totally odd ball, irreverent, immature, deviously clever and just plain silly, as are most of Moore's books.
It doesn't matter if you find the story "believeable" its TOO FUNNY for me to care.
C'mon, washed-up female-battle-warrior cult movie star whos totally nuts (in a friendly crazy neighbor sort of way) married to pot smoking sherrif.
Kinda throws believable out the window before you even start the book.
I've been laughing for the last 3 hours straight.
Its silly, go with it.
3  stars: It starts weak, you know that snarky humour that can wear thin real fast? Then he switches to crude. Crude done well can be hilarious and Moore’s a master. It’s a bizarre story packed with quirky characters, an action packed little page turner. Throw in a cemetery full of gossipy dead people, a murder, an archangel on a mission, zombies and a fruit bat. It’s even got a few decent though admittedly twisted love interests. My favorite the pot addicted cop and his warrior babe wife (a lov
3 ½ stars: It starts weak, you know that snarky humour that can wear thin real fast?
Then he switches to crude.
Crude done well can be hilarious and Moore’s a master.
It’s a bizarre story packed with quirky characters, an action packed little page turner.
Throw in a cemetery full of gossipy dead people, a murder, an archangel on a mission, zombies and a fruit bat.
It’s even got a few decent though admittedly twisted love interests.
A fast, fun read.
"No one knows why, but second only to eating the brains of the living, the dead love affordable prefab furniture.
3.5 stars.This really had some potential, and some of the stuff was downright hilarious. But it did seem to run a bit long at times. Still, Christopher Moore is a funny dude and I'll read more of his stuff.Plus, the audio was dead-on. The narrator, Tony Roberts, had a great voice for narration and nailed the characters. His delivery of Moore's punchlines was spot on too.
Santa?Murdered?WTF!! This book had me rooting for the poor dippy angel trying to help the poor boy.I almost dropped this book into the bathtub from laughing so hard.IT's that cute.
I don't think a book has made me laugh this much since Good Omens The Nice and Accurate Prophecies of Agnes Nutter, Witch.
I love the humor of Connie Willis and I am amused by the Thursday Next series by Jasper Fforde.
I've had quite a few laugh-out-loud moments reading Jim Butcher's Dresden Files series.
Personally, I just didn't find The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy or the first book in the Discworld series, The Color of Magic, funny at all, but a lot of people I know love these books.
My favorite Christmas read. Just so off, it's funny. My third year to love this odd story.
I generally enjoy Moore's comedies but this one's just too silly.Raziel, God's stupidest angel has been sent to earth to grant a Christmas miracle to a lucky child.
Raziel seeks to rectify the matter by raising Santa--and every other corpse in the graveyard--from the dead on Christmas Eve. Chaos ensues, said zombies ultimately subdued--hacked back to death--by retired B-movie actress Molly, reprising her signature role of Kendra, Warrior Babe of the Outland complete with sword.
If that doesn't put you in the Christmas spirit, you're just not ready for the holidays.
I would watch it every holiday season, assuming they didn't fuck it up).I honestly don't want to say more about the plot, because it's probably funnier if you don't know what is coming, but I will leave this quote, which comes from the end of Chapter One, to give you an idea of the tone of the book.In another Christmas story, Dale Pearson, evil developer, self-absorbed woman hater, and seemingly unredeemable curmudgeon, might be visited in the night by a series of ghosts who, by showing him bleak visions of Christmas future, past, and present, would bring about in him a change to generosity, kindness, and a general warmth toward his fellow man.
Three frequently repeated reactions while reading this book:Arghh!! How lame/ irritating/ silly!!Arghh!! Stop swearing you *******!!Arghh!! This is not funny, its STUPID!!The Stupidest angel was a stupid book, with stupid angels, and other stupid and irritating characters and stupid jokes which gave me a headache and were not funny, and I am not stupid enough to read it anymore. I GIVE UP!!
Heartwarming? (meant ironically) A stupid angel is supposed to give a child his Christmas wish. The 7 year old child sees "Santa" getting hit with a shovel and wishes that Santa was still alive. Santa comes back to life with a group of his dead friends as zombies. This book had a couple of very funny scenes but in my opinion was definitely not worth the time.
A dimwitted and incompetent angel loses a bet and picks a town full of zany characters in which to fulfill it. Hijinks and frantic hilarity ensue. I found it entertaining enough to occupy my mind while running errands. Audiobook version via Audible. Good performance by Tony Roberts.
The Stupidest Angel really is one crazy, twisted book! This is the warning from author Christopher Moore just prior to the first chapter.....so take heed: "If you're buying this book as a gift for your grandma or a kid, you should be aware that it contains cusswords as well as tasteful depictions of cannibalism and people in their forties having sex. Don't blame me. I told you." Anyway, I did have a few laughs resulting from the freakish conversations between the undead in the graveyard, and did
The Stupidest Angel really is one crazy, twisted book!
This is the warning from author Christopher Moore just prior to the first chapter.....so take heed:
"If you're buying this book as a gift for your grandma or a kid, you should be aware that it contains cusswords as well as tasteful depictions of cannibalism and people in their forties having sex.
Don't blame me.
Anyway, I did have a few laughs resulting from the freakish conversations between the undead in the graveyard, and did like Theo, the incompetent pot-smoking resident lawman as well as the bizarre church scene with the zombies, but it is unlikely this book will become a Christmas tradition for me.
If you're sick of all the sentimental Christmas stories and looking for something a little different and have a twisted sense of humor. This is the book for you. My favorite scenes were when the dead people would talk to each other in the cemetery. I also liked how a lot of characters were very crochety and not shy about cussing. Christopher Moore is the greatest at twisted, dark humor :)
This book was just....terrible.
I'm sorry, I never, ever say that about books, but this one I just have to.
This is the second book I have read by Christopher Moore.
This is the second book I have disliked by Christopher Moore.
His books are just too out there for me.
I guess I just don't like my Christmas mixed with zombies and pot and ridiculous dead-end relationships in small, hickville towns.
The only reason I read this entire book was the humor.
It did make me laugh.
It was completely ridiculous and stupid (the word is even in the title!)...but I laughed.
Christopher Moore's The Stupidest Angel: A Heartwarming Tale of Christmas Terror is another audiobook to entertain, even at 5 A.M. on the commute into the city.
The Stupidest Angel is no exception.The book is set in Pine Cove, Calif., where the Archangel Raziel is set upon Earth to grant a Christmas wish to one child.
Unfortunately, Josh has no idea what is in store when he asks the angel to bring Santa Claus back to life.With characters like a Warrior babe named Molly, a pot-smoking constable--her husband, a DEA helicopter pilot, and a evil developer, among others, there was nothing to do but sit back and laugh at the follies, misunderstandings, and interactions between these characters.
This was a completely different type of read for me. It was different, funny, and very odd. I went with where the author took me and tried to think of it as realistic at all. It was a nice change of pace concerning holiday reading. Zombies, drunk santas, and warrior women? Sign me up!
This was Raziel's first Christmas miracle. He'd been passed over for the task for two thousand years, but finally his turn had come up. Well, actually, the Archangel Michael's turn had come up, and Raziel ended up getting the job by losing in a card game. Michael had bet the planet Venus against his assigned task of performing the Christmas miracle this year. Venus! Although he wasn't really sure what he would have done with Venus had he won it, Raziel knew he needed the second planet, if for n
Michael had bet the planet Venus against his assigned task of performing the Christmas miracle this year.
Having read, and surprising myself by enjoying, Christopher Moore's Lamb some years ago, I was drawn to pick up The Stupidest Angel; which happens to also feature the titular Raziel.
This Dale Pearson – who seems to have had it coming – happened to have been returning from a Christmas party at the Caribou Lodge when he took the blade of a shovel to the throat, and because Dale was wearing a Santa suit at the time, a seven year old boy who saw everything believed he had just witnessed the death of Santa Claus.
Subtitled A Heartwarming Tale of Christmas Terror, this book doesn't stint on the seasonally heartwarming.
Behold, your Christmas wish has been granted...Not what I would have wished for..."By the time Raziel, the common sense challenged angel of the title, makes this proclamation, a bizarre cautionary tale has spun out.
(hide spoiler)]A subplot of the book alludes to one of my favorite Christmas classics, The Gift of the Magi.
Even Raziel the angel made an appearance in Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal. While it's fun seeing all these characters thrown together if you've read about them before, it's not at all necessary to know anything about them going in.Lastly, one small warning.
It's Christmas in Pine Cove, California - just one of your typical little coastal towns that depends on the annual event for an influx of tourist dollars - but has a whole cast of zany characters starting with the town's only cop Theo Crowe (who has moved past his hippie days to become one of California's finest)and his girlfriend Molly Michon who used to be the "Warrior Babe" in some B ranked movies.
It was like seeing the trailer for a movie and laughing so much and then going to the show and realizing that the trailer had all the funny bits.I did like the scene with Molly in the Pine Cove Bait and Tackle and Fine Wine shop.
(And I know all the words to Good King Wenceslaus.) There were some funny bits, sure, but it just did not live up to my expectations.
(The angel Raziel was from Lamb and I did like Lamb.) I have not read the other Pine Cove books.I think the humor was maybe a bit too vulgar for me.
The best characters were the dog, the bat, & the psycho warrior princess, not necessarily in that order...Yeah, it was kind of weird, but very well read.
I'm not sure, but I might have liked this more if I'd read the other 2 books in the Pine Cove series.
This is only the second book of his I've read, the other being A Dirty Job, & I believe I liked it a bit more.
In all fairness to the author, I don't seem to have the proper sense of humor for 'humorous' books.
Es una tontería pero me he reído un montón. Uno de esos libros que no aportan nada, simplemente para pasar un buen rato. Si queréis ver mi reseña más detallada:https://viajesdeunabibliofila.blogspo...
Nothing here worked for me, not the characters or the plot, I got bored pretty quickly. One of those book where the description outperforms the book itself. Low level repetitive humor, and not heartwarming. Overall, definitely not worth the time. 1 star.
