https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28954189-scythe
All it means is that the "good" scythes will choose quick, painless deaths, and the "bad" scythes will cause as much pain and fear as possible.Similarly, it seemed like a silly, contrived move to have the scythes declare that whoever happened to win between Citra and Rowan would have to kill the other.
Everything bad and angsty that happened felt unnaturally thrown in to shake things up - pointless rules left unaddressed, and the Scythe Council being deliberately stupid - when really this society didn't seem that bad.
My brain was running wild throughout the entire story.The world and the plot of Scythe are my absolute favorite parts of the book.
I’ve seen many reviews claiming the story is boring, and while I can somewhat agree that the pacing is slower in the beginning, I was on the edge of my seat the entire time while reading.
Every time I accepted the story was going in one direction, it would take a complete 180 which made for an exhilarating read.
I think they have a great dynamic, though I feel their romance was one of the weakest parts of the book.
1. Over the years, I've heard many books touted as the successor to Hunger Games, but SCYTHE is the first one that I would really, truly stand behind, as it offers teens a complementary reading experience to that series rather than a duplicate one.
Like Hunger Games, SCYTHE invites readers to both turn pages quickly but also furrow their brows over the ethical questions it asks.
SCYTHE strikes me as a true teen novel, one that I will happily thrust into the hands of even reluctant 12-14 year old readers to show them what awaits them in genre fiction.
This is just my humble opinion but the thing about death and the ultimate cosmic meaninglessness of man is that at least, you can wallow in your insignificance and bask in your existential dread as opposed to the alternative - which this book presents - and it's the attendant pain that brings in a culture so obsessed with fame and being important and doing absolutely NOTHING because in their expansive existence, every single human being’s lifetime seems like a single second and honestly why can't they all just die in peace??In this reality, a select few curse themselves to a future of being Scythes - a bunch of folks that are legally authorized to kill people due to the over-population and these people are chosen based on some sort of weird bermuda triangle of logic work, also known as math.
SCYTHEI freaking love this book!Citra and Rowen are two teenagers who get the pleasantry of meeting the honorable Scythe Faraday.
There are some evil scythes in the book that enjoy the killing and this goes against their creed but everything works out at some point.
Citra and Rowen are just awesome and Honorable Scythe Faraday is awesome too.
Some things happen and Citra and Rowen get separated and are training under different scythes.
There is a lot more going on in the book and reasons for this that and the other but you can read all of that for yourself.
They are thrown into a world of corruption and deadly secrets.What I like the most about this book turns out to be its biggest flaw at the same time: the pacing.
At this stage, the feelings they have for each other seem almost staged, because neither character was given enough time and room to really let their personality shine.Furthermore, I think the Scythedome aka the society of Scythes would have needed a little tweaking.
Why is everybody still so very straight?Okay, I know I talked a lot about this book's flaws and it may seem that I did not actually enjoy it but, on the contrary, I really liked it.
This intricate story that beautifully analyses our society, where in this plot-line our current world has passed and the population is just reminiscing on, whilst living in a state of utopia.
But we follow these characters on a journey that questions their values, morality and their society and I LOVE when an author can subtly inject that into a story.The world-building is pretty much perfect.
It was pretty much mesmerising and told in the form of a narrative (coupled with some insightful journal entries), which created this illusion almost where I believed that the world actually existed.
This turned out to be a fascinating book that made me think much more deeply about death, but more importantly, about modern life and how the challenges we face in it are what make it worth living.
Neal creates a truly original utopian world that looks great on the surface, but has a pretty nasty underbelly (like all realistic utopias.) The politics in the world of Scythes is intricate and realistic and well done.
Though there were a few plot devices I wasn't quite sure about at first, they all smoothed out in the end to make for a book that's fast-paced, but also deeply thoughtful.
Spontaneous reread in anticipation of Thunderhead :) the thought process went a little like this - Me: I should focus on my planned reads for this month and not get behind when we’re only 3 days into the new year!Insidious inner voices: ssssssssssscythe!!!Me: you make some really good points—————————————————Scythe defies all YA tropes and is incredibly quotable. What more can you ask for?Exhibit A:  "I think all young women are cursed with a streak of unrelenting foolishness, and all young men a
The story takes place in a world beyond natural death, where disease and aging is eradicated and accidental death can be reversed in a hospital.
The concept of a B seat, where one had to sit between two other airplane passengers, had been eliminated along with other unpleasant things, like disease and government.
The action kicks in when two teenagers, Rowan and Citra, are chosen to become Scythe apprentices.
If, at this point, you're thinking, "Oh of course, I know this story type.
My Citra:My Rowan: All I can say is: Read it!
This book was a very pleasant surprise!
Since the YA library of fiction has become saturated with dystopian tales, it is often hard to find originality.
Because of that, the stories quickly become boring because we have "been there, done that".
That is not the case here!Key pros:- Unique story, well presented- Great characters- Action and suspense- Little (if any) filler- Left me wanting moreKey con:- St. Louis is not the capital of MissouriIf you are a fan of YA - especially YA dystopian fiction - you owe it to yourself to check this out.
I am 99.9% sure you will love this, too.
The development into this world and the choices made by it’s characters is absolutely inspired.Without the threat of suffering, we can’t experience true joy.Our main players in this read are Citra and Rowan – both young, vibrant and ballsy teens who are chosen by Scythe Faraday to apprentice to be Scythes.
Scythe asks difficult questions and doesn’t spoon feed the reader the answers, but rather allows the reader to meditate on the moral dilemmas presented on their own.Death makes the whole world kin.In the end, I have been completely taken by this book.
4.75⭐This month has been nothing short of ‘surprise the shit outa’ Nani, month’ and I’m here here for it! Please, keep ‘em coming. The good ones that is; I don’t want to leave anything to chance. People, this was cray!!! And to think I looked down my nose at it for over a year. I could be such a pea-brain sometimes. What I absolutely loved above all was the world. The utterly believable, meticulously woven, intricately fleshed out world that left nothing to chance. What a sobering and terrifying
Death, I’m afraid, is just an inevitable consequence of life and conquering it.
Anyhow, I also loved the characters, more so the side cast than the leads, if I’m being honest.
But out of Rowan and Citra, the two MCs, I thought Rowan’s (shaky) journey was one of the best parts of the novel.
I liked her just fine; she had a sense of justice but she was your everyday YA heroine - a sharp-witted, strong-minded impulsive heroine, which - kudos and all but in comparison to Rowan and his character growth, her storyline pales almost in all aspects.

The ratings are insane. Is it THAT good?
I NEED A ROBE LIKE THAT.+ I really liked both Citra and Rowan!The story is split between them and as they're apprenticed to Scythe Faraday (although reluctantly) and they're both kind of winning.
(And honestly if you're into books with very very very little romance: This is for you.)ALSO THE BOOK IS VERY MEAN TO ROWAN AND MY POOR HEART.❤️💔+ It is kind of long though?!I felt it was a teeny tiny bit rambly, and it took me a while to get invested because there wasn't much plot but Citra and Rowan training to be scythes.
It wasn't the world's most "perfect" read for me, and I'm a little disappointed I didn't love it 100%.
You might as well read the synopsis and mark the book as “read”.So, it is a story about a utopian community where people have conquered hunger, disease, war, misery and even death.
Basically, the whole book – 435 pages – is about their apprenticeship and a controversial love story.The Shythes are divided into two categories.
To feel their unlimited power and to enjoy the act of killing other people, because they just could, without any impact.What about the romance?
Sorry, but it is not enough for me when it comes to romance.One of the reasons I picked this book up was the expectation of some really awesome plot twists.
Audible Daily Deal Sale until 28Jan18 $3.95 This was one of my favorite reads of 2016. Reread with some BB&Bers What if you could kill people and be Death himself.What if cancer and all the worlds diseases were healed and our understanding of how to heal everybody was so great that you could pretty much save anyone from practically anything that would have killed them. What if you could totally turn back the clock so that even though you are fifty-two or seventy-five you could look like you
Could it be in this society where a fraction of the people die compared to the Age of Mortality that there are things going on in the politics of death that might lead to disaster???As the story delves into the deeper politics of death and how the world might be changing I liked seeing how a few of the different Scythes treated the responsibility of killing and how each seemed to have a different process and a different way to deal with families and after affects.
Before anyone bites my head off, let me just explain everything I disliked about the book.
I thought the human race had moved on from this.
*Lets out a breath she perfectly knew she had been holding*If it wasn’t for the hype, I would have DNFed it right after reading that sentence.
You just can’t expect anything good to come out of a book that has the holding breath sentence, that’s just not possible.
The romance in this book felt extremely forced, insta-lovey and just weird at times.
If you’ve enjoyed this book, please let me know in the comments what aspects of it you liked.
Wow. Mind totally blown by this one.In a future world, mortality, war, illness, hunger have all been eradicated. Injuries are quickly healed by the body's own (amped-up) healing properties. Even aging is something you can counter—when you're tired of being your age, you can "turn" yourself into someone younger—over and over and over again.The only way to control the population is through gleaning—killings of seemingly random people—and they are carried out by scythes, individuals commanded to c
Who would seek out such a life?As Citra and Rowan learn from Scythe Faraday, they realize the nobility of the role, the conflicted emotions with which many scythes approach their responsibilities, and the physical, mental, and intellectual skills needed to become a good scythe.
It is Goddard who sets a challenge in motion: whichever apprentice is chosen to become a full-fledged scythe will automatically be expected to glean the other.This is an utterly fascinating, thought-provoking, exceptionally written book that I could not get enough of.
Scythe is a compelling meditation on a world without mortality, and how those tasked with culling the population live their lives and approach those they choose to glean.
3.5It seems to be a thing for me. I love the ideas of Neal Shusterman but I'm never sure I end up loving the books. I'm not sure I will continue the series but if the premise intrigues you, give it a shot!
This book could very easily be a standalone so i'm very curious to see where the next book will go!
you can read this review and more on my blog! Scythe was insane.  I don’t think I’ve ever read something so dark and brutal and strangely addictive (that may just be because I don’t read horror). So if you’re like me and not a fan of horror movies/books, rest assured that this is definitely on the milder side.That doesn’t mean it won’t be great for fans of the genre; it definitely has the entice and thrill.I’ve been at a weird position practically since the start of 2018 where dystopians are so
I also feel like every reader will see this world unfold in a different way because of the way details are given; it’s entirely up to you, as the reader, to make this world what it is.Scythe travels to a futuristic world where humans have completely eliminated mortality – one can live for thousands upon thousands of years.
I was hooked from the first pages and didn’t want to let go of the world of terrible… and worse.In this book, we follow the lives of two scythe apprentices, Citra and Rowan, training under Scythe Faraday (spoiler – I love him).
it’s like this series was made for me, knowing what I wanted and what will make me scream in suspense.Lastly; THE GLEANING JOURNALS.

Yes, I would like to block and report myself for sleeping on this book for so long.I am so mad at myself for not reading this book earlier.
Learn from my mistake because I was hit with instant regret the second I picked this up.The world of Scythe is one of the most incredible, thought-provoking, and fascinating worlds I've ever read in a YA novel before.
Even though both Rowan and Citra meet Scythe Faraday on two separate occurrences, their fate becomes intwined when they begin their apprenticeship and only one will be ordained as a scythe.
However, this book had some of the best plot twists I've read in a long time.
Scythe takes place in a synthetic, dystopian world where technological advancements have allowed them to overcome death.
So these dudes, scythes, have it in their job description to ‘glean’ random people of their choosing in order to keep the world running properly.
Thing is, scythes can’t enjoy gleaning, so theyre chosen carefully or else this dystopian world would be run by psychopaths.
Anyways, I don’t wanna reveal too much of the plot but like THIS BOOK IS REALLY GOOD.
The world and plot building is incredible, so detailed and real.
And the quotes are so damn thought provoking, yikes, I can’t wait for the second book.
basically, i just thought this book ended up being super bland?
if you look at this book, i mean really look at it, you will see two main characters who idk about you but i have seen in so many other books (there’s nothing new about them ok) and a world where everything seems all great and awesome, but oops hold on it’s actually super corrupt.
the sad part is that there’s not actually anything necessarily WRONG with the book (except maybe the romance bc wtf was that why is it so hard to keep things platonic i swear) and therefore nothing for me to make a video for or rant about.
3.5/5  "Thou shalt kill."  Okay, so YA isn't my normal genre of choice for a number of reasons, the genre itself is pretty bland and most books are samey same but this book was extremely different to the normal stereotypical YA read, it would also have to be one of my favourite YA books to date, it's up there next to Illuminae. For a book about death and morbid shit I expected a lot more death, and wished the author didn't hold back while delivering the goods like there wasn't enough blood and t
It's funny because I actually hated the start, I'm not a fan of my Main characters being high school students, don't get me wrong i don't dislike teenagers.
I'll admit I really enjoyed Rowans development at the end and think he is now a cool character but Citra stayed flat for me like I HATE HER.
The Grandma of Death!”“Grande Dame, not grandma.”I also didn't enjoy the insta-love, seriously it came out of no where and had no build up, so it made me want to internationally scream and headbutt something, this book in my opinion would have been better if there was no romance and the two MC's hated each other.
WHOAH! Dieses Buch hatte mit Abstand eines der besten Plottwists ever! 😱 Ich habe selten so ein kreatives Fantasybuch gelesen, weswegen ich mich jetzt umso mehr auf Band 2 freue. Neil Shusterman hat es geschafft eine geheimnisvolle aber so fasznierte Welt zu schreiben, die einen einfach nur umhaut! Lest es bitte alle, denm es war GENIAL! Zählt vermutlich jetzt schon zu meinen absoluten Jahreshighlights 😍👀
Was not expecting this to be as good as it was. Can't wait to read the next book.
This biznitch is going on my favorites shelf and is one of the best books I read this year. Oh yes. All the stars! In a utopian world of the future, the  Thunderhead  is the artificial intelligence that governs all. It contains all the memories and history of humankind. It knows exactly how to funnel resources and where to send them so there is no hunger. There is no war. There is no sickness. There is no death. People have nanites injected to speed up healing and functionality of the body. They
This biznitch is going on my favorites shelf and is one of the best books I read this year.
The scythes are chosen carefully and tasked with gleaning to balance the population, since everyone is more or less immortal.
Different scythes choose different methods of gleaning.
It’s not often these days I feel like something happens that was shocking or unexpected.
- The two MCs are actually pretty awesome.
- The pacing was amazing.- The book is like 500 pages or close to it, yet it's so easy and quick to read.- There is really no romance in this.
