https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1031461.Stone_Soup
As a child I enjoyed many different versions of the story, but the drawings in this edition were always particularly enjoyable for me.
This book has reminded me how important it is to always remain optimistic, and it has great drawings that still make me smile.
If you have children, or enjoy storybooks this would be a nice addition to your collection.
I especially enjoy the illustrations because they are somewhat gothic.
First read: who knows. 1984?This was one of my favorite books as a kid. I always wanted a copy but never had one, and then the other day I realized I was an adult with a credit card and I could remedy the situation. Turns out I still love this book!
Another book from my childhood that I introduced to my kids. Such a fun way to spend some time thinking about food and togetherness.
I have heard numerous things about this amazing book called Stone Soup.
It is supposedly about sharing and a great book for children.
Let me save you the trouble, this is not that book!
There are two books titled Stone Soup, and this one literally doesn't make any sense at all.
I still don't understand what the point of this book was.
A boy wanted some soup from this old lady and she continually told him no.
He gave her this stone, and told her to boil it.
I wouldn't use this book in my classroom because I don't understand it myself.
Text- to Self Connection I read Stone Soup for the first time by Ann McGovern.
I have always heard of this story but never read it I like this book because I can relate to it.
While, growing up as a child my grandmother and father always cooked soups.
We had soup of all kind the most famous on was beef soup as in the story.
I add just as many vegetables as the ones in the story.
As an educator in the classroom, I would do a chart with pictures of vegetables to see what the students like in their soup.
Children who read this story will find the tale funny and clever while they read about the young man tricking the woman.
An old woman lives in the simple cottage and does not offer the young man some food, this represents the characters in the story.
This would fit the traditional element of the characters, because they are identified easily as the hero being the young man and the rival being the old woman.
There is an Eastern European version of the story that uses an axe instead a stone to make the soup.
Stone soup is a very fun story about a young man who tricks an old woman in order to get some food.
The man convinces the woman that he can make soup from a stone!
However, after every step of the soup making process he seems to need some sort of other ingredient to achieve the final product.
After adding the final ingredients the man gets what he wanted all along, something to eat and a place to eat it.
Overall, this was a great story for any age and really captured the reader in to see if the young man could really trick the old woman.
1. Awards: N/A2. Grade Level: Pre K - 23. Summary: This folktale tells the story an old lady who gets tricked into making soup for a hungry boy from a stone. Fancy that! 4. Review: The illustration on this book seem a bit outdated for students today but this is a classic story. I remember reading this as a kid and always getting so frustrated the old lady was getting tricked.5. In Class Uses: Here are two links for cute activity pages for students to practice retelling stories and sequencing https://www.teacherspayteachers.com/P...https://www.teacherspayteachers.com/P...
In this book, a women is trying to make some soup but doesn't have any of the ingredients she needs.
In order to get people to help her, she talks up how great the soup is.
She asks for them to donate something to the soup for in return they can enjoy it with her.
Throughout the whole book, she acquires all she needs for the soup, and makes it for all to share.
I think that this book really shows how each person has their own uniqueness.
And how without the help of other we would just be this piece, and we need the whole part.
The is a great story I can remember my teacher reading my when I was in grade school. In this story, a hungry boy goes to an old lady's house to ask for some food. When the old lady turns him away he asks for a stone to make soup with. The old lady says you can't make soup from a stone. The boy asks to come in to show the old lady and then tricks her into adding other ingredients into the soup. A fun story with great illustrations to go with.
A traditional title with many different versions, this book is a favorite in our home. In this version, a young many visits an old woman who refuses him food. When he offers to make stone soup, she is intrigued. He cunningly cons her into offering her own ingredients to make a wonderful soup. There are many versions of this story in print, so this could also make for a good comparison unit. Another good story with a good moral.
I feel this book is better suited for older children as the main character is trying to outsmart a witch. this can be a scary theme for young children. It does teach imagination principals though. It also can be a good way to explain introducing new foods in the sense that if you are eating a soup most times you wouldn't know if there was a new ingredient or not. I like this book, and my 9 yr old does too, but my 6 year old was more focused on how he would escape the witch.
This book is about a man who tricks an old lady into helping him make soup for his hungry belly. He starts with a stone but then says the soup would be better with... and then he says an actual food. So the old lady goes and gets the food from her garden until there is no more and the soup is all cooked.
This book is about a young man on a journey and he becomes hungry. He stops at a house to ask for food and an old lady says she has non. He ens up making soup starting out with just a stone. I rated this book 5/5 because it teaches a lesson of not being greedy.
I love this book! It is so clever! The illustration is so eye appealing and really brings the reader into the story.
This was the first book I ever read by myself. I think I was four.
Ditto
Totally not the version of the story I was expecting. Somewhere out there is a kindhearted variant.
So clever!
This book shows the virtue of team work. Which would be a great book to have when looking at qualities of leaders and communities
This was another favorite of mine from my childhood. The story of Stone Soup has many different versions but this is my favorite. A hungry young man thinks hes tricking an old woman into making him food by telling her that she can make soup with just a stone. I think this provides a great lessons to students about being kind and watching what you say.
Great book to teach about sharing.
This is most definitely one of my favorite books. There is an underlying humor aspect that I think may or may not be understood by the whole class.
This is a book from my childhood and I love the pictures and the story
One of favorite shocker ending stories for young ones.
This is a story I have never heard before. It was unique because this young man is hungry but he meets an old lady. He begins making a soup with a large stone. This soup benefits them both.
Traditional Literature -A fun twist on a classic story. I liked the cleverness in tricking the woman to feed him dinner and the ending that leaves the reader wondering who will he go to next.
The element of repetition in the story which could help early readers during guided/independent reading times as the old woman states quite often "Soup from a stone, Fancy That!" The illustrations in this book also coincide very well with the text and can help young readers find meaning to less common vocabulary words used in this story such as "cabbage" or "barley."Discussion Questions:1) What do you think the soup would have tasted like if the old woman had not added vegetables and other ingredients?2) Do you think it is fair that the young boy tricked the old woman into using other ingredients in the soup?
This book is so funny and unique! I really liked this book since it was very creative.
“Stone Soup” by Ann McGovern, Pictures by Winslow Pinney Pels (4 Stars) Book Summary #4Summary: “Stone Soup” by Ann McGovern is a clever story about a young man that is tired and hungry from walking all day and all night, who comes across a house that he believes will “have plenty of food for [him] in [there].” Inside the house is a little old lady who quickly tells the young man that she does not have any food, but instead of going to the next house, the young man asks for a stone.
Both of these ideas can be seen through the young man solving his hunger by making soup out of a stone, not only for himself, but for the little old lady as well.
