https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91249.Ramona_Forever
The seventh book in the Ramona Quimby series, it continues the story of Ramona, her older sister, Beezus, and their family.
در توضیح ناشر آمده است: «از وقتی ماجرای آمدن عموی عجیب ‌و غریب و پولدار دوست رامونا پیش آمده، رخدادهای عجیب ‌و غریب هم رخ می‌دهد.
او عاشق این است، که مورد توجه واقع شود، و دختر بچه‌ ی کنجکاوی ست، و گاهی دستپاچه می‌شود، و خرابکاری می‌کند.
«بورلی کلی‌ یری» کتاب‌‌های بسیاری با نگرش روان‌شناختی، به مشکلات بچه‌ ها نگاشته است، که بسیاری از آن‌ها جایزه گرفته‌ اند.» کتاب حاضر را نشر «افق» منتشر کرده است.
I remember being totally disappointed that the new baby was named Roberta. I still kinda am; Mr. Quimby's suggestion of Quentin Quincy Quimby was better. These books have made me laugh so much on the adult re-read. They are clever.
Though I know there's a book that comes after this one, this one seemed to be more of a Ramona reunion type of thing--what are the Quimbys up to now, years later, kind of thing.
Ramona's growing up, so she's not as cute and funny any more, seems to be the feeling, so the attention drifts to other things--mother having a baby and her perceptions of her to-be uncle.
I had some other wonders about the treatment of a mother having a baby and her not telling the children.
Otherwise, the story is pretty engaging, and there are funny things throughout that might keep a child's attention.
I've blown through the Henry Huggins and now the Ramona books with my third grade boy.
Gone is the annoying Ramona from the Henry Huggins books and the earlier Ramona books and I did miss her.
However, with this book in the series Ramona has matured, that she was more like my third-grade son, who has turned from an annoying boy into a pretty good kid too.
I like third grade!
This book wasn't as funny as the earlier books that had me cracking up in hysterical laughter, but I did like it just the same.
Came across my 2003 school reading log, so figured I should enter these books in too. In the words of my ten-year-old self, this book was: "Really good, pretty easy"
This book seemed to get a little bogged down. I want more of the wacky Ramona who throws her own birthday party and bakes her doll in the oven. Ramona is getting more and more like Beezus.I do like seeing how Ramona's life progresses as she gets older. She is such a lovable, relatable character. One gets the feeling that Cleary meant this to be the last in the series. I can't help but wonder where Henry Huggins is, though. It would have been great to include him. I am sure he turned out quite fine.
I'd say Ramona Quimby has become the favorite fictional character of our 5-year-old daughter. And why shouldn't she love the book series? Cleary's subtle use of humor is nothing short of brilliant. Her treatment of the inner lives of young people? Brilliant, too. You can tell a great writer by how well their books age. There's nothing dated about even the oldest installment of RQ. Ramona Forever simply adds another excellent chapter to the Quimbian corpus.
Howie's Uncle Hobart returns to wreak havoc on Klickitat Street.
Aunt Bea, wonderful Aunt Bea, is dating and GASP has agreed to marry Uncle Hobart.
Can Ramona survive two new additions to the family?What I thought: This book was a gem.
They were truly towels to marry for" (128)."She was winning at growing up" (182).Activities from Ramona Forever:Bicycle/unicycle ridingSomething to do with Arabian Nights which is referenced a lotMusic makingWeddings (planning them, pretending to have one, etc.)Names (Naming the newest Quimby...My Great Aunt Arizona by Gloria Houston is a picture book about the importance of names.)
Since I was such a huge fan of the Ramona series as a child, I was surprised to find out recently that there are two Ramona books that I had never read.
While I am happy to see that Ramona has matured and become a really "good kid", I have to say that a part of me missed her antics from earlier years.
Another big difference in this book is that the focus is less on Ramona's school life and more on her home life.
Definitely a "must-read" for fans of Cleary and the Ramona series.
I hate to say this, but I didn't like this book as much as the others.
It felt like the spark had gone out of Ramona, as if Ms. Cleary were writing this because she felt she should, rather than becuase she was inspired to.
It felt forced.
The wedding felt forced.
The new baby felt forced.
It's as if Ms. Cleary has run out of ideas, so she threw in several standard tropes to see if any would stick.
The book just felt flat.
سری 8 جلدی کتابهای رامونا رو به پیشنهاد و برای همراهی و تشویق خواهرزادهی 10 سالهام که تازه شروع به مطالعه کرده است خوندم. خیلی خیلی از خوندنشون لذت بردم. کتابها با اینکه در غالب داستان برای بچهها نوشته شده بود ولی در اصل روانشناسی کودک بود. بعد از خوندن این سری کتابها دیدم نسبت به دنیای بچهها و کارهایی که میکنند عوض شد. فکر میکنم از بعد از اون روابطم هم با بچهها بهتر شده. از سری کتابهایی هستند که حتما باز هم میخونمشون.
سری 8 جلدی کتاب‌های رامونا رو به پیشنهاد و برای همراهی و تشویق خواهرزاده‌ی 10 ساله‌ام که تازه شروع به مطالعه کرده است خوندم. خیلی خیلی از خوندنشون لذت بردم. کتاب‌ها با اینکه در غالب داستان برای بچه‌ها نوشته شده بود ولی در اصل روانشناسی کودک بود. بعد از خوندن این سری کتاب‌ها دیدم نسبت به دنیای بچه‌ها و کارهایی که می‌کنند عوض شد. فکر می‌کنم از بعد از اون روابطم هم با بچه‌ها بهتر شده. از سری کتاب‌هایی هستند که حتما باز هم می‌خونمشون.
I really liked this book, because it is funny, and reminds me of my little brother. I think this book would be best to read to someone little.One thing that I really like about Beverly Cleary is that she makes you feel Ramona's emotions. In one of her other books, I actually feel how jealous Ramona is, and how unfair it is that she is being blamed for something someone else did.
This might have been the last Ramona book, and it lacked the cocky spirit of the earlier Ramona books. In this book, the two big events are Ramona's mother being pregnant with a new baby, and Ramona's aunt getting married to a petroleum engineer. I hoped for something a little less conventional in 1978.
Whenever I see a three way mirror I still look for the million Brendas that go on forever. I loved this book and I loved reading it to Autumn. Another classic that has held up the test of time and shows that some childhood worries span generations.
Cleary has such an incredible gift for seeing the world through the eyes of a child. In rereading this book I was so struck by her respect for children. It is no wonder that these books still resonate with readers today.
"I really just thought it was a good book"
Love Stockard Channing's reading of all the Ramona books. We listen to them while traveling. Enjoyed by our whole family.
This book could almost be subtitled "Ramona Goes Soft." I guess there's a point where a cute, spunky, little girl either has to become thoughtful and nice, or she turns into a juvenile delinquent.
ครอบครัวควิมบีเกิดการเปลียนแปลงหลายอยาง มีสมาชิกทีจากไป และมีสมาชิกทีเพิมขึนมาเลมนีไมมีเรืองทีโรงเรียนเลยครอบครัวควิมบีตองตอสูกับวิกฤติการเงินตอไป ถึงพอจะเรียนจบแลวกใชวาจะไดเปนครูงายๆเลมนีราโมนาไมคอยมีวีรกรรมแลว โตขึนจากเลมแรกมากมาย
ครอบครัวควิมบีเกิดการเปลี่ยนแปลงหลายอย่าง มีสมาชิกที่จากไป และมีสมาชิกที่เพิ่มขึ้นมาเล่มนี้ไม่มีเรื่องที่โรงเรียนเลยครอบครัวควิมบีต้องต่อสู้กับวิกฤติการเงินต่อไป ถึงพ่อจะเรียนจบแล้วก็ใช่ว่าจะได้เป็นครูง่ายๆเล่มนี้ราโมนาไม่ค่อยมีวีรกรรมแล้ว โตขึ้นจากเล่มแรกมากมาย
اگر بخوام تعداد همه دفعاتی که این مجموعه رو خوندم رو توی گودریدز ثبت کنم، باید حداقل ماهی یه بار از چهار سال پیش شروع بشه.حتی یه مدت هفته ای یه بار می خوندمش، دیگه حسابش از دستم حسابی در رفته.
In the beginning of the book, Ramona is very excited because Howie's rich uncle is coming to town from Saudi Arabia; however, once he finally comes, Ramona realizes she doesn't like him and that Mrs. Kemp (Howie's grandmother) doesn't really like her.
Both Ramona and Beezus struggle to get along but push through because they don't want to go back to Mrs. Kemp's house.
I feel that a lot of third grade students would relate to Ramona, especially in this book when she is struggling to figure out who she is and how the big changes in her life are going to affect her.
I was always very excited to pick up the book and I would become entirely engrossed in what was happening in young Ramona's life.
Children, especially young girls, can relate to all of Ramona's feelings.
This is a great series, because young girls can "grow up" with Ramona and continue to relate to her life.
Although these books are fiction, they are timeless examples of how children deal with emotions and issues that come along.
In this book, Ramona had to deal with a cat dying, a father who has a hard time finding a job, an aunt marrying a man she doesn't necessarily like and a baby on the way for her mom.
Changes are afoot in Ramona Quimby's neck of the woods.
And, honestly, why do grownups treat children in some of the silly ways they do?
Nothing could happen if you didn't speak, and she liked things to happen." And I've always been proud of the way Ramona saves the day in this story—oh, yes, she does!Never a dull moment in this book full of changes in Ramona's life, and I'm looking forward to reading the next one in the series, which will be all-new to me.
I'm glad this was one of the 2 books I read because it's one of the better ones.
This book has the right balance of fun and real life to make it one of the better of the books in the series.Strangely, one of the few things I remembered from reading this as a child was the phrase "zwieback crumbs".
With the help of Google, I at long last know what they are.Hearing that we only have 1 book left to go in the series, my daughter declared that, when she grows up, she's going to write the next book in the series.
Having only read one other Ramona book, this one did not disappoint.
Ramona deals with a variety of feelings.
Her friend Howie's Uncle Hobart picks on her.
When he finally receives an offer, it is out of town so she worries about having to move.
She is alarmed when her aunt brings Uncle Hobart to dinner and announces they are marrying.
When her mom gives birth to her baby sister, Ramona has to deal with disappointment and frustration since she is too young to go to the maternity ward.
I would recommend this book and look forward to reading the entire Ramona series with my granddaughters.
Things at the Kemps after school are as bad as ever, and Willa Jean is as annoying as ever.
Somehow Ramona and Beezus manage to convince their parents that they can stay home together after school!
And then there's that one other little thing--Ramona's mother ir pregnanat!
It can't be that horrible man...This is the last Ramona book that I remember reading.
I don't think that I ever read the last one, Ramona's World.
This one is good, with lots of things going on; but unfortunately Ramona is growing up and her lovable goofs are fewer.
اولین کتاب از سِری رامونا که خوندم این بود.
یادم ه مامانم وقتی سوم دبستان بودم برام خریده بود و از خوندش خیلی هیجان زده شده بودم.
و بعدش یکی دیگه از این سری رو برام خرید و روز تولدم نوبت عصر بودم از مدرسه اومدم مهمون داشتیم رفتم تو اتاق یاسی و اذیتش می کردم که همون وسط اتاق ش رو زمین خوابم برد.
وقتی بیدار شدم کل سری رامونا بالای سرم می درخشیدن.
:))الان کامل از ماجراهای رامونا چیزی یادم نمیاد، اما فکر می کنم تو اون دوران بهترین تجربه ی کتاب خوونی م بوده باشه.پ.ن: براساس میزان علاقه ام بهش در دوران کودکی هم ریت ش کردم.
At first, I didn't think I had ever read this Ramona book, but then I recognized one of the alternate covers. Once I began reading, I definitely remember reading about the Ramona & Willa Jean drama, and Howie's unicycle. This was probably my favorite of all the Ramona books when I was a kid, and I remember commiserating with Ramona quite a bit. This is a classic children's book for me. Beverly Cleary was wonderful at getting inside the brain of a child!
Mrs. Kemp drives me crazy! I keep hoping an adult with step in and defend Ramona. Poor girl blamed for everything. Loved Ramona's confusion about why Beatrice got so upset when she called her "Pizza-face" instead of their old standard "Pie-face." So spot on! Beatrice happened to be feeling self-conscious about her skin, and Ramona had bad timing when expanding her name-calling vocabulary!
I just happened to see this on the library shelf and grabbed it and re-read it. I doubt I've touched these books since I was a kid, and yet I was surprised by how much I remembered! Reading this as a grown-up, I'm so impressed with Cleary's ability to remember how kids see things and how they feel. As I read, I can remember thinking that way, although I couldn't have recreated that at all. It takes talent to be an author for children's books!
