https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37976541-bad-blood
Fascinating accounting of the Theranos scam and I do mean SCAM. Exhaustively reported. I do wish there had been more analysis of how a scam of this magnitude was made possible and enabled. This girl dropped out of college and convinced Henry Kissinger, George Schulz, Rupert Murdoch and a bunch of other famous and/or incredibly talented people to give her money or work with her even though there was no there, there. WHAT? There are so many incredible WTF moments. Just wow. Privilege is a hell of a drug, I guess.
Among the recipients that year was Silicon Valley legend, Andy Grove, getting the lifetime achievement award.Also on the list, getting the “global benefactor” award, was someone I had never heard of, Elizabeth Holmes.
(My wife would always add: “on paper.”) In some photos she posed with a tiny vial of blood that was supposed to represent all that would be needed to do numerous tests with the company device.Almost a month later, the first in a series of Wall Street Journal articles about Theranos, by the author of this book, was published.
Still, I recently found myself reading a book so compelling that I couldn’t turn away.Bad Blood: Secrets and Lies in a Silicon Valley Startup by John Carreyrou details the rise and fall of Theranos.
If you aren’t familiar with the Theranos story, here’s the short version: the company promised to quickly give you a complete picture of your health using only a small amount of blood.
Her investors got their blood tested by the same machines available in any lab in the country, and they had no idea.There’s a lot Silicon Valley can learn from the Theranos mess.
A syndrome that plagues industries - where something is considered so good and profitable that it is a risk to decline it in a case it would actually end up working and be found in the hands of the rivals.Elizabeth Holmes, and her shady crew, exploited this syndrome to the fullest.
In Holmes case, she simply wanted something and put other people to work and she herself had little business in it other than not accepting anything negative, productive or reasonable about her views of how a device should be.She and her crew was an hideous example of corporation way of handling their business and their workers.
Early in my career I worked at a next-generation sequencing startup with Theranos-level ambitions.
Quite the contrary: When the founders realized that the technology was not going to work (or would take many more years to validate) they decided to fold the company.
Many of those scientists went on to work at Theranos.
It was surreal to know that the company was a fraud and yet to see it rise.Carreyrou exposed it all.
And, unscrupulous people do worse.A couple years ago I tweeted: ‘At what point do high-profile unicorn frauds irreparably damage the philosophy and practice of founder-friendly investors?’ That was about Hampton Creek.
The code phrase of the idealist is ‘Making a Difference.’ So Holmes “wanted to truly leave her mark on the world, she would need to accomplish something that furthered the greater good, not just become rich.” But most of all their energy and enthusiasm gets them power, the power to promote their own idealistic self-image.
Holmes made it clear to her employees that she was “starting a religion.” It is faith which justifies, for the idealist as for any believer, those actions necessary to acquire power.
And idealism justifies anything for those who have it; it makes the idealist immune from self-criticism, and indifferent to the consequences of his actions.
4.5 Stars Elizabeth told the gathered employees that she was building a religion. If there were any among them who didn’t believe, they should leave. Wow! What a powerful story. I'm a fan of financial stories and I personally work in the tech industry so when I heard about this book I knew I had to read it. If you like shows like Shark Tank, I think you will find this story interesting.Elizabeth Holmes is 19 and an incredibly smart girl. She decides to dropout of Stanford because she has an idea
I have no idea how large companies such as Walgreens and Safeway were able to not see through the lies.
The author, who is also the WSJ journalist who broke this story, calls Elizabeth a sociopath.
I'm not sure I would have pegged her as that but when you think about it, she literally could have killed people if doctors actually believe this medical device worked.
Oh and if you look Elizabeth up online she's already starting to try to get people to invest in a new business idea she has.
It’s hard to believe that Theranos really happened because you think that nowadays it’s easy to spot liars and lying technologies… but it’s not that easy after all, especially if the person duping you is as charismatic as this Elizabeth Holmes is.
But the main reason why it took a VERY long time for people to catch on that Theranos was doing more harm than good was that people WANTED to believe in the product.
I, myself, wanted Elizabeth Holmes’s idea to work because how amazing would it have been to have results pretty much instantly and get rid of big scary needles?
When I heard about this book from a television show, it sounded unbelievable.
Elizabeth Holmes, was a Stanford drop-out that used her knowledge and family connections to build a billion dollar start-up name Theranos.
If you live in the USA, you will be shocked by many of the big names that totally fell for the scam.
Actually, the names are so big you will probably recognize them even living outside the USA.
If you have heard about this book and were considering reading it I absolutely recommend it.
This is not my normal fiction I love to read, instead it’s the unbelievable truth.
(With 'family friends' like these, who needs enemies?)And Carreyrou is good about considering to what extent Theranos really reflects on SV: as he points out, a lot of the actual investors were 'dumb money' (my phrase) who did minimal real due diligence and ignored red flags, like Rupert Murdoch who put in $125m on the basis of 2 meetings with Holmes and a phone call to someone else, while the usual life-sciences VCs were unimpressed with Holmes's bluster & ignorance and took a total pass on her.
HOLY COW. I followed the Elizabeth Holmes/Theranos story slightly but this book does such a fantastic job of showing how completely banana pants this situation was. This was also great on audio, and so addictive that I started making up chores I could do just so I could keep listening.Watch me discuss this book in my July wrap up: https://youtu.be/8kaQcaNn9uw
Tips on how to make an unicorn:- Be a sociopath- Excel at sales&marketing- Get some cool people on your BoardTips to how to fake it till you make it?- Hire a lot of lawyers- Intimidate all your employees- Pretend that you are a vocal proponent of a cause that you are actually againstHow to make it as a woman in the tech world?- Baritone- Intese staringWhat can fuck up your amazing future as a tech billionaire?- Facts and data :( I love any story that shows how sales&marketing can change the world. This one is awesome. Scary, but awesome.
At least no one died, though another person is suing for a heart attack he said could have been prevented if their test had been accurate.) It was also an extreme example of paranoia and litigious bullying, using investor money to buy the finest in legal muscle to intimidate anyone and everyone: former employees, former board members, the journalist who broke the story (this book's author), the  Wall Street Journal itself—even the doctors and patients who complained about faulty test results received a personal visit from Sunny, where he threatened to ruin their careers if they didn’t sign away their right to complain.
There were so many unbelievable things in this true account of the Theranos scam that my mouth dropped open in a way I did not think happens in real life.John Carreyrou traces the story of Elizabeth Holmes and her medical start-up Theranos from the beginning with the help of countless interviews and other insights.
I do agree with his assessment that Holmes scammed her investors purposefully and did not care about the patients being misdiagnosed because of her flawed technology but I wish he had let me come to this assessment on my own a bit more.As a case study of how the lack of diverse knowledge can harm a company, this book is priceless.
What an audacious fraud! Elizabeth Holmes must be the Queen of self-hype to get so many powerful (and allegedly smart) men to support this scheme (Jim Mattis! Henry Kissinger!). I would enjoy seeing both her and Sunny Balwani in jail, for what they'd done not only to their customers, but their employees.Although I am not a fan of Wall Street Journal and the baloney they peddle in their opinion pieces, I was impressed by how their investigative department stood up against legal pressures from Theranos. Real journalism is great!
It has all the elements of a good fictional thriller, but what makes this story most shocking and intriguing -- is the fact that it really happened.
While aware of the Theranos story playing out at the time, “Bad Blood” provides a more detailed accounting of events.
By exposing the fraud that Holmes and Theranos were, we now know that intelligent people were duped, money and resources were wasted, and lives were saved.
But Holmes certainly didn't make it easy to see her side of the story when all the facts were laid out.
Should be mandatory B-School readingI read this book in one day.
I had read some articles and/or saw TV shows on Theranos and Elizabeth Holmes, but my knowledge was pretty general.
Once I started the book, I could not put it down.
I canceled lunch with a friend so I could continue reading.
I ordered pizza for the family so I could continue reading.
It is a story that every Board should read because ultimately it failed in its oversight responsibilities - which seems to be a recurring theme with debacles that could've been prevented with real oversight.
This is an unbelievable story - I literally cannot believe how so many people were duped by this company.
It's a story of a Stanford grad dropout who had a vision, and an uncanny ability to make others believe her, and as the pressure piled on, as she started to be compared to Steve Jobs, and get accolades like "first female self-made billionaire", she started to cheat.
Of course, none of those people know anything about biotech companies, so it's also a story about investor optimism (and lack of due diligence).
In Bad Blood, Carreyrou plots the rise and inevitable fall of Theranos and it's charismatic leader Elizabeth Holmes, who went from Stanford dropout, to a net worth of 5 billion dollars back to zero in course of a few short years.When I was at Caltech in the early 2000s, one of the best talks I attended was by a professor who re-purposing silicon chip technology to etch microscopic channels, with switches etc, which would allow researchers to mix-and-match chemical reagents, literally on a silicon chip.
The Theranos device never made sense to me from the news reports.
But the college dropout with the fancy connections managed to fool all kinds of famous and important people for years and years, and get about $1 billion in investments, publicity, etc.
As the author of the book correctly points out, this isn't just about a stupid consumer product, this was a medical device with life-or-death implications.
The closest thing to heroes in the story are the ex-insiders who talked to the reporter.
There should be a better system to stop this kind of insanity sooner.
There are a lot of things mentioned by Carreyou that ring true to the world of biotech/pharma: strict security, IP and nondisclosure agreements, odd perks, etc., but the author makes an interesting point on how life science based companies are different from purely tech based startups, something I would have to agree with.
This brings us to an important distinction between this particular company and others who have dabbled in making it big through invention--Theranos dealt with human samples and marketed itself as an alternative to traditional DIAGNOSTIC testing.
Simultaneously riveting and immensely frustrating in the way that I imagine watching a trainwreck in slow-motion might be, major props go to John Carreyrou for seeing through and doggedly pursuing a story that undoubtedly could have ended with a fallout far beyond the scope of SV royalty.This isn't even a review so much as a reminder that this, yes, this (below) is the face of a willing destroyer of worlds…
The biggest stir in the audience was his reveal that Rupert Murdoch, owner of the WSJ and hence Carreyrou's ultimate boss, had made a $125 million late-stage investment in Theranos, now worth nothing.
Even to a multi-billionaire, $125 million is way past chicken-feed.Anyway, Carreyrou's take is that Elizabeth Holmes is a pathological liar, and never had anything that was even close to working.
Safeway spent $350 million on "Wellness Centers" for Theranos, ignoring medical consultants reports that their machines weren't working.
Theranos heavies were strong-arming doctors who were unhappy with the (fake) tests, and talking to Carreyrou.Definitely a must read, and "soon to be a major motion picture." 4.5+ stars.
And with everyone I meet who has already read the book, we share this "OH MY GOD, can you believe it?!" moment and start going over the (many, many) things that blew our collective minds.
Even if you prefer fiction to nonfiction, you're still going to rip through this book as it's a gripping story full of heroes, heroines, fools, and villains.
But you know the book is always better than the movie, so read this first!
Fool the right people and the spell is transferred like a virus among certain circles.
I decided to read this book because I have a bit of fascination with Silicon Valley Start-Ups and after finishing and thoroughly enjoying  How To Turn Down A Billion Dollars: The SnapChat Story  my interest was piqued by the title of this book- Bad Blood.
So let me start by saying, before I picked up this book I've never heard of Theranos or Elizabeth Holmes, I finished this book three days ago and all I can think about is Theranos- I now feel personally invested in this fiasco.
As CEO of Theranos, Elizabeth aimed to build an at home device where with "one drop of blood" you could be given an reading of any disease or illness you have...
I put this book on hold before I heard all the buzz, because I had read a piece or two on Elizabeth Holmes and they never got into the actual science involved and I was very curious about how much of a swindle Theranos actually was and how the science played into it.
People believe anything Elizabeth Holmes says, even though she stands to benefit financially from avoiding the truth.
It's baffling.I highly, highly recommend reading this book with a friend, or at least finding a buddy who has already read it because you will NEED to yell.
A tremendous piece of investigative journalism that really highlights the lengths to which a sociopath will go to achieve their goals. This book may be the best one I read this year. Unlikely villians and heroes go head to head, a woman running a company like a mob boss, blatent lying, gullible famous people, family feuds. I love fiction, but if this book was a novel, no one would find it believable.
Scandalous! A fast and addictive read about how a sociopathic college drop out who thought she was Steve Jobs charmed a bunch of old rich men into making her a billionaire. She’s a complete piece of 💩. Utterly amazing that this went down in our backyard of Silicon Valley. Can’t wait for J-Law to play her in the book-to-film adaptation!
I tore through this in less than 24 hours. What an appalling story. It's hard to read about leaders who don't seem like they care about their employees. Humans are flawed and leaders make mistakes, but when they don't care about other people or view discourse as disloyalty I believe they are not doing their job.
Who knew blood analysis could be so complicated? Apparently not Elizabeth Holmes and the rest of the management of Theranos. She must have been extremely charismatic and persuasive to be able to get so many prominent people to support her. The level of delusion, arrogance, and chutzpah on display in this story is staggering. Well-researched and well-written, this is truly an instance of fact being stranger than fiction.
