https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/192893.Whose_Body_
More dimension follows later.There is so much that I love about this book, including the very first page; its first two words, and indeed the first two words Wimsey ever utters to us, are "Oh, damn!" Just a few lines down is the sentence that encapsulates so much about Sayers's writing, the perfect litmus test for the Lord Peter series: "His long, amiable face looked as if it had generated spontaneously from his top hat, as white maggots breed from Gorgonzola." Either you find that quirkily poetic and want to read more, or you should be reading something else entirely.(Curiously, this is only the first of no fewer than three completely random and incidental mentions in this volume of that particular cheese.
I have to assume that Sayers was a fan.)The actual mystery is brilliant: a man goes into his bathroom one morning to find a naked corpse in the tub, wearing nothing but a pair of golden pince-nez.
“It is a game to me, to begin with, and I go on cheerfully, and then I suddenly see that somebody is going to be hurt, and I want to get out of it.” “Yes, yes, I know,” said the detective, “but that’s because you’re thinking about your attitude.
At the same time, he is aware of his life of privilege and wants to do something meaningful; thus, his ‘hobby’ of investigating crime cases.The Dowager Duchess of Denver, Lord Peter’s and Lord Wimsey’s (Gerald) mother, is shrewd enough to know that if her son is to fully recover, his hobby could be a good avenue for getting there.
Parker takes up a lot of Lord Peter’s slack when Lord Peter experiences agitation at getting too close to possible suspects.
Even the time and place, 1920s England, hits the Jeeves/Wooster mark.The mystery of who dunnit wasn't exactly mind-boggling.
But this mystery doesn't seem to care for the diabolical plot as much as others in the genre.
Dorothy Sayers appears perhaps more interested in developing a deeper character.
For instance, the reasoning behind Lord Peter's desire to catch criminals comes into question more than once through the book.
Also, at one point the main character says something like "He's got a touch of the tar-baby in him." Perhaps it's all part of Sayers' attempt to create a well-rounded and representative person from 1920s England.
Oh, I feel so badly how much I disliked this book.
As a mystery genre fan and avid reader of Agatha Christie, I thought for sure I would enjoy the much-reccomended Lord Peter Wimsey series by Dorothy L.
Book collector Peter Wimsey is on the case!
To be honest I couldn't bring myself to complete this book.
The characters were much too arrogant for my taste and the whole take on the mystery solving seemed primitive.
Not to mention constant anti-semetic comments littering much of the book.
I just was very turned off by it all.Some people consider this an early mystery masterpiece.
Wimsey enlists the help of his valet, Mervyn Bunter, in the detective work, and the dry British wit of the duo had me laughing.
On the same day Reuben Levy, an important Jewish financier, is reported missing.
A confessional letter by the criminal at the end of the book detailed why the corpse was found in the tub.Although the characters seem to think that the Jewish Reuben Levy is a good person, there were quite a few stereotypical comments about Jews scattered throughout the book.
Too much fun!In his first case, Wimsey teams up with his friend Charles Parker, to solve the discovery of a murdered naked dead man in a bathtub, and the disappearance of a local financier, Sir Reuben Levy.
With his trusty man servant Bunter and Scotland Yard's Charles Parker in tow, Lord Peter Wimsey is on the case!At just over 200 pages, this book is a quick and fun read.
Sayers wrote 11 Lord Peter Wimsey books and five collections of short stories.
I was led to finally read this series while watching the documentary A Very British Murder featuring Historian Lucy Worsley.
At last, I pick up Dorothy Sayers' first mystery novel and finally learn the Origins of Lord Peter!...except, this isn't an origin story like I was expecting.
Peter's mother doesn't understand Judaism very well, but there's nothing particularly unkind in her dialogue - in fact, she's basically saying, "Yes, Jews are different and I don't understand their religion at all, but they should be able to marry who they like." Furthermore, I think that based on what I know of Sayers' other books, the speech is meant to be a comic display of how little Judaism was understood at the time.
In the past couple of years I've ventured beyond the novels and the short stories (not being much of a short story reader, I've not read all of these) to read Sayers' collected letters, some of her essays (such as Are Women Human?) and Barbara Reynold's excellent biography, Dorothy L.
This novel is where it started for Sayers' best known contribution to crime fiction  literature, Lord Peter Wimsey.
I'm looking forward to a Lord Peter re-read over the next 12 months with my good friend and Sayers novice Jemidar.
It really gives me the shudders, especially since lately in the real world it seems like anti-Semitism is making a strong comeback.The mystery is good.
But it was a good line, and I expected more like this, but I didn't get any.The only other line that really grabbed me was when Wimsey's about to be killed by the murderer and he grabs the murderer's wrist in an iron grip: When lovers embrace, there seems no sound in the world but their own breathing.
They are all wrong!This mystery has an intriguing enough premise - a naked dead body is found in the home of a harmless man that everyone automatically knew was not the murderer because well, the Wimseys (mother and son) said so!
Lord Wimsey is called on to investigate the murder.
At the same time, Wimsey's friend, Parker, is searching for a missing person - a JEW.
I don't understand how Wimsey even arrives at the conclusion that X is the murderer.
Peter Wimsey is extremely annoying in every way possible.
I don't think I'll be wasting my time on any more Sayers.
A dead body of an unknown man is found in a tub of a seemingly harmless local architect, and it is up to Lord Peter Wimsey to prove his innocence.
Lord Peter Wimsey also looks into a disappearance of a prominent financier to help his friend inspector Parker.
This is my first Dorothy Sayers book.
The plot was quite good and kept me guessing...
for the first half of the book.
It was possible to guess what was going on right in the middle of the book.
As a character, Lord Peter Wimsey does not hold a candle to Sherlock Holmes, Hercule Poirot, or Miss Marple.
A first glance, the corpse appears to be that of Lord Levy, a Jewish financier.
Fortunately, Lord Peter Wimsey is on the case...I really liked this one.
I have to believe Dorothy Sayers was influenced by P.G. Wodehouse at least a little bit.
Lord Peter Wimsey could easily be a Wodehouse character.
He's a short pompous British aristocrat, shell-shocked from WWI, who solves mysteries for fun and has a decidedly Wodehousian manner about him.
The mystery was well done.
Sayers's writing is like Agatha Christie with a hint of Wodehouse.
I'll be reading more of Wimsey's cases, that's for sure.
I hope that Dorothy Sayers would be pleased that people are still reading her Lord Peter Wimsey series in the 21st century, 50 years after her death.
Things went even further awry close to the end of the book, when Lord Peter speaks with a woman in French.
All the accents, circumflexes and cedillas were replaced by symbols and numbers and made the conversation extremely difficult to parse out.Though not the most scintillating mystery that I’ve ever read, it is better than many.
When time permits, I will undoubtedly read further adventures of Lord Peter Wimsey.
It took me a bit to get used to the writing style; at times I felt like I was missing something in the dialogue or I couldn't quite follow the train of thought of the astute and often amusing Lord Peter Wimsey.
The character of Lord Peter Wimsey appealed to me, as did his industrious butler, Bunter.
The relationship between Lord Peter and the detective, Parker, was equally entertaining.
He's like a detective in a novel." So, I give this mystery three stars for providing a fun bit of diversion; I look forward to reading another.
This book fails miserably as a mystery novel.
I don't even want to know whence Sayers got the idea that Peter Wimsey, an irresponsible, idle blue-blood running around interrupting other people's work, ironising about "democracy" and "equality", good-humouredly patronising people who, unlike him, are paid for actually doing something, and pampered like a little baby by his butler, is a likeable character.
Discrimination of lower classes goes as far as stating that members of the working class all have a similar, primitive shape of head.
For a woman so well educated, and fighting against discrimination herself, Sayers sure judges others by their cover.
3 1/2 stars for my second ever Dorothy L Sayers read.I don't believe I have ever read a book that has quite as much dialogue as this one!'It might have been burglars.....remember that next time you leave a window open all night; this time it was a dead man.......but next time it might be burglars.'One man disappears and a body is found in a bathtub.
It bears a superficial resemblance.....but Sir Peter Wimsey at once spies something that precludes this being so and sets out to investigate.Dorothy L Sayers so well mastered the art of writing with wit that it is an absolute delight to read her work.
Initially I tried it in audiobook format, but couldn't get through it because I thought I didn't care for the narrator.
My apologies to Nadia May (the narrator of the audiobook).
It wasn't her, it was Whose Body.This is a fine mystery, certainly nothing wrong with it, and I'm sure it appeals to a lot of people.
The dialogue was witty and sharp.
But there was just so much dialogue.
But in Whose Body there were just too many voices, too much talking, too few conversational breaks to keep me interested and involved.
I couldn't follow all of those people blabbering all the time!

Then, at the same time, one particularly notable individual has gone missing.However, as the best detective novels do, Sayers work does not merely stop at observing a crime, the repercussions and the conclusion.
To that end this novel becomes capable of observing that all too simple idea of 'the human condition.' An idea that after many thousands of years remains as simple and unsolvable a quandary as any of the best crimes to be found in fiction or reality.If you intend to look for some of the better classic crime novels then you cannot go wrong with Sayers work here.
Read as part of the Book Pals thread at A Good Thriller group.I've read this before, but I'm more than happy to "rediscover" Lord Peter again.
I've always loved him ever since I first watched the Lord Peter Mysteries on Masterpiece Theater starring Ian Carmichael.In many ways, the Lord Peter Wimsey character is much better than his contemporaries Hercule Poirot and Miss Marple.
Lord Peter is a well-structured character with a history and a family.
In Whose Body?, we are introduced to characters we will grow to love: Lord Peter, his valet Bunter, Inspector Parker of Scotland Yard, and that dear, the Dowager Duchess of Denver.The mystery is nicely paced with fun characters and a nice denouement.
My first Lord Peter Wimsey novel and an entertaining read. Moved along at a good pace and the mystery element was well done. Wimsey was an interesting character in his own right although my favourite character was the indomitable, unflappable Bunter.Not quite politically correct but enjoyed the times depicted and the character of Lord Peter Wimsey faults, foibles and all.
The very first Dorothy Sayers featuring Lord Peter Wimsey, Whose Body? is a highly enjoyable read. I simply love the characters (Wimsey, Bunter, the Dowager...) and Sayers's writing is brilliant and full of wit. The mystery in itself is very entertaining: it all begins when a man finds a naked corpse in his tub one morning, wearing nothing but a golden pince-nez. An excellent premise and a excellent read!
I love cozy mysteries and picked this book with great hope. But this is a mediocre read hence the  2 stars . Storyline: A dead body of an unknown person found in the bathtub of an architect- (the architect being known to Lord Peter's mother) and in parallel a renowned financier has gone missing. Is there a connection in between these cases??(view spoiler)[Yes (hide spoiler)]We get a decent hint as to how the story is going to move ahead about 50% of the book and the culprit is easily identifiabl
Though, Lord Peter's mother would have made a better main protagonist for this book....Detective Parker (a Scotland Yard detective) was partner of Lord Peter in this investigation and their relation gave off strong Sherlock- Watson vibes.Lord Peter's Butler- Mr. Bunter reminded me of Jeeves- a character from P.G.Wodehouse novels (this may be as I have read My Man Jeeves recently).
This was only because he controlled Lord Peter's dressing sense and was involved actively in the investigation.....Folks who are fan's of Agatha Christie may find this mystery rather tepid.I am still going to go ahead and try the next book of this series to see if I like it any better....
It was only after I read that, and learned she was a contemporary and friend of C.S. Lewis and J.R.R. Tolkien, that I stumbled on her original claim to fame—Lord Peter Wimsey.
is the first of the eleven Lord Peter mysteries she wrote in her lifetime.
If you are at all literary, you need to make friends with Lord Peter who is a literary sleuth.
Lord Peter is no perfectionist Hercule Poirot.
He's one of the most likable fictional characters I've run across, with the possible exception of Bertie Wooster.
The introduction of the characters a 5 star.
No easy task and done superbly.Having read the much later (this is in late 1920's and he is pure bachelor late 30's in age) novels/ episodes- this one was a perfect length introduction beyond what can usually be captured in under 200 pages.She truly had a gift and the background minutia to fit a more classically honed intellect, class distinctions, quirky perplexities and period place exactness into her copy.
Her unique style too of speech (conversations are so personality insightful and deep for nuance) and placements of prose length are signature.
3.5* Challenge from the Reading the Detectives Group.
Read at http://digital.library.upenn.edu/wome...
(I don't enjoy reading books online, but the experience improved when I sat at my desk & used a mouse!)A most enjoyable romp although motivation, plot & method were lacking.
What this book had in spades were appealing characters & sparkling dialogue - I especially liked the letter manservant Bunter sent to Lord Peter!
A lot of the language & wit reminded me of Wodehouse - a favourite author of mine.I'm looking forward to 
next month with the group & spending some time at the Savile Club with Lord Peter!
Lord Peter Wimsey, a shell-shocked British aristocrat, finds comfort and entertainment in Napoleon brandy, early editions of Dante, and solving bizarre mysteries.
Lord Peter and his trusty man, Bunting, together with the aid of police detective Parker, must sort through the clues to discover if and how the two mysteries are related.Sayers writes thicker prose than most mystery writers.
So, as a novel, the book works pretty well; but as a mystery, maybe not so well.
The solution was ridiculously far-fetched: how could that body in the tub have been transported hither, thither, and yon without getting terrifically scratched up?
Readers of a certain age will remember the wonderful BBC television productions of Sayers’ Wimsey novels, starring Ian Carmichael.
He is the brilliant amateur, the hobby detective, sometimes uneasy with his own delight in hunting down murderers and not untouched by his own hauntings, the result of his experiences in the trenches of WW I.I listened to this as an audio-book while working out at the gym on the elliptical trainer, and it enabled the time to pass quickly and painlessly.
Many years ago I think I read all the books in the series, but age and time have obliterated the details from my memory, and it was a treat to become reacquainted.
In this first Lord Peter Wimsey mystery we are introduced to our amateur detective, his friends and family.
Quickly discovering that the body in the bath is not that of Sir Levy, Wimsey sets out to solve the mystery with his friend, Parker, an able member of Scotland Yard.This is an enjoyable introduction to the delights of Lord Peter and his world.
Although modern crime writers are often scathing of the gentleman, or amateur, detective, this is pure entertainment.
If you enjoy Agatha Christie or other Golden Age detective novels, then you will love this.
