https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30852.The_Woman_Warrior
And when this is contrasted to the "No Name Woman" in chapter 1, one can understand why strong female role models and fables were so important to Maxine's self-esteem and sense of self-worth.I have visited China many times, but primarily the metropolises and my contacts with Chinese people have not been very deep.
And yet, that also bears some ambiguity because as bad was the Cultural Revolution was, before that, Mao had banned foot-binding (described several times in The Woman Warrior): "Nobody wrote to tell us that Mao himself had been matched to an older girl when he was a child and that he was freeing women from prisons, where they had been put for refusing the businessmen their parents had picked as husbands.
The methods through which they do so revolve around words written, spoken, or not spoken: from the silence practiced by No Name Woman, to the words written on the warrior’s back, to the songs created by Ts’ai Yen and, finally, to the stories that Kingston as the author uses to find the marks of the woman warrior within herself, and to do so in a way that allows the readers insight into a life that even the narrator is grappling to understand.
This union between mother and daughter the novel can be seen as the compromise of generations, an idea carried out in Kingston’s appropriation of myths and stories seen in the retelling of these woman warriors.
4.5 starsThe Swordswoman of WordsThe Woman Warrior is Maxine Hong Kingston's own story of growing up Chinese-American, an irreconcilable position for her as the two cultures would seemingly clash, unable to provide her with a stable sense of identity.
All she knew of the place she had never been, was through the 'talk-stories' told by her mother; parables in the Chinese tradition of telling magical stories and incorporating them into their everyday life; of ancestors and relatives, and great tales of mythic and cultural heroines.
'The Woman Warrior' was a vehicle for the many voices MHK heard within herself.
This woman she admires and fears and at times feels rejected and hated by, whose behaviour is a mystery to her because she refuses to explain anything, seems to expect her to raise herself Chinese in barbarian America, a land of ghosts.
We have the narrator's feelings and her glorious, multivalent fantasies of her mother's inner life, her therapeutic self-mythologising, a patchy, lumpen blending of ways of being and knowing than opens doors and hearts, names spirits, recounts mysteries, but maintains, I felt, a kind of respectful refusal to assume.
I think I read almost this entire book with my jaw dropped. Maxine Hong Kingston has an incredible ability to say so much, so brilliantly, within every single phrase. The structure of her memoir speaks to all three of her identifications - Chinese/ American/ Woman - merging fiction with non-fiction and her own story with those of relatives and mythic heroines, to create a piece that represents her own immersion in a culture far better than a more traditional autobiography or memoir ever could. Super-highly recommended.
I think most of my issues with this book would've been solved if Hong Kingston stopped saying "Chinese blah blah blah", as if all Chinese people were one great homogeneous block and did the same thing, all the time and everywhere.
(She kind of acknowledges this issue, in that she is like, I don't know what about me is Chinese and what is from my family and what is from the village etc.
(As far as I can recall, Amy Tan had a similar thing -- like, you could tell she had Issues -- and similar issues with her mom.)
It is the first book by an Asian American writer accepted into the American canon (the first to be taught in universities etc.).
I had a prof who excuses it with this passage where Kingston has her grandma say something like, "do you really believe all these stories I tell you about China?
they're just stories." how does that little paragraph excuse an entire book where she's purporting to represent a monolithic and highly distorted Chinese culture?
Interestingly enough, she's a part of a writer's circle including Amy Tan, though of course Kington's books are nothing like the garbage Tan writes.
If colleges really want to teach about Asian-American or Chinese cultures and life, I don't understand why they'd pick a memoir so boring and stereotypical.
Kingston's voice sounds forced and lifeless, which is unfortunate, as this memoir sounded very promising.This book fits colleges very well: It's politically correct to a point where it seeps off the pages in mass doses, the author's voice rings of one you'd hear from an NPR host, it talks about horrendous and perverse comportments in a tone so dull it's almost insulting, and the book just reeks of a holier-than-thou attitude that is common in college-assigned memoirs.I picked up this book myself, not have it assigned to me.
If you want to read some Asian-American lit, I don't recommend this one.
I couldn't tell, and I don't think the publisher could either, whether this book was fiction or not.
It is called a memoir, but on the back of my copy, it says fiction, yet it won an award for nonfiction.
I know an author has creative license, especially with a memoir, but the realistic chapters placed next to fantasy ones made the book too disjointed for me and I couldn't get into it.
The first chapter blew me away and I was disappointed that the rest of the book wasn't like that.
A memoir of a Chinese-American woman of her experiences growing up in an immigrant family in Sacramento, and the tremendous weight and power of the mythical China her mother enveloped her in, her view of herself, stubborn and real, overlaid with her mother's Chinese sense of the worth of a girl (not much, and yet, the stories of the warrior girl makes us question that).
It paved the way for so many books about ethnic mythos and American ambivalence and women's power that it lost some of its startling quality, while retaining its mastery and depth and the trueness of its questions.
It was so hard for me to get through, and I can't figure out why.
There are several short stories, which may be something I am not used to, or the fact that there is some fantastical writing in it and some hilarious things, too (old Chinese women following young kids around and talking out loud in description "and now she puts the spiders in the bowl and turns them on.
Her eyes light up!") It's pretty good writing, but I just couldn't get into it and basically dragged my way through most of the book.
"'I' is a capital and 'you' is lower-case."This sums up the focus of Maxine's memoirs: the cultivation of a hyphenated Chinese-American self in a world full of ghosts! Can she do it without a hitch? Without struggling to cope with the conflicting demands of family, school and society?Recommended.
Once when I was a kid some extended family came over and someone broke out Trivial Pursuit.
As a kid I believed this written statement to be LAW, and breaking the law was the worst thing you could do.
I understood the mechanics of a trivia game but was completely mystified by the nuances of printed rules.The Woman Warrior is Kingston's version of these kinds of stories, only the subtext is much more complicated and the fears much less trivial (wow did I not plan to set up that pun, but Zing!!).
I've wanted to read this book for so very long and am so very glad it did not disappoint.MHK takes the reader on an entrancing journey, mixing memory with legend and creating a novel really unlike anything I've read before.
It was a really compelling look at Chinese culture and at her own experiences growing up as a daughter of Chinese immigrants.
It was especially interesting because I could see aspects of my own family experience in MHK's stories, even though I have generations removed and from a mixed marriage.All in all, a really beautiful novel that I will definitely need to reread in the future.
An excellent book. I read this memoir of growing up Chinese American in California in graduate school, and was deeply moved by it. I particularly appreciated Hong Kingston's intertwining of ancient myth and contemporary immigrant challenges. Beautiful, powerful language. The first chapter, No Name Woman, about the terrible fate of a pregnant aunt in China, is unforgettable. This book, more than any other, made me believe my immigrant stories were also worth telling. This book, more than any other, made me into a writer.
Fantastic.
I wish we had read this in sophomore year of high school instead of Catcher in the Rye. This book is an amazing, lyrically written book about growing up as a girl between two cultures, neither of which is particularly empowering to adolescent girls.
What I didn't like about the school system teaching Catcher in the Rye as a 'universal story of adolescence' was because I felt it was a very masculine story of adolescence--the things Holden does (punch walls, order a prostitute, be overly protective of his sister) are very male-oriented and didn't particular resonate with me as a 16-year-old.
i read this for school.
i do not read books with titles like this in my own time.
i hear that in the 90's this was the book most taught in universities.the poor 90's.the themes are obvious: mother/daughter relations are difficult.
merging cultures is difficult.
trying to find your voice is difficult.i do, however, commend the merging of genres, because the whole fiction/non-fiction thing is pretty ridiculous in my opinion.
(is it not all fiction?) the narrative gives way from "memoir" to the narrator's version of traditional chinese stories and moments from her mother and aunts' lives which she was not there to experience.my favorite line: "i learned to make my mind large, as the universe is large so there is room for paradoxes."
This was an eye-opening look at Chinese American culture when I read it in the early-80s. It was a real soul-baring treatise of a life very, very unlike my own. So honest, yet so unbelievable. Appreciated so much the way Kingston portrayed traditional beliefs from across the ocean as a part of her family's American experience in modern San Francisco.A classic work for young Americans struggling to bridge generational differences both cultural and in general.
We say that your father has all brothers because it is as if she had never been born."I thought this book was amazing!
I loved her story about being a Chinese-American and trying to find a culture that fit her.
Kingston also attacks the subject of what it means to be a girl in Chinese culture, which for her was not always easy.
I am really a Dragon, as she is a Dragon, both of us born in dragon years.""We could be heroines, swordswomen.
Even if she had to rage across all China, a swordswoman got even with anybody who hurt her family.
“I learned to make my mind large, as the universe is large, so that there is room for paradoxes.” This was very very instructive, I can't tell you how many things I've learned about Chinese culture, myths and legends. Loved the parallel between fiction/non fiction. It's definitely a super important feminist book you should read to understand the world a bit more and to expand your mind on these things. It's a book about constructing identities and figuring out what things you want to take with
“I learned to make my mind large, as the universe is large, so that there is room for paradoxes.”
This was very very instructive, I can't tell you how many things I've learned about Chinese culture, myths and legends.
It's definitely a super important feminist book you should read to understand the world a bit more and to expand your mind on these things.
My only problem is that I wasn't invested in any of the stories nor the main character.
It is an empowering book with an important message and a big discussion on representation and diversity, but it just wasn't for me.
What confused me about the book was that the title calls it a memoir, but parts of it are fiction.
This made me think more about genre and how much imagination can go into a memoir, and how much of the author's real-life experience goes into fiction.
How much of life is real anyway?
The book blurred the line between memoir and fiction for me, but in a good way.
I thought it was fascinating to hear about the "Chinese half" of Maxing Hong-Kingston and the way she told these imaginative stories using figurative language.
I'm not sure that I've read anything quite like this book before.
A collection of five stories, memoirs, woven with Chinese folktales and all slightly different in their construction.
I can see why it doesn't quite fit into a specific genre.
I'd never heard of Maxine Hong Kingston until recently and although I think this text is taught text in America, I don't think it's well known in England.
I'm really glad that I discovered it though, as I was mesmerised by the different stories, learning about Maxine, her family, their lives in America as well as their earlier history in China.
The premise of China Men didn’t appeal to me as much and, perhaps because of that, it was slightly boring for me, but The Woman Warrior was a much better read now that I knew what to expect from Kingston.The Woman Warrior does what China Men did best, which is to blend and fuse fact with fiction with an expertise I’ve only experienced in Kingston’s novels.
At times Kingston, maybe simply for convenience, merges all Chinese together with certain attributes and I’m a bit doubtful of this approach.
While I can see why she plays with certain elements and stereotypes in China Men, since it’s tagged as mostly fictional, in The Woman Warrior however—a memoir, or so it is labeled—, it’s a bit unsettling.Regardless I can’t say this was not an enjoyable read.
I think it really conveyed the Chinese American experience in that it showed a world where people are trying to make their way in a new world while still tethered to tradition.
On the one hand, Hong describes the all reaching confucian patriarchy that shaped women's lives in China.
The way female infanticide, lack of formal education, foot binding, early marriage, rigid social norms played out in lives in China certainly limited the options of women yet they are portrayed as the title of the book suggests, warriors.
I think this book offers a really good description of the experience of being confronted with such choices.
The Woman Warrior combines Kingston's memoir of growing up in the U.S. the daughter of Chinese immigrants, her mother's story, and Chinese folklore and history.
My favorite chapter, "Shaman," tells the history of how her mother became a doctor of midwifery in China, and battled ghosts in a woman's dormitory.
It was hard to relate this independent ghost-fighting doctor with the mother Kingston describes, who belittled her daughters, though she's a warrior throughout.
Both Kingston and her mother are warriors, in very similar ways though they never see the similarities in one another.While I enjoyed this memoir, there were moments when it felt like Kingston was using her life to stand-in for the entire Chinese immigrant experience, and those generalities made me uneasy.
Read for uni. This was beautifully written, and I always thoroughly enjoy books that introduce me to other cultures. I think this is the first Chinese-American text I've encountered and I'm looking forward to studying it.I think the last story was my favourite. Something about the narrative voice and idea of speech and identity really stuck a chord with me. It was quite amazing.
This book kinda traumatized me.....very intense.
For me to respond so nonchalantly to something which has such immense importance for the person writing it makes me feel guilty for not relating and empathising more, but the truth is that I just didn't find this narrative very engaging.
I do genuinely feel bad for critiquing it on that ground because I know that Kingston in no way wrote this book for me; she wrote it for herself first and foremost, and I hope that writing was as therapeutic for her as the narrative of this book makes out it was.
