https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/199635.Fair_and_Tender_Ladies
Well, it’s so many things… it’s about the hopes and dreams of a young girl, love for family, courage, standing up for what you believe in, facing the consequences of your choices, middle age, great sorrow and abundant joy, love for the land, the passion for reading and writing, and about growing old with dignity.
"I have made my bed and I wish everybody would let me lie in it."We follow the life of Ivy Rowe from adolescence to old age through a series of letters written to various persons – a childhood pen pal, siblings, parents, friends, teachers, and children.
A devoted pen pal, a ‘forever’ devoted pen pal, a “I will remane forever I hope your devoted Pen friend”, a “I do not know wether you will recive this letter or not thogh I remane forever your devoted”, your devoted granddaughter, “I will not send this letter as I remane your hateful”, sharing ...”we are fine thogh and I remane your devoted”, forever always, your devoted Ivy Rowe, “I remane your exited and grateful”, forever best friend, devoted sister,.....“Oh Daddy I miss you so much do not think I am crazy because I feel they is something terible starting to happen and you know it is dog days so whatever it is will go on happening, but I remane your loving devoted daughter”, yor devoted friend, “But I miss Momma.
I have been in her heart and in her head for the last few days, and am now emerging with an inspired sense of just how wonderful life can be when you face it with awe and courage.Ivy was not a paragon of virtue by society's standards.
She followed her heart and her passions, never doing the sensible thing, though she was as smart as they came.
From a childhood with 8 brothers and siblings, on a farm way up high on Sugar Fork, through youth and marriage and motherhood and old age, we hear her opinions on everything she cares most about.
Set out in letters that begin with a twelve year old Ivy and take us through an entire lifetime, Ivy’s soul is put onto paper, sprinkled with all her hopes, dreams and disappointments.
There just isn’t anywhere like Blue Star Mountain anymore.I have sometimes thought that my own life has a soundtrack.
Apparently, Ivy Rowe’s life had a soundtrack as well.
Ivy dreams of a bigger life, one filled with purpose and travel and adventure, but she finds hers is destined to be a rather simple life, lived primarily at Sugar Fork and circling around a small community and a limited number of people.
Years ago I saw a movie called Songcatcher about a woman named Lily who "ventures into the most isolated areas of the mountains to collect songs and finds herself increasingly enchanted—not only by the rugged purity of the music, but also by the raw courage and endurance of the local people as they carve out meaningful lives against the harshest conditions” (quote from film review).
More recently I have enjoyed reading about American Appalachia, past and present, through the writing of author Ron Rash.
Fortunately, all this has supplanted the only other image of the area and its people I had originally been exposed to in the movie Deliverance.
”Baby when I get down I turn to youAnd you make sense of what I doI know it isn't hard to sayBut baby just when this world seems mean and coldOur love comes shining red and goldAnd all the rest is by the way“Why worry, there should be laughter after painThere should be sunshine after rainThese things have always been the sameSo why worry now”--  Why Worry, Emmylou Harris, Mark Knopfler, Songwriters: Mark Knopfler”Oh Ivy, sing ivory, rosebud and thorn…”An epistolary novel, this story is told through letters from young Ivy, beginning around her 12th year, to pen pals, family and friends.

Lee Smiths beautiful prose in this story told through the letters of Ivy Rowe made my heart and mind sing with nostalgia.
Having come from a family of strong midwestern pioneers, and having lived in the mountains of rural Tennessee and North Carolina that mimic the setting of this story I appreciated how on target Smith was in her descriptions of the people, the traditions, the lore of this generation.
We learned about not only Ivy's life but that of her family as well through these letters.
The focus is a family, the family of Ivy Rowe.
Ivy thought she would become a writer, but she never did.
Yet she did, in her own way, because what we are reading are her letters to friends and those in her family.
Her whole life is told through these letters.
I would never have trusted only letters to friends and family, because don’t we hide stuff from each other?!What is so special about this book is- the writing.
Ivy expresses herself simply and honestly and beautifully.
Gorgeous writing about rural places - mountains and creeks and hollers.
But Ivy has a zest for life, an unceasing curiosity, a drive for education, an outsized love of nature and a passion for writing.
We meet her in 1915 when she is twelve and we get to know about her life through the letters she writes over the years to a handful of family and friends.
Ivy doesn’t just live life, she sees life and from this seeing comes a deep knowing.
I felt as if I were sitting on the front porch up there on the mountain with Ivy as she told me the story of her life.
She's spunky, she makes mistakes, she loves, she lives, she's stubborn, she's wrong sometimes; in short, she just feels real to me in a way that very few characters do.
Oh, I write fairly often about how I love this or that character, but Ivy feels like someone I know.
I live a whole other lifetime when I read this book.Lee Smith chose to have Ivy write in our southern Appalachian dialect and she gets it just absolutely perfect.
This is an exceptional epic story of Appalachia in the 20th century written entirely as letters to people in Ivy's life.
The vernacular put me off just a bit at first but then I settled in to sit a spell with Ivy and her family and neighbors.
Ivy loved learning and reading and while she doesn't break from her roots she does somewhat rise above it.
I can make up my own life now whichever way I want to, it is like I am a girl again, for I am not beholden to a soul.
I think that maybe I love Ivy Rowe more than any character I've read.
Ivy believes she yearns to see the world, but as her life progresses and she has opportunities to escape the poverty of her Appalachian upbringing, she discovers that the pull of home and family are stronger than that of travel and adventure.
Her life is hard; the story could be depressing.
If you ever get an opportunity to see the play and hear the bluegrass songs inspired by the book, I advise you to grab it.
Lee Smith’s Fair and Tender Ladies portrays better than any other book I have ever read, the hopes and joys, and trials and tribulations of a life spent in the hills and hollows of Appalachia.
My thanks to Miss Scarlett (Diane Barnes) and the folks at the  On the Southern Literary Trail group for giving me the opportunity to read and discuss this and many other fine books.
I confess that I did not intend to read this book but this stellar review by our fearless moderator, Lawyer, changed my mind.
In closing, Fair and Tender Ladies receives my highest recommendation.
The book is penned by Ivy Rowe in letters to various friends and relatives, beginning with her preteen years during the WWI era.
Her family lives isolated on Sugar Mountain and her father is ill and passes away, leaving her mother struggling to manage their farm, and often relying on the kindness of relatives and neighbors to put food on the table.
After her mother passes away when Ivy is 18, she goes to live with one of her older sisters in a mining town.
After a mining disaster, Ivy marries and returns to Sugar Mountain for the rest of her life.
I borrowed this book from the library of the mountain town where Lee Smith grew up--my first library book in quite a while.
She is raised in the hollers of the mountains by a father who is too sick to work, and a mother who gave up a comfortable life to raise a family.
Luckily, a teacher mentors her and through her fascination with books, she learns to read and write.
At first glance, you're caught off track because the book is in letter form, as Ivy is writing to a pen-pal, to a teacher, and later to her sister who is taken off to a mental ward.
We discover her story and the stories of those she loves and those she doesn't through the letters Ivy writes to family and friends over much of her life.The New York Times called "Fair and Tender Ladies" Lee Smith's most fully realized novel to date (1988), and they got that right.
Not only is Ivy fully realized, but the people of the Appalachian Mountains and the changes that fell upon them during the 20th century are too.
This is an under-read, must-read American classic, in my opinion, and more of Lee Smith's work has risen to the top of my to-read stack because of it.
This novel is one of my favorite books of all time.
Polly Hollar gave it to me in college with two lines from the book inscribed in the cover: "Slow down, slow down, this is the taste of spring" and "I have walked in my body like a queen." It's an epistolary book that appears as a compilation of all the letters written by a poor Appalachian woman named Ivy Rowe throughout her lifetime.
Throughout these letters, you learn how strikingly intelligent and provocative this seemingly common woman's life is.
The affair with the bee man is still my favorite part.
A delightful and thought provoking novel about the life and times of feisty Ivy Rowe as told in personal letters written from her early childhood to old age. Hailing from Sugarfork Farm in the mountains of Virginia she imparts a lot of life lessons from having lived as a strong, sometimes unconventional, woman who followed a life path predominately dictated by her own conscience. A book republished 3 times since it's first printing in 1988, and one that really needs to be rediscovered !!Read for On The Southern Literary Trail 3/18 5 stars
This is an epistolary novel (meaning the story is told through letters written by a character in the story) which I hadn’t realized until I started reading it.
Telling the story through Ivy’s letters was a smart move – it made the story so real and vivid and authentic.
I’ll think back on this book when times are tough, and realize that things aren’t really as bad as they seem, since others have had it so much worse.
I recommend that as a follow-up to this book.)
There is not one specific antagonist or event that this novel is centered on, instead it is centered on the heroine, Ivy Rowe, and the events of her life as they unfold through letters she writes to family and friends.
Ivy's life is neither perfect nor tragic.
Also, like in a real life, her life does not turn out the way she planned but it still seems to turn out for the best.Bottom Line: If this book were a movie it would be rated PG-13 for some adult themes, there are references to sex throughout, but nothing graphic.
The main character and letter writer, Ivy Rowe, was a poor Appalachian girl who began writing letters to her teacher about her life and family.
Ivy had very little schooling, like most of the people in her community, but she possessed a fierce desire to learn.
Through her letters to family and friends, we watch Ivy grow.
Especially in Ivy’s letters to her sister Silvany where Ivy bared her heart and soul.Fair and Tender Ladies might go down as one of my favorite Appalachian stories.
I love the lost art of letter writing.
Lee Smith’s book of letters from Ivy Rowe is worthy.
I thought I would really like this because of what I thought it would be about and because it got good reviews overall, which really mystifies me.
This novel starts out in the 30s in the Appalachian Mountains.
I expected that I would read about a heartwarming community of mountain people who had it rough but helped each other through the tough times.
I never connected to the main character like I had hoped, and I could tell that it was only going to get worse.
So many of the women in this story act in a way that I wouldn't have imagined women in the 30s to act like.
This was a long story of Ivy Rowe’s life.
There are so many points of wisdom in it to be absorbed at future stages in my life.
I guess though I loved this book the very most because it put me in mind of my mom and my sister that Ivy seems to be an exact cross between.
And I love them so much that I cannot help but love this book the same.
Now I must get them to read it too and they will not see themselves in Ivy Rowe even though she is them and I suppose that will be fine.
Almost all of my Goodreads friends have fairly raved about this novel. While I enjoyed it, I come away tired after reading a life overflowing with poverty and hard work. The many references to nature which the main character loved were refreshing and my favorite part. I was immersed for an entire afternoon in the Appalachian Virginia hills. The book holds many layers and would make for rich discussion. Ultimately, what brings happiness?
The richness of detail about mountain life, the deep understanding of the people and their ways and thoughts, and above all the portrayal of the changes that the modern world has inflicted on a proud people are woven into the stories.The Friends of the Library in Floyd, with the Virginia Foundation for the Humanities, is hosting a wonderful series of author talks entitled "Celebrate the Past/Look to the Future".
Lee Smith has captured these stories in the pages of her novels, speaking with tender understanding of the mountain people that are so often misrepresented and ridiculed.
I think one mark of a really good author is, when referring to a long lost character, the ability with a few words to remind the reader how they fit into the story earlier.The thing I loved most about this book was her description of her mountain home and the people there.
She passes up a chance to leave home and get a real education, which I understand, What doesn't make sense is what a big swath of her life and her children's lives are spent without books.
one last thing: she leaves her home and family when she's 40 to follow a man for lust.
Not a fatally flawed protagonist whose actions drive the plot in a tragic manner, just a twit who reacts poorly to Things That Happen.Turned it off halfway once it officially lost Friend's Favorite Book status, but I sought it out afterwards in paperback because I hate leaving things unfinished.Yup, Ivy's still a twit.In fairness, The Lacuna was also a bad choice for an audiobook.
My bad.See also: why World War Z and A Series of Unfortunate Events rereads (re-listens?) are road trip staples for me and my husband.
And I was not disappointed, right down to the last word of the book.The story is told via letters to friends/family from Ivy Rowe, who starts out as a young girl in the mountains of Appalachia.
The letters and the language and descriptions are so well done, you cannot help but feel that Ivy is a real person and not just a character in this book.
The author obviously did alot of research to get the accuracy correct, down to the gospel songs and backwoods stories, which I appreciated; and in doing so, this book in turn made me appreciate my own family history and stories.
I will be reading this book again.
Lee Smith’s novel, ‘Fair and Tender Ladies,’ exceeds both ‘fair’ and ‘tender.
It is a gently told, very readable and enjoyable ‘family history’ of the really hardscrabble life of deep Appalachia—from dirt-poor dirt farming to lung-crushing coal mining—during the first-half of the twentieth century.
The literary device of telling the story exclusively through the moving letter writing of its main character, Ivy Rowe, is very effective.
It gives the tale the gossipy, warm and personal feel of a genuine oral history.
Recommendation: Read ‘Fair and Tender Ladies’ to experience the feel of real ‘down-homey-times,’ in the hills and hollers of Appalachia.
