https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/322617.Twin_of_Ice
It's actually a pretty sweet story and has some elements I love.A hero who comes from a lower class background and makes it big, yet is still that working class guy and fears people only want him for his money.
A heroine born to privilege and very much repressed by her place/role in society until she meets the hero.A marriage of convenience that becomes a love match.Also, a hero with a nefarious ulterior motive for wanting the heroine and a ruthless streak when it comes to keeping her was the icing on the cake.The hero was exactly like a real man kind of a clueless doofus much of the time, but endearing.
Great! Just great! ❤❤❤
I really loved this one up until the end, when the problems with the mines overtook the romance and the hero was still reluctant to trust the heroine's feelings for him. It has the usual Deveraux feeling where the hero is a little rough around the edges and the heroine's as far away from a doormat as can be. People who enjoy older styled romances will enjoy this.
I remember it fondly & re-read it at least once a year.
:( This story appears to be set in the early 1900's, although it's never really stated for sure.
Apparently she has the morals of an alley cat, but I have to read her story again after this one, so I'll have to do her review later.
Basically, the twins trade places for an evening & Blair steals the fiance ( after sleeping with him - gasp!) Kane is the rich guy in town who decides that Houston is pretty enough & a LADY.
The whole story goes downhill pretty fast.
Read for Fun (Library)Overall Rating: 5.00Story Rating: 5.00Character Rating: 5.00First Thought when Finished:Twin of Ice by Jude Deveraux is one of those reads that never get old no matter how many times I have read it!Quick Thoughts: I originally read this the summer after I turned 16.
Kane Taggert was my first Romance Book crush!
Twin of Ice by Jude Deveraux can still manage to give me all the feels even though my adult self wanted to perhaps "head swat" Kane a few times.
Nothing beats Nostalgic Feels and Reads!
;)Part of my Read It, Rate It, File It, DONE!
From Ice to SteamWell I am off to buy the second half of this incredible duology, Twin of Fire.
This was a very different story and I was very pleased with the results of the twin sisters switching places for that one event, even though I see some readers have condemned Houston's sister for going to far with her fiancee.
Her explanation was reasonable and the results understandable.
I found the dynamics between Houston and her millionaire husband to be fascinating.
This is illustrated when her ex-fiancee calls her a Ice Princess, her husband replies -What do you get when you apply enough heat to ice, steam.
In general, I've liked the plot of several of Deveraux's books.
But by the time I finish reading them, I'm almost always left wondering "what the hell did I just waste my time on?".
It's taken me a dozen or so books, but I've finally realized that Deveraux does not know how to end a story.
I'm sure I'll read more of her works (to get my guilty pleasure fix!), and I'm sure when I'm done I'll again ask myself "what the hell did I just waste my time on?".
one of first romance novels I ever read. really enjoyed reading this and the counterpart "Twin of Fire" as it tells the same story from different view points.
Houston finds she actually likes him and marries him in a double-wedding with her sister and the guy who cheated on her.Riiiiiight.Seriously, this stuff should have been soooo cheesy (right down to the off-handed remark on Kane's part about purchasing part of a company that makes a drink called Coca-Cola), but I loved the absolute crap out of every minute of it.
(hide spoiler)]So I wasn't terribly curious about Blair and Lee's story based on their book's summary, but I sort of am now.
I am going to write the same thing for the Taggart and Montgomery series of Jude Deveraux.
And second, and more importantly, I devoured them all!
By the time we got home, I had already called the library and asked them to reserve all of the Taggart and Montgomery series books they had!
I devoured them all and loved them?
Here's the funny thing - I have never read any more Deveraux since that time (not even the last Taggart book or the last two Montgomery books).
I can still vividly remember scenes from the books I read so many years ago!
My favorite of the twin booksI have reread this one many times.
I find I still love it.
my favorite of the twin books.
Love It. I love Kane and how he has a heart of gold but it's hidden behind this gruff exterior and few see it.
I will say I've reread this one many times but I rarely reread Twin of Fire.
I would suggest you read TWIN OF ICE before TWIN OF FIRE but again TWIN OF FIRE is not my favorite of the set and I rarely reread it.
Fans of great romances are in for a great time.
Was hoping for a contemporary, but turned out to be historical. Deveraux had written an anthology including the Taggerts and I hoped this would be within the same family during the same time period. About two twin sisters. One has been engaged to her fiance since they were little, the other chose to pursue a profession in medicine. Three weeks before Houston's wedding she asks her sister for a favor that will turn both their worlds upsidedown. The consequences have the potential to tear their family apart.I always love Deveraux's characters and stories and this one is no exception.
una historia fascinante, hay que leer la saga para completar los blancos que deja una y otra, MUY INTERESANTE!!!! Yo leí primero "hermana de Fuego", y me parece que ese sería el orden correcto.
Amazing book. I can read it over and over. Though Kane is a little if a basta*d, but it is forgivable.
An enjoyable romance that made me chuckle repeatedly. I'm looking forward to the other half of the book Twin of Fire.
This is one of my favorite books. I love Kane and Houston, and the way the realize their love for each other.
first of all, a huge THANK U to my friend Janani who gave me this bookwoman, u knw my tastes well ! :)i now see y a lot of women r in love with Jude Deverauxshe sure knows how to weave magic!
Written in 1985, during a decade where "no" frequently got heard as "yes" even in romance novels, Twin of Ice follows the story of Houston Chandler, whose decision to change places with her twin sister for one night in order to accept a dinner invitation from Kane Taggert, the mysterious stable-boy turned millionaire whose gigantic house looms over their small Colorado town, up-ends her life.
he fell in love with his uncle's (the adopted son) daughter, Pamela, - and when she became pregnant, he sent her away to marry someone else, and gave Kane $500 and told him to leave...and with that $500 he went to california, bought a failing gold mine, mined a few thousand dollars, bought some land in San Francisco, and sold it for twice what he bought it for, etc....
until Kane invites Fenton to dinner, and tells her the stark story - she feels used, and leaves him...
Interesting view of an 1892 young lady, sent to a finishing school to learn to be a wife, afraid to do anything out of the normal except in secret, who meets a heavily bearded, rich man raised without education or money who wants a lady to wed.
Houston has her hands full dealing with him.
Most of the time I was on her side, but what I really learned was that those finishing schools that I scoffed at growing up teach a lot that is needed to run a home - how to get out stains, how to organize and run major events, how to deal with sticky problems that could cause guests humiliation or shame, and on and on.
Houston and Blair are combining their bachelorette party and Edan is a witness to it---Kane is worried about the womenfolk being alone in that big house.
...it's got to be about Blair!The StoryAn introduction to Houston/Sadie's unionist activities is followed up by the scandal of the town of Chandler---the megalith of a house bigger 'n anything in town, especially Jacob Fenton's place.
Houston has ever been the ice princess with Lee and it seems that Blair has a lot more fire in her.The CharactersHouston Chandler is the demure twin, but she's also masquerading as the ancient, team-driving Sadie delivering vegetables and medicines to the families of the miners.
We're 80s popular romances written with soap opera storytelling structure in mind?I appreciate that there are many modern romance writers, who write historical romance, who are better at cutting back on the extraneous melodrama in favor of nothing but the most absolute important high points, and that they work to make the moments of opposition feel authentic.The mysterious hints at what is happening with Blair and Lee in the simultaneously occurring plot of Twin of Fire were distracting and pointed ("well, you'll just have to read the other book to find out!").Points for melodrama and an authentic feel in time and place, negative marks for lack of believable and satisfying character growth and dubious structuring of the storytelling.
So Leander (wretched name) decides he would rather have the twin that slept with him (LOL, shocking) and he tells her father who forces her to marry him.So her sister is engaged to her fiance WTF...and everyone acts more shocked when wait for it...Houston gets engaged to Kane (big house) to look less ridiculous and because she is more attracted to him (maybe) in like one day.
And all the other characters who are terrible look down on him.FYI:I hate almost everyone in the book.Houston is snotty jerk.
I would have liked to have given it 4 stars but I didn't like the ending.
They should have just called either of them Miss Chandler, using their last name, which would have been more appropriate.On another note, depending on which website and list you look at, it differs as to which book in the set you're to read first.
Seeing as I found both characters annoying in this book, there is no reason to read their love story, which I've already read mind you from the other twins point of view, from their point of view.
(Totally should have been a 4 star read - but that ending!
But my 2 previous reads were total duds, and you can't fall out of a ditch, right?
So off I went with zero expectations and met Houston and Kane.
This book is sort of set in the old west (it says it is at least).
She's a little vulnerable at the moment.
Houston was in there like a trooper - constantly dealing with Kane's dumb ass.
There were adorable little dramas in unexpected spots.
I read this book in one reading bc i didn't want to put it down.
Another fantastic historical romance by Jude Deveraux.
Twins living in Chandler, Colorado in the 19th century each find love in the most unlikely places.
But when her fiancee dumps her for her twin sister, the whole town laughs at her.
But secrets soon come to the surface and Kane reveals his true intention about why he married Houston.
She loves him but will the secrets tear them apart?
I love this story and Houston is one of my favorite Jude Deveraux characters!
If you like historical romance with strong main characters and a hint of suspense, you'll love Twin of Ice!
She set her sights on Leander when she was six and now she's going to marry him.
But when the opportunity to see Kane Taggert's house presents itself, she convinces her twin Blair to switch places.
Mr Taggart has a proposition for Houston, he offers marriage and his house to her.
When she explains that she's already engaged, Kane lets her go for now.
But when she discovers that Blair slept with Lee and Lee now wants to marry her, Houston decides to take Kane up on his offer.
I read this three years ago so forgive my memory.
However, I could never forget how the book made me feel, which is, next to nothing.WHAT I LOVE ABOUT THE BOOKThe only thing that I could possibly adore was the heroine's kindness.
She was gentle, warm and patient, in a way that melted your heart.
However, that stops there.WHAT I HATED ABOUT THE BOOKI had no sympathy for the heroine and the hero's brashness just make me want to kick his behind all the way.
The plot was entirely stupid and I can remember thinking that too.
En Chandler, Colorado, Houston es la más bella de las mujeres y obsesiona a todos los hombres en el pueblo minero.
Pero bajo su dulce apariencia Houston oculta enormes secretos.Su prometido, el doctor Lee Westfield la llama "Princesa de hielo", sin embargo esta mujer ha movido a todo un grupo de dulces mujeres en pro de los derechos de los mineros.
Sin embargo hay un hombre que se cruza en su camino y que termina por hechizarla, a pesar de la apariencia de bárbaro que tiene: Kane Taggert.
Aquí esta el Taggert que hacía falta.
ahhh well wasn't that a treat !
though this is suppose to be the first of the series I would recommend reading second...definitely on my top 10 favorite books ever !
I loved Blair and Leander, mostly because I thought Houston would be to frigid and boring for me...but oh my was I wrong.
Houston and Kane have this fire, this passion..and Jude writes and describes it oh so well it makes you jealous...and its definitely wayyyy more funny.
The things this one tamed, prim and proper young lady does for the man she loves is just wild.
Read it..Jude never disappoints.
