https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36236124-fight-club
She changed her name to George Eliot and wrote as a "gender neutral" narrator, highly educated and worldly, and mostly transparent (i.e., not silly).The 1990s finds us again at a crossroads where literature is concerned, with the rise of Oprah's book club and the whole genre of "chick lit" on the one hand (in many cases just "silly novels by lady novelists" revivified), and a sort of phallic-anxiety heavy-on-the-masculine literature on the other.
Some of these are done well, and some of them are just as silly as the lady novelists' claptrap.Fight Club is one of those novels where the unrelenting GUY-ness of narrator and storyline begins as an intriguing challenge and ends up fatiguing and gimmicky.
Following the success of its 1999 film adaptation directed by David Fincher, Fight Club gained cult classic status and has become a disturbingly accurate interpretation of our modern world.The unnamed male narrator, suffering from a long streak of insomnia, finds cure by attending cancer support groups.
They agree to meet at a bar, where, after drinking, Durden asks him a favor, “I want you to hit me as hard as you can.” The narrator swings the punch that cradled Fight Club into the world.
I wondered whether this book would seem self-absorbed and shallow in our post-9/11 world, but instead I found it prophetic.
Throughout the materialism and political correctness of the 1990's and Tyler Durden's response to it, you can sense how all that repressed mama's boy machismo is just hoping and praying for something big and fiery and nasty that would blow our little precious world apart.
Well, with 9/11 and the Iraq war, we sure got it.
are all you boys satisfied now?
Sure, this book has its flaws.
Also, for such a hard-edged book, it gets surprisingly (and disappointingly) sentimental at the end.Still .
I had nebulous thoughts and that writer succinctly stated, set down in black and white, what for me was pre-language thought only.Chuck Palahniuk’s Fight Club is another, and Palahniuk speaks for a generation; he boils down and dilutes what we all want to say but felt only.
The primal fears and drives that we know deep down but before this book could give no voice; Palahniuk has found a pigment to paint on our collective cave wall.
Palahniuk goes to great length, albeit subtle, to reveal that much of what is felt and experienced in Fight Club is either beyond or beneath language, inexpressible.
I simply do not like your style of writing, and I have been ridiculed by fanboys who will defend your honor to the grave.
Your style comes off as unique, but I can feel the pretentiousness like a piece of meat stuck in between my teeth.
(You wake up in Miami.
That I do not understand the basics of a male love story, a male writer who understands the male psyche and who can convey what it really feels like to be, a male.
Maybe someday I will swallow my pride and appeal to the masses just like you.
Then he meets a mysterious man named Tyler Durden and establishes an underground fighting club as radical psychotherapy.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و ششم ماه می سال 2011 میلادیعنوان: باشگاه مشت زنی؛ نویسنده: چاک پالانیک؛ مترجم: پیمان خاکسار؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر چشمه، 1390، در 230 ص، شابک: 9789643627379؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20مداستان با این جملات آغاز می‌شود: تایلر یک شغل پیشخدمتی برایم پیدا می‌کند، و بعد تفنگی در دهانم می‌چپاند، و می‌گوید که: اولین قدم برای رسیدن به جاودانگی مردن است.
او پس از این که در گروه‌های مختلف روان‌ درمانی گروهی، نقش فردی بسیار بیمار را بازی می‌کند، آرامش می‌یابد و از بی‌خوابی نجات پیدا می‌کند.
1st rule about Fight Club is read the novel first! Well thats my rule, i watched the movie, when it came out years ago (most the population) and only now discovered the real Fight club.The narrator is a traveling automobile company employee who suffers from insomnia. On advice from his doctor attends support groups and pretends to be a victim. He gains some emotional release here and feels part of a people and becomes addicted to attending these support groups as an imposter. He's not the only
Well thats my rule, i watched the movie, when it came out years ago (most the population) and only now discovered the real Fight club.The narrator is a traveling automobile company employee who suffers from insomnia.
Tyler eventually gathers the most devoted fight club members (referred to as "space monkeys") and forms "Project Mayhem," a cult-like organization that trains itself as an army to bring down modern civilization.
This Organization, like fight club, is controlled by a set of rules:1.You don't ask questions.2.You don't ask questions.3.No excuses.4.No lies.5.You have to trust Tyler.The narrator becomes unhappy with Tyler's extremities and a battle for power and control ignites literally.
There are 6 rules in the fight club.
First rule: you don't talk about the fight club.
Second rule: you don't talk about the fight club.
Fifth rule: no shoes, no shirts in the fight club.
The sixth rule: the fight goes on as long as they have to.
This is their way of turning down the volume in the real world.
A subculture of violence trying to correct all the wrongs in the world with the most primitive emotion and passion that exists: hate.
What one may interpret as a mind blowing, head shaking, wtf is going on: let the fights begin!
The great depression is our lives.
The quote I remembered most explicity, even years after reading Fight Club is this one:"What you have to understand, is your father was your model for God. If you're male and you're Christian and living in America, your father is your model for God. And if you never know your father, if your father bails out and dies or is never at home, what do you believe about God?" I'm waiting for another book to come along that will speak as loudly to me about modern day malaise.
It'll be fun." He acts in secret, he has an army of minions, and he has a plan.Oh yes, you know Tyler Durden.The narrator of this dark and strange cautionary tale knows Tyler all too well, and tells us of how he and Tyler tried to change the world.
Weak.But Tyler's plan doesn't end there - the fight clubs morph into Project Mayhem, a well-oiled anarchist movement, determined to bring down the very fundamentals of our society.
Bulgarian review below/Ревюто на български е по-долу Since I began marching in step with the people who (try to) earn their daily bread (and fruits and vegetables too), I take the subject of the forsaken rank-and-file employee in a crappy office to heart and it’s quite painful for me. Is there anyone who haven’t made the discovery that nothing makes you go off your wits as surely as a job that suffocates you? We all dwell in the miniature boxes of our lives and offices so we can successfully sq
Yes, that’s right – in order to buy stuff we don’t need with money we don’t have to impress people we don’t like.Too many human beings live their lives as in a dream.
Of that future when even the sleeping cocoons have realized that something has to change.‘We are the middle children of history, raised by television to believe that someday we'll be millionaires and movie stars and rock stars, but we won't.
We’ve forgotten to do humane things.
Да, точно така – за да си купим неща, които не ни трябват, с пари, които нямаме, така че да можем да впечатлим хора, които не харесваме.Твърде много човешки същества живеят живота си като насън.
However, there was one element that the film essentially stripped from the story which I was pleased to find fully intact in the novel: Marla Singer actually has a personality.
In doing so, the novel actually makes sense in explaining why this quirky girl is something worth causing a whole lot of trouble for, such as blowing half of your face off or ratting out a worldwide, powerful, underground militia of men who all know your face and feel obliged to chop your nuts off for doing so.
And I never thought I would read the book, but I needed to read this author for a challenge and decided to make it his most famous book.
Justifiably famous because it was really good!The writing is excellent and action packed.
Not having seen the movie I was also unprepared for the magnificent twist although I had started to get a bit suspicious that something odd was occurring.The characters are all equally awful and there are some really gruesome scenes but it was all to the point and necessary for the book's objectives.
[Updated 9/11/17]---For several months, I've mused over a question on Fight Club, to-wit:   Did this 1996 novel presage, two decades on, the election of a populist POTUS who could stir the hornet's nest of white, middle class, male Gen X'ers--such as those in the Fight Club--out of their malaise to smack those they see as effete elitists and paternalistic bureaucrats?   If I had a background in political science or a lot of free time, I would dive into the fray.Original ReviewGeneration X Gladia
If I had a background in political science or a lot of free time, I would dive into the fray.Original ReviewGeneration X Gladiators and Their Quest for Identity and Meaning (Twelve-Stepping Middle Class White Male Melancholia?)
He then somehow meets Tyler Durden, a cinema projectionist, waiter and anarchist, who he describes as "funny and forceful and independent, and men look up to him and expect him to change their world." He moves in with Tyler after an explosive device destroys his apartment.Together they start a Fight Club where white collar guys get together on weekends to pummel one another then show up at work on Mondays covered in bruise with some teeth loose.
total mind fuck.
I think it's more a 3,5* I don't know what I expected but it sure wasn't what I got!
(Yeah shame on me, I actually did not see the movie up until a day after finishing this book) Tbh the big plot twist towards the end of the book wasn't that big of a twist to me.
PS: I watched the movie the day after I finished this and I can't really say what I enjoyed more.
"We've all been raised on television to believe that one day we'd all be millionaires, and movie gods, and rock stars. But we won't. And we're slowly learning that fact. And we're very, very pissed off."  I can't write a detailed review, for obvious reasons. Why does everyone break the first rule of fight club??
The book that inspired the iconic Brad Pitt/Edward Norton film from 1999 is a wild ride every bit as gritty and crazy as the movie.
I think the reveal comes a bit early in the book and that the movie actually did a better job of covering up the real identity of Tyler Durden.
I thought the writing was OK, it did not inspire me to read any other Palahniuk books.
I guess his style is like a mashup of DFW on acid channeling Michel Houellebecq or something like that.Perhaps someone reading this review can answer a question for me: is Bret Easton Ellis' writing style similar to that of Palahniuk?
I did not dislike this book because I did not understand this book. I disliked this book because I have fundamental ideological disagreements with this book.I'm sure we all know this quote:  You are not a beautiful and unique snowflake. You are the same decaying, organic matter as everyone else, and we are all part of the same compost pile.  ...I think this is just a really dumb way of looking at the world. The complaints about consumerism are one thing, even though they all sound like this SNL
Fight Club is that one weird nihilistic asshole who thinks the apocalypse is coming because consumerism, or political correctness, or something, he’s not quite sure what, and also he makes fun of everyone for having joy in their life.
Here's why this bothers me: I’m sure you’re all aware that’s a terrible way of looking at life, but I think we do, genuinely, as a society, romanticize an idea of giving up and no longer caring.
I mean, I’m sure this was a revolutionary idea twenty years ago, that none of us are special and consumerism is killing America so therefore, posessions are bad, and our current generation is awful for blah blah blah reasons.
“It's only after we've lost everything that we're free to do anything.” Can somebody slap me in the face? I've had this on my tbr list since I first set up a goodreads account and I read it now after almost 3 years. Why didn't anyone make me read this? It was freakish-ly amazing. I am at a loss for words..I don't know how to talk about the book without giving away spoilers and breaking the first rule of Fight Club: "You do not talk about Fight Club.".. I can only say that the narrator is a trou
I've had this on my tbr list since I first set up a goodreads account and I read it now after almost 3 years.
Why didn't anyone make me read this?
I am at a loss for words..I don't know how to talk about the book without giving away spoilers and breaking the first rule of Fight Club: "You do not talk about Fight Club."..
I can only say that the narrator is a troubled person with lots of stress and confussion and anger towards the world, so he copes with it in a very special manner.Take me on my word and read this if you haven't already, you have no idea what you're missing out on.
Never judge a book by its shitty cover, just finish and then judge it.Will give an updated review of
I wanna start it all over right now.
What have I been doing with my time?Well this book came out when I was sixteen and at that time, I have to admit Chuck, I was mostly trying to disappear up my own ass by reading things like Milan Kundera's The Unbearable Lightness of Being and On the Road by Kerouac.It's not easy to get angsty when you're...well...
I would definitely read this.Anyway I liked Fight Club a lot.
Pretty graphic, but very well-written. Also, thanks to this book, I now know how to make a bomb out of orange juice and window cleaner. I also know that men are completely insane.
Nothing can piss you off.Even the one tiny drawback -Since fight club, I can wiggle half the teeth in my jaw.- really isn't that big a deal compared to how great fight club makes you feel.My printing of this book comes with Palahniuk's introduction - an interesting read in itself, and a real eye-opener.
READ CHAPTER SIX!It's a great feeling.(And you get to keep all your teeth.)
The words roll around in the head and make us THINK about our role in the modern consumer society: Who am I?
I understand but disagree, I do not think that the content/context narrows a woman's ability to "get" the meaning.
I GOT the meaning of the aggression, I GOT the tension that one feels wriggling in the box society has fashioned for us.I GOT the nauseous feeling thinking about our existence in a world where passive aggressive interaction is the norm.
on purpose...because it's easier than looking at the Self.Chuck Palahniuk and Tom Robbins are the men of my generation that tapped into our need for a modern mythos and initiation rituals.
On sale (save 62%) -> http://amzn.to/1BiVwcq $2.991/17/2015MORAL OF THE STORY -> GET SOME SLEEP! THE RULES OF FIGHT CLUB: 1st RULE: You do not talk about FIGHT CLUB.2nd RULE: You DO NOT talk about FIGHT CLUB.3rd RULE: If someone says "stop" or goes limp, taps out the fight is over.4th RULE: Only two guys to a fight.5th RULE: One fight at a time.6th RULE: No shirts, no shoes.7th RULE: Fights will go on as long as they have to.8th RULE: If this is your first night at FIGHT CLUB, you HAVE to
After bombarding Kim with all my questions I began searching online for answers and I learned that this was actually a book first and the ending in the book differs from the movie (but had the same general gist of the story).
You save my life, then you cook my mother into soap.” Okay, I know it’s a far stretch for me to say that there is a love story within this disturbing book but even people with mental health issues can love someone.
If you’ve read the book or seen the movie you’ll get it.
Sólo después de haberlo perdido todo —dice Tyler— eres libre para hacer cualquier cosa Voy a necesitar tiempo para procesarlo...
"ما بچه وسطى هاى تاريخيم.از بچگى تلويزيون به خورد ما داده كه بالاخره يه روزى ميليونر و هنرپيشه و ستاره ى راك مى شيم.ولى هيچ وقت نمى شيم و ما تازه داريم اينو مى فهميم."من دارم، پس هستمبيش از يك قرن از قانون لغو بردگى مى گذرد؛ قانونى كه متضمن آزادى هر انسانى از زير يوغ بندگى و بهره كشى سودجويان بود.
اما مسئله اينجاست كه بردگى به معناى واقعى لغو نشد، بلكه مانند انرژى، فقط از شكلى به شكل ديگر تغيير پيدا كرد.
امروزه بردگى خودخواسته در جريان است."روزى خواهم مرد و يك خانه و اتومبيل خوشگل از من باقى خوا
باشگاه از هر صنف و طبقه اى عضو دارد و محدوديت و قانونى در كار نيست.‏"در باشگاه مشت زنى شما با كسى كه مى جنگيد هيچ مشكل شخصى نداريد؛ مى جنگيد كه بجنگيد"سپس معلوم مى شود كه باشگاه مشت زنى، در واقع مكانى بوده كه انسان هاى عاصى را براى مرحله ى نهايى آماده مى كرد؛ پروژه ى مِيهم كه هرج و مرج و دنياى جديدى را نويد مى دهد.‏"فاجعه، جزئى طبيعى از تكامل من در راه تراژدى و از هم پاشيدگى است."‏امريكايىمى توان گفت كه سبك نوشتار اين رمان، به لحاظ خلاصه گويى و همچنين بى پرده گويى به لحن بوكوفسكى بسيار نزديك است؛در ضمن نوع خاصى از روايت در داستان به كار رفته كه شديدا نوآورانه و جذاب است.
بذارید همین اول بهتون بگم؛ این کتاب شاهکارهدقیقا چه توقعی از یه شاهکار دارید؟ توی این کتاب اون توقعات به طور کامل برطرف میشه و حتا یه چند مرحله هم ازش فراتر میره. اصلا میتونم بعد از این وقتی یه کتاب شاهکار خوندم به جای اینکه بگم این کتاب شاهکاره بگم این کتاب باشگاه مشتزنیهمن رسماً عاشق راوی این کتاب شدم. تایلر دردن؟ خب اونم برای خودش خیلی خوبه اما با راوی بیشتر همذات پنداری کردم. راوی برام قابل درک بود. راوی معمولی بود. یه معمولیِ جذاباگه بخوام بدون فاش شدن داستان نظرم رو بگم باید بگم که در عین
بذارید همین اول به‌تون بگم؛ این کتاب شاهکارهدقیقا چه توقعی از یه شاهکار دارید؟ توی این کتاب اون توقعات به طور کامل برطرف می‌شه و حتا یه چند مرحله هم ازش فراتر می‌ره.
یه معمولیِ جذاباگه بخوام بدون فاش شدن داستان نظرم رو بگم باید بگم که در عین نداشتن یه فرم خاص، به اون شکل که فرمالیست‌ها بهش پایبندن این کتاب تعلیق و کشش فوق‌العاده‌ای داشت و بهتر از اون دیالوگ‌های دیوونه‌کننده‌ش بودن که من رو مسحور می‌کردن و یه جاهایی تا مرز مُردن هم پیش می‌رفتم.
ما بی اون که خودمون واقعاً بدونیم خیلی از کارها رو در راستای ارضای این غریزه انجام می‌دیم.
