https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/857556.Goldilocks_and_the_Three_Bears
Once upon a time there was a little girl named Goldilocks, who was very interested in online reviewing.
"Someone's been off-topic on my book!" he said with a slight French accent.Mrs. Bear was not far behind.
"Someone's been off-topic on my book!" she complained bitterly.Baby Bear looked around for her copy of Fifty Shades, eager to continue with the first bondage scene, but couldn't find it anywhere.
Suddenly, looking behind the couch, she found Golilocks not only reading it but also posting flippant updates on Goodreads."Someone's been off-topic on my book," she yelped, "and she's doing it right now!""Alors," said Mr. Bear in his French way.
“Goldilocks and the Three Bears” is a truly hilarious retelling of the classic fairy tale the children will be engaged in for a long time.James Marshall has done a magnificent job at both illustrating and writing this book.
Many children will love the bright tone of the book as the book is mainly cute for small children to enjoy while it is full of attitude that older children would enjoy.Parents should know that Goldilocks was a bit rude in this version of the classic fairy tale as in one incident; she barges into a home without knocking first and made a mess of the three bears’ house without cleaning up after herself.
But that all being said, and while the accompanying illustrations are indeed bright, expressive and full of humour (and clearly depict the often sly and calculating facial expressions of the main antagonist, of Goldilocks), they are also much much too flat, motionless and cartoon like for my personal tastes (I can and do appreciate them to a certain point, but I really do not like them all that much, and actually, in retrospect, I just do not enjoy these illustrations at all, I just find them aesthetically unpleasing, their Caldecott Honour for James Marshall quite notwithstanding).And considering that Goldilocks and the Three Bears is usually considered to be and approached as primarily a literary fairy tale, as a so-called Kunstmärchen (first written and published in England by Robert Southey in 1837, although in his version, instead of a mischievous young girl, it is an ugly old crone-like woman who invades and trashes a bear's humble domicile), the lack of any type of author's note on genesis and development of the latter, of the Goldilocks tales, is truly a rather disappointing and frustrating omission (for at the very least, Robert Southey's name as the likely original progenitor should have been mentioned).
Great nonsense is one of humanity’s greatest inventions and one of earth’s freest things; irreducible and full of life, eternally youthful.Though Goldilocks and the Three Bears is not pure nonsense of the sublime Hey diddle diddle… variety, in reading it I was surprised all over again by how nearly pointless it is, how ingrained in my consciousness it is, and how anticlimactically it ends, with Goldilocks jumping out the window and running away never to be seen again, with no lesson learned or transmitted, as if a stable furry tripartite household were momentarily invaded by nothing more than an irritating blonde phantasm, though they do have a broken chair to replace.Goldilocks is a pest.
The bears encompass both chaos and order, and what can be better than that fine and precarious balance?James Marshall by the way is one of the greats; his concision coupled with such verbal and visual wit is unparalleled.
Goldilocks and the three bears by James Marshall was a book that you pick up and you expect it to be good because this is a classic tale.
There were so many clues that Goldilocks could have seen to know that bears lived in that litle house there were pictures, locks of hair, and self pportraits done by little bear.
Goldilocks was not a good girl and sheserved to be eaten by those bears......
This book gets two stars for the story and two stars for the pictures...
James Marshall's illustrations have lots of fun details. I especially love that the bears have books scattered throughout their house.
Love James Marshall and his unique and wonderful illustrations. His entire series of fairy tale renditions is magic.
Goldilocks was different though and did her own thing and went straight through the woods until she found a house within the woods.
Meanwhile the three bears went on a ride to wait while their porridge was cooling down.
Next, she went into the living room and tried all the chairs.
The small sized bed was just right and Goldilocks took her a nap, during the three bears came back.
The little bear found Goldilocks in his bed and she hopped out of the window.
A teaching point for this book is that you can talk about similarities and differences through reading other version of Goldilocks.
I don't like it.....................................
The classic story of Goldilocks and the Three Bears is retold by this author in a comical way of the traditional story. It portrays the purpose of the story similar to the traditional version. I enjoyed this book and the illustrations of the book. It gives a new take on the story and still has the original ideas. I would use this to compare and contrast with the original version of the story. Then students could write their own version of this story with the same theme, but with a new setting and characters.
In this 1989 Caldecott Honor Medal Winner we see a re-telling of the famous children’s story of a girl named Goldilocks and her interference with the three bears’ home.
Goldilocks is an impetuous child who likes to do what she wants, instead of what she is told.
She also tries each, starting with the biggest one, only to find the small one just right, where she falls asleep and does not hear the bears come home.
The three bears look around their eaten plates, sat-on chairs, and used beds until the little bear spots Goldilocks still in his.
Goldilocks walks into the home of three bears when they went out for a walk.
When the bears returned home, they realised that someone has tried their porridge, sat on their chairs and slept in their beds.
Activities in literacy could include, having the children write an apology letter from Goldilocks to the three bears and for drama they could act out the story focusing on facial expressions, body language and tone of voice.
I highly recommend this book and even if this book is not used in literacy or drama, it should be read to the children as a class in circle time or reading time.
One morning the bears decide to go for a walk whilst their porridge cools down.
She finds the porridge and decides to try all three but baby bear's porridge is 'just right' she then decides to sit in the chairs and finds mummy and daddy bears chairs too uncomfortable and likes baby bear's chair but breaks it.
Goldilocks then decides to have a nap and once again finds the first two beds uncomfortable but baby bear's bed is 'just right'/ Whilst Goldilocks is sleeping the bears return and discover the mess she has left.
They find her sleeping in baby bear's bed and she is so scared that Goldilocks runs away and doesn't return.
I included this as a variation on the classic story because the author portrays Goldilocks as a specifically naughty girl, rather than the thoughtless or overly curious girl that is more typical for the story.
The first bit of text says, “Once there was a little girl called Goldilocks.
Text on the next page has Goldilocks making a promise, and then the sentence “But to tell the truth Goldilocks was one of those naughty little girls who do exactly as they please.
All this paints a very unpleasant picture of Goldilocks (which isn’t helped by the subsequent storyline) that is absent from the classic telling of the story.
Goldilocks and the Three Bears is a book that is synonymous with many children growing up in the United Kingdom.
Aimed primarily towards very young children, it can be used to teach children about size (big, medium and small) and also that actions have consequences.
Perhaps most notably children can learn about what can happen if they are to eat/use things of others without their permission.
This is a book I would recommend for children in Early Years, but the message that the book conveys is still appropriate for older children in Key Stage 1.
1989 Caldecott Honor - Favorite Illustration: The three bears aboard their rusty bicycle as they leave for their morning ride.This is a funny tale of Goldilocks - but told with a tongue-in-cheek manner that points out the rudeness of little girls who don't knock and steal/break other people's stuff. I love the look of terror on her face when she sees the bears and the fact that she never goes back serves her right.
I found this book insanely delightful. It had all the elements of a good story: humor, (comical asides), wonderfully bright illustrations and a good moral at the end. I would heartily recommend this book. It kept my attention and even made me smirk once or twice. Definitely check this book out.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
I like this humorous version with its cartoon illustrations. One thing I especially liked was that this version gave a reason for Goldilocks to be out and about--she was supposed to be buying muffins for her mother, who also warned her not to go into the woods. Of course, she disobeyed and the rest is folktale history. The cartoons are colorful and as humorous as the text.
I wasn't going to review any kids books on here since they are so short. But I have read this no less than a million times so that has to count for something.This is the story of Goldilocks and the Three Bears. My girls love this book. It takes the classic tale and embellishes it slightly. The pictures are great too. We love James Marshall books.
I appreciate the added details and word choice in Marshall's retelling of Goldilocks. While the illustrations complement and add to the humor of the story, I am not a huge fan of the cartoon-like style.
Humorous version of the classic fairy tale highlighted by the inimitable illustrations of James Marshall.
I love all traditional literature books because so many kids can make connections with them. They are something they have heard since they were babies.
This is just your traditional story of goldilocks and the three bears so what's not to love? The pictures are so amusing and made me laugh the whole time I was reading.
Reading the books off of Rory Gilmore's book challenge list. Read this book to baby Elizabeth. :D
Just an okay version of the classic tale.
Title Goldilocks and the Three BearsAuthor: James MarshallIllustrator: James MarshallGenre: Mother Goose/Nursery Rhyme Theme(s): Lesson Learning, Personification, Listen to your parentsOpening line/sentence: “Once there was a little girl called, Goldilocks.”Brief Book Summary: This is a retell of the popular nursery rhyme, where a cute little girl with blonde curls, named Goldilocks, does not listen to her mothers’ warning about taking the short cut.
(PUBLISHER: Dial Books for Young Readers (New York:), PUBLISHED: c1988.) Professional Recommendation/Review #2: Publishers Weekly (Publishers Weekly) Once there was a little girl named Goldilocks.
The book references the classic elements of the story such as the porridge being too hot, too cold, and just right, the chairs being sat in and the smallest being broken, and Goldilocks trying out all of the beds and picking the baby bear’s as the just right fit.
Organization- Goldilocks enters the bears house, tastes each bear’s porridge until she finds just the right temperature for her liking, tries out the chairs to find the best fit, and tests out each bed until she finds the most comfortable for her to take a nap in.
Categories/Genres for this class fulfilled by this book: Traditional LiteratureCopyright date: 1988Estimate of age level of interest: 5-8 years oldEstimate of reading level: 3rd GradeBrief description: A young girl, Goldilocks goes on an adventure and eventually enters The Three Bears House and causes a bit of a ruckus.Identify at least 2 characteristics of this genre and subgenre and discuss how they appear in your book.One aspect that readers may find, particularly in Traditional Literature, are animals that can talk and act like humans.
If the reading level is too difficult for some children, the book can still be enjoyed because children will bring background knowledge of the story and knowledge of how traditional literature goes.
Summary: Goldilocks stumbles across a house in the woods and finds soup that is too hot, too cold and just right for her.
She finds other things in the house that are too hot, too cold and just right for her.
Character traits: 1) idea is a good trait for this story because it shows the little girl trying to find things that are just right for her.
Organization they do a good job of and students could order the book going 1st, then, next, last to show what happened and how the story gradually grew to the bears find the little girl in baby bears bed.
1. Awards the book has received (if any): Caldecott Award2. Appropriate grade level(s): 1st grade to 3rd grade3. Original 3-line summary: This is classic folklore about a young girl named Goldilocks who goes to a family of bear's home. She eats their food, seats in their chair and sleeps in one of their beds. She falls asleep in one of the beds and ends up being woken up by baby bear. She runs away and is the family of bears never sees her again. 4. Original 3 -line review: This is a great book
Original 3-line summary: This is classic folklore about a young girl named Goldilocks who goes to a family of bear's home.
4. Original 3 -line review: This is a great book introduce children about folklore and classic literature.
The repetitive line about being "just right" will have the students repeating alongside the teacher.
5.	2-3 possible in-class usesThe students can have a storyboard that includes cut outs of Goldilocks, Mama Bear, Papa Bear and Baby Bear and the setting of the story.
Students can take on the persona of Goldilocks or one of the characters and re-enact the story on their own.
