https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4779086-oh-money-money
Written 100 years ago, so Porter's writing style is of that era, which is fine by me! The plot is timeless, thought-provoking and entertaining. So glad I picked this book as my first Eleanor Porter read; will be reading more of her works.
Stanley Fulton, an eccentric millionaire, is curious to see if his distant cousins, the middle-class Blaisdells, are worthy inheriting his money.
Then there are the children: college-bound Frank, fun-loving Bessie, level-headed Mellicent, and playful young Benny.Disguised as John Smith, a genealogist researching the Blaisdells, Stanley gets to know his cousins, their loves and fears, strengths and weaknesses, and watches as they rejoice in their sudden windfall, and the consequences thereof.
The unselfish do not instantly become saints.The moral of the story is, of course, that money cannot exactly buy happiness, but it is not as gooey a lesson as I thought it would be and not nearly as preachy as it could have been.
OH, how I thoroughly enjoyed this book with its cast of characters. This book was written 100 years ago but is as relevant today as then. I'm going read every book this author has!
Stanley Fulton is a fabulously successful businessman (it’s never clear exactly how he made his millions) whose wealth and fame haven’t brought happiness, love, or health.
Fullerton fakes an expedition to South America, “disappears,” shows up in Hillerton under an assumed name, leaves a provisional bequest of $100,000 to each cousin, and watches what they do with the money.
The story is slow in unfolding at the beginning–just give them the money already, Stanley!–but it’s fun to watch what unexpected wealth does to these ordinary people.I read this book as part of my My Year in 1918 project (myyearin1918.com)).
Great fun! I enjoyed listening to this on loyalbooks.com I was looking for something different and entertaining to listen to and this fit the bill! I highly recommend this book for just some simple silly fun!
Good readI loved the book and finished it in one go!Made for a delightful read.One glad book for Pollyanna !
A book with an insight of what money does to people! It's just not the money but how it's spent!
I thought I'd like another book by the writer of Pollyanna, but I didn't.
I chose this one as her highest adult rated book, as I thought her weakest point in Pollyanna was how she portrayed children, which is, a bit two-dimensional.This book had a good beginning and charming main character BUT the rest of the characters ended up being two-dimensional(!) and the story so predictable that there was nothing exciting in it for me.
Where one Blaisel family was too cheap, one too overspending, and one juuuuust right.So about 30% in, without much action to boot, I'm abandoning it with my hopes dashed.
Pollyanna is the leading cause of diabetes.) Stanley Fulton is a multimillionaire with no one to leave his money to except for some distant cousins back East that he has never met.
To see which one would handle the big money the best, Fulton first sets out to test the cousins with a just a taste of wealth in the form of $100,000 for each of them.
(The book was published back in 1918 when a hundred thou really meant something.) Naturally this sudden windfall brings nothing but chaos; not at all what Fulton meant to do.
A tired, disgruntled millionaire wonders what his heirs will do with his money after he is gone. The twist ... he has never met them. Curiosity and a good bit of distrust in humanity give him the idea to fake his death and give them each a large gift. Now he can get to know them and see how they handle sudden wealth. What is the best way to help the poor? What can sudden wealth do to people? It is such a sweet story. My father, my mother and myself all really liked it.
This book by the author of "Pollyanna" is a very sweet story written in 1918. Highly reminiscent of L.M.M. Montgomery's "The Blue Castle," it is about a multi-millionaire giving away large sums of money to three different families, and moving into their town in disguise to observe what they do with it. It's charming.
very interesting old novel. A multi- millionaire give one hundred thousand dollars to each of his three distant cousins, and disguises himself as a genealogist and lives among them, watching how they use the money. Read and see how it turns out! :)
I love to think about money and this book gave me plenty of opportunity to do that. I also like to see how and what other people do with theirs and this gave me an opportunity to do that too. So I liked it.
This book could have been a lot better. The premise sounds amazing but it ended up falling flat. The characters were boring, and so was the plot. It was also sappy. I enjoyed reading it but I won't read it again. And I totally guess the ending.
This was a book club read, and I really liked it! It's a fairly short book, and it makes you wonder what your own reaction in the money inheriting scenario would have been.
I enjoyed the story.I liked the characters.It was like Pollyanna with a twist
By the Author of "Pollyanna", this book "Oh, Money! Money!" is hilarious, sweet, and interesting. I thoroughly enjoyed it--I was laughing out loud at parts.
One of the cutest, most wonderful books I've read in a while!! Way better than Pollyanna.
What a delightful book. Starts a tad slowly by today's standards, but well worth sticking with. Choose this when you're in the mood for a little fun.
Lovely book! Great read!
Interesting book about the way money makes people act. Does include a romantic story line but isn't the central theme.
