https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18144115-all-fall-down
She finds herself in rehab when her husband decides to confront her on her addiction.Also, her mom drops this bombshell and it just kind of goes away, what was the point of it ?
I didn't find the characters of her best friend and husband well developed at all, I just kind of feel they made appearances.I also don't know why they had her husband maybe having an affair since that storyline wasn't developed or delved into either.
I know the book revolved around addiction but I didn't really find a story.
I feel like I was just reading someone's story from the NA book.
The middle part of the book is more interesting and although again, the other characters are simplistically developed and there is too much drawn from the Sandra Bullock movie 28 Days, the emotional pull is clearly due to the excellent writing.
The last part of the book feels 'stuck on' and there is less to be curious about because you've probably read things like this before.
It reads more like an addendum.
There were glimmers of what I liked about how the author writes.
All Fall Down Weiner's latest follows that same formula that has made her so popular and loved by many.Allison Weiss seemingly lives the life anyone would want.
A lovely home, a handsome husband, and a beautiful daughter.
The only problem with this life is that said lovely home is way out of her price range, that handsome husband is very distant, and her beautiful daughter is very "sensitive".
As if these problems weren't enough, she's trying to balance home-life, work, an ailing parent, and her addiction to prescription meds without falling off the rails.
Allison is so sure that she doesn't have a problem.
This book didn't live up to other books of Weiner's that I've read. I was so irritated with the main character and wanted to jump in the book and slap her. This book wasn't horrible but not my favorite from Jennifer.
The cover photo makes no sense. I had no sympathy for the main character. The daughter was a brat. Too many unresolved mini storylines. And unless you are a music/Broadway aficionado, the whole chapter about preparing for the talent show was annoying. There will never be another Good in Bed and I just have to stop believing she has it in her to write one.
I've read just about every Jennifer Weiner book, and while I have great fondness for Good in Bed and Certain Girls and I do think Jennifer Weiner is probably a really fabulous person, I just can't say I'm an actual fan of her books. They're a little like grocery store birthday cake to me: sounds like a good idea and I have positive memories and associations, but when it gets down to it I just feel barfy after I partake. Maybe I'll skip the next go round and hold off for a higher quality piece of dark chocolate literature instead?
“When you can stop you don't want to, and when you want to stop, you can't...” Jennifer Weiner, the #1 New York Times bestselling author, pens her new novel, called All Fall Down  which is about a woman's fight over addiction.Synopsis: Allison Weiss got her happy ending: a handsome husband, an adorable daughter, a job she loves, and the big house in the suburbs.
Other than Allison, every other character from her daughter to her mother to her husband to her friends, every one is given room to grow and evolve, since when an addict falls deep into the illusive worlds of addiction and perfection, they take down everyone around them into their own hellhole.
Allison Weiss has a pretty darn good life--a beautiful (but high maintenance) 5 year old daughter, a husband who adores her (but works pretty long hours), and loving parents, even if one of them just got diagnosed with Alzheimer's.
When Allison throws her back out at the gym, her doctor prescribes Percocet, and the blissful feeling of relief from life's pressures causes Allison to seek out those same feelings, again and again.
I'm recommending this novel because addiction can happen to anyone, but it's rarely told so succinctly and in a relate-able way.
One of Jennifer Weiner's best books to date.
It is a departure from the Rom-Com books she is known for and writes so well.
This book deals with the serious and very prevalent problem of pill popping among the middle class women in today's society.
I loved this book and love how well Jennifer depicted this often taboo topic.
Don't worry, you will still get the humor and well drawn characters that Weiner is so well known for.
I personally found this novel refreshing and it shows that Jennifer Weiner has solidified her place among the giants in women's fiction.
Not Jennifer Weiner's worst novel but certainly not her best either. I had mixed feelings about Allison's addiction to prescription pills. She's a difficult protagonist to root for. She's extremely unlikable, resentful, self-centered, and a huge complainer. But then again, Allison's husband is no bed of roses either (very condescending and dismissive). The writing is solid, but the ending was kind of abrupt. Instead of feeling hopeful of Allison's sobriety, I just felt empty and depressed. *sighs* If you're looking for a great Jennifer Weiner novel, I would try either "Good in Bed" or "The Next Best Thing".
I've been reading Jennifer Weiner novels since 2006.
So I went to Barnes and Noble, and picked up Good In Bed. Once I got over my grief, I stopped reading chick lit, and went back to other books.
I've since read all of her novels.
I finished the book in a day, and I genuinely interested in Allison's story of addiction.
And, at times, the story didn't ring true for me.
And I would have been more interested to spend time on Allison's life in recovery.
How can she afford to be in full-time recovery and not work at all?
Things escalate to the point where Allison is put in rehab, a place she feels she does not belong in, alongside the "real" drug addicts.
I found Allison's character a bit boring to be honest, her husband I could not connect to at all, and frankly her daughter just plain got on my nerves.
Not for me anyway.Look, it's not a terrible read, I was really hoping it was going to get better and ramp up to brilliance at some point but by the time she was in rehab and we had chapters and chapters of rehab life dialogue, both her internal ramblings as well as the external chatter I was just kind of bored really, it was a bit empty of substance.

Addiction and recovery stories are well covered in novels, memoirs, and movies. Jennifer Weiner has nothing to add here except a clichéd and shallow version of addiction among the middle classes. The characters, including the narrator, are all superficial. I think Jennifer is trying to show that addiction can destroy middle class people as well as crack whores, but she does it in a boring, women's fiction way, never resonating beyond the immediate needs and emotions of the heroine and her circle. Two stars because it's Jenn Weiner and thus readable.
The expected publication date is June 17 2014.I have not read any of Jennifer Weiner's other books however I had certainly heard of her and I have been curious for some time.
I found it realistic in the fact that addiction does not discriminate and stereotype and it can happen to anyone.I have to admit that there were many times that I wanted to slap Allison and tell her to wake up!
There is not necessarily always a rock bottom sob story tail behind an addict however regardless of the story there is no less damage.I feel lucky to be introduced to Weiner's work through this story.
A fairly unflinching look at one women's descent into pill addiction. A more serious turn for Weiner this time, but the subject matter demanded it.
Back to the book, this was basically just a timeline of a addicted housewife “I took this and that and this, and went to rehab and did this and that and this, and now im doing this and that” and during all of this, I felt nothing, I didn’t feel any emotions or even her desire to have another pill didn’t come through, it was just like..
I know I shouldn't feel this way about addiction, and that everyone has their own story and pain, and being aggravated that the depth of emotions that occur in the life of an addict and their family, and the characters didn't match up to my own experiences.
Meh. The first third of this book was good.
This part of the book explored how hard it is to be a working mother.
I immediately hated the husband character, and kept wondering why the protagonist, Allison, did not do more to encourage his participation in their lives.
My problem is with the last two thirds of the book.
What could have been a model for a strong female character ended up with the message that a woman is defined by her relationship to a distant man who clearly didn't truly give a shit about her, or her daughter.
It is a story about the process of addiction.
All Fall Down shows how addiction can affect anyone; it is not limited to the media-portrayed stereotypes.
All Fall Down shows the thought processes of someone facing addiction: the denial, the justifications, the compulsion, the hiding, the shame, and ultimately the self-destruction that prompts one to seek help.
Allison's story presented some obvious repetition but that is what addiction is.
It's also a destroyer of one's quality of life and relationships and Allison's story portrays this well.
All Fall Down is a must read for women of any age who have ever assumed addiction looks a certain way.
Despite her increasing reliance on pills (Vicodin, Percocet, Oxycontin) sourced both from legitimate prescriptions, and later supplemented by purchases from clandestine internet based businesses, Allison dismisses the notion of herself as an addict, even as her life begins to fall down around her.With realism, compassion and a touch of humour, Weiner charts how easily Allison slides into addiction - her retreat into denial, her growing desperation for her next pill and the damage her it begins to inflict on her family and her career.
ALL FALL DOWN is engrossing, eloquent & witty, packing a particularly powerful punch for anyone who is, or has ever been, a Stay At Home Parent.
I appreciated that Weiner's character was a suburban mother who looked like any one of a million other people.
But WHAT the HECK are you thinking, believing that a journalist's salary could support you being a stay-at-home mom, even with a supposedly huge book advance?
Really, Weiner, you have your main character's issues all stem from this problem???
I totally forgot that the main character is now supporting her family with her blogging career.
But instead, she starts abusing prescription drugs.Like I said earlier, I appreciate what Weiner is trying to do with the story.
Allison Weiss felt under increasing pressure – as well as trying to run a blogging business from home, she had the worry of her father who had just been diagnosed with Alzheimer’s Disease and her mother wasn’t coping at all; her beautiful six year old daughter Ellie was high maintenance plus she couldn’t help but feel everything wasn’t quite right between her husband, Dave and herself.
Suddenly she felt like she had lost control of her life; of the lives around her – what was in her future?
The story of a young wife and Mother named Allison who has always been a "good girl" - not a party girl, did well in college, graduated, gets a good job, gets married, has a daughter.
Then one day she hurts her back at the gym and her doctor gives her a script for Vicodin and the downward spiral begins....over the next two years Allison slowly becomes more addicted to the Vicodin and then eventually moves on to Oxycontin and buying drugs on the internet.I thought the book was well done - how does a "normal" wife and Mother end up becoming a drug addict?
When she speaks, women listen.ALL FALL DOWN, is a grown up novel, advancing past the days of dating and guys—now her character, Allison is facing the real truths of life—marriage, motherhood, career and addiction.
More importantly, how will she maintain her life without the comfort of her pills?In a world where so many women feel the need to be perfect; finding it difficult to balance it all, personal and business—there comes stress of maintaining.
This book will hit home to women readers— ALL FALL DOWN reminds me of several of my favorite quotes and a book I read recently "Better than Perfect" by Dr. Elizabeth Lombardo.
Chapter 8; Ok, I'm done.I wanted to love reading my first Jennifer Weiner book.
I've heard that they were "clever", "smart", with "well developed characters in a well paced story".
The other characters are simplistically developed and there is too much drawn from the Sandra Bullock movie 28 Days, the emotional pull is clearly due to the boring writing.
That said, I don't know if Weiner can write a main character who isn't snarky about others, unhappy that she is/was overweight, and/or has a free floating anger about not being recognized as someone who is as talented as she is.
Goes into my DNF file. I tried, I really tried but not for me!
All Fall Down, While it started a little slower than I was anticipating (I also, purposely, did not read the back of the book or the synopsis), by page 50 I was hooked and spent the better part of Memorial Day reading the book in a manic reading session.Allison is a modern everywoman.
I anticipate while some of this is different than rehab, she probably would have been helped (and alive today) with a serious rehabilitation plan.Jennifer Weiner’s writing, as evidenced in the many previous books authored by her I have read, is as masterful as always.
Nowadays, Allison's job brings in more money than Dave's.But Allison finds it more and more difficult to manage her life, and Ellie's behavior is increasingly frustrating most of the time.
But when life keeps throwing those troubling curves, Allison finds herself constantly on a quest for pills and spending a lot of time in search of more pills.What will happen to turn Allison's "perfect" world on end?
I didn't know what All Fall Down was about when I picked this book to read.
No, this is a cautionary tale that could apply to anyone you know.That super mom next to you in the pick up circle at your local elementary school might just be battling more demons than she can handle without a chemical assist.Once again Weiner's trade mark humour shines through but it's much darker than flippant.
The lies an addict tells are too often told to themselves.While there are lessons to be learned, the book is not preachy or judgemental.
