https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1524173.The_Sorcerer_in_the_North
The Sorcerer in the North (Ranger's Apprentice, #5), John FlanaganThe Sorcerer in the North (The Sorcerer of the North in the US) is the fifth book in the Ranger's Apprentice series by Australian author John Flanagan.
The book starts off with Will finding a dog wounded on the side of the road, injured by a spear.
After the meeting the Skandians raid the castle and Will makes a deal with them: If he gives them food and water the Skandians have to leave.
Before the Skandians leave Will captures the man who hurt his dog and hands him over to the Skandians to be a slave.
Contains mild spoilers for this book and the prequels.The Sorcerer in the North was, unfortunately, my least favourite of the series and probably the weakest sequel too.
but once I got used to an older will and the surrpisngly obvious lack of both Halt and Horace, it wasn't so bad...
I'm not saying I didn't enjoy this part - I did - but it was little too rushed.
I loved seeing this other side to Will, one where he got to be his usual open, friendly self and enjoy himself in public.
This series remains a favourite of mine, and I really did njoy this book.

Very good.
However, the story is good.
Recurring key characters from prior series include Will the ranger and Alyss the courier diplomat (both are now adults, not apprentices, about 21 years old).
We also see the master rangers again, Crawley and Halt.
And let's not forget the nasty John Buttle, and all the frightened — and frightening — inhabitants of Norgate fiefdom, and an ugly fortress on the border of Picta (Scotland).
Let's not forget the strange beings in Grimsdal Wood.Be warned — it ends on a cliff.
This series just keeps getting better and better.
While most of his growth happened in books 1-4, it is easy to see how much more he has improved in the skip of a few years, and his heightened skills are shown very well through his actions, and he is no longer expecting others such as Halt to come and save him.
Will has to solve his own problems, and I really enjoyed seeing how much he had grown up.The humor, as always was great, and I loved that his childhood friend Alyss was finally given a bigger role, and how she was able to grow into more of an actual character, instead of just feeling like stock.The ending was as intense as ever, and left me wanting more.
I'm a fan of this series, but I felt that Flanagan started doing some great things in this book.
Flanagan has found a way, in my opinion, to credibly give his female characters important things to do in the context of a medieval world.
This book had some themes I think are especially important for adolescents to read--being popular vs.
I really think these books are great for young men especially.
They are also respectful of women, and there are good female characters as well (although the books tend a little more towards the male point of view)
It was quite boring, what with all the details and half of the book talking solely about Will's to-be mission.
I wanted to get to the mission and once I did, I couldn't put the book down.What I liked most about the novel was the element of mystery.
In most of Flanagan's other books, the antagonist and protagonist are both clear as daylight, but in The Sorcerer of the North, the reader, along with the characters, tries to put the clues together to discover who's who, which was pretty fun.
You tell 'em Will!
xDI'd say this was my favorite book out of the series but I can tell the next book will be better.
The pacing of this book is on the slow side, and the mystery is not quite as interesting.
I'm hoping we will see more of them in the next book.
One thing I found really unbelievable was that Will had the dog for two weeks, and it was perfectly trained in that time.
I don't know any dog that is perfectly obedient in two weeks....I listened to the audio version of this, which was fabulous!
My only problem was that Halt was given a Scottish lilt to his accent.
I never got used to it because Halt wasn't in this story much though, which is sad.
I like this book, but not as much as some of the others ones. Maybe because Halt isn't in it as much? All he does is bum around with Crowley (as far as the reader can tell). Which probably got terribly annoying to Crowley. But it is neat to see Will learn to do things on his own.
Just a note: I'm updating my progress in this series, but since I'm behind and it's been a while since I've read these, I'm not going to do a review of each book. After I finish 7/8 I might do a review of those. :)
warning: cliff-hanger ending!
Very enjoyable.
The sorcerer in the North is Will's first quest alone as a ranger. This book was less action packed and dragged a bit. In the next book this quest will be solved, so I expect there will be more battles and action :)
Plot-4 StarsCharacters-4.5 StarsSetting-3 StarsThis book does nothing new but what it does do, it does well. The characters are the best part of the book. The plot can sometimes drag on into another book but it's still a good plot. The last couple of books in this series have been funnier. The settings still though disappoint me as well as the creatures. I was hoping for something new. Instead like the Races and cultures, it's all borrowed from Earth. Would I read the next in the series? Yes. Enough to sing Graybeard Halt infront of Halt? I think so.
I'm not a huge bookworm most of the time, but these books are incredible!The series takes place in a vast land of kingdoms, battles, and sorcery.
Its turns out Will is going to be a larger help then expected....This Rangers Apprentice book is incredibly detailed and descriptive, as all the other books are in the series, so much that it makes you feel as if you are right there with them on their adventure.
As if it wasn't captivating enough almost every chapter is left with a cliff hanger that forces you to read the next chapter!I would recommend this book to anybody having an interest with medieval times, or if you are a fan of Alex Rider or something along those lines.
In the past,I always considered this book to be a bit of a bore; I'm not sure why I ever thought that!The story line is good, and it's exciting to read about Will on his first mission!
I love the way he turned out.
I really like the character Malcolm, and all the people that live with him in the Healer's Clearing.I especially love the fact that Alyss became involved in the plot, and that Horace got sent to help Will; the story is always so much more interesting when those two are on missions together!
Another fantastic book in the RA series!
This has been my favorite book in the series, so far.Will finally settles inBut that's not the endNow there's a sorcerer from the NorthAnd he needs to find the source
So, since Horace is now roughly my age I can add him to my fictional boyfriends shelf, Hahah (◍•ᴗ•◍)♡ ✧* !!! Also, so far this cover is my favourite and I absolutely adore this series!!!!
One of my reading goals this year was to read some of the series that I have ignored, despite the fact that I was enjoying them.
I read the first four a few years ago and really enjoyed them, then I just didn't pick up the next one.
Anyway, this one jumps forward a few years in the story and Will has become a full Ranger.
I think this was still fun and it would make a good series for younger readers to get started on fantasy that isn't too deep and detailed.
At this point though, I don't think I feel like continuing the series.
Oh, wat heb ik GENOTEN van dit deel! De tijdsprong tussen het vorige deel en nu geeft het verhaal een nieuwe impuls. Ook zit het lekker vol met actie en vond ik de humor heerlijk, met regelmaat zat ik met een grijns op mijn gezicht op de fiets (ik luister dit boek op weg van- en naar werk).
Not as good as the others. I am very glad I read Erak's Ransom before this one, the time-line order has a much better flow. It is still a good story but there were too many dull parts and a terrible cliff hanger which forces me to read the next one....I might have anyway but I don't like being forced.
Life at Seacliff is much different from the life that Will Treaty is used to—he even has a last name from the Treaty that he helped to form between Skandia and Araluen with the new Oberjarl Erak who became a close friend of Will, Evanlyn, Horace, and Halt’s.
Will faces the Skandian crew, in Seacliff, the threat of sorcery, plots, ploys, and disguise as he undertakes the challenges of being a full-fledged Ranger and having to make the calls on his own.This is another great book by John Flanagan about Will’s great adventures.
This book is really a great addition to the Ranger's Apprentice series.
I am a fan of this series, as it includes a large amount of adventure, wit and great characters.
When Lord Syron of the Norgate Fief in Hibernia is struck by a mysterious illness, Will, Tug, his new dog, and his friend/lover Alyss are called in to figure out what is ailing the Lord of Norgate.
That's not saying I don't like Scooby-Doo. I'm just saying that I don't think he fits into the Rangers Apprentice.
4.6 out of 5.0 (if your thinking, "How do I come up with these figures?" I just make them up.PLOT: Good.
This time he is up against a legend, an elusive sorcerer rumored to be poisoning the king of a northern fief, a land integral to the protection of the whole kingdom.A Bit of a RambleAs with all of the Ranger's Apprentice books, I loved the characters, the battle tactics, the weaving of plot lines, and the setting.
While I appreciate the fact that a series is a continuance of the same story, I like my books to have a relatively full an complete plot.
Books, even in a series, which just end with no resolution whatsoever, or in some cases even a climax, drive me bonkers.
The Sorcerer in the North is the fifth book in the Ranger’s Apprentice Series by John Flanagan.It starts several years after the last book ended.
Also, surprise, surprise, while these books so far were mostly just entertainment, excitement and fun, this one even had some social criticism!My only complaint … it ends on a cliffhanger … again!
Seriously, I feel like the author has a thing for having cliffhangers for most of his books.
The second ended on a cliffhanger, the third kind of as well and now the fifth!
When sorcery is suspected in the north protagonist Will, newly appointed ranger, is sent to investigate with his allies Horace the oak leaf knight a strong willed once enemy and Alyss a kind good friend of the kings diplomatic service.
This is the book I'm having to make myself put down to continue on with the "adult" fantasy novel of a gazillion pages.
I love that the young adult book with a couple hundred pages and no overabundance of text, is the more immersive and believable of the two.Edit - finished it yesterday over my breakfast.
:) They're quick reads & it was easy to guess what was going to happen beforehand, but the characters are, again, enjoyable so I didn't mind going along through the life-lesson learning experience with them.Typo that needs fixing: When Alyss gets on the horse behind Will, she's on the horse's rump, not withers.
This is a really fast read and I enjoyed it, but in comparison to the other books in the series that I've read so far, it wasn't as great in terms of plot and unpredictability. I'm sure the next book will be awesome though.
9/10. I loved this one! Not quite worthy of a 10/10 rating but very close. One of my favourites in the series!
This book - which brings us to the small coastal fief of Seacliff, and then to the remote northern fief of Norgate - is exactly what I had wanted to read earlier in the series, when Will and Evanlyn being whisked off to Skandia derailed my enjoyment of being immersed in Araluen lore.
A solid adventure and a good story, but maybe lacking that "something extra".
I don't want to give anything away, but maybe what I found most memorable about this book is the brief lesson of compassion that pops up towards the end.
It was a quick glimpse, and I'm hoping we'll see more of that part of the story in the next book.
