https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11044.The_Diary_of_Ana_s_Nin_Vol_3
They reduce the intensity and acuteness of human sorrow.”  - The Journals of Anais Nin, Volume Three I love reading diaries in general and Nin’s are probably my favourite.
And not to mention she is the most feeling writer; her rich inner life comes across very well in her writing.Nin has moved back to the USA following the break of World War 2.
Having to leave Louveciennes, a place that she loves, where she writes and knows people is not easy for Nin. She experiences culture shock in the States and finds it difficult to integrate.
Reading Anais Nin is always like a homecoming to me.
I reconnect to my emotional self in a very strong way when I read her; I become more human and am able to access the beauty in the world more deeply.
I love reading about her struggle and learning process to relate to the world as a woman and as an artist; how to understand the mode of describing what surrounds her and is inside of her in the diary versus the mode of creating for her novels.
This is something I struggle with in my own writing and when I read Anais's work I feel more able to see the balance between living naturally and living artfully.
Some have speculated some of her 'journaling' was embelished but most journalists (or diary writers) always write to some audience (like Rebecca Mann wrote eons ago "reading my journals one would wonder at how great I seem", or something to that effect.
I love Nin's musings and nothing I write will ever do Anais and her journals justice.
Like her, my journal too has become a part of my soul.
All women should read Nin at some point in life, and hell- men should too.
If for no other reason than to be entertained by her writing about famous men, some before they were famous.
4.5
My favorite stuff in this is her friendships with women: the fragile and lovely actress Luise Rainier, Gotham Book Mart's brave individualist bookseller Frances Steloff, and the surrealist patrons, millionairesses Caresse Crosby and Peggy Guggenheim.
I loved seeing how her frustration at publishing Winter of Artifice with a commercial publisher leads her, not to defeat, but to purchase a printing press and with assistance of the handsome, limpet-like Gonzalo, prints the book herself, which sells through the Gotham Book Mart to collectors--giving an object lesson to today's concern about the dematerialization of the printed work.
I picked this up at a bookstore in San Francisco. Didn't realize until after I bought it that it's part three in a volume of six. So far I've just read the preface, which is obviously not autobiographical. I actually like that I'm starting in the middle of her life. Sounds like she had the romantic life of a vagabond. I'm gonna be a different person after I read this.
I am no adventurer, I miss my home, familiar streets, those I love and know well." (p.11)"It isn’t good to stay too long in the polluted air of history." (p.27)"America is in even greater danger because of its cult of toughness, its hatred of sensitivity, and someday it may have to pay a price for this, because atrophy of feeling creates criminals." (p.28)"The nights lie around us like an abyss of sensual warmth, awakening the senses, almost palpable.
There are so many joys, and I have only known the ones that come like a miracle and tough ordinary life with light." (p.134)"I thought, with me he will be different.
It is quite impossible for me to review a book that I've read through 9 months. Every single time I turned a page I felt different, I had different emotions and expectations. Sometimes I hated her, sometimes I felt that she was the only human being in the world I wanted to admire, i felt so much, I will carry on this journal in my heart. I don't need to read everything she ever wrote, because this much satisfies me already.
Anaïs Nin’s diaries are essentials in my collection. They are treasures. I read them over and over, I turn to them when I feel lost, when I have questions, when I second guess myself as a writer. Anaïs and her words are vital to my existence.
Géniale, merveilleuse, profonde et vraie, j'ai l'impression d'avoir rencontré une amie. Ce livre réconcilie avec le fait de parler de soi.
a bit too abstract for my taste but it’s still unmistakably anais so
In a sense---it is the same with all truths fundamental to the human progression through time---they have to pertain to our very own life.
It is not the actual experience of the moments one is reading about and absorbing into our very being(a recreation/enactment of our very life before our core of perception).
Anais from what I have read is the embodiment of the actualization of art.
The accessing of that which may have been hinted at by others but which is instead hers to bring into human focus--is at the core the very essence of art.
"One evening I did enjoy myself with Brigitte and Hugh Chisholm. She is flawless, a delight to look at. A Viking, but fullbreasted, with rich hair, a rich voice, a wonderful ease. She was sitting crosslegged on a satin divan, wearing slacks, she the natural beauty, I the artificial one, the created one, the one who needs a certain atmosphere, a certain light, a certain mood. That night, in the warmth of their admiration, I too bloomed.Everywhere now I see people seeking the deep current in me, t
"One evening I did enjoy myself with Brigitte and Hugh Chisholm.
I no longer believe it is that they think me beautiful, or that I can dance, or write, but that it is the deeper current they feel.
Brigitte showed me her design for a bathing suit.
Later as we were going out and I was powdering in the salon, she called me vehemently to the bathroom where she was absolutely naked, to dress herself again.
Only when she was dressed did I feel courage enough to kiss her.
I came away filled with colors, flavors, bathed in luxury and beauty."
Her writing is always beautiful, always imaginative, always alluring, somehow strangely personal to me.
She is my favourite writer, by far.
Her words echo straight to the soul.
This was an insight into her, a magical idea, a realm all to herself and I loved it.
At times, it dragged on a little: ruminations about various people, needless thoughts, letters which were difficult to put into context; but all the way through, there was a voice, a voice of beauty, freedom, love liberating something inside of me.
All beautiful.
All beautiful.
I am now reading Vol. 2 - I happen to randomly find Nin's journals when I travel, and it's been nearly a year that I've read Vol. 3, but all the excitement of being part of Nin's journey, her ways of experiencing life and the enchantment of her words, it is all coming back!Probably the most poetical description of everyday matters, along with bigger issues like war, poverty of artists and whathaveyou, Anais Nin's journals are a treasure you should have near you at all times.
i'll be honest: i enjoy reading anais nin's diaries (in limited doses), but i'll be damned if i could tell you what they are "about," you know? i mean, they're diaries. i guess this one mainly takes place after anais relocates to new york during world war two. she is working as a kind of secretary/administrative assistant/student of otto rank, a famous psychotherapist. she is thinking of abandoning writing & becoming a therapist herself. there's more to it, but that's the gist, i guess.
Like I said before, it is so easy to get lost in the vocabulary and language Ms. Nin uses in her diaries. This one took me a little longer than the others to get through because i felt like the middle portion of this volume dealt with her struggles in NYC. In turn, her writing seemed like a struggle and for me reading it felt like a struggle. The last third seemed to gain more momentum.
Anais is a beautiful writer. I feel guilty for putting this book down several times. For some reason, I just don't seem to be able to finish it. I think I'm more interested in her history with Henry Miller and relationships with other writers of the period. Although her life was spectacular in its own right. Maybe I should have started with volume 1.
Nin's account pre WW2 are riveting. A first hand account of an artist trapped in the onset of war. Her multi-national background, besides her artistry in writing, captures a vivid account of pre-war trepidation and mounting doom.
In comparison with the previous volumes, not my favourite one. At first, I thought this would be my favourite volume, taking into account that it narrates events during the Second World War, but well, nope.
This volume of the diary documents her life in America while war is tearing apart Europe. Her (a)political consciousness is becoming more apparent in this work and her strength in focusing on her immediate relationships is solidified and paradoxically placed in a broader social context.
It has been sometime since I read this book but I absolutely love Anais Nins work.
Ditto
gorgeous and illuminating as usual.
"The word on her lips is always yes, and all of her being says yes yes yes to all that is happening and all that is offered to her."
Read her letters to Miller with the book... it adds a very interesting other perspective, and, hha, you'll feel like such the voyeur!
Inspires old-fashioned, romantic journaling.
Interesting as a personal testimonial and a historical document. A free woman struggling with the new environment she finds in the United States. Contains erotic tales that she writes for money.
So beautifully written.
Awake until 3:15 a.m. to finish this one lol. A review coming "soon".
