https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18114142-a-fall-of-marigolds
Even after all other flowers have given up."A scarf connects two women both coping with tragic events which lead to loss and heartache.In 1911, Nurse Clara Wood survived the Triangle Shirtwaist fire.
In the book, Clara was able to get out of the factory in time only to see those who jumped, including a man she had feelings for, to their deaths rather than face the flames.
Having said that, I also feel that the Author could have moved things along a little faster in this aspect.I would have liked to have seen Taryn's story-line fleshed out a lot more.
I can't remember when I've read a story that resonates with me as deeply as this one.
The story is about two women, their lives lived a century apart yet entwined with a single scarf and a shared grief.
Meissner masterfully weaves the stories together, blending the edges in a smooth flow, making their lives almost one and the same.
Being connected to the reality of September 11 - watching those events unfold on live television, watching the towers fall, watching the people who chose their own destiny from the windows - made Clara's shock and grief over the events of August 1911 more real to me.
The story set in 1911 was kind of ridiculous. The main character falls in love so many times and so easily that it is not believable. Her despair at losing someone who she barely knew can not compare to the heartache of the main character of the modern story. The modern story of a woman whose husband died in the Twin Towers is very touching and sad. Overall, while entertaining, it was just o.k.
I'm sitting here covered in goosebumps.
Here's just a piece of it: "perhaps you are thinking, as I once did, that love is too precarious to want to lavish it again on another.
I want you to know that love is not a person.
It wasn't until now that I realized I had mistakenly come to believe that love came from a place inside me and therefore I had to protect that place.
It comes from heaven, Eleanor.
And because I know my words will fail me, I'll just say if you like Lisa Wingate or Carla Stewart you'll love this author.
Susan Meissner's writing is bright and elegant, managing to be breezy despite the incredibly heavy themes in this novel: two of the worst disasters in American history and their lingering losses."Good luck made you feel kissed by heaven and smiled upon by the Fates.
The exact same conversation happens with no fewer than 5 people, no fewer than 5 times each.
At the very least, Meissner could have done something with those repetitive pages in which nothing happened with Clara and given Taryn some more depth.
This was a beautiful book, an emotional read, one where I would suddenly find tears streaming down my face. By some strange quirk of fate I was reading 2 books set partly around 9/11 simultaneously. Both 4 star reads. 'Everything beautiful has a story it wants to tell, but not every story is beautiful. 'A beautiful scarf passed down through the generations links 2 stories a century apart. Very moving. And beautifully narrated by Tavia Gilbert.
Nurse Clara Wood working on Ellis Island in 1911 is grieving the loss of man she loved, to the factory fires and Taryn Michaels is trying to put her life together in 2011, ten years after she lost her husband in the 9/11 terrorist attacks.
Also the fact that it was set in the hospital on Ellis Island which was in itself an interesting setting.I think if this book wasn’t one of my book club reads, I wouldn't have finished it to its conclusion and I would have given up long before I got out of my own ‘in-between space’.
So when I realized Meissner was writing it as historical fiction, I jumped to the acknowledgements to deduce whether “she had a right to it.” And when I learned that she had pieced 9/11 together from interviewed people's experiences, even though she did a believable job, I felt defensive — as if she'd exploited something she doesn't own.
But the plot is good; the feeling of time, place, and people are truly authentic; and I loved the details (medical, textiles) which were such an organic part of the story that they felt like firsthand knowledge.
I thought this book had a good premise -- one character from 1911 and losing someone in the Triangle Park Shirt fire, the other in 2011 who lost someone in 9/11 and tied together by a marigold scarf.
It tried to explore loss and opening up to love again but at such a surface level.
This book could have been so much more discussing love and loss, following the characters as they grow and change.
It seemed to paint such a lovely picture of the Ellis Island hospital too.
Good premise but too much of a surface treatment.
This is my first Susan Meissner book and I already can’t wait to read more books from her. She KNOWS how to write a great story!! I really enjoyed this book about a scarf's history and how it played a part in two women's lives. Highly recommend.
This is quite simply an emotional, multifaceted and well written novel. You get two stories of tragic events within one book set many years ago and in the present. I love the way the two stories weave together by a beautiful scarf. An interesting cast of characters with some predictability but overall a quick and enjoyable read. Recommend it to those that like parallel stories.
I have no major complaints about the writing as it didn't get in the way of the story.
I have some major complaints about the plotting.
I know that the scarf held the stories together but it just felt contrived to me.
It's chock full of sentences like these that would be redundant if the author had just told the story without trying to tell her readers what to think: "Thoughts are thrust upon you.
Do you think everything happens for a reason?
The effects of our choices spill onto each other.
I didn't expect to love this book.
It wasn't even on my very long TBR list.
This story goes from Ellis Island, 1911 to Manhattan, 2011.
It is very much like a novel written by Sarah Jio, that goes between two story lines that eventually tie in at the end.
This is a beautiful tale of love, and love lost.
Grab this fantastic book for your next summer read, and get lost in a story you'll love!!
Silly, predictable, very poorly written book filled with whiny, unbelievable characters. Only the historical bits were of any interest. But a quick read which will help me get back on schedule to finish 52 books this year.
The other portion told the story of a woman who lost her husband in the World Trade Center attacks and how the scarf played a part in her life.The book kept my interest- but there were times when the author did not balance the two time periods effectively.
It seems the author wanted to write a story about a scarf that ties two people from different time periods together, and then filled in the gaps.
Ultimately, it read as if it was the author's first attempt at writing a fictional novel.So, why the 4 stars?
I wanted to like this book; Meissner attempted to deftly weave similarities between a woman living and working in 1911's NYC and a woman living/working in present-day NYC (having suffered a tragedy in the 9/11 terrorist attacks).I felt the parts dealing with the present-day (and the near-past flashbacks to 9/11) were handled fairly well; they felt raw, real, and organic.
A brief stint turned into months of near-isolation as Clara attempted to move past the tragedy that has now overtaken her life.Clara, to me, is a weak and unrealistic character.
I loved this book!
The characters and their stories are woven together like the marigold scarf.
I have not read any other books by this author, but I plan on doing so.
I am looking forward to the book's release.
My Goodreads copy is missing 10 pages, so I cannot finish the book!
I am waiting to see how the author puts the final stitch in this wonderful book.
I am sure it will be as beautiful as the rest of the story's marigold scarf.
I was able to get a new copy of the book.
But what really got my goat was when I came across this line from Clara, speaking about the precious scarf which plays such a big role in the novel:"Before I left for Scotland I would burn Lily's letter and ask Dolly to give the scarf to one of the poorer women in the wards."What???
Bad. By that point, I was more interested in that scarf than I was in Clara's story.Taryn is the other main character, who reveals her connection to the scarf and her life situation as it relates to 9/11.
There were certainly parts of the story that I really liked, but I felt that too much time was given to Clara (and a lot of it was repetitive) and not enough time was given to Taryn to really flush out her story.
Both women's stories deal with tragedies in NYC a hundred years apart.Spending time with Clara on Ellis Island was informative to me, although I do think the author put a gloss on the hospital care (I could be wrong, I wasn't there).
Having said that, I thought Clara was pretty weak most of the time and her friends handled her with kid gloves, for something that I thought was pretty lame.
On the 10th anniversary of the tragedy, a photo of her and the man who saved her that day is published in a national magazine and brings back all the feelings that she kept buried about that day.The book alternates between the two women’s stories, but more attention is given to Clara’s story than to Taryn’s story, which is too bad.
Clara, Taryn and other characters must deal with the loss of loved ones in their own ways, and others seemingly judge them for this.
The issue of telling someone something they need to know drags on a bit too long, but comes to a satisfying conclusion.Overall this is a good read.
Interesting stories. I liked learning about Ellis Island and the immigration process in 1911. Clara suffered a traumatic event. I think that’s why she grieved losing Edward so long. Not because of losing Edward himself or even the dream of what might be but because of the trauma. It was her way of subconsciously grieving all that she witnessed. I liked how everything came together at the end. This is the first book I’ve read by this author. I will keep my eye out for more.
Clara is an unbelievable woman, in love with a man who is kind to her in an elevator where she works and pining for him after he dies in the Triangle Shirtwaist Fire.
Taryn's story parallels Clara's in that she loses her love in the 2001 World Trade Center attack.
I did enjoy how Meissner had these two episodes in juxtaposition, and I was curious how the scarf got to Taryn.
After slogging through 85% of the book, Meissner finally turns to Taryn and quickly sums up her story and how the scarf was in her possession.
In A Fall of Marigolds, Meissner beautifully weaves the delicate stories of two women living during different centuries, experiencing events unique to their respective time in history.
Like Kristin Hannah's The Nightingale or Jodi Picoult's The Storyteller, Meissner meticulously switches between the alternating story lines, enticing the reader to the edge of her seat.
This was a wonderful stay-up-all night to finish kind of read.
I was "just got goosebumps" surprised at a few points, crying in places, and jotting down lovely quotes at others.
Overall though, I loved this book!
I highly recommend A Fall of Marigolds to everyone!
Perfect for book club reads.
First off this was listed as Christian fiction but that doesn't really matter because this is just a beautiful and lovely read.
Two stories told a hundred years apart, one story is about Clara Wood, a young nurse who witnesses the heartbreaking tragedy at The Triangle Shirtwaist Fire in 1911 that continues to have a gripping affect on her life as she tries to move on.
Again, this was listed as Christian fiction and for some who may avoid it because they think this may be a preachy, faith infused novel have no fear, it's just a wonderfully touching book that shouldn't be missed.
"Everything beautiful has a story it wants to tell.""Beauty is truth, truth beauty.""Sometimes the expectation is better than the fulfillment."Susan Meissner's A Fall of Marigolds is a beautifully woven story of two women living in different centuries experiencing horrific, tragic events: The Triangle Shirtwaist Fire of 1911 and The 2001 World Trade Centre attack.
Both story lines are engaging, emotional and thought provoking.
For me, the 1911 plot was most engaging.
Both events are skillfully linked by a beautiful scarf.This fascinating story has strong female characters, love, loss, and eventually recovery.
This well written novel 'begs' the reader to ask What if.....I look forward to reading her next novel.
Two women, Taryn and Clara, lived a century apart, yet there were such parallels between the two women’s lives.
Both felt an extreme amount of guilt over the loss of their loved one, feeling that had they not done or said a certain thing, that person would have been in a completely different place during the tragedy and gotten out alive.
Taryn's husband Kent worked in the Twin Towers and died the 9/11 disaster.
Clara watched Edward, the man she loved, jump to his death from the 10th floor of the burning building in The Triangle Shirtwaist Fire.
Another one bites the dust.
Since this book is for a book club that meets tonight and I am only a little over 25% finished AND I don't really like it, I am conceding the race.The writing was average.
I can't believe this woman has 13 books under her belt.
It is apparent to me that, as she said in a YouTube Video, she didn't know anyone in publishing, she didn't have an agent or a network of colleagues, and she hadn't attended any writers' conferences.
Except that I kept finding every excuse under the sun to NOT read it.
I have to do anything other than read this boring-a$$ book."
Two horrific New York City tragedies, the Triangle Shirtwaist Fire of 1911 and the 2001 World Trade Center attacks, are linked to each other in this novel via two unacquainted women and a beautiful scarf that passes through their hands.
The story is compelling, filled with difficult ethical dilemmas, lost loves, and survivors' guilt.
I liked how the two separate stories framed each other throughout, and how the women ultimately managed to find their way out of the darkness of their individual tragedies, although the 9/11 conclusion was admittedly a tad of a stretch.
Would be a good book club selection.
This is my third book by Susan Meissner.
I enjoy how she writes and I've now purchased several more of her books to read!
This particular story follows two women in two different times who both tragically lost loved ones.
You relive those experiences with each girl and that was rough.
There is absolutely a happy ending for both women so you end off feeling good, but you just need to know it's a heartbreaking story and definitely had me in tears at one point.
More than anything I enjoyed learning about Ellis Island in 1911, a piece of history I really knew nothing about.
So today she’s working and living above the shop trying to raise their daughter.Then her worst nightmare comes true, a picture of her among the ashes of the twin towers emerges 10 years later and she is finally going to have to face the truth about the day she lost her husband and the day that left her unborn child fatherless.
How is she going to be able to tell her daughter the truth of that day when she can’t even face it?On the day of the attack Tayrn is running late because of a client and a scarf that she wants matched up to some fabric and if not for that scarf she and the unborn child would have perished among the ashes.
