https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14116.Beauty_and_the_Beast
I learned about this book from a good friend's blog and went straight to Amazon to find a used copy. Much to my delight, it looks to be a first edition from 1978 (although I'm not sure how many editions there are). The cover was in horrible condition when it arrived as it was falling to pieces. I went ahead and did some tape repair on it. I normally don't like to do that, but this is a book I would like to have available for my children for years to come.I found this version retold by Marianna
I normally don't like to do that, but this is a book I would like to have available for my children for years to come.I found this version retold by Marianna Mayer to be fairly simliar to the original French tale.
Before he leaves, he asks the children what items they would like him to bring back for them and Beauty asks for a simple rose.While heading through the forest on his trip, the merchant comes to a beautiful palace.
We enjoyed the parts of the tale that my children found different from the Beauty and the Beast they are familiar with.
When I was on my K.Y. Craft binge, I read two of Marianna Mayer's picture books that K.Y. had illustrated (The Twelve Dancing Princesses and Baba Yaga and Vasilisa the Brave).
They were my favorite ones story-wise, so I looked into more Marianna Mayer.
When I first laid eyes upon this beautiful edition of Beauty and the Beast, I fell in love.
The illustrations are so dark, rich, romantic.
Mercer Mayer?
Mercer Mayer?
"Little Critter" Mercer Mayer??
Those books were my childhood!
Though the Little Critter illustrations are cute (and filled with nostalgia), I was blown away that Mercer Mayer illustrated Beauty and the Beast!
My older son noticed an Egyptian motif theme in the illustrations: statue of Ra on the palace gate, scarab beetle in the black horse's halter, Horus's statue in the garden with hieroglyphs on the base, Anubis carved into the chair backs in the dining room, a sphinx in the palace hall, along with cartouches carved on the balcony and pharaoh-masks on the pillar.
I am not sure why the Egyptian theme appears in Beauty and the Beast, but if Mercer Mayer is as taken with Egyptian designs and artwork as my son, then that explains it.
The Beast was my first crush. Yet I resented his metamorphosis. *shakes fist at transfiguring power of love* Nowadays it just seems a literalism of anthropomorphism. I wanna blame Disney. *sulks*
I just love the art in this book, I was given "East Of The Sun, And West Of The Moon",the art work is the same in that story as well. The story is a nice version I don't mind reading to my four year old, with wonderfully alive and moving illustration that didn't scare her. Over all I think this is definitely a new favorite.
Find this review and many more at That Artsy Reader Girl!I really, really loved this beautifully illustrated version of the classic Beauty and the Beast tale.
Anyway, this book was actually the very first time I read what the traditional tale was like rather than the Disney version.
There are repeated refrains in this story of the beast pleading Beauty to marry him, and her refusing.
There are also repeated story elements of Beauty having various dreams.
I can't believe the same person who wrote and illustrated the Little Critter books also illustrated this one!
All in all, I loved this version of the story!
There was a wealthy merchant that lived with his three daughters and three sons.
The merchant promised his children gifts in return and promised Beauty a rose.
While returning home, the merchant lost his way back home and came across a castle in the forest.
As he was taking the rose the Beast roared and was upset that the merchant decided to steal from him after he provided his shelter and food.
The merchant promised one of his daughters to the Beast in exchange for his life.
When the merchant returned home Beauty decided to go to the castle to be with the prince.
My favorite fairy tale. Viscerally haunting, almost inappropriately passionate for something I fell in love with when I was six.
One of my favorite fairy tales, and I love Mercer Mayer's illustrations.
The tale of beauty and the beast.
Where everyone but the sisters thrive until the assumed return of fortune by the location of the Merchant's lost ships.
Also Beauty is dreaming about the prince and learning his story way, not to mention the fairy's voice is speaking to her trying to give her a hint on how to break the spell.
(view spoiler)[ It was interesting to me that when she continuously rejected the beast she eventually lost the prince in her dreams as well.
Overall not a bad version of beauty and the beast, a bit more involved then I expected.
The traditional version of Disney’s beloved Beauty and the Beast is even more beautiful in text. The story would be intriguing for young readers both girl and boy and included vocabulary both within their realm of knowledge as well as a bit more challenging. While this story is much more wordy than the common picture book, the detail and complexity of the illustrations makes it that much more worth it. While this book is slightly different from the movies it still stays true to the overall message.
The characters are nicely defined and the story moves along gracefully.
I only wish that there were pictures on each page spread.
There's way more prose than picture so I'm not sure it will hold the attention of little ones.Ages: 7 - 10Cleanliness: the word "stupid" appears in the story.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
This beautifully illustrated edition of the fairy tale classic is a must for any literary lover. Lush and deeply colored, Marianna Mayer and Mercer Mayer bring the romance to the forefront in this timeless tale. https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1...https://www.goodreads.com/author/show...https://www.goodreads.com/author/show...
Beautifully illustrated retelling of the classic fairy tale. However this version has one slight change from those I'm familiar with — in addition to her two older sisters, Beauty also has three brothers. A reader could spend hours examining over the details of the illustrations. Highly recommended.
This is a picture book retelling of the classic Beauty and the Beast story. It was written and illustrated a few years before the animated Disney movie, so adheres to the version in which Beauty has two wicked sisters. The illustrations are lush and detailed and very romantic. Although intended for children, anyone with an appreciation of Mercer Mayer's artwork will enjoy this one.
This is a great retelling of the traditional tale. I honestly was not expecting the story to differ from the Disney version of Beauty and the Beast. I personally prefer this version over the Disney version. I believe this will give students the opportunity to explore the origins of different tales.
Interesting version of the story. Similar to a really old cartoon version I watched in childhood. I really like the drawings. I checked this out from the library mainly for the drawings and the beautiful cover! I originally gave this three stars, however, changed it to four because of the beautiful drawings!
Five stars isn't enough for this book. I loved it!
Pretty enough, but very wordy for a picture book (and I much preferred the Kinuko Craft illustrations in the other Beauty and the Beast I read recently).
Beauty decides to go willingly, but while at first she cannot bring herself to accept the Beast's continuned proposals of marriage, she soon learns that appearances can be deceiving.It's hard to find the original version of this story, so for my Disney source material read-through series I found the ones that seemed like they most closely followed the oldest and most well-known telling.
I think it's always going to be hard to get the Beast just right without looking a bit silly at times (though Disney seemed to do just fine), but generally this was a really beautifully illustrated telling of a familiar and well-beloved story.
The book, while very different from the movie I love so much, stayed true to that central message so I very much enjoyed it.
Overall I thought it was a very good story that children, particularly those who love fairy tales, would enjoy hearing.Mercer Mayer did the illustrations for this book, and while there are a few things I would change, overall he did a great job on them.
I think his attention to little details made the illustrations very interesting to look at and kept the eyes engaged.
As a child I absolutely loved the classic Disney movie of “Beauty and the Beast”.
“Beauty and the Beast” by Marianna Mayer tells the traditional tale of Belle who falls in love with a Beast.
While the book and movie of “Beauty and the Beast” follow the same plot line, the book is more about Belle’s inner transformation.
However, as book focuses on Belle’s inner transformation the Disney movie it is more concerned with the Beast’s outer transformation from a Beast into a handsome prince.I think this story is great for all ages.
Beauty finds him and offers herself for her father's freedom.
The Beast accepts the offer because he is really a prince under a spell and he knows Belle is his only hope of breaking the spell.
In fact, Belle begins to see his kind inside and falls in love with him.
At the end of the story Belle speaks the words "I love you" to the beast before the last petal of an enchanted rose fell, and the beast magically turned into a handsome prince.
The story was not only inspiring but the illustrations were awesome as well.
740L
Growing up Beauty and the Beast has been my favorite fairy tale.
I am sure many know the story line of Beauty and the Beast.
But the way the illustrations and the writings in this short story capture you is amazing.
Beauty and the Beast of a girl named Belle.
The beautiful girl was more or less fearless.
Belle didn’t look at the outside of the beast, she looked inside of him, and saw all his good.
This fairy tale is exciting and magical.
The illustrations are amazing as mentioned, but I believe this famous fairy tale would be perfect for a classroom setting.
The way, in which the illustrations are drawn with such detail and color, I was fascinated and wanted to continue to read the book.
However, I think almost everyone at some point or another has come across this tale.
The storyline is about a girl, named Belle, who learns to love a scary looking beast for his inner beauty as oppose to his outer beauty.
Everyone has different physical features, but our real focus should be on the inner beauty because that’s where the real beauty lies.
If people, not just children, could understand this concept then I think there would be major decrease in depression and low self-esteem.
I read "Beauty and the Beast" retold by Marianna Mayer.
Beauty agrees to stay and lives out her life at the Beast's castle.
I would use this in a younger classroom, such as first or second, as a read aloud and then watch the Beauty and the Beast Disney movie.
I would then have students draw up a Venn Diagram and have the students compare and contrast similarities and differences.
Students would then write one to two paragraphs about their Venn Diagram findings comparing the two and stating which they enjoyed more.
Loving Marianna Mayer's previous fairy tales that I have read and enjoying Mercer Mayer I expected to delight in this one, but I didn't really.
For the age that I'm reading most of these fairy tales, having two full picture book pages of just text with not even a scroll of illustration for a focus point it would lose my little girl's attention.
By the time that she would really be reading on her own I think she'd rather hold something shaped like a chapter book than a picture book.
If this one were in the shape of a chapter book I think it would be fabulous.
