https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13642950-the-aviator-s-wife
Fascinating story.......Charles Lindbergh had three additional families in Germany....
Anne Morrow.....Ambassador's daughter, College educated, Aviator's Wife, mother of six children, author, and pilot, .......was enthralled and imprisoned being married to Charles A.
Both Charles and Anne suffered public opinions for a period of time.
For those who have not read this book---late to the party like me---this is a page turning compelling story.
I got the book from the library- and started reading this DRAMATIC STORY!
I learned about the kidnapping & killing of Ann and Charles first born child.
This is one WIFE book worth reading!
Rating = 2.5 starsThe Lindberghs had been married for almost 40 years when Tammy Wynette sang "Stand By Your Man" in 1968, but it's a song Anne Morrow Lindbergh could have written about her relationship with aviation pioneer Charles Lindbergh.
Anne Lindbergh narrates her own story in this novel, but Charles inevitably dominates their shared stage.
I knew the press had been relentless after what happened to Charles Junior, but I'd been unaware of how they'd been deprived of privacy for most of their married life.The first part of the book was difficult to get through.
Anne's fawning, giddy worship of Charles reads like an unromantic historical romance.
Really strong Historical fiction.
At first I didn't think I liked how anti-feminist it seemed to be, but then it really knocked me on my ass and became a really strong female empowerment story.
I really didn't know much about the Lindbergh's and only had a small interest in them.
But what I found most fascinating was the outlines aabout the birth of the paparazzi in their story.
When you make it to the end be sure you read the Author's Note.
The extra reading recomendations sent me straight to the shelves of The Strand to find out more!
This was an engrossing, fascinating and educative novel!This book tells the story of Anne Morrow Lindbergh.
I was shocked to learn that she was an accomplished pilot herself – she became the first licensed female glider pilot in the United States.In the Author’s Note, Melanie Benjamin writes “As a historical novelist, the most gratifying thing I hear is that the reader was inspired, after reading my work of fiction, to research these remarkable people’s lives further.
I hope my novel accomplishes this….” Melanie Benjamin, I can assure you that you have accomplished your goal with this reader!
My interest has definitely been piqued to learn more about Anne Morrow Lindbergh.
How does one rate a book in which the author does such a wonderful job with the story---but to the point that one dislikes the characters?
While I really enjoyed Benjamin's writing style---and look forward to her next venture into historical fiction---I almost put the book down without finishing it because Charles Lindbergh was such a misogynistic, anti-Semitic, narcissistic creep.
To be fair, neither of the Lindberghs seemed to have many redeeming qualities by the end of the book.My rating for Benjamin as an author would be a 4/5, while the story and characters really only deserve a 2 or 3/5.
The Aviator's WifebyMelanie BenjaminMy " in a nutshell" summary...This is a novel about Anne Morrow...how she met and married Charles Lindbergh and the life they shared..the joys...their sorrows...their tragedies.
And she was the daughter that Charles Lindbergh felt he should spend his life with.
I think that I knew about Charles Lindbergh without really having any curiosity about his life or his wife.
Anne was a saint for sticking with him...at first...I thought it was weakness but now I think it was strength that made her stay.Final thoughts...I loved this author's way with words...her research...this book was a novel that felt real.
This is the story of the relationship between Anne and Charles Lindberg told from her perspective.
UPDATE: I wanted to add a more thoughtful review because I have been thinking about this book so much since I read it.
While I have not read this book, it's amazing that it's about love, marriage, and aging.
It just goes to show how forward thinking she was and how brilliant she was.Some people would read this and just focus on all you can learn from the historical aspect of their lives.
Instead, she lurks in her husband's shadow, utterly incapable of forming her own opinions of things, incorporating his isolationist, anti-Semitic feelings into her own worldview, despite knowing otherwise.On the other hand, she was often a sympathetic character: the kidnapping of her first born, the utterly foolish and asinine way her husband dealt with the kidnapping, and having to live the rest of her life with grown men writing to her, pretending to be her missing son.
It was truly a life where heartache balanced out her privilege.
This book is a work of fiction based on the life of Anne Morrow Lindbergh, wife of the famous aviator, Charles Lindbergh.
I have read a few true crime books speculating on that case, and of course some insight was given as to what Anne and Charles were like behind closed doors.
But, I’ve never read any kind of biography of the either Anne or Charles, so I was curious how the author would portray them.I think many people were given the impression Anne was a quiet, shy lady, highly educated and articulate, and dignified.
I was impressed by this intimate portrait of Anne Morrow and think perhaps Melanie Benjamin has this historical fiction thing down to a science.
Unfortunately this book didn't just have a slow start it had clunky, redundant, dull and uninspired writing throughout.Benjamin writes the story as if Anne Morrow Lindbergh is looking back remembering the events of her life with her famous husband as he is about to pass from this world.
It didn't sound like the voice of a privileged, well educated, author and that was distracting, it gave the whole story a lack of authenticity.The other thing that was distracting to me was the redundancy of certain characterizations without any elaboration or variation.
The historical events are all true, but did Anne Morrow Lindbergh really think the way “The Aviator's Wife” thought?
Benjamin read them, but points out in her author's notes that they were "helpfully" formed and edited by Charles himself, and seemed written to keep his legacy alive.
Benjamin has written the emotional side of things from her imagination.I have to remember that The Aviator's Wife is a work of historical fiction.
The two main characters, Charles and Anne are both studies in the dichotomy of human thought.
Aside from the aviation genius and hero that he was, Charles Lindbergh was a Nazi sympathizer, an outspoken anti-semite, a cold and demanding father, and an unfaithful husband.
The story is told through the eyes of Anne Morrow Lindbergh, an aviatrix on her own, a beloved writer, mother who lost her first child tragically in the famous kidnapping in 1932, and raised her 5 later children virtually alone.
(Norman Schwarzkopf's father was the lead investigating officer in the kidnapping, for instance.) Anne refused to be buried in Hawaii next to her husband, preferring to be cremated instead.
2/24/13: If you want to read about Anne Morrow Lindbergh's life, please, please read it in her own words and not this greatly fictionalized account.
Starting with Bring Me a Unicorn and Hour of Gold, Hour of Lead, it will tell you all of her thoughts and feelings upon meeting, marrying and adventuring with Charles, and takes you through the horrible experience of her baby's kidnapping.
I don't need someone portraying Charles as unloving and unsympathetic when I can read Anne's own thoughts about his grief and loving sympathy towards her.
I don't need an author telling me how horrible Charles' mother was when I can read Anne's loving letters to her.
Anne Morrow.....who did marry and who married a famous man....Charles Lindbergh, behind whom she continued to be a shadow.Anne's life was beautifully detailed by Ms. Benjamin in terms of Anne's feelings and personality especially during the kidnapping.
Ms. Benjamin will definitely get you involved in the story through her outstanding, exceptional, in-depth writing style.I enjoyed reading about the era and about Anne Morrow and Charles Lindbergh.
Anne did come out of the shadows as she aged and was actually a very strong woman.I thoroughly enjoyed the book, but don't think a man would enjoy it simply because of the domestic factors and the details of Anne Morrow's family and all of their lives.
In the event that you are not familiar with the Lindbergh kidnapping, this review might seem a bit spoilerish.
I have to admit this was a bit of a slog at first, Anne was such a wimp doing whatever Lindbergh wanted, she really was just a shadow behind her famous husband, and I almost threw in the towel.
Glad I didn't give up, because there's a lot more to Anne's story and her later years after Charles tucked her and their children away in the country and he kept on gallivanting around the world.
I knew a little about Charles Lindbergh and after this book I have a different perspective of him.
Even if he wasn’t home, things had to be ran the way he wanted it.
The kids had to follow very detailed schedules, they had books they were supposed to read and Ann was supposed to keep inventory of everything in the house including how many shampoo bottles there were while he flew around the world having affairs and children out of wedlock.
She also ran things while Charles was gone.
But she also seemed to put Charles before anything else including herself.
Find the enhanced version of this and other reviews at: http://flashlightcommentary.blogspot....I was excited about getting the chance to read The Aviator's Wife before the official release.
What I wasn't expecting was how much I would outright enjoy Melanie Benjamin's interpretation of Anne Morrow Lindbergh.
Benjamin's book is of course a fiction, but it still offers an interesting glimpse at the hurdles she must have faced.
The Aviator's Wife is really about the strength the real Anne exhibited to the world, the courage and fortitude that kept her and Charles together even as the most private moments of their lives graced headlines around the globe.
I was so looking forward to reading this fictional account of the life of Anne Morrow Lindbergh.
What made it more irritating was that the life of Anne Morrow and Charles Lindbergh needs no enhancement to make it interesting or compelling.What struck me the most was how little of the essence of Anne Benjamin seemed to capture.
Anyone trying to imagine what life must have been like for these two people after the sensationalized events surrounding the kidnapping and murder of their first child must certainly have some difficulties.
It's the story of a woman trying to find her own voice and her own life.
By the time the Lindberghs returned to America disillusioned of the Nazis they were shunned.
His repeated requests to assist the government were denied until Henry Ford came to his aid.That's only a drop in the bucket of event lived by Anne Morrow Lindbergh.
She supported the "hero" who came to depend on her more and more.
She made a life she wanted that was in no one's shadow.I believe all women should read this book and young women need to know women heroes like Anne Morrow Lindbergh.
Anne is drawn as weak, without self-reliance and totally dominated by her husband.
I base my belief in Anne’s strength having read articles on internet and the two books Lindbergh and Gift from the Sea. The latter is written by Anne.
The book includes the latest information about Charles Lindbergh’s (view spoiler)[infidelities.
(hide spoiler)]There is an author’s note that explains what is fact and what fiction.
The book is written by a contemporary author for today's readers, particularly women readers.
In summary, I do not feel this book gives an accurate picture of Anne.
Anne Morrow, the quiet daughter of a U.S. ambassador, was thrilled to be invited for a plane ride piloted by Charles Lindbergh.
After they were married in 1929, Charles brought adventure into Anne's life as she earned her pilot's license and flew as co-pilot on many important flights with him.
As Anne reached middle age she learned to create her own happiness, and find her own voice as an author.Melanie Benjamin really brought Anne Morrow Lindbergh to life in her well-written book.
This is a brilliant account of what very well may have been the life of Anne Morrow Lindburgh.
Since it is a novel, we know it isn't all fact.
But Benjamin has certainly hit the nail on the head.
I will always think of Anne as she is portrayed here.
Many novels are touted to be like THE PARIS WIFE or LOVING FRANK, in that they are as good.
But this one truly is.I can't wait to begin handselling it at the store.
Cudos to you, Melanie Benjamin.
You have hit the jackpot with this one!!
I really loved it.Prior to reading this historical fiction novel, I knew very little about the Lindberghs; only that he was a record setting aviator and that they had a child whom had been kidnapped for ransom money...and I knew absolutely nothing about Charles' remarkable wife, Anne.
If that is also the case for you, I recommend NOT familiarizing yourself with the details of their life prior to reading this novel, as it is more enjoyable when you do not already know how everything will end.This is essentially a story about a fascinating but flawed (how human of him) hero with striking Asperger tendencies that finds Anne and recognizes she will make an effectual martial partner, and how Anne slowly grows and eventually steps out of a perpetual shadow (of her father, sister, husband) to become her own person.
3.5 Charles Lindbergh and his wife Anne are the subject of this new novel by Benjamin.
Anne, had always been the good and responsible daughter, when Charles asks her to marry him she thinks she is the luckiest person alive.
Despite this I did not much like Anne either, though I did feel sorry for her.
The fact that she has made me feel all this while reading this book is to the author's credit.
Love that Benjamin brings to light characters not over written in history, by this I mean Anne not Charles.
I was so excited to read this book but was extremely let down by the story.
This book did not engage me the same way as the Paris Wife by Paula McLain.
I was outraged when Charles pressured Anne to publicly support his advocacy for the Nazi ideals; even though she did not share his beliefs.
The author wrote in a way that allowed the reader to really feel the sadness and hurt of Anne Marrow.
You felt her pain but there were times I wanted shake Anne and smack Charles.
I was annoyed that story made Anne appear clueless to Charles' disappearances and infidelities.
Charles Lindbergh, the aviation pioneer, is a reserved, complicated man, and a difficult husband to manage, particularly after the horrific kidnapping and murder of their firstborn child.
The novel doesn't lack for plot - the Lindberghs lived through extraordinary times, and were some of the most extraordinary people of their time - but the most gripping aspect of the book is the tension within Anne herself as she begins to find her own voice and to define herself as someone other than The Aviator's Wife.
As the book opened, I wasn't sure if I would even like reading about them but had loved a previous book by Melanie Benjamin (Alice I Have Been) and wanted to give this a try.
I loved learning about their family through her eyes.
In both good & bad ways.
I felt for Anne and thought we could've been friends.
I have now become a "fan girl" of Melanie Benjamin -- her writing has a way of transporting you to another time and place and landing you smack dab in the middle of the characters and their adventures.
I knew it will be one of my favorites for 2013 and it was.
I knew very little about the marriage of Charles Lindbergh and Anne Morrow Lindbergh - I of course knew about his flight to Paris in The Spirit of St. Louis and the kidnapping of their baby but had no idea that they had 5 other children or that Anne was an accomplished pilot and traveled with him as his co-pilot in the early years of aviation mapping routes still used by airlines.
He had many accomplishments and some failures not only in his political beliefs but as a husband and parent.
I've been reading this book off and on for over 3-4 weeks, as it is my book clubs December book to read. I actually suggested it as no one in our group had read it. Man, what a downer this is. I'm bored. Nothing really is grabbing and holding my attention with this book. I hope someone from the group is enjoying this, or this month's choice is a sure let down.
Advanced Reader’s Copy: Expected publish date is listed as Jan 15 2013 by Random House Publishing Group, under the imprint of Delacorte PressThis is not the first time out of the box for Melanie Benjamin, and it shows in every line.“The Aviator’s Wife” is a wonderfully drawn character exploration of Anne Morrow Lindbergh, who’s accomplishments are mostly dwarfed by those of her famous husband and the tragic loss of her eldest child.
I somehow doubt there has ever been a husband who required his pretty socialite wife learn to navigate via sextant!Then the infamous kidnapping, destroying everything past, and the world is never the same, but continues nonetheless.
