https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/996552.At_Wit_s_End
Our car got jammed in the parking lot.I was too tired to cook, so we stopped at some shops on the way home and—exhibiting a penchant for planning that surprised even us—bought hummus and baba ghanoush for dinner, and then couldn’t find pita bread.
Plus, the way she writes about grandmothers, or the first day of sending a child off to school, or of the Christmas gifts made by children for their mothers—that was so poignant and so lovely, it actually brought a lump to my throat.
Lighthearted, humorous, and with some nuggets of wisdom. Exactly the sort of book I was needing to read.
The writing is wonderful. The reflections are quirky, sarcastic, humorous and at times passionately divine. My favorite moments were the stamp collection… the golf game… and I squealed laughing on that part about ‘why the bass weren’t biting’. Men vs women on road trips gave me a good laugh, even if that one, sarcastic as it was, was kind of true. Bombeck’s memoir is definitely worth reading, given how initially I was at my wit’s end reading what started out mounting to the ‘boredom of housewifery,’ all to catch me by surprise culminating in truly redeeming testimonies ...and ending.
I love Erma's books!
While other kids were sneakily reading the latest issue of Batman or Archie & Veronica comic books between the pages of their schoolbooks during class I was trying not to get caught laughing too loudly at the pages of the latest book by humorist author Erma Bombeck.
Its safe to say that I grew up with her books and her name, and stories, just like V.C. Andrews', another author I grew up reading, brings back a lot of good reading memories.
Erma, and her writing, will be dearly missed.
I love Erma Bombeck.
Her stories sparkle with and insight and are perfect for reading aloud.
Not only that, but she is laugh-out-loud funny!
In this particular book, I enjoyed her struggles with the car that was a piece of junk that only understood German (how a car can understand human language is beyond me).
One thing I love about Erma's books is that I feel that I know the Bombecks personally.
It's like I'm over at their house with the kids.
Erma is everybody's mom- frazzled, cynical at times, always loving.
Although the book is one of her older ones, much of it is still relevant today. Parts of it made me get all teary-eyed and other parts had me laughing. This was the first Erma Bombeck book I've read and I look forward to reading more by her. One of my favorite quotes is when she talks about problems with getting one's midriff toned: "If I can’t tighten up the muscles in time for beach exposure perhaps I can use it for a snack tray."
Erma Bombeck, a typical Ohio housewife and mother, first made a name for herself as a humour writer in the 1960's. In this, her first book, she guides us through the typical depression cycles that plague the modern housewife (and cover every day of the year). She rallies gamely to the challenges of husbands, children, housework, birth control and awkward social situations, and treats them with resignation and humour. Her wit and wisdom are just as warm, relevant and enjoyable today as they were over 40 years ago when she wrote them.
My first Kindle library book! The checkout procedure was incredibly easy. I'm so glad this is now an option!As for the book itself, I was somewhat disappointed. I imagine that when it was written it was groundbreaking and hilarious. It's still somewhat funny, but the large number of snarky bloggers that Bombeck has inspired--whether they know it or not--are more current and, I think, funnier. Since I have limited reading time, I decided not to finish this.
The book mused about the lives of stay-at-home suburban moms while their husbands went off to work as the family's sole breadwinner.
The author described the less appealing aspects of being a stay-at-home mom.
Ms. Bombeck's book has evolved into a more nostalgic piece of work.
Alf Landon, William Powell, Myrna Loy, John Hall and Sabu, Bert Lahr, and a Jack Armstrong signet ring are examples of people gracing the pages of Ms. Bombeck's work who would likely give Jeopardy contestants flop sweat.'At Wit's End' is a quick undemanding book and an enjoyable read for people who like to indulge in yesteryear.
This book really opened up my eyes. It got to the core of my personal issues. The author was very insightful about writing this book. I loved how real she was with opening up and telling us our story. The book was very funny and amusing though, getting to see inside Erma's life.
Erma Bombeck at her best. Her kind wit is hilarious and very touching. Nostalgic.
This is a step back in time but much of the humor still stands. I read most of her other books when I was a working Mom of three. Now those girls are all grown up and I have a couple of grandkids. Thanks for the laughs Erma RIP
Originally copyrighted in 1965, this was Bombeck’s first book.
These chapters will not tell you how to overcome these depression cycles.
I laughed aloud at certain parts (shopping for a bathing suit), I was amused by much of it, and I was touched by a few of her essays (especially her thoughts as her youngest child goes off to school for the first time).
On the whole, however, I was not so in love with the book as I remember being in love with Bombeck’s columns.
Her drawings are a delightful visual interpretation of Bombeck’s observations.
I love her sincerity, her wit, and the way in which she candidly tells about the ups and downs of her life.
It was certainly a good, light book to break up a string of heavy stories.interesting quotes:"Another challenge for a mother who must make a decision not to measure her own children's happiness with another mother's yardstick." (p.
They occupy such a unique place in the life of a child.
They can shed the yoke of responsibility, relax, and enjoy their grandchildren in a way that was not possible when they were raising their own children.
I first started it with excitement after just finding out about Erma Bombeck and her writings on motherhood.
I really liked the end though, where she explained why she wrote this book.
She made those remarks on motherhood 50 years ago and they're still valid: if you're a stay at home mom, you're a loser, and if you're a working mom, you don't like your kids and there's something wrong with you.
The struggles are pretty much the same, which is striking!I'd recommend this book for a good laugh on motherhood.
I'll definitely read more from Bombeck.
Unfortunately, I just waited way too long to finally get around to reading this!!
There were some redeeming parts in the book, a few places where I actually did get a little laugh but strangely enough...Ms. Bombeck had a few portions of the book where she actually was actually very serious, talking about how precious her children were and how hard she tried to raise them properly so that they would turn out to be productive citizens.
This portion of the book really resonated with me and almost brought me to tears.
I may read another one but it will be a bit.
It was amusing, but not as funny as I hoped it would be, probably because I cannot relate to many of the situations described in the book.
I suppose a housewife, or at the very least a parent would enjoy this book as it finds humor in domestic experiences, but it doesn't do much for me as a single person.
She knows how to use hyperbole to comic effect, as when she described her husband's early morning sensitivity to noises such as the "crash of marshmallows as they hit the hot chocolate." The exaggeration can get a little too much at times, though, coming off as nagging.
This book is almost 50 years old and the fact that it is still funny (and it is funny) is a testament to the fact that there are many universal and timeless truths to raising kids and parenthood.
There are some elements that are dated (real telephones!) and some topics that have since been well tread (although I'm guessing many have used her material as their starting point on these topics) but still entertaining.
My only complaint is that is feels like someone wrote down a series of stand-up comedy routines, and as such the topics shift frequently and abruptly.
I don't think I have laughed this hard at a book since I don't even know when.
I was laughing in research period and probably all the rest of the kids thought I was dying.
This book was seriously the funniest thing ever.
Read it.
Read it whenever you are having a bad day or whenever people around you are starting to get the impression that you are normal.
It is always a treat in a page and a half, takes a minute to read, makes your day.
THere is ot one bad thing in this book.
Osittain ihan nasevaa ja hauskaa sanailua, osittain meni vähän yliampuvaksi. Teksti tuntui hetkittäin aika vanhahtavalle, mikä on tietysti luonnollista, kun kirja on kirjoitettu 44 vuotta sitten. Itselleni eniten hupia tuotti kohta, jossa kotirouva yrittää laajentaa sanavarastoaan valitsemalla sanakirjasta umpimähkään joka päivälle 'Päivän sanan'. Ideana oli ujuttaa tuo sana päivän aikana vähintään viiteen keskusteluun. Tuota voisi kokeilla itsekin esimerkiksi töissä - voisiko viisi kertaa puhua tse-tse -kärpäsestä pokerin pettämättä?!
I remember reading this book during my insanity years when Zach and Nate were both babies. Erma was a voice I could hear and I thank her immensely. The stories were short, made me laugh, and then I could sleep. Until one of them woke up, which then always woke up the other one. It was literally as though they were connected in some way. But Erma and I made it through. Of course, Randy was there also.
I read this to help with my mother/housewife character in my 60s novel. I definitely got some good ideas, or at least my memory of how it was is refreshed. Some of it was even funny. I recall my mother had it pretty easy then, washing on Mon., ironing on Tues, bathrooms on Wed., floors on Thursdays, and grocery shopping on Fridays when I do it ALL on the weekend to get ready for the work week as a high school teacher. Except ironing--who has time to iron?
It was nice to reread it after at least a 20 year gap since I last read it. You gotta love Erma Bombeck's somewhat exaggerated take on the life of a housewife, but I do think she got some of it right - esp. the bit about the nesting instinct taking over every autumn. Mother or not, it seems most women feel this way, at least I do, so she was definitely spot on there.
I really like Karen Fowler's expression form at many points... where an inner voice opens an odd inflection on a scene element that mihgt otherwise remain merely pedestrian. However... for some reason the whole story just did not really take with me and I ended with a ho hum feel even though the prose made me smile.
Totally loved reading this book. Copyright 1965 - but the humor is fresh in 2016 - and I laughed real belly laughs many times; and most of the time, at the least, it was plain funny. And there is truth to the humor, which is why it struck a chord with me. It has to do with family and neighbor relations, and one's relationship to oneself, too. My review doesn't do it justice.
I feel At Wit's End very often. Erma Bombeck and her thoughts on the housewife job. Now my book was published in the late 1960's, before I was born. I enjoyed reading this book and remembering some of the things my mother would say. Erma writes about what most women think when they are married and have children. I enjoyed the laughs while I read and also remembering my mother.
This was not Mrs Bombeck's best book that I've read, but it was enjoyable. I did feel she related her feelings through these parts of her life shared in this book very well but I was expecting a few more laughs. Still, I do recommend reading it as it gives an interesting window into the life of a domestic not-quite-goddess and her family.
One of the early books by the late housewife humorist seems a bit dated now with mentions of Lady Bird Johnson and "the older Nixon girl" but must have been laugh-out-loud funny for the housewife of the mid-1960s. However, two poignant essays stand out, "Reflections at Summer's End," on children growing up so quickly, and "Out of the Nest," on her youngest child entering school.
Saw this book in a second-hand bookstore. I read the back cover and it's quite funny so I bought it. Erma Bombeck is really a funny author. I laughed several times while reading this book. And aside from the humor, there's also some nuggets of wisdom in a particular chapter of the book. But I won't tell what part it is. Just read it. :)) Happy reading!
I gave up. This book wasn't anything close to as funny as others I've read of hers. Part of the problem was the format. Her jokes and stories ran right into each other but they weren't connected so it felt vet discombobulated.
