https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33385229-they-both-die-at-the-end
I didn’t know it was possible to laugh so much on the last day of two boy’s lives, but it happened.Normally, I’m not a big fan of books that have super insignificant characters as an additional perspective, but I think it worked really well for this book.
The way his anxiety manifests is very unique, unlike other fictional characters I’ve read before, and I enjoyed seeing him conquer his fears and gain control over his intrusive thoughts.
I’ve been facing a lot of severe anxiety related to death as of late, and They Both Die At The End made it impossible for me to shove those feelings down any longer.
An app called Last Friend brings together those who are dying and enables them to find someone to enjoy their last day with.It sounded like it should be an extremely powerful read, and yet I found that They Both Die at the End had far less of an emotional impact than More Happy Than Not and History Is All You Left Me. It's my least favourite Silvera book to date.Though there are some sci-fi elements, I would call this a contemporary.
I felt like there were times when the book was really pushing the YOLO message, which is a message I'm here for, but I also wanted that message to be a little less outright than it was.
I really liked how things played out throughout the story and how we see these two boys bond and connect over what they're facing.
A major thing that I LOVED about this book is how it got me thinking about DEATH.
I know death isn't a fun thing to think about, but it really had me thinking about how I'd live my life differently if I lived in a world like this.
I mean, we all know that we're just a temporary fixture in the vastness of the universe and that life is only a few seconds at a time and all the appreciation of it in the world won’t allow you to hold onto it forever, but imagine having a conscious awareness of how many numbers exactly those seconds encompass, like being trapped in a giant hourglass which threatens to suffocate you with sand.Think of all the many strangers' stories you won’t get the chance to make into, the many versions of yourself that you won't become, the many places that you've yearned to visit but won't be able to set foot in, the many people that will impact your life but you won't get the chance to meet, the many life views that you would've learned and the ones that you would've eventually unlearned, the many unpublished books that you would've ranted to your friends about for an irritably long amount of time and the many unreleased songs that you would've exhaustively listened to.
LOVED THIS. beautiful and gripping and tragic and inspiring. i've enjoyed all of adam's books, but this one is definitely my favorite of his (so far!)i actually listened to the audiobook for this and it was EXCELLENT. highly recommended if you're into audiobooks!if you wanna know more of my spoilery thoughts and feels, check out the recording of the booksplosion liveshow - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ViS0Z...
FULL REVIEW COMING SOONWhat I will say for now is: ADAM YOU ARE SO CRUEL, MY HEART CANNOT FORGIVE YOU. The title 'prepares' you for the end, but that doesn't lessen the pain one bit. I sobbed the hardest I ever have while reading a book... I received an ARC of this book from the publisher in exchange for an honest review.
Maybe more of a 3.5*This was really good! I found that it did drag a little bit at times, definitely more of a slow going read but it was such an interesting concept and I think it was very well executed. (It's actually a concept I had thought of for one of my novels, great minds think alike!)
He was, to put it mildly, the epitome of goodness but had a hard time connecting with Rufus.
I simply can’t wrap my head around the idea that two people can fall head over heels in love with each other after only a few hours of meeting each other.
I HATED those side character POVs. They just felt nuisance and kept pulling me out of the story.
All in all, had I read this before all the frenzy, no doubt I would’ve found it a lot more emotional, alas, I did not.
It was still a good read and loved the message it was trying to relay.
“Maybe it's better to have gotten it right and been happy for one day instead of living a lifetime of wrongs.” This is a masterpiece of speculative fiction. Speculative fiction, to me, is meant for emotions, and meant for exploration and discovery. This book is a story of a last chance and a last day for two very different people, but it's a story that's best observed personally - this story asks you to reinvent yourself every single day.The strength of this book is that somehow, everything her
The amount of side point of views here is perhaps the best part of this book - it's hard to ignore how personal this story is when you feel as if you could be dropped into the book at any time.
And as an added bonus, the diversity is fantastic - Mateo is Puerto Rican and queer, while Rufus is Cuban-American and bisexual.
➽ Mateo Torrez: My nerdy, character-development-full son.
➽ Rufus Emeterio: The fact that he put down “Professional Time Waster” as his job in his deathday profile is all you need to know, honestly.
In contrast to Mateo, Rufus has accepted his fate.
Mateo and Rufus do not have a meet-cute.
They don’t know each other yet, but their paths will cross on this last day of their lives.Adam Silvera is one of my favourite YA authors for several reasons.
They speak from experience, which makes it so much easier to connect with them and their stories.The concept of They Both Die At The End was just as creative as Silvera’s debut novel, More Happy Than Not. You can even find the one or other connection between these two books.
Lidia’s might just be my favourite one.While these POV’s were brilliant and emotional, I had a hard time connecting with Mateo and Rufus.
I should have known from the title that this book would be heartbreaking...
It's just so cruel and torturous knowing you'll die and not being able to do anything about it except spend the time you have left with the people you love and doing things you would have denied yourself if it were any other ordinary day.
It's especially cruel having to tell those you love that you're dying and watching them break down in front of you knowing the loneliness, sadness, but memories of happiness you'll leave with them.This is what happened to Mateo and Rufus.
They truly lived life the day they were going to die.It's impossible not to cry when reading something like this.
The two teens are vastly different, but when they find that they share an End Day, they decide to spend their final hours together, and show one another what living is all about.THE BOYS ➳➳Mateo is this adorable, precious little thing who is just terrified of the entire world around him and I just spent so much of the book feeling sorry for him because he is filled with such an immense amount of regret when he gets his phone call.
The best way I can describe this is The Sun is Also a Star meets Aristotle and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe.
Mateo and Rufus both get a call from Deathcast that today is their last day on earth - in twelve hours, they will both be dead.Last Friend is an app created for Deckers (people who have received the Deathcast call) to meet up and spend their final hours on Earth with a stranger.
Mateo and Rufus meet via this app and decide to have the best last day together that they can.From here we watch as their relationship grows from awkward strangers, to closer acquaintances and eventually best friends.
I loved meeting Rufus and Mateo and seeing them grow as people.
update: someone pointed out that the two boys’ shadows on the cover make a cloaked figure with a scythe (Death) and I’m crying againI knew it was going to be sad but I really didn’t expect to be sobbing at 1 in the morninglisten... I have so many thoughts and most of them somewhat resemble “I hate Adam Silvera I hate Adam Silvera I hate Adam Silvera” but there’s another part of me that says that this is Silvera’s best (read: most destructive) book// buddy read with banshee and gmos hater
So 100% of the reason I wanted to read this was to know...DO THEY BOTH DIE AT THE END????
And since the book is literally set in 2017, I feel like the sci-fi vibe was confusing because we don't get to know HOW people know what day they're going to die.
But by the end shy/serious/anxious Mateo has really "loosened up" and it just makes me sad that serious people have to "loosen up" in books so much.
Pls. And I do love how it ended without knowing exactly what happened to Rufus.
It's like the whole "ends in the middle of a sentence" thing!!
FULL REVIEW POSTED:I just got off a fucking 12-hour-long flight to China and I spent approximately half of those hours reading this book, periodically crying, and sitting in my seat staring out at a view of endless clouds because I was not emotionally prepared to just go on with life after finishing this book. (Update: it’s now been more than ten days since I finished this and I still have a lot of feelings.) Stories can make someone immortal as long as someone else is willing to listen. FYI: th
This was my first Adam Silvera book, but I will 100% be checking out his others as soon as I can.They Both Die at the End follows the lives of Mateo Torrez and Rufus Emeterio, two teens who manage to find each other and fall for each other on the day they’re both destined to die.
And I guess this story resonated with me really fucking hard in a lot of ways, because I don’t want to be a person who waits until the day they’re going to die to be completely honest with the people I care about most.
I'm probably at like 4.75 stars, but I'll round up... Well, what else would you expect from a book called They Both Die at the End?"No one wants to die. Even people who want to go to heaven don't want to die to get there. And yet death is the destination we all share. No one has ever escaped it. And that is as it should be, because Death is very likely the single best invention of Life. It is Life's change agent. It clears out the old to make way for the new."—Steve Jobs Shortly after midnight o
But when they meet, each vows to help the other live the best End Day they can—live it to the fullest, no regrets.The boys will face some challenges, share secrets with one another that they've never told others, and deal with their fears, together.
But I didn't feel like someone punched me hard in the feels repeatedly, which made me enjoy this more.I'll admit I wanted a little more backstory into the whole Death-Cast thing, especially since this book takes place September 5, 2017 (ironically, the day Silvera's book was released).
Don't let the title fool you. This isn't a book about death, but about life. It's about becoming the person you want to be without fear holding you back. It makes you face your own mortality head on and asks the question, if you knew today was your last day would you be happy with the life you lived? This is truly a book you come out of a different person then you went in.
ARC provided by the publisher via Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review.  “You may be born into a family, but you walk into friendships. Some you’ll discover you should put behind you. Others are worth every risk.”  Hey, friends! I’m so sorry! I really wanted to love this, but this just wasn’t a book for me. I think some of the lines were so beautiful, and I love the overall message of living your life, every day, to the fullest, but I just could never connect with this story the way that I
I think some of the lines were so beautiful, and I love the overall message of living your life, every day, to the fullest, but I just could never connect with this story the way that I know so many of my friends have.
➽ I really didn’t like reading about how people use Death-Cast to try to hook up with people they know are dying, probably because then they don’t have to come out.
I also just feel bad that I didn’t love this beloved book of so many of my friends.
4 Stars   "...stories can make someone immortal as long as someone else is willing to listen.”  (So. Many. Tears.)This is the second time I've finished an Adam Silvera book with a hollow feeling in my chest and maybe I'm just in love with the pain because something about this emotional writing style hurts so good? A book should always make you feel somethingand this one made me feel a lot.The writing style is somewhat brisk and dialogue-focused, perfectly showcasing a diverse cast of loveable ch
Tears.)This is the second time I've finished an Adam Silvera book with a hollow feeling in my chest and maybe I'm just in love with the pain because something about this emotional writing style hurts so good?
Outside of the representation this offers (both leads are Latino and in the LGBT+ community) all of the characters were well developed in their motivations and interactions.Mateo especially broke my heart, as so much of his story revolves around his battles with social anxiety.
These storylines also do a great job of showing how ingrained Death-Cast is in this world.
I like to think of myself as a heartless witch or something when it comes to books and movies because it really takes a lot for me to feel something for the media I’m consuming; this book, however, had me crying by the time the first chapter was done.
This book profoundly affected me and (view spoiler)[ reading about my most related to character die left a hole in my cold dead heart and  (hide spoiler)] I’ve been thinking about it for months.Yes, I have my complaints.
But whatever, this (huge) piece of information is not what the author wants you to spend your time pondering.
Your time is too precious!(Though if you’re like me, you can’t help it.)Mateo and Rufus are empathetic heroes you’ll want to read about.
I have to say it’s not as imaginative as Silvera’s first novel and not as thematic as his second, but the evolution of the relationship between the two boys is worth witnessing.I just really didn’t like the random chapters by random people in 3rd person singular as opposed to Mateo and Rufus’ 1st person singular.
ExCuSe Me?!??!!!!!!???!!!!!??! NO ONE TOUCH ME FOR AT LEAST A WEEK
A good book overall, but there's too much death imho. Could have done without it. RTC.
Wow um spoiler alert @ title??--(lmao you guys make me feel funny and popular with this pre-review)
But what the fuck was that ending?
I love what it stood for.
The overall message of living your life to the fullest.
They've received a call from Death-Cast letting them know they have less than 24 hours left to live.
What would you do if you knew if you had little time left to live?
What is it that you'd want to 'achieve'?
Say to loved ones?
That all of our lives are connected somehow.
The ending was obviously intentional, but I can't wrap my head around it, neither do I see its value yet.
What is it that you want?
What is it that you want?
1. The hype lies to me.2. I did not cry.3. Trigger warning for ableist language.🌈 buddy read with 👸🏼 & 👸🏻Blog ¦ Bloglovin’ ¦ Tumblr ¦ Instagram
The title is intriguing.
