https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61958.Moreta
I've read a few of the other reviews, and I think many of the readers have missed the whole point of this book.
The climax of the story did not happen when the cure for the virus was discovered (as the above mentioned reviewer surmised).
Perhaps some reviewers missed the title of the book itself - "Moreta: Dragonlady of Pern"?I will agree that perhaps there is an over aggressive use of names - it does get difficult to keep up with who is who and doing what at times, but the beauty of reading a book is that one can go back and reread if something gets confusing.
(And I'm sorry, but a novel centered around a disease, where the climactic moment is someone finding a cure in a book, is not much of a story under the best of circumstances.)(The following paragraph contains tiny, deliberately obscure spoilers, and details that will seem nonsensical if you haven't read the book.) While the Aftermath is powerfully written, the Great Ride alluded to in other Pern novels hardly seems necessary--if they can Time things, why not wait until tomorrow or the day after to do things?
But this is nothing compared to the final chapter, in which SIXTY-TWO different characters are named, along with ten locales and TWENTY-FIVE different dragons.
I remember this being one of my favorite Dragonriders of Pern books.
In this story we find Pern almost to the end of a thread pass, but stricken with a terrible sickness that is killing so many.
There is no cure for beast or human.
They must treat the symptoms and get through the sickness.
They need to vaccinate all the humans as well as the runners since this sickness is spread through animals.
Moreta is a fantastic character who goes above and beyond to save Pern.
She is a very likable character.
It is a beautiful book with an amazingly strong and willful female protagonist.
It's been decades since I read this book.
I don't know if it would hold up to adult Emily's standards, but what I do remember is that it's the first book that made me cry.
I remember crying and hurling it across the room.
Being able to elicit that memorable of a response earns it a 5-star rating, at least in my very subjective and forgiving rating system.
I remember reading the first trilogy and wishing with all my heart that it was real, that I could bond with a dragon of my own.
Not all of the books were equally good, but I remember this one as a keeper.
This is the story of Moreta, a Dragon Healer and Weyrwoman in the old time (way before the Current Pass with F'lar and Lessa as Weyrleaders of Benden).A flu-like plague begins to spread across the land, and it's up to her and her dragon to help find a cure.This book is one of my top 5 favorites from Anne McCaffrey... I won't give away the ending, but it makes me cry each and every time, I'm not going to lie about it. I'm a wimp, what can I say :)
#7 overall publication order of the "Pern" fantasy series, this seems to be a stand-alone story of the weyr-woman Moreta, whose dragon Orlith is the queen of Fort Weyr.
The events in this book happen about 900 years before the earlier books in the series, and take place when they are just discovering that dragons cannot only go "between" and thus traverse hundreds of miles in the blink of an eye, but that they can also go other places in TIME.
Oh my God, the BEAUTY of this book.
I was kinda reluctant about starting it; it's been a few months since I've read my last Pern book, and I had this feeling that it was gonna be slow and a bit boring.
Everything is perfect, the little differences between the habits of people between this books and the previous ones, the constant feeling that you are reading the history of a world that really exist (because how can one person create this amazingly complex and "real" planet), and of course the characters are beautifully written, never flat and often surprising.
I love the medical aspect, and the exploration of how different people respond to medical crisis. And Moreta is in many ways, the most adult of McCaffrey's characters since we only know her as an adult. Maybe for that reason, she seemed better rounded and capable than many of the other characters in the series.
The bad are few and far between and immediately recognizable by their shittiness and all-around douchebaggery.So I didn't mind that we spent three solid chapters at the beginning doing nothing more than dressing for a party, going to a party, and dancing the night away (also drinking and flirting.) But my interest flagged when-- the book stopped being about Moreta.I should note here that the "Moreta" character is heavily referenced in other works as there heroiest heroine in the history of ever.
(RE-EALLY Not sure how that would work out within the mythos of Pern, since it seems that the Weyer community at large would never stand for anything bad to happen to a precious dragon-queen rider.
This one had its moments, but is not the best Pern has to offer, especially with the ending.
If you were getting tired of meeting the same characters with different names or beginning to get frustrated by the discrepancy between the books' potential and what they actually delivered, Moreta will be more of the same.The story, which takes place nearly 1000 years before Dragonflight and the Harper Hall trilogy, involves a planet-wide plague of mysterious "flu" and the efforts of the people of the planet Pern, specifically Moreta, to deal with it.
I believe this was the author's intent, but it is only partially successful.Although sufficient time elapses between Moreta's ride and the beginning of Dragonflight that Moreta's ride has become a legend, the cultures depicted in the two books are remarkably similar.
I wanted to give it 2 stars but the ending made me cry, so 3 stars it is.
Re-read again for September 2018Review to come :)
If you’ve been following along with Pern, this is a nice trip back to an earlier time where the inhabitants retain more memories of the origins of Pern. Moreta and her dragon and the other characters are enjoyable, and her challenge is interesting.
Sadder than most of the Pern novels, this one deals with a plague which sweeps through the planet I found the Dragondex at the back of the book very helpful.
Nog een heerlijk deel. Ik ben nu toch echt van plan om een tweedehands boekwinkel in te gaan om nog een aantal boeken te scoren. Dan maar in het Engels.
I used and audio book and just did not feel like looking up the correct spelling of every character.]After reading the sagas of the dragon riders of Pern and the Harper Hall tales I became a big fan of Benden Wheir people.
If you have been reading the dragon riders of Pern in order then you have already been told in previous books what Moreta's fate is and so you anticipate it.
Although, I would not have know how to make such a storyline stronger.Overall, I really enjoyed this book and found it very refreshing from the usual story I have been following.
My love of fantasy genre began after reading works by authors of my parents and grandparents age, including Anne McCaffrey whose masterful creation ignited a spark that has burned brightly ever since.
Anne’s creation surrounding the world of Pern is one that is truly unique, being an utterly inspired concept that is full of creativity and imagination that blew me away as a child as much as it still does today.
I am most grateful to Anne McCaffrey for introducing me into the most spectacular world that sparked my creativity and awoke my imagination, making me understand and come to love the fantasy worlds.
From what Lessa said we don't know much but we know three things; Moreta rides a golden dragon, is of Ruathan blood and she took some sort of ride worthy of song and after reading this book we know that one out of three is pretty bloody awful.
The plan hinges on time travel and rather than taking the infinite amount at her disposal to find another rider to do it or to wait for her own dragon to be ready she stupidly rushes things risking four lives, and the ENTIRE PLANET, so she can time travel now.
This is a hard one to review because, honestly there were parts of the book where I was bored or had to force myself to keep reading.But then that ENDING OHMYGAH.
For fans of the Pern series, you will find this similar to the other books; lots of peoples names to remember (I just have to accept the fact that I’m supposed to know who they’re talking about but I just DONT.) and very elaborate but cohesive world building.
For those of you who are just now stumbling onto the series through this book; this is a fairly good standalone- I don’t think you needed to read the earlier books to feel grounded in the world.
But now I'm old and can't help but wondering, "Why don't a bunch of Dragonriders take vaccines back in time and stop everyone from dying of the plague in the first place?"That question may have been addressed in other Pern books.
I see that there have been a LOT more Pern books published since I more or less quit the series ca 1990.
It's also been a long, long time since I re-read the first published Pern books.
So I'll read the series and see if my questions will ever be answered.
Found myself close to tearing up, which is surprising considering that this book was quite a snoozefest for me.I enjoyed the character Moreta.
The famous Moreta's Ride of lore doesn't happen until the very end of the story - which makes sense if you think of the outcome.
The most adventure in the novel is the couple of times Moreta heals a dragon or a rider.
Much of the story spends its time thinking about how the infection spread and how it can be stopped.Just seemed like every scene was two people talking about what they could do.
Depressing, this book was sad for me. I liked Moreta and her "mate" was an asshole. I was mixed though. Should she have been with Lord Alessan? I can understand their desire to be together. They are both people who honour the old ways and yet are adaptable to change. They want to save the world. Their saviour complexes are what did me in. They do so much and in the end, they didn't really get what they wanted, did they? Star-crossed lovers due to politics. I just want to scream in frustration!
Outbreak/Contagion/Balto, with teleporting Dragons. Awesome right? Well it loses a star for some very abrupt happenings at the end that were rushed and not set up well, and there wasn't enough detail about the famed flight that inspired the ballad mentioned so often in the series. If I could do half stars it would only get 2.5.
Situado a medio camino en la cronología interna de la saga, cuando aún se recordaba la llegada desde la Tierra y las viejas técnicas aún no habían desaprecido por completo. Interesante para completar la trilogía del Dragón Blanco.
There is a ballad that was created in her honor by the Masterharper of Pern called Moreta's Ride which is sung in some of the later books (that Menolly sings if another reviewer is right) if you happen to be reading this series way out of order like I am.=0pI can't recall the ballad but feel it was wonderfully poetic.
Moreta was an enjoyable read, I liked seeing the healing side of things.
I liked getting to know her.
I can't even figure out how she and Sh'gall happened, unless Orlith happened to like Kadith the best of the bronzes as Moreta had no preference.
The epidemic itself was interesting as was seeing what all happened.
It would be interesting.It's sad that Moreta and Holth died because of exhaustion and Holth being so old.
It was interesting, did Holth just not wait, did Moreta forget to visualize?
Who knows, but it was an interesting book.
Tout est au beau fixe avec différents rassemblements dans les Forts, les gens dansent, chantent, participent à des courses, peuvent découvrir de nouveaux spécimens animaux du continent méridional, une belle ambiance de fête, peu avant la chute des Fils, mais tout est sous contrôle.Malheureusement, une terrible maladie frappe l'un des Forts et va progressivement toucher tout Pern.
Les chevaliers-dragons ne sont pas protégés, et ils doivent pourtant lutter contre les Fils.
Que va-t-il en rester après ces deux plaies ?Un tome qui vient expliquer beaucoup de choses sur les tomes précédents, et qui nous met en garde contre ces horribles plaies qui pourraient bien ressurgir !
I couldn't get through it.
It wasn't interesting enough for me.
Too much time building the romance and not enough plot.
The characters were flat to me, no unique or interesting personalities to compensate.
Once the plot got started it was pretty straight forward.
No questions were raised, no antagonist or actionable problem.Maybe it gets better, but even the writing style was dull to me.
I can't believe a Planet with dragons and organic killing spores raining from the sky could be so monotonous.
Where was the vivid world building?Plot spent too much time on inconsequential races.
None on much more interesting and dangerous Thread and none on dragons.
This book goes back to an earlier time when the dragon riders first discovered that the dragons could go back or forward in time when they go between.
I could not help but feel sorry for Moreta to have to endure mates that she may not even like all because their dragons where the ones to catch her own dragon when it was in heat.
Pern becomes infected by what appears to be an epidemic but soon becomes a pandemic, later in the book we discover that it is the Flue still wreaking havoc after all these years.
