https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20758104-the-knife-of-never-letting-go
“Knowledge is dangerous and men lie and the world changes, whether I want it to or not.” Every once in a while I find myself back on the Goodreads page of a book I read and adored a few years ago. I see the cover and remember first holding it in my hands and not knowing I was in for a magical experience. My eyes scan the description and I get goosebumps as I'm taken back into the story, feeling echoes of the emotions I felt once again. Then I glance down... and see my "review".That's when I sta
It shouldn't be so incredible - an adventure/survival story about a thirteen year-old boy and his dog doesn't sound so impressive - but, oh, it's just so much deeper, thought-provoking, sad, funny, chilling...
It's one of the most rich, meaningful stories I've ever read.It tells the story of Todd, the last boy in Prentisstown, who will become a man on his 13th birthday.
In a town like this, you'd think keeping a secret would be impossible.But we soon find out that noise can lie and that Prentisstown has some very dark secrets.
i have 2,410 friends on goodreads.com.199 of them have this book on their shelves.of that number, only 28 have read it.to the other 171 of you, i say - "WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR???" and you can see i am serious about this, because i have done math in order to convince you.**and i know, i know.
very reminiscent of the dog in up, and although he has a small range of words at his disposal,his emotions come across loud and clear.it is a wonderful relationship, despite todd not wanting a dog and resenting him at the beginning of the book, the two of them, through their adventures, become the best "boy and his dog" team i can think of.
It is a doozy though.Things that did bother me:The unlikeable main character, ToddAaron the Energizer Bunny - 'nough said.The two senseless deaths - one made me start bawling and set the book down, wondering if I could continue on.I had a friend say to me that Ness must be a great author if he can incite so much passion from me; if you take a look at my updates you can see how up and down I was, but is it a good book if for the most part all it did was make me pissed off?
3.5 starsForever crying because "Todd?"
3.5/5 - Read for my young adult literature class.
The scene where he realizes that he can tell what she’s thinking and feeling, even though he can’t hear her Noise, is — for my money — the best thing in the entire book, a genuine, human moment of recognition.The whole “endless fleeing punctuated by extreme danger” plot, however, I found utterly tedious.
Just like Hunger Games, where it was used to excellent effect, this book is in first person present tense.
[insert me sobbing wretchedly] Honestly this has the character death that I think has affected me most, and I've read a lot of books ok.Ugh I hate it.
And I love the book, but I hate ittttttt.Anyway, just a few things to note during my reread:• if you reread a book THE TRAGIC HEARTPUNCHING PARTS DON'T CHANGE• this is odd• the audiobook is spectacular, also slightly dramatised with the Noise (!!) and I highly recommend• I found myself very confused the first time, but this time was much better• It reminds me a lot of Half Bad which I adore!• And also I just really love how raw and emotional and complex Todd is.
I'm gonna love this book!"Yep. But perhaps you want to know why?
Oh, shut up) to "bad romance heroin" (freaking insta-love, I said) so quickly?
All the sentences are fluid, and even if I know it annoyed some readers, I loved the rhythm and the orality of Todd's voice.
That was rude.Todd and Viola's story was excruciating, mind-blowing, even hard to stand at some point, yet filled with such gems of awesomeness I often find myself thinking about it, reliving it - Here's a book which moved me in a way no other could.
Ugh, you can't leave me with that ending!
Reread! 5 stars, of course.  Initial review:  Perfect! Just perfect! Complete work of art. Everyone should read it and bless their sights with its glorious pages. I have nothing else to say.
Seriously? SERIOUSLY?!Okay, here's some first impressions:1) Awesome.2) Great.3) EFFING awesome.4) Manchee!!5) Seriously?!6) Non-stop, action, adventure, twists, unexpected relationships, character development unlike any other, heartache, anticipation, lovely, sweet, horror, anger, unique writing style, original and fresh.7) Seriously chaos walking.Watch out for a video review tomorrow :)
Hard to know how to rate this book. It is amazing and powerful, but so sad it made me angry and made me not want to recommend it to anyone. If you're up for a punch in the stomach. . . here's your book.
He never thought other towns existed.I felt that this book picked up really quickly, and will demand your attention, with action and suspense that keep you constantly guessing.
It was interesting to see what animals would have to say (not much of interest, actually) and how differently the various characters Todd encounters along his journey have dealt with the problem of broadcasting their thoughts.
Manchee, his dog is another fun character that made me laugh.The concept of this book was just so unique.
I cruised through this book thinking it was going to be rated 4 stars...until the ending.
Edit: I originally rated this book 2.5 stars, but on further consideration, it is more of a 1.5-2 star book for me.The writing and themes explored in this book are excellent. The writing style is unique and part of the world building in a lot of ways. I found the actual plot, particularly the "twists", as well as the characters, especially the villains, to be lacking. A predictable plot and villains who are evil for the sake of being evil can really kill a story for me and that's what happened here. I will not be continuing with this series.
Cross-posted at Outlaw Reviews and at Shelf Inflicted Young Todd Hewitt is on the verge of manhood and living in Prentisstown, a world without women and where the thoughts of men and “creachers” can be heard.
Todd likes to go to the swamp to collect apples, because it is the only place where he can get a break from men’s “Noise” – their secrets, their thoughts, their memories.
When Todd encounters a girl on his travels, and comes across towns filled with men and women, everything he’s ever known about the world is changed in an instant.
The development of Todd’s and Viola’s relationship is my favorite part of this story.
Cuz reading the first two chapters of Patrick Ness’ book is much more annoying as hell!Evaluashun twixt the two:Pretties: >The Pretty Talk- fond of a-using bubbly, bogus, a-dizzy-making, a-pretty-making, ouching, a-oxygen-missing etc etc etc… >Character pet names- a-adding la or wa at the end e.g. Tally-wa, Shay-la, Zane-laThe Knife of Never Letting Go> aka The Book of Typos> Misspelled words and grammatical errors that will surely make a Grammar Nazi effing end his/her life>neologisms that just made me infuriated like Ahm a-having a PMS or a-something>Redundancy- the author was fund of repeating what he writes three times as ifs yer dumb.
“The noise is a man unfiltered, and without a filter, a man is just chaos walking.” As Todd’s 13th birthday approaches, and also the day he will become a man, he is told by the two men who brought him up that he must run away, that Prentisstown is not safe for him, he must flee.
As I said, the majority of this story is Todd and Viola on the run, the numerous other settlements they come across and the overlying idea that what Todd has been brought up to believe about his town may not actually be the truth.
“I think how hope maybe the thing that keeps you going, but that it’s dangerous, too, that’s it painful and risky, that it’s making a dare to the world and when has the world ever let you win a dare?” Total mixed feeling. Maybe I chose wrongly for my first Ness book but for some reason this story or more specifically, this plot is just not my thing and/or confused me. I can’t say I wholly grasp the deeper meaning of it, still.I did like the main characters quite a lot. I want to give them heart
“I think how hope maybe the thing that keeps you going, but that it’s dangerous, too, that’s it painful and risky, that it’s making a dare to the world and when has the world ever let you win a dare?”
Maybe I chose wrongly for my first Ness book but for some reason this story or more specifically, this plot is just not my thing and/or confused me.
Man, woman and dog.But even though I did, I do, I can’t seem to decide if I should continue this series.
I don’t know, man.But whatever I decided to do,,,,,,,, Manchee.rating: ★★½
(Todd thinks he knows why, but there's a lot that he doesn't understand.) Todd is the youngest boy in his entire town, and in less than a month he'll turn 13 (years run a little longer on this planet) and he'll become a man.
(hide spoiler)] While I did like a lot of things about this book, I'm not sure I was enough into it to want to read two more volumes of angst and bleakness to get to the end of the story.
The majority of my friends loved this book!
But, I didn't and I hate that I didn't!
I love Patrick Ness but this book just wasn't for me and I won't be reading the rest of the trilogy.
I will continue to read Patrick Ness books =) I loved the whole concept of the book and it was cray.
BUT, so much of the book made me feel crazier than I am and gave me a headache.
=( I'm so glad so many others enjoyed it because that's the beauty of books.
I just wish I was one of them.
Told through the candid and youthful perspective of a twelve year old boy on the cusp of manhood, The Knife of Never Letting Go presents an incredibly unique plot that's both simple in its storytelling and layered in its depth.
Todd is the youngest boy in a society consisting solely of men, and this is his normal: The Noise.
What I loved most about this story was its genuine, unfiltered voice; Todd's perspective was youthful and portrayed in a believable and refreshing manner.
▪	 Genre/Category: Dystopian/YA▪ Romance: Vague and gentle, but progresses.▪	 Characters: Youthful and genuinely portrayed.
Unlike most YA books fanaticism, xenophobia and hate in this book are so real and palpable.Second big plus for this book is that I finally found young, idealistic protagonist who I don't find annoying.My opinion is that no kill policy works well only for Batman but despite that I really grown attached to Todd and at no point I wished for him to die horrible death which happens fairly rarely when I read YA sci-fi/fantasy books.Also his relationship with dog Munchee is one of the highlight of this book.While it never takes spotlight it start from almost antagonism it slowly develops into true friendship.And this is how you do a talking dog, are you taking notes Kevin Hearne?
The dog was my favourite. Enjoyed this more than i expected.
I have no idea why I waited so long to pick up this book. I freaking LOVED it. I 100% recommend the audiobook (which is currently on sale on Audible), because it was fantastic. I will listen to all of them on audio. It also lets you read the story without getting as caught up on the spelling of words. But that ending!!! Continuing with book 2 tonight because it can't wait!!
The author uses distinctive dialects for Todd and the other people he encounters on his way, in order to emphasize the contrast and conflicts between the different settlements on New World, while especially focusing on the protagonist's dialect as a means of indicating his rural background and lack of education.“The Knife of Never Letting Go” is a Young Adult science-fiction book and the first installment in the “Chaos Walking” trilogy.
By the end of the book, she has grown accustomed to all of the differing dialects on New World and has even acquired some of Todd's slang words.While running from the army of Prentisstown men, Viola and Todd also encounter a lot of people from various other settlements with different dialects and vocabulary.
I had never read any Ness before so I thought I'd pick up one or two of his books as I had heard only good things about his writing.
The occupants of this town are predominately farmers, entirely male and, oh, they can all hear each other's every thought.The reader is immediately introduced, in the form of first person narration, to the first protagonist, who remains with us for all three of the books, Todd.
Maybe I am reading it wrong, maybe I am not seeing something, but my main issue is with the protagonist, the 13 year old kid, Todd.
I know he has been raised in a village of uber-religious men with no women and stories of how they got to that women-less existence, which are obviously created to brainwash the young.
That makes for very entertaining human-animal communications, but I hated how childish and unkind Todd could be toward Manchee!The puppy was my favorite character in the whole book!
The story follows Todd, the last boy in a town full of men on a planet called “New World” (quite an original name).
is that Noise ain’t truth, Noise is what men want to be true, and there’s a difference twixt those two things so big that it could ruddy well kill you if you don’t watch out.” The story begins when Todd’s out picking apples in the swamp one day and sees a hole in the noise, which he knows just ain’t possible.
And otherwise normal men become monsters, too.”3.5/5 starsI found it kind of hard to rate this book, because I have many and very mixed feelings towards it.First of all, Patrick Ness is an amazing author.
His characters are incredibly interesting.I like the relationship Ben and Cillian have even though I'm never sure if they are a couple or not.
He made me mad.But now the worst thing: (view spoiler)[ THE AUTHOR KILLED THE DOG.
YOU DON'T KILL THE DOG.
I need some ups, some rays of light to not let me lose hope entirely.Please Mr. Ness, don't let me down.Find more of my books on Instagram
Todd Hewitt is only days away from becoming a man by Prentisstown standards.
Prentisstown is a town on New World, a planet that is being "settled" by the people of earth.
What's unusual about Prentisstown, though, is that it's a town that consists entirely of men.
Todd struggles for survival and begins to unravel the lies that he's been told his entire life.
During his journey, he discovers the truth about New World and about Prentisstown.The novel is told in first person stream of consciousness, which really works because it's like we as readers are able to "hear" Todd's Noise just as the other inhabitants of Prentisstown would.
