https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/269746.Catering_to_Nobody
Diane Mott Davidson's "Goldy Bear/Schultz" series was one of the first cozy books I began reading.
As I began doing background research, I realized it all stemmed from my early love of Agatha Christie back in school days.The Goldy series was a fun read that created a world of characters I enjoyed learning about.
Understanding the relationship between the protagonist sleuth and the local police detectives, I quickly fell in line with loving this series.
As the series continues, more characters appear and the stories get stronger.
Cozy readers will like this series!
Divorcée Gertrude (Goldy) Bear works hard at her business 'Goldilocks Catering' in Aspen Meadows, Colorado.
Goldy needs the money to support herself and her 11-year-old son Arch, since child support from her ex-husband, gynecologist John Richard Korman, is sporadic and inadequate.
The two women call their mutual former spouse 'The Jerk', and delight in trash-talking him over coffee and pastries.As the story opens, Goldy is preparing to cater the funeral food for Arch's former teacher, Laura Smiley, who purportedly committed suicide.
Unfortunately it did not work out as planned.The thing is after reading a lot of Christie novels, my standard in the cozy mystery genre is set and to say the least this story did not even reach close.The main character- Goldy is a divorced woman taking care of her 11 yr old son and trying to make her business work.
But then the story just goes down-hill.The 'investigation' by Goldy if you want to even call it that, does not stick to any one trail.
This story did not have that atmosphere that goes hand in hand with a cozy mystery.
I have a great love of book series’.
I love to get plenty of time to get to know all the characters and immerse myself in their world.
So I’m glad to get a start with this one.
So Goldy is a divorced mom trying to make ends meet while pursuing her dream of running a catering company.
When you barely make ends meet, being without one paycheck can sink your ship.
This leads Goldy to find the real culprit.
I can understand how a caterer got involved in solving crime this time.
It will be interesting to see what justifies it in future books.
This is one of my guilty pleasures. I love light mysteries. I want to see a body in the first 20 pages, lots of clues in the middle, and the solution in the last 20 pages. I never try to figure it out. I just skim the surface, suspend disbelief (how many dead bodies is a caterer likely to find, really?), and enjoy the ride.
I made it to the end, but I probably shouldn't have since bad books make me cranky.The book should have been titled "Catering to Everybody: The Story of a Doormat in a Village of Idiots".
And I also liked the portrayal of everyone knowing more about the case than Goldy, but no one talking, and letting her be the main suspect, when they know about her situation, just because that's easier for anyone.The characters were not real enough...
bad thing: I was most annoyed by the most central characters, whom the writer really wanted to show as good and of desirable morals and traits.
I mean, if someone gets enough of a relationship like this, and feels bad about it, wouldn't go over it in a half, kind-of-joking manner.I was annoyed by Schulz, either.
Now I've previously read this book several years ago and went on to read more in the series, but why sort of escapes me.
I didn't like the people in this book.
I found Goldy annoying and repetitive and Tom Schulz unprofessional, pushy, and patronizing.
I might try the second one at least because I know I kept going with the series previously but if I don't like that one better then I'm gone.
Particularly in this case since Tom Schulz is, I believe, intended to be a sympathetic character and doing his best on the case.
It was well written, had a nice marketable plot, and was cleverly done with the recipes in the middle and all--I mean, on those characteristics alone it seems like the perfect book, but I got kind of bored with it and fast.We'll start with Goldie, the main character, who's a recovering love addict and has battled to put her life together after an abusive marriage.
Granted, it is hard to develop characters thoroughly when you write in first person, but really, I have read an entire book where this guy is supposed to be the protagonist's love interest and I know NOTHING about him, and I mean NOTHING--except of course that he's good looking and has green eyes.The other guy in the book, who you know a lot more about, is the Honey Bee distributor.
DNF @ 43%I just can't work up the motivation to listen to an audiobook that has done nothing but frustrate me.
I don't understand why a) the protagonist gets shit from everyone around her (particularly the men) - from her ex-husband, to her new LI, to the little 11 y/o shit she calls her son, b) or why the entire town is filled with idiots.The writing seems odd and the protagonist is annoyingly repetitive and as subtle as a slap on the face with her 'interrogations.' It's also disappointing that the one interesting thing about her: formerly being in an abusive marriage, has left no visible, major scars: physical, emotional or mental on her.
3.5A unique cozy with real problems with flawed women - I loved the characters for the most part. Sometimes Goldy was obnoxiously nosy but I enjoyed being in her head, her son is adorable, and the mystery has a lot of complicated layers. The cop is point blank unrealistic with a lot of information reveal and discussing her doing so much of the case, but he's likable enough. I can't wait to try her Mayonnaise, Dream Cake, and Holy Moly Guacamole recipes. Full review to come.
I really enjoyed this book. It was neat to "meet" all of the characters for the first time, as I have read many of other books from the series. Quick and fun read.
This was a fast, fun read for a few days of escapism.
If you're expecting a crime novel or a thriller, keep looking.
This is a straight-up cozy mystery, with quirky characters and a small-town whodunit plot that kept me engaged enough to flip the pages.
There was a time or two that the scenes were a tiny bit over the top (the driver's ed scene comes to mind), but nothing my willing suspension of disbelief didn't cover.
It's not meant to be a procedural thriller; it's meant to be a quick, entertaining read.
Overall, good for a day of tucked-in reading.
reread
This murder mystery is at times funny and at times very suspenseful. It's definitely an entertaining book and well worth reading.
It was alright. Little to religious for my tastes
If you find half a newspaper article, with the date, article name and part of the content, you call you local library and have them teach you how to find the whole article, you don't go around confronting people without knowing what you are talking about.
Which makes me wonder if her ex married her because Goldy reminded him of his mother, who just let things go and didn't see what was in front of her.
If Goldy doesn't want to date Tom, that's cool, she could just tell him no.
After reading one of Diane Mott Davidson’s later Goldy Bear mysteries in a book club, I knew I wanted to start at the beginning of the series and I am so glad I did. I really enjoy Goldy’s demeanor and attitude, and find great charm in all of the Colorado references. While the majority of the female characters were stupidly...well, stupid, in this book, I look forward to following Goldy on future capers (food pun intended). Barbara Rosenblat was a fantastic reader, as her seemingly unpolished presentation and raspy vocals added a dramatic reading feel to the audiobook.
I started out listening to this on audiobook, but the narrator wasn't clicking for me.
Goldy as a character turned out to be really whiny when I listened to her, so I ended up abandoning the audiobook.
Some of the choices the author made in regards to describing Marla's stature got to me and there was a comment made about Japanese people that also bothered me.
I am glad that I finally got to this book, as I own several of the installments in this series.
Though this installment wasn't super enjoyable, I will give the series another shot before I decide for sure if I will be continuing on or not.
Audio: This is the 1st in the series, but the 3rd that I've read or listened to, and I still pretty much the same, it's just overall o.k. with some good moments, some installments have more than others.
The plot and characters weren't too bad in this one, but glad because of how things turned out, won't cry over some of those that can't be coming back.
So unless it's a BOTM, Buddy Read or for a challenge, I won't be reading more in this series until I finish numerous other ones first.
It's not bad, I just don't love or even really like.

Before you think I'm judging this book on it's entirety, I'll admit I'm not.
My choice was because of the feeling of watching an 80's video that was just entertaining enough to watch to the end while being annoyed at the swearing and the innuendos.
(Think The Goonies or Harry & the Hendersons.) It was written in the 80's, & I was just a little girl then, so some of the stereotyping and understanding of the lingo & times - I just didn't understand well enough.
Also, the swearing.
Mild swearing is sometimes easier to look past, but this book passed the mild for me.
I feel like this could have been a good story, but it was too difficult to get over how poorly it is told. The plot is muddy and superficial and there is next to zero character development. I really like reading serial mystery novels as a guilty pleasure, so I may try the next one or two in the series, but this one was a dud.
Goldy Bear is a great cook with mouth-watering recipes, but not so great a detective. I really didn't buy into her sleuthing, it just seemed so brash. Not a big fan of the writing either. Bake some cookies and find something else to read.
The writing is a little choppy at times. But overall it was a really great book some of the things that the author talks about didn't need to some questions but it did not take away from the plot. overall I would highly recommend this culinary mystery.
enjoyed this book very much. it was a light mystery with great characters. look forward to the next one
She seemed, well, a candidate for Dr. Laura’s radio show: a ’90’s mom who wants to be “friends” with her son instead of the parent and to be “liked” by him instead of obeyed and respected.On page 25, she says, “Though I’d finally gone back to school when Arch [her son] was in first grade to finish a degree in psychology…,” and it dawned on me the reason she was such an ineffectual mom: too much textbook training and not enough common-sense doing.
I love whodunnits, so I'm giving Catering to Nobody by Diane Mott Davidson three stars...
even in the hands of Agatha Christie, the whodunnit master.
This places her in the role of a "sidekick," like Poirot's Hastings, who misses the clues that the master sleuth hones in on.
And yet, somehow, Davidson wants us to accept the dim (as far as detecting goes) Goldy as the next Miss Marple.
I doubt I'll read another due to the implausibility of Goldy as a detective, but I think readers of whodunnits will at the very least enjoy this one.
Picked this up as a buddy read with  Poonam  for the Mystery & Thriller Week on Goodreads.
Maybe this was the wrong book to pick up after reading some wonderful novels with amazing writing.
But I felt there were so many things wrong with this book: the weakly written characters, the questionable parenting skills of Goldy, the police investigation which is a joke and the inspector who is hitting on a suspect.It's a 2 star because the mystery (however badly it was written (view spoiler)[ Had figured out the killer and the poisoner were 2 different people and that Fritz was the killer  (hide spoiler)]) was OK and I loved the the description of Aspen meadows and the food.
Oh this story was frustrating. I had a few feelings about who did the murder, but there was never anything solid to pin the murder on. I look forward to the next mystery.
