https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/289114.Manchild_in_the_Promised_Land
Well the first person narrator, whose name is definitely Claude Brown, though he’s usually called ‘Sonny’ in dialog, is certainly the same age as the writer, 15 years old in 1952.
The way Harlem ‘was’ when he was different ages certainly has the ring of truth to me, but I wouldn’t really know.
So at the age of eleven he spends his first time in the Wiltwyck School for Boys (which does exist, in Esopus New York), where he makes new friends who then reenter his life back on the streets.
This is probably my favorite book.
It impacted me in ways that are hard to describe.
For one, Brown's account of what happened to those who used heroine stuck with me to this day.
I wasn't exactly thinking about trying heroine or any other hard drug before, but reading Manchild in the Promised Land ensured I would never go down that path.
Throughout the book it seems like Claude loses everyone he ever cared about to jail, heroine, or death.
I'm not sure I would have handled it with as much class as Brown.
An extraordinary book documenting the impact of generations of cultural disruption, violence, and cruelty.
I felt very strongly the disjuncture between the rhetorical power of the text and the extreme cultural privation Brown describes in his childhood, and the story of the book is of how the two converge - how he became the man who wrote the book.
He seems to have cultivated detachment from childhood, and his ability to report without judging - a gang rape in which he participated, for instance - is extremely unsettling, and yet feels heroic at times, in his capacity for love and forgiveness.
I read this book in high school.
It upset me to see the violence and at the same time I knew that it came from hundreds of years of festering hurt, fear and anger among African Americans.
Also, I had grown up hearing my mother's war experiences when she was a child in Europe and China.
So Manchild in the Promised Land was an important and powerful book for me to read as I had already decided I wanted to teach in the inner city.
It was excellent preparation for my years in teaching in Watts.
Best book I've ever read. I'm from Harlem, so I can really relate to a whole lot he wrote about, even tho he wrote about a Harlem 30 years before my time. I give this to all my male friends who get locked up. Yeah, I kno that sounds funny, but I just want them to see that other people have gone thru they what they've gone thru, lived the life they've lived, and managed to get thru it to the other side.
Overall, it's just an endless series of little vignettes, but it still may be one of the most amazing books I've ever read.The book is a semi-fictionalized account of the author's life growing up as a small-time street criminal in Harlem in the 1940s and 50s (the narrator is, like the author, named Claude Brown).
He escaped to tell the tale.The pull of the book is that almost all of the little stories Brown tells, from participating in a stick-up to watching the rise of the Black Muslims, are simply amazing on their own terms, and are relayed with such clear-eyed intensity that you can't help but be carried along by it all.
This is a harsh book. This is a painful book. This is a funny book. This is a real book. Any teacher teaching urban children should read this book to understand the suffering and pain of street life. It is an accomplishment that the author was able to overcome his past to tell his story.
Manchild in the Promised Land (1965) is an autobiographical novel written by Claude Brown.
It tells about the author's coming of age amidst poverty and violence in Harlem during the 1940s and 1950s and has frequently appeared on banned book lists.I read this coming-of-age story when I was a kid growing up in a single family household living in the projects in the Bronx.
If Malcolm X is a book that changed your life, or is a book you've been wanting to read then Claude Brown's Manchild in the Promised Land should be your next one.
In some ways, though, this raw and imperfect voice is actually better, because the truth that Claude Brown experienced is not packaged into a nice, digestible Maya Angelou novel; instead he spits out random and seemingly disconnected anecdotes that seem to say, "I don't give a damn if you like this; this is just something that happened." As an upper middle class white suburban girl, I am thankful that this book reminds me that the 1950's Harlem world existed, even through all of its lens of underwhelming storytelling and grit.
I first read Manchild on the Promised Land at 12 years old which started my love affair with urban fiction.
Sonny Boy's introduction to "the life" started simply by sitting on his front stoop at five years old watching life in the "hood" unfold before he joyously stepped into it.Simple, fast reading; a these are are the events and this is how they happened kind of book.
Loved it as a teen and years later still love it; have the1966 edition.
Along with "The Autobiography of Malcolm X" this is without a doubt the most compelling book I've read.
There is no need for a dictionary when reading this book.
The vocabluary is easy without sacrificing power, and allows the reader to flow through the pages instead of trudging through them like we do with many books.
Along with the sheer amusement of the book I found a few lines here and there that spoke rather profoundly on the human condition, particulalry on affection, race and hopelessness, so it has something to say.
A book most definitely deserving of five stars.
An engaging and insighful read about a boy growing up and out of Harlem, though more out of the expected lifestyle than the neighborhood.
Brown doesn't pull any punches, giving his own bad and good deeds freely, although never without thought later as to the why's.
As much about Harlem itself and what it expected from it's youth, as it is about his own story.
Brown is able to find goodness as well, although a realistic sense of it, based on his ability to see beauty in people he encounters, as well as his own maturity.
I remembered reading this eons ago, and there are still parts of that fictionalized/non-fiction memoir I remember. Brown growing up in Harlem during the 40s and 50s is rough, but I like how he wrote in clear prose, and didn't shy away from the difficulties and the unpleasantries of being in a depressing environment; he perserveres, and I think there's a message here that transcends racial lines and time.
Here's what one less impressed reviewer wrote "KIRKUS REVIEWManchild is a naturalistic autobiography which carries Brown through his Harlem childhood and adolescence to his middle twenties, Some of the names are apparently changed, but the detail and dialogue are authentically unsparing.
Slum life was dismally sordid and murder common, though the author seems to skip the hallway smells, the garbage and the rats and settles for constant action and talk.
As in Farrell's Lonigan trilogy the passage of time is a major theme, and yet few pages are saturated with ""the times."" In some ways the author's insistent emphasis on vice overloads the dice.
This is a personal, subjective, and very readable account of one Black man's experience in the New York City of the '40s and '50s.
Boys grow up on the streets and learn to survive by stealing from the Whites who own the businesses.
They are incarcerated in detention centers.
The Plague (heroin addiction) is rampant.
What saves Claude Brown is that he doesn't get arrested after the age of 16, and he has a bad reaction the first time he tries heroin.
Like many of us, he's saved by accident.
He goes on to get an education and find himself.
Excellent book for young black males going through adolescence! I made troubled children I worked with that absolutely refused to read or had never read a book in their entire lives agree to read 1 chapter and that's it. They tore this whole book apart fighting over it and I never got it back :( lol ! awesome!
great book, provided great perspective on this mans life and reminded me that in life it is worth fighting for success despite the many obstacles one may encounter
My favorite book, hadn't read it in years. Actually brought tears to my eyes this time. It's such a vivid portrayal of the world he grew up in, immensely inspiring.
He was not the pure soul stuck in a pit of hellishness who fought the evil he saw-more the completely irredeemable liar, fighter, thief who was "..kicked out of every school in the city.." who, by age 10 had been hit by a bus(on purpose-having been thrown in front of it), hit by a car, shot, and thrown into various jails, 'reform' schools, even exiled to South Carolina to older relatives, who sought to break his sinful predilections through religion, to no avail.
On his return he relished even more the thieving, truancy, strife that thrilled him.
This is a tough book to read.It's fascinating and hard to look away though.
It's mostly a vivid retelling of one person's story that jumps around in his life.
What I really liked is it's a perspective that so often gets ignored.
How many books about the experience of black men are actually written by black men?
No sugar coating life experiences or mistakes.
And not in a way that tries to justify his actions either, this book hardly reads like a memoir so much as a terribly gripping story.
(hide spoiler)] but it's a great book.
I read this many years ago whlie on active duty overseas in the Air Force.
I had been assigned to read it in during the 1960's in high school and read it mechanically without much thought.
I reread it while in service much slower and it was extremely influential in starting a lifelong habit of reading non-fiction as well as a good novel.
It is still one of the most insightful books into the poverty of the United States and its effects on those forced into compacted areas of our cities and towns.
Still powerful reading.
Read as part of AP English. So glad Lynch chose this for our read, because I might not have been able to appreciate it otherwise. Probably one of the first books that opened my eyes to the realities of the past, and not just their imagined states. Set in the 1950s, an era of soda shoppes and black and white TV, but facing significant urban issues that still plague socities today - breaking the mold of our contrived notions of the 50s - great, great read. Loved being able to get a glimpse inside of this world.
My dad recommending that I read this autobiography. I wasn't really interested in Brown's story because it had nothing to do with me. I couldn't connect to that protagonist yet, somehow, his story and the pivotal events that occurred throughout his life kept me engaged. I'm not going to spoil the story for you, but this autobiographies that I have read solely because of the last sentence. Read it through the last sentence - trust me, it's worth it and it ends perfectly.
I have to say that the author could have said in two chapters what he said in 18. I had heard about this book growing up and the title itself got my attention. What got me to finally read the book was my college English 1B course. To say the least, the instructor has decided to not teach this book anymore because the entire class disliked it so much.
Its all to familiar; that which we never experienced but know all too well. A novel that I will always hold dear to me because it speaks not only for me but those who came before me. The promiseland is our intercity that we have lost our way in.
I wanted to like it because the first 40 pages were compelling. But I soon realized that there was no plot in sight. Every single vignette was all about how many people he stole from or beat up. How much he terrorized his parents. There seemed to be no inner reflection and character development. Blah!! On to the next book...
A. Historical influences1. The Great Migration north to New York City during the depression.2. Religious influences attempted to change city life. These included Coptics (All religion emerged in Ethiopia and Jesus was black) and the Muslims (a separatist movement which recruited most of its members in jail).3. Jazz was also an influence because it provided a way for some of the black youth to get out of the city. B. Why is this book important1. Its importance lies in its truth, its realism. It i
Religious influences attempted to change city life.
Jazz was also an influence because it provided a way for some of the black youth to get out of the city.
He cannot escape the city because his brother Pimp is in danger of falling under the spell of drugs (heroine).
It is only when Pimp gets arrested and put in jail that Claude has the freedom to escape and go to college to law school.
The blacks are also helpless because they do not own any of the city--the Goldberg’s (the Jews) did.
The main thing was that these cats were try to f**k over this paddy boy.
I think a lot of those "good boy" cats believed their parents when they were telling them that kind of stuff." "The real hip thing about the "baby" term was that it was something that only colored cats could say the way it was supposed to be said.
He saw us only through the impressions that the older folks had made." "He never even tried to see us, and he tried to treat us the way he had treated them.
The preface of this book accurately reflects the overarching intent of Manchild in the Promised Land: “I want to talk about the first Northern urban generation of Negroes.
In the 1940s and 1950s, the ghettos of Harlem were a difficult place for young African-Americans, who were deliberately marginalized by society and who did not see many options beyond the daily life of the street.
This stuff is not to be told too loud, because the kids might hear it.” P272If Reno was in a bad mood—if he didn't have any money and he wasn't high—he'd say, “Man, Sonny, they ain't got no kids in Harlem.
We had all come up together, and we were all a part of this thing, all a part of the Harlem scene in one way or another, all a part of Jim's death."-p.219"I looked at her, and she was part of my childhood."-p.273"Man, Sonny, they ain't got kids in Harlem.
I ain't never been a kid, man.
I don't know what happened, man, but I think I missed out on that childhood thing, because I don't ever recall bein' a kid."-p.295"There are so many things about Harlem that have changed, and they don't seem possible for Harlem.
