https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4129749-the-president-s-daughter
They had a daughter (Elizabeth Ann) the year before Harding was elected President of the United States.
Harding sent her money to care for her daughter during his Presidency, but when he died suddenly, Nan lost that source of income.
Nan self-published the book, or "The Elizabeth Ann Guild" did, to raise money to save benefit all "love children".
Harding's daughter.
Fascinating read, lots of overblown prose and lots of mushy sentimentality, but a fascinating look at a 100 year old political scandal.
Ms. Britton tries her best to support her daughter, but the times were not amenable to a single mother.
She tried to get money from Harding's siblings, but they were not inclined to support Britton's daughter, so she wrote this book to make some money.
It is sad that Miss Britton felt that Harding was as into her as she was into him.
I don't think that I have as generous an opinion of Mr. Harding and the affair as Miss Britton did.
My only regret is that it does not follow Miss Britton's nor her daughter's life after the publication of the book.
The worst I've ever readI think this is the all-time worst book I have ever read. The author rarely focuses on her daughter. The author is totally narcissistic, self-involved, and self-focused. So much drivel about the love she had for President Harding. The entire book is "woe is me." She complains about never having money yet somehow managed to spend well beyond her means. I've never been so disappointed in a book.
Could have been an interesting book. Maybe it was simply the writing style of a non-writer of the age. Not too much about the president's daughter, but a lot of complaining by his lover of many years. Looking forward to reading his biography to learn about her from a different perspective. Still a few presidential biographies away.
Nan dedicated her volume, "with understanding and love to all unwedded mothers, and to their innocent children whose fathers are usually not known to the world." Nan Britton's claim, startling in its time for all the nation, is detailed in Chapter 28 which begins, "The latter part of February, 1919, I knew for a certainly that I was to become the mother of Warren Harding's child…" Is this autobiographical work (and also biographical - the story of Elizabeth Ann) is this book fiction or non-fiction?
Is this book the work of Nan Britton or of a ghost writer?
CompellingQuite a narrative. But the story desperately needs an afterword to explain the publication details and the aftereffects of its publication , Britain's story leaves the reader wondering ,so how did this affect Msan, her daughter, and Harding's memory.
Warren G Harding had a long-term affair with Nan Britton, a young women from his hometown. She met Harding when she was 14 and he was 30 years her senior. The affair began during his days as a Senator and continued as he was President. From this affair, a daughter was born. This is the true story.
Harding would never make it today...wouldn't be able to hide the mistresses and the illegitimate child. Nan Britton sounds like a very immature and still obsessed woman, which I suppose is why so many didn't believe her story. Interesting read.
An eye-opening read!I couldn't put the book down for the first half. However the second half tended to random stories and later the reason why the author decided to publish the book. It's definitely the first "kiss and tell" book.
I like books about the Harding scandals but I found this book hard to believe. Was interesting until the point when Harding died. Then it was basically unreadable.
