https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6504133-berlin-embassy
This book opens in September 1939 in Berlin on the eve of a world war with a young William Russell working at the US Embassy in the Immigration Department trying to help a begging, pleading mass of humanity escape Nazi Germany.
He truly sensed the urgency of getting out of Nazi Germany more so than any pre-war American account I've read.
This book nearly made me change my mind after the description of what it was like to live under a truly evil fascist regime.
William Russell does an excellent job of setting the stage for Nazi oppression with his inside account of his days in the US embassy at the outbreak of the war.
The account that Russell provides of the regime trend from the absurd to the truly shocking and give a perspective that is hard to find.
He provides an account that is a truly invaluable primary resource for historians.
While people like William Shrier were trying to tell a journalistic story (which is also a wonderful source and should not be discounted) this book gives great insight into the times.
Russell is an excellent chronicler of the mood, the social upheaval and the increasing deprivation experienced by German citizens during this period, as he goes about his duties at the US Embassy in Berlin.
This is a society about to run the gamut from delirious euphoria over their Fuehrer's genius to utter devastation at war's end.
Russell paints us a clear-eyed portrait of the end of an era as he too endures the deprivations, frustrations and desperation of life in a totalitarian state.
His description of a skiing vacation in the Harz Mountains is particularly poignant, as the odious reality of life under the Nazis is still somewhere in the distance.
Very interesting read!I found this to be an excellent first hand narrative of the a very important time period. One can only hope people learn from history so they are not doomed to it being repeated.
Historically of great value because of its objectivity and accuracy.Because it is written truthfully.It shows that a civilised society can be fooled by a corrupt sociopathic leader who will lead a country to its destruction from within.
It reminds me why we need to be aware of and educated about the world and our responsibilities as individuals to know what, why, how and where our political and moral opinions and actions are both to bear.
What took place in Germany, in all of Europe so long ago could still happen to democracy and all its afforded freedoms and responsibilities of today.
This book served as a reminder to me that we must never again delay or hesitate to maintain and protect our freedoms or our way of governance.
We need to remember such infamies to guard against them ever happening again.
In this way we can remain in control and in freedom for everyone.
I ended up not getting to it, but out of curiosity and hoping it would jog a memory or two of my time in Berlin I started reading - it's a quick read, just over 200 pages.The writer is not what I'd call brilliant, but not bad, and he happened to be working in the US Embassy in Berlin in the late 1930s and into 1940.
If you're into pre-war Europe you'll find this a quick and easy read.
The book is a true account of what was happening in Berlin at the beginning of WWII in 1939-40 when NAZI Germany was embarking on subjugating the European continent.
The story is told in first person of an American diplomat assigned to the U.S. Embassy in Berlin as he processes the applications for those Germans and U.S. Citizens lucky enough to leave for America before all war breaks out.
He details the trails and tribulations of traveling inside Germany on personal and professional business as he assess what may come about with an outbreak of war.
A great introduction to the war in GermanyThis is an excellent description about the ambience, life and the people in Germany just prior to and during the start of the World War II, all provided with the incisive, observant and skillful writing of a young American working for the U.S consulate in Berlin. The author personally experienced life in Germany in those years. All in all, It is intriguing to realize how a narcissist Dictator and his Nazi propaganda machine resemble the life and conditions we are currently experiencing in the USA. It seems We never learn from the past....
I loved this book as it is a story written from a first hand experience by the author. Though is is chronicle of events in Berlin at the beginning of WWII, it reads as a novel. What I loved about it was that contrary to what most films, books etc., the majority of Germans were against he war and Nazism. Written in a very accessible prose and though it is a tough subject it is written to include the humor with which the average German citizens saw their plight.
View from the MiddleThis is a good and interesting read to add to the pre-war narratives of Shirer and others (The Beast in the Garden, e.g.). I am more interested in the wall up to the war than in the father familiar battle details because I feel therein lies the useful truths for our age. Transfers from text to e-,text are somewhat careless or under edited, but the shared experience comes through
Erie reading evokes a sense of deja vu.Difficult to relate to in the absence of foreign travel or experience with foreign cultures. Speculation about attitudes of the people after the War is inevitable. The discussion regarding “quotas” seems timeless. A worthwhile read for anyone looking for insights into prewar German society and methods/analysis of mass opinion molding.
World War II StoryAn interesting book, which gives a young American's view of Germany at the start of the war. He gives us the view of how Germans felt about Hitler and the Nazi Party. As a counselor official, he also describes how fleeing people were handled and treated. There are many mistakes in the text of the story.
An interesting insider's view of Nazi Germany written by an American embassy employee stationed in Berlin at the start of the war. He continued working there until the Spring of 1940. He paints a grim picture of Germany under the Nazis
Great read for those who like to read about this time in history.Great history, what a time and place to experience.But every experience the author writes about us not where I would have wanted to be at that time.
Not very entertaining,expected a much different finale,very disappointed,will not recommend!Very dissapointed, not a great finale,will not recommend to any of my friends.expected a diferente end to the story,very different expectations!
Great eyewitness account of Berlin at the start of WWIIHaving been to Berlin a couple of times, I really appreciated the anecdotes and first hand accounts of what Germans were going through at the start of WWII. Gives historians a different perspective.
Good day by day description Good daily description of life in Berlin but no real driving theme. Never quite sure where the story was headed.
Really liked itThe book is well written and insightful. It paints a picture of Germany before the winner got to write the history book. That makes it quite unique.
Good not greatInteresting read. However doesn't really get to a climax or even an umbrella ideal. Good context however. That's really it.
The author manned the visa desk in the Berlin embassy while Hitler rose and European countries fell. His insider look into life under the Nazis was a nice follow-up read to The Home Front: Life in America During World War II as both focus on normal life under these extraordinary conditions. Russell details contemporary jokes, trying to shop for thread and other basics, and reproduces newspaper articles from the virulent, anti-British press. There are also several applicant cases that add to this unique WWII memoir.
autobiography of American diplpomat in Berlin - early days of WWII (1939-41)
