https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17309.This_Present_Darkness
Tall, handsome angels are associated with Protestantism, and foul demons are associated with, well, everything else (e.g., New Age spirituality, Eastern religions, and any philosophy that does not place Christ at its center).
Speaking of which, I'm not even sure if This Present Darkness can technically be called "Christian," since in it, Peretti has created his own bizarre cosmology nearly from whole cloth--one that ignores the very real notion of personal responsibility, since good and evil in this novel are solely the province of unseen angels and demons--which is why I honestly can't recommend this novel to anyone, Christian or non-Christian.
While some may disdainfully complain that Peretti is nothing but a fantasy writer for Christians and that his works cause the easily influenced to see demons behind every tree, in my opinion he does the church a service by reminding us of the supernatural forces which actually *are* at work in our world and which many of us have done out best to forget in this "modern" era.
Do they function exactly as Peretti describes?
:) But there are undeniably some good principles behind the action, and a darned good story to boot.
He doesn't ever stop telling his story to preach some valuable theological lesson.
The overarching theme of this book is "the power of prayer".
But the story is straight out of a Stephen King novel.
A small town is under attack from dark forces, both in this world and in the spiritual realm.
The story is told from the points of view of humans and their angel protectors.
Even if you think Christianity is a farce, this book still stands on its own.I will also say that the sequel "Piercing the Darkness" wasn't nearly as good.
I read this some 15 years ago and still it resonates. A great depiction of good v. evil. Angels v. Demons. Highly recommend!
Written as a "Christian science fiction" or a Christian fantasy, this involved a behind the scenes war between angels and demons, taking place invisibly while Earthly struggles are taking place contiguously. Obviously there is going to be a certain audience for this kind of fiction, but it was well written and entertaining.
Hands down, the most eye opening book I've ever read that actually changed my views and outlook at everyday happenstance in the world.
Sure it's fiction but man..this particular fiction has become my fact by deliberate choice because for me there is no down side in doing so.
I passed it on to my husband, who couldn't put it down, then my son who also loved it and finally I convinced my non-reader daughter to buckle down and read it.
O man.
I had high hopes for the "Left Behind" series that crashed and burn when I couldn't get past the first chapter of the first book.
This book was written in 1986, but I read it for the first time just recently.
There are some things about the book that seem a bit dated now, but at the time I'm sure Frank Peretti was breaking new ground in a lot of ways.This book was written at a time when the big enemy to the church seemed to be the occult, and it exercising influence in American daily life, and surreptitiously leading Christians astray; hence the main themes of the book.What this book did that was unique in its time was give a full-on view of the spiritual warfare that happens all around us as we fight the “good fight”.I found the human characters engaging with a lot of depth.
That is except to admit while not the worst nor the greatest quality of writing Peretti is in my eyes a powerful story teller (although I must admit in my view his Monster is in some aspects more powerful) and for what he (I believe aimed to do his work is fine).This Present Darkness is in many ways a thriller but I do not believe that the thriller elements are the main focus of this novel.
After all this is a Christian novel tackling the spiritual world.This Present Darkness focuses on showing how demonic influence affects the physical world through branching its story into two narratives.
I was foggy enough on the details that it was almost like reading a new book, but the story line came back to me quickly and I didn't have to struggle with whether or not I believed it was likely that angels and demons might be interested or involved in how human issues might be resolved.The premise of the novel is that a college community has become a place of interest to the Universal Consciousness Society, a New Age/Eastern Mysticism group which actually has built a significant membership among the respectable members of the community.
How do I review a book like this? I asked myself this question many times as I got further and further in, close and closer to the end.How can I write a review worthy of this novel?Now we must pause, and we must reflect… What made it so good? How can you even explain what made it so good?There are no normal, straightforward words that can convey what this book really is. So I’ll go into descriptive/comparative mode now…This book is dark, it’s frightening, maybe even slightly gritty. Kind of gave
So I’ll go into descriptive/comparative mode now…This book is dark, it’s frightening, maybe even slightly gritty.
Or, more appropriately, it’s like when you’re driving home in a storm, the sky so dark that it feels like nighttime, and suddenly the sunlight starts seeping through the clouds, and the rain stops.
I once read a quote in another book that said, “You live through the night, knowing dawn is coming.” And I guess that’s sort of how this book felt.
It’s impossible to review this book well.
I’m not going to tell you.I always feel, after I write a review, that I didn’t write it very well.
The story started out just like any science fiction fantasy book and then introduced a Christian component which I was perfectly fine with though I originally thought it was merely a basic good vs.
Part of the reason I believe that it was Buddhism that was being rebuked is: the importance of meditation, the reference to dragons (described as dragons but written as demons) (which mean a different thing in Buddhism than it does in Christianity) and several other practices I saw misinterpreted and maligned.
Again, I would have liked it had it not equated Eastern Religions with Satanism.
I read it almost 10 years ago, as a sensitive, emotionally-wounded teenager, as I was being funneled through a fundamentalist religious conversion.Basically, this book introduced a paranoid neurosis into my awareness of self-in-the-world.
"The world" (read:everything except for fundamentalist warfare-obsessed Christianity) is painted as basically evil, and all well-meaning people who aren't Christians are actually playthings of demonic spirits from the Dark Side.
It was like walking into air and suddenly realizing that I'd been in hazy fog for years.This story-book would have been ok as a D-grade horror novel, but as an actual spiritual teaching?
Although angels appeared many times in the Bible, their battles were never mentioned as it was in Daniel’s vision (v.10:13).
Peretti’s main character Hank Busche is a prayerful man, a pastor, protected by angels and chosen to fulfill a mission for the small college town of Ashton.
Believing and living according to God’s Word is the best way in keeping the enemy away.Furthermore, prayer and worship brings us into the presence of God. Prayer is an open communication that empowers and comforts us.
It is God who empowers them according to their purpose; the same thing may be said with us.Please, understand that it is not my intention to discourage anyone from reading this book.
Back when I was into Christian Literature, I really loved this author. I've moved past a lot of Christian Authors, persay, but Frank Peretti will always have my heart. He's very witty and well spoken (and a ham if you've heard him speak in public). This book was written with a lot of creativity and enlightenment, and though I've moved past a lot of the 'spiritual warefare' movement that ripped through the bible belt in the 90's, this book is still one of the most riveting I've ever read. It's flat out scary at times.
I forgot I had read this. I thought it was good, but in the context of the 90s when the New Age movement was booming and conservative Christianity was looking for a response. Peretti put all of it in a Christian context and showed us an invisible world behind the scenes that although fiction, became reality for many people.
Yes, its over stylized with unrealistically gentle depictions of evil, but its the grand-daddy of them all and deserves its five stars.
I especially found it absurd that the villains would be controlled by demons while engaging in Eastern meditation and preaching unity and self-awareness.
I understand that this book was supposed to be about the power of prayer or something like that, but it seemed to me that it was more about the evils of New Age religions and philosophy.
I could have looked past this if the story was at all interesting or engaging, but at one point I almost fell asleep while trying to get through this book.
I read this book twice, about a decade apart, and would read it again.
Since I have an open mind about religion I could read it as a story and not as a religious philosophy.
My dad didn't like the book because he didn't agree with the religious views in the book, but I saw them as background for the characters.Anyway, the book is about the basic fight between angels and demons, but you see it from the angels' and demons' perspective, as well as from the humans' perspective that they are protecting/controlling.
I found it a very interesting read both times.
I never actually read any of it past the cover blurb, but the idea of a nefarious new age plot to enslave the world struck me as hilarious, considering the things I knew about Wicca from my adolescent 'I wanna be a witch' phase.
The common denominator of all those terrible new age religions.
I'm sure some awful plot involving compost is the answer.Perhaps the Terrible New Agers (inc.) planned to hoard all the world's compost, leaving the Good People without fertilizer unless they left the True Path.
This did well in presenting a community, that of small town Ashton, in displaying a sense of humor, and gets points for imagination.In this novel, dark forces are gathering in the town--a battle of good and evil, with two chosen humans, the young pastor Henry Busch and the weary, cynical publisher of the small town newspaper, Marshall Hogan.
Also gathering are an Angelic host, but they need "prayer cover" from believers to have the strength to defeat the evil.
What kills this novel for me is what Peretti sets as his forces of darkness.
Damn, It was a long day that involved my spend over 100$ on my truck, so to relax I got a pizza and went to the library to find a good horror novel.
I did not realize it was a christian propaganda book untill halfway through.
But once you realize what the message is (new-age, mystasism, eastern religion, meditation, humanism...
And I am ok with a religious themed book, but this was pure propaganda.
boooooooooring.p.s. does anyone know any good horror novels.
I don't have a TV or Computer so i need cheesy novels for my mindless entertainment.
This book annoyed me in so many ways. There were multiple typographical errors. The characters all began sentences with "Aw". Not every sentence, but enough to be really irksome. THe idea behind this book is interesting but the characters were so unbelievable. The Christians were either fanatical or really evil in disguise. Everything that happens is attributed to either demons or angels. It was just too much. I did finish the book and I have to say at least the pace did pick up about halfway through. Still, not worth a lot of time.
I might prefer to give this a 3.5 stars. It's very much a youth book and told that way but it's very readable for older readers. I liked this book and it made its point while remaining a good and readable story.
I don't think you could consider this a feel good book but if you are Christian oriented in your faith, then you will probably enjoy this more than others will.While I am not a Christian myself, this was a particularly interesting read - especially with how it introduces Angels & Demons.Plot ***Spoilers***This Present Darkness takes place in the small college town of Ashton.
When she is released the next day, she discovers that the film in her camera was destroyed.Marshall Hogan, owner/editor-in-chief of the Clarion decides to go to the town police station/courthouse and confront Alf Brummel, the police chief, about the incident.
As demons characters carry out their assignments, Marshall and Hank become more determined to discover the truth.
Aren’t they going to do anything to stop this evil plot from taking over the town?Wow. This book has changed the way I think of angels and demons.
That God told this angel to come and talk to Daniel, but the angel got held up fighting some demon over in Persia.
I believe this angel was talking about how he was fighting with the prince of the Persian kingdom, who was a fallen angel, or demon, since he was resisting one of the host of heaven.
Peretti's book This Present Darkness is brilliant.
Points-of-view change not only among various earthly characters but also among both angelic and demonic beings.It is absolutely fascinating to get a glimpse of what the spiritual realm of our existence might be like!
Peretti does a masterly job of storytelling, weaving multiple threads of experience, POV, plot, goals, schemes, attacks, counterattacks, and the spiritual awakening of mortal characters.
As I finished reading, my only consolation in "leaving" the POV of angels is that I have the sequel Piercing the Darkness sitting next to me, which I will eagerly open up to read as soon as I have posted this review!
Keep in mind that it's written from the viewpoint of the fundamental religious right.2.
But, Peretti, I hope is just blinded by his faith, and just not flat out retarded.The Cons:For some reason, I don't think Mr. Peretti buys into any religion except Christianity, the Liberal left, higher eductation, women's rights, and philosophy.His characters were pretty thin, and cookie cutter.The end is pretty Scooby-Doo. ZOINKS!The Pros:Marshall Hogan as an everyman.
He was pretty much the best character in the book.I dunno.
You really know what I think the best religious book out there is, and a true testament of what it means to have Faith?
A common criticism of Peretti is that the writing isn't that great.
Another common criticism is the personification and representation of angels and demons, and that may depend on your personal theology.
Before, I could never fully understand it but this book gave me a glimpse of why prayer is important, however it works in real life.
It gave me an idea of why it could be important to pray, to listen to the Spirit when we're prompted to pray, why God won't intervene unless we ask Him, and what might happen when we do obey.
That being said, I don’t think it was hurtful (unless you think he’s getting much of this from the Bible), just interesting.But overall, I think it is totally worth reading simply because of the example of one of the main characters, the pastor Hank Bush.
I’ve prayed a handful of times while reading/listening to this for God to make me more of a man like that, more a man like this fictional character ‘Hank Bush.’ It was a good story, creative, but this is mainly why I'm thankful I listened to it.
I don't necessarily believe that angels and demons physically fight each other like in this book, but of course, no one can know whether they do or not.
For that matter, no one can know for certain that God exists.
I have chosen to believe He does, but I would never claim to have proof of His existence.Anyway, pretty good book (certainly better than the sequel and other books by Peretti, although he wrote some YA novels that were pretty good), but I'm really surprised it showed up on the Great American Reads list.
