https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28922.An_Artist_of_the_Floating_World
But he still has two daughters; one married with a son, and one trying to get married, but she’s getting a bit old for that time and culture; she’s past her mid-20’s.Japan was occupied by the United States, of course, and we imposed our systems on them; everything from our politics to baseball.
The clash of cultures is shown by this passage: “[The hotel] had been amongst the most pleasant of the Western-style hotel in the city; these days, though, the management had taken to decorating the rooms in a somewhat vulgar manner – intended, no doubt, to strike the American clientele with whom the place is popular as being charmingly ‘Japanese.’” The main character was a teacher and an artist commissioned to draw pro-war posters – are people turning against him?
The gist of this novel is the narrator's culpability for his patriotic actions during the war with the U.S. Set in a suburb of Tokyo during the American occupation, the narrator, Masuji Ono, is now surrounded by those who blame him for Japan's disastrous gamble on war and those like himself.
Ono's generation was that of the old men cheerleading for war.
In his youth he trained as an artist of the demimonde or "floating world," but turned to graphic propaganda during the war.
An Artist of the Floating World reminds me in some ways of Kawabata's  The Old Capital.

Had I picked this book up without knowing who had written it, I would never have guessed it was Ishiguro.
He is moping in his home and doesn’t spend much time trying to shape the present, as such the story suffers.
He just seems to get on with life because he has to (though there is nothing in his story to suggest a reason for such a resignation.) Perhaps I expect too much from Ishiguro.
This is one of his earlier books, and of course it would not display the same sense of skill, but I do expect certain things.
رسم صورة لمجتمع اليابان بعد الاحداث التي أدت الى تدمير البلاد.
ولكن فنانا يلوم من اقدم على الانتحار حراء هذه الاعمال فيكفي الاعتذار.ومن خلال تدابير الزواج لابنته الصغرى يوضح بشكل رائع عن تأثير هذه الاعمال حيث كانت سببا في فشل ترتيبات الزواج الاولى، ولكنه تنازل عن كبرياءه لعمل ترتيبات مع أصدقاءه القدامى لمدحه امام عائلة زوجته المقبله.اخر الرواية يركز على ان مستقبل اليابان الان اصبح واعدا ورائعا بحماس الشباب ونشاطهم ثم يجد الاعذار انه رغم الأخطاء السابقة فقد كانت روحا سائدة لمجتمع كامل وليس استثناءا فقد كان فنانا لعالم عائم وهو عام وسبح مع التيار.
And TADA you have An Artist of the Floating World.This book had potential to be a very emotionally charged commentary on a nation rebuilding itself from its charred (atomic-bombed) remains and reflecting on the flawed ideologies of its notorious past.But instead it felt like a curious combination of The Remains of the Day and A Pale View Of Hills with little improvisation thrown in.
If in TRotD, Stevens laments living a life devoted to serving a Nazi-sympathizing, Jew-hating Lord with unquestioning loyalty, in AAotFW, Ono san experiences feelings of profound guilt for having created paintings supporting the war and Imperial jingoism.
الحرب العالمية الثانية لها تأثير كبير على الأدب يكتب كازو إيشيجورو عن التحولات في الفكر الياباني بعد الحربورأي الشباب عن مسئولية الجيل القديم عن الحرب والهزيمة رسام متقاعد آمن بالحرب ودعمها بفنه يُعيد تقييم مواقفه وأحداث حياته الماضية بعد الأذى الذي تعرضت له بلده وتغيُر العالم سياسيا وثقافياالكاتب يمر في الرواية على موضوعات مختلفة منها تأثر الشباب الياباني بالثقافة الأمريكية بعد الحربالتقاليد اليابانية في الزواج والتعاملات اليومية, وسرعة وجدية خطوات النهوض والتعافي في اليابان بعد الهزيمةالترجمة جميلة والسرد هادئ بين الماضي والحاضر
During World War II he ended up on the wrong team; he arted up some propaganda, and now that Japan's lost the war he is embarrassing.
Maybe his daughter's impending marriage will be called off, if the family discovers some of his disgraceful former attitudes.
(hide spoiler)] Nothing happened.Ono was an artist of the floating, lantern-lit world of prostitutes.
Here's the famous artist Utamaro, from around 1700:It was hard to find a print that didn't have a massive dick in itBut ukiyo can apparently also be translated as "sad, troublesome world." So Ono painted geishas and, later, war propaganda.
Although Ishiguro had not lived through this period and lives in England, he evokes the languid rhythms of life in post-war Japan with panache.
His protagonist addresses the reader in the second person over the entire book, telling us of his career as a propagandistic artist of pre-war Imperial Japan and his retirement.
The protagonist was, in fact, trained as a traditional painter before being seduced by dreams of "modern" Japan led him to political painting.
Had I read this first, I would have liked this and would have hated Remains.In my opinion, the similarities are obvious but there are also some minor differences.
Also, Ishiguro was so brilliant that the voices of Ono and Mr. Stevens are totally different from each other.
The examples of this are when younger people address the aging Ono with Sensei and his daughter referring to him as third person "Would my father be kind enough to consider..." instead of how we say this nowadays ""Would you consider..." This was the reason why I was hesitant to read another Ishiguro book.
Set in Japan right after WW2, Masuji Ono, a retired artist, looks back on his life and career from when he was a celebrated painter in the pre-war years to the social pariah he now is in the post-war years thanks to his ties to imperialist Japan.
I like the title of this book and found out that the “Floating World” was a period of time in Japan’s history noted for its decadence and celebration of transient pleasures, so I guess Ishiguro’s drawing comparisons to that era with either pre or post-war Japan?
"And if on reaching the foot of the hill which climbs up to my house, you pause at the Bridge of Hesitation and look back towards the remains of our old pleasure district, if the sun has not yet set completely, you may see the line of old telegraph poles – still without wires to connect them – disappearing into the gloom down the route you have just come, And you may be able to make out the dark clusters of birds perched uncomfortably on the tops of the poles, as though awaiting the wires along
The title refers to the kind of life artists lead - away from social responsibility chasing after soft, beautiful things that become unreal in daytime like pleasures from district.
The novel is about narrator's dilemma - of having to chose between avoiding those pitfalls and his artistic need to pursuit beauty
Much like in real conversations, there are tangents and complete changes of topic.Masuji, a retired artist, often finds himself wanting to describe what happened with one of his daughters , but somehow takes us back to his days of art apprenticeship and the trials Japan faced during WWII.
His daughters hint that this may be because ofMasuji's past.The book is very slow to reveal what it is that could potentially be spoiling his daughter's chances at marriage - but the journey that leads you there is an altogether interesting one.Masuji's opinions, which he heavily showcased in his paintings during WWII, are no longer held by society.
The tight-knit communities in which he daily moves, the by-lanes, the alleys which witness his daily travels and those numerous heads that pop up at the windows every time he closes his door; absolutely nothing is inescapable in the life of an ordinary men.
Dignity and self-respect brings a sense of calmly happiness to the life of an ordinary man.
Suichi admitting flaws of the nationalistic chimera, the misplaced self-respect and prevailing shamelessness veiled under a patriotic farce is a tale told by every life of a torn nation.
Steady, measured, gentle, sure-handed, slightly seductive.Ishiguro's narrator is fooling himself for sure throughout his tale, but you almost believe him.Some wonderfully graceful pacing, with the situations and pages melting into one another, which as one reviewer here remarked, makes a "floating world" all its own.It sort of reminds me of the thing said about Flaubert's "Sentimental Education"- the main theme is largely heard in the background.
Brilliant trick, that.Ishiguro's up the same kind of thing here, though I gotta say he doesn't quite pull it off as well.the narrator's spent some time polishing the bronze of the powers that be in ww2 Japan, living in a sensual, apathetic 'floating world', and now he's come out it (somewhat) to face the fact that his life has been a sort of lie.
In this way and that I tried to save the old pailSince the bamboo strip was weakening and about to breakUntil at last the bottom fell out.No more water in the pail!No more moon in the water!
There's enjoyable monotony and then there's monotonous monotony. This novel falls into the latter category. Disappointingly. I personally think Ishiguro suffers the sophomore struggle with this novel. Eh, I don't know. This one just wasn't for me. It didn't entice me at all. I was just reading about these characters doing things and that was really it. However it written very well. But that's expected from Ishiguro.
This book is difficult to describe. What is it about? An old man, an artist, a young man, grandchildren and satisfaction. Also regret and the courage to live a life you can be proud of.
The consistency of Ono’s roundabout dialogue throughout the novel is evidence of Ishiguro’s masterful knowledge of the Japanese way of life that had yet to change since the end of World War Two, and it establishes Ono as a culturally consistent figure; it makes him an authentic narrator, a genuine person in this world, an honest Japanese gentleman.
In fact, now that I think of it, I am sure Suichi used it that evening."At first glance this technique seems to remove authenticity from the story and cause the reader to feel doubt; how can we rely on a narrator who is constantly changing his mind?
As he explains his daughter Noriko's attempts to find a husband, we are first led to believe that her lack of success is simply a result of unfortunate timing; the war threw up obstacles.
As the novel progresses, we learn that two previous attempts to find a match for Noriko - these are long investigations in which the prospective groom's family will hire a detective to look into the potential bride's family and associates - have fallen through, and that this is due to her father's activities as an artist.
I liked the theme of the book, the setting, and what it is trying to say.
I even enjoyed the writing and the details of post-war life in Japan sporadically.
Was it an apology for Japan's excesses during the war?
The narrator was not sympathetic, and I think we could have done without the endless discussion of indoctrination between grandfather and grandson about how weak women are.
I think this annoyed me the most and put me off the narrator.
This is my first book by this author.
I mean, it's post-war Japan!
Το θέμα που πραγματεύεται το βιβλίο αφορά την Ιαπωνία μετά το τέλος του Δεύτερου Παγκοσμίου Πολέμου. Δεν είχα ασχοληθεί ποτέ με το αντικείμενο και ομολογώ πως δεν ξέρω και πολλά γι' αυτό. Όμως ήταν πολύ ενδιαφέρον και νομίζω πως αξίζει λίγο ψάξιμο.
After all, Ishiguro is famously a Japanese immigrant who has lived in England all his life, and it's my understanding that several of his first books are set in an Asia he only knew theoretically; he seems to have gotten that out of his system early in his career, in that all his later novels are thoroughly Western in approach and setting, but it still makes these early books fascinating to read and ponder.Although I can state with authority that I liked The Remains of the Day better -- Ishiguro simply handles the subject with more finesse and subtlety in that particular book, and sets it in an environment that Westerners are much more familiar with, making the subversion of its subject matter even more powerful -- anyone who is a fan of that book is strongly encouraged to read this unofficial companion volume too, a one-two punch that collectively is one of the most devastating looks at the rise of 20th century fascism ever written.
As we try to piece together the truth of this man and his life, there is a heaviness of spirit that emerges, a sense of failure that is misunderstood, and a sense that Ono, the narrator, not only misunderstands himself but also those around him.Like much of Ishiguro’s work, this book leaves you at the end with a lot of questions you feel you must not only ask, but answer.
Another question that I have pondered over my life is that of what makes an artist or a piece of art great?
Kazuo Ishiguro le lauréat du Prix Nobel de Littérature de 2017 est en très grande forme dans "Un artiste du monde flottant".
La reprise est sans le moindre doute meilleure mais je suis très content qu'Ishiguro nous a donné les deux romans.J'ai des petites réserves à l'égard de l'authenticité de "Un artiste du monde flottant" dont les événements se déroulent au Japon parce qu'Ishiguro est un anglais.
Donc, on peut facilement croire que le portrait du Japon de l'après la guerre que présente Ishiguro dans "Un artiste du monde flottant" est fiable.
Pourtant on ne peut pas être certain qu'Ishiguro nous présente un Japon qu'il a connu.
(3,5*)
Това е може би най-японската книга на Ишигуро.Ситуацията е в следвоенна Япония. Дискусиите в романа са обичайно заподозрените - реконструкция на миналото, как войната се отразява на малкия човек, или още по-конкретно - на човекът на изкуството? Източните ценности присъстват много силно. До какво може да доведе чувството за вина и докъде може същото да те извиси?Въпроси, чийто отговор е различен във всяка една страна, която е преживяла Втората световна война. Ишигуро дава отговорите и повдига нови въпроси, сякаш от името на Япония. Хареса ми. Бих я сравнил с Остатъка от деня. Но много по-японска.
However, I think there are a few points after reading it worth mentioning so that my friends, perhaps, would like to follow suit and may suggest more ideas for creative reading in this community.First, it was mildly disappointing to me when I could come across the words 'floating world' after reading pages after pages till I reached this paragraph:We lived throughout those years almost entirely in accordance with his (i.e. Mori-san's) values and lifestyle, and this entailed spending much time exploring the city's 'floating world' -- the night-time world of pleasure, entertainment and drink which formed the backdrop for all our paintings.
Bu romanda da her satır ince ölçülüp biçilerek yazılmış, dikkatli bir okumayı hakkediyor ve de gerektiriyor.
İranlı yönetmen Asghar Fahradi ile benzer bir yönleri olduğunu düşünüyorum.
Asghar Fahradi de küçük görünen ahlaki bir meseleyi alır ve ondan koskoca bir film çıkarmayı başarır, çok da güzel kotarır bu işi, benzer bir durum Ishigura romanlarında da var.
Örneğin bu roman kısa bir roman olmasından ötürü karakterler çok derinlikli değil (başkarekter hariç) ama yazar o kadar usta ki bu bizi rahatsız etmiyor, anlatacaklarını pat pat gözümüze sokarak değil de satır aralarında biz ne olduğunu anlamadan bize veriyor olması bence büyük romancıların başarabileceği bir şey.
En Un artista en el mundo flotante (de igual modo que en su novela debut, Pálida luz de las colinas), muestra su cultura japonesa, no sólo por la localización de la novela, sino por el estilo amable, sereno y desapegado de la narración.
"Lo mejor en la vida, me decía siempre, se vive una noche y desaparece con el día, Ono, eso que la gente llama el mundo flotante, es un mundo que Gisaburo sabía apreciar muy bien".Y también como un hombre de acción, en los períodos turbulentos de la restauración imperial.
