https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99126.What_to_Listen_for_in_Music
As a fan of Bartok and Villa-Lobos and Satie, I loved Copland's apologist chapter for modern and contemporary music (contemporary for the 1957 edition), reminding readers and listeners that though m/c music is much more difficult because it breaks so thoroughly from the forms and tonal sounds with which we have become familiar (and which are scientifically verified to be mellifluous), it is the music of our day and we only do ourselves a disservice by not participating in it and working to understand it.
Moving quickly to allay the fears of those who don’t consider themselves musical, he strongly asserts that the ability to read music or recognize pitch isn’t necessary to be an “intelligent listener.” All that is necessary is active and conscious listening.Copland illustrates his point by noting three modes of listening to music: the sensuous plane, the expressive plane, and the musical plane.
He also includes brief sections of the musical notes for those who have the ability to read music.One of the most endearing aspects of Copland is his insistence on the necessity of listening to and appreciating various genres of music.
As to be expected from a contemporary composer, Copland makes a pitch for modern music: it is difficult, he acknowledges, but it is continuous in its use of musical elements with what has gone on before.To illustrate "free" forms, Copland, rather surprisingly, refers to Bach.Bach wrote a good many preludes (very often followed by a balancing fugue) many of which are in "free" form.
Though that "something" is necessarily general, like an emotion, it matters as what the composer wishes to communicate to his listeners.Copland urges the reader to listen for "the long line," the path along which a piece of music develops, and finally coheres.
***1/2.What better educator on classical music than Aaron Copland?
He managed to take me – a reader untrained in formal music practice or theory – by the hand and help me understand the underlying principles of its structure.
He did this by providing an outline of the most common musical forms and variations, and what their purposes were.
In addition, he also provided ways for today’s listener to better understand ‘modern’ music.
In those sections, it would have been helpful to have him sitting next to me at a piano to illustrate the forms he was describing.
I found this book very interesting, and thought it said more about its author than its subject, at least for me.
Copland's aim is to help the non-musician become a better, more sophisticated listener, so none of the information was news to me.
However, I often found his take on it interesting and occasionally illuminating.
He is extremely successful in his aim, too - this is a great introduction to how to approach classical music for serious listeners.
Full disclosure: I am a professionally trained musician (bachelor and master's degrees in composition, double bassist for more than fifteen years), so I realize this book isn't really intended for a person like me.
Everything is educational from a technical standpoint, and it was interesting to read a composition giant's musings, however opinionated and dated (can't say I agree with Copland that the double bass isn't used as a solo instrument!
I think Copland articulated very well the act of listening to music on different "planes": sensuous (for pure pleasure), expressive (composer's meaning), and "sheerly musical" (acoustic/structural elements).
Es corto, ameno y lleno de información muy educativa para los que queremos aprender más sobre música académica o "culta" (el término es bastante problemático pero...).
El único problema que encuentro con este libro es su inevitable envejecimiento con el paso del tiempo ya que habla de compositores tales como Stravinsky como "contemporáneos", siendo que, en este día en que he terminado de leer este libro Stravinsky se encuentra tan alejado de mí como podrían estarlo Schubert, Brahms o Mozart.
Desde que se publicó este libro la música ha cambiado muchísimo y me pregunto qué escribiría Copland sobre compositores como Glass, Nyman, Richter, Cage, Gorecki, etc....
en fin, supongo que con la debida perspectiva histórica y aceptando el inevitable paso del tiempo, este libro es realmente excelente.
A wonderful explanation of the basic principles of classical music, not an easy task!
He also does an admirable job of attempting to put in words some of the more mysterious elements of music.
Although I have a degree in music, I still learned a few things, and benefitted from those things that were review.
What I enjoyed the most about this book, indeed, the reason I read it, was "listening" to Aaron Copland talk about music.
You can often learn a bit about a composer's personality by listening to his works, but hearing him give a discourse on the subject was invaluable in appreciating his pieces more.
I enjoyed reading it. I felt that it improved my understanding of classical form considerably although my lack of musical knowledge made some chapters difficult. I have been reading it in conjunction with Bernstein and a variety of Youtube clips. I think it's a book I shall return to on occasion to deepen my understanding. I've already gained immensely in the area of early 20th century works and am looking forward to extending my listening range.It has also reinforced my interest in the period 1890-1930 when so much happened artistically that we still seem to be processing.
This book is cut up by a damaging assumption: classical music is difficult. Popular music is easy. Therefore elitism reduces the usefulness of this book.The best components of the book probe the four essential elements to music: rhythm, melody, harmony and tone colour. Besides that - it is not worth reading.
During his ninety years, he made major contributions to the distinctly American style of classical music, producing such ballets as Billy the Kid, Rodeo and Appalachian Spring, as well as the perennially recognizable (and also distinctly American) Fanfare for the Common Man. He wrote What to Listen for in Music as a guide for people unfamiliar with classical music.
In the book, Copland covers all the key elements of music, beginning with the foundations: Rhythm, Melody, Harmony and Tone Color (Timbre).
He closes the book with a discussion on Opera, Contemporary Classical Music and Film Music.
Excelente introdução para quem quer aprender a ouvir direito (ou de forma inteligente) música erudita. Com um Spotify na mão você aproveita ainda mais o livro. Recomendo demais!
While this book may clarify musical forms in the way an "Introduction to Music Appreciation" lecture might, its chapters on "Contemporary Music" (c. 1939) and "Film Music" are so short as to be meaningless, and even if they were more expansive, they have not aged well.
A very nice book if you want to understand classical music better.
I'm a regular concert goer, with some background in music, but nothing really in classical.
I've been curious about the forms of the music and how to better understand this sometimes complex music I hear in the concert hall.This book was a great introduction.
It doesn't get too much into the history and times of the composers, which many books on classical music tend to.
All that is interesting but not so much if you want to focus the nature of the music itself.
Standard issue for Freshman majors (or it least it was once upon a time) "What to Listen for..." runs the traditional wire between genuine approachability, and the deeper, music-nerd-driven understanding of music, composition, form, and the artist's own context.Although this is not quite the emotional trip as "Joy of Music" by Bernstein, it is the affections of a master laid in front of those of us who are interested.
Highly recommended as a first read for the concert-goer, the enthusiast, the budding musician, and even egg-heads from other fields.
Genuinely good, even if it is popular.
I am a musician and read this as part of a Humanities class and was worried about half the people in the room who had never taken a music lesson in their life.
I thought that it was a good book on how to listen to music and what to listen for, bringing it back to the basics of many genres.
I do not appreciate the writing style and Copland comes off as being a bit arrogant and high-brow in his writing, which can be annoying after reading the entire book.Overall, a decent book on music.
This was a required book for a very basic music appreciation course I had to take. It isn't a bad introduction to classical music, though in some parts it is a little dated. The best parts were Copland's descriptions of the compositional process, since, well, he was Aaron Copland. Also, I appreciated his moralizing about putting effort into music listening. Everything else in here you can find on Wikipedia.
Copland takes a fascinating topic and manages to make it seem tedious. Fraught with elitist overtones, this book takes on the tone of a lecture by an academic long past the prime of his tenure. Classical music is fascinating, a joy, a thrilling adventure. In Copland's hands it feels as if was left too long in a dehydrator.
This is a wonderful introduction to "classical" music by the American composer Aaron Copland. It is highly readable and chockfull of examples for laymen like myself armed with Deezer and largely illiterate in reading musical scores. It definitely enhanced immensely my listening skills and opened my mind to new works and composers with which I was previously unfamiliar. A must.
Wonderful introduction to music. Starts getting into modern and contemporary music, though it's not fully updated. Still, if you want to understand Beethoven, Bach, Tchaikovsky, or opera better in a painless and entertaining way, this book is for you.
Fine one, will use some ot very direct and explicit remarks of Mr. Copland in my educational work for sure...
Me pareció interesante y accesible y les propuse ir leyéndolo en casa para ir comentando y explicando en clase los diferentes temas.Los primeros capítulos nos permitieron reflexionar acerca de cómo escucha la música cada uno de nosotros, pero también sirvieron para resumir gran cantidad de contenidos puramente musicales que vemos durante las clases (teoría de la música, armonía, formas musicales, etc.) En ese sentido debo decir que el libro ha sido bastante útil, pero sólo porque mis alumnos ya sabían de qué les estaba hablando el autor.
Most people only hear one level of music when just listening to it, but as Aaron Copland explains in his book there are actually three. And he argues that a person should train themselves to listen for all three to better appreciate the music that they hear. In his book the Composer Aaron Copland explains what makes music music, and why you should care. Granted he makes assumptions based on this, being that you know what lots of musical jargon means, but if one is going to read this book that c
Most people only hear one level of music when just listening to it, but as Aaron Copland explains in his book there are actually three.
In his book the Composer Aaron Copland explains what makes music music, and why you should care.
Granted he makes assumptions based on this, being that you know what lots of musical jargon means, but if one is going to read this book that can be assumed.
The style of the book is quite the opposite however as it is very simple to follow with the beginning explaining how a composer sees his music, and then it goes into the elements of music and so on.
Escuchar atentamente, escuchar conscientemente, escuchar con toda nuestra inteligencia es lo menos que podemos hacer en apoyo de un arte que es una de las glorias de la humanidad""Cómo escuchar la música" de Aaron Copland nos enseña a apreciar esos detalles que pasan de largo al oyente casual de música.
Es una excelente libro para todo fanático musical, y no tan fanático.
SI bien, el modelo musical que utiliza es académico, es sumamente importante para cualquiera que quiere apreciar el majestuoso arte que es la música.
A very good book for both musicians and non musicians!
If you're a music teacher, you should DEFINITELY read it because it's an excellent example of how to explain difficult concepts to non-musicians.If you're not a musician, you might need a little bit of help understanding some of the more complicated concepts, but don't be afraid to ask for help or do extra research.
I'm sure you won't regret it!Not to mention, you get to read the voice and advice of Aaron Copland HIMSELF!Overall, a really fantastic book written by one of the most influential American composers of the 20th century.
The author says it's a book even for lay people, when, in fact, it would be preferable to have a minimum of sensitivity and musical knowledge.
If that IS the case, then it's an AMAZING book that opens the door to a semi-lay music lover for a world of technicalities, of variations, behind the scenes of the final result that we listen to, and makes us have a much more complex understanding of the music we listen to.
It is really inspiring to put yourself in a composer's shoes and go through the steps of creating a new work of art!
A great introduction to ideas, vocabulary, and structure for music appreciation. His thesis is that knowledge and active engagement make more richer musical experiences, and that restricting your consumption to background listening or certain periods restricts our diet unnecessarily. He also complicates the notion that there is a clear “classic” and “modern” division in music. My only quibble is that his discussions sometimes digress into history or harmonic details aren’t fleshed out enough to be useful for novice readers. His style is also a bit stuffy. But certainly reading Copland is motivation to curate a more purposeful Spotify playlist

Es un libro único en su género, ideal para compositores, músicos, ingenieros, técnicos y todos aquellos que se dedican a la música. Muchos audiófilos repasarán conceptos básicos, pero lograrán entender lo esencial. Tampoco es una guía completa de términos, no es un diccionario, pero sí contiene lo básico. En serio vale la pena.
This is interesting book. It was very dry and difficult to get through though. However, there were some great chapters that i loved. This book was written with the layman in mind e.g not a music major, but I feel as though in order to truly appreciate this book you must have a previous understanding of music theory.
