https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/150473.Salka_Valka
İzlanda da geçen, yoksulluğun vatansızlığı ile mücadele eden Salka Valka nın çok sade ama çok şiirsel büyüme, kadın olma hikayesi ... Güzel bir tadı var...
I find it astounding how easily and fully Laxness manages to get into the heads of young people in general, and here it's even the more astounding how convincingly he creates and expresses this powerful woman.
I've read reviews from a couple Icelandic women who half-jokingly wondered if Laxness might not be a woman in disguise...
Oldukça basit bir aşk hikayesi de denebilir, İzlanda’da geçen bir külkedisi hikayesi taklidi de. Kitabın ilk bölümü hem oldukça düşük edebi seviyede hem de sıkıcı. İkinci yarısı biraz daha toparlasa da geneli değiştiremiyor. Kitabın hacimli olması da bir şansızlık kitap bırakmayan sadık okur için, bırakılmıyor ama kaybedilen zamana da yazık. Nobel Edebiyat ödülünün neden verildiğini anlayamadığım yazarlardan birisini daha tanıdım.
Salka Valka shows a vivid picture of an Icelandic fishing village. The main character is a feisty individual named Salka that lives through the economic changes in the village. In the beginning, everything feeds through the local store and the entire economic system is controlled by one man. This is later challenged due in part to Salka. The story pulled me along and while I didn't always agree with Salka's thinking, I always admired her.
Salka Valka 2018'in ilk favorisi benim için. Gerçeklikle şiirselliğin birleştiği romanlar hep bambaşka bir güzellikte oluyor. Halldor Laxness bizi Özgür İnsanlar'daki gibi İzlanda'nın tarihine tanık ederken, bir kadının yaşamı, toplumu, çocukluğu, aşkı sorgulamasını büyük bir içtenlikle anlatıyor. Romanın ilk yarısıyla ikinci yarısı arasındaki bariz ton farkı olmasaydı 5 yıldız verecektim. Salka Valka yeni kahramanım.
World literature at it's best. Laxness paints a captivating picture of Iceland in this "political love story"! I would not have wanted to read anything else while driving along the westfjords. It is also quite astonishing that Halldor Laxness was only in his twenties when writing this. Who knew a twenty-something man could write so beautifully about the inner life of a girl... Kudos my man.
Beautiful book about Salka Valka, an independent woman and about the poor inhabitants of a small fishing village at the south coast of Iceland. All inhabtants are dependent of one man, who controls the economic and financial system. Salka refuses to become poor like the rest of the village and as a girl of 12 she wants to earn her own money.It is beautiful to read about the poverty of the inhabitants, the Icelandic landscape and of course about this stong independent woman
fatalist; what can easily be seen as defeatist is a complex understanding of human nature, its animal sexuality, its tendencies to take the path of least resistance, its intuition. beautiful, truthful.
Það er sannkölluð unun að lesa svo vel skrifaða bók. Það eina sem þreytir er hvað fólk er viðskotaillt og hryssingslegt í öllum samskiptum, en það var líklega ekki búið að finna upp kurteisina þegar þessi saga gerist.
Islandic poetic grey misery.
Tók mig langan tíma að klára þessa bok, náði ekki að heilla mig því miður. Ég hef kannski ekki nægilegan þroska til að detta all in í Laxness, vonandi les afi þetta ekki
Love it - even better than I remembered.
De hoofdpersoon is een sterk meisje Salka, die eigenlijk Salvör Valgerdur heet en dat alle veranderingen in het dorp overleeft.
Salka komt als klein meisje en buitenechtelijk kind met haar moeder in het dorp aan, omdat het geld op was, waarmee ze wilden vluchten naarReykjavik, waar het leven vast veel beter was.
Ook al wordt ze in het begin gepest, de mensen uit het dorp krijgen later respect voor haar.
Gelukkig heb ik wel een goede man gevonden!Vier sterren voor dit met humor vertelde verhaal over een vissersdorpje in IJsland, maar het had ook over welk ander dorp kunnen gaan.
Tämä hieno islantilaisklassikko valikoitui lukuun helmet -haasteen nobelvoittajaksi.
Koska kävin kesäkuussa Islannissa lomalla oli helppo kuvitella mielessään kalastajakylä vuonon rannalla ja sitä ympäröivät tunturit.
Tähän kylään Salka Valka saapuu äitinsä helmoissa pikkutyttönä, köyhänä irtolaisena.
Uudet aatteet saapuvat laivojen mukana myllertämään myös pientä islantilaista kalastajakylää ja Salka Valkan elämää.
Tämän aatteellisen taistelun keskeltä kirjasta huokuu suorastaan zenmäinen rauhallisuus.
Elämä jatkuu, linnut pesivät, säät ja vuodenajat kiertävät kulkuaan aatteista huolimatta.Ehkä paikka paikoin voimakas aatteellisuus vähän häiritsi ja meni jopa paasaamisen puolelle, siksi neljä tähteä viiden sijasta.
Toisaalta juuri siitä syystä teos paitsi heijastelee aikaansa, antaa myös ajateltavaa nykyajan maailmanmenosta.
If this book was a colour, it would be grey:so barren and sort of depressive on the surface, but having so much more, reflecting all other colours when the sun shines through the clouds, like a lonely light of hope tryingto wipe away the rain on one's cheeks.Enough of poor attempt at sounding poetic...
Salka Valka is a beautiful piece of work, and everyone even remotely interested in Iceland should give it a chance.
Also, women/girls should take Salka Valka as their rolemodel - rarely do I find such a strong female character in a novel.
Erfið bók fyrir mig að lesa enda var ég ung og margt í bókinni stakk mig.
En yndisleg engu að síður.
Bók um siðferði og styrk og fátækt og óréttlæti.
Í bókinni er setning sem hefur fylgt mér æ síðan "Hvað er það að hanga á krossi í einn dag fyrir mann sem á engin börn og vita þar að auki að maður deyr fyrir gott málefni?" og gerði endanlega út af við það að ég gæti tekið kristindóminn og karlrembu hans alvarlega.
Mamman hennar Sölku Völku er ein mín uppáhaldspersóna, svo breisk, svo varnarlaus.
Hefur verið mér samferða.
Seinni hluti bókarinnar er lengra frá mér.
De bedoeling was om in de IJslandse sfeer te komen, en dit lukt misschien wel een beetje. Maar hij schrijft in een zware stijl, langdradig en absoluut geen vakantielectuur. Een arm vissersdorp in IJsland, over een zwakke moeder die haar heil zoekt in de godsdienst en een sterke dochter, over de opkomst van het communisme in IJsland.
Ein besta bók sem ég hef lesið um ævina.Saga Sölku Völku vekur upp margskonar tilfinningar og oftar en ekki verður maður reiður þeim sem kringum hana standa.Svona sögu skrifa engvir nema snillingar :-)
Gef henni fimm, hún gaf mér svo mikið á sínum tíma en það er langt síðan ég las hana ... þarf að taka hana upp aftur. Stórkostleg bók!
Did not read the translation, obviously. Did read it while spending the summer in Oklahoma. Could not put it away.
fyrri hluti 3.5/5, seinni hluti 0.5*edit* ég var heimsk þegar ég las hana fyrst
Unread, sent out into the world with Bookcrossing. BCID: 609-9938829.
Being a fan of Laxness, I was very disappointed in this one. It was quite cliché.
Beautiful descriptions of the nature, the language was really amazing.
Sterke mensen in confrontatie met een veranderende maatschappij tegen de achtergrond van de ruwe IJslandse natuur, deze fantastische verteller vertaald door een ware meester, Marcel Otten.
Such a spectacular novel. It shows how one can stand alone despite all the hardships around him/ her..Salka is the strongest girl i've ever known..
Love and Icelandic politics actually do mixThe title of Bergman's film, "Through a Glass Darkly" comes to mind, not only because it, like this novel, is Scandinavian, but because I felt that I was reading SALKA VALKA through an encrusted window.
I may deliver myself of the comment that if Laxness had written in a Communist society, he never would have been allowed the shades of character, the wry humor, the outright political incorrectness (from a Marxist point of view) that we find in SALKA VALKA.
Laxness certainly knows how to portray well developed, multi layered characters, and he writes in a vivid language that has few equals among Nordic authors - you can feel the smell and hear the sounds of this small Icelandic fishing village, you can see the mountains and the brooks, you can feel the rain and the snow and the feeble Nordic sunshine. Its by no means a sparse language that he uses. However, this early work drags on a bit too long, and the second parts heavy focus on a socialist vs
Laxness certainly knows how to portray well developed, multi layered characters, and he writes in a vivid language that has few equals among Nordic authors - you can feel the smell and hear the sounds of this small Icelandic fishing village, you can see the mountains and the brooks, you can feel the rain and the snow and the feeble Nordic sunshine.
It´s by no means a sparse language that he uses.
However, this early work drags on a bit too long, and the second parts heavy focus on a socialist vs capitalist struggle over how the trade and the fishing industry should be organized (the novel takes place, and is written, fairly shortly after the Russian Revolution) feels a bit outdated for a modern reader.
Frábær persónusköpun sem endurspeglar jafnt þjóðlífið á þessum tíma og í dag. Það sem stendur helst eftir er hversu vijlugar persónurnar eru að réttlæta, fyrir sér og öðrum, lífið og hátterni þeirra sem stjórnuðu á Óseyri.
Tämä kirja otti aikansa. Kesti kauan ennen kuin pääsin tarinaan sisälle ja kun se loppui, tuntui loppu tulevan melkein liian pian. Mutta minä pidin tästä, ehkä siksi että kuvataan pienen kalastajakylän elämää.
