https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/663.For_the_New_Intellectual
"I swear - by my life and my love of it - that I will never live for the sake of another man, nor ask another man to live for mine." There is a quality in Ayn Rand's writing that I find supremely attractive: the unflinching, unapologetic assertion of the sanctity of the individual human mind and that any system of thought, government, or economy which seeks to destroy the individual man's reliance on his own rationality is evil.
At points I vehemently contend with her, at other points I unreservedly agree - but that's the point isn't it, to think for myself.
I regard this comment, like “folksy wisdom,” supra, to be entirely unintentionally self-reflexive in this volume.The text unravels completely when “it is not the case that Attila and the Witch Doctor cannot or do not think; they can and do--but thinking, to them, is not a means of perceiving reality, it is a means of justifying their escape from the necessity of rational perception.
A great explication of Ayn's philosophy, and the primary reason I think she's an idiot.
It does a good job of featuring excerpts from some of her other works and giving the general layout of her philosophy.
Having also read the communist manifesto, multiple Buddhist texts and other books that promote the greater good or some kind of selfless sacrifice, I find myself agreeing, in part, with each of them.
However, the dedication to independence, to caring for oneself above all others, to actually earning your keep I find to be the greatest endeavor in regards to the greater good.
One thing that I cannot deny, Rand writes with such a fiery passion, the likes of which, I have never encountered before.
I will read Atlas Shrugged in the future.

I usually don't review comic books but I'll make an exception for this book.
There is no grey in her world, and this book read like a comic book.
The real world is such that you can't have perfect liberty with perfect equality (moreover she doesn't care about anything but the individual so inequality would have no meaning for her).
She really does mean the things she said in her novels.
The individual is everything the group is nothing.
Greenspan, one of her accolades, said after the finically crisis became real, "I'm shocked, I can't believe it, the bankers self interest did not lead to protecting shareholders equity".
However, Objectivism differs from Strauss in many respects, including its premise of economic libertarianism and its understanding of philosophy as a dogmatic tool in the service of preservation rather than skeptical, rational inquiry as an end in itself.Ayn Rand (1905-1982) has been co-opted by the right wing of American politics.
She kicked the Austrian School theorist Murray Rothbard (1926-75) out of her inner circle (ironically called by the members themselves "the Collective") because he advocated anarchocapitalism as distinguished from her teaching that limited government was necessary.
Similarly, the logical conclusion of the nonaggression principle, Rothbard's anarchocapitalism, is, as Rand herself said, totally unrealistic.
I was somewhat surprised to see that this volume is more like anthology of Rand's fiction and not a collection of essays on Objectivism.
Despite this lack of original content (with the exception of the opening essay), I am pleased with the volume as it is composed of Rand's better moments with the lackluster ones minimized.
Reading this as a companion piece to the works excepted from here allows the reader to better understand the ideas Rand was trying to convey, which in turn allows one to compare how successful these books are at relaying said ideas.
I think the most egregious part of this book is how she butchers Kant's ideas. In the tradition of a typical "straw man argument," she offers a simplistic version of his ideas, and then knocks it down. I am not a Kant follower, but if you are going to attack his philosophy, at least try to get it right.The two stars are for spelling and grammar.
"Love is not self-sacrifice, but the most profound assertion of your own needs and values. It is for your own happiness that you need the person you love, and that is the greatest compliment, the greatest tribute you can pay to that person."
This was an inspiring book. Its all about creating value in the real world by being intellectually sound. The world changes in proportion to its greatest thinkers.
To this is added the laughable fact that the opening essay is merely that, and amounts to no more than 25% of the book -- the rest of which is a series of excerpts on Ayn Rand's novels.
Instead, I got a short, averagely written essay compiling thoughts Ayn Rand has been heard saying too often to be surprising, and a series of loose quotes from novels I already own.The joke, clearly, is on me.
This is a ~50 page title essay with several excerpts taken from We the Living, Fountainhead, and Atlas Shrugged.
The vast majority of the book consists of the title essay and John Galt's objectivism speech in Atlas Shrugged.
The title essay discusses the two categories of enemies to producers and men of thought: Attilas and Witch Doctors.
This is a good introduction to Rand's philosophy if you don't want to commit more time to reading The Fountainhead or Atlas Shrugged.
Also, it's worth it for the Rand junkie that wants to read the well-written title essay.
Айн Ранд дефинира новия интелектуалецhttp://www.knigolandia.info/2010/06/b...
Произведенията на Айн Ранд определено ме въведоха в едно различно измерение на светоусещане и отношение към живота.
Най-силно влияние ми оказаха, разбира се, романите й “Атлас изправи рамене” “Изворът” и “Ние, живите”, както и есетата от сборника “Капитализмът: непознатия идеал”.
“За новия интелектуалец” е синтез на тезите й от горните произведения.
Основната посока е дефинирането на досегашната човешка история като следствие от щенията на две фигури – Атила и Шамана, в чиито образи тя припознава военни/политически и религиозни лидери, които са налагали своята воля над обикновените хора или чрез сила, или чрез заблуди.
А обединението между двете неща според нея е най-опасното нещо.
Made up almost entirely of excerpts from her novels.
Who is this "New Intellectual"?
Only Ayn Rand and those who are willing to adhere to her philosophy.
As far as her philosophy - she actually has me agreeing with her most of the time, but to a point.
In order for her views to be plausible to the point of implementation, every child in America must be born with equal opportunity and privilege.
I confess to socialistic tendencies, but I think if Rand's utopia = everyman for himself, I think we should at least even the playing field.
Kind of a funhouse mirror of the intellectual giants who came up with the social contract notion of philosophy.
It's a bit like a petulant child, crying out that nobody understands anything but her.
Reason is good, sure, and I'll even accept that the Attila and Witch Doctor dynamic is an interesting thread to run through the eponymous essay.
I just think it's pretty horrendous to call out, in my mind, some of history's most interesting people -- like Hume, Marx, and JS Mill -- although, this being the fourth of her books I've gone through, I can't say I'm surprised.
Some of the best rhetoric I've ever read in defense of man's right to enjoy himself -- an extremely logical, extremely powerful, and easily digestible series of speeches on heroes, production, art, sex, and civilization. One of my new favorites of all time.
That was the lousiest book I have ever read on philosophy and trying to educate a beginner, a new intellectual on philosophy. I would choose Durant instead or Sophie's World by Gaarder which is actually a work of art.
I've read all of Ayn Rand's books. The sub title of my book, A rational spirituality for the 21st century' was inspired by her philosophy 'Objectivism'. Her intellectual view on life continues to inspire.
The best cannonfodder for debaters on the planet, I especially love her distaste for Kant. A part from these, a good spectrum of her devolopment of objectivism.
Haven't read it for over 20 years. This read is part of my resolution to read all Ayn Rand (probably in a pace of a book every other month).
She thinks she's an uperman-and does a poor job of proving it
Rand should have stuck to less disguised versions of fiction.
All my favorite speeches from the novels of Ayn Rand. A book that should be kept by everyone's computer.
Great collection of excerpts from Any Rand. I love her writing.
I think should read this book but once they have finished at least " The Fountainhead " and of course " Atlas Shrugged " it's a more profound book on Mrs. Rand philosophy.
Wonderful food for the mind, the thinking one that is...
lovely.
I think, therefore I am an "elitist." :)
This book is a great explanation of why philosophy will be forever shaping our society with or without our choice.
