https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48795.Password_to_Larkspur_Lane
Zanier than most! Here's my favorite line: "I'll wire the International Federation of American Homing Pigeon Fanciers and give them the number stamped on the bird's leg ring." Who knew?!!
I read the 1933 version, complete with roadsters, telegrams and girls wearing 'dainty lingerie.' Nancy's old - and new - car have a rumble seat and she's allowed to run around doing just about anything she wants, including getting into trouble again and again.
Of course her father, renowned lawyer Carson Drew, is ever in the background 'cautioning' Nancy to be careful, but Nancy is as Nancy does and Nancy, far ahead of what nice girls in 1933 should be doing, does whatever she wants.In this story a carrier pigeon is injured mid-air by a small plane.
Both ended up being related but I was not aware of it when I started reading.This story had more action than some of the previous stories and I found the 'chase' pretty exciting and appreciated Nancy using her common sense in a time of crisis.
Also, the language (this is one of those newer books so maybe that is why) was less archaic than in previous books.Since I never read Nancy Drew when I was much (much!) younger - I was a Scholastic Book Club girl - I am looking forward to reading the rest of the books in this series.
This is a timeless series that I hope newer generations will appreciate, too!
What is happening in Nancy's world? Once again, she rescues a rich old person who is being held captive by mean people. The mean people have their hideout done up in high-security fashion. As if they're afraid the elderly will vault out of their wheelchairs and over the electric barbed wire fence.Luckily for everyone, Nancy knows the direct number for the International Federation of Carrier Pigeon Fanciers.
A stark departure for typical Nancy Drew books. She is in much more peril, and it's more a kidnapping story than a mystery.
Nancy Drew E' un classico del giallo per ragazzi più che altro in America, da noi in Italia uscirono negli anni '70 in vari volumetti per la serie "giallo per ragazzi".Non regge però alla prova del tempo.Adulti, addirittura poliziotti che si mettono nelle mani di una quindicenne abbastanza supponenente (e antipaticissima).Forse tutto ciò risultava abbastanza plausibile negli anni '30 ma non oggi.La risoluzione dell'enigma è rocambolesca e sempre più improbabile.
Not exactly my favorite Nancy Drew book, but Stephanie Tromly mentioned this specific one in an interview. In this book, Nancy manages to solve a mystery AND get the top spot in a gardening contest. Yes. She is even more achingly perfect than usual. LOL. :)
This sparks Nancy's interest and sets about deciphering the bird's message which she believes to be an important clue.Why must the newer yellow hardcovers be politically incorrect?
Reading these descriptions in 2010 is such an eye-opener, when you think about now stepping on eggshells so as not to offend anyone and in the 30s they thought nothing of it.A section of the book was in the setting of an asylum, where Nancy enters to save a missing woman and goes espionage on the reader.
I took a break from re-reading Nancy Drew books for awhile, but I decided to start back up again.
These are just so much fun to read and they always make me smile - usually because I am laughing at them, but I'll take it.
What an overachiever.I always laugh at how outdated these books are, but this one really takes the cake.
A carrier pigeon falls into Nancy's yard.
A carrier pigeon.
Her old car (of which she's had a few already, and this is only book 10) is totally fine, but he still buys her a new one.Seriously, it must be nice to be Nancy Drew.
Fortunately there are no "colored" servants shuffling or speaking in dialect in this story and no one with sinister foreign accents.
Nancy tracks down a fake hospital where a band of crooks hold old ladies against their will and force them to sign over their fortunes.
You would think there would be a quicker and more cost-effective way to get money from seniors (Publisher’s Clearinghouse sweepstakes, anyone?), but then we wouldn’t get to have the sinister disbarred lawyer and the quack doctor and the carrier pigeons and an airplane landing field and Nancy stuck in a cistern.
I really loved Nancy Drew books as a kid - often read three at a time in second and third grade.
First, the clues are so fast-coming that my 4th grade daughter missed a few as clues because she was still processing the one on the previous page.
However, she likes how fast paced it is.Second, Nancy is a bit spoiled.
What Dr. Belle is doing is horrible, and my daughter and I had to have a tough talk about how people take advantage of the elderly.Despite all that, the way the two mysteries came together was great, and I loved reliving Nancy's determination and drive.
why doesn't GoodReads admit that there are two different novels titled _Password to Larkspur Lane_??
first of all, i read TWO DIFFERENT BOOKS for which i should receive APPROPRIATE CREDIT.
secondly, only one of these novels was genuinely interesting.
i may be a sucker for descriptions of clothes, but i can certainly tell when someone is just going through the motions.)when the original Nancy Drews were reissued, i really wanted to be a naysayer because i never read the old ones...but (i learned to) believe the hype!
the originals are SO MUCH MORE EXCITING!

This book is a thriller! I couldn't put the book down. The cliff-hangers left me in such suspense I just had to keep reading. Nancy is so determined to help others and is always willing to put them before herself. I would definitely recommend this book to someone that loves mystery and adventure.
3.5 starsAnother fun Nancy Drew. "And a grand surprise it is."The two mysteries fitting together didn't seem to work quite as well as the others I've read, but the story was fun and exciting!
"Hannah replied, 'Well, it takes all kinds of folks to make a world.
We're having hot biscuits and chick, one of your father's favorites.'""'You attract mystery like nectar in a flower attracts a bee, Nancy.'She grinned.
'In this case, I'll be the blossom and hope the villain will come my way!''I'll go with you tonight,' he agreed, 'and I'll do anything I can to help.'With a twinkle in her eyes Nancy said, 'They you can start clearing the table.
'You caught me that time, young lady.'""You are more important to me than all the mysterious old ladies in the world!""Bess gave a great sign.
This one was interesting - I felt that Nancy was insanely proactive and the police / friends were involved very little.
The story is fairly simple - she finds an injured passenger pigeon and reads the message it was a code and she knew it.
She was then invited to her friend Helen's family home where strange occurrences were going on.
She sorts out that the two mysteries are connected and bam right into the action.
This installment is fast paced and action packed.
I thoroughly enjoyed it.
I read it in one sitting and was truly engaged.
Update: Nancy Drew can add to her impressive resume that she is an expert horticulturist and pigeon caretaker. Seriously: It cracks me up how perfect she is. I guess that's why I idolized her as a child and get nostalgic when I read an old Nancy Drew book. Thanks for the memories, Nanc.
Our library didn't have this book available, so they had to borrow it from another library; meaning I was to wait for it's shipment here.
Yesterday I had a dream that I just couldn't wait any longer to get a hold of this book.
In my dream, I came across a bookstore/library and found a very old copy of this book, but it was two stories in one and I sat down and read this story in one sitting.
I stayed up all night, well from 0300 to 0600, reading this book; determined to finish it in one sitting.
Now I can't wait to read book eleven in the series!
All at once, Nancy's good friend, Helen, is seeing blue fire outside her window, and Nancy learns about a place where a man is stealing money from the elderly.While trying to find the culprit, Nancy also gets herself trapped in cellar with no windows or doors and is attacked by a very large dog.Nancy drew is a 18 year old girl who copiously finds herself in the heart of mysteries and has also learned that she is a rather good at sleuthing.
While she is finding clues and solving mysteries, she is also a loyal friend and daughter.Nancy and her friends and family live in River Heights (except for the occasional vacation) but in this ND novel, Nancy and her friend Helen are driving all around the state trying the find the mansion where the elderly people are being held hostage.
Intrepid sleuth Nancy Drew has two mysteries to solve.
As more unusual developments happen, Nancy realizes that the message is connected to the mysterious absence of an elderly woman named Mrs. Eldridge.
The second mystery centers around a frightening ring of blue fire showing up near the home of Nancy's friend, Helen Corning's grandparents after dark.
When Helen asks Nancy to find out what's causing the fire ring of fire, she agrees, of course.
Get thrown into a deep cistern?
Use the pieces of a ladder thrown in after you to claw your way up the wall.
Password to Larkspur Lane  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 10th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. A mysterious signal and a message alert Nancy to the plight of an elderly woman who is being held prisoner. While Nancy and her friends attempt to rescue the woman, they uncover a dangerous ring of swindlers. I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of my favorite things about summer was the frequent trips to our local library, which was less than a mile fr
A mysterious signal and a message alert Nancy to the plight of an elderly woman who is being held prisoner.
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
I give this book 5 out of 5 Stars. I dearly love this book and all of the Nancy Drew Mystery Books. This is Book #10 in the Nancy Drew Mystery Series. This Book was written in 1941 I think and this is one of the Original Books that Carolyn Keene wrote herself by herself which means that this book only has 20 Chapters in the book. I am Collecting all of Nancy Drew Mystery Books. I have the first 17 of them so far.
I think this was a thrilling book . I loved the ending and it was very mysterious book.I find this to be one of my favroite of the series .I am going to read the next ones after this one . I liked how the author used they other characters like the mysterious house keeper morgan in it .And how ned comes up in this and her father and dont forget the classic bess and george.
This should count as two books because I just read both the 1933 version and the 1960's rewrite. I like 1930's Nancy better. Aside from a few racial stereotypes, I don't see why they felt the need to change so much. I always liked George and Bess, but Helen made a better sidekick in this one. I know I read this when I was younger but I didn't remember anything about it except the flowers.
Fairly decent detective story, totally unbelievable for a teen-ager to be treated or to act this way, but still it makes for a fun, light read. It's also nostalgic for me, as I grew up with Trixie Beldon, Nancy Drew and Donna Parker.Another fun re-read. Feb. 2018
Another fun volume in this series.
This was a very good book in the Nancy Drew series. It was a little sad seeing how they treated the elderly.
As Nancy follows the clues with the help of her friend Helen Corning, it becomes clear that there is something sinister happening at a nearby nursing home which endangers not only many elderly patients, but also those, like Nancy, who want to uncover the truth.I have never been a die-hard Nancy Drew fan, but I have enjoyed various volumes from the original series and its many spin-offs over the years, including The Bungalow Mystery, which I reviewed six years ago.
I can't imagine a children's book about a mystery involving a nursing home being published today, which just makes me appreciate the charm of this vintage book that much more.
Though in the first two chapters, a lot of coincidences and conveniences happen to Nancy for her to have a mystery to solve.
Mr. Drew also buys Nancy a new car because her old car has a dent and she won't also be detected by the culprits.
But I enjoyed the blue fire subplot of the book and the first half of the book.
The second half is very exciting as Nancy sneaks into the sanatorium.
I enjoyed that very much and how great Nancy was.
I liked Effie, she was amusing and when she goes with Nancy to follow the pigeon, it was also amusing .
