https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79528.Dutchman_The_Slave
Review of The SlaveOnce more, I feel as if this play would be very powerful if I saw it performed live, but just reading it leaves a lot to be desired.
After reading both Dutchman & The Slave, I have to say that Amiri Baraka's work makes me feel like I'm being dropped into the middle of his writing and getting surrounded by chaos without knowing how the conflicts started.
I think I'd prefer to study Baraka's work as a part of a curriculum so that I can be sort of safeguarded through it.
Basically, at its core, Clay is representative of black assimilationists, and Lula could be any white liberal who claims to know how black people are and how they should be, and Amiri Baraka ultimately seems to have no patience for either one of them.If the Dutchman is full of hatred, the Slave takes that theme to a whole different level.
Walker is the leader of a violent radical black liberation movement whose ultimate goal seems to be to kill all white people.
Maybe you know Dutchman?
So The Slave is a science fiction play that takes place in the middle of the race war everyone in the 70s was afraid would happen.
It takes place in the future.
In another Amiri Baraka kills Hettie Jones and her academic husband in a domestic space in the future.
In Dutchman it’s Lula/Hettie who is drunk on the power of wielding definitions.
In The Slave, it is Walker/Baraka.
If you want to figure out what Baraka is saying, you’ve got to take the narrow road defined by these two.
Quintessential moment in the transition from the early to the mid-late Sixties, particularly the public emergence of Black Power. The play was written by Leroi Jones before he changed his name to Amiri Baraka and does quite a bit to explain why Baraka's writing is, at least for a while, much less complex and nuanced than Jones's.Incredibly powerful in performance. I'd put Dutchman somewhere, probably in the top half, of the ten most important American plays.
"Don't make the mistake, through some irresponsible surge of Christian charity, of talking too much about the advantages of Western rationalism, or the great intellectual legacy of the white man, or maybe they'll begin to listen.
And then, maybe one day, you'll find they actual do understand exactly what you are talking about, all the fantasy people.
And on that day, as sure as shit, when you really believe you can 'accept' them into your fold, as half-white trusties late of the subject peoples.
With no more blues...all of those ex-coons will be stand-up Western men, with eyes for clean hard useful lives, sober, pious and sane, and they'll murder you.
I've been looking for plays to pair with a study of Othello and I thought Baraka seemed a perfect fit.
Dutchman is a little too difficult for my 10th graders to navigate and hard to dramatize but I am definitely advocating for The Slave to be on our reading list for the fall.
For a shorter play it is really intense and there will be a lot for students to work through.
As well, the overt nod to Othello in the play is a great starting point for comparison.
While the play is violent and disturbing, the content is an excellent source for discussion about race and gender.
However, after reading Malcom X The Ballot or the Bullet, I could see that there was something I had not understood through my first reading: Dutchman is an allegory re-enacting African-American’s history in the United States of America.Through the relationship of Lula and Clay in her play, Amiri Baraka reveals the social and political relationship of White Americans and African-Americans in the context of the Black Power movements.
The misrepresentations and racial tensions are embodied by Lula and Clay’s conversation in the bus and their relationship.Moreover, Lula also represents the white political class who teases African-Americans with promises of equality, and with false hope of desegregation.
The ONLY reason I read this was for a class. And the only reason it received as much as 2 stars is because it was mildly interesting. This play is nothing but a poor description of racism and murder. Not only does it have a schizophrenic feel, but it left me (and I'm sure others as well) at a loss. What exactly happened and what was he point?
This play is a time capsule of the early sixties.
This play is told in symbols.
This play is a really interesting time capsule of a theatre style and a political environment.
It's not as shocking in 2018 and it's no as progressive and envelope pushing, but it's central themes remain important.It's treatment of the main female character can feel stilted and one dimensional at times.
She is a tool and a symbol, but so is the main male character, with whom we take our emotional journey.
Dutchman shows the tense relationship between white and black society.
White lady, Lula, is very prejudiced and thinks he knows who he is.
Although clay seems to fit in Lula's stereotypical "negro" image, he presents a different attitude in the second stage.
It is not certain that Clay was already a furious, full of hatred type man, or Lula forces him to burst into a crisis, but it is obvious that Amiri Baraka shows that racist hatred and prejudiced minds cause violence, which is depicted as an alternative way of raising black voice.
While these plays are explosive today, just howling off the page, it's impossible (if you weren't there) to imagine their effect at the time. While Baraka's writing in both plays is clearly didactic, it never comes off as preachy. Rather it's in the same historical theater tradition of pitting opposing views, opposing lives, on the stage and fighting the ideas, back and forth.
4.5/5* Really interesting plays! I liked The slave a lot more. It had a plot I understood and development of characters though the little pages of the play. The Dutchman was hard understand at times and was a visual play that needs to be seen and not read . Really great plays !
Great stuff but pretty elusive. The pay off is worth it though. You just don't know what's going on and most of what the play is about is what you can imagine and infer. I like that but it makes a difficult read. Otherwise grrrreat!
I meaaaaaan i’ve only read Dutchman, and we’re doing it for Camden Fringe so is gonna be awesome af, cuz daaang this play hits me every time
Read for my Race & Theatre course. Reminded me of the Michael Che bit about white women being able to get away with anything.
Baldwin discussed the difference between a white man asking for his liberties and rights in society versus a black man asking for his liberties and rights.
And the difference included a white man being praised whereas a black man is labeled tyrant and a nigger.
This is what this play reminded me of, specifically the scene in Act II were Clay switches places with Lula and he becomes the enemy at the hands of a white woman.
A white woman or person can get away with acting out and outrageous and never suffering for it at all.
not to be performed
She obviously knew nothing about Clay's life or how African American people live and was extremely ignorant in acting the way she did toward him at the party and making such gross racial slurs.
Vessels radical views especially on how African Americans should rise up and rebel against white society really speaks to Jones views that society cripples people and in vessels case very negatively and he is extremely outspoken about it and he does not seem to really care what the costs are.
The ending was sad and powerful as it opened to the prologue that preceded Act I, where Vessels is an old man with nothing left.
Vi er nærmere bestemt i den fase, hvor en ung mand med ambitioner er villig til at fornægte sin sorte identitet til fordel for at gøre sig selv til en slags slave, version 2.0, idet han annammer den hvide kulturs ydre fremtrædelsesform: jakkesæt & slips, kultiverede manerer og ditto sprog.
Hun kan læse Clay som en åben bog, hvilket forvirrer ham meget, idet han ikke er sig bevidst blot at være en prototype: den unge sorte, der som blødt ler (= ’clay’) velvilligt former sig selv efter de givne hvide normer.Hvor ler alluderer til Adam, så alluderer Lulas kontinuerlige spisen æbler til Eva og Syndefaldet.
No other work of art ever has had the effect on me that this play had.
It doesn't mean that what the play asserts is wrong or even misguided but it is a fixed point in an ever changing universe.
When this play came out, a black president was science fiction, if not an out and out impossibility.
In 2013 a black president, love him or hate him, is serving his second term.
The sexism in Baraka's work can not, should not and will not be ignored in the days, months and years to come.
In the closing scene, Lula—by now it's clear that she's an agent of the white power structure—proceeds to seek out her next victim.In The Slave, Baraka reincarnates Lula and Clay but reverses their roles.
Walker, unable to completely sever his ties with his past, finds himself in the home of his white ex-wife, Grace, and her new white husband, Brad Easley.
Brad and Grace's deaths seem to be inevitable, but the final excision of Walker's past comes with his children.
Baraka (formerly le roi jones) sharply addresses black-white relations in this country through a semi-surreal encounter between a sultry white woman and pseudo-intellectual, black poet on a hot new york subway ride.For being such a short play, Baraka touches on many race-related issues and chooses to express feelings of paranoia, distrust, guilt and alienation through emotional reactions of the characters instead of hyper-intellectualized examinations of race within our culture.
I appreciate this approach which seems to allow the play to be all that much more disturbing, uneasy and overall powerful.Baraka has gotten some flack over the past few years as being a polarizing, inflammatory figure amongst black american writers and intellectuals.
In both plays, we have portrayals of "blacks acting white" and "whites acting black" (or at least white liberals pretending to be down); each group ultimately is forced to confront the discourses that established "whiteness" and "blackness" in the first place, and in the end they rely heavily on those binaries instead of dissolving them.
There is overlap between biology/physiognomy and culture--the Being and the Performance of racial identity--but I think what I like best about these plays is the way Jones underscores the tension wherein, whether the discussion was biological or cultural (and it was never explicitly or singularly one or the other), a definitive choice had to be made because to truly entertain ambiguity was to upset the social and moral order.
Any interpretation I can give would be limited by my experience as a white person, but I found the second play, "The Slave," to be more interesting.
In the story, the instigator of this black liberation war visits his wife-ex white and her new white husband, in order to reclaim his children.
It highlights the inherent conflict between white liberal intellectuals and African Americans struggling under oppression.
What do you think was going through my mind everytime you were at some rally or meeting whose sole purpose was to bring about the destruction of white people?Walker: Oh, goddamn it, Grace, are you so stupid?
The ending of Dutchman is laughable - it reminds me of something a moderately gifted student in a high school creative writing course would come up with.Just to make clear where I'm coming from - some of Bakara's poems are among my favorite twentieth century poems.
At the same time, the anti-semitism that started showing up in his writing in the 1960s (and persisted until the end of his life) pains me.
His writing on jazz was influential to me, although even as a teenager I recognized that some it was going off the rails.Many people seem to think that these two plays are bold and courageous.
That whole Black Macho shit just perpetuated the oppression/invisibility of Black Women (see bell hooks, Michelle Wallace), and you cannot have liberation when you ignore half of your people.
Even then, I imagine all the performance adds is that Baraka's language and surrealism helps make the audience angry about racial tensions and, hence, in a frame of mind where they want to address race.
I don't need a play to get me to this point.There are far better books exploring the rage and anger underpinning racial consciousness (see Richard Wright, Ann Petry, Ralph Ellison, Fanon, etc).
Dutchman and Eldridge Cleaver's writings have got a lot in common, I'd say. Like a feverish nightmare in New York's underbelly.
Regarding Dutchman: at the time the play was explosive and wildly theatrical.
It was a scary time for cast, crew and audience since Philly was experiencing race riots, and we never knew how the audience would react to Jones's incendiary screech a la subway car violence.
What I remember best was the extraordinary performance given by Patricia Powers, and the forty-five second blackout I had to time in synch with Patricia's arm coming down in a signal for the other "white" passengers to begin their murderous torture of the one black man on board.
I also remember thinking that not all "white" people were monsters.
Readers must understand the role Amiri Baraka played in the Black Arts Movement in order to truly understand the racial stereotypes, religious discontent, social struggle and equality that African-Americans had to or have to endure.
Clay represents Adam, or formed from earth, forced to endure and suffer in order to achieve true happiness.
Lula's characteristics symbolize the Biblical Eve and the apples she's obsessed with symbolize Eve's Forbidden Fruit.
It's about Christianity and how the good God Fearing Christians were drowning themselves in sin by the form of hurtful stereotype and prejudice.
I was embarrassed by Lula, who is everything a woman should not aspire to be.
On one hand, I don't like the issue of the play at all.
I have a lot of black friends, so it was a little bit hard for me not to throw the book (well, the photocopies xD)The most humillating moment for Clay I think it's when Lula says to him: "You ain't no nigger, you're just a dirty white man".
Nevertheless, I also think and suppose one play is good when it rises up different emotions from the reader and doesn't let him/her without any opinion.
On the other hand, I applaud L.
With respect or we humillate them just because of their skin colour.
