https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8755776-city-of-lost-souls
Stick a fork in me, I'm done.This book couldn't make less sense if it were written in elvish, and I know that some people actually understand that - as in, they're about as hardcore about Tolkien as I am about French bread - but that's the whole point; this book is a clusterfuck unless you've spent an exorbitant number of hours poring over the characters and their histories and their family trees and the mythology of this world, and let's face it, that's impossible.
On Tumblr, Cassandra Clare seems committed to writing healthy relationships and frequently defends her plot and character decisions with good, solid blog posts that generally allow me to better understand the thinking behind the decisions she makes.There have been no such posts about Maia and Jordan.
Here's the deal.. this book was SLOW TO THE BONE, but the end result was worth the SLOWNESS. It just took forever and a day to get to the really interesting parts. I definitely liked this a lot more than City of Fallen Angels. I'll admit though after reading TID, nothing will compare to the beautifulness of that trilogy.
However, since this book was 534 freaking pages, I figured that I should talk about a few things.ClaceSo these two are one person.
In fact, I thought the evil Jace was the real one.
All those times they cut each other open with their bare hands made out, Clace was like, "Oh, that wasn't the real Jace.
Oh, I didn't want our first time to go like this because I'm not the real Jace." And this one time when they were finally about to have sex, but they didn't because they needed to whine and moan more:I'm jealous.Of who?Myself.
There was blood under her nails where she had clawed his back.Just terribly written and overdone.
All the subplots and characters and relationships and the fact that so much was going on made this book hard to break down.But, finally, I woke up this morning and it all made sense.
So, seeing as the book has been split into separate filing cabinets in my brain, I'm going to replicate that onto this review:The Good:I felt that Lost Souls was more compulsively readable than the other installments in the series.
(Yeah, can you tell I'm still totally pissed about that date?) (hide spoiler)]Those are the only two things I took extreme issue with in the book.
This time around, Jace is under the influence of Sebastian, the guy we all love to hate.
Simon seems to be patching up his romantic relationship, while Alec seems to be wreaking havoc in his.I don't want to give too much away, but I will say that I enjoyed the time with Jace and Clary.
Finally, they get to spend some time together...even if it isn't always the "real" Jace.
It may have taken five books, but things finally heat up between the two.Overall, this was another great book in the series.
Things have definitely picked up and I'm mentally preparing for the good vs.
They needed to be angry so they were, they needed to be sad so they were, every emotion was simply a vehicle to get them from point a to point b with little believable human interaction, motivation, or SENSE to guide them in between.Eventually, like with most of Clare's story lines this ended up riding the boring train on the let down track to nowhere and ended with Magnus making the *only good choice any of the characters in the whole book have made in over 536 pages*.
*sobs* May!?!? 2012?!? May 2012?!? *sobs some more* This cannot be! Really! It's like....too long! Too, too long! I NEEEEEEEEEEED THIS BOOK! How can Cassandra Clare do this to me--ahh, I mean us! I need this book, like yesterday!I don't know how I'm going to wait this long!*sobs, wails, bawls some more.....*
1.) City of Bones ★★★2.) City of Ashes ★★3.) City of Glass ★★★1.) Clockwork Angel ★★★4.) City of Fallen Angels ★2.) Clockwork Prince ★★★★  “But Heaven will not help you; you know that as well as I. That is why men summon demons and not angels, is it not?”  Yeah, this is easily my favorite book in The Mortal Instruments, so far. I think one of the biggest reasons I enjoyed City of Lost Souls so much was because it is told through so many of the side character’s point of view, some of which we hav
I know he messed up big in City of Fallen Angels, and I will call him out for it all day long, but he really had a pure and sweet redemption arc in this, that I think was handled very healthily and very realistically.
I don’t know, I just really didn’t like her in this book.
The only other thing that really bothered me was actually the main reason I one starred City of Fallen Angels; Maia and Jordan are a romance I will never get behind.
I want it so badly, right now!If - and it's not very likely to happen, but IF - the world ends in 2012, and this one has not come out, then I'll be so pissed that even the zombies, or demons, or Mother Nature, whatever, will shit their pants in fear of me.
Either it's zombies - which I probably fear the most, since I'm shit-scared of zombies - or it's demons.
Yes, it probably sounds very weird that I'm sickly scared of zombies, but they'd still shit their pants if they decided to end the world before I got to read 'City of Lost Souls'.
The clave wants to summon either of them, but killing Sebastian means, Jace will die, and Clary can’t let that happen.
His silvery hair may be turned back into black after being saved and stopped using demon powder.Brother Zachariah has no children But Jem has decedents cause we will be seeing Emma Carstairs in The Dark Artifacts or may be Emma came from other Carstairs line, not Jem. Any that's not Will for sure cause Jace is Will's decendent, not any other Herondale's.“I know about parabatai,” said Magnus, an angry, dark undercurrent to his voice.
4 Two sides of Jace *Spoilers*This one was much better than the last one. Lots of action. Jace and Clary still can't catch a break. Really the span of the whole series they are apart pining for each other with like a few weeks here and there that they can actually be together. Teenage angst at it's highest. I really wish she would have let them be together a little more in this series. I understand it's a ya series but if you want them to be this awesome powerfully connected couple that you just
Jace and Clary still can't catch a break.
I understand it's a ya series but if you want them to be this awesome powerfully connected couple that you just can't forget then they actually have to be a couple for a little bit of time.
She has been pretty wimpy standing around while everyone fights and gets hurt in the last 4 books.
Loved Simon even more in this book.
I was so glad Simon's sister didn't turn her back on him like his mother.
I'm really liking Brother Zachariah, but I wonder why he seems to want to help Jace so much.
FUCK. GOD DAMN AMAZING TRAILER! I can't, I just can't breathe right now. O.O <3http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S_FUJU... "And I am going to burn down the world." *Crying* My Man, my man. :'DScrolling down as usual on facebook. Lalala, nothing interesting. *Cover passes* lalal -Dramatic pause- "WTH? Did I jus-" *Scrolls up!*"OMG OMG OMG" The cover! xD <3 (LOL! I just love the man in the pic)Ok. Maybe, just maybe I was expecting Magnus or Alec... but this rocks too! GOD! They look so awesome! <3Now please kindly give me the book before I go insane. Need to OWN! O_O
If I could have won the lottery for every time I wanted to smack people in this book, I would have an infinite amount of money right now.
Just kidding :-D I love all of the characters even though I want to smack them at times.
And can people and things just quit coming after Jace!
Clary's good ole brother Sebastian is back and buddies with Jace.
It's so not a good thing.
Clary gets sucked into their world and all kinds of crazy stuff is going down with them.
They are both good people and werewolves.
Loved it!
Loved it!
4,5 Sterne ⭐ Na wenn das mal keine positive Überraschung war 😱Für mich das beste Buch der Reihe, was vor allem daran liegt, dass Clary hier mal nicht als hirnamputierte Hohlfrucht auftritt. Ich konnte ihre Handlungen diesmal größtenteils wirklich nachvollziehen.Auch unseren "neuen" Bösewicht/Gegenspieler mag ich lieber als Valentin aus den früheren Bänden. 👌🏻Es gab auch wieder viele tolle Malec-Momente obwohl ich ja vor allem Magnus und seinen Humor sehr in Cassie's Büchern zu schätzen weiß.Soga
4,5 Sterne ⭐️ Na wenn das mal keine positive Überraschung war 😱Für mich das beste Buch der Reihe, was vor allem daran liegt, dass Clary hier mal nicht als hirnamputierte Hohlfrucht auftritt.
👌🏻Es gab auch wieder viele tolle Malec-Momente obwohl ich ja vor allem Magnus und seinen Humor sehr in Cassie's Büchern zu schätzen weiß.Sogar an Handlung hat es m.E. hier mal nicht gemangelt was auch an den vielen POVs liegt.
Ich bin mittlerweile auch echt ein Fan von Jordan und Maia und naja Jocelyn hasse ich auch nach Band 5 noch 🤷🏼‍♀️Und im Epilog sind ja noch so manch erschreckende Sachen passiert, dass ich wirklich von mir behaupten kann, dass ich mich auf das große Finale freue 😅
Cassandra Clare did a wonderful job once again!City of Lost Souls, the fifth book of The Mortal Instruments series, picks up where City of Fallen Angels left off.
This sequel is actually a much better response compared to the City of Fallen Angels because all the events here were pretty much powerful and more remarkable.I love how it started off as a bang!, eventually giving a slow-burn feels when the Shadowhunters were trying to figure out how they can come up with a solution to the dilemma, and ending up with a great and action-packed resolve.
It’s not just the events that happened in the book, but the world itself feels much bleaker and there’s a slow-building sense of dread, which makes sense, as our little team begins to prepare themselves for a war unlike anything they’ve seen so far.
I know it’s hard to be in Alec’s position, but Magnus is forevermore my sweet little bisexual warlock baby, and I wanted to climb into the book and slap the shit out of Alec a few times.
Either way, I think this was the most time we’ve gotten to spend with Magnus in any book in the series so far, and I was here for it, okay?
TOP 5 SNARKIEST MOMENTS IN City of Lost Souls.In my review of City of Fallen Angels (TMI #4), I listed The Top 5 Angsty Issues.
Listed below, are the Top 5 Snarkiest Moments in City of Lost Souls (TMI #5), from least to most snarktastic.
What’s The Difference Between Sane & Insane?According to Sebastian: "Two weeks."Jace: “Clary has a right to know our plans.
‘We like sandalwood.’ ‘We adore the symphony.’ ‘We hope you enjoy our Christmas present’—which, if you ask me, is just a cheap way of avoiding having to buy two gifts.”WE SHOULD!BOTTOM LINE: City of Lost Souls is so chock-full-o-snark, this list could have been a hell of a lot longer.
The final chapters are great, but the middle part of the book...
Basically the reason why this is a 4/5 and not less is because of the ending and the chapters involving Simon.
It's one of those cases when, in a book, side characters actually have a more interesting story than the main ones (Simon, Alec).That being said, City of Fallen Angels reminded me of City of Glass (and that is good considering CoG is still far and away the best in the series), even though it could have been cut in half and not lose anything of importance.
I don't think I can even write a review for this just yet. Oh my God. SO MANY FUCKING FEELS, I CAN'T EVEN.PAGE 510-11. KILL. ME.Lord, help me get through this 2-year wait for Heavenly Fire.
No matter how much my loathing for City of Fallen Angels made me disgusted with Clare's decision to write a second trilogy, I have to finish these books.
Because I hope things are going to pick up and make the expansion of the series worth it, even if I don't really believe it's going to happen.With that cynicism weighing down on me, I went to Walmart (because CostCo failed me) and bought City of Lost Souls.
City of Lost Souls felt like the fourth Pirates of the Caribbean movie; yes, there's a story, and no, it's not bad, but it just isn't as fun as it once was.
Wow I finished this a while ago! Guess I forgot to share my thoughts...Um... It was good? LolNot my favorite of the series, but I've heard CoHF is amazing, so I'm pumped to read that soon! :D
NO PUEDO MÁS. QUIERO LEER EL SEXTOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO.
“I never cared,” he said. “I wanted you anyway. I always wanted you.”  This book is a cliché. CoLS is one of the few books I know what will happen next. Jace was turned into a bad guy by Sebastian, and he convinces Clary to join him and her evil brother. I found out that this kind of story used to happen before, it's not a new thing to set our MCs apart with this bullshit to prove their true love. However, I still love CC's writing, it's intriguing and beautiful as always. “You may have the wor
CoLS is one of the few books I know what will happen next.
I found out that this kind of story used to happen before, it's not a new thing to set our MCs apart with this bullshit to prove their true love.
Although this book struggles less than CoFA, it didn't seem to hold my interest the whole time.
“I know about parabatai,” said Magnus, an angry, dark undercurrent to his voice.
“I’ve known parabatai so close they were almost the same person; do you know what happens, when one of them dies, to the one that’s left —?” 
For all his talk of loving me, for all his desire for a right-hand man, he knows that I have doubts.
When he demanded I leave Amatis, the woman I love, and marry Celine, a girl I did not know, I did as he asked, to my everlasting shame.I cannot imagine what you might be thinking now, knowing that the girl I speak of was your mother.
It is the nature of parents to see their own image in their children, and it was myself I hated, not you.For there is only one thing I want from you, my son — one thing from you, and of you.
I managed to stop complaining about this book long enough to finally finish it. Although I do believe that City of Lost Souls was better than its predecessor, it wasn't that much better. I'm still disappointed in the direction that this series decided to go and I still stand by what I said before about the last three books being completely  UNNECESSARY. This series was called  THE MORTAL INSTRUMENTS  for a reason. Three instruments for each of the three books for the first half of the series. Ci
But now, I could barely stand the characters, specifically Clary and Jace.
And since she's the central character of this whole series, you can see how this was problematic.My hatred for Clary reached its highest point in this book.
If you really want to know how much my perception of these characters did a complete 180, you should know that I absolutely loved Clary and Jace in the beginning.
After City of Fallen Angels, I lost all interest and respect for these two characters.Another thing that annoyed me about this book was Maia and Jordan.
Ok guys, the OMG's and updates had to go because the humongous length of this review. You don't have to read it all if you don't want to, lol. ;DThe official blurb:“The demon Lilith has been destroyed and Jace has been freed from her captivity. But when the Shadowhunters arrive to rescue him, they find only blood and broken glass. Not only is the boy Clary loves missing–but so is the boy she hates, Sebastian, the son of her father Valentine: a son determined to succeed where their father failed
There are no words in this world to describe my love for this book; it’s too great for even a shadowhunter to comprehend, well, maybe Jace and Clary, god knows the drastic of actions they took to save their love).
Team members include: the lovely yet dangerous shadowhunter Isabelle, the silent yet internally-very-emotional shadowhunter Alec, the seemingly disturbed yet adorkable vampire Simon, the charming and always party-hard-fun high warlock Magnus, the hell-of-a-bad-ass mother shadowhunter Jocelyn, always kind and caring werewolf Luke, the depressed and hot ex-boyfriend werewolf Jordan, the secondary-love-interest tough-knuckles chick werewolf Maia, and finally, I guess the “silent and strong yet creepy” (another inside joke ;D) silent brothers!!
I would totally give this book more stars if they were the only characters.
And I kept waiting for the book to get some kind of conflict/plot beyond "Jace is acting funny."But Team Good was fun and the writing has improved since the first book!
I remember deciding at the start of this one that it was my favorite book in the series so far, but then the last half was so mind-numbingly dull that I completely forgot what I liked & why.
So I'll just say this was good, but the third book is probably my favorite overall since I can still remember it.
Or because the fact that your parents' marriage is a total desaster emotionally traumatized you so that you now are scared of actually commiting yourself to someone so that you now try to reduce me to my being a vampire because you're frightened by your feelings for me?Isabelle: Um. No, this is totally a healthy thing to do.Simon: Okay, now lets summon that Angel.Raziel: Pfft, as I would help you measly mortals- On second thought, give me your mark and I'll give you a Deus ex Machina sword.Simon: You mean the mark that I got only in the third book and that protected me for all of like 1 week in the fourth?
hi i've obviously read this book a million times but i'm just adding it to my "read" for this year
3/5The reason to make me give this book 3 stars just for Magnus and Alec's , Simon and Isabelle and the rest just was bullshit
