https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112810.Non_Violent_Resistance
This book changed how I thought about everything. I read one section, closed the book, and thought about it for two or three days before continuing on. Ganghi's perspectives on the importance of non-violence, and it's ultimate effect on India (and perhaps the entire world) are worth pondering. This book inspired me to read more about Gandhi and his philosophies, shifting me from a passive believer in non-violence to ardently seeking to understand the principles.
Eterna è infatti la durata nella memoria degli uomini di coloro che sono stati così tanto grandi da scegliere di essere forti nel bene anzichè nel male, da stare dalla parte giusta per convinzione e non per debolezza.Il grande dono che Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi ci ha fatto, dalla maggior parte di coloro che parlano di lui non è stato compreso: non è infatti la non-violenza, di cui per un motivo o per l'altro è sempre stato pieno il mondo, ma l'essere riuscito per primo a trasformare l'atteggiamento non violento in un simbolo di forza e conseguentemente in uno strumento di concreta azione politica: senza Gandhi non avrebbero senso figure come Mandela o Martin Luther King e l'umanità sarebbe senz'altro peggiore di come è adesso.Questa antologia di scritti, articoli, lettere aperte ci mostra il pensiero del rivoluzionario indiano in tutta la sua complessità: il nocciolo della politica di gandhi NON è la non-violenza (o almeno non nel suo insieme), ma ciò che corrisponde alla parola-simbolo SATYAGRAHA, che è la via della verità; per Gandhi infatti Verità, non violenza e fede sono tre facce della stessa medaglia, e nessuna di esse può esistere senza le altre due.
One of the most important books I've read in my life. I'm a better person for having read it and having begun to practice it in small ways.
It requires strength, and there is nothing automatic or intuitive about the resoluteness required for using non-violent methods in political struggle and the quest for Truth."In the secret of my heart I am in perpetual quarrel with God that He should allow such things [as the war] to go on.
My non-violence seems almost impotent.
But the answer comes at the end of the daily quarrel that neither God nor non-violence is impotent.
Your soldiers are doing the same work of destruction as the Germans.
I want you to fight Nazism without arms or ...
with non-violent arms.
Now with everything that is happening ; the Arab Spring, the Wall Street Occupation, the World Revolution in general, I find reading Gandhi's Satyagraha extremely crucial for the peoples to make sure that everything goes for the betterment of humanity.
What is really amazing about this book, and I consider it a political one, is that it's mainly dedicated for spirituality!
The Satyagraha is very simple in theory, Gandhi is right in saying that you can teach it to a 6 year-old child!
Yesterday I was bullied by some twitter follower because I said I liked the book.
One more thing; the book is kinda repetitive..
Mohandes Gandhi, a men who choose non-violent against unarmed, was died in 1948.
Everyone remember him as an activist non-war.
No one like attack by another, no one want kill another even with the gun.As long as the resistance he did, Gandhi never distinguish peoples's religion, difference skin, and their nation.
We know that Gandhi was the only one man who againts invaders with fasting.
He will accept the food to his mouth after the war is end.
Because of it, his physical so weak before the nutrition of the food came in."An eye for an eye only ends up making the whole world blind."– Mahatma Gandhi
This is an amazing book. In it Gandhi presents a logical arguement for the practicality of non-violent warfare. Waging war using civility, strikes, civil disobediance. Gandhi aims to make citizens grasp the power that they already have. The power to shut down an ecomony in one day.The power to take the higher ground, to highlight the injustice of their enemy without humiliating them, thus allowing the enemy ego room to shift their position, to change their hearts and minds. Gandhi loved his enemies, truly.
Охренительный, уникальный какой-то человек. Хотя к жене относился хреново. Любил - но по-своему как-то.Еще интересно было почитать про то, что вегетерианство, которое распространилось по Европе - основано на учении какого-то индуиского еретика и дурачка (сам Ганди был веганом по хардкору)"Человек и его поступок - вещи разные. В то время, как хороший поступок заслуживает одобрения, а дурной - осуждения, человек, независимо от того, хороший или дурной поступок он совершил, всегда достоин либо уважения, либо сострадания, спотря по обстоятельствам."
Ho dato a questo libro tre stelline non per le parole di Gandhi ovviamente ma per il saggio iniziale che stava per farmi desistere dal leggere fino in fondo e per il modo in cui sono stati raggruppati i vari testi!Tutto questo ha reso la lettura noiosa e pesante!
I am not neccesarily saying that my mind is on the same plain as that of Mohandas Gandhis, but when reading certain passages from this book I felt as though I was reading my own words. To feel as though an individual like Gandhi agrees with me regarding princıples ,on which I previously felt alone, is comforting. That being saıd, I am hard pressed to invision a person who would not find great insight, or at least food for thought (and lots of it), in this text. Of course, we generally acknowledg
I am not neccesarily saying that my mind is on the same plain as that of Mohandas Gandhi´s, but when reading certain passages from this book I felt as though I was reading my own words.
As well as arguments that most would find to be sound and reasonable, this work offers to us the more spiritual and faith driven thoughts of Gandhi that cannot really be argued for in a way that we would call logical (Ex: faith in God and fasting as an essential element to true prayer or enlightenment).
This book changed my thought, I was read it trough the green movement uprising in Iran on June-September 2009, This book inspired me to do a non-violent resistance because it is opposite of weakness nad Defiance combined with non-retaliatory acceptance of repression from one's opponents.it requires strength, intuitive, resoluteness required for using non-violent methods in political struggle and the quest for Truth.non-violence resistance requires restraint on the associates.
It also needs an adversary that is proficient of reform.
If you are interested in the life of Mahatma Gandhiji, or in the process of non-violent resistance, this book will be interesting to you.“The first principle of non-violent action is that of non-cooperation with everything humiliating.” ― Mahatma Gandhi, Gandhi On Non-Violence
I just finished reading The Essential Gandhi, so my rating is affected by a comparison with that book which, I think, is far better.The selections in this collection of writings is just as meaningful and important, but it's more confusing, because it incorporates writings from people other than Gandhi and it was not always very clear whose words I was reading.
The writings also seemed a bit disjointed and in no particular order.
Since Gandhi describes Satyagraha as a progressively more refined experiment, it would probably make more sense to have given his writings in chronological order, so that progression is more apparent.
Un court condensé de plusieurs textes écrit par Gandhi, son autobiographie notamment. Il y explique ses différentes luttes: contre son propre corps et ses désirs (Brahmacharya, régime alimentaire strict...) mais aussi contre la violence et la folie des hommes (apartheid et système des castes...), notamment en Afrique du Sud où s'est forgé son principe de la lutte non-violente.Très utile pour un premier aperçu de la manière de pensée et de la vie de Gandhi. (Je vous conseille également le film d'Attenborough si vous voulez en savoir plus)
Si je ne mets que deux étoiles à ce livre, ce n'est pas à cause des propos de Gandhi, mais pour la façon dont est présentée cette édition. Ce morcellement de texte, sans réel développement des idées, donne l'impression de lire un dictionnaire de citation, ce qui rend la lecture lourde et ennuyeuse. Au finale ce livre ravira surement ceux qui veulent se donner bonne conscience en "lisant Gandhi", sans avoir à faire le moindre effort pour plonger réellement dans la pensée de cet homme...Pour ma part je trouve que c'est une livre très décevant!
I found this book very interesting and thought-provoking. As a collection of various writing and speech, it is often disjointed, and would have benefited from some additional context from the editors (an updated edition could greatly assist for the modern reader), but this is a very high four star rating from me - if you want to understand Satyagraha, this book explores the topic from many facets, and is a fascinating read.
This is the third time I'm using this book for class. Anyone interested in Gandhi's philosophy of Satyagraha and the application of his philosophy needs to read this book. This is not a book to skim, but one to read with full attention. Many chapters are short, so one chapter a day as a meditation-style reading would be doable.
Una lectura refrescante y retadora. Gandhi hablaba de un socialismo enfocado en el ser humano, en la convivencia y la justicia. Más que eso, hablaba de valores que no se confunden con las etiquetas, que principios que no se doblan con la militancia o la coyuntura. Increíblemente actual.
Ce livre est en fait un résumé d'autres oeuvres majeures sur la vie de Gandhi. Condensé et bien fait, il présente la philosophie et les idées de ce grand homme. Un livre qui fait beaucoup réfléchir et qui faut vraiment la peine d'être lu. Un incontournable!!
Satyagraha by GandhiBad ass book that led me up a tree.
nice book for present world, I enjoyed reading it
Collage de plusieurs textes de Gandhi qui effleure la philosophie de ce grand homme et le parcours trop sommaire de sa vie. Aussi bien lire "Cette nuit la liberté" de Lapierre-Collins. Vide et plat.
I read it in high school and of course it blew my mind.
New York Public Library listed this book as one of the best books on colonialism and its aftermath of the century.
Still in the first few chapters of this book...I got side tracked by Harry Potter...ooooo
Saggio importante per chiunque voglia un raffronto su come vivere la propria vita
Recensione sul mio blog:http://sekhemty.wordpress.com/2010/11...
Si ce n'était pas pour le mauvais ordre, parfois, des quotations ça aurait été un 5
An interresting book (y)
Difficile de séparer l'auteur du texte. La plupart des critiques ici vont dans le sens d'une idolâtrie d'une personnage. On ne discute donc pas tellement texte et on passe à côté. Le lieu parfait pour dénoncer ce que je perçois comme une anti-démarche critique chez certains lecteurs.
J'ai lu sur la vie de Gandhi et c'était mieux. Pas beaucoup aimé
