https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50730.Christmas_Pudding
He is humiliated and determined to write a biography of a titled woman who achieved nothing much in life at all except writing bad poetry.The whole point of the book to me is to show that the mores of the day amongst these 'upper' class people are that it is all right to be a con artist, ok to screw around, lying isn't a problem and that no one works for a living.
The book ends having made the point that love is a stupid reason to get married, but if you must, screwing around is fun.
Diana, for some reason, had not absorbed the lessons of aristocrat marriage and thought she was married to a man who loved her and would be faithful.
So much fun, a true guilty pleasure. I particularly recommend this if you are home in bed with a cold wearing a bed jacket and sipping tea from a Limoges cup.
Christmas Pudding (1932) follows on from Nancy Mitford's first novel Highland Fling (1931).
I enjoyed the continuation, however Christmas Pudding works perfectly well as a stand-alone novel.
In Christmas Pudding, which, despite the title, contains only a limited amount of Christmassy content, the usual array of colourful aristocratic characters converge in various settings.
As in Highland Fling, the book is best at bringing her various privileged characters vividly to life.
The story is very much told from the centre of Nancy Mitford's world.
Christmas Pudding is a better book that Highland Fling, and both are very enjoyable.
So, in summary, its another enjoyable and humorous early novel from Nancy Mitford.3/5
****.This was a social comedy written by Ms. Mitford that featured sixteen characters in search of an author.
All of them are thrown together at a Christmas party (pudding) at a country house, and get to act out their personalities.
Ms. Mitford has done an excellent job of showing the shallowness of English society and the veneers worn by the characters – which seems to rub off pretty quickly.
The real worth of a person is all related to his or her wealth or rank in society.
I think you will receive a real education as the party progresses.
So I read the chapter about Christmas day on that day, and the day after...well, you get the picture.
It was sort of 3D reading, if there is such a thing.
Silly me.Anyway, funny book.
I believe that is what generally starts the trouble.""It's a funny thing, that people are always quite willing to admit it if they've no talent for drawing or music, whereas everyone imagines that they themselves are capable of true love, which is a talent like any other, only far more rare."I respect a person who can throw statements like that into the mix.
Rather like Wodehouse without the constant self-conscious attempts to be witty and amusing, this is the story of the course of true love--or at least the quest for material and emotional security, which in upper class 1930s England, apparently amounted to the same thing.
Unhappy Philadelphia Bobbin reminded me strongly of Jessica Mitford's description of her sister, unhappy Unity Valkyrie; unfortunately Unity fell in love with a concept, not a person.
Her brother Bobby talks a bit too much like a gushing girl to pull off the smart aleck OE boy he is meant to be.
I enjoyed this much more than I did Mitford's first novel.
Et bien en voila une jolie decouverte!!!Direction 'je vais lire tous ces bouquins'land. Des bisouilles à toi.
Cela faisait un moment que je voulais apprivoiser la plume de Nancy Mitford qui fait partie des auteurs classiques britanniques que je me devais de découvrir, et le moins que l’on puisse dire, c’est qu’elle n’y va pas avec le dos de la cuillère !
C’est piquant, cynique, elle a un regard très acéré sur ses contemporains !
Ça n’a pas été le coup de cœur que j’imaginais et j’ai mis du temps a le lire mais lecture très sympathique dans une délicieuse ambiance de Noël un peu kitch comme j’aime !
Accompagné d’une bonne tasse de thé, il ravira tous les amateurs d’humour anglais !
It satirises The Country House Novel with a gathering of disparate souls in Gloucestershire, where Lady Bobbin is in high dudgeon because The Hunt has been called off owing to an outbreak of foot and mouth disease, and Amabelle Fortescue has taken a large mock Tudor house called Mulberrie Farm to amuse herself and her smart city friends.Amabelle has ‘a past’ which is tactfully not named:Amabelle Fortescue, unlike so many members of her late profession, was an intelligent, a cultured and a thoroughly nice woman.
Christmas Pudding marque ma découverte de l'oeuvre de Nancy Mitford. Ce court roman offre un beau moment de détente auprès de ces personnages tous plus drôles les uns que les autres. Le ton est mordant et c'est un vrai plaisir de lecture !
Amabelle presides over the machinations of her upper class friends throughout Christmas Pudding with a combination of pithy observations, sage advice and impish intrigues.It's a good natured novel, populated with larger than life characters who fall in and out of love with each other and with their own grand ideas on every other page.
She was far less prolific than him and didn't produce any characters as iconic as Jeeves and Wooster, though I'd put Christmas Pudding alongside anything I've read by Wodehouse.Perhaps unfairly, Nancy Mitford is better known for being the eldest of the notorious Mitford sisters who are collectively known for their snobbery and fascism.
This is sort of like an absurd, hilariously funny Jane Austen, set between the World Wars among England's Bright Young Things.
Poor Paul Fotheringay has poured his heart and soul into a tragic novel--at its end his despondent hero and heroine fail even in their suicide attempt--but though the public adores his book they universally think it's the funniest thing they've ever read.
Being cruelly misunderstood by his audience and his status-seeking, head-turningly beautiful fiancee is making him wretched, but Paul revives when he comes up with a new project, the biography of a little known nineteenth century poet.
Took me a while to get into, but ended up being pretty all right. Nothing extraordinary though.
On est comme au théâtre et d'ailleurs ce livre pourrait être une pièce en faisant quelques coupes...+ la campagne anglaise !
Ok, ce n'est pas du Thomas Hardy, mais on s'y retrouve quand même.
J'ai moins aimé:- Les personnages étant plus ou moins stéréotypés, ils restent des personnages en 2D, sympathique à observer au travers du trou dans la serrure, mais pas forcément intéressant.
- On passe un peu vite sur noël, j'aurais aimé que ça soit l'élément central du roman.En bref, une histoire sympathique et marrante pour un week-end de décembre.
Rien d'exceptionnel mais une comédie de moeurs pour la période des fêtes.
Christmas Pudding est un livre caustique, pourvu de l'humour so british qui me fait fondre. Un ouvrage que j'ai trouvé d'une grande modernité dans l'écriture et les réflexions apportées sur le monde des aristocrates et des indolents. Cela m'a donné bien envie de découvrir les autres romans de Nancy Mitford !
I really enjoyed this charming and amusing Christmas-set novella. Not much of a plot, but great characters & hilarious dialogue - I laughed aloud while reading more than once. (I wish I could've read more of Lady Maria's diaries, too.)
Delightful little parody of upper class British society, where innocence ends and love is dead. Funny, sarcastic, brilliant read.
Concerning the vicissitudes of Paul Fotheringay (demonstrably no relation to Bertie Wooster's chum Barmy Fotheringay-Phipps, member in good standing of the Drones Club) who is suffering under the twin burdens of having written a "serious" novel that has been widely hailed as a work of comic genius, and a proclivity for falling passionately in love with entirely unsuitable young ladies.
A book of true comic genius would be a combined Complete Poems and Journals of Lady Maria Bobbin; would anybody care to write it?
I have never before had an experience quite like the one I had while reading (or should I say attempting to read) this book.
Her guests, writer Paul Fotheringay and Walter and Sally Monteath, meet and mingle with the locals at the Compton Bobbin hunt, with hilarious results."For reasons I don't even remotely understand, I simply could not keep my mind on this book.
If I had read it in Braille though, I probably would have loved it simply because I would have read at my own pace and gone back over what I missed when my mind wandered.
Someone bought me this lovely edition of Nancy Mitford’s Christmas Pudding from Capuchin Classics, and I have to confess I can’t remember who it was, I purposely saved it to read over Christmas, and I’m so glad that I did.
It was a perfect, light accompaniment to Christmas, and one I shall be keeping to read again one day.While Christmas Pudding certainly doesn’t show Nancy Mitford at the height of her deliciously, sharp brilliance, there is still a delightful Mitfordian absurdity about this, her second novel, which makes it utterly readable.Full review: https://heavenali.wordpress.com/2014/...
Christmas Pudding met en scène un marivaudage, entre Bright Young Things et aristocrates pompeux, dans les années 30.
Le récit a pour cadre Londres ainsi que la demeure de Compton Bobbin, à la campagne.
L'un des héros, le jeune Paul Fotheringay, vaut son pesant d'or.
Ecrivain sans le sou, séducteur à ses heures, idéaliste mais faible, il est l'auteur d'un drame sentimental qui a connu un très grand succès public et critique.
Le hic, c'est que son livre a été élu le plus drôle de l'année ...
Voilà commence Christmas Pudding !
C'est drôle, fin et terriblement intelligent comme toujours chez Nancy Mitford ♥

Wonderful Nancy Mitford...she manages to write about the upper class in a way that makes me want to join their ranks, rather than wring their necks. I particularly love her character Bobby Bobbin, who develops a brilliant scheme for getting extra Christmas presents. If you're a fan of thirties screwball comedies like THE THIN MAN, BRINGING UP UP BABY, and TO BE AND NOT TO BE, you'll love this book.
A game first novel. Pre-war, a drawing room comedy/comment on her own life. For Nancy is all too obviously the "Philadelphia" of this tale, the moral of which seems to be: one can be happy or rich, but never both. Nancy, of course, was more wealthy than happy.
A steady succession of boring anecdotes from a bland cast of characters.
Fun, but didn't enjoy it as much as the other Nancy Mitford novels I've read.
Nancy Mitford is too divine.
Luckily, their friend ex-lady of the evening, Amabelle Fortescue, has invited all her friends to a Christmas gathering at her rented country home Mulberrie- right near Crompton Bobbin.
The characters lives intersect and they interact with unpredictable and amusing results.This is a witty story about upper crust English men and women in the vein of Jane Austen.
The main character, if there is one, is Paul Fotheringay, a depressed writer in search of inspiration.
The next most prominently featured character is Bobby Bobbin, Lady Bobbin's son home from Eton for the holidays.
I think I would be depressed too if I had her life.
With scathing observation at times as sharp as Jane Austen, Mitford introduces a new character, Lord Lewes: ‘He was tall, very correctly dressed in a style indicating the presence of money rather than of imagination, and had a mournful, thin, eighteenth-century face.’ This is her second novel and features some of the personalities featured in her first, ‘Highland Fling’, though familiarity with the first is not essential for enjoyment.The action takes place over one month around Christmas, the pudding of the title refers to Mitford’s mixture of personalities in two house parties in the Cotswold countryside.
Idéaliste mais sans réelle volonté, il est l’auteur d’un drame sentimental qui a été élu, à son grand désarroi, le livre le plus drôle de l’année par les critiques.
Il s’installe à Compton Bobbin, avec la complicité de son élève, dans le but d’écrire la biographie d’une des ancêtres de la famille, poétesse victorienne.
L’aristocratie anglaise en prend pour son grade dans ce roman satirique et cinglant.
Une lecture très agréable pour la période des fêtes, au coin du feu avec un bon lait de poule, qui promet quelques bons éclats de rire.
