https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22693182-where-they-found-her
3.5 starsA baby's body is found in the quiet upperclass town of Ridgedale, New Jersey. The normal crime beat reporter is out of town and Molly (who usually does the fluff pieces) is pulled in to do a report on the scene. Molly is a recent addition to the town so she doesn't know the history of the area. She starts digging in for answers and finds out that another death had happened at the same place.Molly had also recently lost a baby herself and her friends and husband question her as to whethe
Molly is a recent addition to the town so she doesn't know the history of the area.
She starts digging in for answers and finds out that another death had happened at the same place.Molly had also recently lost a baby herself and her friends and husband question her as to whether she can handle being so close to this case.The story is told from multiple viewpoints including Barbara, the helicopter mom who is married to the chief of police.
Now Jenna is missing.Is she off with another man or is something more sinister happening?
It lost me with who the missing baby's dad turned out to be.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ poop.I hate attempting to write reviews about books I felt “meh” about. Although I read a little bit of everything, the mystery/thriller genre is definitely the one I gravitate toward most frequently. That being said, I’m extremely hard to please. A 3-Star rating is gooooooood for me. I also have high expectations from authors who I have previously read and enjoyed. Unfortunately for authors like McCreight (as well as others like Sama
Although I read a little bit of everything, the mystery/thriller genre is definitely the one I gravitate toward most frequently.
Such was the case with Where They Found Her after reading Reconstructing Amelia.Let’s start with the positive – Kimberly McCreight writes readable stories.
I’m sure many will disagree with me here (and that’s perfectly okay – just please don’t troll my review to tell me I’m an idiot), but I thought having the reporter recently having a stillbirth of her own just gummed up the works.
I’m also not a fan of authors using the same approach to multiple books.
Molly, the reporter sent out to cover the story is on the edges of being back to life after her own tragic miscarriage making the assignment doubly challenging.
The use of point of view as each of the main female characters told their story was confusing and didn’t bring the story forward.
The plot did not engage me and I didn’t “feel” for any particular character.
I had trouble finishing and knew where the story would end.
For me, this thriller wasn’t thrilling.My feelings about this haven't discouraged me from wanting to read Reconstructing Amelia.
Maybe I'll like this one better.
3.5 Loved the different formats, e-mails, journal entries, newspaper articles and comments, used in telling this story. A small town, a newborn baby found dead, and an investigation ensues. Secrets are revealed and some of them go back years, and some of the leaders of this town are exposed. Nothing is as it seems. A fast paced and intriguing story with some interesting characters, some that will do, anything to keep the truth from coming out.ARC from Publisher.
4.5 Stars.
I was hooked right away!
Wow is this the page turner!
Loved it!
I never finished Reconstructing Amelia because I couldn't get into it but decided to give this author another try.
This was a much better read for me.The only problem I had was with the character, Barbara.
Psychological thriller fans put this on the top of your To Read list!A word of advice for thriller readers like me who think about the ending right when the book begins.
Don't think about the "whodunit" aspect too much.
This book is worth reading in its entirety and not just for the ending.
Beginning half of the book-2.5 starsLast half of the book-3.5 starsI had a hard time connecting with this book right from the start.
So many characters to remember and multiple story lines made it hard for me to figure out what was what.
On the plus side, the lead story was what kept me turning the pages...I did want to know whodunit and why.
Finally a little over half way through the story lines started to come together and my questions were answered.
The author really does know how to spin a twisted tale!!As I've enjoyed her previous work, I will absolutely be keeping my eyes open for for her next big thriller!
Of course we had the almost obligatory comparisons to Gone Girl, but while this will most likely never get to the sales heights of that particular title, in every other way it is a superior piece of writing.Still reeling from a recent miscarriage, Molly Sanderson, who lives in upscale Ridgedale, with her professor husband and her young daughter is making a living as a reporter.
As she tries to piece together the puzzle of who the baby is and why the child was killed, Molly will come across much more than she bargained for as shocking secrets from the past will be brought to the present that threaten to tear Ridgedale apart.Combining wonderful characterisation and a nailbiting story line, Where They Found Her ticks all the boxes for a provocative read.
Here is another book that others seemed to really enjoy but that fell flat for me.
Here I found the characters (and there were so many!!) very one-dimensional and interconnected past the point of believability.
How all these seemingly cursory characters proved important in the end was a little weak and the relationship that was the most important piece of the puzzle was left unexplained...as was any legal follow-up to that branch of the story.
A confusing road to an unconvincing ending made this journey somewhat forgettable.
Giving this 3 stars feels generous, yet 2 might be a little low.
Twisty and enjoyable mystery, but fairly forgettable - lands somewhere around a 3.5. I'm not sure if these types of books are getting more generic or if I've just read so many that they no longer stand out...
I always fall victim to your tantalizing, suspense- fueled, and addicting plots!
As is customary in her writing, McCreight’s novel is full of suspense and mystery.
It is wonderfully written, and kept my attention from the very beginning (I finished the novel in a day and a half- there is never any “pacing myself” where McCreight is involved).
The characters were raw and honest, and the plot never faltered-every page and every chapter full of drama and intrigue.
I love McCreight’s books because they always (this one included) have a definitive, satisfying ending.
A reader knows what happened to each and every character, and is satisfied with the way justice plays out.
This is only Ms. McCreight's second full-length novel and after an amazing debut (Reconstructing Amelia), I know so many readers were looking forward to it.
I felt confused too many times and I think that had to do with the multiple POV's and storylines going on.
Personally, I couldn't give it more than 3 stars, but I would still recommend it to readers who plan to follow Kimberly McCreight's work.
Found myself a little confused at times following the multiple POV's and storylines but that could have been just me.
Let's just get this out of the way:I AM HARD TO PLEASE.I am deeply entrenched in the mystery/thriller/suspense genre.
That being said, I also hate writing reviews for 3 star ratings because I feel so monotone in my emotional reaction towards what I've read.
Real drama happens in my life, why do I need to watch other people deal with hard things too?
I want to read, and watch stories, that revolve around things that will (hopefully) never happen to me, and are wrapped around a puzzle I get to figure out.
So why spend 8 hours with a book like that?
The body of an infant has been found near a creek on the campus of Ridgedale University. No one knows whose baby this was, who killed the baby, and, of course, why someone would have done such a terrible thing. Molly Sanderson, a freelance journalist who has mainly covered the arts, lifestyle, and human interest beat for the  Ridgedale Reader  finds herself assigned to cover the story, and she is unprepared for the toll it will take on her psyche.Following the loss of her second baby, Molly suff
And Molly is determined to find out where all of the paths converge, especially if she can figure out what happened to the baby, and who she belonged to, no matter what it does to her, her life, and her relationships in the process.As I was reading Kimberly McCreight's new book, I found myself wondering which alternative I like better: a book in which you figure out what is going to happen before it is revealed, or a book that introduces so many possible solutions you haven't a clue what is going to happen.
But when Molly joined the police contingent on campus and spoke to the Detective in charge, she was horrified to discover the body was that of a baby…Sandy, living in the slum area of Ridgedale, and struggling to pay the rent as well as keep her mother Jenna from going off the rails completely, was being tutored by Hannah, daughter of police chief Steve, and Barbara, president of the PTA.
But Barbara had problems of her own; approached by her young son, Cole’s teacher, she was shocked to hear what her quiet and sensible son had been up to at school…As investigations into the death of the baby deepened, Molly discovered terrible secrets about some of the long-time residents of Ridgedale.
The book encompasses several viewpoint characters, and includes excerpts from diaries, newspaper articles (and the comments on those articles from the public reminded me a lot of comments my local newspaper gets except with better spelling!), and transcripts from therapy sessions.
It is quite interesting to see a character and understand their internal motivation, but to then see how their behaviour is seen by others who don't understand that.While McCreight writes nail biting stuff, I find it better quality than much in the genre because of her characterisation, her understanding of people, and her skill as a writer.
Even though she has a child now, if anyone has been through loosing a baby, miscarriage, stillborn, cot death or for whatever reason, those children still belonged to you.So to see this dead child was horrific for Molly Sanderson who was a newspaper reporter.
There is no one else to take on this case, she has to.Learning more and more details about the death of this child leads her more into its web.Molly learns that the place this baby was found is the same place that a body was found years ago.
Kimberly McCreight, delivers a multi-layered suspense, psychological crime mystery thriller, WHERE THEY FOUND HER; leaving you page-turning into the night to discover the devastating secret of the lives connected to these dark secrets.Set in an idyllic small suburban town of Ridgedale, NJ, we hear from different women with a multi-generational perspective.
We continue hearing from Molly, Barbara, and Sandy and how these lives become intertwined for a suspenseful climactic ending, as dark secrets come to the surface from one generation to another.
The more she digs she uncover decades-old secrets which have been buried, including sexual assaults.While listening to the audiobook it gets a little confusing at first with the introduction of different characters.
Another thoroughly well written novel by author Kimberley McCreight. I had the novel 'Reconstructing Amelia' recommended to me and really enjoyed it so it was an easy choice to read this book and I was not disappointed. The book is not full of action but it has very well written dialogues that build up the various characters to have them clear in your mind. The story is well laid out and makes perfect sense by the end of the book and is extremely well paced.
Molly Anderson is asked to cover the story for her newspaper, although she is still recovering from the loss of her own baby years earlier.
The story is told from 3 POVs: Molly, whose husband does not want her to cover this story, Barbara, the wife of the police chief and who tries to project a perfect life, and Sandy, a 16 year old high school drop out who is struggling with her dysfunctional mother.
All the characters in the story are very well portrayed, even the really unlikable ones.
(I'm talking about you, Barbara and Stella!)The story has a lot of unexpected twists and turns.
- My Description -She was found near the water's edge.Her small body was underneath the skinny trees that long ago had lost their leaves.
Ridgedale Reader reporter Molly Sanderson is asked to write the news report on a dead body found near the Ridgedale University campus.
Molly takes on the case because she has to.
Years before, Molly had lost a baby due to a miscarriage.
Molly interviews various people, sometimes putting herself in unsafe situations.
Being a reporter can be dangerous work.- My Review -When I first started reading this book, I wasn't too impressed with the author's writing style.
Molly Sanderson and her husband Justin, an English professor at Ridgedale University, have recently re-located to the idyllic town some time after the stillbirth of their second daughter.
Molly, a journalist, struggles with the guilt of what happened and has only just started working for the local newspaper, “The Ridgedale Reader,” covering fluff pieces when she is called to investigate a report of a body found on land that belongs to the University.
Being a small town, the author is able to link many of the characters through Ella’s kindergarten class – her classmates include Cole, the son of the Ridgedale Chief of Police, Steve Carlson and also the son of her friend, Stella.
As the book cover informs, this psychological thriller is told from the viewpoint of three different women.
By the time I got to Barbara’s (classic over-bearing mother) chapter, I was hooked.The body of an infant is found near an upscale small college town.
How the baby got there; who’s is it; and was it murder or foul play are plot questions throughout the book.
It takes place in a small New Jersey town, with many of the characters “townies”.
To fully appreciate this novel, you need to give it your full attention for long periods of time or else you won’t get the fabulous nuances.
I love a good psychological thriller, especially when they are as well thought out and well written as Where They Found Her by Kimberly McCreight.When I first read the synopsis for Where They Found Her, I was a little worried knowing that this novel was going to be told from three different points of view.
I really do love when novels are written from multiple perspectives, especially within a psychological thriller, but three is a lot and can sometimes make the story hard to follow especially when the perspectives are alternating.
She’s new to reporting and starts out a little naive and nervous but grows throughout the novel as she continues following the mysterious story.
3.5 StarsA dead infant is found on a college campus.
A freelance journalist is chosen to be the reporter on this case, which is extra difficult for her, as she is still reeling from the loss of her own baby.
Molly is determined to uncover the truth over this case, even if it means discovering deep, dark secrets of this sleepy college town.
I really liked this author's first novel, Reconstructing Amelia, so I was looking forward to this one.
It was slightly muddled in the middle, and I had a little difficulty keeping the female characters apart (ie.
I look forward to more works from this author.
The way she tells this story (ie, through multiple perspectives, flashbacks, journal entries, etc), is very similar to her approach to her last book, but it feels somehow improved here -- much more tightly plotted.
Very smart writing.Looking at this book now, as a whole, I see a lot of thematic similarities between it and Liane Moriarty's Big Little Lies -- so keep that in mind if you liked this one as much as I did!
Big Little Lies is a bit lighter-feeling (and Moriarty is such a damn witty writer), but both deal well in matters of family, community, friendship, and secrets.
dead body in the woods, reporter unexpectedly put on the case in a small town, brings back trauma...however, this book goes to show how different two books can be with similar premises.
each is equally intriguing and combines with the others to form a solid second novel, even more solid than mccreight's first.a baby's dead body is discovered at the start of this engrossing tale.
journalist molly sanderson is put on the scene, assigned to the case, taking the place of an out-of-town colleague.
I absolutely loved Reconstructing Amelia and was so excited to get a chance to read this one early.
(This one centers around a newborn girl who was found dead in a relatively remote area.
Nobody knows who her mom is, or how she got there, and obviously it has the small town in an uproar.)I love that Kimberly McCreight chose to have Barbara co-narrate.
If I had only heard about her in Molly and Sandy's chapters, it would have been impossible to even remotely like her.
I have to say, I absolutely love books that can take me by surprise.I can't wait for Kimberly McCreight's next book.Highly recommended.
It is so interesting how the three women are connected - (i.e.) the way Barbara is initially introduced through Molly's chapter being discussed with Stella.
This adds another layer to the story which I found very interesting.With  Where They Found Her being the first book I've read by  Kimberly McCreight, I can say that she has made a fan out of me.
I will certainly be checking out any future books by  Kimberly McCreight.I recommend to fans of any GREAT mystery novel filled with suspense and psychological thriller lovers.
McCreight's newest novel is centered around a small university town where the body of a newborn infant has been found in the river.
Molly, local small-town community reporter, finds herself in the unenviable position of reporting on the crime when the town's regular investigative reporter is conveniently out sick that day.
Even worse, the death hits hard for Molly since she is only just recovering from a late-term miscarriage herself.It probably goes without saying that Molly uncovers far more than just the death of an infant here.
Instead, she begins to discover town secrets that go back decades....secrets people in this small town do not want revealed.
Every character and storyline was a thread that was necessary to get to the conclusion.
In the same way gossip and secrets can detract from the truth in our own lives, the novel shows the same phenomenon.
All of the story lines were necessary for Molly's and the reader's investigation.
You pick up small threads, you see connections that you think are one thing, and end up being another.
Every plot line has a role, and they are all valuable to the conclusion.
I recommend staying in the moment with them and allowing the author to lead you through the story in the way the characters experience it.
