https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15769.The_Bourne_Supremacy
This book didn't have some of the elements that made the first one so great, but it had a few things that weren't there in the first book that I liked, namely the distinct seperation of David Webb, the mild mannered husband and Jason Bourne, the highly trained killing machine who cares for nothing but himself.
This time, allied with his once enemy and long time friend Alex Conklin (no, he doesn't die in the first book like in the movies), he must fly to Asia and kill a new assassin who is using the name of Jason Bourne.
But I soldiered on...In the end, the book was far less interesting than the Bourne Identity, perhaps because there was less for Bourne to do as the man being manipulated rather than manipulating everyone else.
Really, only one character emerged in this book who was genuinely interesting: Echo, Philippe d'Anjou, returns from the previous novel, seemingly a different character, this time around more of a magnificent old commando bastard and mentor figure.
"Oriental" is a frequent noun, there's racist language, and all the characters involved in political plotting on the Chinese side are fanatics inspired by the Cultural Revolution.
عالی بود! واقعاً عالی بود!در بین همه کتابهای ماجرایی که خوندم - البته تعدادش خیلی زیاد هم نیست- این بهترینشون بود. همیشه یه غافلگیری داشت. هر لحظه یه اتفاق جدید میافتاد. به هیچ وجه قابل پیش بینی نبود. تا لحظه آخر فقط مطمئن بودم که خود بورن زنده میمونه و حتی به زنده موندن ماری هم اطمینان نداشتم.
عالی بود! واقعاً عالی بود!در بین همه کتابهای ماجرایی که خوندم - البته تعدادش خیلی زیاد هم نیست- این بهترینشون بود. همیشه یه غافلگیری داشت. هر لحظه یه اتفاق جدید می‌افتاد. به هیچ وجه قابل پیش بینی نبود. تا لحظه آخر فقط مطمئن بودم که خود بورن زنده میمونه و حتی به زنده موندن ماری هم اطمینان نداشتم.
The first book that I'd read many many years ago, changed my life for the better.
I have this habit of implementing the learnings of what I read in practical life.The second book, The Bourne Supremacy, though its learnings cannot be implemented in real life unless you are in danger, but I'm sure I could use those when I do get in trouble some time.
If you readers have a habit of putting yourself in the protagonist's shoes, I'm sure, you wouldn't know what YOU would do if such life-threatening situation (count days or months or lifetime) presents itself to you.
My first thought will give you an idea of how this book reads: I am so happy to be done with it!
In the movie, his wife is killed right away.
The wife annoyed me to no end.
not wear makeup, 3.
wear flats instead of heels, 4.
not wear form fitting clothing.
So I guess she normally has a red Afro, wears clown makeup, 9 inch heels, and a body suit.
If Marie is so smart then why do her stupid clues not work with Bourne but alert McAllister?
Finally, I liked Bourne and D'Anjou working together.
First and foremost, this book has absolutely nothing to do with the movies that recently came out.
The real Jason Bourne (whose real name is David Webb) is, to say the least, furious and this fury is further fueled by the kidnapping of his wife, Marie.
After that, David Webb goes back to being Bourne in order to find his wife and to kill the man who is impersonating him.
I really enjoyed this book because it keeps the sense of action that movies have.
That difficult middle book in a trilogy.
This time, Bourne is tricked into heading to Hong Kong to track down his kidnapped wife.
Except it's all a government plot to get him to assassinate a rogue Chinese leader who is threatening the stability of the region.A frantic chase across the US, China and Hong Kong.
Involving the Chinese, American and British secret services.
This book was pretty un-put-down-able - including several late nights where my arms were unable to support the book any more.
Sadly the ending felt a little rushed and a little too neat, but that hardly detracts from the book at all.
The second novel in the original Bourne Trilogy and Mr Ludlum is really getting the hang of this character.
It is almost as if the fictional Jason Bourne is now living a life of his own and the author is just along for the ride.
Mainly set in Hong Kong and China the almost supernatural spy is leaving a trail of destruction and we are never really sure who is actually in control of actions and consequences.
Ludlum truly was a master of the genre.
If you liked the Bourne Identity then pick this up - no doubt worth your reading time.
The first 100 and the last 100 pages were great. The 400 pages in the middle were kind of slow. The book is totally different from the movie. The book takes place in China in the late 70s and is premised on how the world will pretty much end if China tries to take over Hong Kong before 1998. Nothing like an out-dated international crisis to get the blood pumping. I'm just glad to have finished this book (I read it over the course of 2 years).
Seasonal Reading Challenge Fall 2018 Task 15.9 - Get a Clue: Mystery MPG & Characteristic 3 (name in title)Request a Big Book ticket, as MMPB (I ‘read’ the audio) comes in at 688 pp.
The FBI/CIA guys get together and form a plan to motivate the real Jason Bourne to come out of retirement (aka witness protection program) and take on this killer.
Jason turns crazy thinking his wife is dead...all making great fodder for an explosive story.
Unfortunately, the story gets bogged down with the long drawn out conversations between the government/FBI/CIA folks and the Hong Kong government guys.
Where the mistake comes up is that Ludlum keeps mentioning the ranch is in Ontario (not Alberta!) Every time he wrote something about Marie being a tough Ontario ranch girl I would cringe.
I wish some of the newer thriller/crime writers could do that; divorce the incessant need to talk about Islam and Al-Qaeda in the same way.Ludlum’s premise is that someone posing as Jason Bourne is out in China and Hong Kong killing some high ranking officials in the PRC government (remember, this is a time when Hong Kong was still under British rule).
Not that I worry about the movie-going public, but anyone wanting to tackle the true and pure Bourne series will be sadly disappointed if their attention span is only that of shooting, killing, gore and sex.Kudos Mr. Ludlum on a job well done.
Once again, utterly forget all of the movies.
While book 1 of this series is superior, this is still a top-notch book.
Ludlum knows how to keep the tension brewing.
Once again, the protagonist's psychology (inner-conflict) is a great element of the tale.
I highly recommend this book; it's nothing like a "dumb action movie" book.
**************************SPOILER-ISH ISSUE BELOW-One peeve...
A thing I really never got: The Ambassador who manipulated David never convinced me that David was truly necessary for this mission.
Sure, David's the best.
Why didn't they get 5-10 agents and put them into the field to accomplish this mission?
It's a whodunit. It's a psychological thriller. It's a spy adventure. And more than everything, it's a beautiful love story.While the first 20-25% of the book is impressively straight forward, most part of the remaining book was thrillingly confusing, and at times agonising too.David Webb and Marie are thoroughly impressive as leads, but whenever Jason Bourne comes to the fore, he delivers the fireworks so rivetingly.. Having read the book at a stretch for a reason, the tension never really diffused. Guess I read it at the right time.
It was fine.
Far fetched but entertaining. Towards the end, it felt like the story had dragged on for too long. One glaring error - the citizens of Hong Kong speak Cantonese, not Mandarin; Mr. Ludlum's transliteration of the Chinese made them all sound like they were speak Mandarin. This is an important political distinction during this sensitive time for Hong Kong.
In this Bourne instalment the chameleon Jason returns to the spy/assassin game when his wife, Canadian economist, Marie, is kidnapped by a Chinese taipan who means serious business.
Jason moves heaven and earth to get her back, which means leaving his gentle alter-ego, David, behind and embracing the killer he tried so hard to forget, Delta, in the hunt for his successor.
I was seriously worried about the outcome for all of the characters involved, mainly David and Marie.Ultimately this is another book that explores the ideas of ends justifying means and whether one life is fair to trade for the lives of millions.
many pages but what with the action they quite flew by.
weird though that there was a second mini-climax like an afterthought.
not necessary in my opinion, the baddie could have been dealt with before the main climax.
again my never-ending gripe with thrillers: i don't need a love story in it.
why where the americans involved?) better not ponder the questions.
also not ponder the style too much either.
overall, i enjoyed it and will most likely at some point in the future read the next one as well.
Robert Ludlum always hooks me so easily in his well-researched books that I curse myself for ever aspiring of writing one myself!
I was fearing that this book might coincide with the movie, but thank goodness!, that never happened.
The movie has a plot very much different than the book.I can literally go on for hours, brooding about the sides of humanity covered in the book.
The lengthened dialogues and description add so richly to the background of the plot that I sometimes crave for more description!Robert Ludlum seems to me the best of writers in the category he writes for.
God, if this book could have been harder to get through, I'm not sure how.
There is basically nothing in common with this book and the movie except the name of the main character and the title.
Unbelievably, all the negatives of the first book were further exacerbated in this one by making the ranting 20 pages long instead of 10 and making the story into such a convoluted conspiracy that it's amazing the United States has a single person that doesn't work in black ops what with all the manpower put behind trying to control every major political event that ever occurred.
My dad gave me the 3rd one when he was visiting and said it was a little better, but I'm not sure I'm willing to risk it.
When I read the first book in the series, I was a bit disappointed.
I had just seen the movie adaptation and my expectations for the book were rather high.
I consider this the midpoint in the upswing of the Jason Bourne story arc; Ludlum has succeeded in introducing an interesting character, and he continually raises the bar in terms of action and excitement.
The third book in the series is the very best (in my opinion), but if you enjoy the character or story of Jason Bourne at all, this is worth the read.
So this time instead of Europe Bourne had to run through oriental environs of Hong Kong and China to grab a killer who is killing in his name in the name of Jason Bourne.
And David Webb has to be Jason Bourne again in order to stop the fake assassin and to stop a terrible plan from succeeding.
I don't remember the movie much and intend to watch them again but I don't think that the movie went on the similar storyline.
Once I finish 'The Bourne Ultimatum' I would finish the trilogy again.
I really liked this long book which took me long time to finish.
I couldn't put down The Bourne Identity, but I couldn't seem to pick this one up. It took me a while to finish this because I kept setting it aside for better reads. There is way too much going on in this book that I just didn't care about and as far as I could tell tell had nothing to do with the main plot. I will say though it was interesting seeing the Bourne/Webb identities clash in a way that isn't brought up in the films.
As before, please read the book and forget the movie. if you've seen the movies and think you got the story you haven't. Ludlum plotted and charactized a complex and well thought out story...and this may be the waekest of the series. it's still far better than the recent movie.
I had read the first book which brought me here :-) An ideal sequel, it takes the original story forward and further develops themes and ideas from its predecessor while setting "Delta" loose in a whole new world and an entirely different sort of adventure.
It succeeds on "almost" every level, combining fascinating characters (where new ones get added to the old ones), colorfully depicted exotic locales( which is definitely worth being a part of travelogue), and a fresh, original and compelling story.
Great book with a great story, but also a heavy story.
Great book but super violent. I would not recoment to a child under 12.
I went into this book, once again, having long since seen the movie. This fortunately was an almost completely different story that in many ways would have made a compelling movie. Jason Bourne is a strong character with layer after layer, and his complex existence makes these very easy to read and difficult to put down. By this point, I was going out and buying all of the Bourne books out there, shocked to find out how many there were.
AUTHOR... ROBERT LUDLUM....CHARACTERS... Jason Bourne ((aka)) David Webb ((aka) Delta, Marie, Edward Newington McAllister, Raymond Havilland, Morris Panov, Alex Conklin, Sheng Chou Yang, Lin Wenzu, D'Anju (Echo), and others...LOCATION... KAWLOON ,LOK MA CHAU (HONG KONG), MACAU (PEOPLE's REPUBLIC OF CHINA)GENRE... THRILLER // ADVENTURE...!!!PLOT...!!! #THIS IS MY NEW BLOG POST ABOUT THIS NOVEL...!!!JASON BOURNE aka DAVID WEBB..David Webb was actually a scholar by profession, spoke several Orienta
Jason Bourne ((aka)) David Webb ((aka) Delta, Marie, Edward Newington McAllister, Raymond Havilland, Morris Panov, Alex Conklin, Sheng Chou Yang, Lin Wenzu, D'Anju (Echo), and others...LOCATION...
..But the CIA man Alex Conklin who mounted the secret operation tried to trap David Webb because of dangerous assassin he had become in the name of James Bourne.
Posing as a grieving husband for his murdered young wife, by Sheng's assassin, British major from MI6, Lin Wenzu, meets Jason Bourne at the walled city of Kawloon.
I liked this better than the first one, even thought I had seen the movie before reading it. I engaged with the characters more and felt that it was faster moving and with lots of thrills,. The fascination I had in the first volume with the international dimensions of this thriller were continued here and it was nice to travel to exotic faraway places in the company of such a hero. Nice writing, I thought.
