https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18553.The_Cay
Young Phillip was on a freighter, which was blown up.
Blinded, he only has a cat and an elderly Black West Indian, Timothy, with him on the small raft of survivors.
Phillip, as per the era, has been 'warned' about the vast differences between Whites and Blacks.
Yet when they arrive on the island, it is the West Indian who shows courage, grit and warmth to help them survive for the time being .I won't spoil it, but it's an incredibly powerful, sad and inspirational story.
What's more, I still recall the emotional impact it had on me as a kid - and that surely speaks volumes for the story.
The main character is Phillip who doesn’t want to leave his home, his school, and his father, just because of the fact that his mother is scared something bad might happen to them.
This book tells us that, people grow up and when the time comes, they understand what may happen, and that’s what changes them.
Timothy was Phillips eyes, and again, he didn’t have to be if he didn’t want to be, but he cared for Phillip and helped him through his times of need.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Childhood Reading: "The Cay" by Theodore TaylorOriginal Review, 1981-02-15)I have some sympathy with some people in the sense that it is disappointing to re-read a cherished childhood book and have these once-unquestioned prejudices jump off the page. Quite disconcerting. However, when we were ourselves children, it was water off a duck's back. We were reading for the story, not the attitudes.
D'Ette had to read this book for school and she loved it.
She asked me if I would also read it.It's a children's book, so it doesn't take long to read.
It's a great story, told from the point-of-view of 12-year-old Philip, who gets lost at sea with a black man after the boat he is traveling in with his mother is attacked by Germans.
Philip loses his sight and is forced to learn how to live on a small island without his sight.
It's a great story for older kids or adults looking for an adventure to read in an afternoon.
This is the best book eva!!!!! It is so sweet! I cried my eyes out at the end though!
Phillip has been blinded as a result of the shipwreck and must rely on Timothy to help him survive on the island.Theodore Taylor effectively illustrates the mature theme of race relationships during a tenuous time in history through Phillip and Timothy's unusual relationship in this book.
A great book for any student old enough (and motivated enough) to tackle Timothy's island accent (the only real challenge of this quick read)!
This book is...amazing. It makes you think of so many things. It makes you realize what truly is wrong with the world, and how messed up it was before.
It was good but in some parts it was sad
I was super skeptical though, on reading the blurb…I mean, it’s clearly meant to be a demonstration of how we are all PEOPLE above whatever color our skin is, but I was concerned that a book written in 1969 might not be as socially aware as it was thought at the time of publication.It was an entertaining enough little story, if a little slow at times.
Also, its use makes it more difficult for some of the intended audience to comprehend the dialogue.The dialect issue was probably my biggest one with the book, since by the time the resolution comes Philip has entirely revamped his view of black people (and we hope, of anyone else different from him).
So they find a small island where they will struggle for food, fight against the weather conditions and struggle to survive and wait for their rescue, if they get one.
Day after day of lighting signal fires and slowly waiting for a rescue from anybody out there looking for Phillip and timothy.
Sadly timothy died from Malaria and from saving Phillips life in the severe tropical storm that hit them.
This is the first of the two.This is the story of an 11 year old boy, Philip, who ends up stranded on a small remote island with an old West Indian man named Timothy, and a cat named Stew Cat after the ship they were on was torpedoed.
And by the end of the book, I think we all had a few tears in our eyes.My son said he loved this book because it "had meaning" and contained "lots of action".
We are excited to see if an audio book is available for the second book - Timothy of the Cay.
To start with Phillip is quite rude to Timothy and tries to order him around, but he eventually comes to realise that while Timothy may talk differently and may have lived a very different life than the one Phillip has known that doesn't make him a lesser man, no matter what his mother tried to teach him.
The ending was wrapped up very quickly, but I would have been interested to read how Phillip's mother had been rescued from the wreckage of the ship when it would have been so dangerous to send any ship or aircraft out.
If I had the chance I would be interested in reading the sequel just to see what happened to Phillip after his rescue.
Would you like to know why this was a great book? This was a great book because it had interesting things that happens and big plot events that happens. Also, there were lots of sad parts that happened. So I guess this book was full of emotions. Overall that is why I like this book.
“The Cay”Renee Armitage5thThe Cay by Theodore Taylor .Phillip Enright is a young 11 year old boy living on a small island named Curacao in the middle of a war with the Germans .In this novel there are many hidden messages one of which is that you don’t live by sight.
Phillip a small 11 year old white boy and Timothy is a large 70ish black man who are now trapped together with the cook’s cat named Stew Cat on a raft in the middle of the ocean, when they find a very small Cay (island) to land on but sadly after they are settled the island is attacked by a huge hurricane desolating everything in sight including Timothy leaving Phillip blind and alone on a destroyed with Stew Cat as his only company.The theme of this book is survival.
I'll never forget the day (1975) my fourth grade class in St. Thomas discovered this book on our library shelves.
The protagonist, Phillip, was easily-relatable, and Timothy, the aged deckhand from Charlotte Amalie who saves his life, could have been any one of a number of old men we saw sitting around Emancipation Park, or over at Market Square, or playing dominoes on the waterfront.
The fact is that Taylor's characters and settings were so real, they perfectly captured life in the Caribbean, something that had never really been attempted or accomplished by an American writer previously--and has not been duplicated since.
A sweet and beautiful story about friendship and survival from two very unlikely but lovable companions.
I loved the cover photo (which was of Timothy) but never read it until 5-10 years ago.
I just finished audiobooking it and really loved it.
He is interviewed at the end of the audiobook and talks about his inspiration.
This story is beautifully told and covers so well several important themes.
She told him that when the book was printed in braille, it was an inspiration to blind children everywhere, who felt empowered at the thought that maybe they could do hard and great things on their own too.
This one is a great coming of age story and is a classic.
I read this aloud to the kids. We stayed up until 11:00 Friday night: "Mom, just one more chapter. Please!" It's set during WWII in the Caribbean. An American boy and an elderly Caribbean man get stuck on a raft together when their boat is sunk by a German torpedo. Dis dialect be outrageous fun to read, bahss.
This was so shit
Phillip Enright, the 11 year-old main character, is excited when the Germans invade the small island of Curaçao.
Timothy and Phillip must now struggle to stay alive on this deserted island by battling outside forces and internal prejudices.
Some of the important themes in this book involve struggling for survival, sacrificing for another person, and overcoming prejudice.
*SPOILER ALERT* The climax of the novel is when a dangerous hurricane hits the cay and Timothy and Phillip must struggle to survive.
nature conflict that Timothy and Phillip experience throughout the novel.
This is one of those rare stories that feels so complete it 's rolled around and around in my thoughts since we've finished it.
Read it on a rainy day when you might be feeling sorry for yourself.
It's the line in the story when Phillip hollers, "They've finally come for us Timothy!" that I think my heart actually broke.
(Just a note: my girls' favorite chapter books to read individually are ones they have heard on CD.
They choose to read really challenging books this way.) So glad to have this recommended on goodreads!!!
This book is really interesting.
This book is about a boy named Philip who is in the middle of a war and his father is in the battle.
One day his mother and father where talking and came up with the idea to go to live for a few months to a safer place.
Philip loses his sight after the bomb.
They go through a lot of problems and different types of adventures in the lonely desert island.
They spent a lot of time in the island.
After a few months a big hurrican3e happen to hit the island.
I thought that this book was a action and adventure excellence.
The bond that Timothy and Phillip develop is a heart warming friendship.
This story was about a ship wreck that brought two different types of people with two very different lives together.
All ages would enjoy the crazy adventure Phillip over comes in life.
Phillip and Timothy dish out the many days they were stuck at see to the many days stuck on a deserted island.
Strategy and knowledge can get you anywhere is how I view this book and the story that Theodore Taaylor has to tell.
He felt neither white or black.”Award-winning young readers novel set in the Caribbean Sea during World War Two. A white boy and an old black sailor man find themselves adrift with little hope of rescue … and the boy is blind.
“Voodoo is silly, I knew, but also frightening.”Published in 1969, this is good story telling.
The eleven-year-old protagonist sounds and feels real.
D’wahr.”The text is straight-forward and should be easily read by young readers, except the pidgin spoken by Timothy.
All its recognition justified.“Take him, God, he was so good to me.”
I first read The Cay perhaps fifteen years ago, a novel that I remember was outstanding and filled with action, but I couldn't quite remember why it stuck in my heart.
I checked The Cay out during spring break to read over again, and I was not disappointed.
Phillip Enright, a spoiled little white boy, is stranded on a tiny island (a cay) with a black man named Timothy during World War II.
Phillip's mother always taught him that "black folks have their place and we white folks have ours." Now Philip must decide whether to ignore his mother's advice and accept Timothy for the man he is, or to continue to treat Timothy as a lesser human being.
Full review at Smoke & Mirrors: http://books-n-music.blogspot.com/201....
Stayed up too late last night finishing this one, but I couldn't stop!!
I thought I would just read a few pages before going to bed, but that turned into reading the rest of the book!
This is so very poignant!
I can only imagine the shock of those who arrived on the island.
I was very glad for the ending.
I had remembered the death, but had forgotten the cure!
:) I can see why I loved this as a child and I loved it just as much now if not more!
:) Review post on the blog to come!
Having previously noted the imagery of this version's cover, it was difficult to ignore the homoeroticism of the hurricane scene. It was like a Barbie rescue fantasy only with Ken and Alan--crushed together, whipped naked by the storm, sticky with body fluids in the exhausted aftermath--I'm not kidding. Can you tell I teach middle school?
I’m so glad I decided to read this childhood favorite again. It’s such a beautiful tale that truly makes a home in your heart ♥, and it still makes me tear up which honestly very few books ever manage to do. The way the author combines literal and figurative circumstances to fit the moral take away is done with such natural ease and finesse that you don’t mind how short the tale is or the details left out because it’s perfect for its intended audience as stated by the quote at the start of the b
The way the author combines literal and figurative circumstances to fit the moral take away is done with such natural ease and finesse that you don’t mind how short the tale is or the details left out because it’s perfect for its intended audience as stated by the quote at the start of the book 📖.
I had the joy of getting to read this as a school book 📚 so my hope is that it’s still finding its way as it was always hoped to into the hands & hearts of many young ones.
This book is the best book ever. 5 stars all the way.
Warning.There's a part in the book where the kid and Timothy go through a hurricane, and they can't get away from it.
And I want to say that there's a touching scene where the kid feels Timothy's back (because remember, he's blind!) and realizes how beat up Timothy got for him.
Always offer your back to a hurricane if you want to show your new friend how much you love him.
