https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16176440-we-are-all-completely-beside-ourselves
It's about a family in which to of the siblings are gone, and no one will talk about why.I loved Fowler's wry wit.
I laughed at Rosemary's attempts to talk to people without their would be boy/girlfriend getting in the way.
I especially loved that there were words in this novel that I hadn't ever seen before and didn't know the meaning of, as that rarely happens anymore.I especially loved that it dealt with difficult, political topics without getting too heavy-handed or proselytizing.
I could not relate to the characters and the choppy writing style! Wanted to like this book, and there were interesting elements, but I couldn't connect to the way the story was told. Forced myself to even skim the book. Am I the only person, it seems, who did not like it?
‘Honestly, I have the worst luck.’ ”Luck?
That's not luck, that's typical stupid choices leading to disaster.
Rosemary Cooke is 22 in what she calls the middle of her story, and gets arrested for throwing milk in her college cafeteria.
I don’t think I should say more about the story, only that I was laughing almost immediately and crying by the last page.
It just doesn’t get any better than tears, laughter, and amazement.This novel is probably the best thing I've read in over a year, and I am a devoted reader.
The main character has genuine bad luck and blames herself for it.
So if I was to give Karen Joy Fowler advice on how to write a great novel, I'd tell her to come with an engaging, intelligent and witty narrator and have her tell a captivating, moving and timely story and do it in a compelling and original way.
Although the change made the book a bit awkward and a little too fantastical at first, Fowler develops it beautifully and produces a strong and important novel of our or anyone's times.
It is a compelling, very readable, very witty and tremendously moving novel about family and life on earth.
This book got me out of my very long reading slump.
It was such an easy book to read, yet it was wonderfully complex.
Not a false note, though the very ending wasn’t perfect for me, but it was okay.
I loved all the literary and psychology/science references.
So, that was fun, even though there wasn’t a huge amount of detail of either, but I still had fun knowing the places.
Unfortunately, I knew much about it before reading it, and this is one book that’s much better to go into totally cold.
Reading book descriptions and reviews is not.
If you don’t know the premise of this book already, I decided not to be the one to tell you.
Rosemary Cooke is a university student in California and in most ways fairly typical.
As the Booker committee would no doubt agree (they short-listed this for the prize in 2014, the first year American authors were eligible), it’s very well done.
"Antagonism in my family comes wrapped in layers of code, sideways feints, full deniability.""Parents are too innocent for the Boschian landscapes of middle school.""When I run the world, librarians will be exempt from tragedy.
I enjoyed The Jane Austen Book Club (although it is one of those rare books where I actually liked the movie better).The whiny main character (the voice of this first-person narrative) got on my nerves; no wonder she had difficulty forming even fictional friendships.
The timeframe pointers with music and movies were clever, the setting at UC Davis was well done, the cast of supporting characters was charming and witty.The book is based on a clever twist that for me made "before the reveal" feel restrained while the part "after the reveal" felt laboured and too long.
Update: $1.99 Kindle special today! I loved it. --- For those who missed this book - it's a great discussion read! I'm sure my other review must be around some place .... either way, this book is terrific ... less money than a cup of Starbucks latte! Where the heck is my original review? I read it when this book first came out...Seems we had a long discussion going!I say WOW!!!!! Emotionally charged!!! It's a terrific book club pick!Much to discuss! Many side themes as well as major themes!!
5+++++++++ STARS 5++++++ 5+++++ I have people in my yard --and little time to write a review --yet I could talk about this book for hours. Its a book which will leave a LASTING impression with me on 'many' accounts.Here is a wonderful line in the book....(I just LIKED it) ---yet its not even what I would speak about FOR HOURS...Here is the 'gem' (this is for YOU book lovers):"When I run the world, librarians will be exempt from tragedy. Even their smaller sorrows will last only for as long as you can take out a book."
this is a dark moment in my reading life...and it’s particularly scary because I failed to see anything at all in zafon's book and he somehow, magically perhaps, knew that I would fail with his book...yes, he knew that....and he wrote that line just to make me panic, to make me hyperventilate, to turn me into a...hysterical...babbling....mess...Help, Help!) Maybe what I need right now is an aphorism from Karen Joy Fowler's narrator - who is inclined to be hysterical and uses aphorisms to calm herself down: Sometimes you best avoid talking by being quiet...
Further proof that the 2014 Man Booker Prize was an absolute farce. I was enjoying this novel until it went all Jane Goodall. I applaud its use of an unconventional narrative structure and Fowler's humourous prose but the plot just bored me. Like a sandwich from Quiznos, I had to really force myself to finish it. It would be fine without all the monkey business.
We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves is the story of the Cooke’s, a wholly dysfunctional family, narrated by the youngest of three children, Rosemary.
Rosemary grew up in a household, surrounded by attention, chaos and love.
And they adored their big brother Lowell.
And her brother Lowell ran away and everything changed.
Throughout the years, Rosemary kept to herself and has never let anyone in.
To answer that, I’m afraid you must pick up this incredibly brilliant novel and find out for yourself.Rosemary Cooke’s sarcasm and witty remarks had me laughing out loud, unable to stop.
I understood Rosemary.
I've purposefully avoided any information about the book prior to actually reading it - it's very easy to spoil, and I think the overall effect will be lessened if you know this particular plot detail.And it is this detail which makes the book exceedingly difficult to review, or discuss, without spoiling it for other readers - but I will nonetheless try to do my best, and divide the review into two sections: one where I discuss the spoiler, and subsequently a spoiler-free zone where I'll present my general remarks.The spoiler section: (view spoiler)[We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves is a tale of two sisters, but unlike the Korean film of the same name the twist is wildly different - one of the sisters is a chimpanzee.
I dont know what i was expecting when i picked this up but im so glad i did.I loved this book. Such an unusual story. Short chapters.Learned so much. Lots to think about the welfare of animals.Very emotional.I knew nothing about this book going in and im so glad. The less you know the better.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/4.5 Stars  “In everyone’s life there are people who stay and people who go and people who are taken away against their will.”  This is the story of three siblings: Rosemary (who stayed), Lowell (who went), and Fern (who was taken away). The only reason I even gave this book a chance was because some of my Goodreads friends were reading it and giving it many stars. I mean, the other book I recognized as being written by the author was T
Sadly, this is one of those books where I really can’t say anything without potentially giving everything away, so you’ll just have to trust me when I say We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves was this close to being rated 5 Stars by me (it loses half a point only for occasionally taking itself a little too serious with the scientific mumbo-jumbo which caused my attention to wane).
I feel confident in saying that this will go down as one of the best books I read in 2014 and I hope to always remember that “in the phrase human being, the word being is much more important than the word human."
It is a story of a dysfunctional family, of discovery of self, of the role of memory and recovery of childhood memory in adulthood, of loss, all through the eyes of daughter Rosemary.
We need to be "in" the confusion.While there are so many more things that I could say about the book, I'd much rather say "read it!" "experience it for yourself." This is unlike any book I've read before as a novel of a family life and reads almost like a memoir.The more I have thought about and discussed the book, the more I have decided that I need to increase my rating to 5* from my original 4.
I think Fowler's writing is mostly fine.
I liked the way Fowler often spoke directly to the reader.
Human children over-imitate, reproducing each step regardless of its necessity." The behavioral psychology of animals/humans was often fascinating and always well researched.What I did not care about was the Cooke family.
The only relationship that I cared about was Rosemary and Fern.
Ezra, Rosemary's landlord and a very minor character was my favorite.
I think I better depart right here before some of the rabid lovers of this book find out where I live.
There are only after-effects.This is a very psychological and sociological novel set up as a near-twin study and an attempt to obliterate social differences by simply raising both children the same at the same time, but instead of getting a well-ordered experiment, life happens.
In the end, though, I'm stuck in a quandary.Is there any real difference between Rosemary's brother Lowell and Fern?
And, obviously, shouldn't we be treating ourselves better?These are the SF questions that I've seen a hundred times, and it's a real delight to see them brought so close to home.
Memory is just as much a prison as anything.Again: This novel was a real delight!
It takes her 77 pages to reveal a central truism of her life (which, inexplicably, is revealed by the publisher on every book blurb about this novel): she spent the first eighteen years of her life defined by the fact that she was raised as “twins” with a chimpanzee named Fern.“I tell you Fern is a chimp and already, you aren’t thinking of her as my sister,” Ms. Fowler writes.
This emotionally devastating book – which folds back on itself to reveal more and more of the story through false and real memories – confirms what I have long believed: that the rest of the animal kingdom has much to teach us in being human.
So this can be a condemnation of the animal experiments, a warning to us perhaps about overreaching, and at times it almost bordered on the preachy, but just when I thought that the author would pull back.
Also family, what does it mean to be a family and exactly what do we owe other family members?Any way one wants to read this, it is well done, interesting, and animal lovers will surely be appalled but maybe it is something we all need to think about.
All Fowler’s characters in this novel, from the narrator on down, exhibit just the sort of humanity which will make you laugh and weep.I worry that saying much more will reveal too much.
The problem with that novel was that the narrator often suffered a ventriloquist dummies’ manhandling when the author stepped into her mouth to make every sort of social observation that strained credulity coming from a sexy motor cycle riding, recent college grad, want-to-be artist.
No, Rosemary’s observations all feel genuine to her character, as if this fine author summoned her to page, séance-like.
So if you've read the book description or read anything about this novel in a magazine review or author interview, don't worry about the spoiler tags!
Fern, (view spoiler)[a chimpanzee, (hide spoiler)] and Rosemary are raised together as siblings; they are practically twins.
(view spoiler)[She suppresses the "otherness" in herself, the chimpanzee part, which her elementary schoolmates dubbed "monkey girl."  (hide spoiler)] No one at UC Davis knows anything about her, and she wants to keep it that way.
(view spoiler)[Rosie doesn't tell us that Fern is a chimp until we're 20 percent into the book (to be fair, the book description reveals this, so it's not much of a giveaway).
"In everyone's life, there are people who stay and people who go and people who are taken against their will." Who do you remember the most? I asked myself. Those who make part of my primary circle of existence and have enriched my being with their presence? Or those who came and then departed for good, leaving an indelible mark on my life, as it looks today? Or those who, by all means that I could fathom, were supposed to be a part of my life but were disengaged from me with a menacing strike
She gets up one morning and realizes that her sister, Fern, has been taken away from her.
Or she springs to life every time a loved one’s warm breath passes over her static smile?
And I must say the journey turned out to be a momentous one.(view spoiler)[I came to know that Fern was a chimpanzee; a twin who bears a five-year long experiment of Rosemary's Father, a Psychologist.
When the experiment gets aborted, Fern gets abandoned to live a life with species of her own kind.
We all love atleast someone in our lives like that.
"I’VE TOLD YOU the middle of my story now. I’ve told you the end of the beginning and I’ve told you the beginning of the end." So says the narrator. Read all those missing bits for yourself as I do not wish to spoil the plot for you.
She's been in college too long, unable to settle on a major and troubled by the long ago disappearance of her sister and brother.
We come to learn that Rosemary's father was an experimental psychologist and - around the time Rosemary was born - the Cooke family took in an infant chimp to raise as a member of the family.
The chimp, Fern, was reared as a sister to Rosemary and her older brother Lowell until she 'disappeared' when Rosemary was five years old.
We come to know, understand, and empathize with each member of the family (mom, dad, Lowell, and Rosemary) as they deal with the effects of this aborted experiment.
Just two stars for this one because for me it was just an okay book. No spoilers but the big reveal about Fern which is supposed to make the book more interesting just ruined it for me. I was expecting one thing and got another and it all became a bit too wacko for my taste. Rosemary was a very weak, unlikeable character and I just wanted to smack Harlow. And then for a big finale we discover that Rosemary's memory of events was not to be relied upon anyway. So basically it was all for nothing.
This isn't going to be a long review, because I don't want to ruin this book for anyone.
(I don't mean quirky in a Wes Anderson kind of way, because it's not like that at all, but it's just a little bit different - in a good way!) It's an accurate depiction of childhood, and the foggy half memories that come back when you reflect on that childhood.
It's really quite good - I think it's one of those stories that I've rated 4 stars and will come to appreciate more over time, rather than something that fades from memory and after several months should really be knocked down to a 3.
But I didn't, and that was ok.However, even not knowing that there even is a twist didn't help me enjoy the book more than I did, and here is why:The beginning of the story was awesome - the MC, Rosemary Cooke, is inadvertently arrested when another woman goes mental on her ex-boyfriend in a cafeteria.What a great start to a story!
There is also the "big reveal", after which the book continues in search for a conclusion.Fowler takes up an interesting story full of thoughtful observations and quirky dialogue, but I could not help feeling that the issues Fowler tried to address where over-written and drawn out to an extent where I lost interest.
oh come ON! I reached the big reveal that many reviewers (but not the publishers it seems) are trying so hard to avoid mentioning. The narrator thought some of us might be irritated by her coy refusal to wait so long before explaining her secret. She was right. Plot line and precocious babbling voice aren't enough. This reads like a YA novel.Next.
Someone recommended Karen Joy Fowler's novel "We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves", and, I'll be honest, I was hesitant to read it because she also wrote "The Jane Austen Book Club", a book which I haven't read but which seemed like the kind of chick lit that I can't stand---a group of women from all walks of life, bonding over some kind of club (be it knitting, cooking, books, traveling pants, or Downton Abbey), talking about how shitty their relationships are or reminiscing about the dream guy who got away in college or the one time they visited Paris yadda yadda yadda---which I realize is the worst kind of book snobbery and blatant prejudice but, hey, I'm just being honest.
