https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19004663-top-secret-twenty-one
5. Ranger reveals more of himself in this book: You find out that while still sexy and mysterious, he’s also a bit of an ass:R: “I understand your emotion, but you’d serve no purpose today, You’d be a liability”S: “Gee, that’s so flattering.
Ranger loans Stephanie his car she gets it blown up.
Stephanie STILL hasn’t make a firm choice between Team Ranger and Team Morelli17.
At least with the FanFiction, you get to pick Team Ranger, or Team Morelli, you have a conclusion, the character development is a bit better and you don’t have to shell out hard earned bucks for a book that is a rehashed, watered down version of what you’ve previously purchased.
Please don't shoot the criticJanet Evanovich has been writing best-selling books for so many years I forget when I started reading them.
Maybe she just had no more left for Stephanie to do.
But since about book 11, I think we all started getting tired of it.
For the last ten books (translate ten years and about $300.00, not to mention the shelf space we have lost) you can take off the dust jackets, mix them around and put them in any order you want.
I actually SKIMMED through this book.
Ranger vs Morelli...the triangle continues!
There are some quirky, silly things you can always rely on when reading a Stephanie Plum novel.
She will lose/destroy at least one car, her apartment will be trashed and grandma Mazur will say or do something inappropriate at the local funeral parlor.
Well you won't be disappointed with this one.
It includes all that and then some.
Now you can add assassins targeting Ranger!!
If you've read this series then you know what I'm talking about.
You will be guaranteed plenty of laughs as you watch Stephanie go from one disaster to another.
THE DRINKING GAME REVIEWI hadn't read a Plum novel since about number 10 or so, then I decided that they were getting pretty boring and Stephanie wasn't aging or choosing a man, so I took a break.
I did promise some people here I would come up with a drinking game to make the next one bearable.
After Reading:Sigh.I knew it.Not one, not two, but three different bad guys Stephanie gets to take down.
Throw in Randy Briggs, a pack of wild Chihuahuas (instead of a giraffe like the last book) and Grandma Mazur with a gun and you have the first twenty books repeated in a slightly different order in this book.Sigh again.Please just end the series already.3/4/14 Pre Reading Review:Top Secret?Oh boy.Well, she won't choose between Ranger or Morelli...
Bad things will happen, Ranger will save her, Lula will get her in trouble while in tight clothes, her grandmother will wave a gun and then Stephanie will somehow miraculously save the day!Sigh.
I can't wait to read this!"  - Book-buying public (me included)^That was my pre-read review, but honestly I might have to open up a hotline like Miss Cleo if Evanovich continues to write such predictable stories.I want to point this out:"I was in the backseat with an ice pack on my bruised cheek, and I didn't ever want to repeat my day." -pp.288That's all Stephanie is doing anymore.
They are the only interesting characters anymore.I'm giving it 2.5 stars: a mediocre rating for yet another mediocre story from Evanovich.
It also offers a deeper look at Ranger's past, Stephanie's grandmother's bucket list, and Joe Morelli's tolerance level when it comes to Stephanie's escapades.
She's a barrel of laughs, but I couldn't worry about someone 24/7 the way Ranger and Joe have to worry about her.
while I couldn't be her lover, I can definitely love her antics.Oh, how I laughed.
Grandma Mazur looking into a boob job was a little much for me to handle, but I can appreciate the things people put on their bucket list.
The search for the culprit was fun, but the ending was a little too confusing and wrapped up neatly in a weird way.
Sure, you know what's going to happen, but it has a type of comfort and still can make you smile.But, after reading my last book that made me frustrated and murderous because the alpha-male thing, I started to see Stephanie in a new light.
Ranger gives her excitement, danger, and doesn't try to change her.And, about those two men - she doesn't make a choice and "live happily ever after".
I can actually respect Stephanie's choices more than our alpha-male mates.All that said - Go #TeamRanger!
I have to be honest, when I read the last Stephanie Plum novel, I was really disappointed and I thought it would be time for Mrs. Evanovich to either make drastic changes or retire the characters.
But I must admit, Mrs. Evanovich, seems to be back to her great writing performance!Stephanie Plum seems to be back to her catastrophic self, but for a change, she isn't the only one that needs help.
Over all, a great and fast read and Stephanie Plum fans will not be disappointed.
Two-haiku review:Someone's after BriggsSteph's apartment gets blown upRanger's car explodesA little funnyNothing new, same old same oldI didn't feel it
I am seeing this series a comic. Is just the longer reading. I love it. It puts me in a good mood, helps me relax.Ask yourselves: how much you change over the year? Not so much. So leave Stephanie alone. ((hah, "leave Britney alooone")
The story line of someone from Ranger's past trying to kill him was somewhat of a repeat from Notorious Nineteen, but it was a different twist and felt grittier than the other scenario.
I'm not a fan of Randy Briggs, who plays a predominant role in this book, but his story line intermixes with the others pretty well.
I felt like Morelli's need to incorporate tricks in the bedroom with Stephanie were a little desperate.
I feel like we are headed towards a Ranger who really throws his hat in the ring for her.
Stephanie Plum, bail enforcement agent, needs to round up Jimmy Poletti - a used car salesman accused of of trafficking girls.
Cop Joe Morelli is trying to capture Poletti and shows up at the various murder scenes and in Stephanie's love life - often with pizza or donuts.
Many of the previous books in the Stephanie Plum series are laugh out loud funny, but it feels like Evanovich is really running out of steam with this one.
The book felt stale, it recycled the same old scenes, and Stephanie still lusts after both Joe and Ranger - which is tiresome by now.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ ♪ ♫ ♪ ♫ ♪ ♫ “Twenty-first verse, same as the first, but a little bit louder and a whole lot worse!I’m Stephanie Plum, I amStephanie Plum, I am, I am,I’ve been chasing FTAs for over fourscoreThey blow up my house and kidnap me just like before” ♪ ♫ ♪ ♫ ♪ ♫  What can I even say when it comes to reviewing the twenty-first book in a series? This edition follows the patented “Stephanie Plum Format” – Stephanie attempts to capture run-of-th
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/
What can I even say when it comes to reviewing the twenty-first book in a series?
After all that, at some point Stephanie gets kidnapped, Ranger comes and saves the day (but somehow Stephanie goes home to bang Joe), and we readers wait three to six months for the next installment to be released.Will I rush to the library for #22?
To quote the immortal words of Ranger .
Anti-climactic. I might be done with Stephanie Plum. Just marry Morelli will you!
Yikes!And that's just one of Steph's problems this time.
Big Bad in this one is russian assassin with "much common in Russia" name - Vlatko.
I don't know how miss Evanovich came to that name in her research, but in all my 28 years living in Ukraine and Russia, I never once came across that name.
For curiosity's sake I Googled it, they primarily use that name in Croatia, Serbia and Macedonia.
Although it's Google, so I wouldn't believe it 100%.
Anyway, this Vlatko is someone from Ranger's past and as always - that's never a good thing.
A story as cute as Stephanie Plum. Love that Lula and Grandma. A nice, light, funny story to balance out too much reality in the world!
I have to say I was pleasantly surprised.A lot of it was same old, same old, which annoyed the crap out of me.
BUT...although there were no laugh out loud moments for me, I did crack a few smiles and there were even a couple of snorts.I thought the story line was better than the last half dozen or so books.I liked that Randy Briggs was back.
I liked that there was quite a bit of Ranger and although he's not the same as he was in earlier books, I liked him a lot.If I put the whole Ranger/Steph/Morelli triangle out of my mind, I enjoyed this book.So, am I glad I read it?
So...3 stars is really generous coming from me, because I'm a Babe.
However, if you're a Cupcake(sigh...really?!), this will be a better read for you.
The plot was actually decent in this...funny, but plausible.
I think my deal with the last the several Plum books is that I can no longer 'feel' the emotions of the characters.
I'm sure the first 12 books were not like that for me.
I struggle with how an author can just completely lose the ability to create tension, longing, and character dimension.
*shakes head* It's a light and pretty funny read.
Still funny, same ol' same ol'. The never ending series with characters who don't age and don't make decision about settling. Stephanie is never going to choose between Morelli or Ranger which is too bad since a Stephanie Plum Wedding could be one of her best stories and capers ever. Some good laughs in this one. Grandma Mazur always gets a good laugh. I hope she never dies.
Already looking forward to reading all the negative reviews once again. I can already predict how they'll read.
The plot was better in this one than Takedown Twenty, but any character development Steph made in that one was nonexistent in this one.
Listed in the front matter there was a "Pros and Cons" after the last chapter and i actually got excited thinking we were maybe headed toward the end of The Love Triangle.
I still love Ranger and as always, Grandma makes me smile.
I will keep reading because I just can't quit Ranger and the series IS lighthearted and fun, although it is a bit maddening that it's gone on so long with absolutely no character development.
The same old thing with Stephanie & Co. Exactly the same thing happens--so no surprises. It would be so nice if something different did happen. ANYTHING different!! I don't care what but SOMETHING!! This one lacked a lot of humor, too. Keep hoping so I keep reading.Plus, I'm happy that the last few I've borrowed from the library and haven't spent any money on these books!! Not worth the cash:(
I LOVE THESE BOOKS!
What I especially love about this book is that Janet put the romance aside and focus on the story.
Very exciting!
And, now that Grandma Mazur has seen Ranger naked, I really want to grow up to be her!Reread June 2018 — Back in his Special Forces days Ranger was taken captive and tortured by a Russian psychopath.
Now he’s back with vengeance on his agenda along with his hitman job.
Two birds one can of poison.
Meanwhile, Grandma Mazur is knocking things off her bucket list and one of them is to get Grandma Bella.
Go Grandma Mazur!
It’s been a while since I spent some time with Stephanie, LuLu, Ranger, Morelli, the grandmas and Bob...and boy have I missed them.
Immediately I was drawn into the action, the detailed and vibrant world and the humor.
Oh goodness I could not stop laughing at one of Bob’s antics.
The bucket lists were fantastic and I loved how some of grandma Mazur’s items occurred😹 I always enjoy these Stephanie Plum escapades and how something will occurs to a car or apartment, but I really appreciated how all these different events come together in this story...oh and as always...Team Ranger for the win!!!
#21 in the Stephanie Plum series. There are two basic plots: a group of dying poker players, and Stephanie is supposed to bring in Jimmy Poletti for missing his court date. Someone is trying to kill the short, obnoxious Randy Briggs, Poletti's accountant, but nobody knows who nor why. Meanwhile, Ranger's life is on the line when an attempt on his life is made involving plutonium at the Rangeman offices, following a capture, with his nefarious past catching up with him. Grandma Mazur manages to make significant progress on her bucket list.
I have determined I don't care.
I know some people would disagree with me but, this series never gets old. I can always count on it to put a smile on my face and make me laugh out loud numerous times. It's my go to series when I need a reading pick me up and something that will just be a crazy good time. I adore Stephanie and gang.
I'm not going to say she needs to choose one and settle down, Steph does that and you might as well pack it up and put the series to bed.
I will answer my friends eternal question...Ranger or Morelli?
RANGER ALL THE WAY!
Ranger, dark and mysterious, but willing to let her go out on that limb.
Ranger once again saving the day.
Bob and now a pack of feral chihuahuas lend for some laughs.
Made me laughed-a crying tears laugh-a few times and to me that is the sign of a book worth the time and effort of reading it.
I really wish Evanovich would pick a guy for Plum already.It would be more interesting to see her interact between both of the guys if she was married to one. Other than that, seems like these books are just sounding the same. Hope maybe soon she will decide.
