https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21251017-turn-on-the-heat
(Hard Case Crime Book 131)
Mr. Smith seems to know very little about Mrs. Lintig, other than the fact that he wants Bertha to notify him as soon as the agency has found her.
Bertha assures the client that Donald, her chief investigator, is a brainy little devil who will have no trouble tracking down the missing woman.Donald drives up to Oakview and discovers that Mrs. Lintig disappeared in the midst of a local scandal that occurred shortly after the First World War. He husband, a prominent local eye doctor, ran off with his secretary and was never seen again.
I think the Cool and Lam books are not for me.Turn on the Heat, much like the Cool and Lam novels I've read before it, felt like a poor mans mixture of Perry Mason (this book was written by the same author) and a generic P.I pulp.
The Cool and Lam detective agency are hired by a mysterious client to locate his estranged wife who hasn't been seen in twenty one years.
On the surface, Turn on the Heat looked to be a winner.
I enjoyed the banter (as always) between the colorful Bertha Cool and the debonair Donald Lam but unfortunately the book just didn't connect with me.
This was my second Bertha Cool, Donald Lam mystery and again I really enjoyed it. The mystery is a real page turner while Bertha and Donald keep it a light and fun read. I look forward to reading more in the series. Recommended.
This didn't capture my attention the way I thought it would.
I love these early american crime novels. An unusual divorce case surfaces in a country town and brings Bertha Cool and Donald Lam into action. There is none of the gun totting cops, as in 87th Precinct novels, but lots of fast action and a very involved plot, bringing on a somewhat contrived ending.Good honest entertainment with no social message. I liked it.
Meh.Once you've discovered Bertha Cool and Donald Lam, there's not much else to enjoy about these stories. This is somewhat of a by-numbers, dialogue heavy mystery featuring characters Cool and Lam are professionally and personally removed from. So, it's as interesting as our protagonist find it and their heart's not really into work on this one. I love their relationship, which is more adversarial than in The Knife Slipped, but still. It's a bit of a slickly written, albeit empty shell.
ENGLISH: Donald Lam is a detective that takes ruthless vengeance against those who punch him on the nose or give him a black eye.
He falls in love easily, and to Bertha Cool's amazement, makes the girl fall in love with him, although the girl is different in each novel.The plot of this novel is a little more rational than the plot of the first novel in the series.ESPAÑOL: El título español de esta novela es "Donald Lam, detective".
Donald Lam es un detective que se venga sin piedad de los que le golpean en la nariz o le ponen un ojo morado.
Having read various reviews of the Cool & Lam series, particularly the favorable ratings given by Goodreads author and reviewer extraordinaire, JT, I decided to jump in with this book.
He's very smart, clever enough to figure out a complex problem while suffering some physical abuse at the hands of a larger, stronger (just about everyone is bigger than the diminutive Lam) adversary, and endlessly patient with Bertha Cool.
For the life of me, I can't figure out why on earth someone as competent and resourceful as Lam would put up with the narcissistic, self-serving, greedy Cool, much less work for her.
The second Lam and Cool book I've read. This is the book that was issued at the time (circa 1940) as the second in the series. the other was rejected at the time and just recently issued. Again - a good book that will satisfy lovers of noir, but what's interesting, and perhaps insightful into the craft of being a professional writer, is that the dynamic between Lam and Cool is very much different. For me not better or worse but decidedly and intentionally different.
Det här andra boken i Cool and Lam-serien. Jag har inte läst den första eftersom jag inte har den i min ägo (än) och efter att ha läst den här blir jag lite mer sugen på att läsa den första. Vi märker att Bertha och Donald har inte har jobbat ihop så länge och här är det fortfarande Bertha som äger firman, hon försöker bestämma lite mer och lägga sig i mer vad Donald har för sig än hon har gjort i de andra böckerna i serien som jag har läst. En trevlig serie!
Let's check out Team Cool and Lam!HOOK - 2 stars: "I opened the door marked 'Bertha Cool-Confidential Investigations-Entrance.' Elsie Brand looked up from her notes and...said, 'Go on in.
She's waiting." Standard opening for the genre: a Mr. Smith is looking for someone and has arrived to hire Bertha.
4 stars for Bertha and Donald.
Here, that's the big, and really the only, draw."Case of the Stuttering Bishop" - 1936 - 2.2"Case of the Duplicate Daughter" - 1960 - 2.4"Case of the Phantom Fortune" - 1964 - 3.2"The Monkey Murder" - 1939 - 3.4"Turn On the Heat" - 1940 - 2.4Erle Stanley Gardner author average -2.72
Turn on the Heat is one of the earliest books in Erle Stanley Gardner's Cool and Lam series, originally published under the name AA Fair.
It starts out with Lam being the stranger in a small town on his own ferreting out old secrets about a twenty year old disappearance and the vague and minute clues about what happened to the woman.
It's not a bang-bang shoot-em-up tale so much as it's a clever wit against wit tale with each party taking what they know and "turning up the heat" on the other.
A. Fair...because writing all those "Perry Mason" stories had to be kind of dull) thanks to Hard Case Crime.
According to the back of the book, "Turn on the Heat" (the second Cool and Lam mystery, from 1940 with love) was the book that Gardner/Fair wrote to replace "The Knife Slipped," which publishers didn't care for.
"The Knife Slipped," of course, was my first exposure to the Cool and Lam mysteries.
Unlike many Hard Case Crime books, this one is only slightly lurid.
I'm hoping to see more of Cool and Lam from Hard Case Crime in the near future.
Loved it. Another classic read.
Taken by and large, there was a lot of fire, and someone was due to get his fingers burned."This is one of a series featuring Bertha Cool, who owns the Cool Detective Agency, and Donald Lam, who works for her.
About 9/10 of the way in, I realized that it was never going to be explained why the bad cop was trying to stop the doctor from becoming the mayor or what was in it for him, but I didn't mind all that much.
I won't read more in the Cool and Lam series, but this was decent enough that I'll probably try one of the Perry Mason books.
With the recent publishing of The Knife Slipped, by Hard Case Crime, this is now the 3rd entry in the Cool & Lam mystery series.
Which leads them once again into the seedy underbelly of local political elections and vice.https://youtu.be/F4Ab8n3rwLgThe above link is for the failed pilot to the Cool & Lam television series that includes Erle Stanley Gardner's admission that it is his personal favorite of the three mystery series (The D.
The pilot is based on the novel I am currently reading and reviewing...
If you like old TV adaptations Amazon Prime also currently has the Jim Hutton/Ed Asner NBC Pilot for The D.
#2 in the Bertha Cool and Donald Lam series.
This 1940 series entry was authored by A.A. Fair long since revealed to be a pseudonym of Erle Stanley Gardner (of Perry Mason fame).
Bertha Cool and Donald Lam series - Donald and Bertha are hired to find a woman who disappeared more than twenty years earlier, after an ugly divorce case involving her EENT doctor husband and his nurse.
Donald has to be his usual tricky self in order to discover the truth and extricate himself and Bertha from the trouble they're in.
I'm sort of a mystery freak, at least at times.
Erle Stanley Gardner (writing here under pen-name A.A. Fair) has got to be the best mystery plot maker there ever was.
He is especially great at having his hero take control of the events of the story by creative, clever, and usually waaay out of the box actions that leave you wondering how the heck ol' Erle could ever come up with that.The protagonist in this series is Donald Lam, a short, thin, delicate detective who works for Bertha Cool, a stout, money grubbing, tough broad who is always giving Donald enough rope to, she soon finds out, hang them both.This story is a classic, and for those who have read Gardner's "Perry Mason" series, this series is just as good.
This is one of the early Donald Lam - Bertha Cool novels, and the ones I've read are all later ones. This gives some more feel to the Lam-Cool relationship, which is already established in the later novels. I especially enjoyed that.The story itself is full of twists and turns. Again, what's not to like about that!
A. Fair...because writing all those "Perry Mason" stories had to be kind of dull) thanks to Hard Case Crime.
According to the back of the book, "Turn on the Heat" (the second Cool and Lam mystery, from 1940 with love) was the book that Gardner/Fair wrote to replace "The Knife Slipped," which publishers didn't care for.
"The Knife Slipped," of course, was my first exposure to the Cool and Lam mysteries.
Unlike many Hard Case Crime books, this one is only slightly lurid.
I'm hoping to see more of Cool and Lam from Hard Case Crime in the near future.
This became the 2nd book in the long-running Lam and Cool mystery series after the publisher rejected the much superior The Knife Slipped.
Donald Lam is handed an assignment to search for a woman who has been missing for twenty-one years.
The questions of how the husband and wife went missing, why they separated, and how their lives played out turns into a labyrinthine investigation that spans the California coast.
They all seemed vaguely one-note.The best scenes are the banter between Donald Lam and his boss Bertha Cool.
The author plays Donald's quick thinking and earnestness against Bertha's greed.
I first became acquainted with the Cool & Lam series by Perry Mason's Erle Stanley Gardner (writing under the name of A.A. Fair) when I read the newly discovered (and previously unpublished) The Knife Slipped...
No easy task, but I finally found a beat up first edition of the first book, The Bigger They Come, for cheap on eBay. Then, using a list from the internet I did not realize was flawed, I found a cheap copy of what I thought was the second "published" book in the series, Gold Comes in Bricks.
From now on I will be reading the Cool & Lam books in their real order.
If you like the pulp fiction type mysteries, then I don't see why you wouldn't already be into the Hard Case Crime series, but if you haven't started, then I highly recommend you do!With it being such a quick mystery novel, I'll be brief with my description and review (wouldn't want to spoil anything).
Knowing that Lam and Cool are a series, I'll definitely look for more books about them!Overall, if you're a fan of the Hard Case Crime series, then this will be right up your alley.
Middle-aged, overweight, and prone to profanity, Bertha Cool keeps one eye on crime and the other on her bank account.
Her operative Donald Lam, smart, cynical, and diminutive, spends Bertha's money freely as he keeps her in the dark about his case.
In this, the second published book in the series, Donald goes searching for a wife who disappeared twenty years before.
Fair, the pen name Erle Stanley Gardner used for the Cool-Lam series, is a fun and propulsive writer.
Evelyn Waugh once said that Gardner was the best writer in America.
Thank you, Hard Case Crime for bringing back Bertha Cool and Donald Lam.
Books like these are one of the main reason for my love of reading.
My tastes changed over time, but I still come back for more time and again.Although I read a lot of Erle Stanley Gardner in this phase of mine.
I never did read a thing under his pen name, A.A. Fair.
So this is my first Cool and Lam book.
Not your average dicks, Bertha Cool runs the show.
When a Mr. Smith wants to find a woman that's been out of circulation for 20 years, things start to unwind in all directions.
This is a very intricately woven murder mystery,but due to its age, in order to really enjoy it,you must ignore many of the archaic scenariosin it, such as how little an amount of moneygets you a hotel room, a dinner, or even a bribe;or how quickly an appointment or reactioncan come to fruition. All unrealistic, but thecontrived mystery itself is not too bad.It's typical Erle Stanley Gardner writing so ifyou are okay with that, then read this one.
this book by Earl Stanley Gardner writing under his pseudonim is marginal. HIs Perry Mason books are very enjoyable and well written. this one about Bertha Cool and Donald Lam reads as though it were written by someone just staring out. Skip it and read Perry Mason.
My first Cool & Lam book (or indeed Erle Stanley Gardner) and it was terrific. I hope to read some more of the series, starting with the two Hard Case also put out. There’s an unaired TV pilot on YouTube I hope to watch also.
