https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/684871.The_Islandman
But it was such a different type of reading experience from any I'd ever encountered that my sense of Tomas' world, however vague, wound up being a huge asset.Tomas O'Cronan is a storyteller - an oral storyteller.
What an amazing privilege to get such a personal sense (because what makes O'Cronan an amazing storyteller is that he pours such amazing vulnerability into his stories) of life in a place so - hate to use the word here - foreign from our own.
Майлз в «Поющих Лазаря» несколько ее демонизировал, но надо понимать, что он скорее был против хайпа, вокруг книги вспыхнувшего, — ну и первый перевод ему, возможно, не понравился (это издание — второй).Что же у нас в сухом остатке, если смотреть на «Островитянина» не глазами гэльского возрождения, а иначе?
Больше того — они самостоятельно ведут международную торговлю (омаров прямо французам продают), рыболовных квот не соблюдают (а они, как мы знаем, тогда существовали).
Поэтому что уж тут удивительного, что правительство даже Свободного государства (и впоследствии республики) никак не могло смириться с таким стихийно-контрарианским самоуправством и независимостью, и общину в 1953 году ликвидировали под предлогом «трудных условий жизни».
Or the fact it is near April 15th here in the USA, tax day, and there was something about the way people in the story hid their cows and pigs from the tax-man so as not to have to pay a tax upon them?
In any event, this is not an UNBIASED review, but an eminently biased one, because despite the slow pace in places, I enjoyed this story immensely by the 'last calf of an old cow' and would recommend anyone interested in Irish history read it and view our history not through the eyes of a high bard, but a fairly ordinary person.
This is a compelling book about life on Great Blasket Island in the late nineteenth century and into the twentieth.
It's an important book because that way of life is gone, and no one lives on Great Blasket anymore.
O'Crohan shows us many details and activities and practices, so that we get a genuine sense of his life and times.
The chore of living is daunting much of the time, and the sorrow of loss keeps expanding, but O'Crohan is rather matter-of-fact about it.
While the writing is not brilliant, and the crafting isn't noteworthy, O'Crohan's attention and memory draw a fully fleshed picture for his readers.
This autobiography is a wonderful record of the Blaskets dialect of the Irish language, as well as a powerful account of an austere life.
The Blaskets Irish, though difficult, was not insurmountable, even to an inexperienced reader like me.
This was helped by an edition that edited out some of the more difficult and dialectical words, which were replaced by modern spelling with the original placed in a footnote.
The description of the author’s marriage receives about a page of text; his wife’s death gets a few lines.
Some Irish readers term this a "poor mouth" book -- a woe-is-me, my-life-was-terribly-difficult tome that teachers recommended as "good for you." I read it -- and really enjoyed it -- as a window into the kind of world inhabited by my Quinn ancestors before they left Ireland in 1832. Americans are used to frontier tales of Abe Lincoln "ciphering" with charcoal on the blade of a shovel and the Ingalls family living in their sod house in the Dakotas. The Islandman allows us to see a bit of what came before for our immigrant families.
A great history of the Blasket Islands, told by a man with a witty and fearless voice.
The Islandman is such a tale, regaling a unique history while capturing one small moment, never to return.The lives of those upon Great Blasket Isle off the shore of Ireland is told with love and honesty in a stark poetry, translated from the native Irish by Robin Flower in a manner that exudes character and liveliness while not stinting on the tragedy to befall those around Tomas O'Crohan, or the author himself.
He sets out to tell the story of his people “for the like of us will never be again”, then carries the reader through the excitement fishing in small boat on a big sea, the pride of working hard even when bone-tired, the joys of a close-knit community and the heartbreak of loss.
I do recommend that you keep an Oxford English Dictionary near at hand to check the historical meanings of words such as baulk, peeler, lilt, and bonham.
And if you can -- read it by the sea where you can hear the surf pound a rocky shore and taste the salt on your lips.
Pon on your soul!For off the coast of Western Ireland near Dingle, Co. Kerry lies jutting stones and fertile islands in the great drink.
They were very successful at making a living off the sea and land.
Instead, every man and woman used to carry a creel on their backs — that is, if the woman wasn’t a spoilt pet or a rogue of a woman who would prefer to starve rather than do a decent day’s work.” O’Crohan is the islander and our guide and a good one at that, “May God preserve all the souls I have written about...” Pon on your sou, Tomás- go raibh maith agat.
Written that a record would live, 'for the like of us will never be again', this is an amazing picture of life on the Great Blasket. O Crohan takes us from his birth in 1856 through childhood, youth, marriage, and old age; with a dry humor and matter-of-fact acceptance of the cruelties that are dealt him. Even in this translation from the original Irish, there is such a wonderful turn of phrase that the reader is transported back in time and place.
It is refreshing to read stories in language people spoke naturally every day. There is no artifice, irony, criticism - just what was observed and said from the heart. The times and events from long past in the words of those who lived it give a realism and honesty to each story. You know the experiences are now past and that times have changed permanently. But also that the current Irish culture is grounded in these events and ways of thinking.
I spent a few hours on Great Blasket Island last spring, a beautiful wild place abandoned since 1953, the year I was born. I love the simple, poetic language and stories of Tomas O Chrionann, told in his native Gaelic language, for peopling this wild landscape, for sharing a way of living, incredibly harsh and beautiful, that no longer exists.
A wonderful, touching story about growing up in the Blasket Islands of Ireland during the turn of the century. Translated from Gaelic to English and fascinating about the hardships of the Irish people and the Irish language.
Interesting and honest account of living in the Blasket. The famine and the first world war are barely mentioned as they had little impact on his life. Simple account of a time long gone.
/ Many were they whose cities he saw, whose minds he learned of, / many the pains he suffered in his spirit on the wide sea.” The entire rest of that ancient poem serves as a commemoration, or a memorial, of the heroic deeds of Odysseus, a maritime warrior not unlike the assiduous Tomás, who lives on an island similar to the Great Blasket.
While I cannot say for certain, I doubt that I would have had the same appreciation for the Great Blasket Island and its culture without Tomás’s epic presentation of his community in The Islandman.
True to form, there has been plenty of arguing over how well this represents Tomas O'Crohan, as it was edited by some other guy and then translated into English by yet another guy.
The Islandman is certainly not the first or last authority on "what life was like" on Great Blasket, because life was quite different for everyone who lived there depending on their circumstances--their gender, or when they lost their parents, or their connections to the mainland, or whether they left to America, or whether they came back.
What an amazing book of a time and people who have gone, never to return, and of events and a way of life that will never be repeated.
The author, who wrote in Irish, which he learned to read and write for himself, uses a plain and simple style of prose (crefully tranlated to English in this edition) to describe people and events which he considered ordinary but which seem to us quite extraordinary.
And they had ten children together and we are told almost nothing of them except that the author outlived most of them and his wife.
The author lived his entire life off the Kerry coast on the Blasket Islands and spoke and wrote only Irish for the duration (with a wee bit of English occasionally thrown in for the benefit of outsiders).
There is no literary pretension here whatsoever, though the humor and wit of these inhabitants of the wind-blasted islands just off the Dingle Peninsula comes through loud and clear, as does the hardship, grief, and occasional joy of a subsistence lifestyle lived in necessary harmony with the rhythms of earth and sea.
The Blasket Islands fascinated me when I was traveling Ireland a month ago and this particular resident, very much so.
It was written in Irish and translated to English by Robin Flower.
Sometimes Tomás’ expressions don’t translate all that well but that just adds flavor to the story.
People lived secluded and difficult lives out there but, in the end, I think they were happier for it.
the last of them were sent to Massachusetts as Ireland didn’t want to have to care for approximately 25 people!
Tomá died in 1937 on Great Blasket.
This is a fascinating book about life on The Blasket Islands off the Dingle Peninsula as told by a native.
As the author states in the book he wrote this book "to set down the character of the people about me so that some record of us might live after us, for the like of us will never be again," I bought this book at the Blasket Centre near Dingle, and was immediately hooked.
This is a great book, with story after story of the people of The Blasket, and a way of life long gone.
We learned of the Blasket Islands when visiting Ireland, driving the Dingle peninsula. The Islands are no longer inhabited, but the OPW visitor center conveys the life of the Islanders, especially introducing the storytellers who lived there. This author was a simple man living a hard life at the end of an era. Details like getting his first shoes - ever - as a teen, even tho not yet married. And an uncomplicated faith ‘God is as close as the door.’ I plan to read other memoirs from the Islands - someone said somewhere that their main export was memoirs!
I was reading this and the diary of Anaïs Nin concurrently and I couldn't help but notice how the story of an insular lad getting his first pair of britches was a million times more interesting than a well-travelled, cultured woman carefully detailing the times that men have told her she is beautiful. Thoroughly enjoyable if your idea of a good time would be listening to some auld lad telling you a few stories about himself over a pint in a pub.
Oh how I wish I could read the original Irish for this book! The Islandman, who is the author, takes us so close to a unique life, but I want to get even closer. Unlike anything else. I found this book in a tiny bookstore in Dingle and took a chance on it. I see I am not alone in thinking it was an inspired find. Now I must go back to that bookstore (5000 miles away) and see what other treasures are hidden there. And try to decide if it's too late for me to learn the Irish!
This was a challenging read. Very interesting, but a bumpy ride. The translation, punctuation and pronouns were often awkward. Tomas has a fascinating story to tell, but you have to be committed to follow it. I enjoyed reading it after visiting Blasket Island. I had pictures and other sources to read along with it.
I bought this book in college and it's sat on my shelf for 40 years. Finally, I've gotten around to reading it and it was a wonderful look at a time and culture that seems lost. O Crohan's dedication to maintaining the Irish language is palpable amidst his hard life as a fisherman and salvager, father and comrade in his small community. We are lucky to have memoirs like these.
What a fascinating, beautiful book! Even in English translation, the poetry and color of the Irish language comes across. Tomas O’Crohan was a great observer of the life he was living and those with whom he shared it. He tells the stories of his life with great insight and wit. This book has inspired me to read the other Blasket writers.
A fine read, being the memoirs of living on Great Blasket Island in the 1800s.From pg. 244: “I have written minutely of much that we did, for it was my wish that somewhere there should be a memorial of it all, and I have done my best to set down the character of the people about me so that some record of us might live after us, for the likes of us will never be again. ”
A Great InsightA very interesting and enjoyable book packed with humorous and sad stories. Thank you to Tomas and then to the translators without whom I would have missed out on a treasure.
Read for class. Not reviewing.
