https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/618849.The_Seventh
Even worse, the money Parker was holding after the robbery of the ticket offices of a football game is gone, and the cops show up minutes later.Parker was responsible for holding the cash for his six partners, and he’s not sure if one of them has double-crossed him, or if someone else has ripped them all off.
Considering that Parker will kill anyone who gets in his way when he’s in his usual state of unemotional professionalism, getting him mad is a very bad idea.This is one of the books that plays around with the Parker formula.
He's always so effortlessly creative when it comes to weaving a plot and he makes this book the best Parker novel so far in the series.
One of the things that really makes this one standout (aside from having an even faster pace than the others) is the fact that some of the obstacles that push the story forward is caused by Parker's mistakes.
But he fucks up a couple times here and it's interesting seeing him dedicated to fixing the situation.So far, Stark's Parker novels are pretty dependable and enjoyable and The Seventh is the best one so far.
What a cast, sure, but it’s pretty loosely based on the book, and Parker—played by former football great halfback Jim Brown—isn’t very much like the Parker I have been reading.
Afterwards, Parker gets together, as he usually does after a successful scheme, with a woman, until things die down and they can make the split.
One thing Stark does that is interesting: Most of every book is told from the perspective of Parker, but at some point he changes so we can see things from another perspective.
another thing i love about the parker series: b/c stark knows that parker will live to fight another day, he doesn't have to invest all he's got in one particular caper.
the latter's actually kind of jarring in that crime fiction has conditioned us to expect some kind of deviation from what was planned -- when it all just rides down that straight line we kick back and appreciate the confidence and bowling-ball sized testes richard stark displays.
we know parker's gotta live (shit, we're only on book #7 of #24), but the illusion of mortality's gotta be believable or the book becomes wallpaper.
The reader (contemporary reader, the reader reading this series when the books first came out might have had some doubts about the resolution, the flippant way that Stark allows characters to be killed off made it possibly possible that someone might think that any one of the new Parker novels could be the last one, and that Parker would finally not get out of whatever jam he found himself in) knows that Parker isn't going to die, that he's going to live to pull another heist, sleep some other woman, sit in a dark room staring at nothing my himself and get angry at people who waste his time.
Days later, Parker leaves his apartment to get beer and cigarettes and returns to find his girl murdered and the money missing.
Instead of pulling off a heist, Parker is primarily occupied with figuring out who took his money and killed his girl.
While you knew Parker was going to get at least some of his money back, the mystery man angle spiced things up, especially when other members of Parker's team started dying and/or turning on him.Another solid effort from Richard Stark and another great book for noir fans.
Parker, of course, isn’t one of them.So another story where Parker plays detective, but this one actually shows the limits of the character in this form.
Parker is just too blunt a force of nature to carefully wheedle out useful information from people, which is really what’s needed in a detective novel.
Westlake to be fair does realise that limitation, sending Parker to actually front off against the lead police investigator and use a combination of implied threats and demands to get information out of him.
But even though it showed Parker at his most quietly brutal, it didn’t really work for me.
Parker is lying low, in his usual way with a woman, after a successful heist where his team of seven has stolen gate receipts from a non-conference college football game. When he goes out for cigarettes and beer after three days, he returns to find her skewered, and someone has grabbed the loot. Naturally, Parker thinks it's someone from the crew and starts his investigation, but the perp is someone else. Clever title, but I prefer the capers to the aftermath.
Short and to the point. Like going to see a movie. Total entertainment. Tough guy stuff. What's not to like?
The setup is great too, typical cold, incisive, nobody-trusts-each-other underbelly where Parker is so great at outwitting everyone.
The problem with this book is that it kind of falls over itself in the last act, where Donald Westlake feels obligated to introduce every member of the crew and sort out the plot in less than 50 pages.
So it becomes kind of a parody of a Parker novel in the last stretch: short, choppy chapters that display tough guy action without any enticing details.
Another "good" entry into the Parker bio-files, though "good" may not be the right word...as it were.Parker is an interesting (there's that word I over use) character.
I often wonder why I like these books and what that says about me.
Parker is a thief.
He'll keep his word and do what he says, but don't cross him.This book is a slight departure from most of the other Parker ventures into larceny and mayhem.
No here the "score" has already taken place and we join Parker just as everything...well let us say as the solid waste strikes the rotary impeller.From there an excellent, fast and very bloody story takes off.Enjoy...so to speak.Recommended.
4  stars. Entertaining. Surprising things. I laughed several times. It starts slow but good later.Authors: Here’s a great example of how to create a stupid (but smart) character who does wacko things. This guy really made the story. Had me laughing with surprise. I liked being in his head when he was thinking why he had to follow Parker. Because if he wasn’t always behind Parker, Parker might get behind him. He would have been smarter just to leave town, but he doesn’t - for weird reasons, and I
He would have been smarter just to leave town, but he doesn’t - for weird reasons, and I bought it.Cops are investigating the murder of a woman in Parker’s room and also the robbery that Parker was behind.
He partners with different guys for different jobs in each book.If you are new to the series, I suggest reading the first three and then choose among the rest.
The rest can be read as stand alones.The first three books in order:								4 stars.
The Outfit.Read these two in order:5 stars.
Butcher’s Moon (Bk #16)Read these four in order:4 ½ stars.
This story is not so much about the heist but the aftermath when Parker finds his "girlfriend" very dead and the cash he kept in the apartment is gone.
This book is about Parker finding out what happened with the money and the girl, especially in that order, and about the seven fellows with whom he did do the heist.
Who took the money??And excellent written thriller that easily qualifies as a detective story albeit that Parker skills of detection are not that great.
Also titled "Seventh"ebook with Hoopla audioParker screws up in this one; more reality. These 'Parker stories' aren't fantastic, but they are sell well written that the read is very enjoyable without author condescension. My source for these stories are paperbacks available from 'openlibrary/internetarchive' many thanks to the contributors.
There are few surprises in the series which is why it is almost a trust-worthy no money back sure thing that you are getting your value out of these novels.So yeah, its almost genius like in how Donald Westlake (Richard Stark) writes these perfect narrations on an on-going basis.
But alas, he does and we the reader are thankful in a world that is falling apart - at the very least we can expect another Parker novel that will again say "things are alright in the heist world."
I love the momentum of these stories, the clean style, and the sheer relentlessness of the Parker character.
Plus, there's something subtly strange about all of the books I've read thus far in the series.
I always picture them taking place on cold, gray Fall days, with skeletal trees and steam rising from vents, and this bleakness creeps into my gut as I'm reading.
All of a sudden I find myself thinking, "Man, these are some soulless motherfuckers, completely driven by fleshly desires," and then I think, "Well, isn't that all of us?" and then I need a drink.
Westlake picked the perfect nom de plume for these books.
The heist itself is an afterthought in the seventh Parker novel because all the problems come after the fact.
After the robbery goes flawlessly, Parker is in charge of guarding the loot until time comes to divvy up with his partners, but when he steps out for ten minutes to buy beer and cigarettes, he steps back in to find the money gone.
What follows is typical Parker as problem solver--up until the point when Parker's judgment fails him and makes a colossally brazen and unnecessary gambit.
Sometimes, in fact, he can be quite stupid.
Character driven, tightly plotted, ageless authenticity, detailed without dragging, this is how it's done. Someone somewhere should be teaching this book. It's a master class. I can't wait to read another Parker book.
When I am working on a difficult writing project, these kinds of book ease the stress... This one's pretty good. Part II, ch. 4 -- all dialogue -- show that Stark is really gain mastery of the form..., here at age 33.
"When he didn’t get any answer the second time he knocked, Parker kicked the door in.”
Sometimes it's the heist planning, sometimes it's the heist itself, sometimes it's the aftermath, and sometimes it's all about complications with the crew or with the antagonists getting the upper hand.In The Seventh, which begins with Parker kicking in an apartment door, it starts right off with the antagonist having the upper hand along with the loot from the heist.
Although we do get a nice backstory recap in summary form later in the novel (Starklake was so confident in this story that he felt he could skip a cool heist about a stadium robbery!) So the progression here is Parker trying to figure out and find who stole the loot Parker was safeguarding for the crew.
I liked this one.
It's a simple story, but like other Stark (aka Donald Westlake) novels it's the way the story is told that makes the difference.
As it opens, the crime is already done.
Parker and six others make off with the ticket sales from a college football game without a hitch.
Parker's hiding out with a young girl letting the heat die down.
Comes back and the girl is dead in the bed, with a sword run right through her into the wall behind.
Now how do you not want to keep reading with an opening like that?
A great one!
In his introduction, Luc Sante says that the books "all but read themselves." That's pretty good, and true--I read the first 40 pages on a Friday night and the rest on Saturday morning.
This one is especially good and the first in the series (I think) in which Parker laughs.
Of course, it has a perfect last sentence.Ever hear mathematicians go on about "the beauty of calculus?" The Parker books seem to be beautiful for the same reasons: there's perfect economy, without a wasted syllable, and all the complexities move and work out towards an elegant solution.
This one is a little different from the other Parker books...
it doesn't focus on the heist (which is a piece of cake), but rather the aftermath, where everything goes 'sour' (lots of 'sweet' and 'sour' references) Much like the other books, we get to know the players just enough to have some feeling about them before they step off the stage..
The title and ending were both very clever, I thought, in keeping with the fact that it's the 7th book.
I would have liked to hear a bit more about how Parker's 'off duty' life fell apart (something that happened at the end of the last book and got only a passing mention), but maybe next time.
Three stars because the writing is excellent. Apt descriptions, most often consisting of just one adjective (such as buildings "acned" by air conditioning units), bordering on the poetic. But the stupidity of leading man Parker, setting himself up to get killed or caught time and again, simply beggars belief. Also, it's too much like a James Bond movie where the hero successfully dodges everything that's thrown at him without ever missing himself. Pulp, very readable, but pulp.
I have never read so many books in one series, apart from Goosebumps. The tagline on the cover is all wrong - the stadium heist was the lead-up to this story and was briefly described. It is actually about Parker tracking down the loot which was stolen from him a few day later. I don't like how his giant hands receive less and less page-time as the series progresses, but he is still as bad-a as ever. "Richard Stark" has my absolute favorite writing style, and his candid descriptions of people are unparalleled.
The heist of a college football game receipts goes perfect.
All Parker had to do was lay low for a few days with the loot and the guns.
Parker becomes the prey of two hunters; one is a cop out to solve a murder and regain the loot; the other a narcissistic killer in this noir thriller.The interesting thing about this one is that the proceeds fron the football game was to go to a charity.
The seven man heist team is willing to steal from a charity to line their own pockets with easy money.
Another one that mixes up the recipe. The job goes off without a hitch, but when the boodle is stolen from Parker he finally loses his cool (spoiler: Parker doesn't like to lose his cool).
Until the heat dies down and the team can reassemble for the seven-way split, Parker keeps the money and the guns at his woman’s apartment.
Approaching a job, Parker slips into an asexual mode with no interest but the upcoming heist.
A member of his team has set him up with Ellie.
He returns to find Ellie impaled on a sword, and some of the guns along with all the money gone.
He sets out to make things right.Seven principles and the cops on their trail create a large cast that can sustain a considerable body count.
And then there’s the poor schmuck who killed Emma and stumbled onto the money.
Parker had only left the apartment for ten minutes to get cigarettes and beer.
Then he was to meet with the other six to split the proceeds.Now Ellen wasn't answering the door, When he kicked it open, he found Ellen dead, run through with one of the swords from the wall and pinned to the bed's headboard.
As he came out of the apartment building, someone took a shot at him.
Parker knew then they were dealing with an amateur.
If it had been one of the others, they would have been gone or played innocent.Now Parker was enraged.
The money became secondary and the guy's death the most important.
