https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/352.The_Notebooks_of_Lazarus_Long
Make no mistake-- I love Heinlein, I adore Heinlein, I think the man is a god in the genre but a spastically snarling part of me loathes Lazarus Long.
Starship Troopers and the thirty-second bomb I salute; Stranger in a Strange Land I shed an ironically pathetic tear with; and so goes with most of his work, preachiness and all.
When it comes down to it, any work of Heinlein is a pamphlet shouting "Freedom!
As much as I despise the man, let me hold up Lazarus Long as a paragon of a lost society.
Nicely done with some illuminations. Lazarus Long is a character from Robert A. Heinlein. This book is a collection of comments from him. "Place your clothes and weapons where you can find them in the dark".
Now the wiki page pretty much sums this book up - its short - mainly because it was made up from articles and comments made in other publications which were attributed to Lazarus Long rather in the same fictitious vein as the Book Of Counted Sorrows by Dean Koontz.
They are an interesting mix of comments and observations however like all these books of quotes from fictitious characters - you never know how much is really in the style of the character and how much is reflected by the author who is just using the character as a mouth piece for their views, I guess we will never know.
This edition of The Notebooks of Lazarus Long is eloquently illustrated with calligraphy to add a luxury to this wealth of good advice.When I first began reading Heinlein, I was a child of no more than eleven.
This, like the book it is collected from (Time Enough for Love), and other of his works played major parts in shaping my personal philosophy, mode of thinking, and subsequently myself into who I am today.
That said, I hold a strong bias toward most things Heinlein.
I love this collection of quotes and hold its advice overall to be sound and oft humorous and entertaining.
You'll find most of this in "Time Enough for Love" & other books.
Having all that preaching together in one place is just too much.
Lazarus is the oldest man alive & while he's entertaining, he's overbearing & full of himself.
After "Time Enough for Love" he was a major figure in other books & it all got to be too much for me.
Too little story, too much 'father figure' preaching.I absolutely love a lot of the sayings attributed to Lazarus Long, though.
They're witty & very often true.
I'm rather ambivalent towards most of Heinlein's writing, but this collection of quotes is an entertaining and quick read."A poet who reads his verse in public may have other nasty habits.""It is better to copulate than never."and one that is rather timely:"You can have peace. Or you can have freedom. Don't ever count on having both at once."(reminiscent of a favorite of mine, attributed to Benjamin Franklin: "Those who would give up essential liberty to purchase a little temporary safety deserve neither liberty nor safety").
I loved this! Some of the things said are funny, or simple, or insightful, or anything else! Heinlein has been one of those authors I hear frequently about from my father and I am so glad he has lent me this illustrated copy (illustrations by D.F.Vassallo). I shall go and buy my own copy to keep and flick through when I need.Beautifully illustrated and a wonderful collection of thoughts from the character of Lazarus Long.
Mind you, before you purchase this, you need to know that it is not a novel, but a collection of quotes and such from Lazarus Long, hence the title, although given its length, it should be 'notebook', not 'notebooks'. Some of these quotes you can find in various books with the character, but this book does come in handy because there's some pretty clever quotes here.
A selection of quotes from one of Heinlein’s most famous characters. The profound ones are few, the humorous ones even more sparse. Most just sound good, but are just pithy and lacking substance.
This is the collection of the interstitial quotes from Time Enough for Love, nicely illuminated. It's nice to see calligraphy is not a lost art. It's a good resource to have for Lazarus Long quotes.
Mr. Heinlein and Mr. Long are back in the forefront of my gray matter.
Not sure why but I know the "solution".
Library!
Some of my favorite obvervations by the (fictional?) Lazarus Long are: By the data to date, there is only one animal in the Galaxy dangerous to man--man himself.
So he must supply his own indispensable competition.
He has no enemy to help him.Men are more sentimental than women.
Don’t let that stop you; if you don’t bet, you can’t win.Any priest or shaman must be presumed guilty until proved innocent.Always listen to experts.
They’ll tell you what can’t be done and why.
Quotes from 'Notebooks' appear just about everywhere. Entire copies of this book are available on many websites. The best thing about the quotes is their original context... which this volume strips away entirely.The contents of this book are merely an excerpt from Heinlein's 'Time Enough For Love,' the magnum opus that gives us the most complete view available of Heinlein's beloved protagonist Lazarus Long. Read as coming from that romantically pragmatic survivalist curmudgeon (can any one person fit that description?), the quotes in 'Notebooks' provide a great nostalgic glimpse into LL's travels across time and space.
this is a collection of aphorisms in a special edition illuminated by calligrapher D. F. Vassallo. these bon mots at times reminded me of Twain, like expecting climate and getting weather. I like the nerdier ones like specialization being for insects and "anyone who cannot cope with mathematics is not fully human. At best he is a tolerable subhuman who has learned to wear shoes..."
"History does not record anywhere at any time a religion that has a rational basis. Religion is not strong enough to stand up to the unknown without help." - Robert Heinlein via Lazarus LongAmazing collection of wisdom and beautiful book if you get a chance to add one to your collection you should. This edition is amazingly illustrated.
This is required reading for any fan of Heinlein, the Future History series, and the character of Lazarus Long. All sorts of bit sof wisdom and quotes from a variety of books, including a lot from "Time Enough for Love", which is one of my favorites. Very amusing, and tells you a lot about the author.
It is a compilation of sayings of Lazarus Long who is an immortal from the works of Robert Heinlein. This book has many of the sayings illustrated by a master calligrapher. From time to time, I do enjoy reading the sayings of others. My hopes are that some wisdom that they impart can make my own journey a little richer.
I picked this up at a coffeeshop, not knowing what to expect. There are a lot of funny/interesting statements here, but I get the feeling that I would appreciate this more if I read any of the other works be Heinlein. Apparently, this notebook has something to do with his science fiction series.
Okay, but I found out I had already read it."The Notebooks of Lazarus Long" is also included in Heinlein's novel "Time Enough for Love", and that is what I would suggest you read instead.
I read a much earlier edition of this - repeatedly. :-) It is one of my favorite books ever. Lazarus Long is hilarious; and while being gut-busting at times, Notebooks is full of wisdom too.
Quotable writing from Heinlein. This short book is full of some "deep" thoughts from one of the masters of science fiction. I enjoyed re-reading this book. It went quickly. Agreed with most of what is in it, too. Not all, but most.
Wow. I know it's a classic, and required reading for several of Heinlein's other character arcs, but the middle of this was a slog.
baen ebook
A philosophy book disguised as science fiction. Thought provoking.
smile bitches your on candid camerea and tat is a laser site on yyoour head - rebecca e sanderz conneticut p.d.
I thought this would be more of a novel, and less notes by the main character. It was interesting, but not as much as I had hoped.
I have six copies of this. The wisdom is great!
Some observations from Lazarus (the ageless man): Never fight a small man, he'll kill you and the best way to tell a lie is to tell the truth so unconvincingly that no one believes you.
A collection of quotes and sayings from one of Heinlein's most enduring and insightful characters. Some profound, some practical, others mildly silly.
If I were able to do needlepoint, my home would be adorned with many of these quotes.
The Notebooks are contained within Time Enough for Love, but this is just the wonderful gems culled from the book. Lazarus is a riot and Heinlein is a genius.
