https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1556387.The_Angry_Wife
I have read books about the times of American slavery, and learned in school about the Civil War and the abolishment of slavery, but I have not read about, or even thought too much about the time period where the war is over and everyone goes home. Say you owned slaves, what does your life look like? Say you were a slave, what does your life look like? This books gives a glimpse into that transition period by showing us the different viewpoints of its characters over their lifetime after the war is over. Very interesting.
InterestingI never knew, before I discovered this book, that Pearl Buck wrote about anything but China - certainly not the American south after the Civil War. Her take on relations between blacks and whites is interesting. She brings out how terribly difficult things must have been. Also, I confess I knew nothing about the railroad strike of 1877. Here she begins to delve into workers vs rich corporate owners and the beginnings of unions. I was not crazy about the last third or so of the book but all in all it was an interesting read.
I dove right in from the beginning, as the characters and the themes and the plot are all timeless and universal, because they are so insightfully written.Aging alongside the book's protagonist, Pierce, was both agonizing and reaffirming.
I've learned that Buck published this book when she was 49 years old, which makes sense to me.
She clearly understands what aging and introspection and self-development entails.
Pierce is so completely sympathetic and convincing as a whole human being, even when you disagree with his specific thoughts and actions.
A rare mix of a quiet, and seemingly non-interesting life set in a time of social change, written with the mastery and deep psychological insight that did not allow me to put the book down for longer, than it was absolutely needed.
Pierce Delaney comes home from the war, having fought for the South, changed and willing to change, to a wife who seemingly cannot comprehend the change.
Tensions escalate when Pierce's brother Tom, who fought for the North and survived Andersonville, returns home to complete his recovery and marries one of the mixed-raced servants brought into the house during his absence.
How those complications play out makes for a fascinating but at times heart-wrenching read.
BTW, I chose this book for a second reading challenge for a book published the year I was born.
Pearl Buck......fantastic author...has tremendous insight into the feeling--loves, joys,struggles, concerns of women.
In every book I've read I've found myself strongly relating to the central female character.
I've read 3 of her books.
Each one is unique in its portrayal of women.
Yet each one drew me in to the world of these various women.
Loved it.
"A woman had to think how to do a thing like that.
Just to make a fuss wasn’t enough." "She rose, spread her skirts and floated out of the room like an outraged swan,"
Post Civil War SouthA different view of the old south and it's traditions.
Miss Buck shows us a Yankees view of how the south kept as much as possible to the old ways after the war against the north.
Once I started the book I found it hard to put down.
If you are a lover of historical fiction, you will love this book.
It is typical " Pearl.
S. Buck.
His only thoughts are of peace and returning back to the way things were before the war.
Good reading.
Good plot.
Pearl S.
Buck will always keep you entertained!!!
This was a departure from Pearl's far East stories, so I felt I had to read it. It's a historical piece of fiction dealing with an American Southern family after the Civil War. The family and those that were close (house) slaves have to deal with all the changes that came after the war: the new employer/employee relationships and the forbidden concept of interracial marriage. Although not one of her best, it is engaging and worth the read.
Change and RevolutionI enjoyed this book by Pearl Buck. Like her books on China, she writes of change and revolution, only this time in the southern United States. The main focus is a man who fought in the civil war and came home to a rapidly changing world around him.Though he tried to hold back time, things would never be the same. This story tells of his acceptance that the future would move on without him.
Another enjoyable read by Pearl S. Buck. This novel breaks away from her Asian settings with a journey through the freeing of slaves after the Civil War. An engaging story that touches on the struggles faced by slave owners and their freed slaves to deal with a different way of life. It captures the emotions of the various characters as they make their way through new challenges.
Great mix of history, fiction, intelligence and emotionI couldn’t wait to reopen book after each closing. So much learned about that period right after Civil War ended - with historical references woven in amongst this fine story of family, live, honor, ambition, growth and loss. Highly recommended.
Although perhaps not her best work, it does give a very good portrait of The South after the Civil War. Written in 1959 she show remarkable insight into the post war attitudes and lends understanding to the reasons why prejudice against African-Americans is still strong today. The language is a bit stilted and perhaps overly dramatic at times but still worth a read.
Several times I nearly gave up on this book. I was looking for an authentic book on slavery and abolition and this was not that. The characters are so flimsy, the storytelling weak and predictable. I know many will disagree but this was the first book I read by Pearl S Buck and I will definitely not be reading another.
This was my first Pearl S. Buck novel and it was very engaging. Written in 1947, the story is about a family divided by issues of race in the post Civil War era and what was considered socially acceptable.
A whole different setting for Pearl S BuckThis book takes place in post Civil War West Virginia. The main character is conflicted between the way he was raised and how he sees the world after the Civil War.
A fascinating read of transition set in post-Civil War West Virginia. Thought provoking in the arena of race relations as well as in the industrialization of the nation, labor issues and the monumental changes of late 19th century.
Pearl Buck’s books are always a reading treat. This is a significant book, which gives insights into the national divisions of the US today. Enlightening.
A stupid, poorly written book. Don’t waste your time!
An interesting take on West Virginian "plantation society" in the aftermath of the Civil War.
Good book! Focuses on life in the south after the Civil War from many different vantage points....slaves, slave owners,
I prefer her books that take place in China. I found this one a little hard to follow-the story line jumps from person to person-it takes focus to follow it.
pearl Buck has never failed to impress
I love Pearl S. Buck - have read 15 or so of her books. Absolutely hated this one.
Buck wrote beautifully but I hate these people and can't tolerate their company any longer.
Presumably this increased the titular wife’s anger: her White men might find themselves both drawn to these women and fooled by their ability to seem pretty close to “White.” Such bi-racial Black women loomed as a threat to the Southern White wife and her revered position atop a virtual pedestal, despite their lives owing to their enslaved mothers’ rapes.
The Mistress of the Plantation tolerated the results as long as she got to enjoy her wealth and elevated status.I must assume Buck’s intentions in writing The Angry Wife were good; however, it amused me to learn she wrote the book under a man’s name.

The story begins at the end of the Civil War when Pierce Delaney returns to his home from fighting for the South.
The angry wife of the title, Pierce's wife Lucinda, wants no changes in the way things have always been: whites as masters and blacks as slaves or the closest they can come to that state.
Because of the behavior of some white masters, such as what lead to Bettina's and her sister Georgia's existence, she is also angry at and suspicious of men, including her own husband.
To my opinion, Pearl S.
Buck chose the unique context for the "wars" to set as the story background.
Everybody chose their own path of revolution and pursued their own freedom.
Thus, nobody in this story is a complete revolutionist nor totally free.
Then there were people who stubbornly stayed the same and set their own wars against those who pursued freedom.
And one person, Pierce Delaney, the main character, is at the same time strong- and weak-willed.
Funny how he swayed from one doubt to another and made his choice, I think.
Aw well, Pearl S.
Buck is one of a hell story-tellers.
ExcellentPearl S. Buck is a top quality author. Her portrayal of her characters is unmatched. So much depth, and when you peel off back the layers you can see into and feel the essence of each person. The conflict between those who changed and moved forward with the times and those who remained locked in the past as well as how it affected their relationships kept the story riveting. I found the historical context interesting also. The author may no longer be with us, but this novel is timeless.
I love Buck's writing and this book did not disappoint. Her woman's perspective is so spot on whether she is writing about a Chinese matriarch or, in this case, a spoiled Southern Bell - she is best to read.I was confused by the title in the beginning and gradually found the meaning which gave the book a new light.Her descriptions and depth of feelings about slavery and acceptance are amazing.If you haven't read any Buck you are missing out - I really liked this book and I loved The Pavilion of Women.
