https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25810500-what-is-not-yours-is-not-yours
The difficulty is understanding where the boundaries between the two lie and, for the characters here, the first question is so often: who am I?For the record, my favorite story here is "books and roses." Set in the world's most phantasmagorical city, Barcelona, with much of the action occurring in Gaudi's La Pedrera -- the most amazing apartment building ever -- it is the perfect pairing of setting and style.
Reading Helen Oyeyemi is like working out with a friendly but very aggressive personal trainer.
In much the same way as a good, hard workout eventually leads to an endorphin-fueled breakthrough, Oyeyemi’s short stories eventually clarified for me, and what began as a veins-bulging effort relaxed into a steady rhythm that I could keep pace with.
I wish I had encountered books like this in my college English curriculum—I think it would have totally floored me to read about the world as it actually is, as opposed to how it was, for privileged white men, hundreds of years ago.
It made me question everything.Plus, there was a beautiful passage about reading that won my heart over:“I went into the library at night and found peace and fortitude there.I didn’t know where to begin, so I just looked for a name that I knew until I came to a life of Joan of Arc, which I sat down and read really desperately.
I hadn't noticed it until I had moved on to the next story, but this piece features the same character that was mentioned in “sorry” doesn’t sweeten her tea, and I loved her (Dayang Sharif, the sister of the disillusioned fan) even more in here.It's set while Day's in college and among a lot of happenings, she meets Hercules Demetriou, who made me swoon a damn lot.
This was my first read by Helen Oyeyemi, and it was definitely an interesting one.
However, I must admit that her way of telling a story doesn't appeal strongly to me.
It was the fact that her stories are quite messy and confusing that I didn't really like.
That being said, I did find some of the short stories very intriguing, and I do like how Helen Oyeyemi mixes magical realism with everyday people and storylines.
I also know of a lot of people who would love this story because of its magical realism, so definitely check it out if you have any interest in it.
One astonishing, gulp-it-down, re-read it for deeper truths story ('books and roses', the opener) then just a long, slow ride of WTF? and thoughts of "what am I missing?" told in beautiful but impenetrable prose. Phrases caught me repeatedly (although none that feel shareable out of context), but overall I just didn't have the key to this house. (You'll get the reference if you've read it.)-------------------I received an advanced reader's copy of this title from the publisher in exchange for an honest review.
3.5 StarsWeird, sometimes wonderful, but… just as often crazy-weird, as in if she was sitting across from me telling me these stories, I would either suspect she had taken some magical mystery tour courtesy of Timothy Lear’s medicine cabinet, or she needed drugs of another kind.
Do you really think you can go on like this?” “ if a book is locked there’s probably a good reason why, don’t you think?” - My second favorite in this collection, with a weirdly wonderful ending.
congratulations! semifinalist in goodreads' best fiction category 2016! books and roses"sorry" doesn't sweeten her teais your blood as red as this?drowningspresencea brief history of the homely wench societydornička and the st. martin's day goosefreddy barrandov checks ... in?if a book is locked there's probably a good reason for that don't you think
Using the metaphorical (and often literal) conceit of keys, the stories tackle themes of discovery, connections, and belonging.The first story – my personal favorite – is entitled Books and Roses and reveals Ms. Oyeyemi at her finest.
The story is masterfully conceived.Other favorites are “Is Your Blood as Red as This?”, which centers on puppeteers and blurs the lines between the real and the surreal as characters grasp with sexual identity and confusion and the restoration of order.
Gave up. Really sorry, book clubbers. But, I'm gonna die one day, and I just can't waste my precious reading time on stuff that's trying so painfully hard to be weird and shocking.
bigarurre: "a medley of sundry colors running together" and/or "a discourse running oddly and fantastically, from one matter to another"I was mesmerized by Oyeyemi's dizzying imagination from the start.
And, thankfully, through a character's research into the term bigarurre, Oyeyemi offers us a vital clue to unpacking her style, because the orchestra of images she conducts is precisely both "a medley of sundry colors running together" and/or "a discourse running oddly and fantastically, from one matter to another."Did I enjoy this book?
At times, I was drowning - I had absolutely no way to grasp either what was happening or the meaning behind a gesture, a character, the entire story.
Although her prose is memorable and unparalleled and her ability to craft a story is a thing of wonder, there's always a severe degree of disconnect from her narrative that keeps the reader from being fully immersed - something where the pieces are all there on the page, all the key elements of a good story, but it leaves me wanting something more, a more tangible way of understanding the motives of her characters.
Best stories:Blood and Roses - A baby girl is left at a monastery with a mysterious key and instructions to wait.
It's about people who love shadows, people who are trying to understand and getting in their own way, people who can't quite trust and are eaten up inside.
I loved the first story (Books and Roses) the most (oh god so much!) , but "Homely Wench Society", "Drownings" and "Presence" wound up being the most memorable after that one.
But I suspect that part of it is just that I would just rather have seen more of Montserrat and Lucy and "Books and Roses" because that was the closest to my escape/reality.I look forward to reading more Oyeyemi, though.
This is a collection of short stories, each with interesting and somewhat magical settings that are refreshing and fun to read.
However, I found myself a little lost in some of the stories wondering how I missed a turn here and a clue there, and my biggest problem with the tales is that they didn't end with quite the umph I imagined or wanted.A few concepts that describe some of the action: puppets that come alive, orphans left with benefits, evil rulers, female lovers, magical lands, dreams that turn to reality, manipulative musicians, secret protectors and wealthy men with girlfriends.
These were some weird ass stories. I like weird.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestThere are two kinds of literature in the world: the kinds that make sense & the kinds that don't. In recent years, the kind of literature that don't make sense have become popular, lining the shelves in hipster bookstores, as devoted hipster-lit aficionados have long arguments about "what the author really meant." (And don't tell me that Helen Oyeyemi isn't hipster-lit, because I was in a hipster bookstore recently, & she had an ent
Maybe it's a blink-and-you'll-miss-it moment, which sucks, because I usually do my reading at the end of the evening, when my eyes are tired and I'm not at my intellectual best.I will say that I loved the prose in this one, and it includes an LGBT love story (always good), but the overall story was like a pretty present left unwrapped.
Oh wow, how I love Helen Oyeyemi's writing. Her novels are like labyrinths: disorienting and a little scary, but they leave you with such a charming impression that you'll always remember them once you're finished. The same goes for these short stories, and although I didn’t love all of them, I did find them hard to forget. In  What is Not Yours is Not Yours  you’ll find a collection of stories wherein a variety of characters – from different ethnicities, sexualities, religions – are all searchi
Once you’ve done that you hear sounds behind them; sounds that convince you you’ve locked someone in.”  Just like in her earlier books you’ll find elements of Oyeyemi’s creepy magical-realism in here, but actually these stories aren’t meant to frighten you.
Part (no) and (yes): I liked the terrifying retelling/spin-off of Pinocchio, but what did just happen?!?But on the good side, there also were a couple of stories that I did understand, and that I found beautiful and very thought-provoking.
So while I loved reading more of Oyeyemi’s imaginative prose, I didn’t enjoy the confusion that a lot of the stories left me with.
I received a copy of this book from Netgalley, in exchange for an honest review.4.5 starsAn engrossing, often elusive collection of short stories...I'd heard great things about this book, so was very excited to hear that I'd received a copy.
Oyeyemi is a highly original writer, and I love the fact that she's uncompromising.
She doesn't simplify things for the benefit of the reader; in fact, every short story is designed to make you think...
It's a collection of stories that probably needs to be read a few times to try to delve into its secrets - but perhaps that's the whole idea of it...
Three stars isn’t a bad rating and this isn’t a bad short story collection, but I have to say, I’m disappointed.
More often than not, I felt rather lost in stories that combined multiple storylines into one and jumped from character to character – all things that aren't inherently bad, but were executed in a way that made me feel distant from the cast of characters and the narratives.
I do think that Oyeyemi has a knack for the whimsical and magical that shines through in these stories.
I also really liked that some characters reappeared in more than one story.
I mostly enjoyed this collection of stories, all of which feature locks and keys (although I'm not sure I actually noticed that myself ...), and all of which contain some speculative or magical realism element.
However, while I found these all gripping and incredibly well-written, at the same time, I'm not sure I "got" quite a number of them.
In a weird way, a number of these stories, especially "Is Your Blood as Red As This?", seemed as if they could have been the written versions of the comics in  SuperMutant Magic Academy.
This gorgeously undulating collection of stories sits somewhere on the edges of this world, where magic exists unquestioned and unexplained, lurking horrors softened by the veil between reality and fantasy and always overcome - just like the old fairytales.
A pleasant little story about a highschool crush turns into a whimsical tale of puppetry, though sinister suggestions of control and power are always beneath the surface.
Beneath other surfaces: lovers in a drowned city smile up at the survivors on land; a beloved artist hides a temperament that will change the lives of his lovers; an aloof woman holds another world in the pages of a book.
Normally I need more plot in my fiction, and I can be very harsh on short stories that end inconclusively or feel like a bite-sized sample of a novel rather than standalone tales in their own right -- but for some reason I'm more than fine with it for Oyeyemi.
This collection takes all of the whimsy and unpredictable elements of that novel and the result is a beautiful and playful mess of storytelling that impressed me from the first story to the last.
Oyeyemi's writing is pure joy, and enchantment; surprise and haze; clarity and impressionism.
Most of my enjoyment came from the sensation these stories gave me of feeling like the floor was snatched from underneath me!
There is NO ONE writing like this.
It is imaginative, poetic, and magical writing that can only be produced with a pure love of the craft.
Disclaimer: Do not let this somewhat of a review stop you from trying this. There was absolutely nothing wrong with the writing or the book in fact, the abandoning is a consequence entirely of my own tastes.I couldn't do it. In the beginning I was intrigued but six stories in and I was just left scratching my head. I cannot take it! I CANNOT! This is for sure the last of Oyeyemi's work I am going to try.
I found these stories difficult, enthralling, fairy-tale-like, and haunting.
I got a little weary at times of the fairy tale tone which is why I'm rating 4 stars instead of 5.
I loved Oyeyemi's Mr. Fox and Boy, Snow, Bird.
I was slightly less in love with this collection but I'm having a hard time concentrating on books these days, with few exceptions so the reservation could easily be a fault in this reader.
Oyeyemi is a remarkable writer; I want to read all her works and hope she has more coming soon.
By just a few pages into the first story, I was reminded again of how much I love Oyeyemi's fabulous storytelling style.
Each story is meaty enough to feel completely satisfying; I love that she weaves a couple of common themes through all the stories, as well having some character overlap between the stories.
Those little touches make it feel almost like something different than just a collection of short stories -- maybe it's a bridge between the world of short stories & the world of the novel, where Oyeyemi defies conventions & creates her own melding of the two.
Oyeyemi’s free-flowing imagination results in a wholly original collection of stories: one never knows what will happen next, or what byways the story might take us down before the end.
Locks and keys are a recurring motif, but not the only commonality – six of the nine stories are set in contemporary England, and characters from earlier stories regularly reappear.
Ordinarily I consider the second person something literary authors need to flush from their systems, but Oyeyemi’s writing is strong enough that this actually works.Overall, I definitely enjoyed this collection.
Ουδέποτε συνέλαβα ολοκληρωτικά τον ειρμό του πρωτοπρόσωπου αφηγητή και γιατί θεώρησε πως είναι λογικό να αναλάβει ένα τέτοιο εγχείρημα.Το βιβλίο είναι καλογραμμένο και έχει εξαιρετική φαντασία.
Φαίνεται να έχει κοινό και ανταπόκριση ενθουσιώδη κι εγώ να είμαι απλά αυτός που είμαι.Κι αν λέω όλα αυτά, γιατί νιώθω πως στο μέλλον θα την ξαναδιαβάσω; Γιατί, παρότι μετριοπαθής στα λόγια μου, ευπρόσδεκτα θα άνοιγα τις σελίδες ενός άλλου βιβλίου της; Γιατί η Oyeyemi θα μπορούσε να κάνει παρέα με την Κέλι Λινκ και με τον Γκέιμαν, γιατί της αρέσει η φαντασία.
Όμως απόλαυσα αποσπασματικές ιστορίες και αποσπασματικές γραφές και χάρηκα για την γνωριμία μου με την Oyeyemi.
Brilliant. Allusive and elusive. Oyeyemi's writing here has refined and smoothed—the flashy pyrotechnics of White is for Witching and condensed beyond even Mr Fox into a deeper, more internal power of story, dream, desire. Need to ruminate on higher meaning here, if there is any beyond the title and: keys open locks.
Enchanting, Impressive, Wonderful, Incredible and Super Weird.
books and roses - 3.5/5 stars'sorry' doesn't sweeten her tea - 4/5 starsis your blood as red as this? I: (no) - 3.5/5 starsII: (yes) - 3/5 starsdrownings - 4/5 starspresence - 4/5 starsa brief history of the homely wench society - 4/5 starsdornicka and the st martin's day goose - 3.5/5 starsfreddy barrandov checks...in? - 3/5 starsif a book is locked there's probably a good reason for that, don't you think - 4/5 stars
