https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1946717.The_Myth_of_the_Twentieth_Century
Ann Coulter and Laura Ingraham write just as hateful and incoherent books as this one was, but they are only read by watchers of Fox News, Brietbart and other alt-right followers of Donald Trump.
Within his mad ramblings there is large overlap with modern day Trump Republicans, fascist and alt-right haters in as much as they all despise humanism, democracy (equality and fairness), and modernity and believe freedom for the sake of freedom is an ultimate good.
It’s by far one of the most influential books within the 20th century (I don’t believe wiki when they say people bought it in Germany, but didn’t read it.
• Every German and non German living in Germany who through word, writing and action makes himself guilty of insulting the German people will, depending upon the gravity of the case, be punished with imprisonment, jail, or death.• the so called old testament must be abolished once and for all as a book of religion.• England had conquered south Africa for the Jewish diamond dealers ...
Rosenberg reveals a fundamental fear of Jews, based on what I read as a clear sense of his own inferiority, much like Hitler's.
Only by exterminating the Jews like plague bacilli can the German people flourish.• The law of the coming Reich will sweep here with an iron broom.
The book talks about the warrior races of the nordic past and the myths that evolved around them as supposed to the unchallengeable role of intellectualism that penetrates most of the world today.
The book was very phlosophical in places but at the same time very assumptive about the unchallengable role that the nordic races should have and will one day play in the world.
The book also talks a bit about protestantism and the deleterious effect of catholicism on the world.
The book covers a lot and is fairly well written, challenging and in places ridiculous but certainly worth a read.
Historically interestingRead this due to a historical interest in Nazi Germany. Explains the philosophy of Blood & Soil. Antisemitic and racist, but still an interesting read.
Mind numbing garbage
Ach du lieber Himmel... *feeling insulted*Ich habs immer schon irgendwie gewusst, dass ich ein kulturell zurückgebliebener barocker alpenetrusker bin...sowas krauses hab ich selten gelesen... aber das mit den geflügelten etruskischen dämonen in den katholischen kirchen... das könnt doch irgendwie hinkommen...
Essential text for the liberal historiographer.
"El tenebroso trasfondo ideológico que estaba en la raíz del nazismo apareció claramente, más que por el libro Mein Kampf'[Mi lucha] de Hitler, por la obra de Alfred Rosenberg, Mythus des 20. Jahrhunderts [Mito del siglo XX]. Este escrito vio la luz en 1930 en Munich, pero no empezó a gozar de celebridad hasta 1934." Franzen (pág.374)
