https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/585539.The_Second_Lady
I read The Second Lady long long ago. But the book was missing the last few pages and after that initial torment of not being able to find out, I have managed to live all this while without knowing what happened the moment they stepped off the plane. And somehow after all these years, something made me want to find out.Maybe it is not 'cool' to say that you like Irving Wallace and such these days, you got to be snooty and like authors like to be with it. But hey, I like my masala and I will not
But the book was missing the last few pages and after that initial torment of not being able to find out, I have managed to live all this while without knowing what happened the moment they stepped off the plane.
The Soviets embark on an unbelievable plan to replace the American First Lady with a look alike, an actress with a strong resemblance who has been tweaked to perfection over the past three years.
The replacement happens and the pages turn themselves.
It is a USA-USSR game, so you already know who will win.
Their First Lady is fat and housewife-looking.
It is a strictly time pass book. it is of cold war days. The plot is outlandish and so is everything else. KGB comes across an actress in Russia who is a look alike of first lady. They hatches off a plan to switch the two. The actress is trained but they stumble when it comes to sex. This book has a lot of reference to that.Climax is fitting to plot.A racy, one time time.
It's even better the second time around: second read for the Second Lady.
Wallace was one of my major influencers when I started writing my own novels.
Then he brings them all together with intricate plot twists.The Second Lady is no exception.
Wallace begins with strands that he entwines into a solid rope, then begins to unravel again.
Finally, he pulls all the loose ends together in a totally unexpected way.Characters are well developed and their motivations are clear.
You find yourself cheering first for one, then another.His "Lady or the Tiger" ending leaves you satisfied rather than disappointed.
As brilliant as every other Irving Wallace book. A great thriller with enough twists and turns to keep you at the edge of the seat provided one believes the preposterous feat conceived by the author. Ignoring Guy Parker's amateurish detective skills and obvious deductions, the book still does its magic.
entertaining but predictable. i guess it played on fears over Russia when it was written? the First Lady is replaced by a lookalike who attempts to obtain info directly from the President, her act carries into the bedroom, blahblahblah.
His famous works include The Seven Minutes, The Plot etc.In the novel The Second Lady, Billie Bradford is a beautiful, intelligent and enchanting woman.
While the real Billie Bradford must fight her ruthless jailers in a foreign land- with the only weapon she has,The plot begins in a period of intense but non-violent conflict between the United States and the Soviet Union regarding a particular African region and the resources of that region.
Whichever side negotiates its way to victory through this summit will have the upper hand in the modern world for a very long period of time.But the KGB (Secret police of the Soviet Union) has other plans.
hahhahhahahh!! Is TRUMP II MAN!!!! Wonder????? Russian Plant???
Típico relato de la guerra fría. Estados Unidos es bueno y poderoso, los soviéticos son malos, débiles y merecedores de todos los castigos. Tema inverosímil y pobremente tratado. Diálogos poco realistas. Le doy dos estrellas porque sí me mantuvo leyendo.
novel terjemahan, judul indonesia "Isteri Palsu Sang Presiden"It's not my favorite novel, but it has something that I want to it more and more. I read more than twice
I read this in school - more than 20 years ago. I still remember that I couldnt put the book down. Read it at one go. Would like to read it again.
A fascinating political thriller about a Russian actress who happens to look exactly like the United States First Lady.
The head of the KGB gets an idea- kidnap the First Lady, then place the actress in her place, where she would be in a position to learn the President's political secrets and relay them back to Russian intelligence.
She says she can't wait to meet a friend of hers again, not knowing that the friend has passed away.
She is seated between a stranger and another best friend of hers, and greets the stranger as her friend.
I borrowed this book because of the lady on the cover, which made me think it was a romance thriller. However, it turned out to be a high-level espionage thriller. This didn't disappoint me at all though.. the story was interesting right from the start. It was fast paced and full of interesting characters. I loved the fact that we had entirely fictitious presidents, premiers and prime ministers, but almost real-seeming political issues between the countries. There were no big twists, the story was pretty straight-forward, but exciting nonetheless.
This was my second time reading this and although I still thoroughly enjoyed it, I found the language a little dated. (Not surprising since this book was written some 30 years ago!) Still, a great story line and even after two readings, I'm still uncertain about the ending. I'm going to go with my heart.
Actually ,in my opinion, this book is somewhere between 3-3.5 stars. The story and it's plot are really good. The characters are strong and play well in the story ,but it sometimes is dragged and predictable in places. It's an incomplete climax,but that is kind of expected. It's a good book according to me.
Have been rereading this roller coaster of a ride book, The Second Lady since its first appearance in the Bookseller list. Irving Wallace exceeds my expectations in this book. kept me up till the wee hours of the morning!
I started reading this book and I was like, “Oh nice” but then it gets scary and still want to know has something like this even remotely happened? It is a great book because of the unpredictability.
A fast paced thriller. The plan to substitute US first lady was so meticulously planned! The end is most unexpected
A good political thriller. A bold move by the KGB to replace the First Lady Billie Bradford by a spy Vera ends in a jaw dropping, nerve racking and spine chilling finale .
Excellent plot and great narration by Irving Wallace - as usual.
Wonderful story with so much of suspense.
Now I understand why so many people read Wallace. Enjoyed
Disfruté mucho esta novela, la leí sin parar siquiera a tomar agua y la leí hace mucho, cuándo no me gustaba leer tanto, la he vuelto a leer y me sigue gustando como la 1ra vez... Esta novela realmente me atrapó.La historia de una persona que prepara y se hace diversas operaciones para ser exactamente igual a la 1ra dama... Todo lo q tuvo q hacer hasta el más mínimo detalle y a eso le adicionamos que era una buena actriz.... En serio me atrapó. La recomiendo.
3.5 / 5I liked most of it quite well. The Russians were for once depicted as normal human beings, not evil brutes, like in most of the spy thrillers of that time. I did not like the end particularly though
Ending yg brilian dan cerdas, karena menyediakan amat banyak celah untuk dibuatkan sequel yang sayangnya mungkin tak disadari sang penulis, karena setelah sekitar 15 tahun belum muncul sequelnya.
Ceritanya tentang penculikan Ibu Negara Amerika saat kunjungan ke Rusia dan tak ada satupun pihak Amerika yg menyadari karena Ibu Negara sudah digantikan oleh seseorang yang dibuat sangat mirip dengan yg asli.
Apa pula yg akan dilakukan Rusia, jika menyadari bahwa yg selamat adalah Ibu Negara USA yang asli.
Celah 2: Bagaimana pula jika ternyata yg selamat adalah Ibu Negara yg palsu.
Sebaliknya, jika yang palsu selamat, dia tak mungkin kembali ke Rusia, karena pasti akan dibunuh sebab memegang rahasia besar.
negara yang cukup arogan ini terkadang juga membuat para penulis na arogan.
tidak mau kalah dan selalu menjadi pihak yang menang.ternyata kisah ini bisa lepas dari pandangan rhe selama ini.
seandai na terlanjur terungkap, maka yang muncul adalah kebohongan-kebohongan lain untuk menutupi na.
perlu kerja sama tim untuk mempertahankan kebohongan ini.
dan perlu kerja sama tim untuk membongkar kebohongan ini, plus rasa ingin tau dan curiga terutama paker dan nora.akan selamatkan vera si ibu negara jadi-jadian, bagaimana nasib billie ibu negara yang sesungguh na?
akhir yang mengejutkan, dan tidak terduga.
berhubung tidak ingin jadi spoiler, maka baca sendiri aja.
klu na, ending na tidak terduga.-34-
La trama está centrada en la preparación e infiltración de una agente de la KGB que es convertida en la doble exacta de la primera dama de los Estados Unidos, quien logra sustituirla gracias a sus dotes histrionicos en víspera de una cumbre bilateral; su misión: obtener la información determinante para cambiar el equilibrio del poder entre estas naciones.
Wallace mantiene la atención del lector con una narrativa y descriptiva inteligente con un buen desarrollo de la psicología de los personajes principales que te hacen pre visualizar los rumbos de la acción, el autor lleva el climax casi hasta al final, cuyo desenlace no puedes prever con certeza y que da espacio a la especulación.
Keeping in mind that this was published the year before the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan, The Second Lady really played to those visceral fears that people don't really know you and to the Cold War era mind games of politicians and spy masters.
Funnily enough, I was so caught up in the breathless rush of espionage, politics and discovery that I didn't think too much on the crafting of characters.
But boy, what a plot - from the ingenious plan to train a Russian 'Second Lady' to Billie's desperation to the absurdity of sex being the brick wall to Russian success.

People are not aware that this book was written in the 19th century by Irving Wallace & you can imagine he created this plot back then which we still use in our movies.
A commendable job by Irving Wallace.
If suppose in future, I became a movie director, i'll definitely make a movie on this book.
I was really hooked to the page & predicted the climax but no I was wrong, my prediction was wrong.
The climax will leave you stunned.
The Fan Club & The Second Lady are now my favorites of Irving Wallace.
The Second Lady made an interesting read, albeit it was unrealistic considering the plot involving the switching of the First Lady of the USA with a Russian double.
There were some interesting schemes in the story which helped to retain my interest and curiosity about what culminated in the end.
But the ending was left hanging....we are not told who survives the blast at the airfield; was it the real First Lady or the dupe First Lady!!
The ending is some what like the story 'Lady and the Tiger' which was also mentioned in the book itself.
