https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6547188-black-magic-sanction
If I'm being honest then this did not live up to my expectations.
I expected something more than some random action.
This book also has a returning character.
Meanwhile, she just won't let the guy forget what he's done, and I'll admit he's not a saint, but has she ever stopped to think about what made HIM do the things he does?
Nope.The only part in this book that made me feel some thrill was something that has to do with an important loss in Jenks life.
I won't delve into that one because the wound is fresh for me and Jenks both..
They probably aren't doing anything different than they were doing a month ago, but one morning you wake up and think to yourself, "Man, the way she baby-talks to the dog is annoying" or "Oh my God, if he clips his toenails in the living room one more time I'm going to scream." I'm not saying your relationship is doomed, but you are now past being blinded by how great you feel when they smile at you, and you'd better hope there was more there than initial chemistry or it's over.I woke up this morning and realized Rachel Morgan and Kim Harrison have begun to really annoy me.Now, to be fair, I came to Black Magic Sanction pre-annoyed at having to wait an additional month for the Kindle edition.
Reviewed by: Rabid Reads4.5 starsSo check this out.Rachel and Ivy are minding their own business, doing a bit of grocery shopping, when this blonde chick in a frumpy suit starts making eyes at Rachel.Or so she thinks.And Rachel’s a little bit embarrassed, a little bit flattered, but not even a little bit interested .
so that’s AWK-ward.Except Frumpy isn’t checking Rachel out!
*sighs*It also makes her angry.It makes me angry too, b/c guess who summoned Rachel for the straight-laced coven (whose members would rather DIE than have a bit of smut on their auras)?
Rachel feels misunderstood, tired, hungry, cranky, angry, and roughed up, due to yet another horrible bad thing that makes her worry about her friends, feel that she's not ready for a relationship, and take everything on by herself so no one she cares about gets hurt.In the first 150 pages she's attacked three times by the same baddie, summoned and sent to prison and escapes, drinks lots of coffee, and never gets 8 hours of sleep due to all the madness.
The character she was in the first books would be appalled at the actions she's taking now.
So there I was, innocently going about my day while listening to this book, and it’s all demon plot shenanigans and hilariously unintentionally awful pixie funeral poetry, and then bam, we get a casual aside about how female witches have extra vaginal muscles compared to human women, and there I am sitting on the curb in the middle of the block, laughing helplessly with my guide dog hovering over me doing “now what?” in Labrador (it’s all in the ears).Extra vaginal muscles!
The better the orgasm, the longer they clamp down and keep the participating penis in place!
She was such an afterthought in this book and that was a real shame.-----SPOILER------I don't know about anybody else, but I was EXTREMELY disappointed that Pierce was the one to go with Rachel in Jenks' time of need instead of Ivy. That was Ivy's place, not his and it angered me a lot.
I still like Trent/Rachel a bit more (probably because I have liked them since book 1), but way to turn on the heat with Al!!
There were great highs and serious lows in this book, and it made for an all around fantastic journey.
Al is a sneaky, devious demon though, and I think he is cooling his heels until the right opportunity comes for him to claim Rachel completely.
I like Ivy, and think her relationship with Rachel is important, as is her involvement in Vampiric Charms, but I've been eh lately about her.
I was glad to see Rachel try and move past Kisten in this book.
I am also VERY intrigued by the Rachel/Trent interaction at the end of the book.
5 *absolutely amazing* stars!I loved this one. Rachel finally is accepting what she is and what she can do. She's not getting anymore sh*t from anyone. YOU go girl! Give them hell!And I love, LOVE Pierce, but I have a feeling that he's not gonna stick around and it will be not by his choice... :(Anyway, the book was a masterpiece!
I won't drop spoilers, although I can thank Kim Harrison for not leaving me drowning for book #9.
LOVE this series!I've always been a spoiler fan and speculator, though, so I have to say I hope the next book is the story that finishes what the short story "Unbound" started, with Daryl causing some SERIOUS fireworks on all levels and I can only pray in my little heart of hearts that #10 Skimmer gets out (alive or undead--but undead would be better) and goes on a rampage.
Al is one of the best characters I have read in a while, and Trent has been my number one pick for Rachel since almost the beginning.
It is so fascinating!Then of course, I was bawling my eyes out for a good 10 pages or so, and I have not cried in a book in a long time.Therefore, overall I think we have headed back in a great direction and cannot wait to see what Rachel does going to do to break her familiar bond over Trent!
RTC!
All of these secondary charaters...Nick, Trent, Peirce, Ivy, Jenks (and Madalena), the witch council, etc....there are so many people involved with what seems to be a conspiracy to bring down Rachel Morgan!!
Even though every time you turn the page, Rachel is either fighting off demons or casting crazy spells, this series has started to blur together for me.
I like how Al is an evil demon but he's not ALL evil.
Really, the last two or three scenes were simply fantastic...wrapping up the story nicely, booting some mean ass people out of the series and setting up for the next few books nicely.
I must say that we are easily taken away by the story and now that the series is over, I’m happy to buy the volumes the one after the other and thus to continue the adventures of Rachel Morgan.Our heroine is going to have plenty to do in this novel!
Oh yes, because it is very difficult to understand exactly what he wants from our heroine and how it all will end.
It is also difficult to statute on him but the end of the story gives us hope and I’m really looking forward to reading the next book to see what happens.Everything evolves very quickly throughout the history and we learn a little more about the past of the woman and what she is capable of.
Kim seems to be only getting better as an author and I really enjoy her work.I liked nearly everything about this book plotwise, except for Pierce.
That character feels like his sole purpose is to muck up Ivy and Rachel's blossoming romance.
He doesn't even feel like he fit in the world Rachel, Ivy and Jenks inhabit.
I hated that Rachel admitted to herself that she feels more than sisterly toward Ivy, but thinks it doesn't count because she won't act on it.
*headdesk*If not for Pierce, I would have given this book five stars, but I just can't stand him as a plot device.
In this book, Rachel was very irritating in my opinion.
If someone broke into my property, and threatened my life, I’m not going to think twice about the method(s) I use.
Rachel preventing the deaths of the faeries was not realistic.Rachel’s panic attack when she and Pierce were hiding under ground?
Good grief.I’m not buying Rachel’s attraction to Pierce.
With 2 hours left, I was really ready for the book to end.To be fair, my review probably wouldn’t have been as harsh if I had read the book…but there is no escaping the irritating behavior/dialogue in the audio version.
This one was CRAZY GOOD. But I cried like a baby at the big scene. You know which one I'm talking about. That was worse than the end of book five!!!
♥), the Trent headquarters shenanigans (LMFAO what I wouldn't have given to be a fly on the wall and see his face, the whole thing was priceless; I'm still grinning just thinking about it); Pierce (ughhhh, grow up already, Rachel!), the Fountain Square scene (*giggles*), Trent, the horse race...
♥To sum it up: Pierce and Nic-k in the same book.
Bleah, my least favorite part of the book.
But we all know how smart *sarcasm* Rachel is when it comes to her men, so we'll move on, necessary evil and all that.
She's going to have a list."***[Pierce's] eyes were inches from mine.
Esta parte puede resumirse en una frase dicha en la novela por cierto personaje :"You're both idiots (...) Two people so intent on getting the best of each other that you can be manipulated into anything."Sep. Mucho de lo que pasa en la trama no vale la pena leer.
(hide spoiler)]Le había puesto un dos en la primera reseña, pero lo dejo mejor en 2.5 porque el último capítulo fue lo más sensato que ha pasado en toda la historia.
Aún así, todo el tiempo malgastado en (view spoiler)[Rachel y Pierce fue, en mi opinión, totalmente estúpido, cliché e innecesario (hide spoiler)] .
Very enjoyable, but the ending seemed a bit too easy and poor.
She is given a choice: sterilization or prison time in Alcatraz.But Rachel Morgan isn’t a woman who likes to be controlled, though there are plenty who are eager for the opportunity: Trent Kalamack, the rich politician/hiding elf whose father is responsible for her demon blood; the Coven Council who are hell bent on punishing Rachel for being able to twist demon magic; Algaliarept, the demon who schemed his way into making Rachel his familiar and the long dead witch, Pierce, who takes an “any means necessary” approach to getting out of his obligations.The lesson that all the above refuse to learn is that control cannot be taken from ones unwilling to relinquish it and in Black Magic Sanction, it’s a lesson that each learn the hard way.The novels follows Rachel into her past, opening long-slammed shut doors that have made her the witch she has become.
There’s a lot of disturbing stuff in this series, and out of everything, even the tortures and murder scenes, this is more disturbing to me on a personal level.
I repeat: Rachel wasted is always fun.I was pleased to see Ceri at first (she’s been missing too long), but her smugness started irritating me.
This is of course after he pissed me off by getting amused when Rachel is scared of being chemically castrated and lobotomized.
>:0Sadly there’s a character loss which leaves a devastating absence.There is one sex scene and, while I don’t want a perma-relationship there, I found it hot because it was unique with the discovery with the ley line, and honest during a vulnerable moment.
Rachel is settling into her new life as a shunned witch and spending her time in the ever after with Al learning.
This time around it is even worse as he keeps betraying Rachel over and over, even when she anticipates his betrayals he comes up with new and inventive ways.Ivy seems to have found some happiness in her life in a new boyfriend.
Rachel finds a really sweet way to comfort Jenks and help him with a difficult decision.Biz is starting to become more of a player in Rachel's world, leaving all sorts of things open in the future for him.
Black Magic Sanction is the 8th installment in the amazing Hollower series.
Because of her relationships to demons, The Coven attempt to lock her away in the witch prison of Alcatraz, guarded by violent guards who feed the inmates food that is drugged.Black Magic Sanction expands on Rachel's relationship with the demon world.
We finally get to see the outcome of the pixies, of whom make the story what it is and what the past was like between Rachel and Trent.
A funny thing about the series is that Kim Harrison names her Hollows books after Clint Eastwood movies.
:P It truly is an amazing read.
Harrison has brought her Hollow's series back on track and its filled to the brim with the good stuff that made the earlier books so great.
I love the way that Rachel finally manages to solve her dilemma with the coven, and the way that she manages to accept her ability to do black magic doesn't make her an evil witch (and the way that the coven manages to achieve truly evil results while sticking purely to white magic.)There is some resolution for Rachel with some characters from the past: Nick, Rachel's lying ex (I always liked the devious little thief), Lee and Trent.
So bottom line is that Black Magic Sanction is actually worth the hardcover price and has restored my enthusiasm for the series, can't wait to see what's in store for Rachel next.
Whoah what a book!Harrison has certainly upped her game in this latest installment.Gone is the angst over whether Rachel should make a go of things with Ivy. Instead most of this book is about Rachel trying to dodge the Coven from putting her in Alcatraz, lobotmising her magically and removing her ability to bare children.
It certainly ups the stakes in this very dramatic game of cat and mouse and at times I wasn't sure where the chips would fall.Put together with Trent trying to "Own" Rachel after the events from the previous book and trying to dodge becoming Newts apprentice and Rachel has her hands full.
First and foremost of these is her inability to actually listen to people--friend, ally, unknown--before jumping to a conclusion about what they're saying/offering/doing/intending.
Sure, you need a little carry over from book to book, some ongoing storylines.
But we also need to see Rachel and her team take on a case that has nothing to do with all the drama in her life, that gives them all a chance to show how competent they are--and make a little bit of money while they're at it, not relying on what Ivy does off-screen and in between books.
There was a good chunk about 3/4 of the way through it that got a bit slow, but it picked up at the end, and even though it seemed to end on a cliff-hanger, I won't down-vote it for that because it was soooo much better than the previous book.
I love Al. There was a lot more explaining of what Rachel is and world-building.
I'd like to see more Trent, more Ceri, and I love all the parts with the demons.
I'd love to see Rachel with Al, at least for a little bit, but know that is not going to happen.
The 8th book in the Rachel Morgan series.
From page one the action explodes off the page.
Rachel is driving when summoned.
She shows up in California to find that she's been summoned like a demon into a circle.
Even more surprising, it's the Coven she's surrounded by.
Rachel is on the run from the Coven throughout this whole book.
With only Trent Kalamak, the ex-scum Nick, and Pierce to help her, she's in more trouble then ever.This book is an edge-of-your-seat thrill ride.
Even through all the crazy turmoil Rachel stays true to character and you'll root for her the whole way.
(view spoiler)[I cried my hart out when Matalina died, mostly I believe because it was so recognizable for me, and of course beautifully written.
Maybe not for Rachel, but I love to read everything about him.
He's such a complicated character I think, and he challenges every black and white view Rachel has about the ever after and demons.
But maybe that's just because of Rachel's luke warm attitude towards him.
Ah we'll maybe I'll warm to him in the next book.
(hide spoiler)]Next on my list is the short story with Jenks and Bis (love that little adolescent, and my feelings for Jenks ought to be well known by now.
(re-reading series) Nick, Nick, Nick - he must die! I'm with Jinks - give him to Al please Rachel. So sad - I cried :( poor Jinks.The grocery store fight with the coven - hehehe I liked it way too many (strawberries).I like how Rachel and Al's relationship is growing (teacher - student) not love interest. I can't believe I'm going to say this but I really like Al now. Trent is ok too, I guess.
