https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/709007.The_Adventures_of_the_Black_Girl_in_Her_Search_for_God
در ابتدا خدای خشمگینی می بینیم که مانند یک دیکتاتور خونخوار از خون انسان و حیوان لذت می بردـ ای دختر نادان زود به سجده درآ و دفعه دیگر که پیش من می آئی عزیزترین فرزند خود را بیاور و در پای من به رسم فدیه قربانی کن زیرا من از بوی خونی که تازه ریخته شود بسی لذت می برمـ من فرزندی ندارم و دختری بکر هستمـ پس برو پدرت را بیاور تا ترا قربانی کند و به قوم خود نیز بگو که میش و بز و گوسفند فراوان آورند و به رسم فدیه در پیش من بسوزانند تا غضب مرا نسبت به خویش فرو نشانند وگرنه هر آینه آنها را به بلایی سخت گرفتار سازم تا بدانند که من خدا هستمهمانطور که "اوبوت سن لورانس" می نویسد: چون خداوند بوی گوشت سوخته را بویید و از آن لذت برد از اینکه بار دیگر نوع بشر را به وسیله طوفان هلاک سازد صرفنظر نمود و چنانکه کتاب مقدس می گوید نوح از هر جانور پاک و هر پرنده پاک گرفته در قربانگاه بسوزانید.
I liked the feminism of the following dialogue –“A Man needs many wives and a large household…” said the Arab.
God made Man before he made Woman.”“Second thoughts are best,” said the black girl.
Look no further than all the Harvey Weinsteins and Bill Cosbys.)ANSWERS TO THE BLACK GIRLThis information is all from Wikipedia, but pretty interesting – Shaw’s book caused a few people to write responses in 1933 :The Adventures of the White Girl in her Search for God by Charles Herbert MaxwellA white girl meets Shaw and the black girl and they visit H.
Είναι μια αναζήτηση για την αυτοπραγμάτωση μέσα απ’ όλα εκείνα που μπορούν να απασχολήσουν τον άνθρωπο: την ηθική, τη φύση του καλού ή του κακού, την ισότητα, την ύπαρξη του θείου έξω από ‘μας, ή μέσα μας.
Είναι ένα παιχνίδι που τίθενται όλες οι σωστές ερωτήσεις για τις οποίες δεν υπάρχουν εύκολες απαντήσεις.
Έγραψα παραπάνω πως είναι επιθετικότερη και αμεσότερη απ’ τον Καντίντ, δεν είναι όμως ανθεκτικότερη.
Ένα απίθανο αλληγορικό κείμενο, με στόχο την αναζήτηση του Θεού. Καταπληκτικό, ζωντανό, αληθινό!!! Διαβάστε το!!!
I found that, apart from one violation of current political correctness and a few inevitable stylistic issues, the message had lost none of its poignancy and perhaps little of its ability to shock.The Black Girl in Search of God is not a novel or a novella.
The idea in question, of course, is the nature of religious belief.The Black Girl of the title is only cast as such, I think, to provide Shaw with a literary vehicle to convey his otherwise naïve questions about Christianity.
I'm a little disappointing in myself for not immediately recognition the old man in the garden as Voltaire.
The last line of Voltaire's magnum opus Candide reads, "But we must cultivate our garden." This after Candide's arduous voyage replete with more torment than one man should ever suffer.
It almost perfectly matches the views of Robert Wright in The Evolution of God. Realizing this, I searched the index of Wright's book, and surprisingly found no references to Bernard Shaw.
This is one of a few books that has really forced me to question my ideals, and made me think in new ways; just as Robert Wright has.
“A God who cannot answer my questions is no use to me” said the black girl.
“Besides, if you had really made everything you would know why you made the whaleas ugly as he is in the pictures.”“My father beat me from the time I was little until I was big enough to lay him outwith my knobkerry” said the black girl; “and even after that he tried to sell me toa white baas-soldier who had left his wife across the Seas.
I have always refused tosay ‘Our father which art in heaven.’ I always say ‘Our grandfather.’ I will not have a God who is my father.”
Παραμυθάκι από τα λίγα! Σε 100 περίπου σελίδες σε περνάει από όλα τα γνωστά ιδεολογικά κινήματα και θρησκευτικά.
جورج برنارد شاو بخوانيد تا ذهن تان تازه شود.نويسنده اى خلاق و توانا كه مشخصا با استفاده ى به جا از بهره ى هوشى بالاى خود و در قالب يك طنز شگفت آور خواننده را متوجه مسائل خطير و نكات عمده ى بشريت و زندگى و تعاملات آن مى سازد.بررسى داستان هاى كوتاه و مقالات وى بيش از هر چيز گواه پيشرويى وى از لحاظ فكرى و روحى در زمانه ايست كه از نظر فلسفه ى مدرن، بشر همچنان درگير مفاهيم بنيادى بوده و به نظر من همچنان متكى به ابناى ماورالطبيعه محسوب مى شده است.
Uma paródia sem grandes pretensões à mais natural das necessidades humanas: a busca pelo divino.
Só que aqui o divino é reduzido a Deus, caricaturado nas suas diferentes versões, desde as diferentes personas do deus bíblico a Alá: e essas caricaturas são isso mesmo, caricaturas.
Tudo aquilo nos faz rir, sim senhor, e aqui e ali são apontadas críticas estimulantes que nos fazem pensar: mas no geral há um tom de paródia simplista e aparvalhada que transforma o que podia ser um confronto de ideias numa batalha viciada à partida.
Mas o que mais gosto no humor e na sátira é ver touros agarrados pelos cornos, não touros transformados em gatinhos.
the best way i can describe this is gb shaw's version of the little prince or candide but about religion...it is written very simply with all of shaw's satire, wit, and insight...this book will probably offend the religious...but it offends not because the book is written to ridicule, but because they cannot accept the truths that shaw points out...
This is a philosophical story about a girl who searching of in right, she passed from lot off stage ...she saw different religious persons .....finally see understand that God is present in her own heart
Ese estúpido hombre llamado Job...
Very witty, very British, very short little fable about how Bernard Shaw thinks religion is desperately ridiculous but truth is still always divinely inspired.
In a sentence: A strong African woman casts off the restraints of a slave’s religion, challenges whitey’s gods, and pushes through to a way of life that is more natural, productive, and happy.It doesn’t take long for nearly every intelligent author in the course of their career to weigh in on the one topic most try to avoid until they have had at least a small amount of success under their belt.
Too long to be a short story, too short to be a novella, this is a tale of an African woman who takes the advice of a European missionary quite literally and walks the land searching for God. What emerges is a clever commentary on many the world's perspectives on religion and God: A wrathful god who insists that the girl offer a sacrifice via "spilled blood;" A god who offers no answers but only arguments; a scientist who finds truisms in cruel animal experiments; gods in the form of churches carried on the backs of people.
A shame that this is out of print and somewhat difficult to track down. It's the most prescient - wokest- play I've ever read. I would love to see this performed by a modern cast (with some problematic language toward the end cleaned up). It is a black female "Candide" - very impressive for being written in the early 1930s.
A Book From A FriendDuring a weekend visit, an old friend recommended Shaw's "The Black Girl in Search of God." He lent me his hoary old paperback copy -- the now out-of print edition with the cover shown here on Amazon -- with the smell of must which he has owned and kept at his side for over fifty years.
In addition to the story, the book includes Shaw's epilogue which reflects upon and interprets his own work.The book tells of the spiritual quest of an unnamed young naked African woman after her conversion by a female European missionary who has also taught her to read.
The Black Girl in Search of GodMakes you think. But what is the answer? Stop searching and work on something good and constructive? On the whole a good answer, but then what is the point of writing a book? Examining various gods? Snappy, but good examinations.Aerial Football: the New GameInterestingThe Emperor and the Little GirlGood, but couldn't the other side be examined as well?The Miraculous RevengeWhat a story. What a story! Dont know if Shaws written a lot of short stories, but I hope he had. He really was something, wasn't he?
This was okay.
Interesting enough.
Seemed like this was Shaw's way of getting some stuff off his chest.
It was comical, and witty enough to keep me reading.
Considering this was written in the thirties, his ideas on religion and genders seemed advanced.
The last part of the book(after the ending of the tale), is a letter to us from Shaw about why he wrote the book, then this weird ranting about the state of affairs in global politics and religion.
Over all, it was a decent read, quick enough to plow through while waiting for lunch to finish cooking.
After being converted by a missionary nun in her small village the girl takes literally the biblical injunction to "Seek and you shall find me.” She leaves home and travels about Africa on a search for God. She encounters a variety of characters along the way, including, among others, Lohelath, the teacher, the arguing Nailer, the myopic scientist, the conjuror, the wandering Jew, the Arab gentleman and the caravan of the curious.
“I have found after a good deal of consideration, that the best place to seek God is in a garden.
I thought that the following listed stories in this book were interesting:The Black girl in search of GodThe Emperor and the little girlBeautie's dutyAnd the rest were just average.
I found that these stories as listed above were brave and punchy and even if there wasn't any point for them apart from to cause a stir I felt that in these Shaw Wrote what he thought and I found I was intrigued and respected him for it.
On the others it seemed he had no real reason to write the stories and I guess this is why he writes "and some lesser tales" after the main title.
En esta crítica a la religión (¿?) en forma de cuento Bernard Shaw no deja títere con cabeza al ponernos en la morena piel de una negrita recién convertida por una misionera que, cachiporra en mano, camina por la selva africana en busca de Dios encontrándose con diversos personajes metafóricos a los que destruirá en su mayoría con su cachiporra y su ''inocente'' escepticismo surgido de un pensamiento (supuestamente) claro y lógico.Toca como he dicho muchos palos en su crítica, desde los inicios paganos del cristianismo hasta el (supuesto) pensamiento científico ''moderno'' pasando por el árabe iconoclasta y machista, el artista, el heleno, el Cristo del amor finalmente prostituido con su dolor...Tiene conclusiones muy interesantes en mi opinión (y otras no tanto).
Attempts to do to The Pilgrim's Progress what The Wiz does to The Wizard of Oz, but unfortunately was written by a honky. Oh well.Looking it up just now on Wikipedia, I'm struck by the following passage (it came out in 1932):Both the story and the essay outraged the religious public, creating a demand that supported five reprintings ... Shaw exacerbated the general furor by proposing intermarriage of blacks and whites as a solution to racial problems in South Africa. This was taken as a bad joke in Britain and as blasphemy in Nazi Germany.
I really only read this book because of the title and though it had a very amusing look on religion and very honest characters any potential the story could've had was killed by the tacked on ending that didn't fit in at all with the rest of the tale. It seemed more like Shaw had a good premise for a story but no way to end it so he just rounded everything out with a strange courtship and called it a day.
In the past I have read most of Shaw's work and liked it. I liked the concepts for the most, advanced even controversial for their time, but the writing felt dated to me. Still worthwhile. The illustrations were lovely well done scratchboard a technique not used often today.
Very interesting short stories about heaven and the thoughts of God. I liked Aerial Football the most, I think it was probably how they illustrated the bishop there, and made him into a jackass. HA HA RELIGION SUCKS.Sincerely, Portia.
I thought the book itself would be more interesting that is talking about God and peoples fairy tales about religion , the stories were good but there are some of them that I didn't understand whats the point of them .
The best part is the epilogue at the end. Nice book for Sundays if your into atheism and criticize religion and divinity.
Aerial football was hilarious
