https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103817.Sharpe_s_Enemy
Sharpe's Enemy was one of author Bernard Cornwell's original books in the series.
Written in the mid-80s it has all the rough and raw qualities I've come to know and love about these books!
Sharpe's long-standing feud with his personal nemesis comes to a head in a satisfying way.
I'm not reading these books for their historical exactitude.
I just appreciate all the effort the author did make in getting the historical details correct.
If you like reading fiction set during the Napoleonic Wars, you've come to the right place!
This is perhaps the best of the Sharpe series, and I've read 14 of the 20 I know about.
He is, as usual, bedeviled by an arrogant aristocrat, Col. Lord Farthingdale, who knows nothing of fighting but is intent on imposing his will on Sharpe.The true evil villain, Sgt. Obadiah Hakeswill, shows up again in the company of a group of deserters led by the infamous Pot Au Feu, a French deserter.
Sharpe is sent to ransom Lord Farthingdale's wife who was also captured.
При всяка една война, неизменно има много дезертьори.
Често извършват неописуеми зверства, защото знаят, че така или иначе пощада няма да има, ако бъдат заловени.С такава банда, безчинстваща в Испания трябва да се справи майор Шарп точно по Коледа.Нападнали и унщожили село в хълмовете, те държат в плен съпругите на един британски и на трима френски офицери.Следва история за смелост, коварство и на пръв поглед обречена битка, но Шарп няма избор.
Защото съдбата му готви среща с неговия архивраг и само един от тях може да напусне бойното поле като победител!Много ми хареса, до среднощ я четох!
For my money, this is the best outing for Cornwell's titular hero. Mid-way through the Peninsular War British officer Richard Sharpe draws his sword for a showdown with arch-enemy Obadia Hakeswill before marshalling his meagre forces, including some new fangled rockets, to stave off a French offensive. Historical fact and fiction mixed to great effect with Cornwall's customary aplomb.
This is, in my mind, the most touching and enjoyable of the Sharpe series to this point. Fantastic.
I love this book, but then I read the afterword by Bernard Cornwell and he says it's even more made up than the usual Sharpe novel (you know where he steals a remarkable performance by a heroic soldier of the napoleonic time and gives it to Sharpe to take care of, pet, love and call it George?) in that neither the battle nor the place nor even the date is real, he just needed some fun over Christmas to set the British back a bit before they start their steamroller campaign through Spain and France and to the End of Napoleon Bonaparte.
Despite knowing that the events described didn't really happen, they nevertheless seem plausible, that such a battle at such a place like the 'Gateway of God' could have taken place and could have been a part of history.
While not as epic as the battle at the Gateway of God it felt more intimate and was perhaps more emotionally powerful for it, especially at the end.While I'm looking forward to reading more Sharpe novels (and more Cornwell in general) I feel that it might be difficult to find one that I will enjoy more than I did this one.
When 'Lady Farthingdale' is about to feed Sharpe and is all over him, hand inching up his thigh under the table where they dined with the French - only to have Teresa barge in.
"You'll have a steam musket, Jean.""And why not?" The first man had been carried away by his vision of the future.
You saw what happened this morning,""I could do with a steam whore right now."Can Sharpe ever be happy again with all he has lost during that Christmas of 1812?
Sharpe outdoes himself. Promoted to Brevet Major, Sharpe almost single handedly takes over a battalion, saves a great number of hostages from a strong deserter band, and despite a higher officer's desire to abandon the location,Sharpe stays and holds off the French long enough for reinforcements to arrive. His wife Teresa is killed by Hakeswill who in turn is killed by shooting squad with Sharpe delivering the coup de'tdad.
I've always preferred the mostly-fictional Sharpe novels. When Cornwell fits plot around historical events and has Sharpe casually winning some of the most famous battles in history on his own, it can sometimes feel forced and contrived. This is one of my three favourite Sharpe novels along with Siege and Regiment, because it's atmospheric, moody and chronicles a bitter, sordid private war. When Sharpe is allowed to escape history, he truly can be one nasty fucker!
This episode in the series of stories featuring Richard Sharpe was an exciting read from beginning to end. The fan of Richard Sharpe will recognize several characters from other stories in the series. This story was cleverly woven together in such a way that the reader was treated to some surprising twists that upon further reflection you would say that you almost expected it to happen. That makes this work especially enjoyable. This one of the best Sharpe books that I have read!
I always enjoy the sharpe novels but i feel this one desevered 5 stars as it was complete fiction. Aside from a few characters, all the events in this are entirly works of fiction with no bases on historical events. And so I deffinatly feel it deserved 5 stars for that alone. Want more, afraid you'll have to buy and read :)
Major Sharpe, is sent to pay the ransom of a British lord's wife after she was captured by an army of deserters, led by an old enemy. Major Sharpe finds himself a new enemy in the french spymaster Major Pierre Ducos.
Sharpe defending a pass into Portugal, and meets his nemesis Obadiah Hakeswill. Hakeswill is one of the more vivid villians out there.
Sharpe comes to the rescue of some damsels in distress and comes across an old enemy, there's also a promotion and a new weapon.
Sharpe just doesn't do well with women…Whoa, it's turnabout and turn again between rescuing the ladies and celebrating a lovely Christmas dinner cooked by their prisoner, Marshal Pot-au-feu, followed by some pretty tricky tactics.
A major, two captains, four lieutenants, 11 sergeants, and 165 rank-and-file to sneak in and hide.His wife Teresa , a.k.a., La Aguja, the Needle, leads a band of partisans and has a very high price on her head and pops in and out; she has a Christmas gift of Richard for their now-18-month-old daughter Antonia.
Sharpe stories are usually based on actual history containing generous figments of imagination.
Sharpe's Enemy steers away from that tradition as it is based on complete fiction with some figments of history.
Sharpe's Enemy has two major storylines.
The second storyline involves Sharpe defending strategically important posts in the face of overwhelming French odds.
Like Sharpe's Trafalgar, Cornwell tries too hard to place his man in a spot where is not supposed to be and it's not very believable.
I find it increasingly tedious that every high born officer who hates Sharpe is an incompetent military man.
I’m giving only 3 stars to this, not for the story or the writing which was every bit as enjoyable as any of the other Sharpe series, but for the performance (it was an audiobook).I love Richard Sharpe & always enjoy the books.
This one was not my favorite, but it’s by far the most heartbreaking & emotional one I’ve experienced yet.
It deserves 4 stars.
The performance however was hideous!
Frederick Davidson has done a superb job in the past, but not here.
One could obviously tell that he suffered incurably from a dry mouth throughout the reading.
I’d rather have read it!
December 1812.
Most of the story is fictional but several important historical pieces: Use of rockets, which 1st employed lated in the war, to not great effect (although in the book, they are when used on charging mass of troops).Rockets were used earlier, and 1st in War of 1812 against US and is basis for line in national anthem, "rocket red glare".
Also the bitter fighting between French and Spanish partisans.
A band of renegades led by Sharpe's vicious enemy, Obadiah Hakeswill, holds a group of British and French women hostage on a strategic mountain pass.
Outnumbered and attacked from two sides, Sharpe must hold his ground or die in the attempt.
I'm reading in historical order and this might be the best book yet which is saying quite a bit considering the quality of this series.
Sharpe's enemy is the vile Obadiah Hakeswell who had both Sharpe and Harper flogged, attempted to rape Sharpe's wife, and threatened to kill their baby.
Hakeswell is back as as one of the leaders of a small army of deserters, murderers, and rapists from several armies.
The rogues are holding the "wife" of Sharpe's commanding officer for ransom so Sharpe is sent on a rescue mission that turns into a much larger affair.
This is a good addition to the Sharpe universe. This book is set almost entirely on the battlefield. The story moves along well. It starts out as a minor assignment for Sharpe and then becomes larger and larger. Sharpe has a major victory, he defeats an old enemy, betrays a confidence in a good cause, and suffers a major loss. Several important recurring characters are present. He continues to win the respect of his superiors and his honorable enemies (as opposed to those who are lacking honour.)
Read God knows how long ago and just re-read.RIP Pete Postlethwaite. I used to see you in the sweet shop and remember you as Sgt. Obadiah Hakeswill. I don't think you ever gave any but a stellar performance but you were brilliant in this role.I was a little disappointed to discover this entire plot was made up, rather than Cornwell's usual shoehorning of Sharpe into the real episodes of the Napoleonic Wars but never mind, it didn't spoil it.
I have been reading this series in chronological order and have enjoyed all of the books I have read so far. This book was very satisfying to read, especially the ending where I said to myself "finally". I enjoy historical fiction and Cornwell has a knack for writing it. Sure there is a formula, Sharpe always gets the girl, but the descriptions of life in the British army and the battles are fascinating to me. About to order the next book in the series.
This is an almost entirely fictional entry in the Sharpe series, because it is oriented around an imaginary battle and battle site, with Wellington mostly invisible, but it’s an important book for anyone tracking Sharpe’s story arc. It packs a powerful emotional punch, mostly delivered at the very end, and it ties up a couple of very important plot lines for Sharpe. Enjoy. I’m still a bit in shock over the ending.
The usual elements of Sharpe novel are present here but, despite being able to settle an old score, this story ends tragically for him. As to Wellington's Peninsula Campaign, predictably, Sharpe and Harper outmaneuver and defeat a superior French force, saving "the Peer" from a serious military setback in late 1812. As always, Cornwell produced a highly readable tale chock full of action.
Sharpe continues his rise up from the ranks in this adventure, being bumped to Major and ending up commanding a desperate defense against overwhelming odds. He succeeds, of course (with a bunch more books in the series, that seemed a foregone conclusion) and manages to do in one of this long-standing enemies. But the victory is not unmarred; there's a personal tragedy lurking in there as well.
An enjoyable listen but not one of the better entries in this series. Set during Christmas of 1812, while not based on any actual historical battles, this book did include an army of deserters and the Rocket Corps from the pages of history. The audio was narrated by Frederick Davidson who I thought did a fine job.
A small story well told, with smoothly incorporated new characters who complement the returning and recurring ones. All of the battle ingenuity one comes to expect is present, as well as the deft and delicate turns of melancholy phrase that are a constant surprise.
One of the best in the series by far. Of course, I’ll say that any time Sharpe has to deal with Hakeswill who has to be one of the most loathsome villains in fiction. It’s an exciting entry, and masterfully handler with regard to rising tension and inevitable catharsis.
Maybe the best Sharpe? Fantastic enemies on both sides, a tense battle, some innovative tactics and wonderful action scenes, and Sharpe at his belligerent vulnerable wistful best. Read it before many times and this isn't the last.
