https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174547.The_Autobiography_of_Calvin_Coolidge
He didn't even know that "he wasn't supposed to do that" (at least by today's flawed standards), let alone quote scripture to make his point.
Now Coolidge wasn't perfect, but he was very principled and wise.
He served during a time where transportation was very slow, speeches weren't written for him, and everything was done using technology of the 1920's.
He humbly refused to run for reelection after serving 6 years (he was VP when Harding died in office) even though he was a sure bet to win.
He had a clear wisdom regarding debt that we should adhere to today.
That's why the strike was illegal.) The other is that as a state legislator, Coolidge was apparently considered something of a liberal by others in his own party.The chapters on Coolidge's presidency are the real disappointment.
Other biographies explain the events well enough to make it clear that Dawes was the one at fault--he insulted Coolidge personally, refused to attend cabinet meetings, and insulted the entire United States Senate collectively.
What a great book this is. A real study in character and humble beginnings. Coolidge was one of our lesser known presidents, but one who impressed me greatly with his emphasis on high values. I maintain an extensive website of President Coolidge, www.CalvinCoolidge.us, as a source of character and values and presidency education. I also wrote a play called "Cal - The Character, Wit and Wisdom of Calvin Coolidge" and portrayed Coolidge twice in a one man show.
Either they never learn how to work, or, having learned, they are too indolent to apply themselves with the seriousness and the attention that is necessary to solve important problems.” Such sentiments appear throughout the book, and Coolidge’s life itself exemplifies what can be done by a person who is industrious.Coolidge also notes the importance of historical knowledge for education, by which he means real historical knowledge, starting with the Classical Age, not gender studies or what passes for “knowledge” in the modern America.
In many ways, that such an American was once President is a reproach to modern America, which in both its government and its people has neglected every single virtue that Coolidge regarded as essential.
Must ReadA good book. A great man. Great to read about the man and life a hundred years ago. Must read.
Very informative on the role of a president. I just felt like it was a bit boring to read.
I really liked this book.
I don’t usually read nonfiction, but I picked this one up as a way to get into the Coolidge Scholarship program.
I actually ended up greatly enjoying the descriptions and scenes presented by one of our former presidents.
Normally books I am required to read I am bogged down by, but this one was good.
There is no doubt that Mr. Coolidge was a man of sound mind, who always considered all sides and was able to make great decisions for the country.
I will enjoy looking more into him and his life as I prepare to write the essays for the Coolidge Scholarship.
An understated gem. I visited President Coolidge's well-preserved homestead in Vermont recently, which led to my interest in learning more about him. He was wise, hard-working, pragmatic, and modest: traits that should be required of every White House occupant.He lost a child while he was President. Although he only devoted a couple of pages to it, I could relate to the feelings he described.
A surprisingly prolix memoir for a President famed for his minimalistic communication. However, I would've preferred to learn the details of Coolidge's life and career rather than read about his attempts to justify his actions as president.
Had to read for school. But it wasn’t to bad.
So far my favorite auto/biography of this really incredible and yet unassuming man.
Instantly became one of my favorite books. Amazing man, amazing life, wonderful family. This book is beautifully written, it was a joy to read.
More people should know more about Calvin Coolidge, not just the "Silent Cal" jokes. He was a good man.
Although President Coolidge was a man to admire and had some skill in putting words together, his book leaves you wondering how someone could have such a "perfect" life.
In reading this book one would think that becoming President was the most natural thing in the world, if you apply yourself and work hard.
In some ways, Coolidge's calm cheeriness is pleasant to see but somehow it seems dishonest to himself and the rest of the world reading his story.
Life is never perfect and we learn so much from the stormy parts - but then, maybe Calvin didn't experience such things, or if he did quickly forgot them.
Not many presidents would be willing or able to cover the entirety of their careers in roughly 240 pages (with wide margins at that), but Calvin Coolidge's famous brevity applied to the written as well as the spoken word.
The 30th president breezes through his life.
Coolidge devotes about a third of the book to his boyhood and education.
Coolidge's recollections of his public career generally don't contain that level of warmth or detail.
Coolidge doesn't fill his book with detail, but he still offers valuable insights into the formation of his distinctive character.
Coolidge was nicknamed "Silent Cal" for the reason of his brevity and straightforwardness, and there doesn't seem to be a wasted word in this short yet dense read.
I think both critics and supporters of recent holders of the office would learn from Coolidge's insights.
The book, written over 85 years ago, is dated, and has a sense of decorum the office of the President has lacked in my lifetime.
Also, likely out of a sense of said decorum, Coolidge barely touched on the scandals that plagued his predecessor (about two sentences, that felt like Coolidge's thoughts were, some improper things happened, but gentlemen shall not discuss such things).
Coolidge's autobiography was much more informative about his early life than his life in public office.
In particular, I found his description of his presidency to be much less interesting than I had hoped.
This was an interesting time in America, but unfortunately Coolidge chooses not to describe it.
There is a recent biography on Coolidge (by Amity Shales) that will likely be much more detailed than this slim volume.
My only other comment is that the writing was Coolidge's own, but he would have definitely benefited from a good editor.
One of my goals is to read a memoir or biography of every US president.
This year so far, I read Peter Baker's Bush-Cheney biography "Days of Fire" (5 stars).
Coolidge's autobiography is a quick read, about 150 pages in current day book.
Sprinkled throughout are his tidbits of advice to the citizen, which I enjoyed.
All men and women seeking the White House should take his advice to heart.
I most enjoyed the chapter on "Duties of the President." The book left me wanting to know more about him, so I have already added Amnity Shales' highly praised "Coolidge" to my to-read list!
Calvin Coolidge was a man of integrity, a respected President, and an able wordsmith.
I enjoyed most of his autobiography, particularly the early chapters where he gazes back at his youth."It was a fine atmosphere in which to raise a boy.
As I look back on it I constantly think how clean it was.
The roads, the woods, the fields, the people all were clean.
Even when I try to divest it of the halo which I know always surrounds the past, I am unable to create any other impression than that it was fresh and clean."(14)
Although I am still reading this book, I am not sure my opinion of it will change.
While I like to read presidential autobiographies, and I know that they can be very one-sided, this book never seems to bring up any issues.
Maybe it was because of the times or maybe its because President Coolidge felt it impolite to point out things that cannot be changed despite their outcomes...I am not sure but in a nutshell the book reads like this:"I learnt the law so I could become a country lawyer.
Very interesting. Probably the last president who had a truly traditional classical education, appreciated learning, understood the importance of classical knowledge, and applied it in his life and politics. He is under appreciated as a politician, a president, and a scholar. Historians, as much as a flock or a herd as any other group, do not appreciate Coolidge and his contribution to our political culture. His book, like Coolidge, is sparse, yet packed with observation and insight. I recommend it.
I knew little about Coolidge prior to reading this book. I came away impressed with his humility and work ethic. I wish the book had gone into far more detail about his days as president. Most of the book concerns his life prior to becoming president. Coolidge seemed like a nice person, probably on the quiet side,.
This is more of a simple philosophical book on Puritan life in New England than an autobiography. Coolidge hardly mentions any legislative accomplishments, but the insight into his humor and philosophy is told with great simplicity, and is well worth reading by Republicans and Democrats alike.
One of the best sources we have at understanding Coolidge's feelings about his life. He's very skimpy about his presidency and leaves out everything on specific events in those years. Still a valuable and well-written memoir.
Very well written. Whoever considers Calvin Coolidge as 'Silent Cal' is misinformed, and just plain WRONG. He had much to say and was eloquent and literate enough to say so! Read this book...you won't be disappointed.Gene4/26/11
Finished at last! This book is a dry read (for me) at best. However, it gave me insight to this man that I knew little about.
Endearing for its lack of pretense.
This was very interesting and well written. there is another book that he read called Letters to my fathers which I am going to get a copy of next.
Bland, but not bad as far as Presidential autobiographies. Nearly as good as US Grant's memoirs.
I enjoyed this book. Calvin Coolidge has moved up in the top 5 presidents of all and found the book simple and refreshing.
