https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7603.Reading_Lolita_in_Tehran
This book failed for me on a number of levels.
But for such a promising concept, and for a book which deals with so many serious and complex topics, it's facile and cliched.
Nafisi's analysis of the works of Nabokov, Austen, etc, was similarly shallow--it felt at times as if I were reading a poor collection of Cliff Notes.
The style is lyrical, but empty and frustrating.Overall, enough to interest me enough to seek out other books on a similar topic, but not enough to make me return to it.
It makes me angry because I think this COULD really be a good book.
It has a good premise, a lot of potential, and it's about a topic I'm actually very interested in and would like to know more about.
And maybe worst of all, it doesn't make me feel any more empathetic to the Iranian people than I already did and it doesn't give me any additional insight into Islamic culture that I haven't already gotten from Western media sources.Why did this get such good reviews?
Or do they just say what they think they're supposed to say because they were told this is a terribly important book about a terribly important topic by a terribly important person?
Nafisi said: "A great novel heightens your senses and sensitivity to the complexities of life and of individuals, and prevents you from the self righteousness that sees morality in fixed formulas about good and evil." I loved the concept of reading books from your frame of reference, that the women of Iran were comparing the themes of these books to their own lives, to the restrictions of marriage, to the laws about wearing veils, so that the books not only become a picture of this other world, but help them understand their own as well.
ثمة أمر غير مفهوم في منع هذه الرواية، ولكنني أعتقد بأن مزاج الرقيب غير منطقي مجملاً، وقد اعتدنا تلون الموقف الرسمي من الثقافة وممارسة مزيد من المنع والإقصاء لاسترضاء ورشوة ومغازلة أطراف أصولية.
الحمد لله على نعمة الانترنت، وقد قرأت الكتاب بضمير مرتاح جدا، ومتأكدة بأن آذر نفيسي لن تمانع.
ما أريد قوله هو أن هذا كتاب عظيم، إنه كتاب عن الأدب وقابليته لإيواء الإنسان وتحصين إنسانيته المسحوقة تحت وطأة الحذاء الثقيل للديموقراطيات الدينية المزعومة، والتي نعرف كلنا بأنها مجرد ديكتاتوريات بمكياج مبتذل.
هذا الكتاب وباختصار شديد: ضرورة وجودية وإنسانية وجمالية وإضافة حقيقية لكل مكتبة.ملاحظة: تم شراء نسخة ورقية قانونية لاحقًا حفظًا للحقوق.
Reading Lolita in Tehran: A Memoir in Books, Azar Nafisiتاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز سی و یکم ماه می سال 2005 میلادیعنوان: لولیتا خوانی در تهران؛ در 347 ص، به زبان: انگلیسی؛ لندن، فورث استیت، 1383، شابک: 0007178484؛کتاب لولیتاخوانی در تهران، چهار بخش است: نخست: لولیتا (پرسوناژ رمان لولیتا اثر ولادیمیر نابوکوف)؛ دوم: گتسبی (پرسوناژ رمان گتسبی بزرگ اثر اسکات فیتزجرالد)؛ سوم: جیمز (هنری جیمز، نویسنده مشهور آمریکایی)؛ چهارم: آستن (جین آستن، نویسنده مشهور انگلیسی).؛موضوع اصلی کتاب شرح و توصیف خاطرات خانم

Not to mention the memories of the women in her literature class, how they coped with the readings, one another, and their lives in Iran.The third layer, which for me catapults this book into a work of absolute genius, is Nafisi's theories on and explications of the books themselves, including how they relate to the struggles and culture of both of the above layers.

Part I - Lolita“Yet I suppose that if I were to go against my own recommendation and choose a work of fiction that would most resonate with our lives in the Islamic Republic of Iran, it would not be The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie or even 1984 but perhaps Nabokov’s Invitation to a Beheading or better yet, Lolita.”“What Nabokov creates for us in Invitation to a Beheading is not the actual pain and torture of a totalitarian regime but the nightmarish quality of living in an atmosphere of perpetual dread.
عنوان الكتاب مغري جداً، وخاصة للقارئ الغربي، فلوليتا – رواية نابوكوف الشهيرة – رمز غربي لجرأة الأفكار، وقدرتها على مصادمة القارئ، فأن تقرأ هذه الرواية الإشكالية، وأين؟ في طهران؟ فهذا ما يبدو محاولة للتحرر من إسار الوصاية بجميع أشكالها، ولكن هناك معنى آخر متضمن في العنوان، نفهمه عندما نقرأ رؤية آذار نفيسي لرواية لوليتا ولشخصية (هومبرت)، فشخصية هومبرت التي تتسيد السرد في رواية (لوليتا)، وتبدو لامعة، تعيد نفيسي قراءتها بطريقة بارعة، لتظهر وجهها الآخر، فهومبرت ليس إلا عجوزاً قذراً، يسيطر على لوليتا المسكينة ويغتصبها، ولوليتا ليست كما يظنها الآخرون تلك المرأة اللعوب، لا، إنها مجرد طفلة منتهكة، تنجو في النهاية من جلادها، وتفر بحياتها، فلذا هي بطلة مظلومة.
When these writers are banned and their books are burnt in Iran, it is exactly for the same reasons these same writers were once banned in the west.Of course, one feels quite suffocated when one reads the kind of restrictions that are imposed, particularly, on women in Iran.
But the book also tells that it is the new regime that has imposed these laws, Iran before the revolution has been radically different.Looking at the contemporary world, it seems absurd now that Muslim women are now policed and shamed in the same way, but for different reasons, not only in Iran but also in the most advanced nations of the world.
و به اصطلاح این جهاد اکبرش هست.و اگر فکر می کنید مشکلات و گرفتاری های زنان ایرانی که در کتاب خانوم نفیسی می خونید مربوط به اوایل انقلابه و الان اوضاع بهتر شده، ارجاعتون می دم به سخنرانی های چند وقت پیش یکی از ائمه جمعه که گفته بود زنی از دید اسلام خوبه که گوشه خونه باشه و کسی نبینتش، ارجاعتون میدم به گشت ارشاد و یا اسید پاشی های اصفهان.کتاب زندگی خانوم نفیسی و تعدادی از دانشجویان دخترش رو از اوایل انقلاب تا اواخر ریاست جمهوری رفسنجانی در بر می گیره، ینی زمانی که دیگه خانوم نفیسی تصمیم گرفتن از ایران برای همیشه برن.
And while I could see how the books connected, none seemed to resonate with the actual problems in the country as much as Lolita had.
I found the end dissatisfying, less connected than anything previously, and it had even lost what had made it charming to begin with- no longer was there an insightful discussion of novels, nor did I feel anything for the author or even the students much at this point.
تضع آذار النفيسي في الجزء الرابع من الكتاب وفي بداية الفصل الثالث منه يدها على أكبر مشكلات الكتاب ـ فيما أرى ـ بطريقة اعترافية واضحة، سلكتها في أغلب فصول الكتاب وبين ثناياه، إذ تقول: بدو أنني أكاديمية أكثر مما يجب، لقد كتبت العديد من البحوث والمقالات لكي أستطيع التعبير عن أفكاري وتجاربي بطريقة سردية محكية، لكنني مع هذا لم أحقق غايتي المنشودة .على الرغم أن ذلك هو هدفي: أن أحكي وأسرد وأن أعيد اكتشافي مع كل هؤلاء الآخرين، لأنني ما إن ابتدئ كتابة حتى يفتح الطريق أمامي فأرى الإنسان الزائف وقد استعاد جوهره، وأرى الأسد وهو يستعيد شجاعته، ولكن ليس هذا فقط، وليست هذه قصتي، فأنا أسير على طريق مختلف لا أستطيع أن أرى نهايته، ولا أدري إلى أين يمضي بي .......هكذا إذًا تسير آذار في ثلاث مسارات متوازية متقاطعة، بين قراءة نصوص أدبية بعينها ومناقشتها، وبين نقد الثورة الإسلامية الإيرانية ووصفها لحالاتها بشكل يبدو عابرًا ولكنه مؤثر وفارق، وبين عرض قصتها/سيرتها الذاتية، وحكايات طالباتها ..وهي في كل مسار لو أخلصت فيه لخرجنا بكتاب عظيم، ولكنها شتت الذهن ـ في ظني ـ بين كل هذه الأشياء دفعة واحدة، فخرجنا بـ أن تقرأ ...
I suppose I would have appreciated it more if I had read all the books that were referenced in this one.
And if I studied literature, studied the meaning of every scene, every characterization, every image from the books, I might have appreciated it.Unfortunately this was much too deep and a serious study of literature.
I enjoyed her accounts of life in Tehran and the characters in her book.
I enjoyed her personal accounts and her life stories.
I suppose if you're a serious student of literature this book is a gold.
Her reading of Lolita was wonderful and I like the way she able to bring her reading of this book, her reflections on Humbolt into the context of her own experiences in Tehran.
In a way, because America became such a central focus of hatred for the regime in Iran during the revolution she picked this material to demonstrate how biased and myopic this focus was, and how it failed to see the complexity of American life - i.e. that books like Lolita or the Great Gatsby were not recieved with one interpretation in America and that many of the criticisms leveled at those books in the Iranian context were also been discussed in America - i.e. that they were immoral or had flawed heros.She talks quite considerably about the difficulty of becoming as she calls it 'irrelevant' in her own country.
What a pity I've not been in touch with Amir over the last years.Anyway.Amir used to tell me a lot about Iran too and the same did a few years ago Ziba - a girl with Iranian roots - whom I met working as an estate agent.Ziba and Amir described me life in Teheran countless times, each with their own different views, telling me about their relatives there, the rise of ayatollah Khomeini and the fall of the Shah, Reza Pahlavi.
This book by Azar Nafisi gives an interesting portrait of the most turbulent period of Iran's history during the 1970s and the 1980s although coming from a sort of privileged narrator.

To read a book about women who read Lolita in Tehran is to open the window to a world of dismay, in which even an act so pure and simple as enjoying fiction is considered treason, punishable by the wrongly proclaimed authorities in your life.
I am constantly on the lookout for books which challenge my view of the world, or who have the power to paint a picture of another way of life, that I have been fortunate enough to never experience.
While I was reading this book, I was taken back in my mind to my college days. I enjoyed the philosophy behind the books these women studied and was unmistakably reminded of why I have always loved reading so much. I have not read all of the books discussed in the story, but many of them are on my to-read list, and now I am even more eager to read them.
I recognise that it's totally ridiculous of me to say that but I'm going to say it anyway (she did spend 17 years studying in the USA before the period of teaching in Tehran described here) Of course, I'm not here to defend the regime that, as Nafisi says, reduced the age of consent for women from eighteen to nine, prescribed death by stoning as punishment for adultery, disappeared its dissidents and spat out their corpses, not to mention exiled my friends, but I am sceptical that things were really so great before the corrupt clerics came to power, especially for people of a lower social class than Nafisi.
Are those the lackeys you are talking about, and is it in order to wipe these people out that we have to not protest?"Azar Nafisi has been indeed accused by leftist and Islamist radicals in the West of serving the 'imperialist' or 'neoconservative' cause by writing this novel.So once again the dreams of the people of Iran to enjoy the same freedom , Nafisi's leftwing critics in the West enjoy are denied.Like Humbert in Lolita, the Western Left want to confiscate the lives of the long-suffering people of Iran and shape them according to the formers own hopes and dreams.Like Humbert and like all great myth makers they try to fashion reality of their dream and end up destroying reality and their dream?Nafisi is a true feminist who really cares about the rights and welfare of women unlike so many left wing self-styled feminists in the West, who want people moulded according to their ideals, and have never spoken up for the persecution of women by Islamists, for their own selfish reason
This book completed that story particularly its impact on the ordinary people particularly on its main characters.Azar Nafisi, a lady author, effectively related her favorite modern fiction works (Lolita of Nabokov, Gatsby of Fitzgerald, Daisy Miller of Henry James and Pride and Prejudice of Jane Austen) in this tumultuous era of Iran's rich history.
The Iran-Iraq war happened at the height of the plot's climax interwined with the Henry James' novels particularly Daisy Miller.
This is the reason why I almost enjoyed reading all the pages of the book as I knew what Nafisi was trying to say through the characters she borrowed from the literary greats (Nabokov, Fitzgerald, James and Austen).
The long war with Iraq makes it even more important to her to nurture the life of the mind, and she returns to teaching at another university (this time with a veil).
To promote a more free discussion of literature, she starts a secret reading group in her own home, allowing an approach to more blatantly controversial novels, such as Nabokov's Lolita.
This class is where Nafisi's book starts and returns to as the narrative moves back and forth in time.

L'empatia e l'immedesimazione sono istintive: da donna a donna.La privazione di tutto, soprattutto dei sogni e del futuro, sono quello che le autorità iraniane impongono giorno dopo giorno ai danni delle donne in maniera particolare, ma anche a tutta una generazione alla quale, poco alla volta, credono di riuscire a far dimenticare cosa volesse dire essere liberi.Doveva essere bello leggere Lolita a Teheran, ma anche Orgoglio e Pregiudizio, oppure Daisy Miller, oppure Il Grande Gatsby guardando le montagne innevate, o in quelle piccole sale da tè mangiando un dolcetto ricoperto di miele.Doveva essere bello leggere Lolita a Teheran con il vento che scompigliava i capelli.Grazie a Azar Nafisi e alle donne come lei è ancora possibile ricordarlo.[commento in corso di lettura]Dentro un libro la storia: la storia intorno a noi.Leggere "Leggere Lolita a Teheran" e sentirsi dentro la storia.È di oggi la notizia di nuovi scontri all'Università di Teheran.Mentre leggo il romanzo biografico di Azar Nafisi, che narra della rivoluzione islamica e degli scontri all'Università di Teheran dei primissimi anni '80, mi accorgo che tutto cambia e tutto si trasforma, tranne qualcosa: ci sono popoli che sembrano aver perso per sempre il proprio diritto alla vita e alla "normalità".
Azar Nafisi's memoir about her life as a literature professor in Tehran the years following the revolution gave me a moving and painful glimpse into the lives of those who chafe under a kind of repression that I can only imagine.
She recounts with clear insight how her own revolutionary leanings and political naiveté gave way to a growing sense of dread as she realized that the political changes wrought by the revolution were much more of the frying-pan-into-the-fire variety than anything else.Like all good memoirs, Nafisi's account of her own struggles against the growing restrictions placed on her both as a woman and an academic gave me a powerful sense of what it must have been like for those women who saw their freedom snatched away in the name of a rigid ideology.
سألت إحدى قارئات تلك السيرة لم اعطيتيه نجمة واحدة قالت بسبب الملل لم أجد مللاً قط فيه بل روح نقية تسري داخل الكتابو وصف مستفيض أحبه بلغة جميلة في وصف جلسات البنات و حكاياهن عن الروايات و في نقد آذر لبعض الروايات كلوليتا و دعوة لقطع العنق لنابوكوف و غاتشبي العظيم لفيتزجيرالد و ديزي ميللر و ميدان واشنطن لهنري جيمس و روايات اوستن لم تقتصر السيرة على الأدب فقط بل على الحياة في ايران استطاعت آذر أن تمزج بين الأدب و الجمهورية الاسلامية قلقت بعض الشئ من آذر كونها متحررة كثيرًا و أنها من الممكن أن تكون قد صورت بعض مما حدث من اعتقالات و اعدام بصورة مبالغ فيها !
توحد بي عميقاً..أخذتُ أعيشهُ كما لو أنني إحدى طالباتُ آذر قرب نافذة الغيوم على طاولة الطعام والقهوة التركية المجيدة.!كيف يمكن لكتابٍ أن يؤلمكَ إلى هذا الحد، ثم يربت على جرحكَ الصغير.!
أن يقسو عليك حتى تستشيظ غضباً، ثم يخلق لكَ أكثر اللحظات حميميةً وتخيلاً.!!آذر نفيسي،لقد باتت هذه المرأة أماً روحيةً لا تنفك تهمسُ لي (ألا تخافي).!تأخذكَ إلى أروقة جامعة طهران (والتي اطلعت عليها حقيقةً عبر برنامج ال قوقل ايرث)، والجماعات الثوروية..
إلى ضياع حقوق المرأة بالكامل في تلك البقعة من الأرض..تأخذكَ إلى الرقص الإيراني، حتى تغويك لتفتح اليوتيوب وتعيش اللحظة المباغتة..

This was a book wich introduced me to Azar Nafisi and her life in Iran before and during the Islamic revolution.
I have to admit that when I started reading the book, I was slightley restless with the way she was describing each girl student who was joining her class at her house.
The way she described American novels and their main characters gave a lot of depth to the psycological atmosphere of opressing freedom in different societies.
