https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/848225.The_Artist_s_Handbook_of_Materials_and_Techniques
This book is great for anyone with technical questions about art supplies, especially art students with shitty teachers.
Ralph Mayer's Handbook is an excellent resource for practicing studio artists. I've referred to it many times over the years and would recommend to artists who want to expand their overall knowledge of art materials and their practical use.
Made obsolete by the internet, before that I found it very useful. Mine was the 1970 edition which is missing most of the really new art materials. Latest edition may still be OK if you are a Luddite without net access.(And how would they access this review?)
This is a technical reference book not a "how to guide", but covers innumerable artistic disciplines, the bulk taken up by: Oil Painting, Pigments, Solvents and Gums, Basic Chemistry, Artwork Conservation Issues, Studio devices and tools for the painter.Its left wanting in a few major area - principally of sculpting and Installation art.
These well overextend the areas covered by this book, though its hardly a drawback.Many people have complained about the lack of technical information about acrylic paints in this book.
Acrylic paint is not hassle free, but much less complicated by the definition of its very properties.I highly recommend this book to any artist who works in oils.
This resource book is a MUST in every artists studio....it comes in handy! More than you could imagine!!
A must have.
Text book from a college course that I added to my collection rather than seling back, it's okay, but not as good as my other one
the only book you need to learn everything you need to know to make art. well, the technical stuff anyway. art & fear for the rest of it.
A venerable workhorse, but important parts of this book are seriously out-of-date.This book is long overdue for thorough revisions.
Everything you ever wanted to know about the technical side of making art, and a whole bunch of things you didn't know you wanted to know.
It's great to have an explanation for many of the procedures and practices I've been taught. This is a manual of great worth.
Old or new, an edition of this is a must have for an artist.
Good reference. Must get the fifth addition if you're living past 1980.
The quintessential non-fiction book for artists.
Even if it's outdated (to you) if you work in some form of traditional media I think it's useful to have.
Even as a reference book I found that I could simply read it from beginning to end just for the interesting anecdotes and history found within.
Here is my favorite quote about a discontinued pigment from the 19th century, " [Egyptian Brown] Mummy.
Bone ash and asphaltum, obtained by grinding up Egyptian mummies.
It's use was suddenly discontinued in the nineteenth century when it's grisly composition became generally known to artists.(52)"
Viking.Citation by: Carlie CroweType of Reference: HandbookCall Number: Content/Scope: A handbook targeted to high school art students and covers drawings, pigments, and other forms of painting.
Included in the 784 pages of the handbook include diagrams, terminology, types of form, and techniques.Relation to other works: There are many other handbooks on visual art; this handbook meets requirements for the libraries that need a comprehensive handbook at a high school level.Accessibility/Diversity: This handbook is specific for high school students who are on a career path for visual arts.
All students can use this book when taking a visual arts class as well.Cost: $30.49Professional Review: L.S.H.
The Artist's Handbook of Materials and Techniques.
The Artist's Handbook of Materials and Techniques.
If there is any technique or material an artist wants to understand better, this book will do the trick. Every artist should own a copy, and non-artists should peruse it as well. You can't open this book without learning something.
This book is probably the best reference book for making art and all it's technicalities. I do wish there could be a newer edition as this was written in '94 and many new developments have been made. Many things COULD be added. Over all this book is one of the top on my "comes in handy" list.
i have the 1949 edition.. "acrylic paints are as yet untested"...
GREAT!
Excellent reference book for artists.
Such good information in this book, I feel like any artist can find one interesting thing in this book
I haven't really read it but I own it now and it's just a reference book.
I love this book. It's so technical but illuminating.
