https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10050.Youth_in_Revolt
His divorced parents are the pits - self-involved and negligent, and the unattainable goddess Sheeni keeps Nick at arms length, saving him as a sort of back-up plan if she can't get the man she really wants.
Maybe that's why I was just a brownnosing average student.) You may not like this novel, but for me, it was the right book at the right time.Nick's hijinks continue in two more books, but after 500 pages, even I've had enough of him for now.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ 3.5 Stars (rounded down instead of up because I didn’t like the reader of the audio)Meet Nick Twisp. He used to fantasize about how he would grow up to be “Nick the Prick” – a real tough guy. But ever since he met Sheeni???? Well, let’s just say Nick’s . . . .  And a bitch charming young lady most definitely is one. Now Nick will do anything to be with his true love and reach the milestone all pubescent boys dream of . . . .  Let me j
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ 3.5 Stars (rounded down instead of up because I didn’t like the reader of the audio)Meet Nick Twisp.
Now Nick will do anything to be with his true love and reach the milestone all pubescent boys dream of .
Nick is 100% offensive.
Michael Cera stars in the movie and he pretty much just plays Michael Cera in everything he’s in, so if you’re a fan you should definitely check this one out.
this book will ALWAYS be in my top five. there's no doubt that reading it at age 17 solidified my appreciation for this profane, hilarious, perverted, often ridiculous and grotesque piece of work. nick twisp's rampant hyperpolysyllabicsesquapadalianism had me reaching for the dictionary more than once, but in the end the rich vocabulary and originality in his storytelling kept me hooked even though the story loses steam towards the end.
Constant boners and mocking your middle-aged mother's appearance are not funny.
But Alexander Portnoy wasn't like "lol, my mother has blue veins!" He was like "lol, my girlfriend is ignorant and can't spell." Both mocks are mean-spirited, but at least one of them is mocking a quality that is changeable, thus coming off a little less than ragingly chauvinistic.But Rachel!
Isn't Nick Twisp just a 14 year old boy?
Is a 14 year old boy who can correctly use the words "suzerainty" and "inviolate" par for the course as well, then?
This was THE book that - cliche - changed the way I read books.This book was MY book. For years I begged people to read it because I wanted them to feel the obsession. It is extremely important that all teenagers/adults read this book. The characters are totally absurd and amazing, and this hefty 500 pager puts many "age appropriate" high school reading list books to complete and utter shame. This book destroys "The Perks of being a Wallflower" and others that were a hit back in the late nineties. Read this and get excited.
This book and I were destined to be together.We were first brought together when I was just 13 years old, rummaging through the discount shelves at Barnes and Noble in Indianapolis.
Not only could I not put this down, I immediately re-read it after the first read, and have read it again and again, nearly every year since.It's not that anything in the book is particularly realistic, but that's really why it's so captivating.
It's completely ridiculous and off the wall, and nothing in the book would ever actually happen.
There is nobody in the world who actually acts like Nick Twisp, but he's so damned entertaining to read about, I don't care.
Not your average coming of age novel, C.D. Payne's trilogy of short novels about the travails of young journaler Nick Twisp has a comic wit and intricate plot twists that can be enjoyed by people of all ages.This boy meets girl plot centers on Nick, a bookish, sex-crazed 14-year-old, and Sheeni Saunders, a Francophile sociopath who juggles men and has a taste for expensive clothing and jewelry.
Keeping them apart are Sheeni's ultra-religious parents and four hundred miles of California coast line, both of which Nick is desperate to trump by any means necessary.
But in saying that, I do believe I got a lot more laughs from Nick.While the book is 499 pages, don't let that deter you, it's split into three books.
It is one of the best books I've read all year.One thing I must add about this book is that it is extremely dated, but that just kind of sets the scene a bit more and I thought it added to the comedy of the book.I liked the ending of Youth In Revolt, it didn't leave a wide open ending and it didn't close it completely either.
Things get in the way, obstacles made of arbitrary parental actions and decisions, space, timing, his constrictive teen existence, his lack of economic freedom.I found this book very funny.
Nick's über-logical approach to things make him undertake courses of action that made me cringe and squirm and giggle (think fellatio with his best male friend), and it occurred to me that, had I read this book as an actual teen I would have been rather shocked.
I myself was as rational a teen as Nick is, but I wasn't one to brave borders and stand up to adults.
I knew that Youth in Revolt is a movie but I didn't realize it was based on a book until I saw the audiobook available at my library.
I have never watched the movie but was excited to try a slightly different book than I'm used to.
The book is a collection of journal entries written by the lead character Nick Twisp.
I thought this book was pretty hilarious even though the entries written by a hormone-crazed, fourteen-year-old boy were a little over the top.
He is in "open revolt" as referenced in the title.
This may cause some embarrassment to my family, but when your don gives you your mafia sobriquet you don't ask questions.Assuming that that paragraph alone did not convince you to go out and purchase Youth in Revolt, I shall continue.Nick introduces himself quiet plainly, leaving nothing sacred, unabashedly saying what every other boy in the world is thinking--he hates his name, he hates his family, and he is obsessed with sex.Now, I'm going to get it out there right now.
While I laugh and love annoying jerkish characters in many Adult Swim offerings (see: Aqua Teen Hunger Force & Frisky Dingo), those shows are so outlandish that the joke is how OPPOSITE of true behaviour the characters employ.
Cera was so hilarious in Arrested Development & Superbad at playing a smart yet naive,timid teenagers (with the character's intelligence creating the timid nature -- I can't do this because of the trouble I'd be in if I get caught).
But the lead character Nick Twisp in this novel is a smart yet naive, reckless teenager (with the character's intelligence causing the reckless nature -- I have to do this, because I'll never get caught...
Payne weaves a playfulness into his characters and their actions that makes for a story so interesting you can’t help but read to the end.Though the novel deals with boys around the age of fourteen, it is intended for an older audience.
Throughout his journey to reunite with Sheeni, Nick meets quite a few characters – some friends, many enemies, and some he can’t even identify.
After reading about the lengths Nick will go to for Sheeni, you’ll be rooting for him by the end.Perhaps the most unique twist to the story is Nick’s creation of an alter-ego, Francois Dillinger.
He likes coming-of-age-guy stuff (mainly movies and books).
I can see a few good moments to it, but overall, I think maybe you have to have been a teenage boy to like this.
But in past tense (like, I'm not sure a teenage boy should read it), after you've outgrown all that stuff and can see in hindsight that the way he talks is utterly stupid and disrespectful.
And yet, I've decided to stop reading.
The book is composed of Twisp's highly-literate (especially for a 14 year-old) journal entries, only Twisp uses all of his cunning linguistics (pun intended) to espouse on masturbation and the pursuit of intercourse - and what a pursuit it is.
Considering the quest to conquer virginity pretty much sums up the subject matter, you would think that Youth in Revolt might be a tad self-indulgent at 500 pages.
However, it's fitting, as "Self-Indulgent" might as well be our protagonist's middle name.
Not to mention that the book is laugh-out-loud hilarious on every page, as Twisp's adventures become increasingly outlandish with each journal entry.
Another 14 year old boy's love song to his penis. Yes, there are hilarious parts. There are also mean-spirited, self-aggrandizing parts. The adolescent male voice rings achingly, annoyingly, gratingly true here. Sometimes I was embarrassed to be giggling at what I was giggling at, and to make me feel like that is quite a feat. Parts made me want to crawl under my bed and never ever come out. Not recommended for mothers of teenage boys, though perhaps it's the hold your nose and drink type of medicine. I can't not recommend it.
„Buntowniczej młodości” nie udało się przetrwać próby czasu.
Mogłaby to być satyra, ale nie jest.
Mogłaby to być czarna komedia, ale nie jest.
Mogłaby to być klasyczna parodia, ale nie jest.
C.D. Payne wykorzystuje wszystkie te elementy, ale brakuje im wyrazistości, brakuje konkretnego kopa.
Nick Twisp ma potencjał, potrafi rozbawić, jednak częściej wywołuje naturalne obrzydzenie, bo jego przygody i seksualne perypetie po prostu utraciły kontrowersyjny smak wraz z nadejściem nowego tysiąclecia.
Dzisiaj powieść C.D. Payne’a to rozrywka raczej dla dorosłego czytelnika, który chciałby sobie przypomnieć nastolatków sprzed lat, poczciwszych, mniej wyszukanych, prostszych w swojej codzienności.
I'm now convinced sleep is for suckers and anyway tonight was a fine night to finish the book and write the review.First, some background.
This is the story, epistolary style, of a 14-year-old boy by the name of Nick Twisp.
When he read it, he was about 5 years older than the protagonist, and probably related to him in more ways than he'd care to admit now.
I'm 20 years older than Nick (oof, I need to let that sink in), and, in fact, closer in age to his parents.
I don't like double standards.While I did enjoy the story overall, I'm not sure who I'd recommend it to.
This book took me a full month to read, but I forced myself to slog through it in light of the Michael Cera movie adaptation.
(And that I paid for it and it's been sitting on my shelf for months.) I think the main problem I had with the book was the deplorable behavior of the main character, Nick Twisp.Nick is a 14 year old boy who really only cares about himself, sex, and computers.
(Nick and Norah was really fun, although I have not yet read the book it was based on.) This one is full of improbable stunts, masturbation, and unlikeable characters.
From that first line I was hooked completely.
One cant help but relate (hehe)!I loved Nick, as previously mentioned, but not so sure about all the different personalities.
dont get me wrong, I loved the whole situation there, just not sure if I loved her personally!
Sheeni was a great character, but thats all I can say for her.
She was a great character, but I couldnt stand her.
Vijay was one of my favorite characters until book 3 (Youth In Exile), when he stabbed Nick in the back.
Nick Twisp is a nearly pitch-perfect representation of the self-centered sociopathy and absurd arrogance of the intelligent teenager, taken to the nth degree.
What American Psycho's Patrick Bateman was to disaffected yuppies, Nick Twisp is to arrogant, neurotic high school-aged boys.The only problem is, I hate Nick so much that I can't face rereading the book very easily.
The sense of dissociation, the obsessive love, and the ability to be deeply self-analyzing without developing any real awareness all hit a bit too close to home for me.Nonetheless, as a piece of writing, the book is great.
God, this book was like soo painful to get through.
It took me like 3 weeks to finally finish it.
It's like 500 pages.
But no, I kept putting it off and finished the Jodi book in like 3 days.
Anyway, I forced myself to finish it and while I feel successful in finishing something that was painful, it just brought nothing new to my life.
Takes place in various places around NorCal and since the book was written in like 1994, I liked the dated-ness of it all.
And when the kids "alter ego" came into play, I had no idea what was going on for like 100 pages.
Curious about the movie of the same name, I figured I'd give the audio book of "Youth in Revolt" a chance.Maybe it's the audio book format, but the story of Nick Twisp wasn't one that had me hurrying back or eager to continue to follow his exploits in the next books in the series.
However, as the story goes along both he and Sheeni become more and more unlikeable, leading to my not really caring what happened to them by the end of the novel.
Maybe it gets better in future books but for now I won't be eager to try them to find out.
Oh to be 15 and awkward again.
Being a teenager is awkward, confusing, strange.
If you weren't born privileged, gorgeous, or a combination of both, chances are, the pretty guy or girl at the lake isn't going to fall madly for you unless you have a few tricks up your sleeve.This is a book for the nice guys who are tired of finishing last, the average kids who often have to contend with their exceptional peers, and if nothing else, a reminder to the hormone rage that no matter how much you want her, most girls aren't worth going to jail for.
As crazy as Nick gets, it still feels real.
Don't see the movie; it's a disappointment even with the hilarity of Michael Cera's portrayal of Nick Twisp's alter ego.
Nick spends most of the book pining after a cute, smart girl.
You see, Nick is just dying to lose his virginity – heck, even to kiss a girl.
The author must have kept a diary as religiously as his protagonist does, because he navigates through the mind of a teenage boy like no other writer I’ve ever read.
This book is hilariously funny and intelligently written.
Nick reads like a mixture of Salinger’s Holden Caufield, Philip Roth’s Alex Portnoy, and the actor Michael Cera, who played Nick the movie based on this novel.
While the overarching story deals with Nick's pursuit of the beautiful and elusive (and sadistic, in the way only beautiful and elusive women can be) Sheeni Saunders, Payne sets it against the backdrop of RV parks, labor strikes, cross-dressing, brushes with the law, neglectful parents, reincarnated dogs, and, oh yeah, lots and lots of sexual obsession.
It's a labyrinthine plot of double- and triple-crosses, romantic assignations too numerous to count, duplicitous friends, and questionable motives, but Nick's voice – sarcastic, profane, and erudite – is the north star guiding the reader confidently through the madness.
Nick Twisp, a thirteen, turning fourteen year old, writes in his journal everyday, and throughout his writings, he takes us on an six month adventure of his life, revolting through being an youth.
Nick questions things like sexual desire, girls, whether or not he likes his stepdad, going through puberty, and life in general.
Youth in Revolt is roughly around 500 pages, but is addicting, so it’ll be a fast read.
Youth in Revolt is even becoming a movie, and coming out in later 2009 starring Michael Cera.

Nichole MarcyYA - HumorC.D. Payne’s Youth in Revolt will have readers snorting and giggling like an insane 14 year old throughout the entire book.
Nick Twisp is the hero of his own diary and Sheeni is his leading lady.
He spends most of the time bouncing back and forth between his father’s house, where he lusts after his father’s 20 year old girlfriend and he is treated like a servant, and his mother’s house (the “Corndog Queen”) and her trucker boyfriend, Jerry.
Does Nick Twisp get the girl, or does his alter-ego, Francois end up in jail?
Nothing short of the new standard to which all life and literature in the universe should be compared!!!!
Seriously, it is hard to write something that feels authentic to a youth-adult audience and have it funny.
The setup: 14 year old Nick Twisp keeps a journal of his morbid, rabid, and putrid thoughts, schemes, and commentary on family, friends, and the love of his life, Sheeni.
Soon one thing leads to another, which leads to youth in exile (part 3), which leads to total chaos.It's a 500 page book you'll read in 3 days, honest!
