https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/695429.G_del_s_Proof
Highly entertaining and thoroughly compelling, this little gem represents a semi-technical but comprehensive and mathematically accurate elucidation of the famous (and so often misused and misunderstood) Godel's meta-mathematical results concerning the limits of provability in formal axiomatic theories.Being relatively short, this book does not expand on the important correspondences and similarities with the concepts of computability originally introduced by Turing (in theory of computability, particularly in the theory of recursive functions, there is a fundamental theorem stating that there are semi-decidable sets (sets which can be effectively generated), that are not fully decidable.
In effect, then, Godel destroyed the hopes of those who believed that mathematical thinking is capturable by the rigidity of axiomatic systems, and thus were mathematicians, logicians, and philosophers pushed headlong into a mysterious newly found chasm irrevocably separating “provability” from “truth”.The Heart of Godel’s Argument: The Formal K.O.(i) Godel constructed a formula G of PM that represents the meta-mathematical statement: ‘The formula G is not demonstrable using the rules of PM’.— This formula thus ostensibly says of itself that it is not demonstrable.(ii) Godel also showed that G is demonstrable if, and only if, its formal negation (not) G is demonstrable.However, if a formula and its own negation are both formally demonstrable, then PM is not consistent.
Success!More importantly for me, it was fun to try to connect neurons in my poor fuzzy brain, and for a math aficionado, entering a world where it's assumed that conclusions are merely the logical consequences of initial assumptions and nothing more is a bit like diving into mom's meatloaf -- familiar and comforting.Godel's theorem itself is supposedly the big revelation that upset the 19th century mathematics apple cart.
By the same reasoning, if you try to simplify a very complex proof, leaving out a lot of the messy details while trying to explain the rest in plain English, you're necessarily going to miss a lot and there will be important details that are missing.In this book, the concepts are simplified and the details are left out.
It was little touches like the chess analogy for describing the relationship between mathematics and metamathematics, the placing of the Richard paradox in terms that were more pellucid than the valiant effort attempted by Rebecca Goldstein, and the tricky, but effective, explanation of how Gödel Numbers were mapped, and how they were further configured to perform their quite amazing feat of transposing metamathematical statements about the formal mathematical calculus into the formulas of the calculus itself.
Perhaps now I'm ready for DFW's tour of infinity!A nifty bit of enlightenment was the discovery of how those endless hours spent typing out Javascript, VBScript, and ActionScript actually represented my own forays into a (much) more modest and elementary form of the logic that comprises the mathematical form wielded so expertly and shatteringly by the Mighty Gödel.
Ce genre de démonstration, on ne les comprends correctement qu'à partir du moment où non seulement on parvient à les refaire soi-même, mais en plus on a très bien assimilé les fondements sur lesquels il s'appuient: ici, ma patience ne va pas jusque là, et j'ai plutôt parcouru rapidement le texte que mis ma cervelle à l'alambic.Enfin, un texte d'un logicien français contemporain, assez acerbe et grinçant, dont j'ai le sentiment que le but est de dégonfler l’intérêt un peu exagéré que ce fameux théorème a pu susciter dans les sciences humaines, en soulignant d'ailleurs qu'il est fort peu important en mathématique, logique ou informatique.
Ce qui le font invoquent le doit à la métaphore, mais on peut aussi à bon droit les soupçonner d'imposture si la notion prise pour image est non pas une chose claire et évidente pour tous, mais un concept difficile qui en impose par son obscurité.
In other words, given any consistent set of arithmetical axioms, there are true arithmetical statements that cannot be derived from the set.Godel showed that it is impossible to give a meta-mathematical proof of the consistency of a system comprehensive enough to contain the whole of arithmetic—unless the proof itself employs rules of inference in certain essential respects different from the Transformation Rules used in deriving theorems within the system.
It follows that the meta-mathematical statement cannot be established unless rules of inference are used that cannot be represented within the calculus, so that, in proving the statement, rules must be employed whose own consistency may be as questionable as the consistency of arithmetic itself.
I have better context for what it means to "study math", but I'm still nervous."Gödel's Proof" was one of the first books in my fall "Learn Math" program.
Some areas I thought I'd understood before this book:- What a "formal system" is- What it means for a system to be "sufficiently powerful"- What the hell the phrase "foundational crisis of mathematics" really means;- How mechanical theorem provers work, and why it's a reasonable goal to try and write software that can assist with and verify proofs- What phrases like "theorem", "proof", "demonstration", "decidable", "complete" etc really MEAN when discussing formal systems.I read "The Little Prover" (https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2...) right before "Gödel's Proof".
This book is one of those rare creations in which its clarity and succinctness of presentation highlights the most important concepts.
Even if one is not interested in the theory itself the first half of the book is a must read by anyone dealing with mathematics or interested in the nature of truth.
Godel showed that this strategy cannot be used to demonstrate internal consistency, that the mathematics so derived is not always without contradiction even though that may actually be the case.
Consistency is just not provable by this sort of strategy.
This was an extremely difficult book for me. I understood so little of it on my own but luckily was reading it in school where I had people around me who were more mathematically fluent than myself to explain what the hell was going on. It was fascinating and frustrating and the basic ideas I gleaned from it were worth the headaches
This proves nothing.
Bab Lima ialah jantung kepada buku ini, iaitu hujah Godel sendiri dalam membuktikan bahawa,(∃y) ~(∃x) Dem(x, y) ⊃ ~ (∃x) Dem( x, Sub( n, 17, n))Nampak macam gempak, tapi sebenarnya kalau kau baca dari awal sampai akhir dan fahamkan maksud bagi setiap simbol, ungkapan ini sebenarnya bawa maksud yang ringkas sahaja.
Aku fikir Bab 5 saja bacaan aku terbantut sebab kena renung dan kena semak forum-forum di Internet untuk faham dengan lebih lanjut.Pendekatan aku dalam membaca buku ini ialah, pada bab-bab awal, terima saja seperti seorang anak yang baru belajar bahasa asing.
On one hand I am speechless by the ingenuity of the proof devised by Godel and what it signifies, while on the other I am disappointed with the authors for how insufficiently the legend's mind has been probed and represented in these pages.
For a book named Godel's Proof, this one barely scratches the surface.On the plus side, it was a very involved and difficult topic, and it was a bold undertaking by the authors to present it in a form consumable by the layman.
I sat through the earlier pages, consuming the wonderfully comprehensive background, only to find a fleeting glimpse at the actual proof.
Excellent explication of Godel's proof. I appreciate both the simplicity and accuracy of the account this book gives, and the fact that it does not take Godel and make ridiculous assertions about what is suggested by his conclusions, using Godel to endorse a vague mysticism or intuitionism. Wonderful book.
The first 80 pages are a breeze, but pages 80-92 need many re-reads.P.S. Remember to not miss-use the incompleteness proof to give sweeping and profound statements about nature of the world or other mumbo jumbo. Godel went to a great deal of trouble to write a very exact and general proof, do not desecrate his work to prove weird stuff.
This book makes you feel smart for understanding (a dumbed-down version of) the proof of Gödel's incompleteness theorem.
قضیه گودل نشان میدهد که هرچقدر خواسته باشیم ریاضیات را با فرمالیزه کردن به بند دراوریم، باز از بند میرهد.
در واقع هرچقدرهم به سیستم اصول موضوعی متنوع مجهز باشیم و در اضافه کردن اصول جدید هم مختار باشیم، باز گزاره هایی وجود خواهند داشت که نمیتوان درستی یا نادرستی آن را در این سیستم از اصول موضوع به روش فرمال اثبات کرد.
قضیه گودل نمیگوید که ریاضیات از عهده فهم ما خارج است (رویکردی نا امیدوارانه) بلکه بیان میکند که نمیتوان ریاضیات را محدود به روش خاصی کرد و نگاهی تک بعدی(فرمال) به آن داشت (رویکردی امیدوارانه).
**Consistência de um sistema**.Dado um sistema formado por um conjunto finito de axiomas, provando-se que esse sistema jamais produzirá teoremas contraditórios, então o sistema é consistente.2ª.
No fim das contas (que contas!) a prova de Gödel mostra que, se um sistema é consistente ele terá algumas proposições verdadeiras que não podem ser demostradas nem negadas.
Além disso Gödel mostrou que um sistema não pode provar sua própria consistência, a não ser que ele seja inconsistente.3ª.
O teorema da incompletude abre portas para discussões na área de filosofia da matemática e teoria dos números, como: é possível um computador pensar como a mente humana?
Qual o limite para a mente humana?
A fun and thought provoking read indeed, would recommend it to anyone who* loves paradoxical statements* would like to know more about mathematical logic
This “something” was elaborately introduced in the first half of the book: the agenda of Principia Mathematica (PM), to formalize/assimilate all mathematics into logic, where every truth statement can be expressed within PM can be deduced according to the Rules of Inference from the axioms, i.e. PM would be complete.
To prove against it is to show that PM is incomplete, e.g. to find a true statement expressed within PM that is not deducible from the axioms.
This idea of a proof include two key pieces: (1) this statement, say “s”, cannot be deduced from PM axioms, and (2) s must at the same time be true within PM.
James Newman, the editor/updater, says that this is an ironically incorrect conclusion, because 1) Godel's proof shows that numbers can be used to represent any statement from any system (including whatever humans use), and 2) computers can do more than just produce true statements for proofs.I tend to agree with the original author, however.
I feel I may not have understood Newman's points, because 1) Godel's paper showed only that numbers could be used to represent number theory and certain meta-mathematical statements, not other forms of reasoning such as human intellect.
I have pondered Gödel's famous proof since first hearing of it, but I could never manage the original paper.
Hofstadter's edition with his excellent forward is particularly helpful for understanding the continued impact of Gödel more than 70 years on.
The authors walk the reader through Gödel's argument with clarity; however, it is not a quick read and demands close attention by the reader, especially one like me lacking a background in logic.
I say 'beginning' because I returned almost immediately to the book's beginning to better grasp concepts that the authors had built upon.
Perhaps someday, after a few more readings of this, I will actually tackle Gödel's original.
I recommend this book for readers who want a clear and concise introduction to Godel's proof.
The book will be especially useful for readers whose interests lie primarily in mathematics or logic, but who do not have very much prior knowledge of this important proof.
Readers with broader interests, who would like to explore the larger implications of the proof for science or philosophy, may be disappointed that the book ends where it does.
Godel's Incompleteness Theorem is cited by many scholars who question some of the fundamental assumptions of science.
I've encountered Gödel's proof(s) in various settings -- once in a formal logic course and once in a philosophy of mathematics course.
Both times I was too far in the weeds to really glean the huge importance of his work.
It also places his work in the context of the mathematic research at the time which gives it much more meaning.
Aside from this, I think this book is very accessible to those with a moderate background in mathematics and for those, I highly recommend!It's also fairly short, and overall a wonderful glimpse into the delightfully perplexing world of logic and metamathematics.
Once there was a boy, a newcommer to university, who wished to construct a logical paradigm to explain everything in a crystal clear rational proposeitional structure. Then, when he seemed to be mostly achieved his goal, this book came out of nowhere and learned him the humbleness essential for an incomplete mind. It is a brief, very easy to read, and even pop/ordinary book. But I am deeply in debt of it, because I knew Godel through this, and he changed my life...
This was an unexpectedly quick read. I dove right in an found it to be quite rewarding and moderately accessible. It does a great about framing Gödels Incompleteness Theorem but also introduced me to a lot of the history of logic and many important concepts.
https://www.evernote.com/shard/s326/s...
A gently accessible and highly readable exegesis of what I feel is the most difficult text a student of philosophy can attempt to read. (Yes, much more so than Kant.)
قسمتی از جملات و مفاهیم که شاید در حدود ۳۰ مورد باشند به دلیل پدیدهترجمه، برای خوانندگان فارسی زبان کتاب به سختی قابل فهم باشندبعضی از حکایات چند بار تکرار شدند ....برای افرادی که با ریاضیات مسئله روبرو بودهاند، این کتاب از این رو میتواند جالب توجه باشد که بعد کیفی بیان مسئله را برایشان پر رنگتر میکندهرچند روشن است که این کتاب بهترین کتاب بیان قضیهیگودل نخواهد بوداما نه برای زبان فارسی....بدین ترتیب این کتاب فعلا اهمیت ویژه ای دارد***انگیزهمند ترین بخش این کتاب، برای منکه باعثشد به بیهودهنبودن خ
قسمتی از جملات و مفاهیم که شاید در حدود ۳۰ مورد باشند به دلیل پدیده‌ترجمه، برای خوانندگان فارسی زبان
Very accessible for mathlets such as myself.
Learning a new language. Fascinating.
