https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40130093-once-upon-a-river
Along the borders of this world lie others.There are places you can cross.This is one such place. This is a beautiful story. It's a genre-crosser: something of a historical mystery told like a fairy tale with magical realism. Everything straddles the line between reality and the supernatural, and sometimes it steps over into the fantastical, which might be surprising for fans of Setterfield's  The Thirteenth Tale. I think it works really well, though. I should point out that the story is very s
Everything straddles the line between reality and the supernatural, and sometimes it steps over into the fantastical, which might be surprising for fans of Setterfield's  The Thirteenth Tale.
I love fairy tales that open your eyes to the many "magical" things in our own world.The story follows many characters and is largely centred around an inn called The Swan.
The feel reminds me somewhat of 2012's  The Snow Child, but with a very different setting and a bigger cast of characters.Fans of quiet fairy tales about people and (maybe) magic should love this.
For those looking for a fast paced, plot driven mystery, you won't find it here, but for those searching out a unique story tinged with just the right amount of magic to keep you wondering if this story is indeed supernatural, let me introduce you to Once Upon A River."All she was left with when she rose stiffly and took her coat off to go to bed was a deep and impenetrable mystery.OUAR is the type of story that I could spend pages writing about the atmosphere and "feels", but I also want to take a moment to discuss the characters.
Armstrong was a gentleman who loved his family and was decent and kind even when there were those who were not kind to him.This book relies on folklore and the mystery of the missing girl.
Initially, while reading, I thought perhaps this book could use a little editing, but again, once I was finished, I appreciated knowing all the information and it all came together in the end!Keep in mind that although this book has mystery and some suspense, it is largely character driven.
This is not a book one should plow through or try to read in one day, take your time and again, no skimming.
I was attracted to something that I read about this book which describes an inn where people came to tell their stories.
There are many stories here to be told and I was drawn in from the beginning by the descriptive writing of the River Thames, the characters.
I always hesitate to use the word atmospheric because it’s used so often, but in this case it’s the best word I can come up with to describe the feel of this novel.Something happens at the inn known for story telling, the Swann at Radcot when an injured man and a little girl appearing to be dead show up.
Once there senses came togethor, they noticed in his arms was a puppet with a face and limbs and painted hair.The man was unconscious and they put him on a table.
They thought he was dead.
Then he noticed it was a little girl.
They thought she drowned and was dead.
Her eyes closed again and they noticed her chest was moving.
The book needs to be read slow, there was a little confusion for me, but then all the peices came together and it then becomes a mystery.
The book is part historical fiction, a little fantasy, magical realism, and mystery.
Once Upon A River is a dark, atmospheric novel, layered with folklore, magic, mystery and elements of the supernatural, thus I was immediately swept away by this eerie epic saga.
Here, Diane Setterfield examines mystical elements: she takes the readers away, and lets us escape to another time and place, to people who have special abilities, some of whom can see into the heart of others, some who may see things that we do not.
Once Upon a River is the first book I’ve read by Diane Setterfield and it won’t be my last.
Storytelling perfection! ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ I have read nothing like Once Upon a River. A more modern fairy tale? Quite a bit of suspense and mystery…and wonder…and charm…Once Upon a River takes place in a historic ancient inn on the River Thames in England. This inn is famous for its storytelling and its storytellers, and in fact, when a mysterious stranger with obvious physical injuries incoherently bursts into the inn with a commotion, stories are in the midst of being told. The stranger eventually pa
The stranger eventually passes out, but not before the body of a dead young girl is removed from his arms.
Questioning miracles, science in the age of Darwin, and magical powers; which one caused the girl to be alive again?I felt like Diane Setterfield was sitting by the fire in an ancient English inn telling me a story.
Sitting by that roaring fire, I snuggled right up into this book.
While it reads smoothly, it’s a chunk of a book, and it’s one you will savor.
So much imagination and inventiveness went into this gem, and it’s worth every extra minute of investment to get to the heart of the full story.
It is what looks like a young dead girl, but here the story starts it's twist.
Folklore has it that a man, travels the Thanks, ferrying to the other side those that have drowned, but returning to land those whose time has not come.So we mix folklore, with storytelling, and a mystery with some magical happenings.
We meet some people who have had tragedy in their lives, all with their own stories and how this young girl fits into them.
And always in the background the importance of stories and storytelling in our lives.ARC from Edelweiss.
The crowd is prone to storytelling, and no one tells a story like Joe Bliss, the husband of the Swan's landlady.
But that night a story all its own takes shape—a wounded man comes staggering in and collapses, caught by some of the men at the inn.
No one is sure what the little girl's connection is to the man, but a pall falls over the crowd at her untimely and tragic death.
But beyond the questions that arise about the little girl, this book tells other stories as well, revealing long-held family secrets, regrets, recriminations, and suspicions.This is a dense book with a lot of characters.
It takes place in England long ago astride the Thames River, which looms large in this story.The Swan is a family run pub where the preoccupation is telling a really good story.
A very large man roared as he stumbled into the door, face ravaged with bloody injuries and holding what appeared to be a large puppet of a young girl.
I've read another fine book from this author, "Bellman & Black", so already knew of Diane Setterfield's exquisite writing prowess, her brilliance in serving up a delicate supernatural flavor.
as this is a book to be savored on your own.
But then the child breathes after life was thought to have left her, and the story is set in motion for a tale with includes the magical, the mystical, folktales of yore, and a journey that takes the reader onto a path of intrigue, suspense, romance, and magic.Another child has gone missing these past two years and her parents have lived a life full of agony at their loss Could this child be their Amalia?
What about the man, the photographer, who pulled the child from the water?
3.5* A captivating story that will take you on a journey.A stranger walked into the local inn late one night, soaked, still dripping from the cold river.
The stranger is close to death and the child, already gone.
Suddenly her trained intuition is correct…as the child begins to stir.Everyone in the village comes forth, almost like a pilgrimage, to witness this possible miracle.
So who is this mysterious child?
And how did she ever end up in the river, only to be rescued by a stranger?Diane Setterfield writes a beautiful story filled with magic and mystery.
It's been a long time since a book has given me feelings of dread every time I picked it up.Although I've never read a book by this author, I was nonetheless excited to dive into this one based on the rave reviews for not only this book but for Setterfield's The Thirteenth Tale.
While the prose is without a doubt prolific, the story crawled at an excruciating pace with pages and pages of descriptive text.
Some have commented that the prolonged details are necessary in the telling of the story, I humbly disagree.
Through it all, Nurse Rita Sunday and photographer Henry Daunt, juggle between the factions, investigating and aiding, while their own stories complicate.
She knows how both the story and the trip will end but understands it’s really the journey that’s important.
In many ways, assuming this were all true (and, really, aren’t all stories based in some truth?), this places the events of Once Upon a River as perhaps the first of tales somewhere between fairytale and science story.
At the beginning, readers are introduced to the inn regulars who constant opine on the art of the story.
The main narrative drive of the book is derived from the injured stranger who bursts into an inn on the bank of the Thames one night, with a dead child in his arms.
However, there are so many other characters, threads, moments and subplots the book is teeming, nay bursting, with richly detailed characters and minutiae.
And those are all wonderful to read but when one seemingly throwaway moment returns to deliver an emotional gut punch, then you realise just how masterfully Setterfield has created this world and its inhabitants.
DNF. Too much magical realism and a fable-like quality to the writing. I do enjoy the genre on occasion but this is not the right time in my life to have the patience for it. I have too much going on.Perhaps I will try it again at some point in the future.
Beautiful storytelling!
A lost girl, about four years old, turns up at the Swan inn and tavern by the Thames river in 1887.
At first thought to be drowned, she revives but is wordless.
Who does she belong to?
An abused woman who lost her younger sister many years ago.
A couple whose two-year old daughter was kidnapped two years ago.Like the river that is the fluid, adaptable symbol for this Victorian-era story, this tale meanders at first, but gains force as it flows toward its compelling conclusion.
Full review to come.
Thanks to Simon and Schuster for the review copy!
As the man begins to bellow and sway, the patrons spring to life and grab hold of his burden before he slumps to the floor in a dead faint.
To their shock, they discover his burden is not a doll at all but the lifeless body of a 4-year-old girl.
Rita, the local nurse, is summoned and her tests also prove the girl is dead so the poor little thing is laid out in an outer building while Rita sees to the man's horrifying wounds.
When the wounded man recovers enough to speak, he can only say he found her lifeless body in the river.
ONCE UPON A RIVER beautifully and slowly unfolded as the mystery of the little girl was revealed and as we learn about the lives of the characters.If you enjoy a Gothic theme, and a story line with intriguing as well as odd characters, ONCE UPON A RIVER should be a book you will enjoy.
I do have to say it was a bit long, but Ms. Setterfield's marvelous storytelling skills make you want it to go on even longer especially once the mystery is revealed and you find out more about the characters.
Diane Setterfield has long been one of my favorite authors and her new novel does not disappoint.
ONCE UPON A RIVER was everything I hoped it would be.
Beautifully written (it seemed like I underlined every other sentence) and emotionally resonant (I cried several times).
It is the story of three missing girls and three desperate families, set against the Thames, and just as meandering and wondrous as the river itself.
One of its main characters--Robert Armstrong--has become one of my top three fictional men of all time.
Once again Diane Setterfield has delivered a true reading experience.
4.5 I just loved this book and it’s cast of characters!There is an Inn along the river called the Swan, where storytellers gather to drink and spin their magic tales on cold winter nights.
One night, in walks a terribly injured man carrying a dead little girl.
There are a few possibilities of who she could be.Some magical occurrence seems to take place regarding the girl, she’s actually alive, when previously thought dead by the local midwife/nurse.This story took me on a journey filled with magic, love, hardship, and a sense of peace also about when our time here is up.Recommended!!
New book from the author of The Thirteenth Tale! The publicist offered me an ARC, and I'm excited for this one, just from knowing it's from the same author. :)
The story takes place in a small English village located near the Thames River.
A young girl, who they believe is dead, is pulled out of the river.
You soon find that each character in the book is connected somehow.
We soon learn that other character in the book have also lost a child.
By the end of the book, the reader comes to learn the real circumstances behind each child’s disappearance and how they are all linked together.
I fell in love with the writing and the characters and was quite sad when the book ended as I wanted the story to continue.
One cold winter night, all of the regulars are gathered at The Swan, a tavern near the Thames, to tell stories, drink, gossip....the usual.
In his arms he carries a dead child....a little girl of about four years old.
But, then....either by magic or otherwise....the little girl comes back to life.
And, what happened to them that night?This book reads like a magical fairy tale.
The tale is really many stories within the story, as villagers try to piece together who this little girl might be.
I read this book a chapter at a time, letting the story build slowly over a few days.
But...Despite how lovely the writing was, the actual story left me bored out of my mind and I struggled to want to pick this up off my nightstand.
If this had not been an ARC that I had to review, it may have been a DNF.
The ARC galley I received is beautiful.
The cover, marketing, and stellar reviews are hyping this up to be a big book once it is released.
I know that many, many people are going to love this book.
Thanks to Simon & Schuster for mailing me a lovely ARC copy of this book in exchange for an unbiased review.
So beautifully written.The story captivated me from the beginning because of the authors amazing writing skills. The book was flowing in a slow phase with a detailed account on each characters' background. This tale is a mix of historical fiction, fantasy, mystery and magic which was coordinated in a successful manner.

This strange little girl seems to miraculously come back to life and to add fuel to the gossip fires, it looks like she is claimed by two different families as their lost daughter.
Her husband is overjoyed at the spark that the little girl brings back into his wife’s eyes and will do anything to keep it that way.And then there is Robin Armstrong, the wayward son of Robert and Bess Armstrong.
He seems to not care about this little girl but wants to claim her none the less.
This book is gorgeous, the writing is fantastic, the story is fun and like the fairy tales I loved as a kid, but the journey from start to finish is realllly slow.
There are a LOT of words, so I hate to think of all the work that goes into writing something so fantastic and then say "it's wordy", but I also imagine I am getting a little less patient with wordy, descriptive books.
I wasn't sure I was that satisfied by the ending either.I would give this 5 star rating based on the creativity, the beautiful descriptions, some quirky sayings and snarky prose which I LOVED.
this sounds something so real and true, yet.....something lost and far away. that sound though, to me.....is magic.I'm all in.
