https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/861991.Mystery_of_the_Tolling_Bell
I was appropriately worried at the stressful parts, intrigued with the colloquialisms of when it was written, interested in the dynamics between each of the characters, and always thrilled when Nancy solves the mystery and saves the day..
I especially found this one interesting when Ned scolds Nancy for her thoughtlessness.
It's a great mystery but there seem to be undercurrents in the relationships between Nancy and her father, Nancy and Ned, and Nancy and her friends-Bess/George.
I completed missed this in the revised text and was also too young to catch all of it as well.
Immerse yourself in the pages and catch the bell bug!Nancy and her pals travel to a resort town and encounter a man who admits, "I'm a stranger to this town myself.
Regarding bells, Nancy's new bell expert friend explains, "No two ring alike.
Nancy, while attempting to solve her latest case, also takes a part-time job, unpaid, at this "luncheon" place, looking for clues and talking to the bell man.
No, Nancy would never call names, but it seems like she often wants to behave badly in this book, which is really something to behold!
Reread for the 2017 Nancy Drew Sleuths convention in Ogunquit, Maine.So fun! My favorite part: semi-conscious Nancy dreams she's carried around by little brown elves. Though the dastardly cosmetics-cart salesperson is pretty funny too. Comparing the original and revised texts side by side: so much wonderful description is lost in the latter! Definitely recommend OT.
Great Nancy Drew book, as Nancy tries to discover what may or may not have happened to her father.
Mr. Drew recruits our detective Nancy, her prim friend Bess, and her tomboy friend George to help cheer Mrs. Chantrey up, enticing them into a vacation by the seaside rife with a mysterious cave, ghost, and bell-ringing.
Reading this novel, I can see why children like Nancy Drew.
While Nancy Drew basically exists outside of time, I was given to understand that these books had been updated to modern sensibilities of treating all people like human beings.
nancy drew and ned nickerson are wlw/mlm solidarity at its finest.
(3.6/5): One of the villains is named "Grumper" and Carson Drew is incapacitated by Ambien for 80% of the book
These books also make no reference to world events nor do they effect Nancy and her world; granted they have been updated, but still there is no mention of wars, depressions, drugs - anything that would've made this book more realistic at the time they were written.
I can't believe that young women, who were the target audience for these books were so naive that they didn't know what could really happen to a young woman alone in the situations Nancy found herself in.
These books are a good look back through rose colored glasses to see what we hoped times looked like.
But, wait, what was Tyrox doing that was specifically illegal?
In this lesser of the Nancy Drew books, Nancy busts Harry Tyrox for creating knock-offs of expensive perfumes at discount prices.
So why does Tyrox go the trouble of knocking people out (and, boy, an anesthetizing perfume would be impossible to keep on the shelves if Mon Coer just produced that instead) and kidnapping them to avoid their revealing of his scheme which is neither nefarious or even particularly immoral?
What can I say? Every once in a while a girl needs her Nancy.
This is neck and neck with THE SECRET OF RED GATE FARM for the best classic Nancy Drew book. Really bizarre imagery and much more interesting than you would expect a book about bell collectors to be. Plus at one point Nancy gets all messed up from chloroform or something and has a weird waking dream that she is surrounded by a group of squabbling gnomes. One of those amazing WHAT!!!! moments in the Nancy Drew Mystery Stories.
A New TwistThis book was a bit different than others in the series to date. The setting was interesting and Nancy's compassion for the problems of other comes shining through again with equal measures of mystery, action, and adventure coming in. Fans of the series will find this an entertaining story.
Nancy's father has been kidnapped. Good thing she's a great amateur sleuth and can solve any mystery thrown her way. Fast and entertaining read.
Even though these books are written for pre-teens, I LOVE them. I grew up on them. I'm hoping to have the whole series (yeah, right!! LOL). The book was well written and I loved the story line.
Another great volume in this series.
At the end of it, one of the kidnapping elves strands Nancy and a secondary guest star in the cave, which is about to flood, and is like "WE WILL ALL DIE HERE, AHAHAHAHA" and I'm like "shit just got real!" And then NED COMES IN WEARING A GAS MASK AND SAVES THEM.
Anyway, yeah.) He even saves the little dork who was about to just take all y'all down with him.So at the end of it, some of the money is recovered for the swindled people and the bad guys are caught, and Ned's like "girl you are a little pirate 'cause you stole mon coeur" and I'm like PLEASE GET MARRIED GUYS, MY HEART CANNOT DEAL WITH ALL THIS JOY.
What prompted my reading another one even though I am well beyond the age of the intended audience was Melanie Rehak's history of how they came to be conceived and published, Girl Sleuth: Nancy Drew and the Women Who Created Her, in which she confided that her favorite, read over and over, was Mystery of the Tolling Bell.The prose is so primitive that it's clunky, but the story keeps moving and keeps the pages turning.
Certainly the story is written to formula, but it's not a bad formula, and I don't see anything wrong with a young reader aspiring to be as smart and efficacious as Nancy Drew.
For one thing, the pages were not just yellow from age, they were almost sepia-brown.
The binding was literally "falling apart at the seams," and I was grateful (actually, amazed!) to find that no pages were missing.
Also, Nancy is described as having golden hair, unlike most of the later rewritten volumes, which portray her as having titian hair.As for the mystery itself -- it's typical Nancy Drew, with at least three interrelated storylines, all resolved in the last couple of chapters.
Nancy's father, lawyer Carson Drew, is prominent in the early chapters; the housekeeper, Hannah Gruen, only "appears" as a voice on the telephone.
Once I start, I just can’t stop!
3rd Nancy Drew mystery in 3 days.
This is one that starts off weird for me.
Can’t give a definitive answer as to why, but it does.
Anyway, once I inevitably got sucked in, I forgot what bothered me about the intro.
This one is even more harrowing than the last!
I give it 3 stars because of the slow beginning, and it was a little more “romance” driven I felt, and that took away from the story.
Love me some Ned Nickerson, but it detracted the story a bit for me this time.
In many of the mysteries, there will be several seemingly unconnected events that eventually Nancy puts together as one nice package Mystery.
Sometimes these fit seamlessly and sometimes it feels like they were forced into being connected.
This mystery felt to me like the best rendition of this so far.
The “random” events at the beginning did have me legitimately wondering how they could connect to the main mysteries, and then when they were brought together to form the bigger it picture it made sense.
I don't know if it was because I paced myself a bit more (I was distracted reader), or if this was legitimately better installment of this series, but I enjoyed this mystery a lot more than others.
The bad guys were interesting, the mystery was more interesting-even if still a bit contrived like usual.
Nancy has an uncanny ability to vacation where shenanigans are going down-but as a loyal reader, I have consistently suspended my disbelief and continue to enjoy these mysteries.
I would recommend this book to fans of Nancy Drew, or those interested in sampling Nancy Drew-you won't be disappointed!
I can no longer recommend Nancy Drew mysteries in general, and this one in particular.
Not only are they not politically correct, but Nancy is always investigating various criminals without any authority, weapons, communications gear, or backup except for Bess and George (and sometimes Ned).
Sometimes she doesn't even have a car!
In The Mystery of the Tolling Bell, Nancy comes within a hair of drowning because of her investigating, and only survives because of a deus ex machina.
These days, it's not a good idea to encourage amateurs to investigate criminals--they could get shot.
The Mystery of the Toiling Bell was a very thrilling story where Nancy, Bess, George, and Ned solve a mystery in a sea side town. Filled with mysterious ghosts, kidnappings, sad bells, and bizarre dreams this is a must read of the Nancy Drew stories!!
2017 Nancy Drew Sleuths Convention theme.It was so nice to dive into this book again and basically relive my childhood! I absolutely love these books, and this was a refreshing mystery read for me!
Two mysteries in one! Lots of fun. Follow Nancy and her friends as she unravels them both.
Notes:*Second read*A book where I could tolerate Bess*This is not a "mystery" book
I just discovered that the books I have been enjoying are the condensed version. YIKES!
This mystery was not one I remembered reading. It was ok. A little far fetched that they could figure out what was in the cave and then suddenly they find the missing Paul Revere bell! an ok from me.
This book was reread and it was equally fun at my 68 years than when first read I suggest to young parents with children to introduce them to this type of books to spark their reading habits
I love the Nancy Drew mystery series
