https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75835.Individualism_and_Economic_Order
This is a collection of essays, ranging from fairly topical (in the 30's) and technical to philisophical.
It is the latter kind which are of more interest to the layman (like myself) and fortunately these make up the majority in this volume.One of the most fascinating essays is the first, entitled "Individualism: True and False" in which Hayek clarifies what it means, dispelling many of the myths that are usually associated with it.
It can be easy to get lost in Hayek with his five page long sentences that change subject 16 times, but really this is a great collection of Hayek's writings. Especially "The Use of Knowledge in Society," the clearest and best structured argument for free markets.
The reason to read this is to see him develop his ideas in the context of the planning vs competition debates that roiled economics and politics during the years of the world depression.
The heart of this book, and the reason to read it, is the 90+ page "Socialist Calculation," where he carefully sets out how the seemingly chaotic system of free market competition is actually much more efficient than an economy that is centrally planned by the brightest lights in society.
Good economic critique of socialism, argument regarding the problem of macro calculations for central planning was the strongest.
Not so sure of his argument that the main problem with socialism is its practicality and thus its application, as opposed to the theoretical aspect being wrong.
Seeing that socialism is an economic theory as much as it is a political ideology, its foundations lay with central planning, which relies on economic principles to ensure it works.
It is as if he ignores the mathematical economics surrounding the theory of socialism, seeing the two as distinct.
Despite this, his arguments are good.
While the writing style is turgid and verbose, the intellectual content is superb. The key essays are "The Use of Knowledge in Society" and "Economics and Knowledge". It's worth buying the book for those two essays alone.
.
The best essay i've ever read. Just perfect
Interesante ensayo en el que se describe los principios básicos del individualismo, además de la des
How The Superbowl Encourages Socialism:http://generation-add.blogspot.com/20...         <
What are the philosophical roots of individualism? How has individualism manifested in Western culture, and what debates remain? These are the questions addressed by an excellent set of selections and excerpts compiled into this reader published by the Cato Institute. With sources ranging from Mill to Augustine to Spooner, the perspectives are provoking and seem thorough. On Liberty was my favorite selection, but not new to me. I also enjoyed content by Oscar Wilde and in several later selections addressing religious and social issues.
I LOVED this book. It was a bit heavy economic language and referred to people that I wasn't familiar with but I was still able to get the message. Which is basically central planning fails because there is no way for a central planner to posses all the information that is necessary to make good economic decisions because this information is spread out among different sections of society. Also, central planning crushes individualism.
.
Too hard to understand
It contains the essay "The Use of Knowledge in Society," the most important economic essay of the 20th Century.
