https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5665.Ideas_Have_Consequences
I guess what disappointed me was that instead of focusing on the general theme that ideas have consequences, this book focused on what ideas (trends) the author feels contributed to the fall of western civilization.Weaver's idea of the ideal society, seems to me anyway, to be a medieval monkish state of mind.
Technology tends to say "because it can be done it should be done"6)Modern man tends to think of consequences in terms of his "rights", not his "obligations".7)Media strives to tell you what the answer is, aiming you at specific ideas, rather than presenting different sides, etc.
(Jazz solos encourage individual freedom from the structure of the music so they're bad because that's egotistic, etc.) But can't egotism be good sometimes?
Before The Closing of the American Mind, there was Ideas Have Consequences.
Weaver – rhetorician, Southern agrarian sage, and a founding father of the postwar conservative revival – published this spirited disquisition on the Western intellectual tradition.Part jeremiad and part prescription, Ideas Have Consequences argues that the 14th-century “defeat of logical realism [by nominalism]…was the crucial event in the history of Western culture.” With philosophical realism undermined, the Western world gradually retreated from its belief in universals, first principles, and transcendent truths.
Weaver’s interpretation of William of Occam and the universalism-nominalism debate is a question for medievalists and philosophers.
An interesting test case for consequentialist morality versus “yuck reaction” absolutism.' (I sometimes wonder if Dawkins is just trolling at this point.) In any case we have knowledge - we can cultivate human meat in labs.
An interesting test case for consequentialist morality versus “yuck reaction” absolutism.' If you think this is wrong – if you have an immediate visceral reaction to this – then you understand why knowledge needs virtue.
(As an aside, Our Posthuman Future: Consequences of the Biotechnology Revolution offers some interesting discussion about the relationship of knowledge and virtue.)I also agree with his statement that human societies need to have some form of hierarchy in place to work, though it is not immediately obvious to me what form of hierarchy would be best.
This is a book written in 1948 that tries to diagnose the ills of our time.
It reminds me in many ways of C.S. Lewis' Abolition of Man. Weaver believes at the root of our troubles are changes that began in the 14th century by Willam of Occam who propounded the idea of nominalism.
These ideas are pervasive in the way we tend to view reality, in politics, religion, art, etc.
It's a critical book.He makes quite a few generalizations about our modern age, some of which I don't find convincing, but I think this book is worth reading and thinking about.
"There is ground for declaring that modern man has become a moral idiot.”"We approach a condition in which we shall be amoral without the capacity to perceive it and degraded without the means to measure our descent.”
Top ten.
Great title, but densely boring content, unless you’re seriously in the mood for your annual shot of of philosophy, but don’t expect anything applicable or practical in real life.
Book #19 of 35... A very terse read and sometimes hard to follow, but I understand why it’s recommended reading in some of our corners of politics .
An amazing book, honestly.
Many of the ideas propounded in the book, I had heard before and kind of taken as my own because they sounded right.
However, this book explained the reasoning behind those ideas and really opened my eyes to what I had been blindly believing before.
Equality is a bad thing, democracy is harmful, and Ideas do have consequences no matter how innocent they seem.
This was the book that gave fuel to my senior thesis.
It has proved invaluable and will continue to do so, I am sure.
I do not agree with everything the author says but all of it is extraordinarily insightful.
In the late 1300s, Weaver argues, the momentum shifted from the former to the latter, and it has remained with the materialists ever since.We are now, Weaver claims, reaping the final fruits of the materialistic worldview.
The replacement of transcendent values with ephemeral ones has been abetted by the emergence of a massive propaganda machine, the Great Stereopticon, to communicate the ideals of the materialistic worldview.In the final three chapters, Weaver outlines a strategy for the recovery of value, using as a beachhead the one metaphysical right that has escaped destruction: the right to private property.
I was expecting a political diatribe, but this book is book is not just a curmudgeonly rant, but a deep philosophical discourse on the problems with modern society.
True, I often disagreed with his premise, namely that modern man is a 'moral idiot' compared to mediaeval man because of his faith in empirical science and historical progress.
However, I couldn't help but marvel at how prophetic some of Weaver's pronouncements about modern society are, especially about the state of education and media which is even more true today than in 1948.
Tightly-written short book on the philosophical origins of the postwar traditionalist conservative movement in the United States. Weaver opens by stating in a matter-of-fact tone that "this is another book about the dissolution of the West." Weaver attacks moral relativism insistently, suggesting that the "denial of everything transcending experience means inevitably…the denial of truth. With the denial of objective truth there is no escape from the relativism of ‘man is the measure of all things.'"
In a way, this book is a metaphysical contextualisation of the political battle between conservatism and liberalism.
In Weaver’s mind, the decline of the West began when Nominalism won out over Logical Realism in the late 14th century.
Having lost faith in a transcendental reality, the West abandoned intellect in favor of the empirical.
Without such a scheme, politics become a dull, technocratic procedure rather than an invigorating debate about the right way to live.
Lacking this debate, society has no glue because there is nothing of identity at stake in politics or society at large.
This is a profound book. It is a heady essay of philosophy that penetrates many of the ways we have put together the modern world. Weaver speaks as a modern prophet even though he has been dead for 50 years. I recommend wading through this book and taking its prompts to think and consider how the world is ordered.
Livro intrigante. Apesar de eu não ter tanta firmeza nas conclusões do autor, não tenho como negar que estão no caminho correto.No mínimo o livro me fez pensar bastante. Sim. É um bom livro para ler de pouco em pouco e pensar bastante a cada pausa.
I have seen everything.
My video review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L95EM...
Quotes: “Man is constantly being assured today that he has more power than ever before in history, but his daily experience is one of powerlessness.”“There was a time when the elder generation was cherished because it represented the past; now it is avoided and thrust out of sight for the same reason.” “There is no correlation between the degree of comfort enjoyed and the achievement of a civilization.
On the contrary, absorption in ease is one of the most reliable signs of present or impending decay.” 3/5: A good diagnosis and critique of the modern worldview.
I have read this book a dozen times before, yet it still manages to say some things newI was hoping that this book would be more of an argument against Marxist materialist history (which dominates much discussion today, as Prime Minister Justin Trudeau put it regarding getting to the 'root causes' of Islamic terrorism, as if the true cause must lie outside of an ideological one and be the product of social inequality, disfranchisement etc).However, the book is more of a critique of one idea, nominalism, having consequences (the decline of the West).
But his post WWII analysis of cultural decline was worth the time.
As I read, I did not just think about our cultural decline, but I thought about my family, my church, and my own life.
The book is great reminder that the West did not start dying in the sixties, as so many conservatives would like us to believe.
Finally, the last section of his chapter "The Power of the Word" is a critique of education at the time and an apologetic for classical education and poetry as part of the remedy for our disease.A great book!
Rightly so.Sample chapter titles:Egotism In Work And Art.The Great Stereopticon.Fragmentation And Obsession.Weaver's treatment of the corruption of language, of "the spoiled-child psychology", of many other things, is the most satisfying reading experience I've had in a long while, even as his agrarian Southern sensibility can be strangely semi-reactionary, semi-lib in regards to women, to woman to keep the note -- "priestess" whose equalitarian zeal makes her no better than a man serfing away in a factory.
In the mass of units, after all, I'm only 1/16 of a complaint behind two interceding management companies and an unlisted landlord.
Mass, faceless, and corporate at its most personal defined.
I found this book a real labor to read.
I think if he were writing today, this book would be more straight-forward in style.
I felt like the author lived in his head and peered down upon the rest of humanity.
He made disparaging comments about American soldiers in World War II.
So what was he doing while they were fighting?
I think he was around 32 when America entered the war.
I had to keep reminding myself that he is writing in 1948, because so much that he wrote seems more applicable today than it was when he wrote it.
It is an intrusion of a bygone era into the miasma of modernity.
It is no wonder that the left loathes Weaver.
His is a prophetic voice of denunciation against the tides of modernity assaulting human dignity and personhood.
Weaver argues that the Nominalism of William of Occam has opened the floodgates of relativism, egotism, and sentimentality upon the West, with little traction left for a revival of traditional values.This is a remarkably dense book.
Just don't jump to the conclusion that he's a hopelessly irrelevant conservative and that our age knows better than the vision of tradition that Weaver so admires.
Written in 1948, this book offers a prophetic account of how modernism will lead to the collapse of Western civilization. I freely admit I was lost on some points (dangers of jazz?), but overall this is one of the best books I have read. Weaver offers up counter actions to our predicament, primarily through resisting semantic manipulation, a liberal education, knowing our history, and securing private property. Sixty years later his positions are still valid; one could argue that stronger measures should be taken to save our collapsing culture.
Sobering to think this book was written in 1948.
Weaver talks about the decline of our society with the clarity of a prophet.
From the back cover: "The catastrophes of our age are the product not of necessity but of unintelligent choice.
It lies in the right use of man's reason, in the renewed acceptance of an absolute reality, and in the recognition that ideas--like actions--have consequences." It was distressing to realize as I read that we are getting dumber as a society all the time, less able and inclined to think, and so the decline seems unstoppable.
I'm also enjoying this at times very challenging, at times revealing analysis of our culture. Different to The Twilight of American Culture and Poetic Knowledge, maybe a cross between them in terms of being more contemporary like The Twilight... but also more philosophic like Poetic Knowledge. Three good books to read close in time.
Read this back in December 2006 and remember how incredible it was.
An everlasting work. One could say work of "social commentary," but to do so, I think, would be to limit its importance and scope.
Contra isso, ele propõe que os homens são livres, que o mundo é inteligível e que todo mundo age segundo uma cosmovisão – e se sua cosmovisão é a nominalista, ferrou.Talvez você, como eu, tenha crescido achando que nosso tempo é o máximo, cultivando aquele desprezo pelos medievais com suas cidades sujas, fogueiras queimando gente e padres pedófilos.
É por isso que as amizades definham nas megalópoles, por exemplo: toda relação entre as pessoas é medida pela utilidade que elas tem, não pela maneira como elas se encaixam no nosso drama.Capítulo 2: Já mais polêmico, Weaver argumenta que o igualitarismo moderno, o fim das hierarquias e das distinções é também evidência do fim dos universais.
In Ideas Have Consequences, Dr. Richard Weaver sets out to define a traditionalist or reactionary worldview situated in opposition to the modern world, which he situates as a claimant if not always avatar to progressivism.
Weaver opens by illustrating the ways in which, starting during the Early Modern Period and growing precipitously afterward, the notion of "progress" and "modernity" slowly displaced and then corrupted the traditional Western worldview.
Weaver posits that the abandonment of the past as exemplar, religion as moral guide, and truth & knowledge as fixed & knowable led directly to the collapse of Western society, and that only by a return to these values might the West be saved.
