https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/475235.The_Room_on_the_Roof
A fantastic book. Dehra - its hills, bazaars, street vendors, lakes and all the simple charms of a small town. The best i have read of Ruskin Bond. It makes you rethink about your life, slow down and value the simple pleasures of life.This book is simply profound and profoundly simple - one of the best i have read. I wish i was Rusty, the protagonist :D
4 Stars Full Of Freedom!!!  This book is about Rusty who runs away from his guardian house to live with his Indian friends. His guardian hates Indian, considers them to be inferior but Rusty found true love and friendship with his friends. This book shows a lot of different aspects of villages in India. From the described natural beauty of Dehra to those hospitable families, everything is shown so well! So part were funny when Rusty was with his friends and some parts where emotional (view spo
This book is about Rusty who runs away from his guardian house to live with his Indian friends.
His guardian hates Indian, considers them to be inferior but Rusty found true love and friendship with his friends.
From the described natural beauty of Dehra to those hospitable families, everything is shown so well!
So part were funny when Rusty was with his friends and some parts where emotional (view spoiler)[like when Meena died and Mr. Kapoor married again.
(hide spoiler)]A great book , overall.
Loved that feeling of freedom which is shown, hence 4 stars full of freedom :DThanks for the recommendation, Arpit :)
Friendship. Love. Innocence.Ruskin Bond at his best. The writing is fluent, mature and memorable. Such tenderness.
3.5/5My first Ruskin Bond book and I'm surely going to read more by him. Coming of age simple narration (semi-biographical) by an Anglo-Indian. Loved the stress on friendship and individuality.Thanks for the reco Arpit.
A beautifully observed rite-of-passage story set in Northern India not long after independence.
The Europeans exist in a fantasy world, surrounded by their carefully-tended gardens and cherry trees, waited on by servants, they avoid the ‘Indian’ quarter: “They knew there was a bazaar and a real India not far away but they did not speak of such places, they chose not to think about them.” But the outside is all that Rusty can think about, so he runs away to make a new life and become part of the real India.
In his five decades of writing career Ruskin Bond has lost track of number of books he has written, and he is still active in the literary field enriching them with the tales from Himalayas where he has spent most of his life.
This book portrays Indian in its true bright colours, may it be a bazaar, fields, people bathing at a well, or a railway compartment.This is the first of many adolescent novels featuring Rusty.
Coming to think about it, there was nothing much about the story :)This could have happened in the next street (& gone unnoticed). And that’s the beauty of this novella. I began, thinking it’s going to be boring, but found it quite interesting. Simple & Good.
If you are a Ruskin Fan just like me , you definately need to read his first book. If you want to judge it as a strict reviewer you will not give it more than 3 star I guess. But if you a teenager and reading a book that you can connect with to much , you will love it . Read this one ! And don't forget to discus your thoughts with me. Thank you
You cannot get enough of it.His description of the surroundings transport you to the the hilly regions,lush green forests,scent of flowers.It is like walking "The light spring rain rode on the wind, into the trees, down the road" bringing an exhilarating freshness to the air.Even when I had never been to Mussoorie or Dehra, I used to imagine being at those places, walking the hills like Rusty did.This is a coming-of-age story of Rusty, a lonely anglo-indian boy,about friendship,love,innocence and growing up in the hills as he discovers life after stepping out of his cocoon.The story is inspired by Ruskin Bond's own adventures and much of its content is autobiographical.He weaves a charming tale with beautiful description of the lively bazaar.
Despite being such an amazing and well recognized writer, he chooses to stay in a cute little cottage in the hills,writing stories about people from the hills and places nearby.
sometimes restraint can be liberty and to surrender is freedom .I appreciate the fact that Bond never agreed to change that part in further editions stating that this book was by an adolescent about adolescence and he don't want to change it .A brave an honest decision considering the char is based on Bond himself .but how much I love Ruskin sir ,I can't bring myself to like Rusty or justify that single action and those couple of paragraphs .except that single part, this book was one of the finest of Bond ,I have read till date (hide spoiler)]for Ruskin Bond:Giving two star to this book is heart breakingBut nobody dies out of heart breakso,I will surviveTo read another book by Bond To again fall in love with his work To again visit that beautiful Room on the roof In some other story ..in some other book when there is no Rusty in that room but only Bond..Ruskin bond ,my favorite author :)
Rusty, a sixteen-year-old Anglo-Indian boy, is dissatisfied with life in the declining European community at Dehra Dun… Unhappy with the strict ways of his English guardian, Rusty runs away from home to live with Indian friends.
Plunging for the first time into the dream-bright world of the bazaar, Hindu festivals and other aspects of Indian life, Rusty is enchanted...and is lost forever to the prim proprieties of the European community...
A heart touching story. An anglo-Indian boy who does not remember his parents encounters the beak of adolescence and the uncertainty of what lies ahead. like always this will have a special spot in my heart because this is what made me love reading in the first place.
Ok ok read Ruskin bond is a excellent author ..I didn't read his books earlier but when I started reading them I couldn't stop reading it .Story-The Room on the Roof is Ruskin Bond’s masterpiece of adolescence and coming of age. Written when the author was seventeen, it brilliantly describes the hopes and passions that capture young minds and hearts. A moving tale of love and friendship, it has endured as Bond’s most beloved novel.
Another amazing read and this time it's a novel about adolescence, a search for identity, a quest for self and understanding the complexities of life..!!The novel starts with the smell of the fresh earth in the mountains of Dehra after the first drizzle of rain welcoming the season of life- the Spring.
The story unfolds itself and we are introduced to the protagonist Rusty- an Anglo Indian boy who lives with his strict guardian as he had lost his parents in his early age.
He is portrayed as a very lonely character who wants to escape from the mundane life spent with his guardian.
Ruskin Bond's first book when he was only SEVENTEEN. Who writes so smoothly at 17? I wonder people even write such books anymore. This book has everything in it; death, love, sadness, anger, friendship. Such emotions weaved into words and this book is just out of the world. You got to read it if you haven't yet. The illustrated edition is so very colorful and fun to read. Really loved all the paintings inside it. Everyone should read this book before they die or give up reading. It brings back a lot of memories of childhood. Mesmerising is the word.
Cannot believe he wrote this when he was seventeen. So beautifully written. The scenes so well-described, and feelings so effortlessly expressed. Loved the simplicity of it all. I was lucky to get this book autographed by him :)
Those are the poetic non-words between the sentences that all friends feel.Growing up, seeing life in a light of one's own eyes, here goes hand in hand with the rhythms of nature.
This book will show teenagers how to find a way to see life, battle its injustices and feel nature in its sensuous and mysterious play.Questions pored over by teenagers/ young adults seem far more important than the ones by adults.
Ruskin Bond's works are the literary equivalent of quiet walks through mist shrouded hill stations. And  The Room on the Roof  is probably his crowning gem. Written by Bond when he was seventeen years old, it tells the tale of a lonely teenage ango-indian boy called Rusty. Brought up under the harsh Victorian discipline of his European guardian in Dehra Dun, Rusty eventually rebels and breaks free. He discovers the true flavours of India and the convoluted meaning of friendship in a noisy earthy
Written by Bond when he was seventeen years old, it tells the tale of a lonely teenage ango-indian boy called Rusty.
He needs to explore what he himself expects from life and has to face the mental trials and financial tribulations that every insecure young adolescent goes through during those hellish years.While this book promptly falls into the YA Lit. category, it could most definitely belong to a standalone genre that can best be termed as "Ruskin Bond Lit." Time slows down, dragonflies buzz lazily around your head, sunbeams peek through the shade of a banyan tree and nature comes alive in inimitable Bond style.
I would describe this as Spring or like flowers or dew drops after rain. It was so pleasant like a breath of fresh air.... Rusty you have captured my heart. Rusty a young boy of seventeen finds adventures, home, friends and a new life in the bazaars of Dehra after running away from his guardian. That is the crux of the story..Simple but beautiful....Read with Arpit and Sundara.
Read this book during my school days, and I still remember everything from the story. It was such a great experience, because these few books are the reason why I started reading more and more novels!!!
It's a good read. Kiddish at times, especially when you consider the age of the author. And too subtle for my taste, like you don't feel extreme sadness when people die or bad things happen... could have had more emotions.Still, I enjoyed reading it.
One of the most beautifully written and heartfelt novels I've read. Outstanding achievement for a teenage author (back when Ruskin Bond wrote this).
Blasphemous as it may sound...but my first ever Ruskin Bond book. Absolutely loved it!
Ruskin Bond is anytime Read !The story teller charms the reader with his simplistic narration of the tale. The book is a bit of biographical work of Ruskin Bond's teen years. Tells us about love and thick bond of friendship between Somi, Kishen and Rusty.A Very Short narrative , with lots of visit to Chaatshop and the characters that comes to life, this book is definitely a very GoodRead !!!
He was shut out from all that is Indian and was surrounded by things that are believed to be a part of the English way of life.
Just an innocent narration of a life that had taken a tortuous path with myriad of emotions along its way.The characters are passionate, guileless and singular.
Before he knows, Rusty finds himself among people who value things that are worthy of valuing and he loves his life.
I have wanted to read something (anything) by Ruskin Bond for a really long time now and I am glad I finally did.
I was not sure about this particular title, though, thinking it might turn out to be immature in terms of both topic and style.
Reading The Room on the Roof was a wonderful journey and I truly enjoyed every word of it.
Written in a wonderful style which makes the story flow like a seemingly peaceful river, I could not be but sad when it all ended.
Luckily, there is more to read by Ruskin Bond and I am definitely not finished with this exceptional author.
'The Room on the Roof'.
It revolves around the adventures of Rusty just before and after he leaves his tyrannous guardian's home.
Although he lived with him just on the outskirts of Dehra, he had never really been into the town.
That is, not until he met his new friends- Somi, Ranbir, Kishen and others.
This book provides an insight into the 'bazaars' and life of semi-urban town in India.
Choosing this book would be a good choice for all the adolescents out there, provided they are interested in looking for themselves as a character.
'The room on the roof' is worth reading! The story keeps you hooked with many unexpected incidents and takes you on a short trip to your childhood.Written by Ruskin Bond when he was 17 which was partly based on his experience at Dehradun, India.The novel revolves around the imaginary character Rusty an Anglo-Indian created by Bond. There are 4 other novels and short stories about Rusty.
Superbly written! The way Bond describes different emotions is fantastic! He was able to capture the moods and feelings in a simple yet subtle way. And to top it off, he was seventeen when he wrote this!! I need to go through more of his work! :D
After reading this, i feel more inclined to reading the writing of Bond. His writing is so much closer to perception of nature. He touches the genuine and true emotions of any situation. I like his honesty. There is nothing superficial about it.
