https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/672948.Arch_of_Triumph
It’s a love story and grief story; it’s Paris of expatriates, cheap brothels and shabby cafés; it’s hotel International, mecca for fugitives from every corner of Europe, with its rooms embellished with portraits of fascists or their democratic counterparts, depends on whom current exiles are; it’s sea of calvados, nocturnal wanderings, ambience of nostalgia and decadency and harbinger of impending disaster.
And sometimes it doesn't work.Remarque masterfully rendered city at the brink of war, inhospitable hotel rooms like poor substitutes for homes, brothels with its makeshift love, sordid cafés you can hide in before loneliness.
The setting is 1938 Paris, nervous about the unrest in Europe prior to the start of World War II, and filled with expatriates and refugees of many nationalities.
Ravic is an accomplished German surgeon, and having fled Nazi Germany, he is living in Paris without passport or documantation.
Amid all this turmoil, just when he should least expect it, he falls in love with Joan, an actress.
The characters are few in this novel, really Ravic and Joan drive most of the stories plot, so Remarque has time to fully develop these very interesting characters and this intriguing story line.
An exiled German doctor living in Paris in 1939.This had all the indicia of a great novel and it was very good, I enjoyed reading it.
The first half sets up the plot of a German, Ravic, though that is not his real name – he is literally a man without a country; Germany has exiled him and France will not recognize his medical license because of his political status.
такие книги нужно и хочется читать, чтобы ценить свою жизнь.
Ты берешь прямо за сердце и не отпускаешь до конца.Как всегда главный герой Ремарка и его друзья - люди высокоморальные и заслуживающие лучшей жизни.
Беженец Равик (это его ненастоящее имя, но какая разница?
Тем не менее он работает, нет, спасает жизни пациентов."Кто ничего не ждет, никогда не будет разочарован."Это было про Равика, до тех пор, пока он не встретил Жоан.
Он наполнился ожиданием, а значит надеждами, хотя даже себе он не мог в этом признаться.Но любовь у них получилась сложная, ох какая сложная...
И как обычно Ремарк не изменяет своим традициям - в его книгах много алкоголя.
Trebala bi postojati neka kategorija za knjige koje su poput ove- van kategorije... Pet zvjezdica je ništa.. Oduševila me prije 20-ak godina, a oduševila me i sada.. Uživala u svakoj rečenici u dubokim mislima, opisima, samoj priči...i, naravno, calvadosu... ;) Ne znam jel' do mene, ali mi se čini da se ovakve knjige više ne pišu.. (ok, čast izuzecima.. )... Bila i ostala jedna od mojih omiljenih knjiga svih vremena..
All of this explains why at the beginning of the story he is stateless, without papers and living in France, Paris to be exact.
Ravic has one aim beyond simply surviving, to get revenge on that Nazi who has tortured him and those he loved.
This theme turns the book into a crime novel and the tension mounts as you reach the end.
I came to understand Ravic.There is another central character - Joan, who he falls in love with.
I loved the narration, and I highly recommend listening to this book rather than reading a paper copy.And the ending?
One of my favorite books. Remarque at it's best. This book transforms you back in time to post war Paris. You can small the dusty streets, cigars and Calvados in the air when you read it. It will leave you nostalgic and hungry for true love and romance straight from the vintage 30s.
Remarque has a great humanistic way to tell a simple story, while inspiring a greater idea or a state of mind.
While Arch of Triumph is definitely mainly a love story between German refuge Ravic, and wannabe actress Joan Madou, it is also a dooming testament to the injustices of life.
I really liked the characters in this one, which are mainly Ravic and Joan, since the plot is so centered on the love story.
Because the Arch of Triumph stands at the end, sometimes gloomy, but always magnificent.
this is a later addition: i think of books read this year, ones that might become rereads- become 'comfort reading'- and this is a prime candidate.
thinking of it in comparison to llosa's feast of the goat, which is perhaps more literary in shape, in writing, but this is the one better recalled and more likely to be read again.
i did not think to like this book, as it is long, it is not uniquely told or structured, not surprising characters or plot.
it is almost like reading two books, as the first half is heavy in dialog, thus easy to read, the second half more description, more thought...
"Який божевільний світ: ти можеш обернутися в архангела, в блазня, в злочинця і ніхто цього не помітить. Та коли у тебе відірветься гудзик – помітять всі"."– Того, що забудеш, потім бракуватиме ціле життя, пане, – сказав він– Правду кажете. А те, чого не забудеш, обертає життя в пекло"."Якби не мрії, ми б не могли витримати дійсності"."І тут кохання. Одвічне диво. Воно не тільки осяває барвистою веселкою мрій сіре небо буднів, а й може оточити романтичним ореолом купу лайна"."Ніколи ще життя не було таке коштовне, як сьогодні, коли воно так мало коштує..."
Kai turi ką pasakyti.Vieni įdomiausių dialogų buvo tarp Raviko ir Morozovo, įdomių minčių jie besikalbėdami pažerti nepagailėdavo, o ir pati jų draugystė gana iškalbinga, juk vis dėl to rusas ir vokietis, nors istoriškai ir ideologiškai paversti priešais, buvo draugai ir juos siejo tvirta, tikra draugystė, o jų atsisveikinimo scena tikrai suspaudė širdį, turbūt net labiau nei su Žoana.Labai užstrigo vienas epizodas, kai Ravikas kalbėjosi su viešbučio šeimininke jai keičiant paveikslus kambariuose.
Daugelis dalykų tiesiogiai beveik neturi įtakos pagrindinio veikėjo gyvenimui, o ir jis pats kartais net nublanksta tuose jį supančiuose epizoduose, bet visa ta raizgalynė puikiai perteikia atmosferą, o šį kartą ant Antro Pasaulinio karo slenksčio stovintį Paryžių.„Paryžius užtamsintas.
Nav jau vairs daudz ko teikt. Remarks ir ģeniāls, ja jāraksta par cilvēcību, vientulību un cerību. Karš salauž cilvēkus. Nākamā manā Remarka sarakstā ir - ''Lisabonas naktis''.
Bởi càng về sau, những mảng miếng, những mảnh ghép về cuộc sống, tình yêu, suy nghĩ, tâm sự của nhân vật chính và con người ở thủ đô Paris những năm sắp chiến tranh sẽ càng hiện lên rõ nét hơn, sống động hơn, xót xa hơn.“Khải hoàn môn” là câu chuyện về một thời kỳ đen tối của châu Âu những năm 1938 – 1939 khi cựu lục địa đang phải đối mặt với nguy cơ chiến tranh đến gần, và một vài lát cắt sống động, chân thực của thời kỳ ấy, của cuộc sống nơi lục địa già, mà ở đây cụ thể là Paris, Pháp, đã được gói gọn lại trong hình hài cuộc sống tị nạn của một vị bác sĩ phẫu thuật tài hoa, mà thậm chí cái tên “Ravic” anh dùng để xưng hô với người khác cũng chỉ là cái tên giả thứ 3 anh sử dụng để che đậy thân phận thật của mình.
Невероятно чуткая, трогательная и пронзительная книга.Очень сложная и без пафоса драматическая роль героя книги. И казалось бы ворвавшаяся любовь и новый смысл жизни его вылечит, но не так проста жизнь...Еще более интересен внутренний мир и суждения главного героя сквозь призму царствовавшего на то время бесчинств, беззакония и топтания прав человека в Германии. Страдания и лишения нормальной жизни доктора просто не могут оставить вас в стороне. Но самое больше подкупает, как несмотря на все это герой соблюдает здравость духа, чистоту суждений и остается честен перед самим собой.Очень хорошая книга.
4.9/5 I mrekullueshem, frymzues,jehone universale kunder lufterave, edhe ne epoken me te erret ka gjithmon nje fije drite qe na mban gjalle.

I put this book aside to read A Lady's Life in the Rocky Mountains but I was already getting tired of it and I'm not in the mood to finish it right now.
The story is about a German refugee living in Paris during WWII but before the Occupation.
He had been a surgeon in Germany but as he is living illegally without papers, he has to take whatever work a few French doctors give him work that they don't want to do such as trying to save a woman's life after a botched abortion.
I found this all very interesting, how he had to live a solitary life, on the fringe and under the radar.
I'm just going to say that 'til now this is my favourite book of all times..
Paris is always popular. The prose in this translation is often poetic. WWII is looming and almost everyone knows it. A great deal of alcohol is consumed.
Arch of Triumph: http://readwithstyle.wordpress.com/20...A huge fan of Erich Maria Remarque as I am, surprisingly I hadn’t read two of his most famous novels – Arch of Triumph and All Quiet on the Western Front.
In a world where nothing is right, where humanity has continued on the path to self-destruction, and where hopelessness and despair become everyday sentiments, Remarque’s fiction is a reminder, a sort of wake-up call to beauty and love.
Arch of Triumph is a story of the difficult path of spiritual, moral and physical preservation in a world of political persecution and uncertainty of what tomorrow might bring.Read more: http://readwithstyle.wordpress.com/20...
Nu vă apucați de cartea asta dacă treceți printr-o despărțire.
Nu vă apucați de cartea asta dacă sunteți puțin depresiv.
Dar mai ales, nu vă apucați de cartea asta dacă nu vă plac lucrurile care încep atât de bine și se termină la repezeală.
Am trăit cu lectura asta care m-a „molipsit” de tot felul de stări.
S-ar putea ca părerea mea să fie prea subiectivă și influențată de mai multe circumstanțe.
Dar eu am vrut un alt final, unul mai „puternic”.
Într-unul dintre noi poate fi aruncată sămânța despărțirii, în timp ce suntem fără apărare.
I was blown away by this book.
It's set in the illegal refugee community in Paris during the second world war, and the protagonist is a not too sympathetic doctor, who practises illegally for pittances, drinks himself down more or less every night because of his insomnia, has casual relationships when he doesn't play chess with a Russian refugee friend of his, has countless political discussions and can't seem to stop thinking about all the really big issues of life.
Tristă cartea, dar mi-a plăcut foarte mult: trăirile sufletești ale dr.
Ravic, gândurile și starea pe care o avea de la o zi la alta.
Trist atunci când mereu trebuie să fii pe fugă, trist cu toată nebunia războaielor și tot ce au avut să îndure oamenii de pe urma lor.
Trist e să te îndrăgostești de o femeie și ea să nu se mulțumească doar cu tine, ci mereu să o vezi la braț cu un alt bărbat.
Trist, dar totodată plin de speranță mi-a părut finalul.
Trist să citesc oricare altă carte despre lagăre de concentrare, deportare sau război.
Now for the Film with Anthony Hopkins:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eAFAf...Bettie's Books
Rediscovering the books that I read when I was too young. Read in 2 nights. One of my favourite books definitely.  It was like I could almost feel how the author felt when he was writing it.  Everything is so complicated and yet brought to us so simply. Must read.
Reading this novel was devastating, heartbreaking, and heartwarming. It's now one of my treasured books.
Kompletna knjiga.
Puikaus autoriaus, puiki knyga. Rekomenduoju.
Non torna indietro l'ora che si è vissuta Remarque descrive qui, con essenzialità ricca di poesia, un mondo nascosto: gente in fuga dalle persecuzioni naziste negli ultimi anni trenta del secolo scorso (inquiete, delle ombre andavano in su e in giù. Erano gli emigranti senza documenti, la brigata degli illegali). Così Ravic, chirurgo illegale a Parigi, deve fare i conti con una vita sempre al buio e allerta; costretto, per sopravvivere, a non stringere legami né a provare affetti, a sollevare
Non torna indietro l'ora che si è vissuta
Così come non torna indietro l'ora che si è vissuta.
E, su tutta la vicenda, la malinconia della nebbia, della pioggia fine, del grigiore delle brume, delle ombre serali, dei profumi sfatti e delle note di un violino,come riflessi delle emozioni e degli umori umani.
E l'Arco, sempre a dominare con la sua solennità maestosa.Straordinario, come sempre, Remarque, nelle descrizioni dei sentimenti, delle emozioni, della gente, degli ambienti, e nel dipingere un mondo sommerso, ma attivo e coraggioso.
Ma questa è solo una mia impressione....nel grigiore della pioggia fine...
Absolutely excellent!
At first, after reading half way through I gave it 4 stars.
Remarque put human face on pre WW2 Europe and France in particular.
The characters, their life stories and pre war spirit of that time builds up tension and anxiety in the reader.
It is more than a love story.
In fact, I think love story is not central point of the book.
It is there to examplify one of the inevitable feelings and to support the main underlying theme of how important human life is despite seeming small and insignificant in the face of upcoming tragedy of war.
