https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70561.The_Gulag_Archipelago_1918_1956
Solzhenitsyn systematically goes through the horrors of the Soviet slave labour camps, one of the blackest chapters in world history.
I read this book as a teenager, not long after it came out, and I was appalled that my parents had presented the Soviet Union as anything other than a monstrosity.
If you feel any shadow of sympathy for Soviet Russia, read Solzhenitsyn and you will be cured.
Solzhenitsyn recounts a comparatively minor and unknown incident from the revolution, where Lenin brutally orders some railway workers to be executed for not fully cooperating with the Bolsheviks.
As he comments: just for this one episode, Lenin fully deserved to be shot.
I can not in clear conscience say that I really like a book about Soviet Gulags. To be honest, I repeatedly reached my limit of emotional energy. The story of any one of the 20 million people directly affected would have more impact.Oh, right. He tried that first, One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich. In a lot of ways, this a response to critics and deniers of his earlier book.
I can't take a stand on this but so far as I can see it's not antisemitism it's simply part of the book.
It was intended to be a comprehensive history of Jews in Russia.So far as THIS book goes I still recommend it and suggest as I do about all books that it be approached while thinking.
Given its historical importance, I fully expected that The Gulag Archipelago would be a lofty read.
What I didn't expect was that it works so well as a story.
Instead of being a straight history book, Gulag lies somewhere between journalism and history, and Solzhenitsyn's narrative voice is familiar and engaging.
The book feels less like a history lesson, and more like a conversation with a good friend who knows how to put together and express an interesting, important, heartbreaking, and unforgettable story.
A narrative about the Soviet prison camps seems like it would be so weighty as to be unreadable, but Solzhenitsyn makes it surprisingly palatable.
One of my all time favorites.One of the accounts from the book that still makes me laugh (you read that right, though I shouldn't really) is:A political meeting was going on with about 1000 - 2000 people present in the hall somewhere in USSR (I can't recall the exact location and time of the event).
Right at that exact moment the whole congregation stood up and began to clap without forgetting to put a beaming stupid smile on their faces.
He thought that 8 minutes of clapping and smiling was enough for showing their loyalty for a singular mention of Comrade Stalin's name.
Solzhenitsyn provides a historical account reasoning through the state’s decision-making process and covering all the process of prison and exile from arrest to release (not so many reached release).
There are occasional flashes of humour; the party meeting where no one wants to be the first to stop clapping and so it goes on for over 8 minutes springs to mind.
The book is of historical importance; placing the origins of the gulag with Lenin rather than Stalin; he just exploited and perfected it.
Anyone who wants to understand Soviet history has to read this.
Sozinho, sem vizinhos, cheio de precauções e com pouco mais do que alguma lenha e comida que caçava, fê-lo em memória de todos os torturados e mortos no Gulag.É extraordinária a resiliência do autor não só por ter sobrevivido aos campos de trabalho corretivo e a um tumor canceroso (quando era ainda prisioneiro), mas tb por se propor a reviver e a sentir novamente a dor das atrocidades.
A ' Alma Mater' do Gulag, expressão de Soljenítsin, são as ilhas Solovki, onde um mosteiro da Igreja Ortodoxa Russa foi transformado no primeiro campo de trabalho por decreto de Lenine.
This is a personal history by a survivor of the false arrest, the long prison sentence, the brutal dehumanizing treatment that sends shivers up the spine.
Solzhenitsyn describes the special camps, prisons, prison trains and the horrific penalty cells.
Here inmates worked off their 10 or 25 year sentences if they lived that long and their sentences were not extended.
Some camps intentionally worked the inmates to death.
This use of prisoners kept the quotas high for the State Security system.Solzhenitsyn tells us about the inmates.
In his seventh year of prison Solzhenitsyn experiences an epiphany.
"They have tightly bound my body, but my soul is beyond their power." Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn's The Gulag Archipelago is probably the greatest and most disturbing account of human rights violations and political oppression. Now I look around me and see other people stress over nothing, and am disgusted by their egotistical self-centeredness.
Bercerita tentang kengerian kamp konsentrasi buat para "si penjahat malang" (baca: siapapun yang dianggap menentang keinginan Si Kumis Besar a.k.a Stalin) yang bernama Gulag, buku ini sudah menimbulkan kengerian bahkan sejak halaman pertama.
Di Gulag, para tahanannya sama sekali tak diberi makan kecuali sisa sampah yang bahkan hewan paling putus asa pun tak akan mau memakannya.Stalin telah membuat Hitler terlihat seperti bocah bengal 7 tahun yang hanya bisa melampiskan amarahnya dengan menyiksa kecoa malang.
Mengapa kita lebih mudah melakukan kebaikan dengan gagah namun sering kali tak berdaya mencegah kejahatan yang tampak mudah dibantah?".Ketika saya membaca buku Nyanyi Sunyi Seorang Bisu 1, saya merasa stress.
Having been interrogated in the Lubyanka, he was sentenced to eight years of hard labor and shuttled off to the remote and inhospitable wilds of his own country where, as he puts it, “the sooner you get used to being without your near and dear ones, and the sooner they get used to being without you, the better.”But faced with interment under unspeakable conditions, Solzhenitsyn makes an extraordinary choice: rather than succumb to bitterness and despair, he determines to pursue the richness of the human experience through conversations with his fellow inmates.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
THIS IS HOW YOU HAVE TO WRITE A BOOK WHEN YOU LIVE IN THE SOVIET UNION!!!
Millions upon millions of the former peasants – some who had even fought in the revolution - were rounded up and convicted as political prisoners for such terrible crimes as “having a defeatist attitude.” Many were executed there on the spot but others were executed very slowly in the work gangs of the gulag.I found the following argument very interesting: Solzhenitsyn remarks about how West Germany had convicted former Nazis for war crimes and crimes against humanity.
ستقرأ في هذا الكتاب ما يتجاوز خيالك من حالات ظلم، حيث كان يسجن كل من يبدي رأياً مخالفاً وربما يعدم، وحيث كان الناس يرسلون إلى المعتقلات لعشر سنوات بدون أي محاكمة، بل ويورد المؤلف حالات ذهب الناس فيها للمعتقلات لأنهم إما عادوا من الحرب أو انتقدوا قلة الإنتاج، أو مثل حالة تلك المرأة التي ذهبت لتسأل ما الذي يمكنها أن تفعله برضيع جارتها التي اعتقلت في اليوم السابق، فاعتقلت هي بدورها !!!
الكتاب يمنح قارئه حالة اكتئابية لا تزول بسهولة، وخاصة عندما نتذكر أن هذا النظام المجنون الذي زال أخيراً من الاتحاد السوفييتي كان وربما لازال موجوداً في بعض بلادنا العربية.
The applause was all to honor the dictator Joseph Stalin at a 1937 conference of the Communist Party in the Soviet Union.But the big question soon became: Who would have the nerve to be the first person to stop clapping in honor of Comrade Stalin?
That doesn’t even count the 6 or 7 million who died in the famine that Stalin created through his policies, or the millions who had to do long, hard sentences in the Gulag labor camps.So when people were afraid to stop clapping for Stalin, they had good reason.Here is how the Nobel Prize-winning writer Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn described the surreal scene in his great book, The Gulag Archipelago:“The applause went on—six, seven, eight minutes!
أرخبيل غولاغ - ألكسندر سولجينيتسنيتناول هذا العمل : القمع (الإرهاب السياسي، تعسف السلطات .......
وأحكام بالسجن لمدد طويلة، واختفاء قسري، ومعتقلات العمل القسري..إلخفي هذا العمل عليك أن تضع المنطق جانبًا ..
لا حدود للاعتقالات والتعسف والتعذيب ..ينقل سولجينيتسن تجربته الشخصية ..حينَ قضى 11 عامًا في أحد المعتقلات، إضافة إلى شهادات وقصص أكثر من 260 سجين التقى بهم هناك أو سمع قصصهم وما عاشوه وشهدوه.عمل صادم وقاسي ومليء بالمرارة والأهوال والفظائع التي ارتكبت ضد الانسانيّة .هذا الكتاب من أوائل الأعمال التي أسست الأدب الوثائقي.وهو النوع الذي تعرفنا عليه كـ قراء بشكلٍ أقرب بعد فوز الكاتبة البيلاروسية سفيتلانا أليكسييفيتش بنوبل للأدب 2015 .
Terkesan retoris memang, tapi boleh jadi jawaban untuk pertanyaan ini adalah Kepulauan Gulag di Rusia di masa rezim Komunis pimpinan Stalin.Di masa itu dunia memang hanya tahu kekejaman Nazi Jerman di Eropa dengan Hitler sebagai gembongnya.
“Kotak” ini adalah sebuah ruangan, bisa sangat terang karena diberi lampu listrik tapi bisa juga gelap, yang dindingnya terbuat dari kayu dan dibangun sedemikian rupa sehingga tahanan hanya bisa berdiri dengan tubuh menempel rapat ke pintu dan mereka dipaksa untuk tidak tidur hingga beberapa hari bahkan seminggu lamanya.
***Aleksandr I Solzhenitsyn menceritakan semua kejadian mengerikan itu dalam bukunya The Gulag Archipelago yang ia tulis setelah dibebaskan dari kamp kerja paksa pada 1953.
As well as the inside story of Stalin's prison camp system, it's practically the author's autobiography, he spent so long in there (eight years, for criticising Stalin in a letter to a friend while fighting in the battle of Berlin) or campaigning against the system as a result of his experiences.
But he did come out of it alive (as did 81% of convicts, I've heard), and so some of his allegations, such as that the purpose of the camp system was extermination, are exaggerated.
and, for his troubles, he was banished for twenty years, (after his original prison term, and subsequent masterpiece) It warms my heart that Solzhenitsyn lived a long life- I can think of few who deserved it more.
I recall Solzhenitsyn's sentence running to 17 years, but I read the book a while ago, I just read online it was 8, perhaps it was his pen pal, the one he got put away with.
The letters were exchanged along the front lines, and all the mail was being read, of course, so they were sent to the Gulag.
Gulag Archipelago by Alexander Solzhenitsyn is an important, powerful book.
If you are interested in 20th Century history or interested in the future of humanity - this book is required reading.
This is one of the most powerful books I have ever read.
At times I was saddened by human cruelty.
I'll conclude with a quote from Volume Two: "The line dividing good and evil cuts through the heart of every human being." Note: I think many people would benefit from reading One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich (Solzhenitsyn's short 1962 novel) before reading Gulag Archipelago.
One of the most monumental accounts of one of the cruellest ideologies of history,this book should b
new article: the author who brought down an empire...https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/11/op...I was in college when this work was published and dropped like a bomb on the playground of the Marxist fellow-travelers.
Their naive utopia proved to be a path to a totalitarian state, labor camps, oppression and death.
I have noticed since, that some of these naive folks have not seemed to have forgiven Solzhenitsyn for publishing the carefully documented truth and exposing their folly.
Attempts to label him a reactionary, or whatever, do not take away from the truth he exposed.
Power corrupts, whether of Right or Left, and leads to the destruction of humanity every time.
But I think that the right way to see this book is through its spiritual insights.
The experience in camp had a deep impact in Solzhenitsyn.
I believe that nobody can pass for such experience and don't be affected in some way.
The discussion of this topic, in particular, was done in the chapters 1 ("Ascent") and 2 ("Or Corruption?") from the part IV of the book ("The Soul and the Barbed Ware").
These two chapters are my favorite in the book and I recommend to anyone who doesn't want to read the whole book but has an interest in a deep and insightful discussion about human nature, suffering, and religion.
I just read this author's "One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich" and recalled reading "Gulag" at least 30 or more years ago. I found "Gulag" challenging, certainly and definitely frightening. But as I recall, "Gulag" was a far more visceral experience than "Denisovich", which was, to me, on the boring side. Perhaps Solzhenitsyn's intention was to write a shorter, more accessible book about the Russian prison system, and one can argue that yes, he achieved that goal.
This will be a somewhat complex review because I am going to intertwine comments on Solzhenitsyn's The Gulag Archipelago with the 20th anniversary of the dissolution of the Soviet Union.I'm reading The Gulag Archipelago right now and have just returned from a discussion of the dissolution of the Soviet Union conducted by five genuine experts: Former U.S. ambassadors and students of Soviet Affairs Tom Pickering, Mark Palmer and Arthur Hartman and veteran journalists Marvin Kalb and Ted Koppel.Let me put it this way: The Gulag Archipelago is the clear prelude to and explanation of why the USSR crumbled as it did.
That depends: what's your PhD on?As long as you know, like, The Soviet Union had a fuckton of labour camps.
They treated workers/prisoners very poorly and tortured them in imaginative ways.
There's some solid Wikipediage on it.The chapter about arrests was interesting in that it was borderline farcical how they trapped people.
Sentences, I say, replete with multitudinous exclamation points, for Solzhenitsyn's was an undeniably hyperbolic ordeal!—that take a very long time—quite an age, I would wager!
Hold your breath, Reader, for here comes another long sentence!I could start my own Wikipedia, right?
We go over the laws on whose account one is arrested, the process of the arrest itself, the interrogation process, the prison in which you live during the interrogation, the history of the waves of people arrested when and for what "reasons," the history of public trials in the USSR (reserved for big public figures - something the vast majority never experience), the conditions in the various means of transport from the interrogation prison to the work camps, the transit prisons one is held in along the way, and in part, the author's personal journey through all this.Throughout all this, he writes very well, in a very thought-provoking manner, with a huge and intimate sense of Russian culture and history.
I have to sit in my foreign country and cogitate over how my Tokyo style of writing (you know, the whole I-novel thing) is just superior.
am I like tokyo freakin' amazing or what?
who can live like this?
who can live like this?
bwahaha even the slightly off kilter b&n girl at union square doesn't have quite this level of city excellence.
it's serious literature and is believed to have contributed to the breakup of the Soviet Union.
everybody knows this, nobody complains.
how did they know?
how did they know?what's great about this book is its narratological unity.
Solzhenitsyn hits you like a hammer.
It's heavy, heavy stuff, and it is -- to the best of anyone's ability -- non-fiction.
We know plenty about the camps in Germany, and yet even now, decades after this book was published, I knew little about this.I could as easily shelve it as 'horror' as I could 'non-fiction' or 'history'.Despite that, it's not unrelenting.
There's hope -- the very fact that I read this says there's hope: Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn's been heard.
And there's a kind of dark humour, on nearly every page, in Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn's analysis of events and of people.Definitely worth reading, if you can brace yourself for it.
It was rather a depressing book but beautifully written. I wonder how I would appreciate this now as I read it about twenty years ago.
