https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1364719.Death_at_the_Opera
Certainly this one had a great premise - a body is found during a school production of The Mikado and the death is pronounced a suicide, even though the victim apparently managed to drown herself in a sink whilst sitting on a chair.Circumstances and a whole cast of suspects persuade the schools headmaster to call on the psychological expertise of Mrs Bradley to find out the truth about the death.I had seen the BBC adaptation of this installment and had rather high expectations, and unfortunately the book did not live up to it.
(however, she has no intention of exposing them, either out of malice or hope of blackmail; she's too inoffensive.) By helping to finance the school's production of "The Mikado", she wins a role that should have gone to a better actress.
Although the police charge the black widower with the second woman's death, there is no assurance that the charge will stick.
As for the death of the insane lady, another character, who cherishes an unrequited passion for the widowed half of the lover's pair, admits to Mrs. Bradley quite candidly that he decided to smooth the path to her happiness by hiring the black widower to kill the lady in the asylum.
Not one of Gladys Mitchell's better books.
Not my idea of how a book should go at all, but oh well.
It's still a good story (or couple of stories) and I'm happy to say the Ms. Mitchell knew her Gilbert and Sullivan (which is not true of every author who uses one of their operettas as a plot device, unfortunately), which is definitely all to the good--I have an unfortunate tendency to obsess over minor errors when I know something about the subject, thereby losing any pleasure in the rest of the book (or film or whatever).
The coroner returned a verdict of suicide, but this does not satisfy the headmaster; thus the appearance of Mrs Bradley, to investigate foul play.It's an enjoyable read, and a reminder of the days when teachers might risk their livelihoods because of a whiff of scandal - and so commit murder.
With the help of a Gladys Mitchell tribute site, I've picked out two more books for my reading list; not an easy task as she wrote a book a year from Speedy Death in 1929 until No Winding Sheet in 1983, the year she died.
I really couldn't guess who was the culprit (which is usually a good thing with a mystery!), and kind of had the feeling the author just picked one at random so she could just stop writing (and therefore blamed it on someone with a totally ludicrous, unbelievable motive).
Most of these vintage murder mysteries are a bit preposterous, and they all have a brilliant eccentric detective, but at least they mostly have something going for them so you can suspend disbelief for a while.
Since she was found missing on that night, her part was enacted by another staff, Mrs Boyle.The coroner's verdict said it's suicide.
Her life was sans expectations with little time for rantings and ravings.It's rather surprising to know that an inoffensive woman like Ferris could get murdered.Through her analysis, Mrs Bradley came across people who had the opportunity and motives to kill Calma Ferris.
Mrs Bradley is new to me and I am sure I will get to know the kind of person she is through her other stories.
I like the method Mrs Bradley employs to deduce who's the culprit.
Yet another peculiar - but effective - classic mystery from a prolific author, with a very funny and sharply observed "advanced school" atmosphere and lots of death and mayhem, mixed in with a production the school is putting on of The Mikado, when the perfectly dreadful (in many, many ways) Katisha of the cast is found dead during the show and there are lots of folks who seem awfully glad.
As she wends her way through all the suspects and motives, we are privy to some of Mrs. Bradley's thought processes and psychological reasoning, with a thoughtful little appendix placed at the back that indicates completely, in the final consensus, how she came to her conclusions.
I wanted to read this because I was so enamored of Diana Rigg in the TV series, but Ms Mitchell lets the murderer get away with it, and I can't abide this kind of ending with Beatrice LeStrange's complicitness. Call me a moral prude, but this is my one and only Mitchell.
Ok, not one of her better books.
Good choice for a light read.
Perhaps the first time in the early books when the full sense of Mrs. Bradley comes to the fore, this fifth outing revolves around a series of murders (an "epidemic of drowning"), the first of which is of a teacher at a school, who is drowned in a washbasin during a school performance of Gilbert & Sullivan's The Mikado.
The naturalistic approach to the murder means that we learn a good deal beforehand about the victim, Miss Calma Ferris, and the other principals on the stage.
But do we learn enough to deduce the murderer?
This is my second attempt at reading Mitchell's work (I tried reading the Twenty-Third Man and gave it up in the end.) This attempt went better, in that I actually finished the book.The book is reasonably engaging.
Unfortunately the ending falls a little flat and left me unconvinced, and even a bit cheated.
I can fool myself into accepting the ending by saying that I know nothing about the temperaments of artists, especially those very very devoted to their craft, but it is a stretch.
I doubt I will be reading more of her books any time soon, not when there are so many selections out there.
Too convoluted for me and a week ending.
This books is so different, I had no idea who the murderer was, it was a complete turn around from the TV show starring Diana Rigg. I really enjoyed it. I don't want to give anything away so I will just say its an excellent read and Gladys Mitchell deserved every accolade she had received.
When a spinster schoolteacher at a forward-thinking co-ed private school ends up dead, the coroner's jury chalks it up as suicide.
But the headmaster has private doubts and summons the formidable Mrs. Bradley to investigate.Mrs. Bradley soon realizes that the victim, Calma Ferris, was murdered, and the psychiatrist-sleuth determines that Ferris wasn't the only one "done in." The ending will really surprise you.
My only quibble with the book was that Gladys Mitchell doesn't really play fair with the reader, as there aren't enough clues for a reader to determine who the real murderer is.
#2 a book with an eccentric characterDeath at the opera is a volume of Mitchell's 'Mrs Bradley Mysteries' later made into a tv series starring Diana Rigg.
Mrs Bradley is an amateur detective with expertise in psychology and a flamboyant sense of dress.
In this volume the death occurs of a seemingly inoffensive teacher during a school production of The Mikado and Mrs Bradley is called upon by the headmaster to investigate the death after an inquest comes to the conclusion that it was a suicide.
Motives for murder abound and Mrs Bradley eventually solves the case but this slight read is a little creaky and lacking plausibility.
A coeducational school is presenting The Mikado when an inoffensive arithmetic teacher is found dead. Was she so afraid of appearing as Katisha that she drowned herself in a sink? The headmaster doesn't agree with the results of the inquest, and asks Mrs. Bradley, the elderly psychoanalyst, to visit and talk to the cast, mostly faculty but including a few students. As so often happens in these mysteries, the ending is subtly unsatisfying, often because Mrs. Bradley finds reason to let the murderer go free.
I really enjoyed this. They're a bit different from the normal run of who-dunnits because you always feel like Mrs Bradley wants to know who did it because she's interested - not because she has a burning sense of justice or the victim needing to be avenged. She's curious and detached, and if someone she likes does something - for noble reasons - she might not necessarily hand them over to the cops.This is intriguing and well put together - and I didn't work out who it was really as it kept twisting away. Good train reading.
Come back Agatha Christie et al, all is forgiven. Confused plot (what's with the introduction of a whole new subplot threequarters of the way through?), inconsistent characterisation, and careless writing - if Mrs Lestrange Bradley pursed her thin lips into a little beak once, she did it twenty times, and I got so fed up of her calling everyone child...and the denouement is hastily tacked on and quite incredible. It got 2 stars rather than 1 because I like The Mikado.
A meandering sort of mystery, and quite pleasing for that, which made the ill timing of a thoroughly-necessary red herring all the more irritating. Mrs. Bradley is one of the most morally amoral characters in English fiction; like a character from the more austere reaches of French literature who's tottered into the world of drawing room murder and decided to stay because she liked the tea and biscuits.
This one joins The Blind Barber, Below Suspicion, There Was an Old Woman, The Finishing Stroke, and The Big Four as one of the worst of the worst of classical detective novels. Absolutely bonkers and incoherent plotting, and featuring easily one of the most outlandish motives for murder in all of mystery fiction.
This book was a bit of a disapointment because the plots resolution wasn't credible at all and it relies on very dated psychological notions and too many coincidences. Some of the characters are very interesting and believable, and the idea of a murder mystery in a school is attractive. However, you might be better off reading "Cat among the pigeons" by Agatha Christie.
This book was a bit of a disapointment because the plot´s resolution wasn't credible at all and it relies on very dated psychological notions and too many coincidences. Some of the characters are very interesting and believable, and the idea of a murder mystery in a school is attractive. However, you might be better off reading "Cat among the pigeons" by Agatha Christie.
This is a vintage crime book, first published in 1934 and featuring Mrs Bradley as undercover detective at a school where there has been an apparent suicide, during a performance of The Mikado. I quite enjoyed the plot and characters but Mrs Bradley herself drove me round the bend, mainly because she called everyone 'child' - even the headmaster.
I like the way the Mrs Bradley books subvert the usual process of investigation - Mrs B is more concerned with truth than with retribution always. She has a wonderful way of collecting young men, too!
I have watach the TV adaptations of this author's book and now having read the actual novels I found that the adaptations stick very closely to the books. Well worth the read on a cold night curled up on the sofa in front of a roaring fire.
Entertaining, but almost seemed like two stories interwoven after the fact, rather than deftly combined. That being said, I'm coming to the notion that one doesn't really read the Mrs Bradley novels for plot, but for characterisation and humour, both of which are plentiful here.
A very disappointing mystery novel; the chief character Mrs Bradley was so unreal it wasn't true and she was always "cackling" - ugh! and patronising. The plot was slow moving and the altruistic ending did not hold water.
I love these old mystery books from the 20s, 30s and 40s. So different from today's thrillers and mysteries.
A cute little whodunit. Better than Christie, with proper grown up characters, this is an ideal holiday read.
A thoroughly enjoyable read.Once you start a Mrs.Bradley mystery you can't put it down untitled you finished it !
