https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/539904.A_Bridge_Too_Far
Cornelius Ryan  has a knack for writing military histories that are incredibly accessible. I'm a far cry from being an “armchair general.” I didn't grow up playing Risk, and my primary point of reference for distinguishing between aircraft carriers and destroyers is the number of pegs required to sink them in the game Battleship (and even then I manage to mix them up). Don't get me wrong, Ryan's trio of WWII accounts (The Longest Day,   The Last Battle  , and   A Bridge Too Far  ) tell you who
, there's plenty of excellent material out there (including this book); the quick and dirty version is basically that it was the largest airborne operation to-date, took place in the Netherlands and Germany and was not a success.
Meanwhile, the Allied leadership wasn't exactly having an easy time of things.
It was at Monty's HQ that Lieutenant General Frederick Browning tried to challenge the Field Marshall: “But, sir, I think we might be going a bridge too far.” The best one-liner regarding Monty, though, definitely came from Ryan's interview with Prince Bernhard of the Netherlands who said:
Ike apparently was swayed by Monty’s added argument over the high priority placed by the Brits on stopping V2 rocket attacks originating in the Netherlands.The plan Monty’s generals drew up called for a simultaneous drop of forces at three sites to seize critical bridges (the “Market”) followed by sending the armored infantry of the XXX Corps up the highway from Belgium and across the liberated bridges (the “Garden”).
Only about 700 men under Colonel Jack Frost were available to successfully advance and take one side of the bridge; others had to secure the landing zone and perimeters for another drop of forces planned for the next day.
Operation Market-Garden was a forgotten battle in the annals of World War II.
It had been forgotten.
It was acceptable to examine the many Allied defeats from the early years of the war, even required.
At least that's my perception as I look at popular histories (WWII) from the fifties and sixties.Ryan ignored that "Understanding" and wrote (in-depth) about the defeat.
He examined an Allied defeat using his detailed first hand account approach.
A well written popular history account of World War II battle.
Detailed enough for those who are oriented to military history, but not too specialized for the layperson.
UPDATE REVIEW"Fantastic but unrealistic."That's Eisenhower's first reaction and opinion upon hearing Montgomery's plan regarding Operation Market Garden."Fantastic and realistic!"That's Erie's (hey, that's me!) first reaction and opinion after he finished this book :DIMHO, this book remarkably evokes "what happened" behind one of the biggest military gambling in history.
In September 1944, after launching the successful D-Day, Allies assertively unleash Operation Market Garden.
Anda tahu saya lagi diincer terus nih!"Kesannya ini dua Jendral akrab banget deh, sosobatan ti leuleutik ceuk orang sunda mah, heheheYang bikin heboh adalah pemakaian kata ini..
It was the fifth, the crucial bridge over the Lower Rhine at a place called Arnhem, sixty-four miles behind the German lines, that worried Lieutenant General Frederick Browning, Deputy Commander, First Allied Airborne Army.
Pointing to the Arnhem bridge on the map he asked, "How long will it take the armor to reach us?" Field Marshal Montgomery replied briskly, "Two days," Still looking at the map, Browning said, "We can hold it for four." Then he added, "But, sir, I think we might be going a bridge too far."
I've been looking into Airborne operations lately as I just wrote a scene where one of my characters parachutes into France on D-Day-- the biggest drop ever.
I went through jump school a long time ago-- let's say I saw Alien in the post theater at Benning the night before my first jump-- and then served in the airborne in Special Forces and was a jump master.
What is surprising is how unsuccessful large-scale airborne operations have been throughout history.
But it appears that no one really wanted to take a hard look at how it all worked.
Great tale of Market Garden. A few year later when they were filmingthe flic in Holland, I just happened to be there checking out theforrests where divisions Hohenstauffen and Frundsberg had beenhiding. I heard they were asking for extras to be soldiers andI raced to the site, but no luck for me. Still a great relatedmemory. Also check out 'It Never Snows in September' a great book fromthe German perspective of this battle.
Probably the best book written about a single operation in WWII, A Bridge Too Far chronicles the ambitious plan of Montgomery to airlift troops into Holland, capture the bridges and cross the Rhine, culminating in the defeat of the German Panzer units on the other side.
The book details the very pointed philosophy on Monty- get the troops behind German lines via paratroopers, then on the other side, crush them with armor.
The book also pulls no punches- this was, in part, a German success, but most notoriously an Allied failure.
The title says it all
Mr. Cornelius Ryan notes in his Acknowledgements as an author of contemporary history even 30 years after the event it was difficult to assemble the account of the Market-Garden operation.
Bridge Too Far: The Classic History of the Greatest Airborne Battle of World War II is a wonderfully written account of this classic airborne assault of Holland during WWII.
Mr. Ryan's team interviewed more than 1500 military and Dutch civilians who participated in the Market-Garden actions.
Mr. Ryan is able to convey the operational aspects utilizing the personalized stories in a way which engages the reader.
The narrative is cohesive, easy to follow, and very readable, and Ryan moves smoothly from the highest to lowest ranks.
Ryan clearly and vividly writes how the battle was experienced by soldiers and civilians, and he really captures the drama of the battle and the courage and tenacity of the airborne troops.
He also explains how Allied aerial reconnaissance was unable to spot the German panzer divisions, how the drop zones were selected, and how the Germans captured and interpreted the Allied plans.Ryan includes lots of enjoyable firsthand accounts, but they’re mostly from the British side.
Also, Ryan never analyzes the operation from a strategic perspective.
Most of all the reader comes away with a vivid understanding of the chaos of this unfortunate campaign, the horrific suffering of the soldiers and the Dutch civilian population (and of the Germans troops as well), the many episodes of group and individual heroism during what became increasingly apparent as a lost cause, and the tragic fact that, inasmuch as this mission failed, the war which looked to be nearing its end dragged on for another eight months.As at D-Day, this action began with massive bombing and airborne actions, utilizing troops from Britain, America, and free Poland (the ground troops who arrived later also included Canadians) who arrived by parachute and also in gliders.
This is a history book that reads like a novel.
Even though the battle recounted here took place well before I was born, I feel deeply indebted to the men who fought so bravely and bittered for the bad planning that led so many to suffering and death.
And I also feel sad that history tends to be so quickly forgotten...
We had plans to visit the area the next few days, but unfortunately the time available will not be enough.
I hope we'll be able to make it another time!
The ultimate book on that deeply flawed operation with Paratroopers that failed at the bridge at Arnhem. ANd as a consequense the Northern part of the Netherlands remained in German hands for another winter (the Hungerwinter).About the brave men and women that lived through this chapter of WOII that is still remembered today.The writing is a bit dry but the story is well told.
Operation Market Garden.Operasi ambisius yang dirancang oleh Jendral Bernard "Monty" Montgomery ini dimaksudkan untuk merebut sejumlah jembatan penting untuk mendahului pasukan darat dengan sasaran utamanya adalah jembatan di sungai Rein di Arnhem yang mengarah langsung ke perbatasan Jerman.
Ikut menyaksikan perjuangan Kolonel John Frost bersama pasukannya yang berperang dengan heroik mempertahankan bagian utara jembatan Arnhem sampai titik darah penghabisan meski pada akhirnya mereka "disapu bersih" oleh Jerman.Kelak jembatan ini oleh pemerintah Belanda dinamakan "John Frost Bridge" untuk mengenang kepahlawanan Kolonel Frost dan anak buahnya.
Divisi Angkatan Udara ke-1 Inggeris yang dipimpin Urquhart menjadi "tumbal" untuk operasi ini.
One of the stories that is going to stick with me is the story of the cargo planes coming in to resupply allied army troops on the ground.
The airdrop crews knew how desperate the army on the ground needed the supplies they were bringing them.
The men on the ground later told the story of one cargo plane going over the drop zone and getting hit.
The pilot kept the plane steady going over the narrow zone so their supplies would go were they were needed, making himself an easier target for the Germans.
I would love to travel to Holland one day and travel the 64 miles that was fought over and visit the bridges and towns mentioned in the book.I am going to take a break from reading about war for awhile.
I guess I read these books because I like the folly nature of war.
After reading the Guns of August, Bloodlands, and The Crimean War, I have realized that Hollywood is pretty myopic about war movies (WWII western europe and a little pacific thrown in).
The celebrated, exhaustive story of the ill-fated invasion of Holland by the Allies in September, 1944.
All written work, government records, and interviews with seemingly every living survivor he could find, both Allied and German.
Yes, but given all Mr. Ryan's work, who can begrudge him a paltry 600 pages?
How Eisenhower was talked into this disastrous invasion by Montgomery is dealt with early in the book, but is worth pondering.
While it may be true that many unforeseen and unforeseeable events conspired to doom the invasion, still one wonders if Eisenhower was to some extent simply worn out by having to deal with Montgomery and finally gave in to him on this idea because it was the least bad of all that he had proposed so far.
Simply one of the best military histories out there.
Mr. Ryan's last book was his masterpiece.
He got the pathos and the tragedy of Market Garden right, and he lays the blame squarely where it belonged.
This book illustrates all of this in a readable style and is eminently quoteable (I mined it repeatedly for paper topics for Military Science and Military History courses, though my calling Model "Hitler's fair haired boy now that Rommel was dead" was a bit unscholarly, c'est' la vie) In short, read this book.
The movie, while good, is a pale shadow to the book, and to be honest, the DVD version is horrid.
It really picked up around page 450.
Amazing.
Simply amazing.
The 1st Airborne, the 101st, the 82nd, and the Polish Airborne made a daring attempt to end the war early.
A drop into Holland the veer around the retreating Germans.
The largest airborne drop of the war.
Unfortunately they landed in the midst of a retreating army as well as two SS Panzer divisions.
The paratroopers held as long as possible for the meetup of the XXX Armored Corps, bur Model's troops held them up far too long.
Ultimately the entire 1st Airborne division was destroyed even though some made it out of the fighting pocket.
A Bridge Too Far is their story.
A war correspondent, Cornelius Ryan spent decades after WWII interviewing 1200 people including President Eisenhower and Allied and Axis generals and soldiers as well as members of the Dutch underground in order to preserve the history of the failed Market-Garden campaign, which cost more Allied lives (17,000) than the Normandy invasion (12,000).
The result is 600 pages of awe-inspiring, poignant, funny, ridiculous and tragic memories of the campaign woven together in a masterfully concise, rich tapestry.
The great tragedy of this campaign is that the British failed to involve the Dutch underground in the planning and execution of Market-Garden in Holland.
The primary objective was to gain control of a major bridge across the Rhine at Arnhem in Holland that would allow an immediate land invasion into Germany before winter.
Meanwhile, the allied tank advance along a single highway could have been stopped at any point if the Germans had destroyed any of the major bridges along the route to Arnhem.
Still, the allied luck would run out as no amount of luck could cause a tank division to quickly advance along a single narrow highway lined by ditches on both sides against intense German opposition with virtually no flanking options in the marshy lowlands of Holland.They had tried to take one bridge too far.
A Bridge Too Far is the 2nd Epic by Cornelius Ryan (the first being "The Longest Day" based on Normandy landings of 6 June 1944)Ryan follows the same working principle of conducting several interviews from personnel from both ends of the fighting sides and converting these into a lucidly written narrative of actual war, the technique which worked to perfection in the Longest Day.The book basically covers the Allied Operation called "Operation Market Garden" in which Allied Top Brass landed thousands of paratroppers (the market) in Holland and supported these with ground forces (the garden).
The paras were dropped at key installations and were supposed to hold the several bridges on the Holland dykes till the ground forces arrived.It was a joint operation by British, Canadian and American forces and took the Germans by surprise.
Ryan, từng là phóng viên chiến trường thời Đệ Nhị Thế Chiến, đã phỏng vấn rất nhiều nhân chứng còn sống đã khéo léo đưa những lời tường thuật ấy vào trong tác phẩm, từ những người dân Hà Lan bình thường, các du kích quân Hà Lan cho tới những người lính trong trận đánh.
Với những lời tường thuật đó, tác phẩm đã mang nhiều tính của một phóng sự hấp dẫn, thu hút người đọc.Tác phẩm đã được chuyển thể phim (1977) với sự có mặt của nhiều diễn viên danh tiếng như Sean Connery, Robert Redfort,...
Một tác phẩm đáng đọc cho những người quan tâm đến đề tài Đệ Nhị Thế Chiến.
I think this is a great book for me because its mainly about War.This book is great because it includes the army my Great Grandpa was in the Nazi's,but he left to Tonga to get away from the War.War is my favorite topic because it includes alot of history, he is something that were in the book.A Bridge Too Far by the late Irish-American journalist Cornelius Ryan is the third in a series of books written about the major battles of the Second World War in Europe.
In dramatic fashion, A Bridge Too Far superbly tells the story of Operation Market-Garden, the biggest single airborne assault in history and the largest and most costly Allied defeat since the earliest days of World War II.As A Bridge Too Far opens, it is late summer 1944.
This account of Operation Market-Garden is considered a classic for a reason.
This a pretty comprehensive take on what probably the most complex combined-arms operation of the Second World War. The narrative is well organized, covering all three airborne divisions' actions, leading armored units of Montgomery's 2nd Army, the German forces that opposed them, and the Dutch civilians caught in-between.
Even with all this information, the writing is very accessible.Operation Market-Garden itself was an amazingly complex and ambitious undertaking.
Almost 35,000 troops were to parachute or arrive in gliders along a narrow corridor through the Netherlands.
They were to capture numerous bridges which would allow ground forces to sweep up the corridor and make it over the Rhine river.
After that, the allied forces would have a straight shot into the industrial heart of Germany and hopefully end the war by Christmas 1944.
This book tells the tragic tale.Ryan does a great job blending the big picture strategy with personal anecdotes of illustrations that put you into the fighting.
I am now on a World War II reading binge thanks to Mr. Ryan.
Cornelius Ryan presents the story of Operation Market-Garden with a scholar's attention to detail and a novelist's attention to human drama.
Following D-Day, General Montgomery undertook a daring push to enter Germany and force its surrender.
Paratroopers were dropped in advance to secure important bridges and hold them until ground forces arrived.
Unfortunately, German resistance was far greater than anticipated and the route itself was often too narrow or inadequate in other ways, making the passage of a large armored force impractical.
The result was a debacle and a great waste of human life.Monuments and memorials are important symbols of our gratitude to the men and women who have sacrificed so much on our behalf.
This book covers Operation Market-Garden exceptionally well.
Coming from someone with barely any previous knowledge of the operation prior to this read, the book does a great job explaining all the key players, the overall big-picture of the plan, and the individual experiences of the units and soldiers to the point that even WWII beginners like me can comprehend.
Although it took me awhile to complete due to unavoidable circumstances, I found myself captivated by the book and looked forward to any chance to sneak in a few more pages read.
I highly recommend this book for those interested in the operation or in WWII in general.
