https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1917656.The_Egg_Tree
There are 3 colors for the illustrations and they are like pastels.
It is not a bright book with sharp colors.
The story was fine.
A family goes on an Easter Egg hunt and one girl finds some fancy painted eggs the grandmother had forgotten about.
They take the fancy eggs and make an Egg Tree.It turns into 'Field of Dreams' with the whole, 'you build it and they will come' thing.
We made an egg tree once when I was a kid.
Once was enough for us.The nephew thought this was story was too long with too many words on the pages.
A pleasant story, and a nice change from today's busy and bright Easter fare, but it didn't especially stay with me. The illustrations, while pleasant, really are more of a nod to the Pennsylvania Dutch folk art rather than an accurate representation of it. It seemed too pastel, watercolor-y to me. And I wanted more information about the meaning of each of the designs. I think it is called "Hex Art"? You can find some gorgeous examples online.
• 1951 Caldecott Winner •I’ve seen this in the library so many times, but I’ve never picked it because I really didn’t like the colors on the cover and the rooster looks like it’s choking on the horn. So I finally read it for my Caldecott challenge. This is beautifully written - a great story for Easter. The art and colors are still not to my taste and look rather dated. But the story held my interest. Materials used: unlistedTypeface used: unlisted
Milhous tells a story of a long ago Easter, when the children spend time at their grandparents’ Pennsylvania farm.
This was a delightful story that tells of a long-time family tradition.
I like how the children become interested and then eager to participate in this tradition that had fallen by the wayside.
The book shows the family working together to decorate the eggs, and even bringing in other people from the area.
Still, I do like the expressions on the faces of the people (adults and children, alike), as well as the detailed drawings of some of the traditional egg designs.
The Egg Tree story is educational,and purposeful.This story is realistic the story portrays and simp
My mother had an Easter tree when I was a kid, and this book brought back memories of watching her hollow out eggs so I could take them to school and decorate them, then bring them back home to hang on the tree.
The dialogue in this book, and the behavior of the kids, seemed very contemporary, despite the book's age, and I think only the style of dress in the illustrations gives away that the setting is actually Pennsylvania Dutch Country.
I was kind of disappointed by how dull the colors are in the images, but I did like the two-page spreads showing the kids hunting for eggs and later painting them.
This is a lovely story of a Pennsylvania Dutch family. The children are waiting for the Easter bunny to come, then hunting for eggs. Katy is sad because she can not find any of the eggs...until she goes to the attic and discovers eggs her granmom painted years before. The cousins all paint eggs and create an egg tree...a beautiful egg tree that the community wants to see. This would be a great read aloud to tie into an art project of painting wooden eggs. It would be fun to decorate an egg tree each year.
A beautiful Easter book. I was fortunate to grow up with it, but wasn't sure how my grandsons would take it. They loved it! The pictures are so amazing, the three year old has spent days pouring over them. I wish I could put this book in the hands of everyone, regardless of age. It's truly a work of art and glorious salute to spring. :)
Caldecott Winner 1951I think I really liked it because I remember hunting for Easter eggs with my cousins on a farm. It brings back memories. I have also decorated an egg tree with my own children so I find the book sweet. For today's children, this may only rate a 3, but I am glad that I was taken back down memory lane.
I probably enjoyed this story more than most, but the pictures were fun and the story was touching for me, as it was about a grandmother who teaches her grandkids to paint eggs. It doesn't mention the Pysanky tradition, but it reminded me of my mother, who was a beautiful pysanky egg artist
I'm spoiled and don't usually care for the two-or-three-colored picture books of the 1950s, but this book, full of folk art, was great.
I had not come across this book before. The illustrations were not as brightly colored as today's children's books yet it still had the charm of the Easter bunny.
This book would never get published by a modern publishing house, at least, not without serious editing and formatting changes.
It is really a lot of fun to look at these old Caldecott's and compare them to modern picture books.
Every once in awhile I see some comment to the tune of books not being as good as they were in the 'good old days'.
The formatting is strange for a picture book with sentences and paragraphs split between pages.
Granted, some picture books do this for suspense, but, this one just does it because they've run out of room on the page.
The children beg Grandmom to let them make painted eggs too, so they do and use them to decorate a little tree.
(I'm assuming they are hard-boiled based on the time period, but modern kids are first going to think of plastic eggs so will need some explanation.
And kids are likely to feel sorry for poor children who only get boiled eggs and a cookie instead of candy.) Thirdly, I'm pretty sure based on some of the illustrations that the main characters are all Pennsylvania Dutch (Amish), but it doesn't clearly say that so time period setting is likely to be confusing.
I want to stop and look at the illustrations, but I have to flip the page to complete my sentence first.I'm also not a fan of this type of illustration.
Maybe it is because of the WWII that they could not afford to spend more money on printing full colour illustrations?
Terrible sense of colour throughout the whole book.
I have never heard of this before.The last sentence makes no sense, because the eggs Kathy found were painted by her grandmother and not by the Easter Rabbit.I'm sorry, but 2 stars is the best that I can give.
I. The Egg Tree by Katherine Milhous tells the story of Katy and Carl who are staying with their grandmother over Easter along with their little cousins. Katy and Carl wake up excited to see the eggs the Easter bunny hid. After, doing a bit of egg hunting Katy gets discouraged because she isn’t able to find any eggs like the rest of her cousins. She ventures up to the attic where she finds some beautiful painted eggs hidden in a hat box. Her grandmother explains to her that she painted the eggs
I.	The Egg Tree by Katherine Milhous tells the story of Katy and Carl who are staying with their grandmother over Easter along with their little cousins.
Her grandmother explains to her that she painted the eggs many years ago as part of a Dutch tradition.
Katy wants to keep that tradition going so they all decide to paint their own eggs and hang them on an egg tree, like a Christmas tree, and every year after they add more to it until its basically a celebration unto itself.II.
I do wish it talked more about the culture and tradition of painting eggs.
Grandmom puts the old painted eggshells onto an Easter egg tree and shows the kids how to design such colorful eggs of their own, and before long a bigger tree is needed.
The concept of the egg tree spreads beyond the four walls of Grandmom's house, and by next year's Easter people are coming from all around to observe this Pennsylvania Dutch tradition of decorating an egg tree with bright, colorful eggs.
I would recommend it, either as a foray into the old-time traditions of Pennsylvania Dutch culture or simply as a nice book to read.
But she ends up finding the real treasure when she wanders into the attic--six hand painted hollow eggs her grandmother forgot about hiding there many years ago.
Although the illustrations may seem drab by today's standards and the story may seem to be a bit too long, it certainly captures forever a time, place, and culture.
There is a sentimental quality about the book, too, that insures it will be enjoyed by adults as well as children as they recollect their own growing up days, hunting for eggs in the most unlikely places, and trying to find their own long-forgotten treasures.
Two of the children have never been to their grandma's house for the easter egg hunt before so they're up before everyone else waiting to see the rabbit.
Carl and Katy are the only two up and Carl whistles in order for the Easter bunny to come and eventually it does so they go and wake up the rest of the kids to start the easter egg hunt.
Carl and Katy are starting off having trouble finding eggs like the other kids but eventually Carl starts to find some.
Grandma teaches them and people come to see their egg tree.
The Egg Tree is an Easter Egg hunt book.
I didn't realize that, because I didn't know that there was a tradition of hanging the eggs on a tree - a good one too, one that I hope my son doesn't remember come Easter.
They get visitors to see their egg tree who bring them presents.
It's a little long for a read-along, but he was interested enough, even though he had a disappointment at the start of the book - when the children are waiting for the Easter bunny, they hear some noise.
Little kids are on a hunt for Easter eggs in the beginning and Katy comes across some colorful eggs in the attic, which her grandmother tells her not to eat because she made them when she was a little girl herself.
At first I didn’t really like this children’s book because it seemed rather boring to me and I couldn’t imagine myself reading it to little kids.
However, after looking through it again I started liking it better because I appreciated the little details in it.
This way you can get to know your students better and make them feel more welcome in the classroom.
This book is a fictional children's picture book (Milhous, 1950).
The pictures within The Egg Tree (Milhous, 1950) seem to reflect a style crossed between pastel work, and watercolors.
The illustrator doesn’t seem to like the pages to be too busy, especially since the colors are so often repeated, but in this book the focus seems to be more on the excitement of the painted Easter egg tree tradition within the plot.
For a class activity while teaching, I could use this story to teach about cultural traditions.
The egg tree.
The Egg Tree is about Easter and finding eggs on this special holiday.
They decorate eggs as a family and make an Easter egg tree.
The reading level for this book is grades 3-5.
Comments/observations: This books genre's include realistic fiction and multicultural and the reading level is grades 1-4.
It demonstrates cultural writing because it is based on a family tradition and a classic Pennsylvania Dutch story.
Also since this book is inspired by the Pennsylvania Dutch tradition we could also learn about other cultures and their traditions where I would bring in other books that demonstrate cultural traditions.
Summary: It is Easter time and the children are getting excited for the big Easter egg hunt!
So excited that Katy woke up to the third rooster crowed.
Then all her cousins get up and then the hunt begins for Easter eggs.
She then finds 6 brightly colored eggs in an old hat box.
Illustrations: The illustrates in this book is fulled of wonderful bright colors of Easter.
Simple but yet the colors is what really brings this story to life.
A old style of artistry the what looks like to be from the early 60's and really shows as you can not get book artwork like this book.
The Egg Tree by Katherine Milhous is story of two little children Katy and Carl who spend Easter with their grandmother on a farm in Pennsylvania.
The two children participate in their first Easter egg hunt.
The children found eggs in the magnolia tree, the clock case, butter churn and even in the cookie cutters.
Katy went on to search in the attic where she discovers more eggs.
The decorated eggs that grandmothers made were hung on a tree.
The message of family, hard work and celebration is woven throughout the story.
One of the girls named Katy discovers a special group of six eggs, which have been hollowed out and beautifully painted.
After the children pick one of Katy's special eggs to keep, Grandmom puts the on a small tree, creating an Easter Egg Tree.
The children decide they should make a bigger tree and so decorate many more eggs to put on it, and the following year an even bigger one.
I liked that the back cover of the book included instructions on how to make your own Easter Egg Tree.
The Egg Tree By : Katherine MilhousThis traditional story is of a Pennsylvania Dutch family on Easter day.
This brings all the kinds together and painting and eventually hangs the eggs on a tree for the whole community to see.
It is a very heart warming story that goes back to the traditions of the grandmother.
I think this could also be fun to have kids make their own easter eggs and color them maybe for younger ages you could incorporate into the learning of the letter "E".Milhous, K.
The egg tree.
She shows the grandma what she has found and begs her to teach all the grandchildren how to paint eggs.
The grandma does so and eventually by the next Easter all the children in the village are coming to watch and make eggs that are hung on a tree called the Egg Tree.
The book has good messages about Easter, family, art, and tradition.
Especially because the story was about beautiful painted eggs, it is import that there were illustrations of these eggs in the story.
This book could be used in a religious institution while talking about Easter traditions.
This is another one that alternates between illustrations in a few colors and illustrations in four or more--in this case, pink, black and gray tones alternate with pictures that include those, plus yellow, green and brown.A pretty mundane story about some children finding Easter eggs.
Little Katy is happy that the Easter bunny blessed(?) her with the ability to find some too--in this case, some eggs her Grandma had painted when she was young.
All of the children get excited and want to paint eggs.
When I first looked at the pictures I felt that this book would be a holiday book, I was sort of leaning towards Christmas because of the tree.
When I began to read it I soon read that the story was about Easter and the hunting of eggs and dying them and the grandma decorating the tree with eggs, while the children got excited over seeing such a thing for the first time.
This seems to be the start of a new tradition.
Not very many colors but they give the spring vibe, the feel of something that is about to start, a new beginning.
I feel like this could teach students the value of having traditions.
