https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/660277.She_Came_Back
Sir Philip Jocelyn identifies the shot woman as his wife and she is buried in the family graveyard.Three and a half years later, when Sir Philip is on the verge of proposing to the young woman who was one of his wife’s bridesmaids, Lady Anne Jocelyn returns to England – alive despite living in occupied France and deportation to a concentration camp.
She said it was Annie Joyce who had died that night and all she wanted was a chance to reconcile with her family – and her husband.This is the intriguing plot of the ninth book in Patricia Wentworth’s Miss Silver series.
I particularly enjoy how the relationship between Maud Silver and the Scotland Yard man, Frank Abbot continues to develop.Recently I viewed new presentations of a couple of Miss Marple stories on PBS Masterpiece Mystery and do think there are some similarities between Miss Marple and Miss Silver.
It has been many years since I read the Agatha Christie mysteries, but I am finding that I really like Miss Silver, as a personality, better, and I think she is much more clever and subtle and not so doddering.
I wonder why PBS has not done these mysteries, and if they did, who would they get to play Miss Maud Silver.
I liked this tight little mystery.
It takes place towards the end of WWII where the Germans appear to have essentially lost but there's still spies and the killing blow has not yet been dealt.The author doesn't leave you pondering and guessing as long as some might.
That was good and bad as I liked finding out what happened but Ms Wentworth could have wrung a bit more suspense out of me.
The book ends on a surprise and I gave it high marks for the, "I didn't see that coming." I will definately look for more of her books.
I enjoyed this mystery.
It features armchair sleuth, Miss Maude Silver.
Is it a case of mistaken identity?
Maude Silver is a retired nanny, become detective, who seems to do most of her work from her armchair as she knits wool socks for nephews and other family members.
People who she meets, by chance, are drawn to her and she finds herself involved in this case almost by accident.
An interesting story, if you like writers in the vein of Agatha Christie and Marjery Allingham, you'll enjoy Miss Silver as well.
What an intense mystery!
The wealthy Jocelyn family is shocked by the appearance of a young woman claiming to be Anne Jocelyn, who was presumed shot during the evacuation of France three years earlier.
He believes that this young woman is Annie Joyce, an illegitimate niece whose family resemblance to Anne Jocelyn was well known.
The girl who was killed and buried must therefore have been Annie Joyce.
The romantic story of the reappearing heiress appears in the papers, and a lonely old woman who knew Annie Joyce as a child decides to contact Anne Jocelyn to hear about Annie's last days.
Great Spy ThrillerThis novel was written shortly after World War Two but takes place in wartime. If you enjoy espionage thrillers but dislike the gore and violence and crude language so many of today's novelists seem to think it is necessary to include, you'll love this episode in the famous "Miss Silver" mystery series.
Wonderful mystery, less sappy than others. Gripping story, would have been a 5* but for the fact that there were too many repeats. I think that was the fault of an editor, it's longer than other books and without the repetition it would have been the usual length.
It's nice to see several recurring characters. I'm glad that I'm reading this series in order.
She Came Back (Miss Silver #9), Patricia Wentworth
This story takes place around the end of the WWII. Another good mystery from Ms. Wentworth. It is a while before Ms. Silver makes an appearance. Be patient she will get into thick of things. My only problem was trying to keep up with who was Anne and who was Annie and their family tree. I had a feeling all through the story of what was going to happen next. However, I was completely surprised at the ending. I missed a major clue or maybe I would have figured it out. Good Luck!
This is a very enjoyable comfort read, a Miss Silver mystery.https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2018/0...
The 1940s in England....WW2 going on...Phillip Jocelyn's wife, Anne, returns after being killed by the Germans in France while being rescued by Phillip, declared dead and buried in England.
Is this woman Anne or is she Annie Joyce, her cousin who bears such a close resemblance?
I had to make a chart to keep up with all the relatives.
First, all the relatives who knew Anne had to be convinced, but Phillip never believed she was his wife, Anne.
She did not have Anne's quick temper or her selfishness.
The 'why' would be Anne's large inheritance, but it could also be something more sinister.
A generous four stars, because it was absorbing and hard to put down. As a mystery, it was only okay, but as a suspense story it was gently thrilling.
Excellent premise for the story, and the backdrop of World War II added a lot to the drama.
***SPOILER ALERT***It was disconcerting for the narrative to follow Anne Jocelyn's perspective initially, as though she were who she claimed to be, and then plant seeds of doubt in the reader's mind until it was a certainty that in fact she was not who she claimed to be.
I think generally a reader should be able to trust the presumably omniscient narrator.
Hence I gave it four stars rather than five, even though otherwise the story is compelling and well told.

A very good story set in World War II. An heiress, believed killed during a skirmish on a French beach, returns to her family in England. But her husband, who saw her die and buried her, doesn't believe the woman is his wife. Everyone else does. Then murder ensues. Miss Silver becomes involved in the case and eventually sorts it out.
Absolutely thrilling!! Wonderful storyline, the pacing is just right, the characters are so fleshed out - and in the end, I'm still surprised. Kept me on my toes and thinking until the very last page.Miss Silver is an absolute boss and I'm starting to love her more than Miss Marple I'm afraid...
I really liked the mystery in this one.
Not her best...
I was in the mood for a gentle dip into a gentle little mystery of days gone by, where the heroines are gorgeous yet demure, the villains nefarious, the detective a proper hawkeye and the butler always guilty of something, the whole caboodle dripping in cocktails, priceless gems and awe-inspiring country houses.
Being frugal in matters of imagination, she has one stuttering, wet-as-a-dishrag romantic heroine, one mentally defective yet manly romantic hero (who are fated to come together at the end, after a few silly misunderstandings), and one plot, all of which she rehashes under different names in novels whose only point of difference is the title.
Her detective, the priggish miss silver, is one of those that feel dated at conception.
As far as Philip Jocelyn was concerned his wife Anne had been killed in France by a German bullet in 1940 and her body was buried in the local churchyard at Jocelyn's Holt.
So when a woman claiming to be Anne turns up at the house at Jocelyn's Holt he can't believe it is her.
But if this woman is impersonating his wife, why is she doing it?Miss Silver meets a woman on a train who is travelling to London to meet Lady Jocelyn.
He sees Miss Silver as an interefering old biddy, always turning up where she is not really needed.
Three and a half years later, she returns to London and her former home.
Her husband, who was working with British secret service, had buried her, and was in love with another woman, immediately calls her Annie Joyce, a first cousin of his wife who looked a lot like her.
They set up in a London apartment with separate bedrooms, and she tries to win him over.
Then a woman who had raised Annie Joyce asks to see Anne and is murdered on her way.
Philip's new love is in danger, but Miss Silver figures out all allowing Scotland Yard to get the credit.
It was okay but I'm not entirely convinced to buy the collection.Miss Silver herself is very similar in style to Miss Marple - although in contrast to the latter, Miss Silver has taken up the role of private investigator more formally and has established relationship with the police.
This mystery is set in 1943/4 and involves impersonation and espionage - but apart from mention of rationing, the war very much takes a back seat.
Air raid warnings, the black out and other things that inconvenienced daily life just aren't mentioned.
This may explain why Miss Marple has had lasting popularity whilst Miss Silver had slid into obscurity before these books were republished.(Shelved for now)
Sir Philip Jocelyn lost his wife in a flight from the oncoming German armies during the collapse of France.
The death of Lady Jocelyn is an accepted thing.
Sir Philip states categorically that the woman is instead his wife's first cousin, from an illegitimate family line.
How far would he go to get out of the marriage?Wentworth did a skillful job of unfolding the character of the putative Lady Jocelyn so that we would understand her and the situation the family finds itself in.
Miss Silver at last steps in from the sidelines to prevent a third death.I read this 30 years ago and hadn't an inkling of a memory until I checked my reading catalogue.
Before fingerprinting was common and decades before DNA, how did people know for sure whether the person presumed dead, who has just returned alive, is who they say they are? This is the problem faced by Sir Philip who thought he had buried and mourned his wife three years earlier. Now, a woman has come back from Nazi-occupied France and claims to be the departed Lady Anne. Is it a coincidence that Philip has recently been assigned to the war office? A delightful mystery and an even better description of London during World War II.
Early Bird Books Deal | Aside from the difficulties of reading a book in which the central question is the identity of a person who is either Anne Jocelyn or named Annie Joyce and many of the other characters are Jocelyns with a few other Joyces thrown in for good measure, this was pretty good. Lots of pretty obvious things, but I don't read cozies in search of a deep and puzzling brain-teaser. | This is where I've had to stop reading strictly in order. Starting with this book, I'll be skipping around the series based on availability.
Anne Jocelyn, reported killed in Occupied France, returns to her English home, family, husband and fortune, but no one is glad to see her except a young cousin. And is Anne who she claims to be, just changed by her wartime experiences? Private investigator Miss Silver sorts it all out—mystery, murder and espionage. Unfortunately, at one key point, the heroine acts so implausibly, her unbelievable action undermines the very clever plot twist that follows.
Another excellent Patricia Wentworth. Mistaken identity/lookalikes is always an intriguing subject, and I was drawn along with this one.My one complaint is that it ended up being a government/spy situation. There are a few Christie books like this as well, and I've never enjoyed them as much as I enjoy the straightforward murder mysteries. But I suppose it was something that was very much a hot topic at the time.
This was an interesting mystery, almost as interesting for the WWII setting (the book was published in 1945) as for the puzzle itself. But it was a pretty good puzzle too! Wentworth reminds me a lot of Christie, and her Miss Silver could definitely hold her in own in knitting contest (or a detecting contest) with Miss Marple.
