https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1170964.Woodswoman_I
What a comfort, as I contemplate my lifelong dream to move to a cabin in the northern woods in coming years, that another woman has done something similar in her life some decades ago, and made it work for her so well.
With only a bit of help in the heaviest or trickiest part of the labor, LaBastille designed and built the cabin herself in short order.Mind you, this is no burly Amazon woman.
She’s just a woman who is comfortable alone, knows how to take care of herself, and loves nature.LaBastille has had a loyal following of readers ever since her series of Woodswoman books first came out, beginning in the mid 1970s.
This dream lifestyle lasts about 24 hours after I finish a book like Woodswoman, and then reality sets back in in the form of working plumbing, running water, Big Macs and trips to Borders.I greatly admire people like Anne LaBastille, who decided after her divorce (circa 1960's) to move from her and her ex-husband's Adirondack resort hotel to a 22 acre plot of land in the middle of the Adirondack wilderness.
She also seemed like a somewhat reserved person who enjoyed her friends, welcomed visitors, but didn't easily let people into her inner self.I look forward to reading the final 2 books in her wilderness trilogy:Woodswoman II: Beyond Black Bear LakeWoodswoman III: Book Three of the Woodswoman's Adventures
The best book I've read so far this year.
Just when I think I'm becoming more adept at being in the woods, I read about someone like Anne and realize how far I have to go.
Anne bought a small piece of land in the Adirondacks after her divorce in the 1960's/70's and built her own log cabin.
What makes this so special and personal for me is that Anne lived on Twitchell Lake, a lake where we almost purchased a small cabin.
Anne wrote a new book every 10 years of her like.
Really a beautiful, and beautifully slow memoir by this incredible woman who seemed to predate the back-to-the-land movement, ecological awareness and the women's movement by choosing to build her log cabin and be self-sufficient in the Adirondack wilderness.. Some lovely descriptions of nature and the simple, gruelling and lonely life out there with the trees and beavers.
I'd never heard of her, but the obit (she died last year) intrigued me; LaBastille went off to live alone in the Adirondacks after a divorce, in a log cabin she built herself.
Hers was the original Eat, Pray, Love story (written in the 1970s), except her new life wasn't an assignment or stunt; she supported herself in her 12 by 12 foot cabin for decades as a conservationist consultant, writer, and photographer.I've been fascinated with the Adirondacks ever since attending a one-week summer camp there when I was 16, so I wrote her name down and ordered the book from the library the next day.
It is the first in a series of four books - true stories about the author and her life living in a cabin she built herself on a lake in the Adirondacks.
It was jumpy, some of her word choices were very strange, and the detours she took from the main story of the chapter to describe things were quite distracting.
The story of rowing across the lake and watching the ice freeze up behind her.
The story of the locals placing a 50lb barrel on the frozen-over lake and making bets as to when it would fall through the ice.
I loved this book.
You could feel the authors pride for her little cabin, her chagrin when she related a mistake she had made, her devotion to the wilderness.
You have inspired me!Fun story: I bought this book off of the used section of Amazon, and I always buy the cheapest .60 cents ones i can find, particularly when the author has deceased and I dont have to feel guilty about not paying them.
When I opened it up I realized that they had sent me a signed copy.
Was it a sign?
By the end of the book it sure felt like it.
Everybody who ever dreamed of living in a log cabin in the wilderness will be thrilled with LaBastil
A remarkable book by one of my favorite enviromentalists, Anne LaBastille. After her divorce, Anne goes to the Adirondack Mountains and builds her own cabin in the back of beyond. The book is filled with amazing truths about life in the 1970's as well as examines the people, flora, and fauna of her new home. The book inspired a new generation of women environmentalsits.
Very interesting read. I was intrigued and impressed by what LaBastille did building and living in a small, off grid cabin in the Adirondacks.
This was very inspirational. It's conversational and sometimes boring, too. I kept putting it down to add a first aid kit or ax to my wish list, which I think is a great quality in a book.
The author's descriptions of the wilderness and life in a log cabin are beautifully written.
My favorite section was a canoe trip she took on the day Neil Armstrong walked on the moon.
Her passage about gazing up at the full moon while experiencing the utter stillness of the lake was gorgeous.However, her dialogue is forced and she relies too much on exclamation marks -- it reminded me of the Nancy Drew books I read as a kid -- but I will forgive her those grammatical mishaps and happily recommend the book to anyone who loves the great outdoors.
So happy to have stumbled upon this book!
It was just wonderful!
Recently divorced, Anne LaBastille builds a small log cabin on a wild plot of land in the Adirondacks and lives there alone for many years, writing and exploring and learning what it means to exist in connection with Mother Earth.
Her prose was engaging and visual.
Every time I came to the book, I was able to escape into the woods with her.
Also, it amazes me that this book was written in 1975, but it's still so incredibly relevant today.
This was a fascinating book about a young woman that leaves traditional society to love in the woods. She builds a small, rustic cabin to live in while she studies nature and finds herself. It is very intriguing to think that someone could live this way in this day and age!
I just happened upon this book in an Illinois Goodwill store and it sounded interesting so I took it home. It was a nice slow relaxing read and definitely made me want to build a cabin of my own and live out in the mountains where I can read all my books in the quiet. 😉
I was especially interested in The Final Frontiersman: Heimo Korth and His Family, Alone in Alaska's Arctic Wilderness, detailing the story of Heimo Korth and his family in the back country of Alaska.
She's relentlessly independent, which I found so inspiring, especially as she admitted she had had to learn to throw off society's expectations of women as weak or unable to manage.
Unlike everyone else in the country, LaBastille wasn't watching the historic event on television.
Instead, she went camping in that night, and stared up at the full moon in wonder, knowing men were finally landing on another part of our solar system.
This book is all about the self reliance movement of one woman as she takes on the Adirondack wilderness and lives alone there in a log cabin of her own making.
Anne's book waffles between a sort of armored egoism and a beautiful dance with nature.
I'd read it if you love nature and camping and ecology and want to be inspired by a strong woman but, don't pin all your hopes on Anne's coming through for you.
I do have to say that it inflamed some serious wilderness camping lust in me and made me really want to go explore the inner Adirondacks someday.
It's THE book for those of us who live to go camping and backpacking, who daydream what would be like to escape into the wilderness.The skinny is Anne LaBastille goes through a divorce then re-invents herself in the wilderness of the Adirondacks in the early 1970's.
She, much like "Pa Wilder," Laura Ingalls Wilder's father, lives like a pioneer, hewing her own logs, making a cabin from scratch the pioneer-way.
I was reminded of the Little House books and how Laura Ingalls Wilder was attentive to detail, explaining how one builds a log cabin with just basic tools, a saw, a hammer.
Both books take place in the same time period, although in different locations.
Reading books of this genre helps me more deeply appreciate the rural 'feel' of the area in which I live (it's hard to classify it as truly rural when we are so close to a metropolis), in great contrast to the large city in which I work.
(No more living in the "concrete jungle" for me, thank you!) I do feel fortunate to have a home to escape to that isn't quite so laden with urban difficulties, and I admire those who make a clean break from all of it.
when I was in the Adirondacks, in a bike-and-outdoors-shop, I came across Anne LaBastille's books.
she lived in the Adirondacks her entire adult life, and even though I picked up the books for a friend, I ended up borrowing them and devouring them.
I found Woodswoman compelling and fascinating.
it wasn't superbly written, but it was a fascinating story.
Ms. Labastille was a gusty, fiercely independent, strong-willing woman who absolutely loved the woods she lived in, and was totally committed to building a life in the wilderness she loved.
fascinating, inspiring, and full of descriptions and photos that tug my heart toward the trees.
OK, I'm ready to move to the woods, learn to use an ax, swim and canoe in a lake every day, and learn to photograph wildlife. Let's do it! I'm still a little scared of chainsaws and appendicitis, though. And I would like to grow vegetables instead of eating mostly beaver meat and champagne.As a DC resident, I enjoyed the later part of the book where Anne moves to Georgetown for a short-term contract job and contrasts the District with the Adirondacks. Spoiler: DC does not come out on top.
"And that these trials will give me depth and stature so that in old age I can be like my big white pines - dignified, lending beauty to the surroundings, and lifting their heads with strength and serenity to both sun and storms, snowflakes and swallows." - Anne LabastilleThis book is fabulous! Anne's tale of living alone in the Adirondack wilderness is beautifully written and incredibly inspiring. I recommend this book to anyone that enjoys the outdoors and to women who feel inferior in the world.
Woodswoman by Anne LaBastilleAfter her divorce she bought some land and built herself a cabin to live in.Love how she is able to survive with her skills. Very descriptive details and you can imagine yourself there in the wild during the different seasons.Many stories of events that occur...Liked talk of preserving the land and what is done.I received this book from National Library Service for my BARD (Braille Audio Reading Device).
Let's be clear here -I am a city girl through and through. I would Never want to live alone in a cabin away from everything but nature. That being said, I Loved this book and hearing her voice and love for the Adirondacks. Maybe it's from a childhood reading My Side of the Mountain.
Anne LaBastille and this book made a tremendous impact on my life. I met her at a very intimate workshop when I was in college, with one in her long line of German Shepherds, and she is very likely why I became a wildlife biologist. This is the adult version of "My Side of the Mountain".
Although I never got so into Anne's writing style that I couldn't put this book down, it was definitely worth the time it took to read it. Her life at the lake is interesting and inspiring.
Beautiful. Inspiring. This pulled my heart strings in a very personal way. The strength and courage Anne carried to live just as her heart had wanted to, just amazing.
A classic. Homesteading w/ dogs by herself.
This book is about her experiences becoming, and going on to live a life as a woodswoman, her love of nature (which goes hand in hand with being a good woodswoman), and being strong, capable, & independent.
In fact, I could picture daily life just as it is at our own cabin in remote northern Ontario now in the 21st century.
The freezing cold of Anne's first Christmas also reminded me vividly of life here in northern MN.
"I hate to see wild bears frequenting garbage dumps, eating junk foods, getting fat and sloppy, being speckled with flies, and tolerating crowds of gawkers.
I like to think I’m living a rugged life in the woods, but it’s nothing compared to what Anne LaBastille did.
She had no electricity, phone or Internet, but LaBastille, a writer and ecologist, created an idyllic life in which she bathed in Lake Serene, became one with the plants and animals, and taught herself the skills needed to survive.
Overall, it’s a pleasing journey to a simpler time and place, something we all need these days, as well as a picture of a woman surviving and thriving alone.
