https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228992.White_Gold_Wielder
I pretty much wanted to see Thomas Covenant strangled, but I couldn't stop reading the darn series
Unlike other reviews I've read, I liked the second trilogy as much as the first.
And in the first trilogy, Thomas Covenant WAS a very hard hero to like.
Thomas Covenant was a real person, flawed, dealing with his life (and the "dream" of the Land) in the only way he knew how.
I didn't know that there was a third trilogy until I was reading reviews of Thomas Covenant online (which I always do after reading a series, because I'm sad it's over and want to read other people's views on it).
While I enjoyed the series, and thought it was a fascinating universe with interesting characters, I had two major problems.
#2 - Without going into any spoilers, I will say that the protagonist kicks off the series by committing a horrific act.
It's difficult to root for a character you dislike, and I'm not sure I can ever fully wipe away my dislike for him, no matter how the stories may end.
Nearly all the characters have a lot of depth and personality, and the protagonist, Thomas Covenant, is very lifelike and has a distinct personality.
It is required of us only that we hold fast in every gale and let come what may.""That is the grace which has been given to you.
Covenant, Linden, and their band of friends make their way to Mount Thunder to confront Lord Foul and put an end to his destruction once and for all.This book was a very, very emotional read.
The previous two books in the trilogy were just so hard to read due to all the terrible things that these characters were forced to endure.
It truly is remarkable."Hope doesn't come from us.
Our hero and the Doctor return again to fight for the Land.In this novel, Donaldson surpasses his previous ending.
In this book he has finally come to terms with much that he was told/should understand, using that knowledge to force things to a victory.Some might say that it is a hollow (or "Phyrric" for you classicists out there) victory given the cost, but it does the job.
Another fine novel.(view spoiler)[Okay, so I wrote that the book comes to a conclusion - and so it does.
I did not mind that the author chose such a final end to this book.
Thomas Covenant has an equally-flawed assistant, and it is even more fascinating to see their issues interact than it was just watching TC make it through the first trilogy.If you missed my review of the first series, you might want to read it, as I did a much better job with that one.Mr. Donaldson remains extraordinary, and the Second Chronicles are just as worthy of all the praise heaped upon the First Chronicles.
Don't read this just for moments a day, and don't read it while you're multitasking with the kids, the TV, or the spousal or parental units - you won't do it justice, and you'll miss out on some of the most gorgeously crafted prose existing in American fantasy.This review applies to the entire trilogy.
Arguably the best epic fantasy since JRR Tolkein (with apologies to Roger Zelazny and the Prices of Amber series), this is the last in the second trilogy of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever (read the other trilogy first to appreciate this trilogy). It is a terrific coda. However, I must note that it starts off with a violent act and should only be read after your parents have signed off on the mature themes.
Re-read this (and all the Covenant books) in preparation for the anticipated 10th and final Covenant book publication in fall, 2013. A magnificent ending to the Second Chronicles - Donaldson is even better in this trilogy than in the first!
In the first chronicles, Covenant was exploring and coming to an understanding of The Land.
In the second chronicles, Covenant totally understands The Land.
Far too much of the second chronicles involves the party traveling with no clear goal, but White Gold Wielder is at least punctuated by some epic conflicts.There's very clear parallels to the third book in the first trilogy.
It is necessary for Covenant to journey to Mount Thunder (in a plotline ripped directly from "Lord of the Ring's") to confront Lord Foul directly.
And in between Revelstone and Mount Thunder, there's some angsty emotional conflict between Covenant and his friends that I find boring.
GReat story. Got some other books to read first, but will get into the next part of the series....Thomas Covenant knew that despite his failure on the Isle of The One Tree, he had to return to the Land and fight. After a long and arduous journey, fighting all the way, he readies himself for the final showdown with Lord Foul, the Despiser, and begins to understand things he had only just wondered about before....
#11 1988
Plots and subplots were put into motion and promised an epic battle for the heart and soul of the living Land.However, Donaldson wallowed in lugubrious reflection, second guessing, and overwrought emotion.
Much of the second trilogy, especially the second book, is page after page of Linden brooding about something Covenant said or did.
We find that Foul and his existence are as essential to the existence of the Land as is the staff of law.The end of the second trilogy sets up another sequel which Donaldson would undertake almost 30 years later.
Three books have been published in the FINAL CHRONICLES OF THOMAS COVENANT.
This book, and the other books of this series about Sir Thomas Covenant are the only books that actually made me sweat when reading them.
After reading this book, the first I read of the series, I said I would never read this author again.
I couldn't help myself though, after I recovered from the first book.
By the time I had read all the books in the series, I was more accustomed to Donaldson's writing style, and after reading about his childhood (very interesting, and a must read in itself), I understood why the characters were so real, and why I went through so much reading the series.
I read this entire series. Unlike most series, it doesn't fade in interest after the first book. As the publisher states: "These books have never received the recognition they deserve. It's one of the most powerful and complex fantasy trilogies since Lord of the Rings, but Donaldson is not just another Tolkien wanabee. Each character-driven book introduces unexpected plots, sub-plots, and a host of magical beings so believably rendered you'd believe you might bump into them on your way to the bookstore." Thomas is such a strange and unlikely hero!!
Najlosija u serijalu, koji inace uopste nije los.
For some twenty years, this was the final Covenant novel, until author Stephen Donaldson wrote the third series.
She does not disappoint in this novel.For many years, White Gold Wielder stood as the capper to this series, and for that reason, much as I love it, I could not fully enjoy reading it because I knew that it represented the end of my journey in the Land.
This happens most of the time -- once I get to the mid-point of this novel, I can't put it down until the end.If you have liked the other novels in this series, White Gold Wielder is well worth a read.
battle of Land and goldwithout the Staff of Law, Thomas feels that his whole quest has been a failure. now he must return to the broken Land to pit himself against Foul with the knowledge that it might cost him everything thing and everyone. but he is leper and he knows hope.I enjoyed this series as much as the first. the inclusion of a second protagonist was an excellent balance.
This is the end of the second chronicles, end of the second trilogy. Wow...I know I read this many, many years ago but there was so much that I had forgotten! The last chronicles await me...but I have to put them on hold for a little while. I need other stories to refresh me. These last 6 books have been draining even though I really enjoyed them.
A Good EndingDon't expect to get a lot of sleep while reading this conclusion to the Unbelievers time in the Land. If we read it carefully there is something we can all learn about ourselves in this fantastic epic.
Thomas was still being a bitch, but nice wrap up to the second trilogy.
See book 1 for description of all 6 books.
I liked it when I was 17, but I want to review it again
Fairly good conclusion; everything fits together rather neatly.
All the Chronicles of Sir Thomas Covenant are excellent fantasy with strange worlds and a very unlikely hero/ I would recommend these books to anyone who enjoys a good journey a great book
Perfect ending!!
There are ups and down, mistrust to the very end, doubt which are the nature of these two intensely depicted chacters, but throughout their is also a sense of togetherness and affection, leaning on each other, a humanity that makes the battle against Foul, whether internal or external, physical or mental, real or fantasy, emotionally very real.The symbolism continues to the end - the sickness of the Land mirrored by Linden's depression and Covenant's leprosy, the white gold alloyed to create power from two imperfections, Covenant's fusing of his conflicted self, self-acceptance making the whole stronger.
In this book, Covenant, Avery and the other remaining members of the failed quest for the One Tree undertake the arduous journey back to The Land, where showdowns against the Clave at Revelstone and Lord Foul at Mt. Thunder occur.In this trilogy with 2 main characters, one or the other character had been emphasized in the previous volumes.
And characters from The Wounded Land that were not part of the quest for the One Tree are reintroduced in WGW bearing their own tales of hardship and woe.WGW puts Donaldson’s highly competent plotting on good display.
Even Thomas Covenant seems darker (if that's even possible; I mean, hell, his first reaction to The Land was to rape a 16-year-old).Anyway, The Second Chronicles are darker.
His fight with the Haruchai was probably one of the most gripping fight scenes I've read.And Pitchwife was like Foamfollower only even more endearing for his disability and un-Giantness, which made him all the more Giant-like in the end.The final novel of the trilogy made me anxious.
Not knowing there would be a third trilogy, I saw this as THE FINAL NOVEL, and I knew the story would have to be given a conclusion.
I read this second Thomas Covenant trilogy as the books were released.
Even so, I was not fair to this trilogy when I read them.
This trilogy is certainly not like the first one.In some ways it's better.
This trilogy makes us focus on what's really happening, not picture everything we've ever known before.What's hard is that we have no real respite from other characters.
I love them, and I love how Covenant deals with them.
He had to make the over-arching story work.I ran out of steam waiting for the books in the "Final Chronicles" to come out.
The second Thomas Covenant Trilogy comes to an end with a more than satisfying conclusion.
As is the norm with Thomas Covenant we are treated to a fair number of introspective moments as indeed we are with Linden Avery.
The heartache felt by Covenant at the desecration of the Land that he loves fuels his rage at the Despiser, Lord Foul, to such an extent that he risks tearing the world apart with his wild magic.The Elohim, Findail, and the demondim born, Vain, draw nearer to the revelation of their purpose.
