https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9539.The_Shadow_Rising
Fantastic!! ❤️
As I read this I frequently looked up at my Wheel of Time shelf, at the nine books I have yet to read in the series, which serve as a reminder that I’ve barely scratched the surface of this totally epic fantasy world.
The Mighty Wolf and the Absent Raven So the world is rather complex, and one character that has remained absolutely true so far, to himself, and his friends, is Perrin.
Here's how I've found the series so far:The Wheel of Time1.
There are neither beginnings nor endings to the turning of the Wheel of Time.
*unsuccessfully attempts to suppresses rage* OHMYGAWD, I HATE her!!After all of that is out of the way, one of the coolest ( and creepiest) things that happens in the whole series goes down:“As the seals holding the Dark One’s prison weaken,” she said after a time, “it may be inevitable that a .
He had left his shocklance and fancloth battle cape somewhere, but he still wore his helmet, like some monstrous insect’s head, its mandibles hiding his face though his black shockvisor was raised.And today she [Mierin] and Beidomon would tap it for the first time—the last time men and women would work together wielding a different Power.
“If you plan for the worst, all surprises are pleasant.” fourth book in WoT and I learned few things from last three book, 1) pack your bags to embark on a journey as one set of the character or the other is always on the move, and we hit the jackpot here with everyone on a journey of their own, 2) close your eyes if you don't want them in your brain because the girls would make you eye-roll in every time you meet them, 3) be ready for the dragging middle chapters. And if you somehow still end
And if you somehow still end up liking the characters, world, and magic (like me), then you would be rewarded in end.This book mainly has three plot lines; Rand & Mat going into Aiel Waste, Nynaeve & Elyane going to Tanchico to find Black Ajah, Perrin & Faile going back to Two Rivers to save from the Whitecloaks.
He really came out of Rand's shadow and hold his own against Whitecloaks and Trollorcs.
Rand's journey was marvelous too, though it took almost whole book to see him in action but the build up to that final scene was amazing.
3.5 starsORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.In The Shadow Rising, things start to slow down.
In fact, it often feel like the reading of the story must take longer than it took for the events to actually occur.Part of the problem is that Mr Jordan tells us nearly everything except when the characters make a bowel movement.
It gets to the point of ridiculousness when, even though they've nearly been destroyed by enemies, Tinkers are still cringing at the swords of the people protecting them.
Read more Robert Jordan book reviews at Fantasy literature.
May the Light save us from him.The People of the Dragon hold the Stone of Tear, and mighty Callandor lies in the hands of the Dragon Reborn.
And the Forsaken return to the world of men, heralding the coming of the Dark One. And a group of ordinary men and women from the village of Emond’s Field are left to combat the Shadow Rising.The Shadow Rising is in many ways the best book in The Wheel of Time series so far.
Characters like Rand, Nynaeve, Perrin and Egwene, who frustrated me immensely in book two and three, seem to have grown up a little.
Sorry, I had to do it; now back to the review.It is hard to say anything about the fourth book in a series without giving huge spoilers.
Mat slowly becomes the most interesting character in the series and will stay that way until the last book written by Jordan.
I really need to mention that the history of Aiel which he sees in flashbacks going back in time is one of the most powerful moments of the series, if not the most powerful.
The only reason I would lower the rating was the character of Gawyn whom I already mentioned, but he alone cannot spoil an otherwise excellent installment of the series.
*** 5 *** A push to catch up with the BB&B read of the full series by August!
Everything that happens here could fill ten regular books and make all of them burst with content!
Thus, I am only going to note that Rand is making strides toward establishing himself as The Dragon Reborn and havoc follows wherever any of our three Tav'eren step foot.
The five kids from The Two Rivers are all learning and slowly but surely are establishing their influence on the web which The Wheel of Time weaves...
Happy reading to all and may you always expand your mind with books of the fantastic!
While a lot of this is still really interesting due to the time spent with the Aeil I struggle so much with Mat. I'm waiting for him to break out of his selfish thoughts and become truly great but currently he is busy going through mysterious doors and talking with alien people.
Nynaeve and Elyane's was the other arc that was interesting because they are on a very dangerous journey to find the women who left the White Tower and have given themselves to the Dark One. Two against Thirteen doesn't seem fair odds but with a little company they might do okay.This was my favorite book of the series so far.
The Shadow Rising did everything right when it comes to continuing a series by continuing to flush out the characters and their relationships in addition to moving the plot forward.
Even with all this action the question whether The Shadow Rising is too long remains.
Jordan manages to weave the four main story lines into a good novel as far as I am concerned.
Jordan has shown himself quite capable of handling the four main story lines in this book.
Still, I think this book shows Jordan is capable of more than he has shown us in the previous entries in the series.
“The Shadow shall rise across the world, and darken every land, even to the smallest corner, and there shall be neither Light nor safety. And he who shall be born of the Dawn, born of the Maiden, according to Prophecy, he shall stretch forth his hands to catch the Shadow, and the world shall scream in the pain of salvation."   4.5 Stars: ✰✰✰✰ In terms of overall content, this was the best book so far. Book Four of the Wheel of Time continued in the same vein as The Great Hunt, making huge deve
Book Four of the Wheel of Time continued in the same vein as The Great Hunt, making huge developments in the worldbuilding, the characters, and the story as a whole.
This really did a great job of broadening the scope once again, showing us almost every corner of this vast world, and tying together many different elements of the story that have popped here and there throughout all of the previous books.
The way that Jordan develops the story in these books is honestly really unique and interesting to me.
This book had a few things in it that really changed the way you think about both individual characters and entire people groups as a whole.
:'( - One of Jordan's greatest tricks, taking a character I absolutely despised in "The Great Hunt" and making me actually feel sympathy and affection for that person this time around.
- I don't care if her eye color is all wrong for the part, Is they make a Wheel of Time movie, Eva Green should totally play Moiraine.
Don't fret, Eva, you'll always be Moiraine to me!Listing the Wheel of Time books in order of preference so far:The Shadow RisingThe Great HuntThe Eye of the WorldThe Dragon Reborn
"The Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend. Legend fades to myth and even myth is long forgotten when the Age that gave it birth returns again.What was, what will be, and what is, may yet fall under the Shadow."I absolutely love this book Alhamdulillah!I feel so great to come back read 'The Wheel of Time'.I love the relationship between Perrin and Falie. I am curious about Aiel culture.'The Wheel of Time' is definitely one of my favourite book series!
Is it weird that I pretty much only love this for Lan and Nynaeve? Oh, and Loial. Perrin is pretty awesome too. NOT YOU FAILE. OR YOU EGWENE. You're still the worst. Sigh. Lan. This series need so much more Lan. Great story, though there is so much story now I'm getting to a point where it's becoming hard to keep track. Thank God for the WOT Wiki.
I have to read through entire chapters of Loial’s ear quivering and him getting a boner over trees, so at least let me see him doing cool shit in those few instances where he’s allowed to do cool shit!Anyway, the Trolloc attack, the book proceeds to split into three (I guess four, if you count Min in the White Tower) separate storylines, and various characters employ all the different cheats Jordan has set up to allow people cover large distances in a short timespan.
Faile, Perrin and company take the Ways back to the Two Rivers, Elayne and Nynaeve go to hunt Black Ajah in Tanchico, and the Rand Band sets off for Rhuidean in the Aiel Waste.The Rhuidean stuff is cool.
Even things like pipeweed (Tolkien) and tabac (Jordan) being grown in the area that the hero is from (and it being considered superior quality too).But this novel also reminded me of Frank Herbert’s Dune.
Rand, just like Paul, struggles to maintain his independence both from them and from prophecy.Two things annoyed me during the course of the novel.
Being stubborn does not equal power or independence, in female or male characters and I see it in far too much fiction.I can’t believe how many pages I have read and I am only through book 4 of 14.
At least in George RR Martin's books, even though the women were treated like crap, raped, beaten, etc, they still maintain dignity, bravery, and are overall very well-developed characters.
Almost all of the females in Robert Jordan's books are cruel, stubborn, naggy, spiteful, foolish, or simpering and frou frou.
It got very tiring quickly with all the "Rand is so awesome!" crap, and his character went from a cool, down-home farm boy to some cold-hearted, cynic in just a few chapters.
I understand per the plot that he would change, but I didn't expect it so quickly.
I have reached a point of no return with this series.
Considered by many to be one of the best books in the initial half of the series, it might just be.Rand finally grew a pair, so there's that.
Mat is getting more and more awesome with every book!About Perrin, well, I don't know what to say.
He is all cool and respectable but Faile got on my nerves at times.
Heh, the whole banner thingy was cool though.Talking about Faile, Elayne and Egwene are un-fucking-bearable.
And well, their whiny behavior does add a bit of charm to the book?
At this point it already feels like there is not much left to say but to pay homage every time to this incredible series. This one is a real mover/shaker with all-around interesting POV’s, an abundance of important events unfolding and very exciting worldbuilding taking place. It starts off with a sprint out of the blocks and never really lets up much until the finale. Just WOW.SPOILERSHighlights include: (view spoiler)[- Opening fight at the Stone- Bubbles of Evil- More Forsaken- Rand & The
At this point it already feels like there is not much left to say but to pay homage every time to this incredible series.
Just WOW.SPOILERSHighlights include: (view spoiler)[-	Opening fight at the Stone-	Bubbles of Evil-	More Forsaken-	Rand & The People of the Dragon-	Perrin & Faile-	Perrin makes a name for himself-	Perrin vs Slayer-	Siuan & Leane get stilled-	Aviendha-	Rhuidean-	The great Black Ajah Hunt-	How the Aiel became the Aiel-	Mat visits another world & skills up-	Rand vs Asmodean-	Nynaeve vs Moghedien  (hide spoiler)]4.5 well deserved stars.
Egwene has started training with the Aeil Wise Ones and I have to say I loved how they punished her when she went against their orders, I'm hoping that the time she has spent with them will have made her grow up a little and perhaps she'll be less irritating in the future.Nynaeve and Elayne separate from the others to go off hunting Black Ajah on the orders of the Amyrlin and that probably places them in the greatest danger (alongside Perrin) for the moment.
Executive Summary: This is a pretty good book, but it could have been a really good book if the first 20% of this book wasn't so slow. Nothing happened. For like 8 hours of audio. A sign of things to come. 3.5 stars rounded up for the much stronger 80%.Audiobook: Another fantastic audio book by Micheal Kramer and Kate Reading. I doubt I could have gotten through the first 20% again if not for doing it in audio. Full Review My original review from my first read complained about a slow start. It w
I can remember now why he was my favorite of the series for so long though.My favorite parts on this reread was Mat. I had been waiting for some of these events to happen, thinking they occurred in books 2 or 3.
I think I like Mat a lot earlier on in the series than I did originally.
We're just as in the dark as everyone else.Overall, I enjoyed this book, but that first 20% is really a sign of things to come, and why I went from telling everyone and their brother to read this series, to struggling to get through the middle to when things finally get good again.I still really like this series, but feel like it could have used a better editing sometimes.
Mat can still be a bit of an ass at times, but at least he is better than he was in the early books and he had some cool stuff happening to him in this one.One of the things I like about WoT is the large cast and this one continued to deliver some interesting lesser POV's from some of the villains and other minor characters which helped enhance the story.Rating: This was easily a 5 star read for me.
The last book for me was so far the least engaging, but this one not only gained the previous pace of the series, but took the whole story on an entire new level.
Approved:- The parallel stories in Two Rivers and Aiel: I ABSOLUTELY LOVED reading about Aiel.
There is so much pouting going on I would probably make a small book if I took all of the sentences where someone is pouting.
There were moments when I really, really wanted to punch stupid ugly Faile and her puppy bullshit, and also idiot Nynaeve, who used to be my favourite female character.
This book was a huge improvement when compared to the previous one. The plot advanced with a good pace and the world building was impressive. However, this is where I will stop reading the books written by Jordan. While I admire the world he created, his writing isn't to my taste. His female point of views are extremely annoying, as the only way he knew how to depicts strong women was to make them bullies. For my Goodreads friends that will continue the journey, I wish you lots of fun. It is time for me to take other journeys.
Her story with Elayne was my least favorite, though I like the addition of Egeanin, mostly because I love when characters change their minds about important things.
The Black Ajah have no understandable motivations, and I just hate them.The one thing I'm not sure what to think about, because it seems to be a deliberate choice on Jordan's part, is how divorced we are from Rand's experiences after he accepted being the Dragon Reborn in book two.
Is Rand supposed to be a god-like figure now?
I also love how powerful she is in the power even if I don’t particularly care for her block and needing anger to overcome it right now.
I do t really care for Elayne’s chapters at this point but I remember enjoying them later in the series.
Matt is finally the Matt I remember after his trip to Rhuidean and Rand is so much more fun to read as an adult than he was when I was a far more idealistic kid.My one thing I have started to notice though is that the trollocs really are the Storm Troopers of this series.
Well, here we go again. It was actually better than I remembered. I love this series. Sixth time thru...and it keeps getting better and more nuanced.
The fourth part of fourteen books in the Wheel of Time is one of the best. This is a general opinion, not simply my own. However I tend to think that the last three so far have perhaps been my favourites in the series. What works? 1. Storytelling - Robert Jordan knows how to tell a story and he is at the peak of his power in this novel. There are multiple perspectives involved which include all the main characters off on their individual tasks. Robert Jordan knows when to introduce certain plot
Robert Jordan knows when to introduce certain plot points for the most part and how to get into character's heads when writing in their perspectives.2.
I believe Terry Goodkind was inspired by this but I can't say his books are really that great, so maybe that's not a point in Robert Jordan's favour.3.
Gender relations - Yes, Robert Jordan in some ways can write female characters.
Faile for instance is one of the golden female characters in fantasy in my personal opinion.
Since writing is born out of people's thoughts there is no way that any book won't have flaws.
It took me incredibly long to finish this, mainly because I got seriously stuck in the first third of the book.It’s interesting to note that whenever the characters get bogged down, the story gets bogged down with them.
It’s not quite pointless, there is some intrigue and at least one memorable action sequence, but sometimes it does feel a bit like an unnecessary build-up to better things.
The final sequence with Rand and the Aiel was a spectacle of note and goes a long way in redeeming much of what could be considered the novel’s shortcomings.The Lord of the Rings influence that was so prominent in the first Wheel of Time novel, has dwindled significantly by this stage.
*Possible spoilers on the previous books*The Shadow Rising is one of my favorites of the series - and one of my all-time personal favorites.
Actually, it feels more like three separate books once the group splits up again.
The introduction to these 'three books' takes place in Tear as Rand tries to figure out how to rule a nation and deal with political intrigue.
He comes into his own in this book, and I love where it takes him.
You just have to experience it.And pay attention - a lot of details in this book turn out to be important later!
