https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/817225.The_King_s_Secret_Matter
Audiobook #248
This is the second book of Eleanor Hibbert’s, aka Jean Plaidy, that I’ve tried, and I have to say, I stop here.
Plaidy’s historical fiction novels seem to be characterised by incredibly dry, unimaginative, dull writing that add nothing to the genre.
I’ve read far worse, for sure, I’ll give Plaidy that – but at least some of those truly terrible books held my attention by being so bad that they were absurdly funny.
Again, nothing against the late author personally, and I have definitely read far worse, but I just find Plaidy’s writing so dull and lifeless, I’m not motivated to ever pick up one of her books again.
Though this book starts at the beginning of Henry's growimgllng annoyance with Katherine not giving birth to a son (and him taking interest in Anne), the story definitely focuses on Katherine's response to everything.
You obviously don't know what these people were thinking in their time, but Jean Plaidy did a good job in illustrating their every thought and making it all seem reasonable and believable.A good book for any Tudor fan, though I must say that the show followed the exact same scenes/situations, so it sort of felt like I was reading the manuscript for the show haha.
An easy read, and an enjoyable way to learn about the history of the time. The author brings the characters alive although sometimes I'd have liked more depth to them, and to the lifestyles of the time. Ends rather abruptly but presumably the story is picked up in the next book in the series. I picked this up from the Lilliput library and it's the only book in the series I've read.
Ms. Plaidy is (was) so good at weaving facts into a strong, cohesive story without embroidering too much.
I do, however, wish she had not used the word "plump" so often in this one.
For the first half of the book, I believe the word appeared on every other page, basically whenever discussing the face or fingers of King Henry or the bosom of one of his mistresses.
Good gosh, had she never heard of "pudgy", "chubby", "full", "ample", etc.?
Besides, when we've been told once about these characters' larger-than-average body parts, it's really enough...
I don't usually read historical fiction unless there's some sort of mystery element to it so this was a bit of a change for me.
I realised that it was 4th in a saga but actually I was able to read it as a standalone book and it still made sense.
It was interesting to read about Henry 8th mostly from a female perspective and even though the ending was obvious it was still an enjoyable read.
The ending is quite sad but of course not unexpected if you know anything about the history of Henry 8th and his wives.
The third book in the tale of Katherine of Aragon.
Stimulated by the refusal of Anne Boleyn to succumb to his advances outside of marriage, he starts wondering whether this lack of healthy offspring is due to God's displeasure with his marriage to his brother's bride.
Unaware of Anne's role, Wolsey encourages plans for annulment or divorce and thus starts the chain of events leading to the disgrace of Wolsey, the deaths of many intellectual leaders of Henry's early reign and the breach with Rome.
Through it all Katherine struggles to maintain her position and her dignity.
A tribute to the noble Katherine of Aragon, who refused to declare her marriage to King Henry VIII invalid. A Queen by every right and with absolute dignity.
No Review
Excellent historical fiction!
Now she feigned to believe it was Anne Boleyn, as once she had believed it was Wolsey.Yet in her heart she knew that he was all-powerful; more so than ever now that he had cut himself off from the Pope.
How could he murder two such men?But she knew.
The King's Secret Matter is the seemingly endless fight that Henry puts up to confirm that he and Katharine were never truly married; he needs to prove the marriage's invalidity so he can marry the lustrous and flirty Anne Boleyn.
Review - This book was particularly interesting because it was quite good to see the juxtaposition of Anne Boleyn and Katherine of Aragon, and the differences in how they interacted with Henry VIII.
It was also interesting for me personally because I've read a lot around the divorce, and it was eye-opening to see how fiction writers see the great matter.
Many people know of the divorce but this is the first book I know of that deals with it as an individual matter, instead of as a larger whole.
But by the end of the book, I was thinking, "Please let Katharine die already so that she and I can both be done with this business." The ending dragged on way too long for my liking.
The book emphasizes Katharine's point of view, so not as much time was spent on Henry's decision to split from the Catholic Church.
I recognize that this isn't a history book, but the schism between England and Rome sent shock waves through Europe at its time, and it gets just a passing mention in this novel.
I'm not a huge fan of Jean Plaidy or of Tudor novels but I found this one I can read till the end without any trouble.
For anyone who've read Philippa Gregory's "The Other Boleyn Girl", in this you're given the chance to took from the opposite site.
I enjoy historical novels, (which country they may be from) and and according to my knowledge,Plaidy has been praised for the historical accuracy in this collection.
This is a well written novel in detail and I felt like I actually took a glimpse into the Tudor court.
The King's Secret Matter is the heartbreaking ending to Queen Katharine's trilogy, and the 4th in the Tudor Saga series.
Queen Katharine fights valiantly to retain her place in politics, and in her family.
She fights not only for herself but for her daughter, and for what she believes to be God's will.
There is so much meat to this story - the battle betweeen Katharine and Anne Boleyn, and their strategies, the King's break with the church, all of the political intrigue, and more.
It is a worthy conclusion to Queen Katharine's story.
I've read a good number of books on Anne Boleyn and yet I never tire of finding a new portrayal of her.
This one was good and I love the writings of Jean Plaidy.
Her portrayal of her as a young girl was of a somewhat meek woman, eager to please her Mistress at the time (Henry Tudor's sister, Mary).
The transformation from this child to the woman we all know to be vibrant, bold and haughty was not well documented.
Otherwise, the story flowed well and the writing, as always with Jean Plaidy, was beautifully done.
Loved it! I'm working my way through jean plaidys tudor saga series and have now read all three of the books in the Katherine of Aragon series I found this one just as good a read as the first two. I feel that Katherine is often a much less thought about wife of Henry VIII but these books for me brought katherine to life and I found her story a brilliant but ultimately sad one I didn't want the final book to end.
I’d only ever read one other novel by Jean Plaidy (The Lady in the Tower) and I loved it, but this one was a little disappointing by comparison, which is a shame, because it follows the story of Queen Katharine of Aragon as King Henry VIII tires of her and tries to divorce her. It just wasn’t as engaging as I’d hoped and I found it a little plodding with lots of repetition, and rather a slog to reach the end. The story is there, I just think it could have been handled better.
This is my favourite book of the Tudor series so far as it goes into so much detail about the divorce of Henry VIII and Katharine of Aragon; the King's changing temperament towards his family, council and lovers; the rise and fall of Cardinal Wolsey; and the rising of Anne Boleyn. It is written so well that, whilst I felt sorry and outraged on for both Katharine and her daughter Mary, I was also rooting for Anne. Completely absorbing.
King's Secret matter describes the evolution of a tyrant . Henry viii in his pursuit for a son and Anne Boleyn. He is determined to rid himself of Catherine of Aragon because he lusts after Anne Boleyn and the only way she will sleep with him is if he marries her.The book is mainly told from Catherine ' s perspective but by the end of the novel he us ready to cast Anne aside in favour of Jane Seymour
I found this less interesting then the previous novels in this series. I was also disappointed that we never hear from Anne other than via other people. This seemed odd considering the major role she played in the events of the novel - it is almost as if Plaidy wants to channel the readers thoughts and sympathy for Katharine and Mary so chooses not to look at why Anne set out the path she did.Not my faviurite historical novel.
I love historical fiction. I really do. But this Jean Plaidy felt flat to me, especially after I read Philippa Gregory's books about the same era. Katherine of Aragon feels very one dimensional, Anne Boleyn doesn't make much of an appearance and even Wolsey feels like a shadow. Not the best read by Jean Plaidy.
This book is about King Henry VIII "plot" to have his marriage to Katherine of Aragon dissolved by the Pope so he could marry Anne Boleyn. The Pope refused, which brought about the King's split with the Roam Catholic Church and the creation of the Church of England. For history buffs like me, this is one of the best!
I enjoy novels looking at Tudor history, and this was another--nothing special but unique in that the story wove together many viewpoints, but didn't dedicate separate chapters to separate narrators.
I love all of Jean Plaidy's books I have read up to this point. I feel she brings historical characters to life and makes you feel as though these could be anyone or that any person could go through the same pitfalls and triumphs as the historical figures featured in each book. Worth reading.
I thought this was a good follow up to the other books in the saga. I did think it needed some more focus on Anne Boleyn but perhaps this will come in the follow up book? I will be reading more from Jean Plaidy. I find her books very easy to read and very enjoyable.
I'm not as fond of Jean Plaidy as I thought I would be. After reading a few of hers, they're starting to drag.
Really really good x poor Katherine x I even felt for Wolsey in the end x King Henry was an arse xx
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/12349991
A great read!
