https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/155253.Administrative_Behavior
I observe that reading this book after Chester Barnard’s “Functions of the Executive” shows how Simon has developed on the ideas presented by the former.
With this definition of rationality in mind, Simon presents a profound insight into integration (this is applicable to societies, organizations, etc.) as an end obtained by deliberate control of the decision making environment, which in this case is the human psychological state.
Efficiency is discussed with relation to decision making and bounded rationality (result-maximization with limited resources), organization identification is explained on psychological bases where an individual substitutes organizational objectives for his own aims.
A lot of insight in terms of understanding behavior inside of administrations, both public and private.
The concept of "bounded rationality" plays a big role in Simon's theoretical framework.
This is a dry book, and Simon is open throughout with the fact that he is merely trying to set up a bare bones framework to enable more serious research into the development of a "science" of administration.
A secondary concept, that of the "satisficing" administrator, is also useful: that as opposed to the "economic man" who is always maximizing or optimally performing, the satisficing administrator merely meets a threshold of satisfying their administrative role with precisely that which will suffice (hence "satisficing") to maintain their position in the administrative hierarchy.
READ MAY 2009Solid foundational description of organizational dynamics relative to decision-making.
Unfortunately, I have the feeling that it's the sort of book that might be nice to have around, so I could look up relevant passages once in a while--unfortunately because it has completely fallen apart and I'm definitely going to have to recycle it.
The book was Simon's PhD dissertation in the '40s, and it represents his attempt to build a formal analytical foundation for the analysis of organizational structure and decision-making.
There are other interesting insights scattered throughout, and I think his characterization of authority and influence as the ability to determine some of the premises that enter another's decision (but not the decision itself, usually) is a very useful analytical framework.
For class again, more interesting than the other one. Makes me think of my dad. Tired of looking at it too.
Still in print, and still relevant, after all these decades.
There are some brilliant ideas in here but omg it's such a slog to get through.
Solid and foundation perspectives in Organisational behaviour. Not so easy to get through but it was worthy the time spent.
An excellent book on the theory of management. Simon is a Nobel Prize winner, so this book is not an easy read. It has to be read slowly & thoughtfully, but it is well worth the effort.
i want to read the most famous book of century.
This is rightly regarded as a classic of organizational psychology because it goes through what most people take for granted, especially because bureaucracies are composed of people.
