https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61328.Pigeon_Feathers_and_Other_Stories
It's no wonder that JU was an art student; his stories remind one of paintings.The collection is at its best when JU writes in an autobiographical mode.
I sense the influence of Proust (one of his favorite writers) in his attempt to regain lost time.
These are some of the best short stories I've ever read.The collection, however, has a few misfires, especially when JU writes in a more "experimental" way.
Stories like "Should Wizard Hit Mommy?," "Archangel," and "Lifeguard" are so overwrought and overcooked that they read like creative writing exercises and failed attempts to be "avant-garde."
In fact, the narrator is a nineteen-year-old cashier in a small New England grocery store.
Three girls some into the grocery store for a single item, “fancy herring,” which suggests to the narrator a higher class of society than his own.
Outside he knows that he has made a decision that somehow may make the world harder for him hereafter, his having marked out his own path, independent of his parents and an older generation.The delight of this story is Updike’s having captured a situation and its characters so perfectly, having been able to step inside people unlike himself and know and communicate what they think, feel, and how they respond to life.
I was new to the US at that time, and Updike opened up a totally unfamiliar world - rural Pennsylvania.
I had tended to think of the US, rather fearfully, in terms of its big cities but Updike, with his eye for detail and uncanny use of language, calmed my fears and showed me a world of ordinary, but complex and interesting people, wrestling with the same demons that we humans, everywhere, wrestle with: growing up; seeking love; aging & death; coping with life's disappointments and revelling in its joys.
It's probably my all-time favorite.
It's Updike, the stories are going to be good. They don't speak to me, because I think the voice of Updike is White upper/upper-middle class New England, but I can't fault the writing which is always flawless.
After the event ended, I asked him, again, why he had given me the book, to which he replied he wanted me to read it.
A few days later, we were spending time together and the conversation arrived at the topic of Updike’s book.
It took me about a fortnight to read the collection — although I do confess that to me the time I spent reading Updike’s stories seems to have gone on for longer than just two weeks.
You know why I think it took me so long to read the book?
I still think Updike is pretentious and sexist.
These stories are, for the most part, thoughtful, well-written, and convey a precise impression of character, place and a certain (now somewhat dated) segment of American society.
With the exception of the stories that focused more on the narrator's family and coming of age, such as the title story ,"Pigeon Feathers," I really did not care for how Updike presents women.
Even the female children are often described as having "fat faces." After a while, I couldn't pass the buck to the male characters anymore, and started to think it was just Updike.
Filled with exaggerated descriptions.So often the overdone descriptions got in the way of the actual plot and characters.
There were several spots where I didn't understand what was actually going on beneath all the words strung together.
The last two short stories in this collection consisted of what seemed to be random subjects strung together for no apparent reason.It was a bit disappointing, considering the cover claims Updike is "the most talented writer of his age," and that it had been recommended to me personally.
I'm not a huge fan of short story collections, so perhaps that also has something to do with it?
Loved the story 'Packed Dirt, Churchgoing, A Dying Cat, A traded Car'.
Fed up with reading the book, I was about to return it unread.
Fatefully, a dull evening forced me to reopen the book & I ended up reading this one.
The protagonist of this story, is never ashamed to be the part of a group.
He is very unlike those, who love to show off their unconventional ways; who, in their frenzy of establishing themselves as 'unique' people, forget to enjoy the simplicity of life.
It's said about writing that "novels pay the bills." I'm so glad that Updike could afford to write short fiction because he was simply a master at it.
Many of his short stories found their way into "Best of" collections and college texts because they deserve it.
For instance, the lead story in this collection focuses on a young boy who has one of those maturation moments when he realizes that life is more profound and precious than he ever imagined.
Also, there's a very nice PBS "The American Short Story Collection" video production of the lead story if you can find it.
The one book I keep going back to. I believe it is my all time favorite, and will be for years to come. A beautiful collection of short stories--which is also why I think it will always be my favorite since there are stories for different periods of life. It's similar to my fondness for Bob Dylan's Blood on the Tracks. A must read.Review written on Nov 11, 2013
This short collection of stories displays a realistic view of small town life that, presumably, Updike himself experienced. The title story, Pigeon Feathers, is especially moving in its portrayal of a young boy's crisis of faith. The experience of the reality of death has more import than the questions and answers obtained in the local sunday school.
Not Updike's best collection but glad A&P was included, one of my favorites.

I think much of his brilliance was lost on me. When he veered poetic, I had some trouble following. I seemed to like the later stories better I think. Or I acquired a rhythm for his writing. Some of the short stories though just didn’t do anything for me. I liked the last the best. Makes me curious to try a novel of his sometime. He has a way of invoking humanity, and spirituality, and a beauty in the ordinary.
A lovely collection of stories, that feels like a writer trying to bring together dissonant, scattered fragments of himself, to try and make himself whole again. Each piece is somewhat autobiographical and metaphysical, as if the vantage point of these stories are the very cells of the writer. This is elegant, perceptive writing that begs repeat reading, often right after the story is finished, so one can nestle further into Updike's deep, richly metaphoric prose.
Some if the most tedious and uninspired writing I've encountered outside of public schools. Just really bad. I read about a third, randomly, and honestly I'd rather shove pencils in my eyes than have to read the entire collection.
I don't know what it is about John Updike, but I can't get into him. I've started a number of his books over the years and I don't think I finished any of them. His writing annoys me for some reason. I know he is well regarded and has sold zillions of books but for me, meh.
Read for English Lit and Language AP senior year of high school
A few decent pieces. Overall, I just wasn't feeling this. It was a struggle to keep reading.
I was reading this on a plane and someone asked me, are you from New England?
I do not know whether versions of this idea pre-date this type of story but I do know that it has proliferated since, most notably in blogging.At one point he notes "In the U.S.the great writers produce works which people do not enjoy, because they are so depressing to read." This book is, on the surface, depressing in many tales but the virtuoso telling and craft elevate it.
Even in the depths of ennui (it doesn't really mine misery) you have thoughts like, "Wow, that was a great way to put that." The eponymous, existential tract is one of the best stories, along with the two rambling closers.
He got Calvino and I got Updike--introductions, both.
This dull ache--what I did, why I did it, what I should have done, and what now?--is expressed wordlessly by figures who live their memory in the present in a way that is literally (but not literarily) impossible.
Thank God. But the sigh evoked by this kind of sans-sentiment recollection does not sting any less being contained in short stories: it is in fact the selfsame sigh of the present-beyond-the-pages, when we feel that niggling, wordless sense of unease that Updike manages to make intelligible.
I decided to read this anthology because I recently heard the sportswriter Frank Fitzpatrick speak about his passion for Updike, and it spurred me to pick up "Pigeon Feathers." The last Updike I read was the first book of his seminal "Rabbit" series, which has frequently been scorned because of its misogynistic content.
"Pigeon Feathers" focuses on Updike's childhood in rural Pennsylvania (Updike himself grew up in the Scranton area).
The images in his stories are so lyrical and somewhat ethereal that it's impossible not to be impressed with Updike's mastery of languages and sentence structure.
Upike's stories are especially poignant to a Pennsylvania native, whose land, childhood and eventual disillusionment are so heart-wrenchingly documented in this collection.
boy with stutter suffers from unrequited love.
man with dilated eyes attempts to seduce a woman in an optometrist's office.
earnest but frightened boy learns something about death when he is forced to shoot pigeons who have roosted in the family barn.
a son learns to respect his father after an altercation with a bad driver.
updike seems to have discovered an entire quarry of human emotion in which he set to work leaving no stone unturned.
the warmth, wisdom and possibility in the stories makes me think of my grandfather, which isn't surprising, as Updike is himself a baby boomer.
There are some great stories in this collection.
The best stories, however, in this collection, are those that focus on adolescence.
"Still Life" describes a college student's attempts to get the attention of a girl.
"A Sense of Shelter" focuses on a high school geek's profession of love to the popular girl.
Updike beautifully captures the awkwardness and confusion of youth in often beautiful, lyrical language.These stories also offer a myriad of images of middle-America, usually rural Pennsylvania, in the first half of the 20th century.
Nevertheless it is a good collection and a vivid snapshot of American life.Good read
This is the first and only thing I've read by John Updike, and in all honesty, I would not have been able to tell you any fact about him before I read the little wee author blurb at the back of the book.
So, anyway, Chris got this from the library, and I was restless and couldn't settle into my other two books, so I picked his up to see if I liked his writing style.
After I read the first story, I said to Chris, "Wow, he's really good at writing short stories!" And Chris laughed at me and said that's like someone being pleasantly surprised that Michael Jordan was a good at playing basketball.
But yay Updike!
FIRST LINE REVIEW: "Coming back from Boston, Jack drove, his baby son slept in a Carry-Cot on the front seat beside him, and in the back seat Claire sang to their girl, Jo, age two." Updike is home.
Comfortable at times, filled with memory-inducing images, often uncomfortably probing our humanity.
I like him and I don't.
And mostly I'm just plain envious that he said it all before I could.
Instead, I'll just be content to let him take me along on his rides through ages of youth and adulthood...discovering what was there all along.
The little slivers of our shared humanity.
As a rule of thumb, probably because it is the book of short stories that has impressed me the most, I compare all others to Nine Stories by J.D. Sallinger.
I believe the writing is better in Pigeon Feathers, as Updike proves that he has a knack for creating a scene in a very short piece.
However, Nine Stories does flow a little better than Pigeon Feathers.
That being said, I am glad that I read this book.
I don't want to go into detail of the content, because there is nothing that can be said other than READ THIS.
The three star rating should not be construed as a criticism of Updike's writing.
I don't like short stories.
Just as I begin to identify with one story line and its characters, I am whooshed off to another leaving me with a detached feeling.
Also, Updike's stories lay heavy with melancholy and loss--A love he can't have, a soulless car ride, a faith that may be lost, a death that smells uncomfortably close.
My final problem was the sense of not getting the ending line.
Maybe I needed to read this with a book club.
The writing was brilliant.
Updike's second collection of stories, from 1962.
Several of the stories in this book have the same characters: Jack, Clare, and their children; David Kern, Joanne, and their families.
(No characters appear in other stories than their own, though, so it isn't really a novel in stories.) The David Kern stories have a strong religious theme, doubt and angst which I found hard to relate to.
Again, the characters are very true to life for the fifties; they even read the same books I did then (although Updike, and hence the main characters, are about twenty years older than I was at the corresponding dates.)
