https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53625.Four_Blind_Mice
This is now my new favorite Alex Cross novel!
I thoroughly enjoyed everything about it.
Everything just worked in this one.
It was not as predictable as some and there was suspense and romance!
I am reading these Alex Cross books in order so we will see if it stays my favorite.
I loved the different sides of the military and government we see in this one.
It added a lot to the storyline but some of it was really unsettling but you can’t be naïve to think this could not happen in real life, which is why it is unsettling.
Very entertaining book!
I'm not a big fan of detective novels but I read this book during the time when this was the only available novel at home, a time when ebooks have not been invented yet. The story was interesting enough to make me finish it.
When the novel slowed, it was during the threads of Nana Mama's, Cross's grandmother, health issues, or when Sampson, Cross's best friend, begins dating the widow of one of the murder victims; or when Cross begins his dating of a San Francisco detective.
(James this part is for you: STOP WRITING SEX SCENES...I have seen more passion between acorns and soil than what you "showed"!!) So the problems with the novel are numerous, but, as I said, Patterson can tell a story.
I cared about Cross and Sampson and about the murder victims, which there are plenty.Overall, I would say that there is no need to rush out and find this book.
#8 in the Alex Cross series.James Patterson is one the best selling thriller writers ever.
The later part of the book, once the reason behind all the killing is revealed, really picks up and becomes quite page turning.It’s not James Patterson’s ability to tell a story it’s more his writing style that I have a problem with.So, it’s not a bad read but it could have been so much better.If you have enjoyed the other Alex Cross novels you will enjoy this one
I need something that will keep me awake (although I'm glad this one didn't have gunshot sound effects, as that sent my dog into a tizzy last time) but that I don't need to pay close attention to.
I mean, no matter what, Alex Cross is going to swear this is his last case (it won't be), he is going to fall madly in love with someone, he is going to wax poetic about how much he loves his children while continuing to neglect them, his grandmother will suffer some life-threatening illness (but of course pull through), and, obviously, he will chase a brilliant and horrible killer and come close to dying himself at least twice.
I know I should stop listening to them.
Could be my favorite Alex Cross novel yet.
The book moved along at a good place and was very complicated in terms of the actual murders and who was behind them.
Cross is ready to retire, but Sampson recruits him to check out a murder in which his friend, Sergeant Ellis Cooper is accused.
Things also start to heat up with Cross and Jamilla Hughes as well.I definitely thought the book was well done and well paced.
I always enjoy seeing the killers and the things that they are doing while Cross is looking for them.
Uncovering evidence of a series of suspicious murder convictions, Alex and Sampson are determined to infiltrate the closed world of the military.
And do the mysterious symbols daubed on the house of the accused mean that there are more sinister forces at work?John Sampson and Alex Cross have always been close (since they were 10 years old), when Sampson asks Alex for help investigating a case that led his friend to death row, Alex agrees.
We follow the investigation into Sampson's old friend Sergeant Ellis Cooper, accused and convicted of the murder of three woman and now for death row.
The guy is prolific and popular, and his other books have been pretty good.My biggest complaint is that around page 300, I discovered that Cross, the main character, is African American, not white like I'd assumed.
And it was a fair assumption: Patterson is on the back cover of the book, and he sure looks like a white guy to me.
Seems like something an author would want to mention just a little earlier, perhaps.Cross should have been a familiar character, but I read a LOT of books.
Yeah, he might quit the force but I have a feeling that he's going to accept another job offer.
yeah I probably still wouldn't think that Alex would actually never work ever again.Now this book does have some good twists and turns.
Well, I'm not on board with that happening at all because it's getting really annoying with Alex and his "relationships" - I just want to read about his job and him finding the murderers.
but that hasn't happened yet.I can't wait to read the next book!

Ο Άλεξ Κρος, λίγο πριν πάρει την οριστική του απόφαση να παραιτηθεί από την Αστυνομία της Ουάσιγκτον, αποφασίζει να βοηθήσει τον παιδικό του φίλο και συνεργάτη Τζον Σάμπσον σε μια υπόθεση που εμπλέκει τον στρατό των Ηνωμένων Πολιτειών και έχει ως αφετηρία της τα γεγονότα στην κοιλάδα Αν Λάο του Βιετνάμ κατά τη διάρκεια του πολέμου.
Αυτό το μυστήριο που περιβάλλει την ιστορία δίνει την αφορμή στον Άλεξ Κρος να συναναστραφεί τον Κάιλ Γκρεγκ, μια σατανική ιδιοφυία και πρώην πράκτορα του FBI, του οποίου ο ρόλος αποκαλύφθηκε στο προηγούμενο βιβλίο της σειράς, «Οι δολοφόνοι της νύχτας», προκειμένου να διαπιστωθεί αν είναι αυτός πίσω από τους φόνους.
When Alex decides to retire from being a homocide detective, but an interference with a childhood friend of his, John Sampson, comes along with a case Cross knows he can not refuse.
Sampson explains to Alex that his friend from war is introuble, he is being charged with murder and John is highly convenced that he didn't commit it.
Alex and Sampson both go to talk to other people whos family member had been framed.
Alex and John still don't know who is commiting the murders and framing these seemingly inoccent men, or why.
This is the 8th book with Alex Cross, but the first I read involving that character. Will have to read the others.Alex and his good friend John Sampson look into the murder conviction of a man John served with in Vietnam. While looking into the case they find discrepancies and cover-ups in the military records. Other similar cases are found as they seek the truth behind several military personnel, with previously clean records, being convicted of heinous crimes and sentenced to the death penalty.Several twists and turns, interesting look into friendship and loyalty, as well as misguided ambitions. Interesting read.
I have read and enjoyed James Patterson in the past, but can honestly say that this will be the last Patterson book I will read. I was truly disappointed in the lack of storytelling and writing ability. The book had no depth, and the story suffered for it. As I read the book I got the impression that Mr. Patterson was simply trying to crank out a book as quickly as possible, and could not be bothered with such things as descriptive detail or creative plotting. I did not find the characters or their behavior to be believable.
I liked this one a whole lot better than the previous one in the series. This is supposed to be the "last" case Alex is planning on doing, a request from his friend John Sampson to help out an old friend of his. The story is fast paced, straight to the point and of course brutal murders, in true "Patterson style". I also really like the Crosss family part thats included throughout the series.
I liked this one a whole lot better than the previous one in the series. This is supposed to be the "last" case Alex is planning on doing, a request from his friend John Sampson to help out an old friend of his. The story is fast paced, straight to the point and of course brutal murders, in true "Patterson style". I also really like the Cross´s family part that´s included throughout the series.
I really liked this book. It's about Alex Cross and his hunt for the Three Blind Mice. This group is made up of three war veterans turned hitmen. Alex Cross is put on the case to stop the rampaging hitmen. This story is full of action and suspense. I loved how James Patterson developed the characters throughout the book and made you really root for Cross and really despise the bad guys, and these bad guys are no joke the worst.Just an overall great book and I'd highly recommend it.
4 war vets cover their crimes by intricately pinning them on fellow soldiers.
I’ve read all of the Alex Cross series leading up to this one and enjoyed most of them even if they weren’t exactly well written.
Other family issues and Cross’s heavy-handed introspection made many parts of the novel feel like trying to sprint through molasses.
Still, these books do have a certain page-turning quality and so I suppose I will read more in this series eventually.
I would like to see how things pan out when Cross works for the FBI.
But I will wait until I need another ‘fast food” convenient read rather than enjoying a “steak and lobster” novel.
I read quite a few chapters but got to a point where I could not continue with this book - abandoned!
The previous novel, Violets are Blue, was one of the worst things I ever read, and this was better, but that isn't saying much.Dont read this review if you dont want all the 'plot points' ruined.Here are some reasons why this book isnt worth your time.The plot is massively complex, apparently a former Vietnamese soldier (Luu), came to the US after the war and started a gang.
Anyway, that guy Luu somehow constructs an elaborate ploy where he pays millions of dollars to three formet army ranger assassins to frame former army war criminals for murder so that they will be executed on death row.Makes perfect sense.
Four Blind Mice by James Patterson is a book that will make you beyond angry, but it’s a great story and will keep you hooked until you read the last word.
This crime fiction novel is about the setup of several men in the US Army by 3 paid killers.
The plot is unique and makes the reader very angry because the real murderers are out there and somehow haven’t been caught and the army is worthless to seeing things do not add up.
I haven’t read any other books by James Patterson but definitely will because of how good this one is.
The only breaks in the case come from Cross browsing through old army files and conducting searches on Lexus-Nexus.
The evidence he compiles is all pretty circumstantial, but that doesn't stop Dr. Cross from moving ahead full-bore.
Most of the novel's suspense comes about as the result of the main characters' stupidity.
Cross and Sampson get into a drunken fistfight, but their friendship is completely back to normal the very next day.There's a whole lot more wrong with this book, but I refuse to put more effort into analyzing it than Patterson himself did into writing it.
There's not much new with this installment of the Alex Cross series. Cross is drawn into a case involving some Vietnam-era Rangers who've been setting up other Army soldiers in brutal murder cases. Alex is also trying to decide whether to continue as a detective or do something else. Patterson gives the reader his usual staccato chapters and twists. Recommended if you're looking for a quick, relatively mindless story.
For being a first time James Patterson reader, I am now hooked!!!! This was an awesome book and I was hooked and caught in from page 1. I would recommend this book to everyone!! I do have to start from the first Alex Cross book to get the idea of what has been going on with this character and once I do that all will be good lol. Definite read!!!!!
4.5 stars. Great way to finish up my reading goal for the year! Love these books and seem to forget all about how exciting they are until I finally read another.
4 stars. Very enjoyable... I liked the military aspect in this one.
I <3 me some Alex Cross :D
Three young military wives have been brutally killed during a 'girls' night out' and Sampson's friend, a master sergeant at the army base, stands accused.Uncovering evidence of a series of suspicious murder convictions, Alex and Sampson are determined to infiltrate the closed world of the military.
And do the mysterious symbols daubed on the house of the accused mean that there are more sinister forces at work?My ReviewJohn Sampson and Alex Cross have always been close, when Sampson asks Alex for help investigating a case that led his friend to death row, Alex agrees.
We follow the investigation into Sampson's old friend Sergeant Ellis Cooper, accused and convicted of the murder of three woman and now for death row.
This is not the kind of book that's meant to be read in installments that take more than the average commercial break between sitcoms.The chapter headings take up half a page, which isn't all that odd until you get a bit into the thing realize Patterson's "chapters" are very, very short.
I'm guessing this thing is probably about 70-75,000 words.The cover price on the (borrowed) edition I read was $27.95.
(Also Wikipedia.)Oh, c'mon!Wait, he also set up ReadKiddoRead a website dedicated to getting good books to kids and that only has his name on it five times on the front page....And he's set up scholarships and stuff.
Alex and Sampson ( sigh… I love him) are trying to help a buddy of there’s Eric who has recently been convicted of murder.
Sampson doesn’t believe that Eric could do what he was charged with and they find some leads.
Eventually it leads them to the prison that Kyle is being held, I didn’t think it was him just not his style.
Of course Alex almost dies in the end but he does pull through.
Because as it stands right now they going to all be grown before you see them.Also… Alex goes through women like underwear, Jamilla didn’t make it… sheesh.
