https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92504.Solar_Lottery
his ideas are front and center: the human struggle to be an individual rather than a cog in the machine and the equally human desire to just have a relaxed, pleasant life; mega-structures like governments and corporations that hold complete dominion but still function like slot machines or a roulette wheel or a bad yet very funny dream; a world of predetermined lives where everyone, high and low, is still prey to luck and randomization - it is the person who can figure out a system deciphering that randomness who often wins.my favorite part of the book was an outstanding sequence in which an android assassin attempts to carry out a hit - a blank slate of an assassin whose decisions are made by a multitude of minds jumping in and out of its body, changing directions and plans abruptly with each new mind, confounding its telepathic pursuers with every new and surprising decision.
Whatever it was these young musicians were selling, I was buying into it and I felt more alive and potent while I listened to and became a part of the song.
The later music was good, the members of the band are talented artists and the product is well crafted, but the buying and selling seem more adept and the product is too fashionably marketed.
Just like the early U2 songs, this very early PKD offering, published when he was just 27, is alive and vibrant and edgy with an abstract sci-fi signature that was only just developing.
The society that Dick depicts in the main plot is based on the mathematical theory of Minimax.
If Dick had focused on this, I think Solar Lottery would be a better story, but instead he focuses on the feudal relationship between serfs and their protectors.
Politicians and ordinary citizens alike are facing a choice: whether to be loyal to an ideal or a person.
But what happens when the leader is not loyal to the ideal?
Unlike the Prestonites in Dick’s novel, we can’t blast off to a mysterious tenth planet and start over, so we have to make a collective choice.
Dick, Solar LotteryI figured Super Tuesday was an appropriate time to read PKD's first novel about lottery elections, random assassins, autocratic leaders, corruption, serfs, mad women, social control, telepathic security, idealism, cults, and the search for our galaxy's 10th planet.It is hard to believe this was Dick's first novel.
In Dick's Zero-sum future, the random probability of a stupid leader is offset and minimized by the election of an average (or better than average) assassin.
Thus, dumb leaders die quickly, good leaders last longer.The climax of this novel involves both the epitome of game theory and the inevitable corruption.
The book takes place in one of the author's typically wacky future settings, the Earth of 2203; the type of scenario that has come to be known as "phildickian." In this world of several centuries hence, the planetary leader is not elected, but rather chosen at random by the magnetic twitch of some kind of subatomic bottle gizmo.
The action jumps from the world capital of Batavia (given that Indonesia is one of the world's most densely populated countries, it is no wonder that Dick chose it as his seat of Earth government), to Cartwright's base in London, to Verrick's holdings in Berlin, and on to a pleasure resort on the lunar surface, where Keith Pellig, a synthetic man remotely controlled by 24 alternating human minds, attempts to do away with the new world leader.
Solar Lottery is his first published novel and is quite good for a debut.
His descriptions create good visual images, and of course, I couldn't help seeing some of the film images from Blade Runner.
PKD creates an interesting frisson of sexual tension in his descriptions of the women although he does mention Eleanor's shiny hair and sparkly bare breasts a few times more than is necessary, but I guess back in the 1950's, that would have helped book sales.Overall, a good read and a good introduction to his work.
Based on this novel, I'm motivated to read more of his oeuvre.
read this book again for the first time in fifteen years...
it's obviously been carefully laid-out and makes perfect sense; there's not that manic semi-psychedelic flight forward that you get in his later stuff (which i love)...
much more optimistic than his later stuff.
at the same time, it somehow doesn't feel quite as human; the main character is at best a grump and there's more of a schematic feel to the other characters as well...
definitely A Science Fiction book...
still, though, a hell of a read, and as always, his imagination puts everyone else's to shame.
Dick’s novel Solar Lottery; which was his first published novel and the beginning of a career that changed his life and thousands more - decades and decades later...
How do you know what is wrong though, especially when the six billion other people are obeying the laws and being good little serfs?
Could a law possibly be wrong when more than 99% or the people are following it?
It brings up several thought provoking questions about are own government and our own laws… and who I am as a person or who we are as people (collectively) and what would we do when our own moral compass was tested.
Were it not for the futuristic setting, this could so easily have seen Dick writing riveting novels of social horrors - if only he hadn’t sided with Donald A.
Philip K Dick could have been one of the greats - a true mass-market writer of contemporary literature showing horrors that none of us thought possible.
Unfortunately, this wonderfully gifted writer ended up in the sci-fi ghetto ready to be forgotten, were it not for Hollywood.I don’t remember Solar Lottery being this action packed, this heart thumping alive or this trippy when I first read it nearly 10 years ago.
What he doesn't know is that he is joining the team of a man who has just been replaced, after ten years, by a twitch of the bottle that has transferred the role to Leon Cartwritght, an unclassified leader of a the Prestonites, a scraggly religious cult based on the teachings of one John Preston, who disappeared over a century before into the world beyond the nine planet system in search of the flaming disk.But wait, I am falling into the thankless task of attempting to summarize a Philip K.
For the sake of full disclosure: I am a huge Philip K. Dick fan. I think Valis is one of the great novels of the 21st century. I think Dick's short stories are imaginative and well suited to his almost fractured writing style.Unfortunately, Solar Lottery just failed to deliver. It came so close that as I reached the last page I wondered if two chapters had been ripped out of the edition I was reading. No such luck.
As a work of political sci-fi it is amazingly forward thinking, I can't imagine that many of of the readers in 1955 who bought the Ace double for the latest Leigh Brackett novel fully got the levels of message that PKD was laying down.The novel takes place in the year 2203, and human society has slowly started to spread to the stars.
Once he starts the job the computer suddenly decides to start a new quiz and everyonbe is shocked when a man named Leon Cartwright is chosen to take over.This is where the Dick streak for the the paranoia shows up.
Somehow I had gotten the impression that he was insane in some way or at least egregiously weird.
Solar Lottery is his first.I did not get any impression of insanity or weirdness at all.
In fact, I thought I got a glimpse of a theme that I found while reading The Hunger Games.The ruler of the Universe in 2203 is chosen by random.
Now that is a rather 1950s concept but it is also one of the major themes of literature all through the ages.Hm. Maybe he got weird later?
I added all 44 novels to My Big Fat Reading Project list.
He's cajoled into swearing allegiance to Verrick, and is then whisked off to their new headquarters where they're preparing the ultimate assassin.At the same time, members of the Preston Society have boarded a rocket and are headed into outer space in search of the Flame Disc, a plot line which plays a far greater role toward the end of the book.In this book, Dick's target for criticism isn't the usual black man, but females.
Another key to the society is the oaths which one gives and receives to and from people, and to organizations.There are two significant storylines, the first is centered on Ted Benteley, a man released from his job due to some unexplained fires decides to get a position working directly for the Directorate and the Quizmaster, Reece Verrick.
What he doesn’t realize is that Reece has lost his position and that a new Quizmaster, Leon Cartwright, has been selected.
There are the Telepathic Corps who guard the Quizmaster, and the development of the special assassin to deal with Leon Cartwright.

While a far cry from five star, memorable, classic material, Solar Lottery very recognizably shows the mark of what made Dick such a unique writer.
Surprising to me was that Solar Lottery is somewhat more complex in its mechanics than many of his novels that followed...
Regardless, it's a fairly unpredictable read, which I always find admirable.
it's still fairly basic genre-writing and shows that Dick had a long ways to go to truly establish his own unique style.
But, it's still a very serviceable novel, and I enjoyed it - though it certainly would not be the first (or even in the top ten) of his works I'd recommend.
This was a extremely compelling read from the master. I loved this book as I do most of his books. It tells of a future world in which everything is run by chance, specifically the government. Todd Benteley has become frustrated with the system and seeks ways to change it. AS his loyalties shift from one quizmaster to another he learns how the system has been rigged. It's an exciting book and I liked how the plot twists kept me reading.
solid early PKD novel. Perhaps more polished than some of his other early novels and while it presents a unique system of government and society, perhaps not as innovative as some of his other works and thus not as enjoyable.. but definitely good overall.
from before Dick was Dickian.In spite of not featuring his main tropes (the "where's my reality" bit, the paranoia themes, the frustrated main character), and consisting of an almost annoying dialogue-only style, with the "I" character switching sometimes between three characters in the same scene, this novel is surprisingly good.You've got your complicated social schema (a background motif in most of his works anyway), you've got your "supreme leader", you've got your androids (again, not a central theme, but they are there in his later works), and, as is the case with most 50's sci-fi, you've got your telepaths.
134 had the top margin aligned with the following page's chapter heading139 than should be then157 nodde should be nodded163 stray period in the middle of a sentence at the edge of the pageNice descriptions: an ugly water pitcherI liked the bit about ads being the apex of modern art.
Especially relevant nowadays with the best minds in the tech industry being employed in making ads even betterPredicted Benteley's ascensionSort of silly how they're smoking on a space ship.
Or that some killer robot is already equipped with interplanetary travel capabilities which a couple pages before were described as experimental on an actual spacecraft.
It's been a while since I've read a PKD novel so when I saw this and Eye in the Sky going cheaply in a second hand store I snapped them up.
I certainly enjoyed it more than some other, more widely regarded novels he produced.By the way, it's worth pointing out that his treatment of the female characters in the story leave a lot to be desired and if this is the kind of thing that annoys you, you probably want to steer clear.
Solar Lottery is Dick’s first true sci-fi novel, (The Cosmic Puppets was more of a fantasy, and also not published as a book at this time), and his third novel over all. It was also the first novel of his ever published, so we have it to thank for jump-starting Dick’s career as a novelist. Dick himself stated that if Solar Lottery had not been published, he would have given up full-length novels.  I didn’t think Solar Lottery was a bad book, but it’s not my favorite Dick work at this point. The
Solar Lottery is Dick’s first true sci-fi novel, (The Cosmic Puppets was more of a fantasy, and also not published as a book at this time), and his third novel over all.
Dick himself stated that if Solar Lottery had not been published, he would have given up full-length novels.
I didn’t think Solar Lottery was a bad book, but it’s not my favorite Dick work at this point.
It seems like Dick had a lot of ideas for this book but for whatever reason wasn’t able to flesh them out as thoroughly as he should have.
Com base nos jogos de azar, o Minimax promove uma lotaria que abrange todo o sistema solar; lotaria esta que tem como objectivo dar oportunidade a qualquer pessoa de se tornar o Interrogador-Chefe – o estatuto mais alto da sociedade com poderes legislativos.
Mas para dificultar essa missão, o Interrogador-Chefe tem do seu lado um grupo de telepáticos, ou seja, com o poder de ler a mente de qualquer pessoa numa determinada distância.
A certeza é uma miragem, e neste sistema está em jogo a sorte ou o azar.
I visited several bookstores (in multiple states) before finally giving up and checking this out at the library,This is very recognizably a Dick novel, most notably for the giant, all-encompassing system of governance designed to outsmart human failings (most specifically, our grasping for power), but which, in reality, mostly inspires cheating and superstition and does absolutely nothing for the vast majority of humanity.
What is human?" than the normal Dickian novel.The female characters are pretty standard 1950s sci-fi fare, but what can you do?Some praise this book for being less prone to the deluded paranoia of Dick's later years, but personally, I have always liked that about him.
After reading this book for the second time, I downgraded it to 4 stars, which is still pretty good!Solar Lottery, the first novel by Philip K.Dick to be published, features some of his recurrent scenarios and themes: a future where mankind has colonised other worlds (although here the Earth is still habitable, unlike in some of his later novels), the existence of individuals with telepathic abilities, a totalitarian government that rules over the entire civilization and trends like multiple color clothing and female semi-nakedness.
The "Prestonites" line seemed underdeveloped, like a side story attached to the main one just to make it longer.
This is another good read by Philip Dick.
Here he explores power, socio-political systems, game theory, and the need for individual autonomy, control, and responsibility.
The author is at his best when throwing ideas against the wall through dialog.
I find Dick's writing to put me in mind of a noir sensibility, and his heroes often carry themselves with the sangfroid of a gumshoe detective in a dime novel.
However, his imaginative approach to creating the environments and situations his characters inhabit enables him to explore the inner self, the human condition, and the limits of reality in a very entertaining manner.
For an early book (1953) this novel contains almost all the elements one expects to find in his later novels: an uncertain everyman suddenly exalted, a young and manipulative female, a large overbearing coldly calculating boss.
One complaint: for an everyman I couldn't get over the waspy name of the protagonist...
I think PKD chose better names in his later works.
But it's all forgiven since PKD shows his characteristic brilliance in taking an idea, namely a feudal society operating a capitalist consumerist economy and fleshing out just enough details to allow his plot to move forward without too much distraction.

Dick is a fantastic writer of dystopian sci-fi, and I never find myself disappointed with his stories.
That said, I found this one to actually be more exciting than his others, most likely due to the assassination plot coming to fruition in the middle of the story.
The world that Dick paints on the lead up to that is one that feels unnervingly possible, and by the end it becomes easy to believe such a society could exist without too much more of a push.I think any fan of Philip K.
Dick (or sci-fi in general) will really like this story, and I highly recommend it to fans of either.
