https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57788.The_Wandering_Jews
His is an economy of prayer lying under a layer of material poverty.Isolated by law for centuries from the Christian inhabitants of these Christian countries, the Jews of Eastern Europe were also isolated by culture from the assimilated Jews of Germany and Western Europe.
They wanted to escape to anywhere, as long as it was West.But culture and oppression are linked in a sort of ecological dependence.
Religious indifference is a new sort of oppression which the emigrant Jew doesn't know how to deal with.
Beautifully written, thoughtful consideration of the place of the Jews in Europe, including an insightful understanding that the Jew remained an outsider in Germany after the time many Jews had become largely secularized and felt themselves to be Germans first and foremost. The 1930s were soon to show them an alternate and searing reality.
And indeed, world of Jewish dockworkers, poor tailors and devout Eastern European Hasidic villages is so far gone now that it seems hard to even imagine just a few decades later.Roth is harsh towards what he sees as an arrogant Western civilization that abominates the Eastern European Jews and holds them in contempt.
Grotendeels gebaseerd op teksten uit 1927 die tijdens Roths leven nooit uitkwamen in boekvorm (dit zou pas gebeuren begin jaren 70 met de uitgave van het verzameld werk), is dit een ode aan de verdreven joden uit zijn geboortestreek Galicië, nu deels Polen en Oekraïne.
Ook het leven van de joden in Berlijn, Parijs, Wenen en de Verenigde Staten komen aan bod, en in een 10 jaar later toegevoegd hoofdstuk de situatie van de joden in nazi-Duitsland.
Een vlijmscherpe analyse van de Oost-Europese joodse cultuur, de emigratie en het antisemitisme, doorspekt met Roths typerende ironie en opzwepende maar heldere argumentatiedrift.
This book goes well with "When Nietzsche Wept". I read this a few years ago, and it also gives a good idea of what late-19th-century/early-20th century life was like in Vienna. While "When Nietzsche Wept" is based on upper-middle-class life, "The Wandering Jews" includes good descriptions of what life was like for the poor and struggling.
Si se quiere comprender la Shoa, es un must. Si se quiere comprender de dónde venimos lo judíos laicos es un must. Si se quiere, si realmente se desea leer un buen ensayo, debes comprar este título. Lo acaban de reeditar en Acantilado.
"Terwijl overal elders pas nu de boeren moeizaam leren lezen en schrijven, is de jood achter zijn ploeg aan het nadenken over de problemen van de relativiteitstheorie."
The thing about my son is that according to Talmudic law he’s not Jewish, having only a Jewish father, not a Jewish mother.
But according to Talmudic law I’m not a Jew, having been surgically circumcised in the hospital and not with a ceremonial bris, even if both my parents are Jews.
I had the good fortune to have been reading THE WANDERING JEWS by Joseph Roth at the time and suggested it to him, being a history of the Eastern Jews from which our family has descended.
Al op de eerste bladzijde is dit boek over Joden en Joodse vluchtelingen in het Europa van de jaren dertig een ware slag in het gezicht.
Vervang het woord Joden hier door Soedanezen, Syriers, Afghanen, Zigeuners of Albanezen en het boek zou niet actueler kunnen zijn.
Met hoofdstukjes over 'het gevecht om (tegen) papieren', over de verschillende status van verschillende soorten vluchtelingen, de (on)mogelijkheid om werk te vinden of men nu ingenieur of arbeider is en ga zo maar door; het is meteen duidelijk dat er voor de vluchteling niet zo'n groot verschil is tussen onze tijd en de jaren dertig.
O meu texto sobre "Judeus Errantes", de Joseph Roth, para P3/Público.Editora: Sistema Solar.http://p3.publico.pt/cultura/livros/7...
While the other peasants around him are finally struggling to read and write, the Jew, behind his plow has his mind on the problems of relativity theory.
Primitive gear demands a primitive mind." (111)"[E]veryone should take notice as one people is freed from the stain of suffering and another from the stain of cruelty.
Joseph Roth's "Juden auf Wanderschaft" is een reeks essays over hoofdzakelijk het leven van de "Ostjuden". Door verschillende aspecten van deze groep te bespreken werpt hij licht op het Europees antisemitisme, nationalisme en het "onjoodse" zionisme. Het boek lijkt ondanks alles hoopvol. In de door mij gelezen editie bevond zich echter ook een nieuw voorwoord voor de tweede editie uit 1937, tien jaar na de eerste editie en in een volledig andere wereld. In dit voorwoord is alle hoop verloren en blijft alleen maar de angst voor het onvermijdelijke over. Dat is misschien wel het indrukwekkendste aan dit boekje.
Nejbrilantnější částí je bezesporu hned úvodní stať, zamyšlení se nad skutečností co obnáší býti židem v Evropě 20./30.
Následuje oddíl "žid a město", na které navazují jednotlivá nejvýznamnější města Evropy, v nichž židé žili (Vídeň, Berlín, Paříž), a také země Spojených států amerických a Ruska.
Dovolil bych si uvést dvě citace: "Židé vyvraceli přísloví, které říká, že když se dva perou, třetí se směje.
Židé byli stále ten třetí, jenž neměl žádný důvod ke smíchu." (str.
Proč si tedy evropské státy osobovaly právo šířit civilizaci a morálku ve vzdálených světadílech?
Proč ne v Evropě?
But in 1927, years before these works were written, Joseph Roth (1894-1939) composed The Wandering Jews.
In these stunning dispatches written when Roth was a correspondent in Berlin during the whirlwind period of Weimar Germany, he warned of the false comforts of Jewish assimilation, laid bare the schism between Eastern and Western Jews, and at times prophesied the horrors posed by Nazism.
The Wandering Jews remains as vital today as when it was first published.
"Only in the East do people live who are unconcerned with their 'nationality' in the Western European sense.
Nationality is a Western concept.
Roth is always on the side of the downtrodden and oppressed and strongly champions the Jews of Eastern Europe.
In particular he provides interesting anecdotes and insights about life in the Shtetl and a very human understanding of the sheer grind of having to get by and survive in Anti-Semitic societies.This is well worth reading not least because the subject matter is so important, but “What I Saw: Reports from Berlin 1920-33” is a better book.
If you’ve not read any Roth before then start with the novels, which I strongly recommend.
A brilliant angry little book.
Still, filled with insights into the relationships that Europe, both East and West, had with it's Jewish populations, and the relationship Jews had with the European countries that they lived in.
Which is much too simple an explanation, since Roth by no means typifies the Jewish population of the time, I think around 1927, but instead explores the complexity they felt in religion, nationality, identity, and anti-semitism.
The angry comes through in his prose, and I found myself very moved over many parts of it.

It was very interesting to read this book, written about the Jewish population largely immigrating from the East to the West, written in the 1920's and early '30's. He touches on topics like the growth of Zionism or colonization of Palestine and Hungary and discusses the plight of the "Wandering Jew" in a variety of locations throughout Europe and in America. It was just a great personal yet impersonal overview of the trials and tribulations of the Jewish people, their endearing qualities, and their eternal struggle with "papers".
A fascinatinganalysis of a Jewish underclass between the world wars. It paints a dystopian picture of homelessness, statelessness and persecution ahead of the horrors of the aholocaust. Roth's afterword , written in 1937, is eerily accurate in its predictions but even he could not foresee the attempted annihilation of the Jewish race by the Nazis. He puts the Zionist into context, understanding why they exist but sceptical about their aims. Memorable.
"La vita errabonda è un dolore che si addice agli ebrei - come del resto a tutti gli altri. Affinché non dimentichino che a questo mondo nulla perdura, neanche la patria; e che la nostra vita è breve, più breve ancora della vita degli elefanti, dei coccodrilli e dei corvi. Persino i pappagalli vivono più a lungo di noi." (p. 119)
http://p3.publico.pt/cultura/livros/7...
A lyrical portrait of a vanished culture and people, Roth's The Wandering Jews, 1927 but I think revised and updated in 1939, approx, ranks closely with Heschel's The Earth Is the Lord's: The Inner World of the Jew in Eastern Europe, 1949.
Roth chiefly addresses the causes and attitudes surrounding the rift between Eastern and Western Jews, one that still exists - along with mutual ignorance of one another's realities - although the worlds that supported this schism are gone.
Most important, especially in the shadow of the Shoah that followed TWJ's publication, Roth says that antisemitism will not cease until the Jews' 'host countries' achieve their own internal freedom and dignity, which seems to me an immeasurably profound truth.
Descrizioni così amorevoli di un mondo distrutto che inducono alla commozione.Ed è terribile pensare a ciò che Roth ancora non sapeva, ma semplicemente intuiva e temeva, ammonendone anche gli amici più scettici (Stefan Zweig su tutti).Nel gennaio del '33 lasciò Berlino poche ore prima che Hitler salisse al potere.-----------Frohmann sostiene di aver lavorato sette anni a questo piccolo tempio in miniatura [copia del tempio di Salomone].
The Soviet Union is officially, at least, moving beyond the state antisemitism of the Czars.Yet, the plight of the refugees is often hard, strange lands often hostile, and Roth feels many Jews are losing what he considers is there Jewish identity.
Never mind, that as the reader knows, all of Europe would descend into the Holocaust not long after.This is a heartbreaking and enchanting book.
It’s not the kind of life most of the Jews I know, or myself with one foot on in the tribe, would want.But read this book as a snapshot...
A more focused sociological description than Roth’s journalism but still with the novelist’s touch.
The book is worth it just for the mordant preface which bitterly satirizes the obloquy with which eastern Judaism is treated.
Roth’s perspective is colored by his anti nationalism and anti modernism, and his critical attitude against both zionists and assimilated Jews - much of this is an argument between eastern and western Judaism.
The vitality and anti modernism that Roth found in eastern Judaism found its murdering obverse in Hitler’s rage against the ‘sub human’.
Een boek uit 1927 maar de eerste pagina lijkt gisteren geschreven.Het gaat over joden op de vlucht naar West-Europa. De overeenkomsten met vandaag zijn verrassend.Moet dringend door iedereen gelezen worden.
An overview of Eastern European Jewry written in the late 1930s. An incredible poignant and melancholic glimpse of a society that exists no more and that has now vanished for ever. Roth has a wonderfully pithy and understated writing style. This book was as pleasurable to read as it was sad.
After reading The Radetzky March of Roth's I read this short book. Fascinating look at how Roth sees the differences between the Eastern and Western Jews.
Engaging, evocative, brief history.
Clarifica la diferencia de los Judios de europa oriental y los Judios occidentales.Trata de quienes son, como viven, como llevan a cabo sus practicas religiosas.
Tambien trata de los Judios Sovieticos.Este ensayo fue escrito a los fines de los veintes del siglo XX.
Desde la caida del Imperio Astro-Hungaro hasta 1929, que fue cuando Roth lo escribio, que a proposito esta muy bien escritoImportante tambien el hecho que los Judios eran Ortodoxos o socialistas o marxistas o artesanos o Musicos y queren simplificar a todas estas caracteristicas nos lleva a la falsa conclusión de la generalización
