https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/214332.The_Case_for_Faith
So, God could choose to prevent the birth of Hitler, because he could, but he didn’t do that, so he’s omnipotent but not good.
Let me say that neither the author Lee Strobel nor Prof Kreeft spends any time contemplating that maybe God isn’t good or loving.
That’s at least intellectually possible….It’s at least possible that God is wise enough to foresee that we need some pain for reasons which we may not understand but which he foresees as being necessary to some eventual good.
If a menacing mob of teenagers got away with this and God didn’t come to the defence of his prophet, just think of the negative effect that would have on society.
In fact, as once commentator said…’The disastrous fall of Samaria would have been avoided had the people repented after the bear attack’.”I’m happy to report that Lee Strobel’s doubts about God for making violent she-bears maim 42 little children were entirely resolved.
IN CONCLUSIONI think it’s time for me to stop trying to find an interpretation of Christianity which makes sense.
In this prefatory parable we are told that Templeton (former evangelical crusader and colleague of Graham) lost his faith because he began to ask serious questions about his evangelical Christian beliefs.
) Is it a little odd that a book claiming to ask and answer difficult religious questions would begin by demonizing critical thinking and intellectual honesty?
Is it strange that before the reader even reaches the first chapter of a book claiming to take an honest look at "the toughest questions facing Christian beliefs", a person who dares question conventional, evangelical/fundamentalist dogma is portrayed as standing on a precipice of doom all but surely condemned to a future of misery, failure, ruin and despair?
Closed-minded atheists will not appreciate this work (or any other pro-God book) and will ultimately find ways to ridicule its content simply because they don't want to hear/believe any case for our Creator.
For Christians and open-minded seekers of Jesus, this book will open your eyes and hearts to understand the objections to Christianity and offer valid, beneficial viewpoints to help answer them.
The book gave me greater understanding of my faith and has since helped me offer valid points of view when talking about Christ with my non-believing friends.
This book should be renamed "The Case for Faith (if you already have plenty of it)".
Because if you don't already have faith, this book makes zero valid points and just frustrates any analytical reader with non-existant logic, false sincerity and a lot of circle-jerking.On the killing of the Egyptian firstborns:...technically nobody is truly innocent.
The hypothesis is God raised Jesus from the dead.
That doesn't say anything against the laws of nature, which say dead men don't come back to life naturally.- As long as you seperate God from natural laws, and sort of miracle becomes believable...
Perhaps a litmus test for one's attitude toward fundamental Christianity.Good for those whose aim is to become or stay Christian, not so good for those without preconcieved notions.The book makes no secret of the fact that its design is to aid persons who already desire to be Christians.For example, the last chapter is dedicated to disputing "Obection #8: I Still Have Doubts, So I Can't Be A Christian".And in Strobel's Ch. 2 interview with William Craig, Craig states, "You don't need to have all your questions answered to come to faith.
Is faith merely to fill in a religion's gaps in logic?Will God really condemn those who honestly say, "I don't know."?
This book is so worth reading!
Even better than The Case for Christ!
Parts of it are really scientific and, for me, those were difficult to get through, but I was astounded by the quotes of the atheistists!
I had no idea that they had such little fact on which to base their beliefs.
One part of the book that stuck with me was when someone said that when he needs an atheist point of view, he goes to the pyschology dept.
of the university because the physics dept.
After breaking up with the guy with the different religion, and being devistated it made me really sit down and think about my faith one more time. I enjoyed this book because it didn't make me question it even more, but made me think... what else CAN I believe. This is the only thing that makes sense. And its ok to have questions still, but Faith is all that is needed.
A perfect book for the intellectual, the doubter and the inquisitive. Mind gripping answers to soul seeking questions.
If you know anything about logical fallacies, stay away lest your head explode on page three. If not for your own sake, then for the person who gets stuck cleaning chunks of skull and gray matter from the ceiling of your bathroom.
Obviously, losing faith isn't that simple, correlation doesn't imply causation, and this book may be great for some people, but I want to add my reaction because I'm concerned for anyone who reads this book while troubled about their faith...it may be a really, really bad idea.I grew up in the church, but I've always had doubts.
Eternal Hell also seems to me to contradict the argument that God uses earthly pain as a teaching tool like a parent making a child do his homework.
According to Strobel, they're downstairs being tortured right now, and will scream in Hell for all eternity.The last section is about how it's OK to have doubts.
I went along with the premise of assuming Jesus to be real, but it really didn't help.From one chapter to the next the author fails to keep his arguments coherent.
Oh yea, speaking of hell; hell isn't full of fire and worms and gnashing of teeth, no no no, that was an allegory you see, hell is just a mental torment of being away from God...as if mental torment for an eternity is somehow better than physical torment?
Throughout, the common thread is 'the end justify the means', which is Machiavellian more than divine, IMHO...and of course any troublesome bible passage that is complete abhorrent and debased is explained away by the ever handy 'mistranslation' or better yet, ignored.
This one took me a while to finish...but it was worth it! Strobel asks some hard questions, and the people he interviews don't shy away from answering them. Even if you are already a believer, you're likely to learn some things about the Christian faith; I sure did!
If the miracles of God contradict science, then how can any rational person believe that they're true?3.
If God really created the universe, why does the persuasive evidence of science compel so many to conclude that the unguided process of evolution accounts for life?4.
If God cares about the people he created, how could he consign so many of them to an eternity of torture in hell just because they didn't believe the right things about him?7.
The above, in point of fact, are the eight most common objections to the Christian faith which this book endeavors to answer.
Strobel asks tough questions and makes a great case for a lot of the struggles people have with a loving God and His people.
I think the best conclusion from this book is that, if your soul willingly makes the decision to trust (or in the beginning, try to trust) in a loving God, follow Him, love His people, obey His commandments, read His Holy Word, strive to live like Jesus did, pray and watch His will take hold of your life, because you trust and love Him, you will trust that He has a sovereign purpose and a plan.
With chapter titles like: "Since Evil and Suffering Exist, a Loving God Cannot" "It's Offensive to Claim Jesus is the Only Way to God" " A Loving God Would Never Torture People in Hell" and more...these are all topics Lewis covers in Mere Christianity but what is different about Strobel is that he searches for answers with people specializing in certain topics...Strobel is a man with questions and seeks out the most interesting people and each chapter is laid out in a kind of interview format, asking all the questions you ever wanted to know to people you could only dream of asking.
Very rational arguments presented. Chapter 2 is excellent. Chapter 3 is fascinating. Try to win this debate against the facts he and leading scholars and scientists present.
روعته باينة في رحلة التغيير الجذري لحياة للكاتب بعد قرار الايمان بيسوعروعته تتجلى بشكل مبالغ فيه في اخر فصل و الخاتمة فعلا هما احلى واهم جزء في الكتاب ..ونصيحة لو حصل انك زهقت في اي مرحلة اثناء قراية الكتاب وقررت متمكلش قرايته -مش مهم-لكن اوعم متقراش الجزء العظيم ده الكتاب ده يشترك مع كل كتب اللاهوت الدفاعي -في انها بينقي ايمان الواحد من الافكار الغريبة عن الله وايماننا اللي كتيير بنكون وارثنها وعايشين بيها بغض النظر عن مدى ارتباطها بالاعلانات الصريحة في الكتاب المقدس-الكتاب اظنه في اكتير من الاوقات بسيط في طرحه لمواضيع ايمانيا معقدة فلسفيا ودي حاجة تحسب له-في اكتر من مرة حسيت ان الاجابة مش مرضية وكنت بتمنى المحاور يسأل اكتر عشان يوضح او يعمق الموضوع لكن محصلش وده جابلي احباط نوعا ما في بعض الاجزاء -في عدد من الاجزاء افتقرت لنصوص كتابية او تعاليم مسيحية معروفة تدعم الاجابة ..
Also, it is called The Case FOR Faith, not the case against it, so of course the answers it gives are going to be in support of having faith in the God of the Christians.
I think Strobel does a good job in accomplishing a book that could be viewed as an introduction to arguments on this subject.
I think it's important to remember that he once sat on the other side of belief himself, so he's probably answering the question to his satisfaction, and I feel the response he gives does contribute something useful to the discussion.
I really wanted to give this book a five star rating, it was extremely engaging and thought-provoking for about the first half. But then it just got boring and some of the arguments I couldn't agree with. Overall it was a good read and very thought-provoking but still since I didn't read all of it (I found myself skimming) because it was boring a lot I must give it three stars.
This book was loaned to me by a friend, at a time of my life when I was doubting my faith in God, and seeking a house of worship that didn't exclude me for who I am. This book reaffirmed my faith in God, and led me to read more and more and more books relating to faith, which I continue to read today.
Some good points, but not as good as The Case for Christ. I expected more. This one felt more scattered, vague, and shallow at times, when compared to Strobel's first book. It's not as airtight. Read his first one, and leave this behind.
Very evocative book! Many perspectives (life experiences and logical debate) bring one to the case for Faith ... just goes to show, there is not only one road to faith!
I really appreciate how thorough Lee Strobel is. He is honest and asks hard questions. I can’t help but respect the investigations of faith he has done.
Strobel tries to be cute in the format of the book by laying it out like a trial--with "evidence," "deliberations," and a "verdict".
As a representative of skeptics, Strobel fails to follow up on his experts' opinions with questions that most intelligent atheists would be bound to ask.
Sure, many of the questions Strobel posits are indeed difficult ones, but he doesn't ask them with the tenacity of a true atheist.
It's great to see such intelligent men expound on such interesting and important topics...and all without ever even once insulting or questioning the intelligence of those with contrary opinions or beliefs--a truly rare thing indeed.
I give this four stars...but I am already a Christian.
Obviously it's meant to bring people to God and since I have the advantage of already "knowing" God, I can't confidently give it 5 stars.
I would be curious to know what further holes, if any, an atheist would poke into the case.Same goes for the science section.
But I am quite limited in my knowledge of science.
The sections on suffering and hell were very helpful to me personally.
I don't even think it's always well-written and I don't even know if an atheist could "prove" him wrong.
as in his other books, strobel tackles some of the tough objections to the christian religion--this time objections that would lead to a lack of faith.
strobel does this by talking to people, he interviews christian authorities on these matters and then shares his refections.
it might not convince anyone who isn't already convinced, but it does offer a personal approach to intellectual problems which at least helps make the book more intersting to read.
and i think it does show that to be a christian you don't have to check your brain at the door.
(I haven't time nor inclination to list the rest of my complaints with this book.)In Chapter 4, Strobel asks Geisler how a loving God could allow for the slaughter of innocents already residing in the Land of Canaan at the hands of the Jews.
He continued with this weak rationale and then summated by explaining that because the children were Amalekites (or Canaanites, or whoever), there was no hope for them in any respect; he likened them to a gangrenous leg that had to be excised from the body.Strobel challenges no further and even when Geisler states that the younger children are basically "okay" because of the "Age of Accountability" which can be found in the Bible.
Strobel interviews Peter Kreeft about the Problem of Evil/Suffering: Special pleading and little else.
A tri-omni god (all-loving, all-knowing and all-powerful) would not allow any suffering to occur.
Evolution Explains Life, So God Isn't Needed: this isn't really an issue; there are millions of theistic evolutionists in the world.
A Loving God Would Never Torture People in Hell: Wow. So hell is a "mercy" according to Strobel JP Moreland.
Church History is Littered with Oppression & Violence: Strobel again dodges the issue; a tri-omni god would not have allowed any suffering to occur.
Each scholar is meant to be the credible voice on one of the eight objections.Strobel employs a formulaic writing style, such that his chapters read rather similarly.
For example, Strobel interviews someone on the objection, "why does God let children suffer?" (I cannot recall the exact title of the chapter).
For instance, a chapter is devoted to the question of why God, who hates when his children suffer, would send people to hell when he wouldn't necessarily have to.
