https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80268.The_Holy_Terrors
For Paul and Élisabeth, the central characters of Cocteau's dark and dreamy novel, the shared world of childhood fantasy takes on a more all-consuming and sinister aspect.Orphaned twins, they construct a haven of their own in their dead mother's apartment on the rue Montmartre (just round the corner from where I work), where their room is all low lighting, red textiles, pictures pinned up from newspapers, and a collection of hoarded ‘treasure’ brought back from the outside world.
Facing the street and brother and sister take turns dressing it up with how they want the room to look that dad.
I am also thinking a lot about those books and how much "I wish that she had read more books so she could live in those instead of with lifeless real people" I felt about Olivia from those books.
Agatha with the same face as Paul's only recurring dream of the boy who happened to throw the snowball to invalidate him.
If you're going to live in a room you need to find some way to leave it if it's going to keep you alive.
Midsummer Night's Dream machinations (with a little Anthony and Cleopatra mixed in for good measure) between any two of Cathy and Heathcliff, Laon and Cythna, (oh why not throw in a few of the Greek Pantheon as well - although they did more than just mess with each other's minds and really, who cared back then anyway) shot in very sexy black and white and accompanied by a stunning selection from Vivaldi and Bach. Not long on ambiguity, plenty of nods to Freudian concocteauns, marvelous narration from Jean himself. Adair's commentary is a wonderful recording of his voice.
What did grab me is the idea that ghosts could be said to exist between two worlds, and this equally applies to Elisabeth and Paul, who, it must be remembered[!], live a life between fantasy and reality; they are of this world, and simultaneously not of it.---I didn’t know how to fit this into my review without ruining the structure, so I am placing it here.I would like to point out that I do not understand the term ‘shocking’ as applied to this book; honestly, there is nothing shocking in it; in fact, the action is rather banal, for the most part.
In Les enfants terribles (1929) he reduces the dosage of poetry significantly in favor of brevity, precision and energy.
Some gestures are made by one or the other to escape this world, but they are made primarily to wound the other, to acquire an advantage, a power over the other, just as Agathe and Gérard are only pawns in their mutual game of love/hate.
Whatever gestures are made every day, late every night they re-enter their private world, the only one that really matters.
I said to Jean the other day at Mar Lago, I said, "Jean, you're a real mensch, even if you have a broad's name!" We both got a kick out of that, me saying the Jew word.
The Jews love me.
Everybody loves my Ivanka.
We both love this book, and I read it each night to her as a bedtime story.
That's key, guys: loving your family and expressing it.
And no one has ever had to wonder about my loving Ivanka.
Legs like American highways—which, I might add, are in the best condition they have been in decades under my administration.
For example, one might recognize an allegorical suggestion at the beginning of the story, in the snow scene where Dargelos, whom Paul admires, injures him with a snowball blow to the chest, leaving him permanently and morbidly ill.
Later on, as Agatha confesses her love of Paul, Elisabeth vengefully retaliates like a jealous lover.There is an unmistakably apparent 'forbidden' sexual element to the characters' relationships, starting with the Paul -Dargelos connection in the opening scene.
what the hell am I supposed to do as a reader if the author himself doesn't seem to know what the point of his novel is???As for the protagonists, well, they bored me to death.
They bored me to death precisely because they kept doing their best to turn me on and get me interested in their shallow existence, like annoying children asking for attention...
Paul is a wannabe pervert with kind of a castration complex for his sister, whereas Élisabeth is a neurotic weirdo with what is supposed to be a sadistic tendency - in Cocteau's intentions, that is.
First, Cocteau’s sumptuous, surreal little pearl of a novella, in peerless translation from Rosamond Lehmann. Next, Gilbert Adair’s affectionate rip-off The Holy Innocents (spot the pun). Next, Bernardo Bertalucci’s film The Dreamers, with a screenplay by Gilbert Adair. Next, Gilbert Adair turns his screenplay (or re-edits his original novel) into a novelisation of The Dreamers. Not a dud in the bunch. An Olympic relay of sultry, challenging art. What better?
Totally weird, poeticized use of language.
Totally weird relationships.
But it works.The central obsession-immolation dynamic (these siblings are like an implicitly incestuous Wuthering Heights -- the center cannot hold and will take everyone else with it) is essentially obvious from the very start, but this is still totally compelling.
Even so, as we get closer the ending starts to come into focus and the total gripping intensity of the first half wanes a little.
It is at him, none other, that the hand is pointing; he staggers; his pale lips open to frame a shout.
Reading this is sort of like floating up, up, up into the clouds of a beautiful, serene blue summer sky, then suddenly dropping dozens of stories and getting bashed into billions of bloody, mushy bits.
A sort of surrealist reading. A love and hate experience of two orphan siblings (Paul, Elisabeth) which includes games (The Game, actually - their game) and plays that replace the real life. These games and especially the plays require partners and, mostly, an audience (Gerard, Agathe). And when the audience becomes too involved and the risk of intrusion in their inner word is too obvious, they are masterfully (and mischievously) removed.
Bizarre Westermarck –defiant melodrama tuned in to the obsessive convolvulations ™ of a brother and sister who transverse a wide gamut of other relationships but ultimately end up each others best playdate.Orphaned through a stroke of magical surrealism, Elisabeth and Paul end up keeping house together as teens in 1920s Paris.
Agatha?Love itself, as framed by the quartet, a love that may not possibly exist outside it?Elisabeth herself is needy: she needs all players focused on her, irrespective of gender.
This is a fantastic, surreal and artistic book, incredibly erotically charged, which explores the other, darker side of love.
It is a story about a brother and sister, Paul and Elisabeth – without a father and with an invalid mother – and the different romantic obsessions that they have.
At first Paul is obsessed with another boy, Dargelos, who looks very feminine.
Paul becomes very ill when Dargelos throws a snowball at him that has a rock inside it, and Elisabeth looks after him.
Strange in the obsessions it explores with beauty or the idea of beauty at the center of it all.
Mám rada kapelu Cocteau Twins.
Cocteau v ich názve je básnik Jean Cocteau a Strašné deti sú jeho ťažiskovou prózou.Pri čítaní novelky mi neustále naskakovali scény z Bertolucciho filmu Snílci.
Plášť bol pridlhý a zavadzal jej.
Ale schádzala mechanicky, plná mechanizmu, z ktorého počula iba hukot.Prvá veta:Sídlisko Monthiers sa nachádza v zovretí Amsterdamskej ulice a ulice Clichy.Posledná (päť)veta:Ale čo vôbec chce?
O čo jej ide?
Vlákno sa pretrhne a z izby, čo odletela, ostáva iba odporný zápach a drobná dáma na ostrovčeku, ktorá sa zmenšuje, ktorá sa stráca.Saint-Cloud, v marci 1929Goodreads výzva 2018:164.
dočítaná kniha(a tiež 999.
dočítaná kniha zaevidovaná tu na GR)
Two siblings, Elisabeth and Paul, are constantly at each other's necks but are at the same time inseperable, playing the Game that very often takes other people's feelings into account.
I found that the Game wasn't as big a theme as I thought it would be, with more emphasis on the Room that was their safe haven and bewitching to outsiders.The siblings, particularly Elisabeth, are for the most part terrible human beings, and there are often strong allusions to incest which doesn't bother me but might bother other people.
Jean Cocteau.
**.This is the only work I have read by Cocteau, and might very well be my last.
It is a short novel about the absurd lives of two children; a brother Paul, and his sister, Elisabeth.
They live with their sick mother, who very early on dies and they are left alone.
The two develop a weird relationship with each other that involves playing a ‘game’, never clearly defined, that mostly occurs within their ‘room’, that place in the house where they both live.
That puts him at the mercy of his sister for his care, but it allows them to play their game in freedom.
Actual rating: 2.5Not impressed.The story of a severely tempestuous and co-dependent brother and sister, Elisabeth & Paul, orphaned following their mother’s death, slowly devolves into chaotic isolation, one in which drags down with them two others, Gerard & Agatha.
I felt nothing for any of the characters, for they all were pitiful and varying levels of insane in their own ways...
but Elisabeth, I must say, is the antichrist.
I felt detached most of the readthrough.
I did have an appreciation for the fever dream quality of the story as a whole, though.
Suffice it to say that this book will appeal to those who appreciate Greek tragedy tuned to a decidedly modern key (I couldn't help thinking of Alain Robbe-Grillet's The Erasers -- here, as in that work, things already seem to be preordained from early on in the novel, and references to Greek mythological figures occasionally surface as little hints of what's to come).
This is one of those books like 'The Little Prince' or 'The Velveteen Rabbit' which rewards that craving; which provides respite from all our daily jargon, acronyms, and buzz.
The excellence stems from Cocteau's insight to youngish minds; adolescent minds-- although these children do not stand still--the end of the novel finds them of marrying age.
The novel has the magic and potency of both Jean Cocteau's two most famous movies, which is why I reached back so far to find it (they are the pioneering fantasies, 'La Belle et la Bette' and 'Orphee', which if you've never seen either, you really should).
Poezie v próze je zcela jistě zábavná věc, ale když to člověk louská v angličtině dost opilej, tak bych asi možná raději preferoval kokain nebo třeba škrábat brambory.Tahle kniha je o maníkovi, kterej se zraní při koulovačce a pak je celej život v pokoji, kde pořád prudí ségru a ségra prudí jeho kámoše a pak kámoš přitáhne kámošku a všichni se prudí navzájem.
Nicméně se z toho nakonec vyklube klasická valba na "co se škádlívá, to by se rádo rozmnožovalo," ale Jan Koktal si pro nás připravil jiný závěr, který mi dal vzpomenout na jiná klasická díla, jako třeba Romeo a Julie nebo Džambulka, Macura a Rychtář.I když to závěr zvedl, stejně hodnotím jen třemi hvězdami, protože jsem nekompromisní.
His foray into novel writing, Les Enfants Terribles, was first published in France in 1928, and in this translation in 1955.Siblings Paul and Elisabeth share a 'private world...
He turned up one day at home, raged, stamped, took to his bed, found himself unable to get up again, and died; thereby bestowing his end upon the wife he had repudiated'.Les Enfants Terribles opens with Paul being knocked unconscious by a snowball, which appears to have been thrown by a boy whom he is infatuated with.
The novel and prose are imbued with a dreamlike and surreal quality and whilst some might point to the incestuous undertones between Paul and Elisabeth, but I am not sure if the story is about “sex” but more about the extremes of adolescent emotions.
In "Les Enfants Terribles", Jean Cocteau spends the first thirty-or-so pages casting a spell over the reader, with lush, beautiful descriptions of the setting while setting up most of the lead players.
I've read some comments where readers complain that these characters don't show much care for characters in their lives who die: welcome to opium addiction.
Unfortunately, despite it's magical writing, filled with addictive descriptions, the story never takes off.
So, with that in mind, the reader must be able to engage with the characters, their bizarre relationships (that I found fascinating), and the games they play--if, however, the reader finds the characters and their development lacking within the first third, there's little chance there's anything to enjoy in what ensues.

The book starts out as an innocent coming-of-age story but transforms itself into a macabre phantasmagoric thriller towards the end.Breathtakingly beautiful Cocteau's style illuminates the themes of teenage friendship and love, jealousy and cruelty, his imagination creating grotesque and twisted but eminently fascinating and haunting images.
With concise prose that borders on perfection, Cocteau describes a sibling bond of mystical proportions thriving on childhood's intricate magic, and the blunt club of encroaching adulthood destined to destroy it.
The siblings, the “twin seraphs”, curiously united by a familial intimacy verging on romantic love, do not know the meaning of “embarrassment in the presence of each other” and their shared space is “a masterpiece of their own being” in which they live, dress, wash together as if “twin halves of a single body.” Left largely to their own devices, after the death of their mother whom they had treated “with scant consideration, but nevertheless they loved” Elisabeth and Paul entice outside spectators into “The Game”.
Young adult novella, which is not marketed as YA because 1) it was written before such genre was established 2) because adults don't want kids to read books like this 3) although the central figures are 14 and 16 at the beginning of the story, this doesn't necessarily mean it's YA; it more than tolerates adults' reading.
"Les Enfants Terribles" (terrible children) is the original and appropriate title, and when they could no longer hold onto their world of childhood, due to unforgiving process of maturity, the story had to explode.Read in Japanese translation.
I wish I could read the original French.
Before reading this book, I really just considered Cocteau to be a french novelty who made some enchanting films.
Most notably I enjoyed his treatment of Plato's androgyne myth with the titular couple--the incestuous brother and sister.
He also manages to capture that other world of adolescence, which he places between the realms of dreams and the imaginary, where the boundaries of death and life are blurred and unrecognizable.
There is so much to say about this book: it's a complicated look on love, adolescence, myth and ritual.
A really great and fulfilling read--I can't wait to delve deeper into the world of Cocteau in every medium!
