https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/450553.The_Sufis
It comes over not only as an authoritative work but it clearly shows that the author is thoroughly familiar with the Sufi Way itself, having trodden that Path like Sufi mystics and action-philosophers before him, and having returned to help others along the Way. The work offers a detailed explanation of Sufi thought and action, scattered throughout the book, and together these points not only slowly build up a more-and-more coherent picture in the reader's mind but form a constellation of minor impacts designed to bypass the mind's censors, and "loosen up" prejudices and fixed thinking patterns.As well as providing information, which has its place in preparatory studies, Shah's many books are primarily works designed to provoke and bring about change in the reader, initially perhaps at the level of opinion and belief, intellect and emotion (not least through the use of specialist teaching stories).

Yet this simplistic idea doesn’t convey the full sense of what Shah is trying to say, and the very premise of the book is that it is only a means to bridge a gap between the intellectual and the form of knowledge that the Sufi comes to realize.
The idea of the guide in current forms of Sufism stretches back as a spiritual lineage to the Prophet Mohammad (s.a.w.), and this concept of spiritual ancestry leads us to the realization that religious knowledge as a language, a set of forms, symbols is necessary to the Sufi.

The Sufi is the linguist.”•	“The totality of life cannot be understood so runs Sufi teaching if it is studied only through the methods which we use in everyday living.”•	“Nasruddin hammers away at the essential idea that mystical experience and enlightenment cannot come through a rearrangement of familiar ideas but through a recognition of the limitations of ordinary thinking, which serves only for mundane purposes.”•	“People sell talking parrots for huge sums.
But  it’s  scattered  throughout  this  50th  anniversary  edition  of  The  Sufis  by  Idries  Shah.
Not  simply  Islamic  mystics  or  “hairy-footed  metaphysicians”,  the  Sufis  and  their  teachings  took  many  forms  to  suit  the  time,  place  and  people.
It’s  filled  with  major  historical  figures  and  “secret”  societies  who  were  influenced  by  these  remarkable  people.
It  solves  ancient  lingering  puzzles,  only  to  introduce  new  deeper  ones:  not  for  amusement,  but  as  something  to  work  through  or  grow  through.
Could  their  ancient  practical  philosophy  help  us  make  the  necessary  changes  to  solve  today's  seemingly  intractable  problems;  and  even  help  us  go  beyond?
This is THE book on Sufism as explained to the Western world. I originally read it several years ago, and this book is timeless. I highly recommend it to anyone who is wondering what Sufism is all about.
The presentation of data in many of these areas indicates a familiarity with an immense amount of historical, cultural, and esoteric material -- a familiarity also hugely in evidence in the author's prior work "Oriental Magic." The book appears to be extremely valuable just as a presentation of historical information.
Because the book seems to contain indications of how Sufi study should be approached in order to learn what it has to teach.
This is one of the few books I can say definitively changed my life for the better.
I remember reading it in university, when I was in the firm grip of western analytic philosophy.
I realized, at once, that every philosophical tool I'd ever been trained to use in university wasn't right for this book.
The more I read, the more clear-headed I felt.
I could see the dim outline of something important emerge from the text, something I'd felt was there all along in life, but couldn't approach, unless I changed my thinking, refined what was useful in me.
It was a a real gem in a time of peculiar cults and superficial views of spirituality.
The book is an experience to read and reread and does lead to glimpses of a different way of seeing and experiencing the world.
It clearly has a place now in a time perhaps even more full of pointless distractions and depressing nihilistic views of humanity.
Reading 'The Sufis' could lead into a whole new world of ideas and viewpoints and at the very least will make a person think about things afresh.
amazing read for everyone wjo to understand the way of the sufis and the better side and part of islam
Shah's first book, now 50 years old and republished, new jacket, new font, available as a PoD, and soon to be issued as an ebook.It's challenging to review a book in which the author states, ''...
...'' but anyway.Within its covers Shah introduces the reader to Sufism, which some take to mean 'Islamic mysticism' yet the author opines, that while many of its leading lights have been members of the Muslim faith, metaphysics actually precedes religion and controversially, that religions are the cultural husks, the detritus of mystics and their communities.
ليست مراجعة وإنما ملاحظاتي على الكتاب - يحذر الكاتب من البداية بإنه مالم يكن القارئ صوفياً فلن يفهم الكتاب!!- الكتاب يقدم ربط تاريخي لجميع الحركات او الجماعات "الصوفية" في العالم - كثير كثير من التطويل والاسهاب احسست بالملل بعض الأحيان - شيء من فلسفة وفكر الصوفية- ركز على اللغة الرمزية للصوفيين وشرح بعض طرق التشفير- وصف. لطريقة دخول "السالك" اي التلميذ الى جماعة صوفية والمراحل التي يمر بها-خصص بعض الفصول لاهم الشخصيات الصوفية. لم تقدم جديداً بالنسبة لي -في مواقع كثيرة من الكتاب المعلومات غير مكتملة ومقطوعة
Attention, initially caught by the `Derelict Organisations.''Since it is this outer shell which is most easily perceptible to the ordinary man, we have to use it, to point to something deeper.'So that was what Chivalry was about; The Legends of the Grail; Elenour of Aquitaine; The Troubadours and Harlequins that had captured a puzzled imagination.
Puzzles that had more or less been banished as unknowable, or to the dustbin of someone else's, fevered imagination.Here was Sir Richard Francis Burton, and The Kasidah that entranced: caught by the rhythms of the English language and the haunting refrain.Of course there is much more to 'The Sufis than the above.
الكتاب يقع في 600 صفحة، ظننت حينما بداته أنني ساقرأ شيء جديد عن الصوفية إلا أنني للأسف لم أجد الجديد، .
الكتاب يبدأ بحكاية رمزية عن الصوفية باعتبارهم ملاك الحقيقة دون غيرهم، وان نسيان الناس للحقيقة الصوفية لا يعني انتفاء وجودها.
ووتحدث عن الصوفية الغربية.قدم الكتاب سيرة لعدد من أهم أقطاب الصوفيةالكتاب به الكثير من الغرائب، كالعلاقة بين الصوفية والماسونية.
اهتم المؤلف بالنفاذ إلي رمزية قصص وحكايات الصوفية ومن أشهر أصحاب القصص التي شرحها، الشهير (جحا)، فالكاتب يري أن وراء الظاهر للقصص أمور رمزية خفية هي المقصودة.لأن الكتاب كان ممل بشدة، فقدت الميل إلي أكماله ومواصلة قراءته بعد المائة الأولي من صفحاته،.
Until Idries Shah’s seminal book THE SUFIS was published more than a half-century ago, most people in the West knew next to nothing about the subject – and what little they did know was likely to be erroneous.
THE SUFIS remedied that so effectively that it remains the definitive work on Sufism to this day, and the world into which it gives a tantalizing glimpse is one of unsuspected breadth, sophistication and relevance to the human condition.
In THE SUFIS, Shah combines these fragments with a wealth of other information to form a picture of a fascinating society of people, still very much alive and kicking, that since ancient times has had a profound effect on mankind.
I have read The Sufis by Idries Shah, 1924-1996, many times since the first time 1996 in my ongoing self bettering work.
Sufism is not accessible through ordinary rational and logical thinking and so it can not be understood just by reading books but they can serve as a bridge leading from the ordinary, attenuated or embryonic human consciousness into greater perception and realization, writes Idries Shah.
So I keep on reading The Sufis is a book about Sufism from an inside perspective and when it first came out in the west 1964 there were no other books like it.
It describes Sufis as "A unique and little-known religion..." Sufism is an outgrowth of Islam.
As for the book, I read it in 1977 and remembered it for the Nasrudin stories.
I bought it recently, and as I started reading it, I realized all the wisdom thyat I remembered must have been in the Nasrudin stories.
He doesn't tell you anything that would make you want to follow that path — unless you're driven to be one of the elite.
For my yoke is easy and my burden is light."
One comes away with the idea of Sufi thought, while now closely associated with Islam, as pre-dating and encompassing all known religious thought. Written from the point of view of an adept, one feels one has touched but a tiny piece of something pure and sacred.
وقت طويل ..حتى تمكنت من اكمالهـالترجمة سيئة، وهناكـ اطالة في أجزاء كثيرة منهـ..الصوفيون.. الماسونية... المنظمات السريّة.. كلهم مترابطون.. حتى وإن لم أفهم كيف ذلكـ.؟؟!!.. برابط قديم ؛ وقديم جدا!!!؟؟؟أسوأ جزء.. أن على المريد أن يتبع شيخهـ الصوفي؛ اتباع أعمى..مهما فعل هذا الشيخ من منكرات؛ فكل مشايخ الصوفية هم سيدنا الخضر.. بالرغم من أن القصة تقول: أن سيدنا موسى، ورغم أن الله هو من أوصاهـ أن يتبع هذا الرجل العليم..مع ذلكـ، لم يمنع هذا سيدنا موسى، من استنكار أفعاله..ولم يرد أي لوم ، لسيدنا موسى على استنكاره!!!!؟؟..
Almost two decades ago, Doris Lessing wrote: 'I met Idries Shah because of 'The Sufis', which seemed to me the most surprising book I had ever read, and yet it was as if I had been waiting to read just that book all my life.
If I emphasise the books, it is because they are the evident legacy of this man's life, and available to anyone.
He used to say he had never been asked a question whose answer is not in his books.'Reading this book again, having read the whole body of Shah's work, 'The Sufis' has changed.
Quite a few people that I know talk about Indries Shah and his writing.
The way the book is written wasn't really all that interesting to me and eventually I became bored.
I don't want to be offensive here.
The work didn't feel very alive to me, and I felt like I was being preached to.
If you want a very detailed book about Sufism, this is it.
I can definitely see how many people would love this book, it just wasn't my cup of tea.
This is a great work on Sufism, it just isn't that approachable.
I found this interesting, especially with the introduction by The Classicist R.
Graves, but the Marx quote referring to religion as the opiate of the masses made me refuse to embrace this middle eastern mindset.
What also brought caution to approach the languages and cultures immediately south and east of the Mediterranean was an innate fear of foreigners, even if couscous tastes nice and Yury taught me how to write allahu akhbar in Farsi so it's not as scary.
What might help assuage my nerves associated with that study would be copying it out into another notebook, as those green and pastel notebooks make me tremble and my heart beat faster.
Remember Socrates who used to say: “I only know that I know nothing.” The less one knows the easier it is to judge!??:) So, let me say this: I personally love to see Sufism as an organic and evolutionary school of practical philosophy directed by the Teacher of the Age – the most enlightened human being of any particular moment in time. Idries Shah must have been such a teacher. And The Sufis may well be an example of a book written by the Sufi Teacher of the Age. Go now, judge.
Idries Shah's interesting and sometimes complex book gives a kind of history of Sufism along with some of Christianity's similarities to Sufic thought.
One of my favorite books by Idries Shah
That alone makes this work important.In truth, the greatest benefit I find in the book is the unique Sufi / Persian / Arabic perspective it offers on Western history and culture.
I encountered some major stumbling blocks in the experience of reading this book.One is that fact that it isn’t organized in any way that I’m familiar with for a work whose purpose is to explore the nature and history of a spiritual belief system.I expected something along the lines of a philosophical discourse or a chronological history.
يحاول إدريس أن يكشف عن جوهر الصوفية التي يرى أنها تتبع كل الديانات دون تفريق بين رسالة سماوية أو غيرها أو بتعبير الحلاج هي «الحقيقة الجوانية لكل الديانات الصادقة» وبالتالي تكون الصوفية دعوة للحب والتسامح في ظل عقيدة الحب بحيث لا يكون هناك غير المساواة والتآخي وفي نهايته سلام، فيتحقق الهدف النهائي للصوفية وهو الارتقاء بالإنسان.أول ما يلفتنا في هذا الكتاب هو الطابع المعلوماتي الموسع للكتاب حيث يقدم لنا المؤلف رؤية تتسم بالاحاطة ومشهدا ثريا متنوعا حول تجليات الظاهرة الصوفية شرقا وغربا وعبر الأزمنة، مما يعطي القارئ نوع من التخمة المعرفية في الأفكار والأسماء والعلاقات والرموز والحكايات والدلالات ....الخ تنقل القارئ الى فضاء نصي يتسم بالتنوعة وقد يشوش قليلا على الجديد في القراءة في هذا النوع من الكتب.حاول إدريس شاه تغيير مفاهيم خاطئة عن الصوفية باعتبارها اليوم مجرد سرد تاريخي، فكشف عن التقليد الروحي الذي ضم كثيرا من أعظم المفكرين في العالم أمثال جلال الدين الرومي، عمر الخيام، ابن عربي، الغزالي، السعدي، العطار وغيرهم وأثر التصوف على تطور الحضارة الغربية بداية من القرن السابع الهجري وظهور فلاسفة مثل روجر بيكون إلا ان معلوماته عن هذه الشخصيات أتت ضحلة لم تقدم لي أي جديد في ذلك المجال.
Sufism is a beautiful area of Islam, and for me, this book offered one of the best descriptions of it that I’ve read.
I found it quite a heavy read, and had to re-read more than a few sentences, but such is the nature of a book that tries to elucidate in mere words the deeply spiritual Islamic sect of Sufism, which speaks the language of the heart.
For that reason, I did find it a difficult read and many of the stories of Nasruddin were a bit beyond me, but it’s a fault I cannot attribute to the author, only to my understanding.
A comprehensive work with many intriguing historic details, traditional proverbs, tales and sayings. It offers a fascinating and beguiling new perspective on things. Very insightful and thought-provoking.
