https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835435.Summer_Half
Written at a time when the adventures of Bulldog Drummond, (https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1...), were widely and avidly read, enjoyed and re-enacted with an ear open for the approach of Matron (p.80)) this is a witty, entertaining, situational country tale of the British upper-middle classes between the wars.
If not already written, I do hope that someone, someday will write and publish a scholarly but entertaining paper on the older-brother / younger sister relationship in English literature 1875 – 1975.
Complete silence gave him no clue as to what was going on, but he found it reassuring.” (p.131).The body of shared English literature referred to in this book is, sadly, no longer widely shared.
Therefore, I feel that one should not start reading the novel with a lofty sense of literary expectation.The books have a weak plot but are filled with a cast of unmistakably middle-class British characters who belong to a bygone era.
The second was the fact that it was set in the summer- and I felt like a month of light summer reading this month, after finishing Bleak House in June.The story deals with the decision made by young and brilliant Colin Keith, a recent graduate of Oxford and destined for a career in law, to sacrifice his calling in life to take up a teaching job at the local Southbridge School, during the summer term.
Every time I go to my book guru's little book shop in town (located deliciously and somewhat dangerously nearby) I stumble upon something unexpected.
Yesterday I went in to see about a lovely old first edition of Heinrich Harrer's Seven Years In Tibet she foundfor me(try not to notice the bragging) when I discovered that after all this time, she did have some Angela Thirkell!
I'm happy to report that Angela Thirkell's writing is every bit as delicious as I hoped it would be.
It is at once intelligent and cheerful, dispelling effortlessly the often quoted notion that smart people can't be happy.

Almost all are reliably silly and very light.
The characters have grand houses and domestic staff, only a few of them work for a living, and if a man and a woman happen to kiss, they marry soon after.
Light as they are, her books also include intelligent, sensitive observations of human behavior and references to literary classics and world history.
The language is elegant, and the stories are tasteful and enjoyable (caveat: Thirkell will occasionally express a casual bigotry that is consistent with her own time and place).
Summer Half is a fine example of her work, and it's a restful and enjoyable read.
Love Angela Thirkell!What a lovely story with a happy ending.Tony Morland makes another appearance .He is such a wonderful boyish character.She has an eye for detail which is told with wit and charm.If I ever need cheering up one of her books are the ones I turn to.Highly recommended.A bygone era of class and servants beautifully written.
Colin's sister Kate also has plans for her future and his little sister Lydia just wants to read and discuss literature.
It was way too slow for me and I had to skip over most parts set in the school because the subject is not something I can relate to, not being a boy or having attended boarding school.
The parts out of school were more interesting and I really liked the Keith family and wished the story had focused more on the rest of them than Colin.
The young boys were amusing at times.
An Angela Thirkell book can always lift my spirits. Lovely.

I had to turn to ILL to see if they could get a copy for me to read.
It doesn't rate with my very favorites in the line - High Rising, Before Lunch, Wild Strawberries, for instance.
It focuses on Colin Keith, who signs up to teach in a boy's school for the summer semester, instead of reading law like his parents want him to.
Love and high-jinks occur in the typical Thirkell fashion.
Don't start here if you're new to her, but if like me you're reading your way through the series you'll find plenty to like.
This was a surprisingly absorbing & compelling book - I thought it would be a bit of fluff and although it could be perceived as such, it is so much more.
It would be very easy to take it seriously and therefore find it puzzlingly quaint and even dull but once you get the joke, it's hilarious.
There isn't a huge amount of plot but instead you are taken into the narrator's confidence and let in on all the local gossip and secrets - none of which are earth-shattering but all the more interesting for that.
One of the earliest books in Thirkell's Barsetshire series.
Summer Half was published in 1938, and the action takes place with practically no attention international affairs.
There is enough going on in Barsetshire.
As usual, the novel immerses us in a series of routine social events -- dinner parties; afternoon teas; tennis and croquet and punting on the river.
The real attraction is the characters, and this installment features some of the best.
As in other Thirkell novels, the love story that leads to an engagement serves as a kind of backdrop to the developing relationships among the more complex characters.
This may be the funniest of the Angela Thirkell books that I've read so far. I loved the characters and the mix of school and family. So much has changed about schools and teaching since this was written, but it's still so easy to identify with.
One of my all-time favorites. Rose is ridiculous, Philip is a mess, the boys are wicked.
I have now read everything by Angela Thirkell in the "Barsetshire series" that I can find on Kindle.David Byrne and Jerry Harrison wrote this: "Heaven is a place where nothing ever happens."That's why I enjoy these novels.
And lots of the ladies are widows.taken from www.angelathirkell.org/atbrief.htm:Summer Half (1937) The denouement of Philip Winters ill-begotten engagement to featherbrained Rose Birkett is enacted in full view of Southbridge School's extended family during a holiday break.
Everyone, including her parents, is rooting for Philip's escape which occurs when Rose breaks it off as the utter dullness of being engaged overwhelms her.
I read almost all of Thirkell's novels in order a few years ago, and this is the first one I've reread.
I was really struck by how different it (and the other novels from before WW2) are from her later work.
Even Lydia Keith, whom Thirkell clearly adored (as do I as a reader) comes in for some mild mockery.
Yet it's all done a sense of play; she invites the reader to come into the world and laugh at these people with her, affectionately, rather than her later habits of striking out with venom or holding them up as unappreciated heroes of the Empire.
This one is enjoyable primarily because it gives more background to characters that continue to appear in later books.
One of the boys is Tony Morland, who was the main character, with his mother, in High Rising and Demon in the House - he is in the upper house of the school by the time of this book.
Having read the later books, it was a relief to know that she actually will grow into a lovely young woman (although still occasionally airheaded!) Everard Carter, who will later be the headmaster of the school, is also introduced here as a bachelor.
I'm a fan of Thirkell anyway, but this one was a lovely English summer read (even though the temperature hear in the Cotswolds dropped to autumn while I was reading.
I also took the time to read the author biography and discovered that Thirkell is the granddaughter of one of my favorite artists, Edward Burne-Jones.
Her father was a friend and biographer of William Morris and her brother was also a novelist.
Sounds like an interesting family and after reading about her father I can't help wondering if a little of him appears in some of the characters in Summer Half.
This is my least liked of the Thirkell novels I've read so far. It's set largely in a boy's school, which is less congenial than the family settings of the others, and the characters are less rounded. Colin and Rose are particularly one-dimensional, and young Tony Morland is a lot less obnoxious than he was in High Rising. I liked Lydia though, and as ever there are some entertaining moments.PS the GR book summary is full of spoilers! I know Thirkell's plots are predictable, but still ...
Eventually I will post all the books I have read, but I thought I would start with the ones I loved best.
And I have a handwritten list of the books, a line or two about the plot and an outline of the multitude of characters who appear and reappear in these novels.
Summer Half features the Keith family and the masters (teachers) at Southbridge School.
Noel Merton appears as well as the Birketts and their difficult and hilariously drawn daughter Rose.
I always laugh and often re-read this as a summer gift to myself.
I only noticed the author's foreword after I had finished reading the book, but I thought it captured exactly how I felt about the story. These are her words: "It seems to me extremely improbable that any such school, masters, or boys could ever have existed." I would probably go further and say it seems improbable that any set of real life problems could ever be resolved quite so successfully. Continued
ACTUALLY LISTENED TO THE HACHETTE AUDIO VERSION READ BY PENELOPE FREEMAN!What a terrific story: Thirkell has captured the idiosyncrasies of a variety of people, classes, ages, and professions, and created a story that enchants and entertains. Penelope Freeman, the reader, does a fantastic job bringing it all to life. What a great way to entertain myself through January in Maine and the end of my semester! Anglophile escapism at its finest.
4.5 Stars.This was one of my favourite Thirkell novels yet! This one was so funny, and I think Summer Half really shows off Thirkell's witty sense of humour at its best. I also really enjoyed all the characters in this one, they were really well done and the storyline was brilliant too! Would highly recommend this to anyone who enjoys Thirkell's novels and hasn't picked this up yet!
God, Thirkell makes me laugh out loud.Mrs. Birkett looked kindly at him, thinking, as she sometimes did, what fun it would have been to have a son, and how one could guide and help him; a sentiment of whose underlying fallacy she was quite unconscious.It starts out sounding all sweetly Edwardian and then she just slips the knife in as smooth as can be.
I loved this book and was laughing through most of it. Set in a boy's school we are treated to a wonder through mid 20th century school life. The characters are enduring and the scenes and dialogue lovely. I am new to Angela's books so I have a lot of entertainment ahead of me
Not as funny as Wodehouse but still a lot of fun. I'm so grateful my friend introduced me to the prospector system our library uses. My book world has really opened up! I am glad to have access now to more books written 50+ years ago because they are delightful!
Wonderful, like a warm summer day spent gliding down the river, crumpets and jam with tea at hand. Morland and Swan are hilarious.
Not one of my favourites of Angela Thirkell - but enjoyable nonetheless.
A quiet but amusing tale of a young man who teaches at a boys' school.
Entertaining book on a term teaching at a public school,Rose the heads daughter, is so over the top as a selfish teenager to be hilarious, and reeks havoc wherever she goes.
