https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5845.A_Bend_in_the_River
Say further that the book is written by a bad guy.
I will have to hide for days."The passage confused me because, from what I know about people, they don't like being beaten without a safeword.
What I found was a quote from Naipaul about his own mistress, Margaret Murray: 'I was very violent with her for two days with my hand; my hand began to hurt...she didn't mind it at all.
I certainly did mind." (hide spoiler)]So Naipaul is not telling the truth; he doesn't have the truth; he doesn't see the truth.
I guess what is so appealing about the book is its sense of diligence, a discipline which attempts to faithfully reflect the emerging world in Africa, as it is.
Here is a wonderful instance – Indar is so ashamed of his third world identity that he desparately wants to trample his own past… ‘It isn’t easy to turn your back on the past.
And Raymond with his first world citizenship, so much yearns for the True Africa that his own past has no bearing on his personal life.
Many characters in this book, for example, feign sophistication they don't have, views they've lifted verbatim from a news clipping which they don't really understand at all, and in many other ways try to grapple with a modern world that is utterly beyond anything they comprehend, as they have only a village-level perspective on the world.
These characterizations make liberal white people sitting in the West uncomfortable; but that's their problem, and - like those characters - arise primarily from a lack of perspective of what life is really like on the third-world side.
Who knows?Anyway, it is my first time to read a book with a lot of scribbles.
There is just a page (p 191) where she wrote: "Ironic" and this is the part where the narrator, Salim says that he finds adultery as horrible when in fact he is sleeping with a friend's wife, Yvette.
Danielle seemed to have missed what Naipaul wrote on page 197, just 6 pages away from the line she finds ironic:"That (adultery) was my pride.
There was a time when I wouldn't have thought it possible."However, this novel is a lot more than adultery.
This book had such a promising start.
Naipaul's descriptions of mid-20th Century Africa were great and I think he did a terrific job of highlighting tribalism and what it must feel like to be considered an outsider in Africa.
I started off liking Salim because he was a young Indian man who left his home on the coast to go to a town along old slave trails.
Obviously Naipaul feels Africa is a dark continent with no hope for the future, I'm not sure why this book features so often on African book lists.Edited to add: I don't think I will be reading anymore Naipaul books.
4/30 here we go....I hear it sucks.5/7/09A total snoozefest.Naipaul is a Nobel Prize winner?That's crust!I did a bit of research on Naipaul as I was reading this thinking, "are you freaking kidding me?!?!" Rave reviews in Newsweek, New York Times.. and on and on and on. The Nobel Committee compared Naipaul to Joseph Conrad, saying, "Naipaul is Conrad's heir." Maybe that's just me sticking up for Conrad, author of  Heart of Darkness (and fellow Pole!)Or perhaps it's just me recognizing subpar lit
4/30 here we go....I hear it sucks.5/7/09A total snoozefest.Naipaul is a Nobel Prize winner?That's crust!I did a bit of research on Naipaul as I was reading this thinking, "are you freaking kidding me?!?!" Rave reviews in Newsweek, New York Times..
The Nobel Committee compared Naipaul to Joseph Conrad, saying, "Naipaul is Conrad's heir."
Maybe that's just me sticking up for Conrad, author of  Heart of Darkness (and fellow Pole!)Or perhaps it's just me recognizing subpar literature for what it is.*The best part of this book was a sticky note on page 200 that said, "I can't believe you made it this far"Thanks, D.
Naipaul seems very interested in telling us How The World Works, or at least how it works in Africa (he does know Africa is a continent and not a country, right?) The problem, though, is that this is ostensibly a novel and not a work of non-fiction, and Naipaul isn't a very good storyteller.
There are long, long passages where there is no dialogue, which would be all right if something interesting actually happened in those passages.
After having read Jelinek's The Piano Teacher and now this book, I think that actually speaks well for Vonnegut.
I don't think that's ever been done before.
Quoting A BEND IN THE RIVER, the Journal argued that Naipal's message is that men in the third world should be judged by the same standards as men in the industrialized west.
That state of nature has been realized in times of civil war in post-colonial central Africa and Naipal's depiction of it is terrifying.
This solution has been attempted in post-colonial central Africa.
Rather, it is an inquiry about institutions and their role in protecting humankind from our natural state, as Hobbes' envisions it.
Naipaul takes his time with the story and the pace is fairly leasurely as the both the setting and the characters are introduced and then developed in great detail.
The main character is Salim, a man of ethnic Indian descent who relocates to a small town in the central African country.
The town is dotted with the burned out ruins of the homes of the European masters who were tossed out when independence was achieved and their statues have been torn down or defaced.Naipaul has been accused of being pro-colonialism because it's not a happy picture he paints.
The characters felt like matchstick figures to me, somehow devoid of real life. I am not sure why though. The story is powerful and the flow of history is overwhelming, but I couldn't connect and experience it with them, and that was off-putting.
É visto a partir da perspectiva africana, ainda que por um indiano que ali nasceu, servindo o romance para dar conta do seu "coming-of-age".A escrita de Naipaul é boa mas não surpreende, pelo menos na tradução, já o tom imposto ao discurso esse sim é bastante particular, muito conseguido e coerente ao longo de todo o romance.
Não é fácil definir esse tom, diria que é uma espécie de melancolia ausente, no sentido em que as emoções apontam para tristeza e desaire, mas ao mesmo tempo abnegação, permitindo que a atmosfera do livro se eleve, deixe respirar, sem condicionar o sentimento, e sem nunca permitir o definhamento completo da esperança.
This is a very powerful novel. With his simple, poetic and effortless style, Naipul builds a world with very strong foundations. The characters are extremely well developed and speak personally to the reader. The political situation and the personal dilemmas flow beautifully as part of a plain narrative of a simple man. It can also be considered deeply philosophical. Sometimes the book echoes the concept of the absurdity of Camus and other times of Schopenhauer's will to live.
Pouco romance. Pouca emoção. Muita política. Muita vida africana. Grande aborrecimento. Desisti a meio.
The hell, world?So, is the man actually a good writer?
The issue at hand is that this man is harmful, destructive.
His books, and the establishment's promotion of them, actually outright wreck the world.
They imply that a little nobody with zero personality can automatically get the good-looking girl, and that he can then spit at her, and this is a cathartic scene.So here is my call out to the men and especially women of this world - don't rate his books highly, don't recommend them, don't forgive them based upon the 'beauty of the style'.
I suppose it's inevitable that readers will compare Naipaul's view of the bush to Joseph Conrad's.
Naipaul portrays an ancient African civilization coming to grips with the intrusion of modern society thrust by economic boom into its midst.
So the merchants and business traders take the steamer up the river to a bend where the New Africa is emerging.
And the New Africa cannot seem to get beyond this to create a society in which peace and justice prevail.
Mankind's inability to cope with its brutality and baser instincts represent a challenge not only in the bush.
I listened to this on audible, while driving.
But I listened to it so closely, that rather than losing the thread, it was like reading it twice.
Naipaul's voice is a voice of such genuine intelligence and clarity -- such a human sympathy for characters and such a careful grasp of plotting -- that I was immediately awed by it.
I know that Naipaul himself is a controversial figure -- but he is a wonderful writer.
A natural.(This is going to be my current drive-time listen -- and so far, it has quite grabbed me.
Naipaul, despite being so highly revered, is quite possibly more of an ass than Ernest Hemingway. Character flaws aside, this book was a bit slow and I didn't see the significance it promised.
Tecnicamente muito bom. Diria mesmo irrepreensível. Mas pessoalmente menos atractivo para mim, por estar pensado e "artilhado" com bons mecanismos narrativos mas lhe faltar a genuinidade do pessoal. Há tessituras de realidades aparentemente rapinadas das vivências (reais ou hipotetizadas) numa África abstracta, feita de muito concreto particular junto.Nada é deixado ao acaso, mas há diversos termos em branco, sendo a nota dominadora a de um malogrado iter africano, pertença ele ao negro do mato, ao mestiço do meio termo racial e geográfico, ou ao branco que vai de fora com intuito dominador ou salvador.
A Bend in the River by V.S. Naipaul - This is a memoir of a shopkeeper of Indian descent in a town with no name on a bend in the river in a fictional post-colonial country in central Africa.
I continually was thinking about abandoning this book, as not being worth the effort to read, but I persevered and finished it.
Finally, at the very end of the book, the level of interest improves.
Things become politically dangerous for the shopkeeper, so he leaves.
V.S. Naipaul won a Nobel prize.
This book surely had nothing to do with that.
Your business associate today can be your jailer or worse tomorrow." Currently, here in America, members of the military are being kicked out/deported, etc.
Now, any student of the American Revolution knows that those soldiers born in American didn't win the Revolution on their own: immigrants, especially people like Alexander Hamilton (a Founding Father who wasn't born on American soil who went on to develop one of the worlds most powerful financial system), not to mention LaFayette from France, who brought with him a navy to help America win independence.
There's no right," says the narrator about a newly formed government in Africa.
This was really, really good. The story felt very familiar, as I had read Michela Wrong's book on the Mobutu regime recently (this novel takes place in an unnamed country which is clearly Zaire, in the years after the end of the colonial regime). Naipaul writes about identities here: national, ethnic, human, male. His characters struggle for status or supremacy, or even just a little dignity. His themes are Africa vs. Europe, African vs. Indian vs. white, educated vs. uneducated, developed and undeveloped, master and servant/slave. The writing is superb.
The novel is narrated by Salim, an ethnically Indian Muslim man, a shopkeeper who believes 'the world is what it is; men who are nothing, who allow themselves to become nothing, have no place in it.', and he arrives in this part of Africa, a land of the exploited and a broken piece of nowhere, where political turmoil, and a hellish future is growing.
It took a while for the cogs of this novel to start turning. The ending retrospectively shines a favorable light on the whole, but while reading about the trivialities of an immigrant shopkeeper in a third-world country might seem exotic to some, and post-colonial Africa is always of didactic interest, I was tempted many times to just drop the book completely and write-off Naipaul as a hyped-up, “exotic” by-product of neo-colonial Orientalism. I doubt I’ll invest in another Naipaul novel, although I have to admit I am curious about his so-called “funny” books, Biswas in particular.
I read Half A Life a few years ago and enjoyed it in that "I like anti-colonialism literature" kind of way and I've had A Bend In the River sitting on my shelf since then.
A Bend in the River fits into this category - with one major qualification - and it's made me change my stance on those so-called character novels.
If you bear the above metaphor in mind, that tells you just about everything you need to understand about the novel, save one thing.Salim, the main character, an Indian who has moved from the coast of Africa to the interior (the "heart" of Africa) at "A Bend In The River".
The transition from a bush-league country to the beginnings of a world power is fully explored much like his hero Conrad did in many of his works.
The story will seem familiar, but Naipaul approaches his subject by its effects on individuals within his small community.
There is the ultimate destination of Mr. Salim, who buys out a small business there to start and maintain what he believes will be his life.
This work is extremely well done and provides a master plot for such changes in political leaderships throughout the world.
This book contains one of the great opening lines: The World is what it is: men who are nothing, who allow themselves to become nothing, have no place in it.
Salim is part of the foreign contingent of the town—Europeans, Asians, Americans—valiantly endeavoring not to allow themselves to become nothing—scheming, trading, brawling, cheating, fucking, arguing, amassing money, spreading ideas—whilst the iron fist of the Big Man and his unifying ideology and the relentless pressure of the eternal jungle bear down and threaten to crush all life from these puny trespassers and their ridiculous, ephemeral ambitions and dreams.
In fact, the novel's setting and progress is such that when one reads it many years it was written, which is what I did, one can realize how prophetic and perceptive it is about Africa and its future after colonialism ends there.
Naipaul is analytical and thoroghly unsentimental and consequently, he is rather pessimistic about Africa's resurgence with the end of colonialism, contrary to what many liberals believed.
The story follows the 'big man' who assumes power (as it always was in post-colonial Africa) and how things gradually deteriorate.
The story of this young Indian trader living in Zaire at the time of Mobutu is well told and very close to reality; I have first hand knowledge of the situation as well as timing, having lived in West Africa for almost 40 years, in Sierra Leone, Ghana, Cameroon and Nigeria shortly after Independence of these countries. The end of law and order, and invariably the beginning of tribal wars and military coups.This book was a great pleasure to read, bringing back many memories to my mind.
Thought provoking...profound...sad...excellent read.
Salim schwankt zwischen Verachtung für diejenigen, die keinen Erfolg haben, z.B. die Afrikaner im Busch, die (ehemaligen) Sklaven und Verehrung für diejenigen, die sich ihren Platz im neuen Afrika erobert haben.Sehnsucht und Enttäuschung, Ordnung und Gewalt kennzeichnen auch den zweiten Protagonisten des Romans, nämlich die Stadt an der Biegung des großen Flusses.
Genau wie Salim kommt sie nicht zur Ruhe und öffnet sich abwechselnd westeuropäisch-liberalen, sozialistischen und traditionell afrikanischen Ideen, die jedoch weit davon entfernt sind, das Land zu einem besseren Ort zu machen, sondern – zumindest in Salims Augen – die Kolonialzeit als Epoche der Stabilität und des Wohlstands erscheinen lassen.
