https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10842223-the-incal
Down and out class R detective John DiFool has a powerful artifact, The Incal, fall into his grasp.
Or the conjoined twins that rule the empire, The Emperoress?The story starts at street level with John DiFool finding the Incal and scales up a few times until it's the ultimate battle between light and darkness with the entire universe at stake.
Jodorowsky throws idea after idea at the reader without much breathing room.The story gets a little incoherent at times but it's best to hold on and pay attention as best you can.
While I enjoyed this quite a bit, I think I'll leave John DiFool's other adventures on the shelf.
I think that seeing the documentary Jodorowski's Dune helped prepare me for this book, since I knew what I was getting into.
In a lot of ways, The Incal does what Jodorowski wasn't able to do with his film adaptation of Frank Herbert's novel.
In a weird way, this story reminded me of C.S. Lewis's Space Trilogy--not a connection I was expecting to make as I read this.
My suggestion for tackling The Incal is to leave your expectations of traditional storytelling at the door.
It starts weird, and gets weirder, so it's more important to just appreciate the unbridled creativity that Jodorowski and Moebius bring to life.
When Jean Giraud or Moebius passed away, the international "comic book" or "graphic novel" lost the last of the 4 great giants who shaped the medium (the other three being Osamu Tezuka, Will Eisner and Jack Kirby)- geniuses who combined an innovative and unique look and feel, with a tremendous breadth of work.
And of course- cyber-punk went and informed everything else.To re-read The Incal- is to revisit and artist at his creative prime, working with his best life-long collaborator - Alejandro Jodorowsky.
Great art, awful writing.
Başlarında farklı tarzı ve güzel çizgisiyle sizi yakalıyor fakat sonrasında ne olduğunu anlamadan, neyin ne olduğu belli olmadan, bir yerlere sürükleniyorsunuz. Senaryosal bir sıkıntı olduğunu düşünüyor, kopukluk yaşıyorsunuz. Özellikle sonlara doğru bu kopukluk daha da artıyor. Fakat herşeye rağmen farklı bir çizgi roman okumak isteyenler için doğru adres. Taytlı pelerinli, hep aynı sona sahip çizgi romanlardan değil en azından.
I imagine those artists reading the same pages that I was and falling in love with the style and later adopting it into their own.The story-telling is a bit dated, and I usually hate saying that something is worth a read for its supposed historical importance (as if I would have any conception of which books are historically important); but I can't help but see so many elements here that were used by latter creators like P.
He claims, rightfully, that people should be inspired by the creative impulse that possessed Jodorowsky and Moebius to create this book.
I loved this book a little too much that I will refrain myself from reviewing it.This is Kilger Trout in graphic novel format with one of the most unique and most amazing artwork ever.
Filmovi su vjerovatno i uspjeli, jer su snimljeni u vrijeme kada je new age mistika bila u usponu.Nakon gledanja odličnog dokumentarca Jodorowsky's Dune, jasnije je kako je The Incal nastao.Jodorowsky je htio ekranizirati popularni Frank Herbertov znanstveno-fantastični roman Dune, ali naravno u svom stilu, dokumentarac odlično prati događaje oko projekta, tu su razgovori sa glavnim akterima, a naravno tu je i sam Jodorowsky, koji govori o tome kako je on zamislio film.
Moebius: Great at art.
Genius of western comics.
Jodorowsky: Great concepts, but has the biggest, dumbest lead foot when it comes to execution.
If you expect character development, coherent plot, robust and convincing dialogue, and any respect for subtlety at all, apply elsewhere.
But when you have something that resembles a plot, and you have enticing character concepts, and you have constant dialogue, and you have to spend more than two hours with it, it clearly kind of falls apart here.
Science fiction, comics, or otherwise?
Wild, expansive, profoundly weird space opera fairy tale replete with Dune-like bits. Lots of union-of-genders-mystic-tantra stuff here, too—definitely bears the mark of being written in the 80s. Amazing art, vivid, fast-moving action. As Brian Michael Bendis points out in his forward, it's painfully obvious that some people have spent their whole careers ripping this off, I mean, creating vivid homages.
***1/2 stars. I can see why this epic has inspired so many other sci-fi and comix creators - it's spilling over with fascinating ideas about media and technology, compelling adventure scenes and detailed cityscapes, and Moebius's eye-popping graphics. It was a fun read though also a bit clinical. The characters are all one-dimensional archetypes, there's no emotion generated, and the scenes about convincing entire galaxies to meditate had an awkward New Age feel to them. But if you're a fan of Moebius and/or Jodorowsky, this is well worth your time.
Çizgi romanın daha ilk karesinde bir grup adam tarafından feci şekilde dövülmekte olan John DiFool ile tanışıyoruz önce.
Henüz ikinci sayfada yeteneklerini sergilemeye başlayan ödüllü çizer, sayfalar ilerledikçe karakterlerine ve evrene daha çok ısınıyor ve son sayfalarda kelimenin tam anlamıyla zirve yapıyor.
Sergio Aragones’in Groo’sunu andıran karikatürize karakterler ile Enki Bilal’in Nikopol’ünü çağrıştıran fütüristik çevre, mimari ve teknoloji çizimleri çizgi roman boyunca bize kelimenin tam anlamıyla görsel bir şölen sunuyor eser boyunca.
İncal’in son sayfasını çevirdikten sonra ister istemez hepiniz aynı şeyi söyleyeceksiniz: “Daha önce hiç böyle bir şey okumamıştım.”- M.
This story is heavy in metaphysics, and it felt like a lot of the supposed profundity of the text whizzed over my head, or maybe Jodorowsky tried to jam too much into this one story.
Like I don't understand why he felt the need to introduce the five humors of John Difool, portrayed as funny little cartoon imps, when they didn't seem to add anything to the story or maybe that whizzed over my head, too.
I thought maybe I wasn't really reading the first in a series and some of the characters were developed in previous stories, but though Jodorowsky wrote some prequels, this was supposed to be a standalone story.
I should have known that this would be weird knowing that it is written by Jodorowsky. It was nice to see the art by Moebius. I just didn't like this.
Nejvíc sci-fi komiks, jaký jsem zatím četla. Asi mě ten žánr fakt baví. Zaujme hned na první straně, kde hlavní protagonista padá vstříc smrti.
Jodorowsky's "The Incal" is a decidedly unique hard book to write about because it is an experience that is deeply engaging, profoundly uneven, narratively frustrating, and dripping with Jodorowsky's almost maniac and gonzo ideas.
The epic strangeness is unique.If one is not already familiar with Jodorowsky, I strongly suggest starting with the 2014 documentary, Jodorowsky's Dune, and one can see clearly where the maniac genius of "The Incal" was born.
The spiritual allegories are also rife in this work in ways that may be somewhat alien to people not familiar with Jodorowsky.
So this what they call the contender to be "For the best comicbook in medias history" huhIts alright actually.
Pretty good Incal is not you're average Sci-Fi, hell you cant even call this a Sci-fi at all.
More like a weed trip in space actually.
Its basically Space Opera(means technology logic don't apply on this as much) part spiritual journey(means hipster people will love this) and also a littlebit of satire(like your employer have sex with a werewolf/you're bird becomes a prophet/fighting a giant scorpion naked/teaming up with other hipster friends/meeting god kind of satire).THAT'S A LOT ACTUALLY IF YOU THINK ABOUT IT
This would have been better as a silent art book. Moebius's art is astounding, but Jodorowsky's story is trash.
Típico cómic de Jodorowski con muchas pretensiones pero poco fondo, conclusión muy previsible y poco original. Al menos en esta ocasión es un cómic entretenido (aunque un poco cargante a veces) y el dibujo es genial, eso lo salva.Jodorowski tiene algo bueno, y es que tiene buenas ideas y sus obras siempre tienen conceptos rompedores y originales, lo malo es que ráramente los desarrolla y los suele dejar como parte del paisaje para centrarse en clichés.
Rutilante space / inner opera con astronavi e immersioni nelle profondità dell'animo umano con metabaroni e uccelli parlanti.I disegni di Moebius reggono bene le fantasie di Jodorowsky e aggiungono corpo e sangue :)Imperdibile.
Being true to the sci-fi genre, it also dealt with pressing social subjects, like the indifference of the individual and the media manipulation by the leading elite, which allowed (in my view) the Darkness to creep.It was then, as I mentioned, a story of epic proportions, but the storytelling was lacking.
Further, the pacing seemed rushed and there were many times where large jumps were made within the same page.For last, I left the dialogues who seemed for the most part quite uninspired and bland.
Please, be more careful the next time.
Jodorowsky - i started reading only because of this name and what an excruciating pain it is to finish reading. If sci-fi is all about writing mumbo jumbo technical words, then anyone can write too. This is bible meets edge of tomorrow/ source code. The only positive thing about reading this graphic novel is the illustrations and the color. So imaginative and vivid it is. Should think twice from now on before picking anything from hyped up writers. Phew!!
EDIT: Getting it for Christmas!Proposed animated movie trailer, very good: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c4Vkyz...Saw this in 1001 Comics You Must Read Before You Die. Holy crap.
Sci-fi mysticism, visualized LSD, tarot symbolism, and nudity
Incal her sayfasında tek başına bir bilimkurgu romanına/filmine konu olabilecek konseptlere sahip, ilginç bir çizgi roman.
Dedektiflik temalı bir bilimkurgu macerası olarak başlayan çizgi roman çabucak bir uzay operasına, oradan da mistisizm dolu bir maceraya dönüşüyor.
Bazı yerlerde konu o kadar hızlı geçişler yapıyor ki bir yerden sonra neler olduğunu anlamakta güçlük çekiyorsunuz.
Durmadan işin içine eklenen yeni sistemler, yeni ırklar, yeni ideolojiler, yeni teknolojiler, yeni gezegenler ve yeni karakterler de işi hiç kolaylaştırmıyor.
Ek olarak bolca sistem eleştirisi, insanoğlunun davranışlarını sorgulama ve cinsellik gibi konular da içeriyor.
Sonlara doğru Budizm ve mistisizm öğeleri de eklenince...
Yine de Moebius'un güzel çizimleri için bile okunmayı hak ediyor.
Incal is the most unintentional anti-drug advertisement of all time.
The legendary, always-mentioned-but-rarely-seen, influential, and illustrious Mobius and Jodorowsky work is a must read for anybody interested in the following things.
Check this out if you find yourself in any of these listings: fantasy lover, sci-fi dreamer, trip-mode druggy adventure, video games, Star Wars, art comics like Ben Jones' or CF's contemporary works, comics like X-Men or X-Whatever, desert dystopias, blade runner dystopias, rainbow industrial parks, moldy aliens, outer space, inner space, detective noir-ish characters, loners, goddesses, spiritual awakenings, and more.
If you like ANY of the above, you've probably already seen parts of this work.
Video game lovers story progression.
The complete collection of the Jodorowsky/Mœbius classic recounts the extraordinary (mis)adventures of the inept private investigator John DiFool.
Through bizarre and often metaphysical means, DiFool finds himself as the most important being in the universe.
Jodorowsky and Mœbius include several fascinating companions as DiFool follows his unwanted destiny: Deepo, a sentient concrete bird; The Metabaron, the most powerful fighter in the universe; Solune, The Metabaron's son of questionable origin; Wolfhead, hellbent on revenge; Animah, the beautiful rat queen and possible Goddess; and Tanatah, Animah's sister and Queen of the Amoks.
This unlikely team defends the universe from near destruction while ushering DiFool to his improbable, predetermined fate.
An absolute riot of art and Scifi adventure. The story is good but it's Mœbius's stunning art that makes it so interesting. Just what I needed to take my mind off of a sprained neck and shoulder. This is actually six volumes in one formatted and translated into English.
Ciencia ficción que mezcla Dune y Star Wars con una dosis importante de lo que interpreté como autoayuda y fue lo único que me incomodó de su lectura.El Incal es una suerte de deidad que por casualidad o no cae en manos de un investigador mediocre, un clase R o algo así como para entender tan bajo escalafón.
De sus casi quinientas páginas la última quinta parte es una suerte de glosario o infografía ordenado alfabéticamente explicando personajes, aspectos de los mundos, los creadores (Jodo, Moebius y demás artistas).En definitiva sin ser EMHO una obra maestra sí es un cómic distinto que merece y mucho ser leída.Pd creo que me cae mal el tal Jodo..
