https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23617.Roverandom
The tale is quaint and fairly short in which a dog, initially named Rover, is turned into a toy as an act of revenge because he bit a mean old sand sorcerer.
This leads to a series of events in which the toy is washed up on a beach, learns to fly and finally ends up in the company of the Man in the Moon.
However, the Man in the Moon already has a dog named Rover; thus, he dubs the toy Roverandom.
Tolkien’s son lost his precious toy, so Tolkien wrote this story about what could have happened to it and where it might of gone after he lost it.
A fun little tale. A little bit manic in parts but full of imagination and a bit of fun.Definitely one from the days when a kids book was supposed to challenge rather than mimic a childs vocabulary.
Roverandom is a novella by J.R.R. Tolkien, originally told in 1925, about the adventures of a young dog, Rover. In the story, an irritable wizard turns Rover into a toy, and Rover goes to the moon and under the sea in order to find the wizard again to turn him back into a normal-sized dog. The blind was down; but outside the moon rose up out of the sea, and laid the silver path across the waters that is the way to places at the edge of the world and beyond, for those that can walk on it. Tolkien
After searching for Michael's toy for two days and deciding to write a story to cheer him up, Tolkien, in December that year, mentioned Rover and the Man in the Moon in one of his Father Christmas letters as well, ensuring that the tale would become a favorite with the boys.
It would take the whole of another story, at least, to tell you of all their adventures in Uncharted Waters and of their glimpses of lands unknown to geography, before they passed the Shadowy Seas and reached the great Bay of Fairyland (as we call it) beyond the Magic Isles; and saw far off in the last West the Mountains of Elvenhome and the light of Faery upon the waves.
داستان در مورد یک سگ کوچولو به نام رُوِره که به خاطر یک مسئلهی بی اهمیت، به یک جادوگر پارس میکنه و شلوارشو گاز میگیره. جادوگر هم عصبانی میشه و اونو تبدیل به یک سگ اسباببازیِ ریزهمیزه میکنه. رُوِر هم که حالا خیلی کوچولو شده، به دنبال جادوگر تا ماه و بعد تا ته اقیانوس میره تا راضیش کنه طلسمش رو باطل کنه. مخاطبان کتاب بچهها هستن، اما کلی از موجودات موردعلاقهی تالکین اینجا هم هستن: عنکبوت، اژدها، گابلینها و ... اینجا هم آتشفشان هست و زمین صافه. قلم تالکین هم به قدری فوقالعادهست که من کلی از خوندنش ل
داستان در مورد یک سگ کوچولو به نام رُوِره که به خاطر یک مسئله‌ی بی اهمیت، به یک جادوگر پارس می‌کنه و شلوارشو گاز می‌گیره.
جادوگر هم عصبانی می‌شه و اونو تبدیل به یک سگ اسباب‌بازیِ ریزه‌میزه می‌کنه.
رُوِر هم که حالا خیلی کوچولو شده، به دنبال جادوگر تا ماه و بعد تا ته اقیانوس می‌ره تا راضیش کنه طلسمش رو باطل کنه.
مخاطبان کتاب بچه‌ها هستن، اما کلی از موجودات موردعلاقه‌ی تالکین اینجا هم هستن: عنکبوت‌، اژدها، گابلین‌ها و ...
اینجا هم آتشفشان هست و زمین صافه.
قلم تالکین هم به قدری فوق‌العاده‌ست که من کلی از خوندنش لذت بردم.
I enjoyed the notes at the back that helped me understand all the hilarious references to history and to the contemporary culture Tolkien lived in.-All the parts with Roverandom and his little boy, and their love for and devotion to one another.
It made me laugh hard during the part when one wizard was telling another wizard about the third wizard's foolish shenanigans.-The writing style, which was both exquisite and like a story being told aloud, and the lovely descriptions.-Tolkien's insertion of himself and his family at the center of the book.
Roverrandom, Yüzüklerin Efendisi ve Silmarillion gibi J.R.R. Tolkien'in devleri arasında kaybolan, kıyıda köşede kalmış eserlerden biri.
Orta Dünya’da geçmemesi de Roverrandom’u diğer Tolkien eserlerinden ayırıyor.
Roverrandom'u benim için değerli kılan şey eğlenceli hikayesi değil Tolkien'in hayal gücünün ilk kırıntılarının görülmesi.
Kitaptaki büyücülerin, canavarların, kulelerin ve diğer bir çok küçük fantastik parçanın ileride Orta Dünya evrenini oluşturacak simgeler haline geleceğini bilerek okumak kitaba farklı bir boyut katıyor.
Denizin dibine batan kıtalar, birbirleriyle anlaşamayan deniz perileri ve çirkin deniz goblinleri Silmarillion okuyanlara tanıdık gelecektir.İthaki'nin Tolkien Treasury kapsamında yayımladığı baskıyı okudum.
J.R.R. Tolkien'in illüstrasyonlarını içeriyor ve estetik açıdan oldukça doyurucu olduğunu söylemeden geçemeyeceğim.
Random is right.I read this one many years ago, when the throes of my LOTR obsession were still young. I was reading everything by Tolkien I could get my hands on.This one was a bit disappointing after the scope and characters of The Hobbit and Lord of the Rings. It was a fun enough story, I enjoyed it and all, but it was completely forgettable.Not my fave Tolkien by a long shot, but if you're a fan you kinda have to read it anyway, right?
I had never heard of this book before, and was interested in checking it out.Evidently Tolkien wrote it for, or maybe just told it to, his second son after said son had lost a toy dog on a beach outing.
Now, I'm glad he wrote LOTR, but surely the publishers could have just nipped this in their printing press, but oh well.The story involves a dog who steps afoul of a wizard.
I've never made it through The Silmarillion, and know far more people who have attempted it and failed than I do people who succeeded to make it to the end).The wit and humor in this story is superb, and I enjoyed every page of it.
Tolkien *can* write a story with a happy ending! It's a very charming tale, closer in style to "The Hobbit" than LOTR, but lighter and full of colloquialisms and word plays (many of which were lost on me!) that are rare in his other books. As he never prepared it to be published, there are a few loose ends and anomolies, but they are easily overlooked.
His complicated words and humorous phrases are intended to be read to (and by, I would assume) young children.I love that as, I've probably stated before, I as a young girl hated reading books that treated me like I was an imbecile with the vocabulary of your average orang-utan.
I hated it as much as being talked down to by "adults" and not taken seriously.In fact, I read the foreword to the book, and in it the editors noted that Tolkien specifically decried the dumbing down of vocabulary in children's books.
How could I NOT give this five stars? It was just too funny and adorable. Is it the best thing ever written? Certainly not. It's not even the best thing Tolkien ever wrote. But it is a really quirky story about magic and mischief and a lost dog. It doesn't hurt that the story was written as a way to cheer up Tolkien's son Michael when he lost a toy dog on a trip to the seaside. Just a short children's fantasy book, that would no doubt be a classic if it were not so overlooked and forgotten.
This was just so cute, sweet, and adorable! Very simple seeing how it was written for children, but I love a simple, enjoyable read now and then that I don't have to think too hard about, and this fit the bill perfectly. I recommend it to anyone who thinks a story about a dog who gets turned into a toy after biting a wizard's pants, and then goes on adventures everywhere from the moon to the ocean, sounds fun.
My first Tolkien after a decade, maybe. Nice, fluffy and heartwarming story. Since he wrote this before The Hobbit, there were many proto-LOTR characters in it. I had fun trying to draw parallels.
Assim, acabamos por partir com Rover numa maravilhosa aventura desde a superfície da Lua até às profundezas do mar!Embora o fantástico não seja o meu género literário de eleição, Tolkien é tão "convincente" que quando começo um dos seus livros tenho sempre a sensação que estou na presença efectiva de uma pessoa sábia e experiente, conhecedora dos mistérios do mundo, que me vai contar uma história espectacular.
Desde a riqueza dos cenários, passando pela cómica excentricidade das personagens, até às mais maravilhosas, embora improváveis, justificações para as idiossincrasias deste "seu" mundo, tudo neste livro se reúne para nos encantar.
This book follows the tale of a dog named Rover who incurs the wrath of a wizard and gets shrunk down to a tiny size.
I love J.R.R. Tolkien and think this is one of the quaintest little reads I have read in a long time!
If you have small children and you wish to read some Tolkien to them but think possibly that The Hobbit may not yet be suitable I strongly recommend this book!
I truly wish someone had read this to me as a youngster as I know I would have enjoyed it immensely!
Takie bajki mogę czytać swoim dzieciom.
Çok hoş bir masal kitabı bitirdim az önce. Tolkien en sevdiğim yazarlardan biridir ve onun kaleminden böyle tatlı bir hikaye okumak çok güzeldi. Aslında bahsedilecek çok bir şey yok kitap hakkında ama kısaca konusuna değineyim. Rover adlı bir köpek var. Bir gün bir büyücünün paçasını ısırınca büyücü onu oyuncağa çeviriyor ve Rover kendini bir maceranın içerisinde buluyor. Tabiri caizse başına gelmeyen kalmıyor. Ve biz bu serüveni okuyoruz. İleride çocuklarıma uyku masalı yapacağım bir kitap olduğunu söyleyebilirim. Bence her çocuğun severken okuyacağı ya da dinleyeceği büyülü bir masal. Siz de kendi çocuklarınıza, kardeşlerinize ya da yiğenlerinize okuyabilirsiniz ❤️
I read more Lassie books when I was young than I would care to admit, and a number of other animal stories.None of them were like this.None of them involved wizards or trips to the dark side of the moon or the PAM.None of them were as good as this.Roverandom wasn't your normal book.
See: "I don't believe half of them know where they are going to, or why they are going there, or would know it if they got there," grumbled Rover...(Oh, but don't read past the first page in the introduction, because it spoils everything.)
C’è già tutto Tolkien in questa adorabile favola che in veste di padre scrisse per consolare un suo 
La verità è che avrei voluto un papà come Tolkien, uno di quei papà che se perdi un giocattolo, inventa una storia bellissima per consolarti, pena di magia e mondi incantati.Rover non è altro che un cucciolo sventato che decide di dare un morso alla persona sbagliata, un mago che lo trasforma in un giocattolo. Da questa premessa iniziano le sue avventure: da giocattolo a cane alato fino al ritorno alla normalità, ma solo dopo incredibile avventure.Avrei voluto un papà come Tolkien... Vabbè, mi accontenterò del mio e, per compensare, leggerò Tolkien!
As a huge fan of Tolkien and all his works, I'm surprised that I've only decided to read Roverandom now.
Aimed at children, but definitely worth reading at any age, Roverandom is the tale of a little dog, Rover, who gets turned into a toy after meddling in the affair of a wizard, Artaxerxes.
Rover has an adventure to the moon and the depths of the sea, hoping to finally be reunited with the little boys that he misses so.I'd strongly recommend this book to anyone - even if you don't like Lord of the Rings or anything related to Middle-earth.
This is a cute book but not my favorite of Tolkien's.
I couldn't help but compare to it other books that a famous author father wrote for his children about mystical lands and containing elegant wordplay: Haroun and the Sea of Stories and Luka and the Fire of Life by Salman Rushdie, which are much more entertaining and skillful.
However, I'm a Tolkien fan, and I enjoyed this book.
It's not up to the level of The Hobbit for me, which I've read about seven times--I would never reread Roverandom--but I did enjoy it.I recommend it to people with children and to Tolkien fans.
So what to say about this? First, honestly, if you are going to have notes in the back of the book, could you please (with a cherry on top) let the reader know when there is a note? Just saying.This is not as good as LOTR or the Hobbit,yet a reader can see the beginnings of both in this story. It is hard not to see figure of Gandalf and even Biblo in this short story about a dog. It isn't, I think, as child friendly to outloud reading as the Hobbit. It lacks that later book's charm.
3.5 stars, rounded down. Cute and readable, but a mere trifle in Tolkien's pantheon. I know it was intended as a child's fairy tale, but it nonetheless just feels lacking to me, given that it was written by an master of fantasy fiction.
Es increíble la imaginación que tenía Tolkien. Escribir un cuento así partiendo de un hecho tan "normal" es de admirar.Las descripciones que hace de los lugares que visita Rover te hacen viajar directamente a la Tierra Media, con sus magos, sus dragones...Simplemente genial.
cute sweet story to read to your kids before bedtime.
Obviously I know The Hobbit and Lord of the Rings movies, I'm in love with them, and I will hopefully read the books soon.
I am thinking about writing an essay on The Hobbit.Roverandom is a quick entertaining read, it is not, however, very memorable.
I think the story behind this book is way more interesting, if I'm allowed so to say.
He gave one of his son a toy dog, who then lost it at the sea shore and never saw it again.
To appease his son Tolkien decided to tell his son about Rover, the name of the toy dog, and his adventures.
This is a really sweet little book that Tolkien wrote for his son about a puppy who bit the wrong wizard's trousers and became a toy by way of enchantment. He makes friends and travels to fascinating places before finding the wizard again and asking to be changed back to how he was before. This is a great book for children and adults alike!
Nice combination of classic Tolkien creativity and a touch of humor. This was very enjoyable read.
This is such a fun story! I can't believe that I hadn't read it before now. It is truly a delight to read!
