https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1768603.The_White_Tiger
You only have to read any Indian newspaper over the period of a week to know it.But I believe the author fails in the creation of Munna alias Balram Halwai, the protagonist, because his voice is totally out of character with the person.
Here, the character just becomes a mouthpiece for the author.Secondly, Adiga goes overboard in criticising India, so that some of his examples become rather extreme (the immediate one that comes to mind is the schoolteacher boozing and sleeping in the classroom).
They remain slaves because they can’t see what is beautiful in this world. That’s the truest thing anyone said…Even as a boy I could see what was beautiful in the world: I was destined not to stay a slave. The White Tiger is a grim, biting, unsubtle look at 21st Century India, stuck in the mire of a corrupt, cynical past, and debauching and slaughtering its way into a corrupt and cynical future, told by a working class fellow who, through ambition, intelligence, and a willingness to be utterly
Aravind Adiga - image from The GuardianWhile the subject matter is dark, the novel is fast-paced and engaging, drawing the reader in to the cares and concerns of the servant class.
Does Adiga really think the product of India is a black muck of corruption and the incoming tides of social change is pure light?
His entrepreneurial hotspot of Bangalore is clearly just as corrupt as the traditional world it is replacing.Adiga goes into some specifics on the sociopolitical structures in India.
Adiga shows his sharp satirical sense, toward the use of religion in Indian life again and again.
I'm not sure what I expected going into this book but it wasn't really this.
The idealistic part of me was a little horrified and upset by a lot of it but I think it's pretty realistic and really made me think about the servant/master dynamic in a way I hadn't considered before.
I'm just torn about whether to rate it four stars or five because the ending felt a little anticlimactic but at the same time I feel that endings are always the hardest to write and a lot of times end up falling short so...
I didn’t even hate him and I was completely indifferent towards him mainly because I felt that his character is artificial and inconsistent.
Every time I read a cynical work or a satire I feel that I have become a bit more intelligent.
I don’t think I have become intelligent by reading the book’s take on corruption and class inequalities in India.
In my view I don’t think his social commentary on Contemporary India comes as surprising to any Indian.
Maybe because they write books about India for foreign senses and maybe it’s because they are doing a social service by bringing the “real unknown India” into limelight.
He refers to ‘kissing some god’s arse’, an idiomatic expression that doesn’t exist in any North Indian language.
What we are dealing with is someone with no sense of the texture of Indian vernaculars, yet claiming to have produced a realistic text."and then devastatingly:"The paradox is that for many of this novel’s readers, this lack of verisimilitude will not matter because for them India is and will remain an exotic place.
This book adds another brick to the patronising edifice it wants to tear down."He's right, it didn't matter to me that a guy who doesn't speak English is represented as using hundreds of idiomatic English phrases.
In detailing Balram's journey first to Delhi, where he works as a chauffeur to a rich landlord, and then to Bangalore, the place to which he flees after killing his master and stealing his money, the novel examines issues of religion, caste, loyalty, corruption and poverty in India.
Ultimately, Balram transcends his sweet-maker caste and becomes a successful entrepreneur, establishing his own taxi service.
یكی از كارآفرینان هند، نامه‌ ای به نخست‌ وزیر می‌نویسد و در آن از تجربیات خود سخن می‌گوید.
داستان به صورت مجموعه‌ ای از نامه‌ هاست، و نگارنده در طول آن، خوانشگر را با مردمان، دین، آیین و ساختار سیاسی هند، آشنا می‌كند.
At one point, Balram tries to explain why the poor don't rise up to overwhelm their masters, and the best metaphor he can come up with is the chicken market in old Delhi, where live roosters sit powerless in cages beneath the carcasses of their freshly slaughtered brothers.
He writes:"Every day, on the roads of Delhi, some chauffeur is driving an empty car with a black suitcase sitting on the backseat.
Inside that suitcase is a million, two million rupees; more money than that chauffeur will see in his lifetime.
The "White Tiger of Bangalore" is cunning, fast & intrepid-- the perfect symbol for this perfect novel that reminds the reader of characters like Scarface & friends-- antiheroes all.
Coincidentally, it has hints of some of my favorite books/film: Ishiguro's "Remains of the Day", Indra Sinha's "Animal's People" and Danny Boyle's "Slumdog Millionaire." I wholly give FULL endorsement to this marvelously universal yet blissfully irreverent novel.
رواية حائزة على جائزة البوكر شرح مفصل لاوضاع الطبقات في الهند ونحن في القرن الحادي والعشرون.اعجبني وصف الطبقات الفقيرة بأن وضعها مثل "قن الدجاج" لا تخرج منه الا للذبح.فالعائلة منذ ان تولد يحدد لها مسارها ولا تستطيع ان تخرج من هذا المحيط الا بشيء خارق.وركز على نقطة ان الاديان العديدة والمتنوعة في الهند تستغل لتكريس هذه الطبقية او العبودية.صراع بين الظلام "المناطق الفقيرةاو الفقراء في منطقة ما" والنهار "مناطق الأغنياء" فالهند خليط عجيب بين الظلام والنهار.
فخلف عمارات وفنادق راقية.
تجد العشوائيات وبيوت الفقراء الذين غادروا قراهم للعمل في المدن.النمر الأبيض الذي لا يتكرر الا كل عقد .
I had never finished any contemporary novel, to put it bluntly, Who cares!..was my attitude towards the contemporary writers, by the time I had bought this novel.This was my first ever contemporary novel, mainly of an Indian origin author, which I read complete.
My heart began to race, My mother was not going to let them destroy her.”  Sunday Telegraph said about this book, “Blazingly savage and brilliant”.I’ll say only blazingly savage but never a brilliant book, because being an Indian, I could not really recognize, Balram as someone who was from the region of darkness and deprived.
I have hardly been able to put it down between sittings.The books is narrated via a letter from Balram Halwai, a slum-dweller-turned-driver-turned-murderer-turned-entrepreneur, to the Chinese President before the latters' trip to India and it is here that we follow Balram on an amazing journey through his life (I say "amazing" but undoubtedly typical of many in India).
Although the slums of India and the government / police etc curruption is nothing I haven't come across before in books or films I still found myself shocked on almost a page-by-page basis.
I liked the fact that there was no real hero in this book.
Best contemporary novel I've read this year.
Antidote for the pastel lyricism of most mainstream novels coming out of India and a wonderful social satire with savage bit.
Kind of like Terry Southern's best work if he hadn't been all weeded up and goofy.
An image from it that sticks with me is how Ghandi's image gets appropriated by the current Indian bureaucracy.
Whenever the narrator encounters the hanging Ghandi portrait he sees it as a symbol of "bribes work here, corruption at work".
Also poignantly captures the vast differences between the two Indias.
I've read this book while it was still unpublished manuscript and fell in love immediately... Because it gave me the same pleasure as Vikas Swarup's Q&A...
It is a provocative book as it paints an unflattering portrait of India as a society racked by corruption and servitude, exposing the country's dark side.
This grim world is far removed from the glossy images of Bollywood stars and technology entrepreneurs.--The authorThe entire novel is narrated through seven letters by Balram Halwai, an exceedingly charming, egotistical admitted murderer, to the Premier of China, who will soon be visiting India.Balram is an Indian man from an impoverished background, born into the 'darkness' of rural India.
This book is a satire, the narrator is hilarious at times.
Underneath the satirical element is the fact that India has social issues.
Adiga contrasts the "New India" with the "Old India", which he calls "the Darkness." He paints the Darkness as very gross and desperate, poverty-stricken, illiterate and superstitious.
However, I believe Adiga is giving a voice to the voiceless; the poor in India, those living in the Darkness, those people who are illiterate, suffering from leprosy etc., and it is important not to sweep societal problems under the rug.All in all a very enjoyable book.
Balram’s journey takes him from the village and menial jobs, to the job of driver-cum-servant for a rich master in Dehli and finally to running his own thieving company.
The rich entrepreneurs and politicians are, of course greedy, corrupt and conniving; but there is an amorality about the book which I found slightly concerning.
The satirical element is generally great fun with digs at the caste system, globalisation, political corruption, family ties and relationships between the sexes.
Balram’s focus is on himself, not his family or the community around him.
That being said parts are very funny.
بل هو عالم يعمل على حيونة الإنسان.على الرغم من أن الرواية هي مجرد حكاية، إلا أنها تبنى على قواعد صلبة من الواقعية والحقائق، صحيح أن هذا العمل عن الهند، لكنني لا أستطيع إلا أن أضعه في سياق أكبر، سياق كوني، عندما صور الكاتب والد بالرام وهو يموت بمضاعفات مرض السل، فقد كان يريد أن يمرر رسالة بشأن حقيقة أن ما يقارب ألف هندي معدم يموت كل يوم بسبب مرض السل، وعندما سئل الكاتب عن التفاصيل الكثيرة بشأن الأفعال الفاسدة في الهند كان يقول أجهدت نفسي لكي أتأكد تماما أن كل ما حكيته في الرواية يشير إلى الواقع الهندي بكل أمانة وكل ما حكيته في روايتي عن المستشفيات الحكومية البائسة وأماكن بيع الخمور وكل الأماكن الأخرى هي مما رأيته حقا أثناء تجوالي.الهند ما عادت تشبه غاندي، غاندي الذي تم تحويله إلى مجرد صنم أو بوذا، يتوجه إليه الفقير متضرعا: طوال حياتي وأنا أعمل أشبه بالحمار.
It detailed the journey of an “social entrepreneur” Balram Halwai's unconventional transformation, involving murder and embezzlement, from a low caste rural boy servant to a financially successful business owner and a beneficiary of India's globalization.
Bangalore, the Silicon Valley of India he escaped to, represented light.
Throughout the book the author repeatedly painted the negative sides of India outsiders might have overlooked, namely government corruption, dysfunctional parliamentary democracy, inadequate infrastructure, and seemingly undisruptable thousand-year-old caste system.
The most controversial point of the book revolved around Balram resorting to brutally murdering his gentle-mannered, Americanized master Ashok, in order to break out of the “Rooster Coop” he was trapped in.
Da Escuridão Nasce A LuzSabiam que na longínqua Índia:- Só a religião hindu tem 36 000 000 de deuses por conta?- Mergulhar no grandioso Ganges é uma aventura partilhada com pedaços de cadáveres, carne de búfalo putrefacta e variados tipos de fezes?- Os membros das famílias pobres dormem a monte, emaranhados numa rodilha humana?- ...............Após este curto preâmbulo, é fácil antever que esta não é, de forma alguma, a Índia espiritual de "Comer, Orar e Amar".
I was travelling one evening by train from Yeovil Junction in Somerset to Woking in Surrey and noticed that one of the passengers, a woman with long beautiful curly hair, was buried in 'The White Tiger'.
It is rather noisy but this was where the girl with curly hair was sitting and for the two hours of the journey she barely looked up.
A stunning first person narrative about a self-proclaimed murderer and entrepreneur. Balram Halwai, the complex narrator of the book, describes, in an obsessive, single-focued, unapologetic letter, his journey out of poverty from the Indian Darkness. It is a story about ambition, corruption, and power -- an amazing story about how one person in a country of servitude escapes his own station to become a man. Is he a visionary? Is he an iconoclast? Is he an amoral monster? The reader goes on a very unexpected journey and must ask him.herself each of these questions along the way.
Simply KickassDeserving of the accolades. Full review to come.
Why would a book like this win any award whatsoever? Sigh...
3,5/5. Αρκετά καλό και ενδιαφέρον βιβλίο, η ιστορία του γνωστή πλην στενάχωρη έτσι κι αλλιώς. Περίμενα ένα λίγο πιο δυνατό τέλος, η κορύφωση δεν ήρθε ποτέ. Γενικά πάντως μου άρεσε.
I feel like this is what I'm supposed to be reading while I listen to MIA and rock last season's mirrored "ethnic chic" from Urban Outfitters.
I did feel a bit pandered to.
I did feel a bit pandered to.
Oh, this book was okay.Fine, actually it was an entertaining and engaging rags-to-riches story about injustice and inequality in a changing India, but I am pretty mystified about what the big deal's supposed to be.
and if it hadn't really started to irritate me in the second half.
The novel's protagonist Balram, a poor countryboy, escapes his miserable, degrading life as a servant by becoming a murderer and a thief, and goes on to succeed as a businessman in Bangalore (no spoiler here: The text is about how all of this happened; what happened is clear pretty much from the beginning).
But it is the author's rightful anger (he once said in an interview: "It is important that writers like me try to highlight the brutal injustices of society") that also becomes a problem for the novel: The characters are highly emblematic and symbolic, some of them absolutely devoid of features that go beyond anything you would expect from "the rich magnate without a conscience", "the conservative, illiterate grandmother", or "the corrupt policeman".
In the past, when the West had its own master and servant classes, the paradoxes of that relationship were examined in the novel.
To that list, I guess we can add The White Tiger, for--to me--the major strength of this novel was the way it captured that peculiar dynamic between master and servant: a strange and noxious mix of love and loathing, fear and dependence.
Maybe I'm reading too much into this novel, but doesn't that master-servant relationship also speak of the current co-dependence between the West as employer and the East as workshop/call centre employee?
You learn a ton about India, but the author feeds it to you so smoothly and with so much humor, it goes down like really good chocolate cake.He also manages to write a book in epistolery form (it's six long emails written on six nights) that isn't a total bore.
It moves very quickly and yes, there actually IS a plot, and a good one at that.The plot isn't even the best part of this book, though (although he accomplishes the feat of making the action take place in past, present and future, like Proust — but easier to read and comprehend).
I don't have strong positive or negative feelings about this. I listened to the audiobook over the course of a few days, and while the narrator was good and the writing was at times funny and satirical, it left me sort of uninterested. I could imagine this being a good book to dive into and analyze in a class setting, but as a personal read I didn't find it very memorable. 2.5 stars
I have had this book on my shelf for a few years to read and finally decided to pick it up. I have a fascination with India - watching movies about India and reading books taking place in India. I really enjoyed reading this book, though at times I found it difficult to continue. The story of how the poor live in India is heartbreaking and sometimes hard to understand. I look forward to reading more from Aravind Adiga.
