https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126587.Manhattan_Transfer
And those migrants historically have come as much from the American hinterland as they have from across the ocean.
Once you arrived there, you had nowhere else to go but New York City.
Dos Passos begins and ends his novel in this forlorn non-place.
It is the entrance, for those already in America, into a world that was unique even within the uniqueness of America.
No one in this world is a native.
It is a place of power not beauty, of deceit rather than wit, of crowded isolation.
These migrants want what others already have in New York City.
I’m going to pull a GJ (Ginnie Jones) here and state: ”Manhattan Transfer is a kaleidoscopic portrait of New York City in the first two decades of the 20th century that follows the changing fortunes of more than a dozen characters as they strive to make sense out of the chaos of modern urban existence.”Yeah, so that’s really what you need to know if you, you know, want the breakdown.
Dos Passos captures the chaos and disorientation of trying to survive in an urban battlefield, with all its violence, interruptions, temptations, anonymity, stimuli, and speed by writing in a still experimental modern style of cut-ups, fragments, and stream of consciousness.
Manhattan Transfer's ferociously exciting to read, not only because it so accurately represents the physical sensations of modernity in just as innovative a manner as Joyce, Woolf, and Faulkner, but because its politics are critical -- if some readers protest against Dos Passos' sketchbook characterizations, keep in mind he's attempting to paint a portrait of a merciless capitalist system here and its effect on people across the social strata.
Hustle and bustle of the Big CityNew York a the start of the twentieth century. Several stories interwoven demonstrate the chaos of city life. Characters range from rich, former rich, and poor. A great mix reflecting the city at the time.
Manhattan Transfer fu pubblicato nel 1925, quando Dos Passos era ancora dalla parte di Sacco e Vanzetti.“Ciò che c’è di più tremendo a New York è che quando ne avete fin sopra i capelli, non sapete più in quale altro posto andare.
La sola cosa che ci rimane è girare e girare come lo scoiattolo in gabbia”In questa New York, madre abietta, spietata eppure splendida e seducente, nel cui ventre pullulano figlie e figli, schegge di vite e storie s’intersecano, si sfiorano e mai si toccano; creature in cerca della loro occasione.
Clarino non è sinonimo di clarinetto!
Il clarinetto discende dallo chalumeau, il clarino era una tromba!
"Se tem curiosidade de saber como é Nova Iorque, a que cheira...
então este é o livro indicado para si."— New York Herald TribunePois...
não tenho nariz para tanto...A narrativa é composta quase exclusivamente por diálogos entre as personagens que aparecem e desaparecem, em vários momentos das suas vidas.
São mais de meia centena, que me pareceram mortos-vivos; excepto uma que morreu logo no início.
Suponho que o objectivo é dar a conhecer Nova Iorque, no início do Século XX; a riqueza, a pobreza, a política, a guerra, os sindicatos, a bolsa, a lei seca.
E as pessoas; revoltadas, solitárias, mal amadas, infelizes...
Think of John Dos Passos’s New York glowing with promises that it never keeps.For every one of them and many others, the City is much more than a place, a conventional setting for the narrative, it is truly and fully a character, maybe the most important of all, for it determines the fate of the other characters, making them dependent, helpless, tragic.
Above suicides, lost loves, lost jobs, minor thefts and big larcenies, strikes, war, prohibition, the city blankly contemplates the struggle of generations, knowing so well that no one can truly leave.
Sottovento, arrivava odore di marcio dalle navi cisterna all’ancora, un poco inclinate da un lato, con la bandiera gialla della quarantena afflosciata all’albero maestro.«Darei un milione di dollari», disse il vecchio, appoggiandosi ai remi, «per sapere che cosa vengono a fare.»«Vengono a dare un’occhiata», rispose il ragazzo seduto al timone.
«Questo è il Paese delle opportunità, o no?»«Io so solo una cosa», disse il vecchio.
Ora non ci sono più alose, e quella gente là lo sa Dio da dove viene.»«È il Paese delle opportunità.»” Pubblicato nel 1925 negli Stati Uniti e nel 1932 in Italia dove appare ben sforbiciato soprattutto dai numerosi riferimenti anarchici nel testo.New York è maestosa e al tempo stesso misera.
Dos Passos indictment of the materialism and soulessness of turn of the century New York is told with neither sentiment nor heartlessness, but falls in a middle ground-dispassionate.
For instance, in the beginning the book,the child Ellen is born, and the novel carries her to a school- age.
Others appear briefly and then are never heard from again leaving a tantalizing void.On a peculiar note, I have never read a book where color is used in such an effective way.
At times it seems as if colors shine dimly on the story, rather like gels have been but in can lights.
Now that's a whole other kind of fiction.
Something to cherish and treasure.
It reads like a movie but the good kind.
It doesn't really have a plot instead it follows the lives of a few characters throughout the years in early 1900, through WW1 and right before the 1929 crash but you can feel it coming.
Dark and light, how the richs live and how the poors die.
It's a wonderful voyage into the past and makes you think about how we live now and how not a lot has changed really.
(This is also why nonfiction history books are way more fun when they narrow their focus.)Manhattan Transfer is to early 1900s New York as The Wire is to early 2000s Baltimore: a panoramic picture of the city, from the politicians at the top to the most hopeless castaways.
Dos Passos gets accused of a lack of people understanding, and of being a little cliched, but I think he's found interesting ways into each character - the self-hating gay guy, the suicidal failure, the drunk, they've all got a little something that makes them stand out.
Se dovessimo cercare la cornice di questo libro di Dos Passos potremmo partire proprio dalla primissima pagina, lì dove uno dei tanti protagonisti, sul traghetto che a breve lo sbarcherà a Manhattan, si rivolge a un ragazzo per chiedergli se ci vuole ancora molto ad arrivare.
Più volte in queste pagine si sentono echi dei grandi romanzi americani del periodo e di quello immediatamente successivo, da Fitzgerald a Yates passando per Steinbeck, e non tanto per lo stile, quanto per il fatto che "Manhattan Transfer" racconta in maniera così vivida la vita di tutti i giorni - tanto comune da essere così straordinaria - che ne esce uno dei tanti affreschi, forse il più completo, del XX secolo americano.Sono quattro stelle piene: non nascondo di aver fatto un po' di fatica a seguire tutte le trame così mescolate fra loro, ma la soddisfazione è stata anche tanta.
Anche se fin dall'inizio si capisce che non è possibile ricordare tutti i personaggi -forse ricordiamo tutte le persone sedute dietro di noi a un ristorante o che salgono e scendono dai tram?
Mi sembra tutto così moderno, così veloce, in contrapposizione alla lentezza europea di quel periodo, del resto non era un paese per vecchi neppure allora, ed è proprio qui che quella famosa citazione ha origine.
Ci sono spunti che si ritrovano poi in tanti romanzi e film successivi, per non parlare dell'ironia , così fresca dopo novant'anni: "Tornato ora, Capitano?"  "Sì, abbiamo preparato il mondo alla democrazia" Il barbiere attutì le parole sotto l'asciugamano surriscaldato.
For me, Manhattan Transfer was a different reading experience than I'm used to, but in a good way!
Looking deep into New York life, you never get a sense that you're standing still, in the moment.
Dos Passos' writing directly places you there, with fleeting looks at characters and detailed descriptions of the busy city.
The wide range of characters either succeed or fail tragicly (Bud's story got to me), and, ultimately, thats just the way the city goes.
Favourite Quote: The terrible thing about having New York go stale on you is that there's nowhere else.
https://www.dn.pt/edicao-do-dia/22-ju...
." and others since.John Dos Passos presents stories of some of the people who call this metropolis, Manhattan, home near the beginning of the twentieth century.
All these passages emphasize that "Manhattan Transfer" is a collective novel about the city of New York, about its shallowness, immorality, and grinds of the urban life.
The characters' lives only depict some of them.There are the dreams of new parents whose daughter, Ellen, is born at the opening of the novel.
There is also the other character whose story will span the novel, Jimmy Herf, whose path will cross that of Ellen.
edition read was four hundred pages and felt like it...then i think, this is ninety years-old, could do with endless annotations, and happens to be of the same vintage as my favourite hemingway story ('a clean, well-lighted place') which is a lot shorter, means more to me, and i like a lot...
Dos Passos has painted a picture of New York City from the Gilded Age to the 20's.
Using short prose-poems to begin each chapter, vignettes of people's lives, quotations from popular songs of the day, overheard conversations, newspaper headlines and more, we get a powerful portrait of the city.It's a portrait that could be considered anti-establishment.
World War I ("a great little war while it lasted") takes place offstage and is shown through its effects on the characters.
Prohibition-era crime occurs and Reds are deported.There's a lot of bleakness in Manahattan Transfer as relationships fail, people sink into poverty, and suicides take place.
Formal sicherlich ein Meisterwerk der Moderne, dem die Hörspielversion mit allerlei Effekten und Jazz- bzw. 20s AVantgarde gerecht werden wollte. Viele prominente Sprecher im Großstadtpanorama geben Charakteren Profil, die man samt und sonders nur nervig finden kann. Konnte keinen rechten Zugang zu niemand in diesem Kaleidodskop finden, etliche Lücken im Vergleich zum Roman tragen vielleicht auch dazu bei, dass vieles unmotiviert rüber kommt.
-Adelantado a su tiempo entonces, todavía llamativo en estas épocas.- Género. Novela.Lo que nos cuenta. La vida en Nueva York de un gran número de personajes a través de varias décadas, pero con la ciudad como protagonista, todos ellos ejemplos de las piezas individuales que hicieron de la ciudad y su sociedad lo que terminó siendo, en el sentido más positivo pero también en el más negativo.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
Now we are post credit-crunch this is probably a very good time to read this unusual American novel.
At times it was hard to believe that Manhattan Transfer is describing the New York of 80+ years ago, so contemporary did it sometimes feel to me.
Scott Fitzgerald, and Manhattan Transfer is, like the Great Gatsby, a book about New York and the American Dream.
If you know nothing more about it try the Amazon "Look Inside" facility, as this gives a good impression of what you are in for if you decide to read this fascinating novel.
The bottom line is (I think) the randomness of our lives, and how little New York cares for you, and how if you would just stop caring for it, and all it may promise, you'd be a damn sight better off.
I would prefer to teach Gatsby than Manhattan Transfer, because it's much more straightforward and digestible, but I think this is the better (and truer) book by quite a long stretch.
Para ello, la ciudad muestra sus tentáculos en las vidas que se cruzan y se disuelven, que juegan a la felicidad y se esmeran a dejarlo todo por cumplir cada uno de sus sueños; sueños que, dicho sea, se permiten en virtud de todo lo que una ciudad en crecimiento (como viene siendo Nueva York en la década de 1920).
Pero la ciudad no: ella sigue ahí, siempre, modificándose, creciendo.Manhattan Transfer viene siendo una novela que se centra en un periodo específico, en un lugar concreto que se muestra en sus esquinas y recovecos para dar cobijo a todo tipo de ilusiones y fracasos.
En este libro no hay un protagonista claro (Nueva York, quizás) sino una miríada de voces que se entrelazan a través del tiempo y de las que somos testigos durante pequeñas ventanas abiertas.
La estructura misma de la narración refleja a la perfección la vida frenética de la gran ciudad: los personajes pasan ante nuestros ojos una y otra vez, pero el número de ellos y la velocidad a la que ocurre todo nos deja confusos en más de una ocasión.
Las constantes interrupciones del relato funcionan como una especia de violencia que afecta tanto al lector como a los protagonistas.
Nunca se nos plantea nada de manera directa sino que vamos percibiendo los diferentes dobleces a través de gestos sugeridos y medias palabras.
Una voce nuova e diversa dalla generazione perduta.
Una voce dall'America della generazione perduta.
Solo in parte, perché, nonostante quella in mio possesso sia una traduzione celebratissima, non riesce a convincermi.
Non riesco a capire se il linguaggio immaginifico sia quello dell'autore o una somma di svarioni; come il vestito di Helene, che è descritto come color fiammingo e invece molto probabilmente è color fenicottero.Pazienza, un altro libro da mettere in elenco per quando avrò tempo di leggere in lingua originale.
Hello Everybodybeen meaning to tryManhattan Transfer for about 20 yearsManhattantold in a hundred or so very short storiesthat connect,don't connectinter connectand re connectdon't even tryto think of this as one story its hundreds of plotseach with a life of its owncharacterscome and gosome appearnever to be seen againsome appear to be seen fifty or more pages latereasy to lose trackwhere you arebut it's almost as ifit does not matteropen the bookto any pagefind yourself sucked in to a little storyyours trulymac
Here's someone I wanted to read for ages and finally got around to--happy that I did.
Dos Passos falls into the semi-classic lefty bind of making what he's ostensibly critiquing also seem awesome: his descriptions of the interiors of the wealthy make them seem amazing, even with the smart set throwing up in wastepaper baskets in the midst of these interiors.
The novel sort of makes you spit out cliches in describing it, as it is in fact big, sprawling, Joycean, less about characters than about the setting, New York drunk, etc.
Let a thousand vaguely Benjaminian papers be born!
A Babel of voices. The reality of a whole made from a myriad of parts. Using the many stories of a wide assortment of characters to make a portrait of New York City in the early years of the 20th century, its device of character snapshots to tell the story reminded me most of Camilo Jose Cela's novel The Hive, which does the same thing for Madrid. Not as ambitious as the USA Trilogy, but it is considered by some to be Dos Passos's greatest work.
Едно голямо смело платно от крачки, дим, аромати, очаквания, съдби, зарязани завинаги в някои от страниците герои... Едновременно динамичен и пасивен Ню Йорк, описан не с думи, а с къси удари на четка
Avendo avuto la fortuna di visitare New York, percepisco alla perfezione come ogni pagina di questo libro riveli ancor oggi gli “splendori e miserie” di una città così multiforme e straordinaria che non si può non idolatrare, ma nemmeno non rimanerne inorriditi.
Parole che si fanno odori, calore, luce, vetro, rumori…, trascinando con sé le esistenze umane più disparate, accomunate dall’accalcarsi febbrile nella “città che sale” (per dirla con Boccioni).New York è l’inferno e il paradiso, è la terra promessa e l’infrangersi dell’ultima speranza, è madre e amante.
