https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26721568-the-problem-with-forever
Maybe I could have read two novels in that amount of time, but The Problem with Forever touched my heart so deeply I’m sure I’ll be rereading it again in a couple of years.It’s magnificent.
The entire story is extremely well-written and convincing, but Mallory – also known as ''Mouse'' – will make any reader feel for her.I couldn’t stop thinking about her.
I didn’t want to stop reading this book, because I didn’t want to leave Mallory.
She actually unconsciously makes the readers feel like their presence alone can help her.It’s incredible.
Don't even bother trying to guard your heart as you start this book, because Jen is going to take sandpaper to that measly wall you've built, and you'll be laid bare.
I love it that Jen wrote about a real, broken girl, who shows us that strength can come in "mousy" packages.
There are many kinds of strengths.
I could not have been happier watching Mallory's growth throughout her journey.AND DON'T GET ME STARTED ON RIDER.
My heart...my heart!Please read this book.If you loved stories like Perfect Chemistry, Speak (no, this is not a rape story), and Pushing the Limits, then you will love The Problem With Forever.
And I got to the point where I couldn’t care less about the characters and when one of them died (what a shocking surprise… it was a latino) I was like meh.Overall, it was an overdramatic book.Drama #1: Mallory overcoming her fears after years of therapy all while dealing with her past.Drama #2: Mallory dealing with the feeling of being a replacement to her adoptive parents’ dead daughter and living under her shadow.Drama #3: Mallory re-connecting with her old best friend, savior, love of her life and all the memories that come with him.Drama #4: Rider’s girlfriend –and also the mean girl.
::: FULL REVIEW NOW POSTED :::   "I know you might not believe it, but I'm going to keep you safe forever..."  This was a gorgeous high school romance that brought me right back to the intensity of falling in love for the first time. I've loved Jennifer Armentrout's writing ever since I read Wait For You back in 2013 and when I heard about this new book, I just couldn't resist diving it. I feel like there's something particularly special about childhood friends-to-lovers stories -- I love the s
This was a gorgeous high school romance that brought me right back to the intensity of falling in love for the first time.
All the emotions, thrills, and intensity of falling in love for the first time made my heart race as Rider and Mallory slowly began to acknowledge their feelings for each other.
Even though they start as just friends, it's quite obvious to the reader that Mallory is the girl he cares most about and nobody is going to stop him from spending time with her.
☠ Well, This is awkward. X__x “My name is Mallory...Dodge.” I drew in a deep breath, speaking to no one. “And I like...I like reading. And I don’t like...I don’t like who I am.” ☠ Pffft you got that one thing right, Mickey mouse. I don't ....ahh.....don't like you....either. I'm sorrry....but....after a thousand ellipses....you mooning over.....what's his name.....Jake or Josh or Ryder....I'm not sure....algorithms look...more..........appealing....to me now. I'd have considered this a minor det
You see, Mallory/Mouse(What's with the animal nicknames and JLA) can't speak due to PTSD.
The Problem with Forever has so many problems that it would take forever to point them out.>>>>Horrible pun of the day #1.--But, First things first, Lets congratulate JLA for getting a beautiful artsy cover for her book!
☠ I've read her other contemporary romances under the pseudonym J.Lynn and I loved them then.
I'm not sure how I'll feel about them now but this I can guarantee they were definitely more satisfying than The Problem with forever which took me like forever and ever to read.
It just had aaall the right things, like delicious food, tons of diversity, adorable tragic damaged cinnamon roll characters, and a bit of bleeding (ALL THE GOOD BOOKS HAVE A BIT O' BLOOD) and did I mention I'm feeling all the things???
Mallory's adoptive parents are Latino (I think) and Rider is half Puerto Rican, and most of the secondary characters are POC too!The writing is just absolutely delicious...and addictive!
I am such a magnet to books about tragically abused and suffering characters who need my love.
2.5 stars "I couldn't put my finger on the exact moment I'd become a different Mallory. Maybe because it wasn't just a moment but more of a combination of hundreds, even thousands of them. [...]And it was knowing that I could still be...still be afraid of everything, but not letting that fear stop me from living." I sighed as I stared at my laptop screen.Do I really want to do this? I thought, tousling my hair sexily because I am a bookworm and bookworms are secretly hot as fuck once they ditch
"I couldn't put my finger on the exact moment I'd become a different Mallory.
I sighed as I stared at my laptop screen.Do I really want to do this?
Do I really want to bash a book that, in all honesty, appeals to my values?Yes!
Like that other JLA book I reviewed.
I flexed my fingers and began to type:Take a shot whenever Rider's fucking grin and dimples are mentioned.
Bonus points!Ten shots when you realize Rider is simply Daemon Black/Cam/every JLA love interest in different clothes and with differently colored eyes and hair.Twenty shots when this line shows because I didn't pay for an E.L. James metaphor:
“Forever was something we all took for granted, but the problem with forever was that it really didn't exist.”  I picked The Problem with Forever with quite an expectations. Jennifer L. Armentrout was one of my fav authors. I've read almost every book of her. But yet this book was .. just not for me. If you have read the reviews of this book, you must've noticed everyone saying that this book is not our usual fun and quirky JLA read. Well I agree with them, this book really was an exception bu
Especially the Main Characters Sorry but i wouldn't have cared if they didn't get a HEA or a HFN or Rider or Mallory died, seriously I was unable to even like them.
Every single of side character was my fav one, they literally made me read this book till the end.
Even i cried for a side character, if you have read this book you would know what i am talking about.
✏ The writing, main I wa shocked to see the writing how much JLA's writing has been changed in year since i have last read her books.
Another amazing book by JLA.
Really couldn't put it down and I ended up finishing it in half a day.
Although this book was different then how she usually writes it was just as epic.
The two main characters, Mallory and Rider were perfectly imperfect and that made them perfect in my eyes.
As scared kids Rider was Mallory's rock, her support system, and her protector.
She was his silent 'Mouse' who patched him up when he was hurt, appreciated and loved him for just being him.
Loved this story, really worth the read.
Perhaps it's the fact that I read wonderfully long, fleshed out, beautifully written fantasies now, maybe it's because I'm SO DAMN PICKY with my contemporaries, or perhaps it's just a case of 'it's not you, it's me.' For those of you who adore JLA, I'm sure this will be a home run for you.
I mean, guys, she is the author who made me the crazy with want after a crying desperate plea of love perilista I am today-I didn't even know I had this type of masochistic bone in my body (I had read these types of books my whole life but had never realized it was an addiction until JLA) before her, and she shaped my GR name, my reading style, and my whole world.
I just didn't like the execution of it.This is the story of Mallory, a foster kid who doesn't speak much because of PTSD and conditioning from her previous foster home.
They are happy to see each other, but their time in that horrible house has left it's mark.I think Mallory's story was an important one to tell, social anxiety stemming from her issues is a tough subject.
It's important for teens to have books they can relate to so they don't feel alone, and this is a perfect one to hand to a teen who has issues with public speaking/ptsd.
The only contemporary romance I have ever been able to finish. Honestly, so not surprised.... I mean, is it even possible for me to dislike something written by JLA? I keep waiting for it to happen, but uh NOPE. Def not possible. Check out my full review here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z1gCf...xoxoxo
What is 'The Problem with Forever'?The fact it felt like forever for me to finish this book.
“Words were not the enemy or the monster under my bed, but they held such power over me.
They were like the ghost of a loved one, forever haunting me." The Problem With Forever wasn't a bad book at all, but it wasn't good.
It was good for the first 40% - I can say that from the fact I had a smile on my face and couldn't put it down once I started reading it last night until my eyes b
I would like to read a book about the side characters - particularly Ainsley and Hector.
I also wasn't that shocked when (view spoiler)[Jayden was shot, I presumed that it was be Mallory who was short and that would lead to Rider breaking up with her for her "safety".
(hide spoiler)] I was honestly just annoyed by the weakest main characters I have yet to read about.
Rider wasn't as bad as Mallory, but he was still bad.
So…. This is the author everyone seems to rave about, huh? I have so many book friends who love this author and love her other books. But in all honesty, I don’t see the appeal. I found nothing extraordinary about her writing and nothing made it stand out to me. Maybe it’s me. Or maybe this isn’t her best work; maybe this specific book doesn’t reflect her writing abilities. I think (and am HOPING) it’s the latter.What didn’t work? What I found incredibly annoying was first and foremost the actua
Or maybe this isn’t her best work; maybe this specific book doesn’t reflect her writing abilities.
It was like the author was trying really hard to make the reader cry by forcing this awful backstory on the MCs. It didn’t make me cry.
But you know what YA book with a heroine that has a really tragic backstory made me cry my eyes out?
I won’t write this author off and plan on reading her other books.
But if they are anything like this one, I think I’ll need to just accept her writing isn’t for me.
Ugh.My video review can be found here: https://youtu.be/dNqFBAfp1bQ
I think that all of us, at the end of the day, just want to be real and want to be loved. —Jennifer L. Armentrout Before I begin, I would like to let you know that this essay is going to be less than a holistic review and more like a subjective character analysis. Why? Because honestly, The Problem with Forever doesn't have that much of a plot to evaluate or reminisce about. Still, despite its generally uneventful content, I think that everyone with a beating heart should read this book.The Prob
Still, despite its generally uneventful content, I think that everyone with a beating heart should read this book.The Problem with Forever mainly revolves around Mallory Dodge (aka Mouse) and Rider Stark, two teenagers with a seriously horrible past.
However, as we all know, things are not always as they seem.Since I've always been interested in psychology, I liked that The Problem with Forever featured a character-driven story.
Nevertheless, his devotion to Mallory was something worthy of emulation.Besides the aforementioned protagonists, The Problem with Forever featured a diverse cast of supporting characters.
Emotional. Hopeful. Inspiring.  Growing up in foster care, neglect and abuse are no strangers so Mallory Dodge and Rider Stark. As Six year olds, they were each other’s solaces in a world where they were failed by the adults around them. Years later freedom comes as a result of a particularly harrowing night, but with it, a separation and end to the home they found in one another.It’s not until four years later, as seniors in high school that they re-enter each other lives. There are some powe
Growing up in foster care, neglect and abuse are no strangers so Mallory Dodge and Rider Stark.
I was moved by JLA’s descriptions, her emotive style of writing and the overwhelming admiration I have for Mallory and Rider.
I always feel as though I’m in safe hands when it comes too JLA and YA.
The reticence I usually feel about the sub genre dissipated within the first few pages of The Problem with Forever.
There is such depth in both the storyline and characters, the only problem I had was putting it down.
Reading the prologue alone, I knew that I was stepping into a book that would forever be ingrained in my heart.
But what Mallory could never had predicted was running into Rider Stark on her first day going back to public school.
Rider was a foster child who had grown up in the same house as Mallory.
Rider stepped back into Mallory's life and became her protector all over again.
I loved how it felt like I knew Mallory and Rider inside out, especially with the flashbacks to their younger years.
The Problem With Forever also contained moments with Mallory's best friend who I absolutely adored!
★★★ 3.5 Stars ★★★The Problem with Forever is a story that touches on the lives of two high school seniors who are both products of the foster care system, and who share a bond that is deep and unbreakable.Mallory Dodge is one of the lucky ones, and after a horrific childhood where the only person who showed her any love was her foster brother, she is now living with caring and understanding adoptive parents.
I loved the hero, Rider - he was a fiercely loyal and protective young man, who was confident and outgoing on the outside, but with deep insecurities and an extreme amount of guilt on the inside.
“Forever wasn’t pain and grief. Forever wasn’t a problem. Forever was my heartbeat and it was the hope tomorrow held. Forever was the glistening silver lining of every dark cloud, no matter how heavy and thick it was. Forever was knowing weakness didn’t equate to an eternity of them”  Life taught me that sometimes you have to protect your heart from beautiful things because when they break or shatter or when I finally look at them up close and find an irreparable damage, it breaks my heart. T
I was very cautious that even though I wanted to embrace the characters close to my heart, be involved with their story and feel their emotions, my instincts told me not to get too attached because for some reason, I knew it was going to be tragic.
I was wrong though.And honestly, even if I tried to control my emotions and even if the book did end tragically (which it didn’t, just partly because (view spoiler)[*Jayden!
Both Mallory and Rider but Mallory especially are admirable characters and their story is one that I would cherish and probably read over and over, possibly forever.
5 Stars!!Excellent writing, This is my first read from this Author for this genre.
This is a story about a boy and a girl under ten who survived being in the foster care system.
This is their story 5 years later after a night of terror and seperation.
They reunite and find each other in different places and how one gets the helped needed and the other not.
I recommend this read for all to understand when a human life is broken there is help.
In order to get help that person needs to be willing to want it.
This is a story that's going to stick with me for a long time. It was such a beautiful contemporary! My heart was completely shattered from all the feels, but it was totally worth it.Mallory was a wonderful protagonist. Rider was incredible. Ainsley was the best and I wish all YA novels had a character like her. It was brilliantly cute and adorable, yet also realistic and dealt with some serious issues. It was upfront and honest, but a beautiful read. I would highly recommend.
pero como vas pasando las paginas es justamente OTRA NOVELA JUVENIL DE ROMANCE, primer punto malo, esta novela sigue las mismas características de las novelas con esta temática, eso significa que esta llena de clichés, uno tras otro y parece que no tendrán fin, lo que la convierte en una historia predecible.Creo que un gran error que se comete es precisamente el romance, con Mallory la protagonista pudo simplemente escribir un solo libro para contar su propia historia dramática, una donde nos hablara de sus feas vivencias de la niñez, de sus traumas, de la superación, etc.
Life was like doing this speech. It wasn't necessarily about the end result, but more about trying.  This book is so not the typical Jennifer L. Armentrout style. The Problem with Forever is a story about lessons of life, love, family, and reflection on our society nowadays. I know this may sound very serious and stone-cold cruel, but that's the way it is. We all need to accept and endure it. The story mainly focuses on Mallory (Mouse), a quiet girl who is deemed as a mute in school because of
The Problem with Forever is a story about lessons of life, love, family, and reflection on our society nowadays.
The story mainly focuses on Mallory (Mouse), a quiet girl who is deemed as a mute in school because of her post-traumatic childhood experience, and Rider, a seemingly open-minded, extroverted guy who actually bears some unspeakable scars on his stained soul.
Rider had said nothing lasted forever, but some things, some scars, ran too deep to ever fade away.
This book lets us know that there are actually two kinds of forever.
The bad kind of forever lingered like a shadow or ghost.
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to Harlequin (UK) Limited and NetGalley.)  “He had been the sole reason I survived the house we’d grown up in.”  This was a YA contemporary romance about two teenagers raised in the foster system.Mallory was an okay character and she was really lucky to end up with the parents she ended up with. She’d obviously had a pretty rough childhood, and I could see why she tried to keep quiet most of the time, but
This was a YA contemporary romance about two teenagers raised in the foster system.Mallory was an okay character and she was really lucky to end up with the parents she ended up with.
We then got a romance developing between Mallory and Rider, but the pace in this was really slow, which made it seem like nothing was really happening.The ending to this was okay, and things worked out pretty well in the end, the pace just let this book down though.6.5 out of 10
I wanted to step in for Mallory so many times and speak up for her, clear things up, right the wrongs. And I LOVED Ryder!! He was classic!! I picked this book because I was drawn to the cover and the the title, I'm so glad I did!! Fantastic book!!
4 Ser Real STARS Antes de empezar la reseña sólo voy a comentar algo que aprendí y quedé anonada, toda una vida siendo una ignorante y engañada  ¿Cómo no me dijeron antes que el puertorriqueño era un idioma?
porque al parecer es diferente del español que según aquí puede que sólo se hable en España y entonces yo tampoco hablo español hablo mexicano.What the Fuck?
THE REVIEWWhy this book?Jen (in her Unicorn Bubble)’s review made me want to read itWhat I thoughtThis book will always be in my heart.
Mallory and Rider were two characters who were emotionally abused who lost eachother and found one another years later.
I listened to the audiobook so listening to Mallory try to talk was hard for me, it was heartbreaking.
I loved how Rider was always there for her when they were younger and when the see eachother again years later.
I got to say Rider was my favorite character he was absolutely swoonworthly.
Overall a must read!
Armentrout es una de mis autoras favoritas, y en cuanto me enteré de que llegaba a España este libro, no pude ser más feliz.
Y es que encima he amado cada palabra desde el principio de la historia.Es un libro donde se tratan temas peliagudos, como el maltrato infantil, el abandono y sus efectos a largo plazo y ¡qué bien lo ha hecho Jennifer!
Ha creado a unos personajes redondos, donde podemos ver como sus circunstancias de niños les han afectado en su vida.
He amado la historia, he amado a sus personajes y lo más importante, lo que quería mostrar la autora, lo ha hecho de 10.
Tender moments accentuate the tragic underpinning from which the protagonists’ lives have been built from—a past riddled with abuse, days paralyzed by fear, and a stubborn sense of unworthiness that has followed two foster kids over the years.
Mallory Dodge and Rider Stark grew up in a foster home where fear, alcohol, drug use and violence were everyday things they saw and experienced.
Mallory fears she can’t overcome her issues, she realizes she can’t depend on Rider to always make things right.
I loved the multiracial characters, the exploration of meaningful issues, the blazing, unstoppable chemistry between Mallory and Rider, and the many moving moments in their story.
