https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8537.Nerve
This, the second novel by Dick Francis, was first published in 1964, and like most of his books, this one is set in the world of British horse racing.
But underneath, he's clever and resourceful and he has a steely resolve that does not bode well for anyone who would do an injustice to Finn or to someone he cares about.As the book opens, Finn is a struggling young steeplechase jockey trying to work his way up the ladder to better mounts and more success.
But this one is spot-on and makes me glad that I decided to work my way through his novels again.
"Give me a horse and a race to ride it in, and I don't care if I wear silks or...or pajamas.
All I care about is racing...racing...and winning, if I can."Only two years into a career as a steeplechase jockey, Rob has a reputation for being able to handle tough horses--the ones with the bad tempers, the ones who can barely make it round the course without taking a tumble.
"But for some reason the wayward animal and I got on very well." Then Axminster's top jockey takes a bad fall and Rob is drafted to ride the stable's most promising chaser, Template.
A big thank you to openlibrary.org for making this available as an eBook.
Sadly...
due to the nature of copyright law, this and many of Mr. Francis' earlier books are unavailable for the Kindle at this time.Once again Dick Francis brings to vivid life the risky business of an amateur steeplechase jockey.
The first time is happenstance.
The second is coincidence and the third is enemy action.
This was Mr. Francis' second thriller and his third published book.
His first book being his autobiography as the Queen Mother's jockey.
His first thriller and second book was Dead Cert.
I love this guy's characters.
Although his books are peppered with sentences like "I shivered from something other than the cold," I'm simply not bothered by it, because his characters are so great and the plot is so fun.
Maybe my having started reading him before I had any training in writing allows me to get along so nicely; anyhow I'm extremely pleased to have holed up with this book for two days, neither wanting to stop nor feeling compelled to force myself to stop.
The last time I read a book in two days was probably the last time I read Dick Francis.
I don’t know that it’s entirely necessary to the plot but it is fun to have a little love interest to break up the horse world and mystery parts as well as show a different side of the main character to the reader.The dialogue and plot are tight which keeps the plot on track and moving along quickly.
What I think I enjoyed a lot about this book was that it wasn’t a ‘murder’ mystery but yet it unfolded like it was a murder mystery if that makes sense.I also really enjoy Francis’s descriptions of the horse racing world.
The attention to detail is enormous, unlike some "golden age" mysteries with plotholes you could drive a horse trailer through.It's interesting that so many of Francis' bad guys are unbalanced, as if the tendency to do evil implied a form of madness (an idea the main character considers throughout the book).
I know that there has been a hot debate of recent years re:who actually wrote the books, Francis or his wife, but whoever did, the majority of them make riveting reading.
Easily the best of the 20+ Dick Francis novels I have read thus far. This was the 2nd novel written by Dick Francis (1964) and it is obvious he had improved and honed his writing skills during the 2 year hiatus following his first novel Dead Cert in 1962. Francis was at the top his game with this one. A classic, well-written punchy mystery using the British horseracing industry as a backdrop, and a novel that established Francis as a serious literary player and kick-started a hugely successful 50+ year writing empire.
I'm reading Dick Francis' novels according to their published date, so this was his second mystery novel. I must say that compared to his first, "Dead Cert," one can tell that his writing has became better. It seems that he writes with more ease and adds more depth to the characters, scenes and the plot. I've enjoyed reading this book a lot and definitely recommend it to all Francis' afficionados.

I loved this book so much I read it in one sitting. I'm definitely going to be reading more Dick Francis books in the future I feel.
Read this many, many years ago. I could always depend on a Dick Francis novel for a quick, entertaining read.
I thoroughly enjoyed this page-turner of a crime thriller.
I was aware that Dick Francis wrote horse racing related crime thrillers but had never read one before.
The book evokes the sixties quite well, though this was not its purpose.The story begins with a death and Mr Francis sets the background nicely.
The story then races along (sorry!), becoming more exciting as it goes - a bit like a horse race really.I knew little about the world of racing but after reading this I feel I know a bit more, so it was somewhat educational as well as very entertaining.
Finalist 1964 Gold Dagger Award.Racing related thrillers - Robert Finn watches a fellow steeplechase jockey blow his brains out in the parade ring at Dunstable races, just before a race.
As Finn and the other jockeys cope, some better than others, with the stress of their jobs, other incidents lead him to conclude that someone is trying to destroy the lives of jockeys all over England.
Finn is not the average jockey.
A losing streak that lasts weeks threatens his job until he takes it upon himself to do a little sleuthing, and uncovering the identity of the culprit.
Now, Finn wants his revenge, and he takes his time setting it up.
Nerve was British crime writer Dick Francis's second novel, and the one where he first started to perfect his formula: A likable, underestimated working-class hero unraveling a mystery in a world that involves horses. For some people, one Francis is enough, but over the years I read and enjoyed dozens of the author's books. There's something deeply satisfying about seeing the underdog triumph against powerful, arrogant adversaries, and Francis made an entire career out of this simple concept. Nerve is an excellent place to start, as are For Kicks, Odds Against, Flying Finish, Whip Hand, and many others.
Great book... VERY easy read! My Grandma Judy, who is an AVID reader recommended it to me. I am really glad she did! I was thoroughly entertained from page one, it was totally clean, and the murder/mystery plot was both intruiging and fullfilling. Set in England, it was fun to interpret English words like 'bonnet' for the 'hood' of a car, etc... Now I want to shake hands with a jockey and go bet on a Steeplechase!! :)
NERVE - ExFrancis, Dick - 2nd bookMysterious accidents start happening to jockeys, one man is found shot dead, while another is found with a broken leg. When Robb Finn begins investigating, he finds himself caught up in a world of violence and twisted envy.Another great Dick Francis book. Interesting and exciting. In this book, the protagonist is in love with his cousin who is a singer of madrigals.
I love Dick Francis mysteries. The main characters are fallible, but committed to a code of honor they will not break no matter what pressure is brought to bear. They are resourceful, persistent and unwilling to compromise with evil. They care passionately about the rights of others and defend them. And there's almost always a connection to horse racing.
I love Dick Francis books. I read most of them during high school and college, and now I'm slowly working my way through them again. I think this is probably where I got my addiction to cool, tough, laconic underdog heroes. I don't know who invented that trope, but Francis sure does it well.
January 1, 1985
Very good plot loved reading it again
Took half the book to get to the actual mystery part...
Gradually Rob discovers that his problems, as well as the problems of the other riders, are all the work of a malevolent TV host who hates successful jockeys and wants to bring them down.Dick Francis writes well, especially for the thriller/mystery genre.
There's a lot to like about "Nerve", overall.However, I thought the main plot (evil TV host tries to undermine successful jockeys) was a little hard to swallow.
Again, I think the actions of the TV host were harder to swallow because of Francis's success in depicting a normal, banal world, which made those actions seem more outlandish and unreal in comparison.Also, there was a subplot about Rob's love for his first cousin that I found a little unpleasant.
Dick Francis was well-known and well-loved for his taut, tightly-plotted mysteries, most of them set in or around the world of horse-racing.
But when Rob takes a bad fall, then finds himself atop a string of slow, unresponsive horses -- several of them favorites to win -- he realizes that he, too, has fallen victim to whoever is trying to ruin jockeys.
As I think about all of his books (yes, this review covers all of his books, and yes I've read them all) I think about a moral ethical hero, steeped in intelligence and goodness embroiled in evil machinations within British horse racing society - either directly or indirectly.
The heroes aren't always horse jockies, they can be film producers, or involve heroes engaged in peripheral professions that somehow always touch the horse racing world.But more than that, Francis's heroes are rational human beings.
The hero's thoughts reveal a vulnerability that is touching, while his actions are always based on doing the right thing to achieve justice.
With Rob he feed doped sugar cubes to his horses just before the start of each race so they were sluggish and then Rob suddenly looked like a rider who had lost his nerve.
The horses were unusually sluggish, and that there was something more sinister attempting to sabotage him, he checked with the stable lad with the horse in all his 28 sluggish horses to discover they were consistently givensugar cubes by Kempt the TV presenter.
The malicious, spikeful and very dangerous TV presenter feed non doped sugar cubes to other horses as well to cover his tracks.Rob in the end sends written statements exposing his crimes of malicious gossip and sabotage.
I have been a Dick Francis fan for many years, which is not the same as being a mystery fan, as I read few of them.
The authenticity he brings to everything set around the track just leaps off the page.
I actually like many of these earlier books better than the later ones when he had perfected his craft because of that closeness to the track and the horses.
Give me Francis and his characters' ability to see a thing through to the end.
This has an excellent A-plot, in which Rob Finn, a struggling jockey from a family of musicians, is the target of a plot to undermine his career.
This book is impossible to put down starting from the first paragraph, in which a jockey shoots himself in front of Rob. The B-plot, in which Rob tries to court his true love who won't marry him because they're cousins, is less successful.
Francis is a bit hit-or-miss with romance.
This one never quite worked for me - Joanna's "totally cousins" objection seemed a bit ridiculous and lampshading it didn't help.
But the slow disintegration of Rob's career is nailbitingly readable, even though there's no physical jeopardy until about halfway through.
Then he happens to be in the right place at the right time when a fellow jockey takes a bad fall and breaks his leg.
Rob is hired to ride those jobs while the other jockey recovers.
After he takes a spill as well, he endures a period when every horse he rides is sluggish.
I think this is one of my favorites of the Dick Francis books I've read.
I've read enough now to know that Rob would get himself in a horrible fix that would provide the time to think about what was really going on.
Francis' second novel takes the successful formula from the first (male jockey who is a bit of an underdog but comes from a background of both discreet wealth and with an upbringing which bestowed a steely resolve in our hero).The difference here though is that the case is hugely entertaining.
Why Britain's leading jockeys all suffering career-threatening fates?
Rob Finn falls foul too but sets about finding out why.The depiction of a man driven is well realised and the characters are all beautifully drawn.
The love story which seems like a secondary interest at the beginning evolves nicely over the course of this tautly-paced thriller.Highly recommended.
Robert Finn is a fairly new steeplechase jockey.
Other jockeys in his group are having troubles: one shoots himself, one loses his job because of rumours he's giving tips, one can't get a job as he's been late a few times, and the best jockey of all breaks a bone in his leg.
Then his mounts begin to lose, and there's a rumour circulating that he's lost his nerve.
The last quarter of the book is quite exciting, with a torturous kidnapping, painful but valiant recovery, and a plan to get back as the person who had destroyed so many jockeys.
