https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30572.The_Genius_And_The_Goddess
For thinking that either the files are readable - most are not, we're talking files that pre-date even MS DOS - or that fame and fortune await if I even manage to open the blighters.)This book...this book...I read in Mozambique, in love and in lust and completely, absurdly infatuated with my delinquent, mendicant lifestyle and utterly terrified by the sneaking suspicion that it would sooner or later end in disaster (I suppose you could say it did, or it didn't, depending on which end of the conformity-to-convention spectrum you choose to sit).Since I can't remember tiny iota of what Huxley wrote, other than that his words left me profoundly shaken as well as stirred, here are the collected quotations I stored and today managed to resurrect....Oh yes, and you can poke fun at my out-of-date (like the files) method of quoting, as well."...the muses are the daughters of memory.".
Alternately crushed and ecstatic, Rivers finally comes out of his funk; and circumstances take an odd turn, leaving him to wonder at this early encounter late in his life.I will continue to read Huxley and like him, but he is no longer the guru I once thought of him as being when I myself was equally torn and conflicted about love, wondering whether it would ever "happen" to me.
A brief attempt at capturing human ecstasy - Huxley captures the difference between loving out of obligation and involuntary adoration. As much as we try to create the person we are and are to become, the deep-rooted elements of our personalities develop subconsciously and beyond our control. This novel may be short but is a holistic exploration of sensuality and sexuality and freedom and containment from the perspective of a man who tries to be more than just a man. Most quotable book, like, ever.
Absolutely loved this book. Beautiful examination of what it means to be human. Has taken the place as my favorite book I've ever read.
This book had a Lolita feel, only in reverse. You will see what I mean when you read it.The major themes, as far as i remember as this was a while ago, are the results of a sheltered lifeand dedicating oneself to education alone, neglecting personal experience. It is also about doingeverything in order to please someone else, namely your parents. I have never read anyone describe a sex scene in such a manner, but it is to be expected.
Told conversationally and in recollection over the course of one evening, we learn of the impact made to John Rivers' life and universe when he experiences love, passion and devotion to a woman-embodied goddess being.Layers of delirious and delicious insight pour forth from Huxley's writing, leaving you tickled, delighted, bemused, charmed and awed.
This story has some truly funny moments with richly developed characters you will miss once the novella is done.Don't deny yourself another moment, Huxley fan or not.
However a cascading chain of events that ultimately culminates in John Rivers having an illegitimate and raging affair with Katy Maartens, shatters the former's inner peace, quiet and conscience.
How both Rivers and Katy assuage, reconcile and remedy this unpardonable sin forms the heart and core of the book.This tumultuous collision between the pure Christian values of John Rivers and the carnal passions of Katy Maartens is also revealing of the opinions nursed by Huxley on religion, rebellion and reason.
Huxley ultimately leaves it to his reader to make the final choice of either to approve or disapprove the contradictory act of John Rivers.
In this much shorter novel we begin with a man child of the same outlook and over-dependence on his mother, who learns to be more than a priggish momma’s boy.John Rivers leaves graduate school to become an assistant to the brilliant genius Professor Henry Marteens.
Initially he seems to be little more than an observer of this odd if highly intelligent family and handily deals with the teen-age daughter of the of house who develops a huge crush on John..Except… Except he falls into a passionate if remote, unspoken love of his hostess Mrs. Kathey Marteens; The Goddess of our story.

As a reader you sympathise with all of them and by the time you finish the book you feel as intimate with them as if you are a member of the family.(view spoiler)[- The genius and his parasitic personality, always fixed on absorbing another's energy.- The goddess who sinned in action but not really in essence.- The unwitting and vulnerable youth who has the experience of passion thrown upon him.- The sin that is blurred between black and white.- The punishment for both sinners: death for the seducing "Eve" and eternal guilt for the seduced raw boy being the only one left who knows the truth.
beautiful book--huxley does a fantastic job of portraying the life of a young man and his growth over so eloquently and beautifully.
because the whole story is told by the perspective of a young man recalling past events, it paints a wonderful image of the speaker's almost posthumous recollection of events.
this also does a fantastic job of providing suspense in the subtlest way--the reader is kept at the edge of his seat wanting to know what comes next but also given the peace of mind that everything has already happened.
overall, fantastic book and i expect to be reading it many more times in the near future.
За щастие няма много общо с "Прекрасния нов свят", за която авторът сам признава, че би преработил, но се е сдържал. Пълна с референции, благодаря на преводача за уловените и обяснените, особено ми хареса тази за "блудния син, току що завърнал се от странстванията си и диетата на рожкове". Съвсем в началото съм, но цялото описание на влизането на Ривърс в дома на Маартенс ме хвана за яката. Дано се появят и онези цинични нотки, заради които препрочитах преди години няколко пъти "Имението Кроум".
A psychoanalytic character study that finds its greatest achievements in moments of brute clarity, when the dross of the language of intellectual deconstruction, which the protagonist scorns and yet cannot help but use to explore the past, present and future, is cleared away to reveal the raw, naked emotions of fear, jealousy, and shame.
This is a rather short novella easily read in a single, highly enjoyable sitting. Over the course of less than 100 pages Huxley develops a very gripping tale of forbidden love and lust and delves deeply into human nature. This work is much more successful than his much-more-often-touted Crome Yellow at establishing character and exposing and exploring human passions and foibles.
Ich fand diesen Huxley Roman mehr als gelungen. Ich hätte nicht gedacht, dass es sich so gut lesen lassen würde (nachdem ich die Schöne Neue Welt nach ein paar Seiten bei Seite legte) ... Huxley zeigt in diesem Buch Humor, Witz, schräge Charakterstudien und noch nen Plot, den ich mochte.
Very intense book. It mixes so well philosophy, psychology, remarkable characters that get stuch in your memory, out of the ordinary destinies...
Admire the logic! I loved this book. It was funny, philosophical and made to much sense while being non-sensical.
This short novel was my first return to Huxley since studying his canonical dystopian text Brave New World, which, admittedly, put me off for a few years.
But The Genius and the Goddess is a far cry from Huxley's straight-talking and somewhat laboured illustration of false utopia, which may not be a surprise since it is 24 years its senior.
Despite the very traditional choice of narrative structure, oral storytelling, and the fact that this text is effectively a soapbox for Huxley's opinions on love, sex, God, death (and all the good, chewy stuff in between) this book is often so surprisingly modern in sentiment and tone that I repeatedly flicked back to the copyright page in spite of myself!In fact, I adored this book.
Esta obra nada tiene que ver con el estilo, género y temática de la conocida Un mundo feliz.
Es una aproximación filosófica y psicológica a temas como el amor, el placer, las experiencias, el deseo, el arte y la ciencia con una prosa ingeniosa y divertida.
A pesar de su estructura convencional (un personaje le cuenta la historia en orden cronológico a otro), y de que la historia en sí no terminó de seducirme, reconozco que tiene muy buenos momentos y que marqué varios pasajes durante la lectura.
Ahí está la ironía de nuestro destino: tener sentimientos shakesperianos y hablar de ellos como vendedores de automóviles.
The writing was rich with feeling and flair - it wasn't so obnoxious and correct that it didn't seem like a story was being told by one character to another, but was stylistic enough for me to notice and therefore admire.
I thought the occasional comments and questions from the narrator did add to the experience of a story being told - the reader is an outsider, but the detachment does work.
The religious overtones were interesting - I always find themes of love/sex and religion work well together, so this was unsurprising.
I thought it was too expensive as a paper back that originally sold only for 35 US cents back in 1956.
The book was in a dilapidated condition and as I read it the brittle paper of the binding came loose.
Full of insight and accurate observations on the plight and misery of the human condition, that's Huxley!
This book was written when Huxley was in an advanced age, yet it had much of the magic that I had experienced earlier when I read Point Counter Point- in 1996.
I felt thankful to the old book seller who sold this to me.
Katy, femeia puternică la exterior, dar neîmplinită pe plan spiritual îşi înşală soţul, geniul care o iubeşte atât de mult încât se îmbolnăveşte din cauza ei, cu portejatul acestuia.
John Rivers pare incapabil să se opună şi, nutrind pentru această "zeiţă" o dragoste platonică la început, carnală spre final, atrage gelozia lui Ruth, fiica familiei Maartens.
Pe măsură ce Ruth îşi diversifică lecturile şi survin schimbările adolescentine, iubirea pe care i-o respinge John se transformă în ură îndreptată către bărbat şi mama ei.
Povestea se sfârşeşte tragic, cu moartea celor două în prim-plan, fiind (pentru mine, cel puţin), singurul fapt imprevizibil din roman.
"Разказвайки за случилото се преди тридесет години, Джон Ривърс осъзнава, че то е променило живота му изцяло. Вмъкнатите в разказа му размишления за съдбата, живота, смъртта и всичко останало, превръщат книгата "Геният и богинята" не в поредната клиширана любовна историята, а в един философски разговор за вечните неща. Неща, до които всички ние се сблъскваме рано или късно..." --- http://vyarareads.blogspot.com/2012/1...
Of course the adulterous woman dies for her crimes, and the conniving young girl dies as well for...well, for being savvy to the (male) main characters's deceits. Language is beautiful, but the plot is lazy. Severely lazy.
!Tengo que leer todo lo que haya escrito Huxley! OMG hagan una película de este libro plis plis plis.
Ea era o zeita care se prabusise si-si gasea drumul inapoi spre Olimp pe calea senzualitatii.
Un hermoso libro de Huxley, uno de mis autores favoritos aunque no he leído mucho de él.
Algo que debo remediar.La novela trata de un joven que se enamora de la mujer de su maestro.
La inexperiencia y la ingenuidad del protagonista lo hacen idealizar a su amada, y sus férreos principios morales se oponen directamente a la urgencia de su pasión.Los hechos se desenvuelven trágicamente, pero de manera brillante.
Lo único que no me gustó fue la enormidad de adjetivizaciones y un abuso brutal de adverbios, los cual hace a la novela un poco cansada.
Uno puede saltarse trozos enteros sin perder ni un ápice de la trama.
Brilliant story-telling, captivating deep characters, and a great read. I wish I could give this book more than 5 stars; he really knows how to write characters in a way that you know exactly why they did what they did or said what they said because of their past and detailed but at the same time simple character development. I am a huge fan of Brave New World, and look forward to reading more Huxley in the future.
This novel was an interesting way to break into Aldous Huxley's works. I really look forward diving into the rest of his writing. I found the conversational format of this story very interesting, and the philosophical commentary was both engaging and insightful. This novel was no where near as good as "A Brave New World", but then again, the uniqueness of each novel can never truly be recaptured. Still a very enjoyable read.
alles verganglichen, gleichnisSi está usted lo bastante acostumbrado al mondongo y la bazofia que nos sirven los que moldean la opinión pública, tendrá a contaminar sus impresiones en la misma fuente; recreará el mundo a la imagen de sus propias nociones y, desde luego, sus propias nociones son las de todos los demás. Pero la poesía original está siempre ahí; siempre- insistió.
