https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26795307-moonglow
Michael Chabon pulls off a hybrid memoir and a contested fictional multigenerational family history peppered with anecdotes and stories from his heavily medicated grandfather on his deathbed.
I came away from reading this feeling that in this case it barely matters which bricks of this fabled reconstruction of family history are true and which are false.
What mattered to me is the warmth, passion, vibrancy, imagination and humour with which the web of stories are told, the love and affection that drive the need in the author to document his maternal grandfather's life as he is dying, serving the purpose of tangibly memorialising and honouring a life on the cusp of passing on.
Michael Chabon: I love your classy name - your books -and your wonderful talented -courageous wife: author Ayelet Waldman.
When Netgalley and Edelweiss- both- turned my request down for Moonglow and Ayelet's new 'soon-to-be-released' book, called, "A Really Good Day: How Microdosing Made a Mega Difference in My Mood, My Marriage, and My Life"....I kinda laughed.
Michael was able to see in those last ten days of his grandfathers life -- just how crushing his grandparents marriage really was at times due to all secrets & lies they both kept hidden.
Michael and his grandfather talked about the cemetery ...
4.5 stars Michael Chabon has held a place in my literary heart ever since I read The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay and has insured that place with his latest book.
Chabon's inspiration for the book were the stories his grandfather told while he was on pain killers and close to death.
While the changes in time and place aren't always seamless, the telling was very much like our memories, a little complex and not always in chronological order .
I also loved when he tells of his grandmother and the stories she told him .
I needed to chew on this for a night, to stare at the moon, dream, and fantasize about what I really wanted to say -- and write my panegyric in a delicate space after the book.
Whenever liberties have been taken with names, dates, places, events, and conversations, or with the identities, motivations, and interrelationships of family members and historical personages, the reader is assured that they have been taken with due abandon."There is a scene in the book where Chabon is describing his mother, playing with horses carved by her father.
these family stories/myths contain our BIG truths.
Memoir, fictional novel, exaggerations or just Chabon's musings, whichever way you choose to look at it, just know this book was written with a great deal of love.
The novel goes back and forth, different stages of his grandfathers life, Michael discussing these thongs with his mother, his mother's recollections and his grandmother's forays into mental illness.
The funny and coincidental thing about this is that the only other book of Chabons that I read, Wonder Boys, featured a snake.
A snake was also an important part of this book, occurring in his grandfather's life before he found out he was sick.
Moonglow is purportedly a memoir of Chabon’s grandfather but it reads like a highly sophisticated novel.
Often while reading I found myself thinking, no one surely could have a grandfather this interesting, so tailor made to be the hero of a novel.
It makes you think a lot about memory, its expedient ordering principles, its white lies and its hindsight stocktaking and balancing of the books.
Chabon’s grandfather is dying of cancer when he narrates haphazardly to his grandson his memories.
His grandfather’s role in the Second World War is to find the Nazi rocket scientist, Wernher von Braun, before the Russians do.
His grandfather shared stories that were revealed under the influence of prescriptions for the pain he suffered from with bone cancer, and shortly before his death.
A week of stories told, revelations from his grandfather’s younger years.
It might get a tiny bit bogged down once or twice, or maybe that was just me having an unusually reading-time-interrupted (and thus, frustrating) week, but there was much about this that I loved.
I will remember the story, but I doubt I will ever forget the way this went right to my heart.

I started Moonglow last week on a park bench, outside of my daughters' day camp, and by page 3, I knew, with total confidence, that as soon as I finished the book, I'd be reading it again.By page 10, I was digging in my purse for my post-it notes and my pen, refusing to avert my eyes from the page to do so, pen cap in my mouth, scrawling Kurt Vonnegut, Slaughterhouse 5, and is Chabon the Philip Roth of Philadelphia?, and perhaps madness is caused by a person being unable to find their place in the continuum?I was 100 pages into the book before I realized I was sitting in full sun, sweat was dripping down the sides of my face, and I had a moment of thinking, it's okay, I'll swim when I get home, picturing the pool that was in our backyard my entire childhood but that hasn't been a part of my life now for 21 years.
Never having revealed a great deal to his grandson during his life, his grandfather decides to remedy that, by regaling Michael with stories from his colorful and adventurous life, while on his deathbed.‘Ninety percent of everything he ever told me about his life, I heard in its final ten days.’The author never refers to his grandfather by name, and I have not idea why, but the gentleman lived through many significant phases in history.
Is it a real memoir, or a novel disguised as a memoir?Either way, the book is unique, with realistic and compelling characterizations, and a sophisticated prose, which is what I liked best about it.
"I'm disappointed in myself. In my life. All my life, everything I tried, I only got halfway there. You try to take advantage of the time you have. That's what they tell you to do. But when you're old, you look back and you see all you did with all that time is waste it. All you have is a story of things you never started or couldn't finish. Things you fought with all your heart to build that didn't last or fought with all your heart to get rid of and they're all still around. I'm ashamed of m
If a small moment like this is properly and charmingly revisited and concluded, if differently from how the reader may have thought things would turn out, Chabon has it mastered with the larger set pieces and major themes: his grandmother's mysterious past and demons that torment her; his grandfather's love of rockets through the years; his grandfather's strong but occasionally tenyous relationship with Chabon's mother who is not his biological child.Chabon's grandfather gets the lion's share of the attention, and he is a marvelous character and sounds as though he was also a pretty amazing man.
There is so much life in Moonglow: a novel with the trappings of memoir that wraps in the lives of Chabon's grandfather, grandmother, mother, and even himself in parts.
Chabon’s seventh novel was inspired by his maternal grandfather’s deathbed confessions in 1989—or was it?
A tongue-in-cheek author’s note refers to this as a “memoir,” and it’s narrated by “Mike Chabon,” but he and “Grandfather” (never named) are characters here in the same way that Jonathan Safran Foer and his ancestors are in Everything Is Illuminated.
Space travel and explosives are Grandfather’s lifelong obsessions.
Chabon offers a rich meditation on how Jewishness and family secrets influence the creation of identity.
With a seam of dark humor that brings to mind Jonas Jonasson’s The Hundred-Year-Old Man..., Moonglow inventively fuses family history and fiction but leaves cracks for happiness and meaning to shine through.See my full review on the 
With all the necessary schmaltz, Yiddish wit, and Holocaust sub-text, it would have been instant boffo - America as it once was and may be becoming again: proud of its wars, politely but insistently racist, with rotten health care and tribal politics, and an ultimate hope for resting place in God’s gated community somewhere in the Florida swamps.Depending on the Director, the script could take various tacks, from the edifying and heart-felt family drama of Miracle on 34th St. to a sarcastic variant of Dr. Strangelove.
But he really doesn’t have the leisure required for repentance given his crushing responsibilities.
This is my third book from Michael Chabon. Chabon never writes the same book twice, and each book has been terrific in its own way. His endlessly celebrated—and one of my all-time favourite novels— The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay trades comic book shtick with political and societal upheaval while building some of the most memorable character moments I’ve ever read.  The Yiddish Policeman’s Union , by contrast, is a gumshoe noir set in a fictional Jewish settlement in Alaska that co
Chabon has pasted together conversations with his palliative grandfather in his final days, oodles of research, historical fact, memory (that tricky, unreliable, ephemeral creature), and liberties taken to “conform with memory, narrative purpose, or the truth as I prefer to understand it (Author’s Note, Moonglow.” It makes for a tale that seems at times to be too strange to be non-fiction, to personal to be anything but real, and had me questioning throughout what was true.
The story jumps from adventure, to reminiscence, to regret, the joy of discovery, the pursuit of a worthy task, and familial love.What most surprised me with the novel/memoir was how large a part Chabon’s grandmother plays in the proceedings.
A Magnificent Chiaroscuro We are as clouds that veil the midnight moon; How restlessly they speed and gleam and quiver,Streaking the darkness radiantly! yet soonNight closes round, and they are lost for ever:-- "Mutability," Percy Bysshe ShelleyMoonglow, Michael Chabon's brilliantly constructed narrative, documents the narrator's conversations with his dying grandfather that travel back and forth between the grandfather on his deathbed and the story he's giving of his past. This construct accom
Initially I was skeptical of this novel because the previous two put ants on me.In addition, Chabon gets to show his finely honed storytelling skills--instead of trying to impress with his lexicon--by weaving together frayed story lines to compose what stroke-and-layer by stroke-and-layer becomes a magnificent chiaroscuro lingered in moonlight, of his grandfather (an admirable, ingenious, gruffly romantic man's man from the Greatest Generation), his grandmother (a fascinating and troubled soul who came to the U.S. after WWII with a young daughter on her hip and a numbered tattoo on her arm), and their unique marriage, while family secrets obscure the background.Chabon vividly captures the mixture of pleasure and plaintive of grandpa's past, infused with charm and wit.
Though this is billed as a memoir it reads like a riveting novel.
Chabon's grandparents though are a novelist's dream.
The grandfather is an amateur rocket enthusiast.
Except when the grandfather sees the conditions under which the slave workers were compelled to toil his prevailing emotion towards Von Braun becomes murderous.
But more compelling is the tortuous but loving relationship shared by Chabon's grandparents.
I loved all the sections where Chabon recounts his childhood memories of his mentally unstable but compelling grandmother.
It's often the detail, always exuberantly and eloquently and deftly chosen, that makes this such a fabulous read.
“Moonglow” is a wondrous book that celebrates the power of family bonds and the slipperiness of memory.
“Keeping secrets was the family business,” he says, “but it was a business that none of us ever profited from.” His courage to break that code of silence was inspired by stories his dying grandfather told him more than 25 years ago.
“His fetish for self-reliance made him secretive,” Chabon says, but their final meeting produced an unusual torrent of reminiscence.
“Ninety percent of everything he ever told me about his life,” Chabon writes, “I heard during the final ten days.” And — what do you know!
Like so many others, Michael Chabon won me over with The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay and this novel/memoir (?) looked to be infused with the same kinds of playfulness and seriousness.
I genuinely struggled to reignite my interest in the man afterwards, which only goes to show that I was completely lost within the narrative/memoir maze of the book.
Chabon's gambit worked.
This feeling is exacerbated by the typically magical Chabon language and metaphor; he rarely chooses to illustrate moments in the way which my mind was primed to expect.
Every so often, there comes a book that is so heartbreakingly real and so stylistically accomplished that it makes you feel like you're never going to pick up another book again, because what would be the point? Then there are those times when a book so sparks you with a love of narrative and of your fellow people, that you want to rush out and just smother yourself in stories. Michael Chabon's latest is, somehow, both of these. Easily my favourite book of the year.
To pack the thing with a ton of amatol, to hobble it so that instead of tearing loose once and for all from the mundane pull, it only arced back to earth and killed the people among whom it fell, was to abuse it.”I don’t know what the significance of the matches on the cover are, but a particular cigarette lighter figures all through the book, as do the moon and the stars.
What stories have come from within the author's mind vs from within his family.There was an afterword in my edition (and hopefully in all) wherein Chabon talks more about what is at play in this book, the family stories, his grandfather, grandmother, his mother, "real" memories vs family lore vs the type of memories that children retain based partly on reality and partly on confused recollection.
Then there is the mind of the author who uses his creativity to bring his family together in a story which combines everything.
Especially in a novel about the effect of war on the lives of the narrator's grandparents, where happiness is found 'in the cracks' between failure and mental health breakdowns, and heroes are found to be villians, and fiction is better than knowing the truth.Stories told to Chabon by his terminally ill grandfather inspired Moonglow.
A pretty good story in spite of the failures, dreams deferred, the heartbreak, and the craziness.See photos that inspired Chabon while writing Moonglow at:http://www.ew.com/article/2016/09/22/...I received a free ebook from the publisher through Edelweiss in exchange for a fair and unbiased review.
I lugged it to Baltimore with me, knowing I would likely not have time to read it, because some of it is set there.
And I'm not sure that it is a novel I'll particularly remember later on."...In the ordinary course of life, it was probably best to say what was in your heart, to share what was on your mind, to tell the people you loved that you loved them, to ask those you had harmed to forgive you and to confront those who had hurt you with the truth about the damage they had done.
It was a strange approach, and would probably have been handled differently by a different author.Or maybe this explains it, from about 100 pages later:"What's the point of talking about it?" my mother said.
Brilliant . . . so what's my problem? In preparing this memoir, I have stuck to facts except when facts refused to confirm with memory, narrative purpose, or the truth as I prefer to understand it. Whatever liberties have been taken with names, dates, places, events, and conversations, or with identities, motivations, and interrelationships of family members and historical personages, the reader is assured that they have been taken with due abandon. What a brilliant Author's Note! Moonglow may
Moonglow may be a memoir of the author's grandfather, but Chabon has always been a wizard at telling stories.
Again, I think I saw Chabon beginning to do this roughly a third of the way through the book, but it was not quite enough to capture my loyalty.
So let me end with the first passage which made me think that this might be a novel after all.
He has a name, Father Nickel, and in the two or three chapters in which he features, becomes almost as well filled-out a character as the grandfather himself.
Chabon's skill on the line-level, that cascade of perfect, idiosyncratic sentences, has never left him, but his iffy choices of subject matter over the last 15 years has rendered him somewhat invisible.
This fade into the background of literature is the hazard of the mid-career artist, but after reading his wonderful essay about his son at Paris fashion week (http://www.gq.com/story/my-son-the-pr...), I pre-ordered MOONGLOW.And the fake memoir was a happy surprise - a return to the epoch-spanning scope of KAVALIER AND CLAY, with a personal touch that plays into the contemporary vogue for author-is-present novels.
There is one scene of peak melodrama that is (no spoilers) real bad, but most everything else feels right, and Chabon's fake grandfather is one of the more real characters I've read in a long time.
The powerful driving force of Chabon’s new novel is the deathbed confessions of the narrator’s grandfather. Revealing the pains and surprises caused by secrets, lies, and war, Moonglow is a rich examination of a family history built on hidden truths, an emotional love story, and a fantastic work of autobiographical family history-turned-novel. (The novel is based on Chabon’s own grandfather’s stories.)Backlist bump: Manhood for Amateurs: The Pleasures and Regrets of a Husband, Father, and Son by Michael ChabonTune in to our weekly podcast dedicated to all things new books, All The Books: http://bookriot.com/listen/shows/allt...
I'm a little sick at heart to say that, if it hadn't been a Chabon book, I would have abandoned it half-way through.
Overall, the book felt to me like 47 ripping yarns about one life, all sewn together only by the loose concept of memoir.
Roth, in his long journey from Portnoy's Complaint to The Human Stain and beyond, managed to stay with familiar themes, and yet savored the challenge of reinventing himself each time.I dearly hope Chabon will make that his New Year's Resolution.
Said to be inspired by a stoic grandfather's sudden verbosity on his deathbed, Moonglow is fictionalized account of Chabon's family that focuses mainly on his maternal grandparents.Like Knausgaard's fictional memoirs, one is never sure where the truth starts or stops, and with that fiction label it really doesn't matter.
The story feels true however, and I found myself forgetting at times that at the very least it is truth exaggerated or significantly added upon.While there is a serious risk of navel gazing with an attempt such as this, I never got the sense that this was so with Moonglow.
This is a heartwarming fictional biography, maybe, of Michael Chabon's grandfather, possibly.The title 'reflects' it all - moonglow is mirrored light, not an actual glowing of original inner light, gentle reader...I can't decide if this book is a biographical fiction or a fictionalized biography.
Michael decided to research his grandparents' life after his grandfather's death, following leads given in a period of time when the dying bedridden man finally spoke of his past while under the influence of painkillers.
I think Michael also wanted to know why and how his grandfather became the man Michael loved, and solve some family mysteries at the same time, especially about his grandmother.
But the book reads like a novel, with only occasional interjections from the author, as well as tangents related to the author's mother.
We also see what happens during "liberation" of towns; sometimes the townspeople do not want to be liberated, and we see what happens during the liberation of Nazi concentration camps.The most charming part of the novel is the love story between the grandfather and his French-born grandmother, the terrible things she endured during the war, and her eventual mental illness.
The structure of this novel is so different, and the charm of the numerous stories is sure to captivate any lover of good fiction.
