https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34019122-past-tense
Hitch-hiking is a roll of the dice at best, and now he’s found himself unexpectedly dropped–off in New Hampshire.
It looks like all roads lead to Laconia, New Hampshire.
Maybe it’s high time to get in touch with his family roots.Shorty and Patty have concocted a fool-proof plan.
Or...what exactly do they want from them?As the two seemingly separate stories converge, the tension builds to an explosive crescendo.This is one of the darker Jack Reacher novels I’ve read.
If you’re a Jack Reacher fan then this is a must read for you!
The second story line with the two young people stranded finally at a more than creepy motel was the most interesting in the book.I like my characters well drawn and I think Mr. Child did a great job in helping me get to know Patty and Shorty and how they are hoping to set up a shop in Florida with the help of whatever is in that extremely heavy suitcase which they are unwilling to part with even when their lives are at stake.
I’ve been reading the Jack Reacher series since Lee Child wrote his first.
How wonderful it is after finishing #23 in the series to say it’s definitely one of my favorites!Jack Reacher, our 6’5” ex-military hero is on a journey from Maine to California and decides to take a pit stop in Laconia, New Hampshire to check out his father’s birthplace.
Meanwhile, there are some other nasty folks around that our hero gives a mighty fine lesson.A definite stand out for me is the female ex-MP, now Laconia cop, Reacher interacts with throughout the book.If you have never met Jack Reacher yet, but would like to meet a man that likes intelligent women, doesn’t take any crap from anyone, and will protect those that are in despair, read this book.
The town of Laconia triggers a memory for Reacher, which he soon recollects is Stan Reacher’s place of birth, a father who taught him the steely ways of Marine life.
Recommended to series fans who want to see yet another unique angle to this ever-evolving collection.I know some people have read and reviewed this book, feeling that it is missing an essential piece of the Reacher puzzle.
There may be some wonderful nuggets on which Child can build in novels to come, which I hope continue.
This could be due to Jack Reacher outstaying his welcome - there are only so many plots available given the context or it could be that with every story, Jack Reacher becomes more and more like a Superman-Ninja combination.
And the meeting felt like a contrivance rather than two plot points seamlessly merging into each other.
So, my take is that Lee Child had to bring in a non Jack Reacher story line to bring back the tension into the series again.Welp, I am not hopeful that this series is going to be back on an upward swing anytime soon.
One of the best in the series to date!There are a number of story lines going on in this one and a lot of characters, some good and some really bad - as usual!
Also as usual Jack manages to get caught up in several different issues and has to fight his way out.
He also discovers some amazing details about his own genealogy which he takes much more calmly than I think I would.All the usual action, plenty of dead bodies, some very nasty baddies and a great story.
Thank you Mr Child and keep up the good work please!
My thanks to Random House/Ballantine and Netgalley for letting me read this arc for my honest opinion.It's actually been a few years since I've read Jack Reacher.
I'll confess that when I heard that Tom Cruise was playing Reacher in a movie it kind of ruined the image.
Well, look at my little rant.
Look at me go!
O.K., Seriously, I really enjoyed this book.
I liked the story, and I actually enjoyed the main characters, and was kind of anxious for them.
Still, once again I'm engaged with Jack Reacher.
I really did enjoy this story.
Oh, how I love this Jack Reacher series!I’ve always felt the thinking of timing, speed, movement, sequences, and assessments was Reacher’s.
From previous books, I know Reacher has that internal clock and he just knows what time it is.
It took most of the book to bring these two plot lines together, but all hell breaks loose after that.I eventually became very fond of Patty and Shorty after initially thinking they were being pretty stupid.
I really liked the search for Reacher’s father’s history.
It got me thinking about his family.I think it was in the very first book that we met Reacher’s brother, Joe. Didn’t he work for the federal government in some capacity?
Reacher is an ex-MP who has taken to wandering the country, heading here and there for the barest of reasons.
Along the way, Reacher always seems to stumble into trouble.
Meanwhile, a couple of Canadians head south on an adventure of their own, one perhaps that could have been better planned and in a car that certainly could have been better maintained.
I found this to be an enjoyable and compelling read, although don't open it up expecting a lightning paced thriller.
It's pace is more thoughtful and confident, if not laconic.
What makes it work is the even pace, the narrative voice,and natural curiosity.
And in this, the 23rd book in the series, he gets plenty of opportunity to practice his considerable skill.The story begins as Reacher walks and hitchhikes near a remote and tiny town in New Hampshire on his way to wherever else the wind (or more accurately, any driver who gives him a lift) takes him.
Besides that, other local and otherwise innocent folks are finding themselves in potential danger simply because they helped Reacher; how can he possibly turn his back on them and hike away?And so it goes, with excitement and action building all the way from town to the woods and back to an explosive end.
Telling you about the tension I felt reading this one!!
It was creepy, evil terrifying- the premise AND the execution of it.The premise is one that I've read in maybe 10 novels in my life, mostly sci.
but in some YA reads too, like Hunger Games.That tells you enough.
Several other people will be reading my copy quite soon too.All of you who know Reacher for so many years of reading and knowing each nuance of his unique and quirky lifestyle- can you tell me if Child ever let us know how he shaves?
And Reacher isn't even half of either.
A skillfully descriptive and masterfully intense story with Jack Reacher and a perfect cast of characters.
He should go left to Portsmith, but the road to the right heads to a town he has never seen, Laconia, New Hampshire.
At the same time, a couple traveling from Canada to New York in a worn out Honda are experiencing car trouble thirty miles outside Laconia.
REVIEWThis is Jack Reacher #23, and I am happy to say I have loved every single one of Lee Child’s books.
The story is going to be gripping and intense and Reacher is going to make things right.
I was so happy to receive this as an advance review copy from NetGalley and the publisher as I had never read a Jack Reacher book until now.
Let me just say - it was awful!
I was so disappointed.
I was not shocked to see many one star reviews when I went to Amazon.
I am not giving up on Lee Child's writing though, and I have a couple of his previous books I plan on reading.
I know he can write!
I just seem to have chosen the wrong book to start out with.

:-)Addendum - 9:30 am, Melbourne, 12 November: I've given this book more thought and "Past Tense" indicates to me that Lee Child may have been reacting to the comments of an increasing (in my opinion) number of malcontents in the vast army of Jack Reacher fans.
If you want to know why, read my review.Directly after listening to #23, "Past Tense" I was 'twixt and tween' 3.5 Stars or 4.0 Stars.
I have a number of Reacher books narrated by Jeff Harding and I thought he was far easier on the ear that the aging Dick Hill.
I admit I haven't read ALL of the Reacher books but I have read quite a few and I do believe this is one of the best.In this outing, ex-MP Reacher decides to travel from Maine to San Diego and starts hitching a ride.
I believe it can be read as a standalone if you haven't been reading the series.
But I can also highly recommend the series, not only for the great action but for its strong, intelligent, well-fleshed-out characters.
I am a huge Jack Reacher fan and this book did not disappoint! This book was different from Lee Child's other books and I liked it! There were two seemingly unrelated storylines going on and I spent most of the book trying to figure out how they connected. Also, the plot was not at all predictable and kept me guessing the entire time! Thank you NetGalley for the ARC! This was a great read and I would definitely recommend it!
What's a slight detour and one more day!Arriving at the town and bumping up against the fact that no one seems to recognize the Reacher name, Jack embarks on another adventure sure to involve lots of mysterious and dangerous factors.
For the couple their fate is perilous and threatening.Tough and resilient as we who know Jack Reacher to be, this book will not disappoint those who have been with Lee Child for many of his adventures with Jack.
Jack Reacher once again finds himself in the middle of a strange situation.
True to form, Reacher once again manages to find trouble when he sets out to help others.A young couple, having car issues, finds themselves stranded at a rather strange motel in the middle of nowhere and there are some suspicious things happening.
During his stay his antenna perks up and he starts tracking some suspicious occurrences.This is a gripping, fast-paced book and if you like Jack Reacher you will certainly enjoy the story.
I look forward to another Jack Reacher adventure soon.Thanks to Lee Child and Random House Publishing Group - Ballantine through Netgalley for an advance copy.
While Jack explores family history in town, we are treated to the misadventures of a poor, young married couple on the way from Canada to Boston who end up stuck at a strange motel in the woods near Laconia.
Their story interleaves with Jack’s until a point of convergence near the end.It takes him a long time and creative work for him to get past the first roadblock of no birth, tax, or property records for the family.
Someone remembers a Reacher kid who was a birdwatcher and actually lived out of town in an area near the tin factory which no longer exists.
We get bits and pieces of multiple story lines stemming from the fact that Jack stumbled upon an area where he knew his family lived 75 years ago.
Then a shocking revelation that brought the story to a new height.I have to say I love the way this author writes his story.
You get the sense of urgency and trepidation; that heightened interest within the thrill of the story.Past Tense is loaded with chills and thrills, action, twists, inventive plots, and a shocking revelation that might make you sick to your stomach.
(Thus the title PAST TENSE) .
The pace is picking up somewhat as there is a bit more action!The two divergent storylines converge in trademark Reacher style: heart-stopping and electrifying - accentuated with explosive deadly force!
However, that Reacher style does not culminate until the 75% mark in the book!
Although PAST TENSE does not have much action or thrills & chills until the last quarter of the book, it is ‘worth the wait’ and the slow burn ended up being more than satisfying!

Easily one of my favorite Reacher books to date.
It had everything I love about one of my favorite characters in literature inside a taut, mystery-cloaked thriller.Excellent pacing, nail-biting tension, likable/despicable characters, and Jack Reacher being his usual unflappable self in the midst of it all.In Past Tense, Jack Reacher visits a small town in New Hampshire to hunt down information on the town where his father grew up.
Twenty miles away, Patty and Shorty have unknowingly driven their rickety Honda into a trap and it will require primitive instincts and help from a man they've never met before in order to survive the night.If you love Lee Child and Jack Reacher, then this is one of the best of the series.
3.5 stars
I was so excited to read this book.
Past Tense is one of my favorite in the Jack Reacher series.In this book we have 2 stories.
Reacher is on how way to San Diego but he sees a sign for a town where his father was born.
But strange things happens at the motel.Even though I knew what was going to happen with the young couple, I was still on the edge-of-my seat for when the 2 stories intertwine.
It was full of suspense right up to the end.I definitely recommend this book to all whether you are a Jack Reacher fan or not.
Reacher's story takes a break and about 20 miles away Patty and Shorty's story picks up....
It gets eerier and eerier for Patty and Shorty (what is in that suitcase??) They are obviously scheduled to be the next victims in the book but Reacher isn't even aware of them.
Remind me to stay away from New Hampshire.Past Tense was a slower paced compared to most of the previous books.
Patty and Shorty decided to fight back and finally they meet Reacher.
Reacher finally connects with his father's remaining family.
Patty and Shorty did save their very heavy suitcase.A great read!
Jack's traipsing around the public records office and the oldest members of the local community is a bore.
He visits various public records offices, and gets a lot of help from the locals when dad Stan Reacher doesn't show up right away in the town’s 80-year-old census records.
At the same time, a young Canadian couple on its way to NYC has car trouble, and ends up at a remote motel.
(The couple was about the interesting part of the book.) In the final quarter, the pace finally accelerates from a crawl, making the book okay.
I have been a Jack Reacher fan ever since a friend recommended the books to me and I went back to the first one and caught up.
I was over 75% into the book before Reacher even arrived at the motel where the second story was taking place.
That really shouldn't happen with an author as experienced as Lee Child.I went back and forth in my thinking of whether to assign this book two or three stars, so finally decided it was a three star experience for me.
I have to say I do miss having a full Jack Reacher adventure written in the style of the early books.
My annual Reacher hit 🤩 and now on the day after its release I am already waiting for the next one. Mr Child, could you possibly write two per year?
