https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26025989-the-princess-diarist
It's not an entirely flattering portrait of Ford, although you can tell how deep her feelings for him ran.Apparently the genesis of this book was when Fisher found the diaries she kept during the filming of 
This book goes from her getting her role to her relationship with Ford to the aftermath of the movie and what former stars do to make some extra money.
Her loss is tremendously sad, but we are lucky she shared so much of herself with us, and it is somewhat fitting that, as she thought, she lived her life as Princess Leia, and died while promoting a book about what it was like to live down that legacy.
DNF @ 48%(but not a DNF like you think - no rating because i didn't finish it)reading this book made me miss carrie fisher so much.
it reads like you asked her to talk about her affair with harrison ford and she obliged, unfiltered, for hours.
it makes harrison ford seem like a bit of an ass, and it's impossible not to wonder what his real reaction to this publishing was.it's not all sunshine and laser guns.
i love carrie fisher.
Shortly before she died, Carrie Fisher discovered a collection of journals she'd written in 1976 while filming the first Star Wars movie.
In The Princess Diarist, Fisher's 1976 journal entries are revealed, giving readers a private look at a confident, successful celebrity when she was just a naive, vulnerable young woman on the brink of stardom.
The Princess Diarist is largely about Fisher's affair with Harrison Ford while the first Star Wars movie was being filmed.
Fisher's journal reveals a tendency to victimize herself when her heart is aching, even though she never tells Harrison about her romantic feelings.
Last year before her passing, a number of Goodreads friends of mine posted that they were reading a new memoir in diary format written by Carrie Fisher.
Through the reading of the diary, I found out what it was to be Carrie, rather than Leia, and how she at a relatively young age was able to separate the two personas.What I found the most introspective in this book was not her relationship with other actors or the poems, but of life after Star Wars.
Reading this book gave me the finality that Princess Leia will no longer be acting in future Star Wars movies.
Excellent reading!  IN MEMORIAM It was a shock when the news of Carrie Fisher’s demise came out, especially when her movie career was getting a deserved second air in the new Star Wars trilogy (sequel to the events of the original trilogy). Carrie Fisher did all her scenes for the incoming Episode VIII, so we’ll be able to see her one last time, and……due the advance in special effects, I have no doubt that we’ll have plenty enough of Princess Leia, even in the eventual Episode IX.It was a bitte

Take a highly intelligent, anxiety prone girl, mix in the life changing, world wide phenomena that is Star Wars, and add a dash of handsome, introverted, and married leading man and you have: The Princess Diarist.This is not really about Star Wars as much as it is about obsession and Carrie trying to figure out who she is.
:)Here's an actual entry from her diary that includes a mention of George Lucas: "George says that if you look at the person someone chooses to have "a relationship" with, you'll see what they think of themselves.
Y'all, I can't even talk about this right now.
A little less than half is some of the passages from the diary Carrie kept in 1976 while filming Star Wars.
In 1976, Harrison Ford was 35 with a wife and two children, but this didn't stop him from starting a brief, nearly wordless affair with the young Carrie Fisher.
Whatever he was feeling or thinking, Carrie was only left to guess, and pour her musings and insecurities out onto the page.For context though, and the all elusive sub-text, the sharing of these innocent diary musings are an interesting addition to the Star Wars canonical universe.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || Pinterest"I am someone who wants very much to be popular. I don't just want you to like me, I want to be one of the most joy-inducing human beings that you've ever encountered. I want to explode on your night sky like fireworks at midnight on New Year's Eve in Hong Kong" (47).This is going to be a difficult book to review. I've never reviewed a book so close to the author's passing, and it was a sad and bittersweet experience - sad, because the worl
Apparently she was also sent to fat camp to lose ten pounds for the role before she actually got around to doing any acting.The chapter about her affair with Harrison Ford is also quite strange, made stranger by the fact that it's immediately followed by the excerpts from the diary she kept as a teenager while onset at Star Wars.
She says a lot without saying much at all, and by the time you get to the end of the book, you're just as mystified about what she's like as you were at the beginning, second-guessing yourself the whole time.
In the final of her short memoirs, Carrie Fisher turns her focus onto the inevitable Star Wars franchise and her memories from being on the set in 1976.
From there, it was trying to sell herself for either the role of Princess Leia in Star Wars or Carrie in the eponymous film based on the Stephen King novel.
What some have come to find as the most revealing portion of the memoir (and to which Fisher admits she waited forty years to share) is an extensive discussion about off-screen interactions between Fisher and Harrison Ford.
Admittedly I was after a "behind the scenes of Star Wars" Carrie Fisher and with that in mind, I was way off the mark here.This is Carrie's last written word before her sad passing - I am sure we all agree that the world lost a beautiful woman and a great talent on that day.
She talks us through the hours needed to be spent having hair and make-up done and as a self-professed Star Wars geek I started to feel I was back in '77 when the movie first rolled out.Carrie's memoir slides off on a tangent as she confesses to the biggest unkept secret of her career, her affair with Harrison Ford, who was at the time married and around fourteen years her senior.
2016 Carrie Fisher talks about starting out as an actress, getting cast as Princess Leia and her affair with Harrison Ford.2.
3. 2016 Carrie Fisher talks about her relationship with Harrison Ford post-affair and her struggles with being Leia over the course of the next 40 years, particularly when it comes to interacting with fans.
The sections from her 1976 diaries were kind of heartbreaking, because it's obvious how much of her self-worth was dependent on her relationship with a much older man who didn't entirely understand her and didn't really feel the same way because, like, he had a wife and kids at home in the US.
Hearing ANYTHING about Star Wars from Carrie was so wonderful.
The overall writing is a bit hard to get through at times, but her voice really came through.
And it was all sorts of emotional to hear her make so many references to "after her death."So I really did enjoy hearing her thoughts, but didn't expect so much of the focus to be around her affair with Harrison.
She basically recounts everything that happened from her perspective and includes journal entries from while they were filming the first movie.
The idea that she "loved him and he allowed it" was pretty sad...
I liked that this book had a central theme, since most non-fiction tends to be a more sprawling narrative. It all revolves around Carrie's experience with Star Wars and what becoming and being knwon as Princess Leai meant to her. I listened to the audiobook and Carrie read it herself, which was kind of a heartbreaking experience because she often ponders what her legacy after her death will be. I, like so many, grew up with Star Wars so I really enjoyed hearing this story.
The only really memorable piece of info is Fisher’s confirmation that she had an affair with her co-star, Harrison Ford, who was married at the time and 15 years her senior.
I haven’t read any of Fisher’s previous memoirs so I can’t say whether she’s repeating herself here but I thought some of the behind-the-scenes Star Wars stuff was pretty interesting.
I enjoyed the details on the actual Star Wars shoot but most of the book, especially the Carrison affair, was utterly boring.
I am however a Carrie Fisher fan and I am so happy I picked this one up.Those like me who have no emotional connection to Star Wars shouldn’t let that prevent them from reading this.
Carrie also discusses the impact that being Princess Leia has had on her life from the beginning of filming until her passing, the pros and cons of forever being connected to easily one of the most well known, well loved characters in history.As always, Fisher's comic wit and brilliant personality shine through and I hope other non-Star Wars fans will still give one a shot.
What an incredible, complicated, witty, damaged, talented, creative, self-destructive and intelligent woman.
Don't go into this expecting a behind the scenes expose or anything, but you can truthfully come out of it feeling a sense of awe and joy for having been a part of something so big...
even coming from the actress in the metal bikini.
:)Reading this is both sweet and heartbreaking at the same time.I, like so many others, love Star Wars, but as with so many people like me, I tend to forget that the people involved with it are just as fascinating in their own right.
I was not a huge Carrie Fisher or Star Wars fan, in fact I only just watched Star Wars for the first time the year Episode VII came out.
That said, I think Carrie is an excellent memoirist.
Carrie came across her diaries from the early Star Wars days, where she was the "typical" late teens early 20s angsty idealistic woman.
She was very honest about her feelings, wrote awful poetry (think Mortified podcast), and all of it is relatable.
Her daughter reads the excerpts from her diaries at the time and Carrie reads the rest.
Even though I'm not a Star Wars fan, I am a big fan of Carrie Fisher.
I loved how outspoken and honest she was about her life and mental health.
After listening to  The Princess Diarist  I now love how honest she was about her affair with Harrison Ford.
I also greatly enjoyed her talking about some of her fan interactions; hilarious.It's nice to hear someone from Hollywood talking about how insecure she was about her hair, her weight, etc...
(As she called them.) As a role model for strong women, one could do much worse than the Princess.Recommended for anyone interested in learning more about Carrie Fisher and Star Wars.
Much of it was pointless 'filler' that was completely unnecessary to the story Carrie was trying to tell.For instance, the whole first chapter...'It was 1976'...is just a listing of all the things that were happening in the year 1976.
It's pages and pages of a 19 year old stoner trying to sound deep and meaningful with her 'poetry', and torturing herself with her intense infatuation of her married co-star.
Seriously...the whole chapter is OTHER peoples stories about why they love her and what Princess Leia means to them.
I knew this was going to be good, so as I usually do, I put off reading it for a while. When I finally got to it, I was sucked in immediately. Carrie Fisher is at once hilarious and thought-provoking, and her commentary looking back on the time of the filming of Star Wars, as well as her diary entries, are fascinating. I’m definitely going to read her other writing when I get the chance.— Jessica Yangfrom The Best Books We Read In February 2017: http://bookriot.com/2017/02/28/riot-r...
Carrie Fisher is a sarcastic, funny and honest writer, not hesitating to write about herself in a not so pretty light.
But Carrie Fisher doesn't bash her fame, she knows she is loved for her most famous character, Princess Leia, and in return, loves Leia as well and will always do what is right for Leia, no matter the weird way it effects her own life.This may not have the trivia one hopes for, but I love that it didn't have much of that.
A great read for women who are Star Wars fans, and have loved Han Solo for as long as they could remember.
I can’t promise that this is going to be an objective review; I feel this needs to be made clear from the outset.Five days ago, Carrie Fisher died, and in a year of deeply meaningful celebrity deaths from an era of entertainment so many of us look back on fondly, this felt like a final kick in the gut (followed a day later, of course, by her mother, Debbie Reynolds).Who do I think I would’ve been if I hadn’t been Princess Leia?
(This is both a rhetorical and real question.)Carrie Fisher and Princess Leia meant a lot to so many young girls and women who grew up watching these films.
I act like someone in a bomb shelter trying to raise everyone’s spirits.I put off reading this for about a year, because I am unsure about celebrity memoirs.
Of course, I was pleasantly surprised by The Princess Diarist, an audio collab read by Fisher with diary excerpts by daughter Billie Lourd.
It’s a man’s world, and show business is a man’s meal, with women generously sprinkled through it like overqualified spice.A nice break from the more serious nonfiction I've been reading recently.
Recommended to fans of Carrie Fisher.
This is the story of a 19 year old high school drop out who ended up being in the BIGGEST movie franchise of all time and how it impacted the rest of her life.
In this book she reveals that during the filming she had a relationship with Harrison Ford.
She was a 19 year old keeping a secret; Ford was married at the time and thinking, like all young women, that this man you are sleeping with really cares about you.
What makes this a great book is that Carrie Fisher, God rest her soul, was really funny.
Growing up loving the movie Star Wars, this was a great behind the scenes look into the lives of the cast. Carrie is a funny writer and she has a knack for writing about the human condition. I laughed at all the scenes she paints with questions her fans ask her during book signing and some of them are poignant. I'm sad we lost Carrie last year and I'm glad we have this lasting memory of her and her experience as Princess Leia.
<<¿Quién crees que habrías sido si no hubieras sido una princesa intergaláctica?>>Sería yo.Ya lo sabéis. Carrie.Solo yo.
I remember when I found out how young Carrie Fisher was when she was cast as Princess Leia (barely nineteen!) I wondered what it would be like to have your first real job be Princess Leia.
Here are her memories, her musings, and even her crappy teenage poetry about getting cast, meeting the cast, getting her buns on, and how being Princess Leia changed her life.
(If it were Carrie Fisher, she would have been lying in bed with a Coke in one hand and her other hand trying to put her dog's tongue back in his mouth.) Funny, shocking, and more than a little sad now that she has passed away.
4.5/5 SPECTACULAR the audiobook is a must. Possibly the most quotable book I've ever read.
