https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/146561.Afternoon_Men
I picked up this book not really knowing what to expect other than it should be funny.
I finished the book liking it but not really knowing why.
I didn't find it particularly funny and it certainly wasn't the funniest book I have ever read but there was an element of ridiculousness (new word alert!!) to the superficial lives of the characters that is oddly entertaining and keeps you interested.
The characters lives seem very pointless and I am sure someone with a sharp intellect could find some neat philosophical theme...but I just read it for leisure.
A very funny book in which absolutely nothing happens. I read some criticism of it while reading up on literature of the 1930s and thought it sounded unbelievably bleak, but somehow I was amused rather than depressed. The characters want very little, do even less, and even the climactic bits are entirely anti-climactic -- very telling in a novel from 1931.
Powell's first novel differs in tone from his Dance cycle.
And the plot is again cyclical; while that character was created through metaphor and imagery in Dance, here it is simply the fact that the first and last scenes occur in a private club and conclude with an invitation to a party.
The protagonist seems to have no purpose or real enjoyment to his life, and the only change that occurs to him in the course of the novel is his loss of a couple of girlfriends to other men.
Despite the fact that I tend to dislike bleak novels, I quite enjoyed reading this.
Posh people do nothing very slowly. So why do I love this book? I really don't know, but it really is a gem. Now I want to read everything else he wrote....
His father was a retired civil servant who lived in Essex, where he and his wife kept a chicken farm.The group from the bar decide to go to a party where we are introduced to even more characters.
Atwater meets a girl, called Lola ('She had the look of a gnome or prematurely vicious child.') whom he unsuccessfully tries to get to go home with him, that is until he is obviously entranced with the appearance of the beautiful Susan Nunnery, then Lola is eager to get Atwater away from the party.
Barlow said:   "He seemed quite unused to getting into taxis."The first section also contains a chapter where we see Atwater at work in the museum.
The more I re-read Powell, the more I appreciate the subtlety of the humour. A classic from this first of his novels is the comment that a man passed out drunk at a party doesn’t lower the tone of the party as much as he did while still conscious. It is dry humour at its most Saharan, but very enjoyable.
I found this book at a used book store in Minneapolis. Anthony Powell is one of my favorite writers, so I bought it. I think it was one of his earlier books, published in 1931. Just finished it. I liked it, of course. The dry wit, the recording of conversations -- you want to read more and more (and if you do, there's always his massive "Dance to the Music of Time." The protagonist's love affair reminded me of one I had in college, where you couldn't seem to find a way to where you wanted to go.
Meh...Un libro frivolo. Non appassionante. Non coinvolgente. Primo che leggo dell'autore, e temo mi abbia un poco fatto passare la voglia di leggere il resto, nonostante tutti dicano sia un grande scrittore.Penso sia l'opera a non essere all'altezza del resto. Quindi si, gli daremo un' altra chance. Tra un po'
In his memoirs, Powell makes a distinction between two kinds of novelist - the Perfectionists, like Flaubert or Henry James, who write and re-write, making sure everything is just so and not a word is misplaced; and the Other Sort, like Dickens and Balzac, for whom no situation, detail or character which enters their minds is superfluous.
He got better as he got older - having plodded away at his craft for forty-odd years, he was finally competent enough to produce 'Books Do Furnish a Room' and 'Hearing Secret Harmonies' - decent novels both.
Indeed, there are a few structural clunkers here that would, later on, surely have caused him acute embarrassment.
I can't hide my guilt-sodden liking for this book and would no doubt be awarding it a star or two more if I could not remember a time when such trivial fluff was forced upon us under the banner of Important Literature.
Such a grotesque mis-selling, which might not have been Powell's fault, still rankles decades later.
Written 20 years before Anthony Powell's greatest work began publication in the 1950s, this short novel set in 1930 London among a motley crowd of bohemian artists and would-be writers is of interest just for that, being an early work.
It shows his use of dialogue in new ways - lots of fragments and repetition , you need to concentrate to follow the plot.
This seems to be drink, party, talk , over and over again until the final pages, when something has happened.
Main characters Pringle and Atwater are carefully described on meeting, then you need to keep your wits about you to follow them.
Life happens to you, rather than you take action.
Very funny; deeply melancholy; a satire tinged with modernism. Compares very well with Waugh’s work of the same period but to be a little brutal, it isn’t at the same level as Scott Fitzgerald. I’d suggest that it would go well in a set with ‘Great Gatsby’, ‘Scoop’, some of the more urban Wodehouse (‘Bill the Conqueror’) and even the short stories of Somerset Maughan. I will certainly read it again.
Entertaining- sort of like American Psycho without the sadism and murder, in that the characters are privileged and vacant, and spend all their time eating and drinking, and having disjointed conversations meant to fill their time. A nice parody...
I found this at times funny and at other times quite a sad read. I believe I saw the embryo of Nick Jenkins in the form of William Atwater. Excellent author, a fine read.
Most people who reviewed this book on Goodreads found more in it than I did.
Typically I'm drawn to books where very little happens and what does happen has to be parsed from elliptical clues.
The most eventful part of the book is part III, where Pringle decides to commit suicide by drowning after seeing his fiancée fooling around with one of his friends and house-guests.
When his friends find his suicide note, it's well past lunchtime, so they decide to eat something before making any decision.
In the end, "Afternoon Men" is a dull book about average Joes.
Afternoon Men is written nearly wall-to-wall with dialogue, such that you have to piece together what's actually happening from the bits and pieces you overhear.
Characters speak in understatements and half-truths, so it can take some getting used to.
But the characters and the book are so clever-- I wanted them to be my clever friends, although I'm sure some people will find them awfully tedious.
There aren't many sympathetic characters, and Powell doesn't give away any of their emotional depth easily.
It's a bit bleak and certainly not generous writing, but I found it very, very funny.
I'd really like to read more from Powell.
It's impressive how much mileage this guy can get out of a hardly-rollicking plotline and page after page of banal dialog. It shouldn't work, and yet it's absorbing and darkly funny and even kind of deep for those of us who like to ascribe depth to things that look on the surface like nothing has happened.Also, this is an extremely quick read, ideal for someone halfway through a brick-like book she's too busy to concentrate on but still wanting to actually finally read something start to finish.
This is a good book, it is funny and it is well written. But I can only give a 3 because there is plenty here to annoy. The characters are all dreadful (cynical, a satire, whatever) and seem hardly worth the effort of getting to know. They, or the author, are shocking snobs. Any working person is usually presented as slovenly, or stupid and certainly not 'people like us'. The language in the novel is old fashioned even for the time, it can only seek to exclude. I can't give it less than 3 because I enjoyed it.
This is a very slight, but mildly entertaining novel.
For readers of Powell's masterpiece, A Dance to the Music of Time, it will be seen as a much lesser work that is still of some interest.
Although the tone of the novel is quite different from the twelve novel series that comprise A Dance..., the characters portrayed and the social situations are all rather familiar and evoke that world.
This first novel of his is no place to start an acquaintance with Powell, but provides some satisfaction to those who've long considered him a good friend and are eager for some continued connection.
Powell's novel is funny and cynical. His characters will not arouse any sympathy from the reader, however you cannot put this book down. The chapter when the characters argue about the appropriateness of having lunch when you know your host just committed suicide is hysterical, and having the hero pretend to have only a little to eat to fein compassion is never-seen. The characters are unpleasant but they are true, they are selfish but we understand why. That's all I was asking from Powell.
A pointless book about pointless people. I realize it's a satire something something modern attitudes something something, and it is well-written and witty, but it's still fairly pointless. Maybe some of Powell's other books involve more interesting people.
Absolutely brilliant. Dull, banal young things and artist manques sauntering through the 1930's Wasteland of Evelyn Waugh. Permeated with ennui and delicious irony. Snatches of phatic conversations redolent of Elliot. A map of a certain seedy class's cultural mindset.
Sort of a cross between The Importance of Being Earnest and Waiting for Godot. Clever at times, but not often, and the satire seemed overdone.
Love Affairs of Nathaniel P for the 1930s, except not as good.
It's an episode of Seinfeld, if Seinfeld was a 30's British painter.
http://wp.me/4tIpD
to_read_nation
La quarta di copertina dice che è un capolavoro di comicità assurda, ma a me ha annoiato.
A book every Millennial ought to read.
1930s between the wars Britain. People doing nothing. Kind of a written pre-Seinfeld. The characters were simultaneously engaging and insipid. They were all probably killed in the Blitz.
