https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/383508.Organizational_Behavior
Hmmm... mostly mengingatkan pada kenangan buruk bersama Pak Billy yang terhormat, yang dengan kemurahan hatinya berhasil tidak meluluskan lebih dari setengah kelas Perilaku Organisasi...
read for a class.. very educational..
it feels like you are reading an hr handbook. there's interesting research but you wonder whether they went for a desired conclusion and cherry picked research.Weird stuff like men and women perform the same except women excel at this. Still has some interesting data points, never wanders out to anything profound or outside the cookie cutter mold. You might be better off skimming parts of lean in then reading this textbook.
i want to read this book for my organizational project
COMPLETE book of Organizational Behavior.
Huge book..
Hardest unit for this semester..
But anyway am reviewing the book and it was great..
It helped me a lot with my studies and the way the words written on it was very easy for memorizing and for understanding the points nd to get it more clear the definitions and the important points where written on the right side of the book in a simple way for us to study also because of the examples after each paragraph and the way the writer typed all the information in this huge book everything is perfect nd i loved the unit.
Okay so I skimmed a lot of this, it was required reading for a class. It does contain very vital information on interactions in the workplace, and ways to be a better manager by understanding the behaviors of your workers.
3.5 star.I read this book for my classes. Its a good book. It tell how to be a good leader and how to have a good organization management. It tell what employees motivation, communication, the conflict process, et cetere. Overall its good.
to study
too confusing concepts should be explained with a connection to diverse employees, students etc
nice book
i think this is very good book to increase my knowledge.
It is considered as a reference book for us
i want to read this book...
I read it for a class. I learned alot but it's not a book that I would read for fun.
read for class
The best book on OB and Behavioural Sciences
The best book on this subject...Colourful and all
I read it alongside Eugene McKenna's book, which explained everything very well. I read it for my MBA studies, and it was a good book that covered everything comprehensively.
Excellent introduction and overview of the relatively new field of organizational behavior. Outlines the familiar, basic theories in industrial-organizational psychology and provides an applied and global context for their discussion and application. Many examples appear snatched from recent headlines in the international business press. I believe this to be an engaging textbook for college/university students.
however the reason of reading this book is the study of MBA , it considered to be of the bests to me in the business and administration field , maybe because it related somehow with philosophy which I love the most.It helps me understands the individuals and the organizations, too. however it contains LOTS of theories that somehow can be boring, it's recommended for those who are interested to go deeply within an organization's behavior
I have utilize this book for my Graduate class on Leadership and Organizational development. The topics were relevant and current. Author Stephen Robbins did a great job compiling real world examples and situations. My students found the reading interesting. I will definitely use this source again in future management courses.
Title: Organisational BehaviourSeries: -Author: Stephen P. Robbins, Timothy A. Judge & Bruce Millett Genre: Educational/ Business ManagementRating: 4 stars A very well presented textbook with heaps of useful information and COLOURED pictures and headings. Makes it a bit more interesting in a creative sense. I'd recommend to those studying management or business, as it's a useful text.
Well, this is a textbook after all. But as far as textbooks go, it's well-organized and presents its material in a coherent and well-organized -- if rather dry, of course -- manner. I did find some of the material useful and applicable to thinking of organizational change in a public school setting.
It is a good textbook. A comprehensive one with many examples and cases. However it mostly based on a positivist approach. American way of thinking does not cover critical and postmodernist views. Therefore it loses the 5 star!
Manual molt clar alhora de presentar una amplia informació sobre el funcionament de les organitzacions, però considero que aporta pocs recursos alhora d'intervenir en problemes reals d'una organització.
Shiny Paged make any Textbook terrible!!
vwey helpfull
This book is important for us
