https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114240.The_Torrents_of_Spring
Frustrated that reviewers continued to pin him into Anderson's court, Hemingway declared his independence in this book that is really about the "smallness" of suburban American life (read: Anderson's "Winesburg, OH" and Hemingway's own Oak Park) as opposed to the cosmopolitan experience of expatriate Left Bank Paris and the recent War in Europe.
Scripps has never left his small area of Michigan, and Yogi has been to Europe, participated in the war, and inhaled Paris.
In it, Hemingway declares independence from his publisher as well as his literary roots, clearing the way for Scribner to publish The Sun Also Rises and establish Hemingway's place in the pantheon of Great American Writers.
It is a harsh thing to insult the person to which you owe your first publishing deal, as well as much of your writing style, but if you have read much of the biographical material on Hemingway, you will know that he was a hugely selfish and egotistical person.
He was not very inspired by the place, not often at least, which is a shame, because the Nick Adams tales are the best writing I have read of his.
But here we have a more farcical view of Indians than those found in the Nick Adams tales.
Now the joke needs explanation, so that it has lost its topical point.There's no mention of when the introduction itself was written, but as "The Torrents of Spring" was first published in 1926 and first published in the UK in 1964, I'll assume that Garnett's introduction was written around 1964 - and he would have been around and old enough to read the authors Hemingway parodied back when they were getting published.
I'm not sure where the inspiration to add this stuff came from back in 1926, but it felt oddly familiar to me from reading online stories whose authors often beg for comments, maybe in exchange for leaving comments of their own on the readers' texts.
I thought that as an adult with a better appreciation for the literary world that Hemingway was lampooning I would like it more, and after reading it for a second time, I have no idea why I thought that and want to yell at me from five days ago.
Do you need to spend a few hours reading a takedown of Sherwood Anderson?
I mean, sure, you can place this book in some kind of historical context - Hem was trying to get out of his contract and wrote something that would get rejected, it was the twenties, on and on.
Hemingway war schon lange auf meiner Liste, doch "Die Sturmfluten des Frühlings" war eindeutig keine gute Wahl um in das Schaffen des Herrn einzusteigen.
Somit gestaltet sich der Genuss sehr schmal, wenn man die Biografie von Ernest nicht kennt.Trotzdem, die Geschichte ist irgendwie faszinierend in ihrer Form - mit den kurzen und knappen Sätzen, den Wiederholungen, dem schrägen Umgang mit den Figuren und den angriffigen Bemerkungen des Autoren an die Leser.
Klar, die Geschichte muss im Zeitkontext gesehen werden, aber viele Passagen waren für mich etwas zu viel des Guten.Aber keine Angst, ich gebe Hemingway nicht auf - das wäre hier nicht fair.
A book that gets your heart racing and then suddenly the author cuts you off ruining the moment.I hated the beginning.... but as the book progressed, I must say, Hemingway and his antics paid off.
Hilarious.
Just funny! I don't even get all the references, because I'm not a 1920s era author, but poking fun at establishment and pretentiousness resonates with all generations.
ارنست همنجواي رمز في قصته بأسلوب رائع الي انسان الفطرة (الهندي ) الذي يأتي ويستبدله سكريسس اونيل في وطنه وهو انسان فقد مبادئه ( هجرتني زوجتي ) فيحتضن الحلم الامريكي ( الطائر الصغير ) برفعة الانسان الذي سريعاً ما يقابل في المطعم ( شهوة الانسان ) الاوروبيين الهاربين من حضارتهم البالية بسبب الحرب ( النادلة البريطانية ) اما عن الأم المفقودة ( الحضارة الانسانية ) واستبدالها بالرجل العسكري (الحضارة العسكرية ) .
كحقيقة لناهية العرق العظيم الذي تكلم عنه همنجواي على غلاف الرواية * كان عجيب من الكاتب مخاطبة القارئ مباشرة في فصول الروايةوكان بها بعض الشرح ربما لأنه كجزء من رسالته يريد ان يوصل بان الانسانية لم تعد تفهم كما اعتادت ،،وانطمست الحقائق !!
What an odd, un-Hemingwayesque novella. At times I thought I had fallen into a Nathanael West absurdist comedy. I know Papa wrote it as a parody of Sherwood Anderson, but, not knowing Anderson's work well enough to 'get it,' I still thought this slim book a droll delight.
This book made me laugh outloud, numerous times. It's quite different then most Hemingway. It's not a serious book, it's kinda goofy,and I thought it was great fun.

I read this, along with any other Hemingway books I could find, in order to better understand the woman who recommended him to me. Having gotten through several novels and innumerable short stories by the author, I was rather startled by this, his first published novel, as it is entirely unlike everything else. Indeed, it is a sophomoric satire which I found very funny at the time although I had little idea of the literary styles Hemingway was parodying.
I read this on the redeye and I wasn't really paying attention because Dennis Rodman was making a ruckus by the bathrooms. At any rate, I don't think satire was Hemingway's thing.If you liked this, make sure to follow me on Goodreads for more reviews!
اصلا انگار همینگوی نبود :/ناراضی ام
For a Hemingway way book, this is a very poor substitute for one. Every section Hemingway felt he had to do a summary and then go on an ego trip of who he knew or met.The book itself had a poor story line. In parts Hemingway bragged it took him a few hours to write. I can truly believe that.The story themes of a relationship breaking up, working in a bean factory, the indigenous community being suppressed had all the hallmarks of an Erskine Caldwell book.
Υπερβολικά απλή γραφή με περιττές παραγράφους σε πολλές περιπτώσεις. Υπόθεση χωρίς κάποια κατεύθυνση και ένα τέλος το οποίο σε κάνει να αναρωτιέσαι τι είχε στο μυαλό του ο γράφων του. Ο Χέμινγουει αναφέρει στις τελευταίες σελίδες ότι έγραψε αυτό το βιβλίο μέσα σε 10 μέρες. Νομίζω φαίνεται.
How did you people laugh at it? I didn’t even smiled once. Maybe I didn’t get the jokes
Mildly amusing. As this novel is said to be a satire, particularly of Sherwood Anderson's DARK LAUGHTER, a fair reviewer would also read that novel, which hardly seems worthwhile.
Muss nicht sein... nur für echte Hemingway Fans!
A rather hastily written book by Hemingway. It's different than ususal Hemingway books. The story is light-hearted and feels incomplete. Overall, a quick read and a forgettable one too. Maybe I didn't get the context in which it was written. Didn't quite enjoy it.
Matig verhaal. Waarschijnlijk doordat het een parodie op de grote schrijvers van zijn tijd is.
To be frank, it is a short little thing that I cannot quite classify as either good or bad but it is Hemingway and thus I was propelled through it all. The whole affair is very absurd to read, especially all the Author's notes that are left through out the text. Honestly, I could not say I would recommend this to be read by any folks who don't care to have a shelf filled with every Hemingway work. But I would recommend those who want an hour or two alone with some strange and baffling piece of written word.
Some people complain about Hemingway's writing style.
They gripe that they are not familiar with the works that Hemingway was parodying; what an odd complaint to lay at an author's feet.
Hemingway wrote Torrents (in a week!) between drafts of the Sun Also Rises.
The book offers a subtle though mocking critique of the grandiose writing style of the age.
Yet, like other great works, Torrents has a timeless quality: the grandiose writing style that Hemingway mocks can be compared with the overweening way that many view their lives' struggles.
Torrents of Spring may not be my favorite Hemingway, but irrelevance is not among its shortcomings.
If you are looking for something by him more obscure, try Islands in the Stream.I think I liked this book most for the random historical insights I gathered.
For example, I was entertained to learn that loin cloths were standard attire for native american factory workers at the time and place of the story.
Most of the other insights, like learning who Steve Brodie was, required actively looking up references I didn't understand.
If you really like Hemingway, the 1920's, or Northern Michigan you might like this book.
Review can also be found in Chill and readWhat can one say of The Torrents of Spring…?This is not a classic Hemingway book.
That said, let’s get into the book details.The Torrents of Spring is a hilarious parody of the Chicago school of literature.
They held the right of first refusal for his next three books, one of which was to be a novel, with the proviso that the contract would be terminated if one of the three were rejected.
It's all very humdrum, but, in fleeting moments, it's Hemingway's version of humdrum.
I feel like Hemingway would've made fun of this book if somebody else wrote it.
There are still a few good parts though, I will say that.However, there are "Author's Notes" where Hemingway addresses the reader directly and they're easily the best part of the book.
He offers to hang out with the reader and lets them know that they can rewrite part of this book and he even talks about F.
They're so random, but they're the best part of the book.
It reads like a parody (of itself almost) but it comes together and is as satisfying as many a more conventional novel.
Things happen (plot) to people (characters) in specific places (settings).
I like almost all of the characters though I sense that Hemingway wrote them to be disliked.
Social and cultural and ethnic divides seem greater than ever though the need and desire to come together (in a way in which war allowed) is ever present.This is the Hemingway who is in turn parodied by the young Woody Allen (Without Feathers), and admired by the older one (Midnight in Paris).
The book jacket tells me this is "hilarious parody" but this to me is a prime example of a book that "has not aged well" at best, and is definitely sorta creepy.
According to the book jacket, I was to find "hilarious parody." Perhaps with a doctorate in literature, I would have found it so (in 1926).
Then again, for Hemingway to parody other writers sometimes in his own style is rather meta, which has been popular in recent years.
(And besides, having read "Go Set a Watchman", I can no longer give any other book a one-star rating.).
I guess he did successfully make fun of the novel Anderson wrote, the friend who introduced him to all of the influential expats in Paris that helped him launch his career.
The book by Anderson was annoying and terrible in my opinion and so was the Torrents of Spring.
I'm embarrassed for Hemingway though for making fun of Anderson's repetition and simple word usage considering he worked so hard to put in word repetition into his own writing.
Satire is less effective when it's a thin veil for jealousy and resentment for being compared to an author that inspired your own writing.
