https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9928818-joy-in-the-morning
Informed by his brilliant butler Jeeves, ( a quality our friend lacks, sadly) the magnificent that Zenobia the delightful, a charming, sweet girl, just twenty of age, with a horrible nickname ...can you imagine ...and I'm not joking ..is calledNobby Hopwood , his uncle Percy's ward, she had paid an unexpected visit, with some bad news nevertheless , in the morning while he snoozed...rested.
He will not go to Steeple Bumpleigh, where his aunt lives, and his ex -fiancee Florence also, yikes...Lord Worplesdon daughter, her little brother Edwin the demon, a practicing boy scout, that terrorizes the whole neighborhood, simply thinking about the place gives Mr.Wooster the shakes.
Jeeves in the Morning is not completely dissimilar to other books in the series...All right, it's quite similar.
Reading his books is like watching a rerun of a beloved old sitcom: you can anticipate all the jokes, but you laugh anyway.
I read the books first, then watched the tv series (with Stephen Frye and Hugh Laurie) based on the books.Though it's good, I didn't enjoy the show as much and wasn't sure why.
The Jeeves/Wooster series is written as if Wooster is the narrator and as a narrator he is hilarious.
Read the books and get a full dose of the funny!
The 2012 re-read:Bertie Wooster, with Jeeves in tow, is dragooned into visiting Steeple Bumpleigh, home of Aunt Agatha and her husband, Lord Worplesdon.
Bertie soon walks into a web of broken engagements, arson, and delightfully horrible misunderstandings, including an engagement to Florence Craye.
Can Jeeves extricate Wooster from what will be known as The Steeple Bumpleigh Horror?Of course he can.
Nobby Hopwood, Worplesdon's ward, is engaged to Bertie's friend Boko Fiddleworth.
Lord Worplesdon is in the process of a merger between his shipping company and that of J.
Still, you can't go wrong with Jeeves when you want some dry wit.
The other day, as I was walking along the beach in the frightfully early morning - when both man and beast ought quite to be tucking the old blankets under the pointy end of the old bean - there was a rather fit young lady putting quite some stride into her step not a few yards ahead of me.Unfortunately, I had just gotten up to the part of the story at which Bertie is discoursing with Boko concerning the nature of women and to what extent one can rely on what they say when they are cross with one.
He wrote it while under detention by Germans during WW 2, and had plenty of time to fine-tune it.That it is a comic gem is no question.
Here, Bertie is on run from the beautiful,bossy and intellectual Florence Craye, who wants to "mould" him: and her fiance Stilton Cheesewright, who wants to "mould" Bertie in quite another fashion for stealing his sweetheart.
Add to this the fact that he is forced to stay in the house of his "bad" aunt Agatha (who chews on broken bottles and turns into a werewolf at the time of the full moon) - Bertie's plate of woe is complete.Only Jeeves can resolve all issues and bring joy in the morning.
Before I tell you how great these books are, I have a complaint (no not a Monty Python skit).Several of the Jeeves and Wooster canon were apparently published under "alternate" titles here in the good ol' US of A.
Case in point: this little gem was originally titled (and read my m'self) as, "Joy in the Morning".Now, I can fathom why the American publisher might substitute "Jeeves" for "Joy".
Still, you can't have everything - where would you put it?Get this book, read it, and have a jolly good time doing so!
"An unfortunate concatenation of circumstances" puts Bertie Wooster once again "in the soup" re marriage proposals (with Lady Florence Craye this time) and he requires the sharp mind of the faithfull Jeeves to extricate self and to aid a couple of young eggs into the bargain ( the accident prone Boko Fiddleworth and the perky Zenobia Nobby Hopgood) .
The cast of characters is completed by Bertie's choleric uncle: the shipping magnate, Lord Worlpesdon, his son Edwin - an eager and accident prone Boy Scout and, of course, the village policeman Stilton Cheesewright...
Yesterday morning, I was reading this while standing on the subway platform full of sleepy workers waiting for the train. A random passerby with his ipod plugged in walked by and shouted "Jeeves! Awesome!"
He returned to it after the war, and we're probably safe to assume that its title is a reference to his experience: "Weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.” Here's an excellent piece on exactly what he was so vilified for; the author weighs the evidence and pronounces him more of a "frightful ass" than a "filthy traitor." Here are the actual transcripts from his addresses; I read the first one, which seems harmless in itself but one can see how having this idiot blithely telling jokes when people have been dying by the millions might have stuck in a few craws.Now that we've dealt with Nazis, back to the first question, and this frankly isn't even the best of the other Wodehouse books I've read, and there's only one of those.
I don't mind that Wodehouse was a frightful ass; so is Bertie Wooster, and that's funny.
Since the guy published over ninety books during his lifetime, I just randomly picked one off of my library’s shelves.
Joy in the Morning is part of the Wooster and Jeeves saga.
Jeeves, Wooster’s butler, has apparently become the standard for stereotypical butlers.
While Jeeves is the brains of the outfit, Wooster is definitely the actions.
(Great for my public image.) All of the names in the book were hilarious and perfect: Steeple Bumpliegh, Boko Fiddleworth, Percy Lord Worplesdon.
This added high brow touch as well as opening up opportunities for comedy what with Wooster constantly belittling Shakespeare.
There are so many boringly named villages in England, maybe one could be re-christened Steeple Bumleigh and we could put a large gold monument to greatness there.
Like a musical comedy without songs (or a particularly wild Shakespeare comedy) Wodehouse expertly builds farce and disaster on top of misunderstanding and confusion.
What P.G. the man went through was undoubtedly awful (and his own behaviour was not above reproach), but we love Wodehouse the author because nothing in these pages is more serious than the imminent arrival of Aunt Agatha.
All of the books can be summarised like so, Bertie Wooster is a man of great means but few grey cells.
He is well meaning and a good sport but gets himself into all sorts of social entanglements that his shrewd man servant Jeeves ends up rescuing him from.The title is from Psalms, "Weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning".
A title which suits Wodehouses' formulaic aim of all's well that ends well.Bertie is pushed into holidaying in the village of Steeple Bumpleigh to facilitate a clandestine meeting between his Uncle Percy and a business partner Chichester Clam.
To summarize the book, "It's a confounding concatenation of comic circumstances."The unassailable melodic ring of that entire line is rendered ineffective by the fact that someone decided to pronounce circumstances as "sircum" and not "kircum".
I strongly suspect that it would win or come second only to the ablest of contenders Right Ho, Jeeves in a royal derby decided by the degrees of concatenating circumstances.It is also splendid to see all the little digs taken at several authors like Hemingway, Shakespeare, and also that rather humorous chap called Wodehouse.Truly a joy!
Edwin was my favorite character in the book. Wodehouse at his best again
It involves some of my favorite characters in the Jeeves and Wooster universe — Boko Fittleworth, Nobby Hopwood, Edwin the Boy Scout, Stilton Cheesewright .
not to mention Jeeves and Wooster themselves.
Wodehouse is a master of humor, plot, and character (seriously, those names!
Wodehouse weaves together a hilarious, ridiculous plot that dips and turns and has each of the characters in different scrapes, out of which they must escape — almost always with Jeeves’ expert help.
Wodehouse is a master at writing these little farcical gems, and Jeeves in the Morning is easily in my top three of his works that I’ve read.Read my complete review here: http://c2rcc.wordpress.com/2010/02/07...
I’ll certainly read the rest of these and recommend them to anyone who enjoys solid British humor.Wodehouse’s chronicling of the daily adventures of Bertie Wooster and his valet Jeeves in pre-war, high society England is sharp, witty and timeless.
Jeeves’ ability to subtly manipulate his social “superiors” and extricate Bertie from his mishaps is priceless.I very much enjoyed this as an audio book because the British actor really made the vibrant dialogue come to life.
There is also a BBC television series adapted from the Jeeves stories with Stephen Fry and Hugh Laurie that is also very well done.
Ah, the many joys of Wodehouse!
One can delight at 'Blandings' or enjoy the company of Psmith, but Bertie and Jeeves offer pleasure often beyond reckoning.
The voice anchors the entire thing -- Bertie's mix of grandiloquence and idiocy gussy up every sentence and beautify ever short story -- but over the course of an entire novel, the plot mechanics, the heartless crush of the inevitable comedy and humiliation, these are the things that make him a master.
Whom in the subsequent eighty years of British literature did he not touch?
'Joy in the Morning' alongside 'Code of the Woosters' sets a high water mark.

I can't describe to you the soul-warming contentment I'm feeling right now, so suffice to say that I enjoyed it very, very much, as with all of the Jeeves books I've read thus far. I recommend these a lot (which probably goes without saying, but oh, well).
تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : ٢٠٠٢موقع القراءة : بريطانيا
Every time I read Wodehouse I wonder how psychiatrists/psychologists have not yet understood the panacea contained in his works.
Particularly Jeeves and Wooster stories.
How Wodehouse is able to make you laugh at every single phrase (and I mean it literally) is a mystery no one will ever unveil.
For instance, after a dose of Wodehouse while breakfasting, if you accidentally see your reflection in the looking-glass, you would have been so fortified you will be immune to the horror.
Look at Shakespeare, for instance.
Jeeves sailing into action.”
That’s the main idea in Joy in the Morning, a great introduction to P.G. Wodehouse’s famous characters, a twenty-something Bertie Wooster and his manservant Jeeves.In this story, Bertie and Jeeves leave London and head for the quiet hamlet of Steeple Bumpleigh.
And nothing good can come of meeting up with them.Uncle Percy, a shipping magnate, seeking wise counsel, enlisted Jeeves to come up with a scheme for Percy to meet in secret and seal a big business deal with a wealthy American shipping tycoon.
Florence is Uncle Percy’s daughter from his first marriage and Bertie had narrowly escaped her clutches only months earlier.
Ingredients: one part rich, good-natured imbecile (Bertie Wooster); one country estate; two pairs of young couples seemingly incapable of ever getting hitched; one bad-tempered uncle; one Boy Scout whose "acts of kindness" drive everyone crazy; a masquerade ball, hijinks galore, and misunderstandings by the minute; and one mastermind valet (Jeeves).
Joy in the Morning, P.G. Wodehouse's eighth foray into the wacky world of Jeeves & Wooster, is just wonderful.
Bertie (with a little help from Jeeves) finds a way to bring the two happy hearts together while extricating himself from the romantic snares of high-minded Florence Craye, violence from her would-be fiance copper Stilton Cheesewright, and downright dangerous "acts of kindness" from his Boy Scout cousin Edwin Craye.
My English friend got me started on Wodehouse (pronounced wood house) with this book.
All of his books are just delightful, a pleasure to read, and this is one of the best.
Read them when you want to feel sunny and cheerful.There's a line in this book that sticks with me, something to the effect of, "Steeple Bumpleigh is the sort of place where you can't lob a brick without beaning an apple-cheeked villager in the head." Ha!
I just love the thought of the random brick-throw test and the really suprised and only just previously cheerful villager.You can pick up any Wodehouse book and be rewarded.
“Joy in the Morning” is one of the entries in the Wooster/Jeeves series and is the source of the famous “Steeple-Bumpleigh Horror” to which Bertie frequently alludes in other books.
Wodehouse recycled the same plot through nearly 90 books, but somehow it never grows old or stale.
A reviewer once quipped that "...it is impossible to be unhappy while reading Wodehouse..." I must agree.
I can never read his books without laughing loud and long.
That was me this weekend and I turned to Jeeves in the Morning for my fix.
I often realize that I'm about as obtuse as Bertie Wooster and I know that I need a Jeeves.
Then, I also realize, that I have many people around me who, each in a small way, smooth my path as efficiently as Jeeves does for Bertie and those around him.
It doesn't matter how many times I turn to P.G. Woodhouse, he never fails to entertain.
Seek him out in times of troubles, oops, there is that urge to break into song again.

"It has been well said of Bertram Wooster by those who enjoy his close acquaintance that if there is one quality more than another that distinguishes him, it is his ability to keep the lip stiff and upper and make the best of things.
Though crushed to earth, as the expression is, he rises again – not absolutely in mid-season form, perhaps but perkier than you would expect and with an eye alert for silver linings." (45)While undergoing immense amounts of stress re PhD application deadlines over the past days, I unabashedly relied on Wodehouse to get me through it.
Just what I needed.
Good laughs, and a lot of them.
Shall I count the ways the Jeeves/Bertie relationship is brilliant?
Not enough room.
Not good with numbers.
But I'll say this - Jeeves always having the perfect quote to fit the occasion, and Bertie's subsequent massacring of those quotes never fails to get me chuckling.
One wonders what Jeeves gets out of the relationship - and yet, it's clear that he's content.
I prescribe at least 3 or 4 Wodehouse novels per year just to maintain the healthy balance of humor needed for a happy life.
I read a Wooster "adventure" every summer and this was the choice of twenty-thirteen. Typically I prefer the conciseness of Wodehouse's short stories, but JOY IN THE MORNING is a worthy member of his greatest hits. It's no secret, of course, that Wodehouse was a recycler and that's certainly the case here (his plots are made of the same tried and true elements) but his characters are so cleverly written and his language so hilariously rich that Wooster, Jeeves, and co. Could simply be riding a train to Perth and I would read it front to back.
