https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/808853.The_Complete_Adventures_of_Curious_George
We even got her the plushy of her favorite curious monkey to go along with the tv series, and every night, she still requires us to bring down this book and have her daddy read it to her.
She loves to snuggle and hug my face and say, "It's okay daddy, it's okay," whenever George jumps too far and breaks his leg or when he flies away into the great blue, getting sad because he'll never see the Man in the Yellow Hat.Little does my daughter know, but I every time I read these pages to her, I want to slip in little things, like the Man in the Yellow Hat is actually the King in Yellow from Carcossa, and George's other name is Damian from Omen.George was always too curious, that's why he climbed out of hell to find the King in Yellow.
I lived with Margret Rey in her Cambridge, MA home in the early 90's, and remained a "girl finder" and good friend with her until her death in 1995.
She told me her husband Hans who was the illustrator for the books slightly made him look like her.
If my memory serves me, it was a woman, Margret in the books walking the dog.
Always a black man in the books, a good friend of theirs.
In the kitchen in one of the books George is sitting on a red dictionary.
One of my prized possessions is a dictionary Margret gave to me.
This Barnes and Noble collectible edition is so charming! The illustrations are very cute and I love the map on the inside cover that displays “The World of Curious George.” This volume contains six Curious George books that were originally published between 1941 and 1963. (Since I never read these as a kid, I have thoroughly enjoyed getting familiar with this classic monkey!)
I don't fully understand what kids find so appealing about these stories, but Watson was fully engrossed in every single one. It kind of drives me crazy a little how no matter how bad he messes things up, in the end it's all fine, because he didn't intend any harm. He was just curious. It cracks me up how critical I've become of children's media. I am totally my mother's son.
One of the greatest children's books ever written. A fantastic read for young, curious boys especially.
But, unlike other parents, mine are able to diffuse a tantrum in less than a minute.
And then, out of the blue, a strange man walks up to us, takes a yellow book, asked for my name, opens it and then started writing something, and then said that i could have it for free.
We went home that night and i asked my mom what it says, she said that the man told her not to tell me.
So, a couple of years later, when i finally learned to read, my mom gave me the book, and i've treasured it ever since.
Great collection of all the Curious George books.
Don't even think that I couldn't add this to my list. Curious George was, in fact, an imaginary friend when I was a child living in Boston. Now I own a Margaret Rey signed copy of this Curious George anthology (thanks to my mother and Mary Knell), and it is a book that travels with me (and has to be enjoyed by children--only when they are supervised and have no sticky hands!).
My six year old son likes this book. It works very well for someone who is just learning to read. He finds them entertaining and funny which encourages him to read. The large print and simple words are also a plus.
Yay!George rules.I read aloud to my nieces, especially the 6yr old. She was captivated.These are fun great stories, even if the age shows in some things.A blast, for sure, glad I picked it up.
Normally, I'm a big fan of the book over the movie, but I actually like the PBS cartoon better than the original stories simply from a political correctness standpoint. My kids don't care though, they love George in any form the can find him.
my hatred of monkeys may very well be traced back to this book.
I'm making my way through Amazon's 100 Best Children's Books to Read in a Lifetime. 80 down. 😀📚
Did you know that Curious George was written by a Jewish couple who barely escaped Germany during the World Wars?
This Complete Collection contains the 7 original Curious George stories as well as a biography of the author and illustrator at the end - including some rather adorable details, like the fact that in the background at some point in all of the books you can see them and their dogs.The appeal of Curious George is something elusive.
Don't you worry about whether or not the Man In The Yellow Hat will get to him in time?
How could they all just forget everything George did so quickly all the time?Or maybe that's the appeal.
It is very hard to evaluate what is mostly, if not entirely, a book meant for young children.
His misadventures are always due to him wanting to learn something new or participate in the (adult) human world.
While he definitely causes problems, he isn't "bad".
And that seems to be the central message for children, that learning how to do things is going to be messy.
Things will go wrong and there can and will be punishment for some of it.
But that doesn't make someone "bad".
We borrowed this jumbo collection of Curious George stories from the library. I actually have some of my old hardcover CG books from the early 1970s, but I don't have all the classic stories in this book. I love reading these to my son. It brings back lots of great memories and it makes me realize that these entertaining and educational stories span all generations.
I was so happy when my school library has this collection. I was a bit old to be reading these stories but I love Curious George so I didn't good my excitement. Honestly I can't think of anyone who hates Curious George. This collection was wonderful to read by myself on Christmas Eve and reading with my family in Christmas Day!
I'm a Japanese . So I speak little English,but this book is not difficuult to read.I think this book is one of the most good book in English .
My favorite story is Curious George goes to hospital.The funniest part is when George crashed into the wall and knock the person into elevator.
While Curious George, taken in the context of a curiously over intelligent but playfully curious animal friend (not unique in the book world), is fun, Curious George and hundreds, if not thousands, of other books like it, deserve to have their social and historical background explained, never as excuses, but to give reference and information on how not to be a racist ethnocentric asshat.
We learn from our history, and this series is one of those that deserves to tell all of its history.
This book is racist.
The whole series is racist.
Curious George was a fixture of my childhood.
I read those books repeatedly.
Now, as an adult, I wonder - what made Curious George work?
It's been around for a long time and kids still seem to love it.
Maybe it's that George makes mistakes, but doesn't get judged for it.
As I read the book, I always found myself smiling at the end of a chapter.
The book does a good job of educating without lecturing.
Did I hold on to my childhood curiosity because of these books?
Good reading for kids of all ages.
Read Harder 2018: Children's Classic Published before 1980My son has loved this book ever since we bought it over a year ago, but I realized recently I had not actually read every story, so I sat down and finished the ones I hadn't. This is a wonderful 70th anniversary edition of the book which contains a publisher's perspective essay at the beginning and retrospective essay at the end with photographs from the author and an audio CD with all seven stories. A must-have for any child's book collection.
A nice collection of Curious George stories.Seven stories:Curious GeorgeCurious George Takes a JobCurious George Rides a BikeCurious George Gets a MedalCurious George Flies a KiteCurious George Learns the AlphabetCurious George Goes to the Hospital
I was always torn on loving these and finding the monkey outright an annoying brat who got away with too much as a kid. I'm still torn as an adult. It has its charm, but some of these 'adventures' he had, I swear.
This is a wonderfully put together collection of the original Curious George stories. In addition is biographies of the authors husband and wife team of H.A. and Margret Rey. The illustrations are the original illustrations are big and easy to see for little ones to follow as someone reads to them the text.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Alistair is loving all Curious George.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Wonderful stories that my own little curious monkey loves me to read to him.
