https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/330744.InuYasha
*Takes a deep breath."OMGOMGOMGOMG THIS IS THE BEST SERIES ON THE FUCKING PLANET IT IS HEARTWARMING AND DARK AND ROMANTIC AND FULL OF ACTION AND ABSOLUTELY BEAUTIFUL!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Okay, got that out of my system.This entire series is amazing.
The cast is so large and yet every one of the characters has their own unique look and personality, and that's, like, impossible to do.I am obssessed with this series, and proud of it.
If there is one person on this planet who does not read/watch this series, then God will have failed.
Since this was the first manga I read, I definitely have a soft spot for it and I absolutely love it despite its flaws.
A centipede demon chases Kagome and pulls out a powerful jewel out of her body which turns out to be the Shikon jewel.
So now Inuyasha and Kagome have to work together to find pieces of the sacred jewel before anyone else gathers the pieces and becomes stronger with the jewels power.Already in the first volume, this manga sucks you in and here you go for an adventure.
It also doesn’t help that she has the Shikon jewel in her body which attracts demons.
Giving this manga one star seems harsh but it's pretty much the only rating I feel is right when I think about my "enjoyment" of this first in a series everyone else but me seems to love. To be fair, though, it's more like 1  star.Anyway, everyone who followed my Black Butler adventure a little (tres, cuatro, cinco, seis, siete, ocho, nueve, diez, once is what I'm talking about) might be a witness that it's hard for me to find a manga series where my enjoyment of it is not a constant rollercoast
Giving this manga one star seems harsh but it's pretty much the only rating I feel is right when I think about my "enjoyment" of this first in a series everyone else but me seems to love.
And when I saw the first few volumes of Inu Yasha at my library, I picked them up with high hopes.Inu Yasha 01 isn't bad by any means, it's just one of those firsts in a book/manga series that didn't make me feel interested in how the story will continue.
Once the manga started, everything happened at once and I was like, wait, can we please slow down a little here?
Why did I ever stop following InuYasha?
For a long time, I was reading each volume as it came out.
Maybe I got lazy, or maybe I forgot to watch for it.
Reading the first volume again reminded me of how much I loved reading it in the first place.
(But hey, at least there's a light at the end of this tunnel...) But after reading the first volume, I think it'll be worth it.
I really like Rumiko Takahashi's signature style, and I love the characters.
This was one of my favorite mangas when I first read it, and it still is.
He de aceptar que nunca pude terminar de ver el anime y o soy muy fan de la historia, quizás porque no la he terminado nunca.
Pero ahora que han decidido publicarla en México podré conocer la historia.En este primer tomo conocemos a Inu Yasha nuestro protagonista el cual ansia convertirse en Yokai.
Habrá que seguir leyendo la historia.Algo que me encantó fue el formato que presenta Panini en 🇲🇽, la sobre cubierta es de un papel muy lindo y el tomo en si esta bien hecho.
Una gran oportunidad de conocer esta historia
I was surprised by how good this volume was. I tend to be a lot more into the more recent anime/manga, but this is an excellent example of an older work with a really strong storyline and the potential for a very cute romance. I was rather upset by how much chest the author drew though. If I owned this book, I'd definitely want to censor it before letting my siblings read it.
Era dall'inizio dell'anno che volevo rileggere Inuyasha, è arrivato il momento u.uCome si suol dire, il primo amore non si scorda mai :3.
Amo Inuyasha e ai tempi avevo anche fatto il cosplay di Kagome (perchè a detta di chi guardava l'anime come me ci somigliavo XD).
Ovviamente non posso rileggerlo dai miei manga perchè...
beh diciamo che ho le edizioni sottili del 2001, la colla potrebbe non reggere e non voglio rovinarli ;).
Sia santificato MangaEden!
🙏🏻Ah, ovviamente tutti i volumi avranno un rating non inferiore alle quattro stelle, quelli con i miei capitoli preferiti possono anche arrivare a cinque.
Add vào goodreads là để kể chuyện mình đặt inu tái bản trên tiki tập 1, bọc sách đẹp lắm nhưng mà bản in bị lỗi, thiếu mất chục trang cuối =)) Mình đã phát rồ lên sau khi buổi tối về nhà nhận ra điều đó, gọi điện nhắn tin khắp nơi từ bạn bè để kể lể khóc lóc, kêu than đến tiki và trẻ để đòi đổi sách.
It was the show that introduced me to anime and at the time I didn't even know what manga was.It would make sense for my adoration to transfer itself over to the manga.
I mean, they did end the anime series early and it's one of my favourite properties of all time.
Because the anime was so incredibly faithful to the manga's material (at least as far as I've read), this isn't anything new to me.
For someone is still cooing over the anime it's hard to really get into the series because that element of surprise, being introduced to something new, not knowing a characters history, motivation, and future, just isn't there any more.
Rumiko Takahashi returns with a story that has all the comedy of her popular series "Ranma 1/2", but with more attention to plot and character development.Kagome is a young Japanese highschooler in modern Japan.
When Kagome causes the Shikon jewel to shatter, she is forced to pair up with Inuyasha, an unruly half-demon, in order to repair the damage she has done!This series is progressive in a way that Takahashi's "Ranma 1/2" fails to be.
The characters develop, learn, and fall in love, and the comedy is enough to split your sides without subtracting from the overall story's movement.I would recommend this series to any graphic-novel fan.
Inuyasha was the first anime show that I really enjoyed. I found it by accident, I even forget how, and then I watched all 167 episodes on Youtube (it took me about 3 months to finish haha) and then the Final Act on a different site. What can I say? I love Inuaysha! It's probably my favorite anime show ever, but definitely top three. It's funny and exciting and I can still not get it out of my head, even though I finished it months ago. Oh, and Inuyasha and Kagome all the way.
Inuyasha was one of the first anime series I watched, and so it has a special place in my heart. While I absolutely despised Inuyasha, our half-demon hero, at first, I loved seeing his feelings for Kagome grow throughout the manga. I loved the juxtaposition of the past world of demons with Kagome's modern world. There were parts hat were so sad they brought me close to tears, and parts where I actually chuckled to myself. A true gem in the manga genre, I'd highly recommend it to anyone who loves a good PNR or a great story in general.
5 stars to the whole series. My whole heart and soul. Can't thank Rumiko Takahashi enough for this masterpiece ❤️
It’s been years since I binged watched the entire Inu-yasha anime, so I thought, why not give the manga a try?
My next question is; if you read it from front to back like a normal book is it really a manga?
I’ve not read many but the ones I have you read from back to front.Either way, from what I can remember the show must stick to the books fairly well.
Reading this just makes me want to watch the show all over again.
But, I guess instead I could continue with the books.
Even if the books insist on showing me 15 year old boobies.Despite that, it’s a fun origin story.
4 Stars.I'll be honest here, I've already started watching the anime, so plot wise I know what is happening, but I've got to say, the manga is really cute and fun! I'm excited to keep on reading :) (Side note: I'm actually reading the bumper 3-in-1 volume, put I'm going to mark as I finish each volume individually so I can keep track!).
I personally think this book is really good. It's filled with a lot of emotion, suspense, and adventure, and I would honestly recommend it to everyone. The story of Inuyasha its self, is quite intriguing and it plays with ones emotions frequently. I'm looking forward to reading the rest of the series.
Kinda loved this. Should have read it sooner.
Coming off of Detective Conan, I was thinking of trying something a bit different.
Be warned though, there is a LARGE amount of filler!For the Japanese bit:I was hoping to go into this with an easier time than Detective Conan, since there are much less words per page.
Conan is great for beginners sure, but it still took me some time to get through, and I thought I'd feel more successful progress going through a book with significantly less text.
If you have a stronger ability of the language, you'll be able to pick up on how to read the informalities, dialects, and colloqualisms of this book, but until then, I'd hold off.
However, what drove me completely crazy was that Inuyasha has like three attacks for thirty-some volumes of the series.
He continues to fight like an idiot, and finally gets attacks because other people help him out.
Inuyasha does not really seem like a hero who would be able to defeat anyone intelligent enough to target his weaknesses.Okay, so as a shounen, it's not that great, because the action is so mindless and repetitive.
In a lot of long manga series, the art gets better along the way, but not so here.This definitely turned out not to be my thing.
Once again a manga I've read already several times before.... couple of years ago. But can't remember really when. But I think it's the first time I've read it in English. I really loved it when I was a child and I am glad that nothing has changed. I still love the story and the plot... oh and the characters! Gotta love them!! The conversations still can make me laugh like I've never read them before.
Takahashi has a good way of telling a story in this first volume, as well.
This volume begins in the Sengoku Jidai, or the Warring States, era of Japan, where Takahashi sets up one of the main plotlines of the series.
The old history nerd in me can't get enough of it.Now, I've read the first few volumes of InuYasha several times.
I've read it translated straight from the Japanese, as well as altered English copies.
Takahashi doesn't waste time diving into the plot, and sets up the plot line nicely in the first volume.
Kagome had a lot to deal with: Crazy demon things coming at her every time she turned around, an old woman trying to tell her what to do, a hot half demon that she can’t decide to trust or not, and some cool new powers.
When it was between Kagome running from a fight or helping people, she would help and that is what made me like her.InuYasha is the half demon that has been trapped/dead until Kagome came into his world.
I got hooked on the InuYasha series back when it was available to be viewed at a reasonable time of day on the Cartoon Network.
I wanted to know if the series had an end and if so how Ms. Takahasi decided to conclude this story.
It was nice to see how his character manages to mellow out some by the end of the series.
It is available for viewing and your reading pleasure at onemanga.com
the shameless manga reviewing continues with another manga that dominated my teen life, INUYASHA.I remember seeing the anime on Adult Swim before tracking down the comic.
then the madness started.Inuyasha is a story set in early medieval Japan which is what I think makes it so interesting.
I remember laughing and crying as well as sitting on the edge of my seat while plowing through this series.the only problem with Inuyasha is WHY THE FUCK IS IT SO LONG?!
Takahashi has a tendency to take an idea and then just repeat that theme in various abstractions throughout her series which is what causes some of her works to be so stinkin' long.
В чест на това, че тази година се навършват 20 години от написването на тази манга, избрах нея като следваща за четене.
Факта, че анимето е в моя топ 3 за всички времена, на най-добрите истории, също помогна за започването на тази манга преди десетките други, които искам да прочета.
Това е история, която съдържа абсолютно всичко, което търся!
Има нещо във феодална Япония, което ме привлича.Колкото до арта...
Не е най-добрия, разбира се, но като се има предвид на колко е години си е супер.
This manga starts off with a prologue that if you haven't at least seen the show and gotten the legend of InuYasha then shame on you.
Well a young half dog demon, InuYasha, steals a spiritual jewel named the Shikon no Tama.
From then on the jewel had never been seen again.There the story stands.All of a sudden we are thrown into modern day society.
How is this possible you'll have to read the manga for yourself to find out!Come and join in on one of my favorite series of all time.
yes, you know the one, "my way." that song alone was addictive.
there were other addictive songs too, but that one remained my favorite.
but i think i'm suppose to be talking about the book, and not the show here.the book is just as good as the series.
takahashi does get straight to the point about needing to collect the shards, so i think i'm being more than slightly unfair.
i'm hoping that as the series progresses, it starts to deviate from the tv show a bit, in a better way.
Melissa WickelhausGenre: Modern FantasyVolume one of Inu-Yasha: A Feudal Fairy Tale follows Kagome, a typical Japanese high school girl until one day when an evil monster pulls her through the old well in the shrine behind her family’s home.
Kagome is pulled from her world into the world of Japan’s ancient past where many of the legends her grandfather has told her about turn out to be true.
Kagome may just be the reincarnation of a village priestess and she must work together with the half-demon Inu-Yasha to retrieve the shards of the Shikon Jewel.
I ABSOLUTLY ADORE INUYASHA!!
InuYasha was introduced to me through my cousin, Yue. She and I watched the anime online.
Or rather, we watched the first twenty or do epsiodes together.
Yue went on with it and saw loads more than I did, I only saw four or so episodes after twenty.
I enjoyed it so much, it's one of my favorites <3 Even knowing what's going to happen up to a certain point the book was an absolute blast two read and I highly highly HIGHLY recommend it.
Warning; it has a few...
A very engrossing manga about a girl who goes back in time to a land full of demons. There is all this stuff and nonsense about swallowing jewels, which is very "Haruka"-like. Which can be a good thing...and wasn't this one written first anyway? It's also kind of like Red River, because the girl gets sucked back in time...wow. This is like the Shojo Base.
