https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8520362-the-grand-design
But it is a very esoteric field, and maybe there just aren't easy ways to help lay-folks visualize the 11-dimensional space and the vibrating membranes?Speaking of clear teaching examples, the book is filled with ways to help the reader visualize some very hard concepts.
What a shame.At any rate, here's my advice: Believe their grand M-theory answer or don't, I don't think it matters as long as you have learned a few things about our scientific understanding of the universe along the way.Since I made fun of "The Industry" suitors I encountered around Los Angeles, I should relate a tale of the foolish physicists.
Some people will point out the odds against any kind of life existing on Earth and say that God must have set it all in motion and made this place just for us and that it’s proof of an intelligent creator.
This isn’t an anti-God book, it’s a pro-science and pro-critical thinking book.
Even though Hawking does his best to dumb down the quantum physics that he claims proves his point and provides lots of handy pictures and graphics to help out the math and science challenged like me, it’s not exactly light reading.
Look John look!See the pop science bestseller.See the glossy paper.See the large font.See the wide margins.See the world-famous physicist.See the ghostwriter.See the double slit experiment!Maybe you have seen it before.But you can never see the double slit experiment too many times.See the theory of everything.It is free of infinities.Probably.Anyway, never mind that.See the quantum multiverse!See the strong anthropic principle.See them explain the mystery of being.They are science.They make predictions.What are the predictions?We don't have space for that.But here's another glossy picture.See God!We don't need God.Science has made Him irrelevant.Why is God laughing?I don't know.I guess He just found something funny.
در مصاحبه با «سی.ان.ان.»، هاوکینگ در پاسخ به پرسش «لری کینگ» که می‌پرسد: «آیا خداوند جهان را خلق کرده؟» می‌گوید: «خداوند ممکن است وجود داشته باشد، ولی علم می‌تواند جهان را بدون نیاز به خلق کننده توضیح دهد».
او می‌افزاید که دانش فیزیک امروز، جهان را بدون نیاز به آفریدگار توضیح می‌دهد ولی این ربطی به مقوله ی ایمان ندارد.»، «ملادینوف» در برابر این حرف «چاپرا» که او را به باوراندن «جبر» متهم کرده‌ است، پاسخ می‌دهد که: «جبری که آنها در کتاب بیان کرده‌ اند، متفاوت از جبر فلسفی متعارف است؛ و صرفاً برای تاکید بر پیروی همه پدیده‌ ها از قوانین علمی است».
Stephen Hawking is smarter than I am. That's no big feat because two of my cats are smarter than I am. The other cat is a certifiable idiot. But Hawking is way smarter than I am. The Grand Design is Hawking's explanation, more or less, about why the universe is the way it is. The answer comes down to M-theory which is more of a combining of explanations than one single unifying theory. Many reviewers seem to think Hawking is saying there is no God but he really seems to be stating that God is i
Stephen Hawking is smarter than I am.
That's no big feat because two of my cats are smarter than I am.
But Hawking is way smarter than I am.
The Grand Design is Hawking's explanation, more or less, about why the universe is the way it is.
The answer comes down to M-theory which is more of a combining of explanations than one single unifying theory.
The beginning of an answer involves an understanding of quantum physics and multiverses that Hawking put as well into laymen's term as we can hope for.
I don't pretend to understand everything in this book.
The thought-stimulating bits of the text largely lie in this section of the book: One note I jotted down was a reminder to look into whether the anisotropy of the universe can be considered a form of symmetry breaking.After this whirlwind history of modern physics, the last few chapters dive into the nitty-gritty details of trying to answer some of the "big questions." Things like "why are we here?" Very light on science, very heavy on philosophy, again in contrast to the opening of the book.

في هذا الكتاب يحاول هوكينج البحث عن النظرية الموحدة للكون التي سعى إليها الكثيرين من قبله، نظرية كل شيء.
ثم طرح نظرية التواريخ البديلة التي تنظر للكون على أنه ليس له تاريخ واحد بل يمكن أن يكون له تواريخ كثيرة وهذا ما يجعلنا نظن بأن كوننا ليس سوى واحد من أكوان كثيرة، وقد ضرب أمثلة تبسيطية وتجارب تم إجرائها ليوضح بالعودة إلى ميكانيكا الكم أن العملية التي نشأت بها الأكوان عشوائية.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Epidemic of Vanity: "The Grand Design" by Stephen Hawking, Leonard Mlodinow(Original Review, 2010)At university, after spending thousands on tuition, I then had to spend a lot, over 3 years, on books for my courses.
More than half were written by the very professors that were teaching me.
Why should we have to pay them again for copies of their pretty badly written books?
Yes, these books are very expensive, and many don't deserve to be read.
A few years ago, I was asked to review a chapter in a research text.
مجدداً ليس هناك ذكر لحقبة مهمة وهي الحقبة العلمية الإسلامية.يقترح الكتاب نظرة جديدة للواقع يسميها "الواقعية المعتمدة على النموذج" والتي تقول أننا لا يمكن أن نصل للحقيقة المحضة ولكن يمكننا تصور نماذج تتوافق مع التجارب وكل نموذج يوافق التجربة يعبر عن الحقيقة، فالحقيقة كخريطة للكرة الأرضية لا يمكن الإحاطة بها بدقة باستخدام خريطة واحدة وإلا حدثت اختلالات وإن كانت بسيطة ولذلك تستخدم عدة خرائط متخصصة تصف كل جزء منها وهذه الخرائط الصغيرة تتقاطع فيما بينها لتعطينا صورة كلية للأرض.يتطرق الكتاب بعد ذلك للنظرية النسبية والفيزياء الكمية ويبين خصائصهما التي تبدو مخالفة للمنطق في البداية كالتباطؤ الزماني في النسبية وفي الفيزياء الكمية تصرف الالكترونات كجسيمات تارة وموجات تارة أخرى حسب وضع تجربة الشقين وكذلك مبدأ الريبة لهايزنبيرج.
In the first chapter Hawking says that his aim is to provide an answer to "Life, Universe and Everything" and goes on to assure us that his answer will not merely be "42". After just completing the last chapter, I think I still prefer "42".
Love to talk or read about very smart people, they always teach me and make me look at things differently. Never miss any programs on TV about our home and universe, or fill my library with books in this subject. Some theories and scientific explanations was over my head, but help to make me understand was just phone call away.
This book got more publicity because it’s supposed to take on the question of God. It’s no secret that the great biologists and physicists tend to be atheists.
But having acknowledged that, I don’t see a point in a physicist trying to “disprove” God through physics.
But that is quite different from a physicist setting out to refute God based on physics.
As for the God-rejecting physics – it can be summarized in two points: 1) While no individual physical object can appear out of nothing, an entire universe can.
Unless you’re a physicist as good as Hawking, there’s nothing you can say about his physics.
اون چیزایی رو که حقیقتاً توضیح داده بود رو خوب توضیح داده بود. + که البته تکراری بودن. هاوکینگ، میشه دیگه کتاب ننویسی؟+ ترجمه و ویراست فاجعه بود. + ویرایش بعد از یک سال و اندی : عصبانی بودم اون موقع خب. زیاد به دل نگیرین.
لماذا توجد هذه المجموعة المحددة من القوانين دون غيرها ؟ "في الفصل الثاني بعنوان " سيادة القانون " ..
يناقش الكتاب نظرية كم تسمى " التواريخ البديلة " وهي التي تقول ( أنه ليس للكون وجود أو تاريخ واحد ، ولكن هناك نسخ محتملة جداً من الكون ) ..
يبدأ الكتاب بشرح الكون ونشأته ويجب على السؤال بحسب رأي المؤلف الذي بدأ الفصل بذكر ملاحظات أدوين هابل عن ان المجرات تبتعد عن الارض ومنها عرف تاريخ نشأة الكون و " الانفجار العظيم - بيغ بانغ )في الفصل السابع " المعجزة الكونية " ..
وفي هذا الفصل يشرح هوكينج نظريم " أم " وهي نظرية فيزيائية ..
يعتقد هوكينج أنها نظرية كل شيء ..
01.11.2016: Stephen Hawking warns that the Higgs Boson field could collapse, resulting in a chain reaction that would take in the whole universe with it.  The nihilists have been right all along...M-theory: Doubts linger over godless multiverseSTEPHEN HAWKING'S new book The Grand Design sparked a furore over whether physics can be used to disprove the existence of God. But few have noted that the idea at the core of the book, M-theory, is the subject of an ongoing scientific debate – specifical
The nihilists have been right all along...M-theory: Doubts linger over godless multiverseSTEPHEN HAWKING'S new book The Grand Design sparked a furore over whether physics can be used to disprove the existence of God. But few have noted that the idea at the core of the book, M-theory, is the subject of an ongoing scientific debate – specifically over the very aspect of the theory that might scrap the need for a divine creator.That the laws of nature in our universe are finely tuned for life seems miraculous, leading some to invoke divine involvement.
Wake me up when you actually define M-Theory. (Which has yet to be defined)This was a short read that cost WAY TOO MUCH money.Any book I can read in a day should cost less than 9 dollars.
Having said that, I was troubled in reading this book.
From the beginning Hawking refers to 'elegance' as the most important factor in a scientific theory especially when talking about a theory of everything.
But elegance is not what I read.
I read a series of extremely intelligent theories true, but not a single one to explain everything.
And you will ask: Does the notion of God explain everything?
We would have a point of reference to make our complaints if it was a God. And if it was the Big Bang theory?
Looking for the next big theory or God I suppose..
If God exists in my model, it is true for my Universe, if he doesn’t in yours then God really is absent from yours.Hawking describes how St Augustine concluded that the Earth was young due to the ages of people in the bible, but at the time there was no recognised evidence to suggest otherwise.

After reading Bill Bryson's A Short History of Nearly Everything and Brian Greene's The Fabric of the Cosmos, I felt that I might finally be ready for my first Hawking book.
Despite my rudimentary understanding of quantum physics, I still gleaned a great deal from this book and would recommend it to anyone who is even mildly curious.
Those who have a more advanced education in physics may find this book too basic, especially the earlier chapters.Questions such as "What occurred before the big bang?" and "what instigated the creation of the universe?" are addressed in the last chapter, and the earlier chapters build up a nice base of prior research for those unfamiliar with m-theory.
Since an alien the size of a human would contain about a thousand trillion trillion particles even if the alien were a robot, it would be impossible to solve the equations and predict what it would do.
We would therefore have to say that any complex being has free will--not as a fundamental feature, but as an effective theory, an admission of our inability to do the calculation that would enable us to predict its actions.So basically free will is an illusion, but given our inability to tease out all the complex biological processes that contribute to behavior, it is a good working theory for practical purposes.
اشتريت الكتاب لأني بحب أقرأ مقالات متنوعة منها العلمية واللي بتتعلق بالكون ، وكمان بشاهد أفلام وثائقية تتعلق بنفس الموضوع . بس أنك تقرأ كتاب وتغوص في نظريات الفيزياء والرياضيات وعلم الأكوان، راح تكون قرأتك بطيئة وصعبة شوي . الكتاب بيحكي عن عدة نظريات تتعلق بنشوء الكون والنسبية، ويذكر الكتاب بعض الخرافات القديمة من الشعوب البدائية في الأرض.الكتاب جيد بناءً على استيعابي أنا وكذلك التقيم
التصميم العظيم ستيفن هوكينغ لا ارغب بحرق الكتاب و لا ارغب بأن اتخذ مسار ديني ومتعارف بأنه الخالق هو الله ، وآيات كثيرة بالقرآن وصفت أبداع الخالق في الكون ، وما الفيزياء إلا وصف لعظمة الخالق ، لا انكر احببت وصفه لبدايات نشوء الكون، لكن في نفس الوقت أحسست بأنه متناقض ، لا أريد الإسهاب أكثر ،لكي لا أضيع على القراء فرصة متعة قراءة الكتاب ، القارىء سيدرك ما كتبته أثناء القراءة . مجملا بعيداً عن هدف الكاتب من كاتبة الكتاب (بأن الكون نشأ لوحده بسبب عوامل فيزيائية) كان الكتاب جميل. 3 نجوم.
In fact, so far as we've evidence, writing first appeared about 6000 years ago, in Sumer in approximately 4000 BCE.To make matters worse the authors go on glibly to dismiss philosophy as defunct--not too surprising as their review of it doesn't display much familiarity with the discipline.Beyond this, I found the jokes peppering this slim volume condescending yet sophomoric, unfunny and far too frequent.As regards the physics, I'm hardly qualified the judge, lacking as I do the background in mathematics and research physics to evaluate their positions.
The Authors try to explain the origin and purpose of the universe from scientific point of view. At first we are told about the concept of formation of universe in the earlier times. From ancient Greeks to Galileo, Newton to Feynman , basic classical theories to the formulation of M-theory , this books tries to explain the fundamental questions related to Universe. It's a very good book if you are striving to comprehend the Universe scientifically . And the explanation is simple enough for a normal high school student to understand.
3.5
I did not find this book particularly easy to read, probably because I did not believe from the outset that I was going to be enlightened about our origins.Hawking states "Philosophy is dead", but scientists should be especially circumspect when trying to extrapolate their ideas into the humanities.
Contemporary readers are still able to detect an elusive thread of truth running through all great philosophical works, and that, like the great works of art, they certainly have not been superseded by developments in science.
Hawking advances M Theory as the key to explaining the universe.
I agree with Pliny (ancient wisdom that Hawking dismisses) who states the impossibility of measuring the universe or understanding how it arose.
I think the start of this book far exceeds the latter half. Which, for me, was an enormous slog to get through.
An interesting book is just about complex scientific phenomena and terms. Easy and interesting to read.-----------------------Цікава книга, просто про складні наукові явища та терміни. Легко та цікаво читається.
