https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1071726.The_Peregrine
"The Peregrine", first published in 1967, reads as the diary he kept during that period but may include observations made over the course of the many other winters which Baker spent following the movements of these birds.
It is important to point out from the beginning that even though this book is at first glance simply the diary of a bird watcher, it is also a novel with characters, setting, plot and suspense and therefore any liberties Baker takes with chronology, weather and sightings, are perfectly in order.
Having said that, this novel is presented exactly like a diary with entries only for those days he spends following the peregrines.
He walks around and looks at birds and writes about them real good
He does stray on a number of occasions into prose so purple a whole college of Bishops could dress themselves in it but there are so many breathtaking phrases that I could forgive him the odd clanger dropped.
A selection picked at random from the pages...you judge purple or perfect;'Their wings would rise into the sunset like smoke above the sacrifice'or again ' Beauty is vapour from the pit of death '...no I have no idea but it sounds like an aphorism in the makingor again ' the peregrine hissed among them like a burning brand 'or again ' She clings to the rippling fleece of the earth as the leaping hare cleaves to the wind'There are loads more.
It helps them with their lice problems.-- In a typical day, a peregrine will kill and eat two birds as well as assorted mice, worms and insects.Well, actually, they aren't picky; and the author was fairly obsessed with recording the detritus:-- found the remains of a great crested grebe .
His grey wings lay like flakes of beech bark beside the peeled willow of his shining yellow bones and the sunset feathers of his tigered breast.Descriptive dinner is on every page.But then there was this:At one o'clock a pipistrelle flittered above the lane, twisting and diving as though catching insects.
Day by day we follow Baker as he walks and bicycles a small patch of land, ten miles north to south and twenty miles east to west in Essex, observing peregrines.
The peregrines' movements become a dance, lovely to observe and emotionally feel, but nevertheless monotonous in the lack of change.
The narration I have given two stars.It should be noted that Baker observed peregrines over a ten-year period.
Yet one does not read Baker’s writing for its scientific content, or at least not only for its scientific content.
Baker’s writing is exceptional but also monotonous.
El narrador describe con laconismo sus paseos de observación del halcón peregrino.
Es por eso que más que el peregrino, interesa la voz del narrador, ahí radica la fascinación.
Parece que el narrador está enojado, en fuga.
La muerte que reparte el peregrino con actitud oligárquica le genera alivio al narrador.
Es un narrador desesperado que identifica la belleza con la muerte: “La belleza es vapor del foso de la muerte” (página 203).
Hay micro-relatos de cacería del peregrino, que siempre termina devorando la carne todavía palpitante de otros pájaros.
Creo que este libro exige una lectura densa.
Nunca se me hubiera ocurrido, creo, pensar a la luz del sol que se filtra por las ramas de los árboles como columnas.
Columnas de sol.
Estas y otras altísimas y mejores imágenes van llenando el increíble libro de Baker, quien obsesionado con el halcón peregrino, lo persigue por las zonas selváticas de Inglaterra hasta convertirse en uno.
Hacia el final, el yo que construye Baker, integrado totalmente a la naturaleza, transformado en un ave carnívora, se oculta del ruido de los hombres y duerme en huecos de los árboles.Hay que decir que la re pegó la editorial Sigilo con la traducción de este libro.
The sea breathed quietly, like a sleeping dog."Here is his description of the Peregrine's flight:"He flowed across the dazzling sky in one great slash of light, and flared out into the darkness of the trees."And another passage observing the bird:"He flew south, moving like a sleepwalker, gazing forward enrapt.
The sun shone upon him, and he gleamed like a shield of silver water, glowed purple-brown and wet like dark plough land after rain."A wonderful book, probably particularly of interest to bird lovers, but worth reading for the language alone.
Bird.
On the back jacket cover of the same edition, James Dickey states that the book "transcends any 'nature writing' of our time," while Barry Lopez declares the book to be "one of the most beautifully written, carefully observed and evocative wildlife accounts I have ever read." Werner Herzog called it the "one book I would ask you to read if you want to make films."The genesis of the book came about from the author's ten-year obsession with the peregrines that wintered near his home in Chelmsford, Essex and recounts a single year from October to April 1962/3.
What started as a fascination with all of the raptors in the region, rapidly became a passion before becoming a complete obsession.
Since then I have managed to work my way through an awful lot of natural history books by a lot of authors, a lot of which have been good, all the authors have been passionate about their chosen subject, but none have had that obsession that Baker has.
What you do get though is an observer who completely understands his subject describing that moment when they stop soaring about the fens and start the hunt to the sheer adrenaline of the stoop.
So when I get the Higgs boson blues something terrible and I am in a bad spot or life is just clinching its merciless little fist around me and squeezing squeezing something that always, without fail, cheers me up and/or sets my head a little straighter on neck is watching David Attenborough's nature specials- especially "The Life of [fill in the blank with type of animal here]"...
Then I'm just an innocent little animal like those hyenas cackling and devouring a buffalo corpse.
It's wonderful that Attenborough chose to do what he did with his life.
Is this book on birdwatching? A poetry tome? A nature lover's journal? An impressive example of the magic of paying attention? I think, all four and maybe even more. For me, the most fascinating part of this little diary is the focus of the observer, so deep that he becomes the thing he watches. Baker immerses you in a world in which you never had any interest before. It is a unique creation, slow, uneventful, repetitive yet somehow surprising, insightful, revealing.Oh, and it was recommended by Werner Herzog, so if you don't trust my word, trust his.
La víspera de una navidad Baker la pasa en medio del viento y el frío, buscando sin éxito encontrar a la pareja de peregrinos que veneraba desde la distancia.Tanto por la excelencia estilística de este libro como por el tono que se mantiene perfecto en todo momento más la subterránea trama de un drama personal que nunca es explicitado, esta obra es considerada el gold standard de la escritura sobre la naturaleza.
He trailed peregrines in eastern England, down by the bottom of the country over ploughed fields, estuaries, woodland paths, fields, farms, towns, and in the process also watched and was part with hundreds of other birds, field animals, flora, sky, and weather.
Very little is known about him, and what is claimed includes conflicting information)he courageously exposed his guts to all who would read this book.
He could walk among a town who have all read his book and be unknown, so free.
IF you read this book, and I hope you do, be sure to keep a bird book beside you.
Sometimes there's maybe too much fact, when it comes (do we really need the exact numbers of woodpigeons, lapwings and partridges killed by a peregrine in order to understand the bird's habits?
The book is often pure, boring fieldwork, but it is cast in the most intense, devotional prose; the subject of the bird is lifted out of the mundane by its particulars, which Baker curatorially provides in scientifically accurate detail.
As he rose higher, the hawk flew faster; but so light and deft was his wing flicker that he looked to be almost hovering, while the crow moved backwards and down." For bird lovers, this simple devotion to the peregrine may seem enough.
A stirring account of one man's year long relationship with one of my favorite animals on earth - the peregrine falcon.
So hard to review, this book is so beautiful and at the same time so completely repetitive.
It crosses so many genres; it's like a nearly 200 page prose poem that is part memoir, part natural history, part travel narrative.
The use of language is striking, and there are so many wonderful passages, but as the book moves along it's hard not to feel that all the pages sort of blend together.
Overall, a very well written if not overlong nature classic.
Baker goes into great detail about the countryside, other animals and every aspect of the peregrines life.
Baker was diagnosed as being very ill so he decided to dedicate his life to stalking these peregrines he had spotted.
In the end he does start to go feral, at times when writing about the peregrine his says "we" a lot, like he has become a bird too.
At times the book gets quite dark as he rants about the damage humans are doing.
Here is one of my favourite lines from the book when describing humans.
It sticks to us like frost.
Few books dance with language the way The Peregrine does.
The story is simple enough:a man spends his winters tracking peregrines over the marshes, fields, and estuaries of eastern England.
But that man, J.A. Baker, accomplishes something rare in the history of nature writing—he immerses himself so deeply in his search that he becomes the very thinghe seeks, finally coming to see the “pouring-away world of no attachment” through the peregrine’s eyes.
Published in 1967, only a few years after Rachel Carson exposed the toxicity of our agricultural practices, and with the peregrine in sharp decline across Britain, Baker’s book reads like the bird’s fiercely rhapsodic elegy.
Un libro interesante, que por momentos se puede volver un tanto pesado, pero esta lleno de poesía, pero la poesía involuntaria de los que no saben que la poseen. Una persona avista aves que asume ya no volverán. Sus notas al respecto, un diario formalmente dicho, se despliegan en estas páginas.En el contexto de la errática edición de Sigilo esto debe ser de lo mejor que tienen.
Mir ist das zu blumig-überladen, aber für ein Buch, das ich nicht mag, habe ich sehr viel Zeit damit verbracht (wegen https://twitter.com/Wanderfelsen).
Probably the finest natural history book I've ever read and a book of the highest literary merit in its own right. Some of the language is even more memorable than Proust. The wren 'like a little brown priest in a congregation of leaves.' Wonderful!
He was, by his own admission, new to birding and his book is based on diaries he kept of ten years of following a pair of peregrine hawks in the fields and marshes of Essex near Chelmsford, in Kent his home in England.
At the time of his writing, the peregrines were dying out as were many of the birds Baker observed due to the use of pesticides in England and he notes many examples of dead and dying birds that he comes across as he roams through the land.I am not normally interested in naturalist books but this one was so highly praised that I couldn't resist.
Through out the book, Baker brings alive all of the senses together in one set of verbs.
Baker brings us to the world he lives in - sounds, textures, specific Peregrines, the physicality of a kill" "A day of blood; of sun, snow, and blood.
I am not saying this is about how to write, or how we need to write, but about the power we can use when we understand the multiple layers of possibility in a word, a set of words.
Those of you who have read Melville with me or on your own recognize the multiple meanings Melville can generated through the understand of the etymology of a single word.
In The Peregrine J.A. Baker describes how he tracked and trekked over months and miles in his native England to watch and record in language like you've never read how peregrines hunt and feed and fly and play and rest.
The language he uses to construct his sentences is like none other I have ever read.
The text is so dense, the sentences are so packed with words bringing life to action--there really is no reading experience I can compare this to.
It's more than a book, it is a reading experience.

"His eyes were fixed on my face, and his head turned as he went past, so that he could keep me in view. He was not afraid, nor was he disturbed when I lowered and raised my binoculars or shifted my position. He was either indifferent or mildly curious. I think he regards me now as part hawk, part man; worth flying over to look at from time to time, but never wholly to be trusted; a crippled hawk, perhaps, unable to fly or to kill cleanly, uncertain and sour of temper"
This is a really wonderful book. Incredibly poetic nonfiction about a man who follows peregrines through the countryside through the seasons. And that's it - that is the story. Throughout the book, the narrator becomes a part of the landscape of the hawks and seems to become one as well. The book's repetitions and poetry bring us back to an older world of sagas. This is not a "modern" book at all. It is a book about how nature can transform us with that rare commodity - attention.
I liked this book a great deal. I know the country described here and I have always been fascinated by the bird and animal life here. He evokes the mystery of the peregrine in an area that many would dismiss as either suburban (which it is on the fringes) or low flat land with little topographical interest. The author manages to combine a near mystical evocation of a predatory bird with vivid and perceptive writing about the Essex landscape. It is unmissable and a book to which I return.
And if you want beef, then bring the ruckusThis Peregrine ain't nuttin ta fuck with
