https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45244.Judas_Unchained
No doubt, Hamilton spends considerable time on details and minor plot points, but he does it so well and adds so many interesting bits about the universe that it never seems to drag.
In addition to Hamilton's superb writing, the two greatest attributes on the novel are (1) the incredibly detailed, complex plot, the gradual but steady advancement of which is the common thread throughout the story and (2) the universe of the "Commonwealth" that is as good as any I have ever seen in science fiction (yes including giants like Dune and The Foundation Trilogy).
Justine played a large role in Pandora's Star but, without spoiling anything, after a certain development, Hamilton almost forgot she existed in Judas Unchained.
The whole thing evolved at a natural timescale and pace until the end.There are a few things I would have liked to learn more about.
I would have liked more detail about the SI, Barsoomians, High Angel, and raeil species.My last issue with this book (both actually) is the length and the pacing at the end.
Because of all of that padding and detail, the end of Unchained felt really rushed and didn't feel like a conclusion.
If you have read Pandora's Star previously starting on Judas Unchained should feel like coming home, as there would be no need to familiarize yourself with the settings or characters.
This book is basically about alien invasion and how humanity fend them off whereas the previous volume is more concerned with "WTF is going on?" Like most epic fiction the story features a large cast of characters and several protagonists, the plot is moved forward by switching the narrative between them.
I have a love/hate relationship with Peter Hamilton's books.
In four centuries, for example, NO ONE has even attempted to unseat Nigel Sheldon from his position as head of the Sheldon dynasty?
(This is a problem in fantasy stories, too.) On the plus side, I do tip my hat to Hamilton for not allowing the humans to save themselves with an alien "deus ex machina." Ozzie's adventures in "Wonderland" (i.e., the silfen paths) do bring him to the adult silfen and he does find out the origins of the Dyson barriers but the knowledge doesn't really help anyone defeat the Primes.
But I should mention that each of these books is roughly the equivalent of four normal novels EACH.
A slight digression is more of a novel-length wander.
There's full-flung mil-SF, political intrigue SF, murder-mystery and spy SF, revolutionary thriller SF, media-scoop SF, as well as hardcore alien Hard-SF with Big Dumb Objects galore, miniature wormhole attacks, rejuvenation, memory cores so you can get a new body, as well as a LOT of nova'd stars.
I'm going to rate-up the previous novel and wholeheartedly recommend BOTH books with this caveat.
After I finished  Pandora's Star , I ordered this sequel online and began it soon after it arrived at my doorstep. This is significant, because while I do not adhere religiously to the general order of my to-read list, I try to follow it in good faith. I couldn't wait over a year to read Judas Unchained, so despite my general moratorium on buying books, I made an exception. And I'm glad I did. Judas Unchained is off the frelling chain!As with my review for Pandora's Star, I'll try to keep this o
There are plenty of predictable elements (such as the identity of the Starflyer agent within Paula's old team), but just when you think you have everything figured out, Hamilton works in a little twist.The Starflyer subplot, which actually kind of becomes the main plot in the second part of the book, is the most interesting part of the story, for me.
Hamilton has the ability to make me excited about reading a story in the way that few books or authors do.
So Pandora's Star and Judas Unchained aren't for everyone, but if you do like action-packed science-fiction stories about interstellar conflicts, weird alien mentalities, and wormhole-hopping, then you've got a winner here.
So it should come as a bit of a surprise to me (and you, if you know me) that I am inspired, nay, compelled to submit a review of Judas Unchained (and the Commonwealth Saga of which it is the ass-end).
But I resolved to never, EVER, read anything by Hamilton again.As some say, “that which does not kill us has the capacity to horribly disfigure.” Time passed, and there really is a dearth of good space opera.
If you are into space opera, have exhausted all other options, don’t mind reading books that are too long full of characters who suck but who have cool toys and blow things up this might be worth your while.
Executive Summary: An enjoyable conclusion to the Commonwealth Duology. I plan to check out the Void trilogy at some point in the future.Audio book: John Lee once again does a great job. He doesn't do voices, but he's got a great reading voice that I could listen to for hours and seems well suited to Space Opera. I'm excited to see he reads the Void series for Tantor as well as a few other books I plan to check out. Full Review This is a long one, but overall I enjoyed it. I think this works bes
If I were reading it, I might start skimming or something.This book picks up right where Pandora's Star leaves off, so you'll want to read that first before jumping into this one.We're introduced to a few new POV characters in this one, to go along with some old favorites (of mine anyways) like Ozzy and Paula Myo.I think Mr. Hamilton does a good job in not only tying up all the loose ends but merging the various story lines together into a cohesive finale.There were some parts of Pandora's Star that felt superfluous (I'm looking at you Hang Gliding scene!) or just more background and depth that felt necessary (like the whole murder/disappearing bodies subplot) that suddenly clicked in with this book.The real enjoyment for me wasn't necessarily the space battles, the politics or the aliens, but just the Commonwealth itself and the people we meet.
(view spoiler)[So, just as she starts to move out of navigating the world entirely through sex - something which read, in the first book, a lot like a coping mechanism after abuse/exploitation, which Morton's relationship with her pretty clearly was - she gets dragged into another scheme and pimped out, quite literally, to Ozzie's teenaged compannion, Orion.
As much as I’m ok with big books this story between the two books racked up a 700000 plus word count.
There was one death in particular that really left Hamilton off the hook – I guess when you are near the end of a 1000 page book which is the last part of a 2000 plus page story, asking the reader to sit through another 500 pages so you can wrap up all your arcs properly is a big ask.Also, I would have liked to have known more about the SI, its motives, it's personality, what it's goals are exactly.
Hamilton's science is the kind I like to read and immerse myself in: realistic with a good sprinkling of sci-fi magic here and there to keep the reader wondering.
The story starts where it's left off in Pandora's Star, and one surprising thing I noticed was that it pretty much moved forward with only brief reminders of what had happened in the first book (which I liked because reminders tend to bog down stories as I've seen happen in other series).
The only thing I didn't like about this book is its length.
I've read many which are just as long as the Commonwealth series.
There is no way, really, that the two books can be read separate from one another.The war between the Commonwealth and the Prime was always going to reach critical mass in this novel, and this is more or less what happens.
There is a lot of political manoeuvring in these novels, with the different dynasties reminding me at least a little of the great houses of Frank Herbert’s Dune universe.
The cliff-hanger ending of Pandora’s Star is addressed fairly quickly.
However, despite all this, I didn’t quite enjoy it as much as Pandora’s Star.
En esta tesitura, me recuerda al segundo volumen de Endymion de Dan Simmon, ‘El ascenso de Endymion’, donde sucedía lo mismo: demasiada paja y mucho miedo por parte de los autores por no querer recortar cuando sea necesario.La historia de la Federación compuesta por estos dos volúmenes, ‘La estrella de Pandora’ y ‘Judas desencadenado’, se queda en 1600 páginas de letra minúscula.
Si a ‘La estrella de Pandora’, que es una gran novela de ciencia ficción, le hubiera añadido lo más elemental del segundo libro, todo hubiese quedado más fluido, y no hubiese importado nada que la historia se hubiese quedado en un novelón de 1000 páginas.
Here is why: * The novel starts with a long series of dialogues, investigation type, and the first real action scene doesn't happen before page 184.
Probably because the world in JU is exactly like the one described in Pandora's Star.
* Another reason for the overall slow pace of JU is that after reading Pandora's Star, readers know that the Starflyer is dangerous (it's even stated on the back cover of JU).
* I enjoyed reading Ozzie's extensive trek away from the Commonwealth, but even in Pandora's Star it was obvious that he was destined to save the day and it is exactly what happens.
Combined with 'Pandora's Star' this is by far the longest and most detailed space opera I have ever read.
There's not even a hint of a conclusion at the end of Pandora's Star, so you have to read both together.
There is just so much going on that you really have to be paying close attention to read them.
Not the sort of books that could be called 'light reading'.
If you enjoy space opera, then this is a masterwork of that genre and I can whole heatedly recommend the two books.
He must really like that idea because it is used ad nauseum.
It is crammed with exciting, imaginative, believable ideas and concepts.
Interesting, recognizable, likeable or despicable characters abound.
A ruthless, implacable alien enemy, who definitely underestimates human ingenuity and resilience.
Liberal peacenik environmental wackos converted to hardcore guerilla resistance when the enemy blasts their little paradise.
Bloodthirsty “kill them all and let god sort ‘em out” fanatics forced to reconsider their plan for enemy annihilation.
He stuffs a lot of extra stories and characters not essential or pertinent to the main story but I didn’t mind.
You know that feeling you had in college after you finished your last final before vacation?
Well, that’s the feeling I had after finally finishing the Commonweath Saga the other night.
Pandora’s Star and Judas Unchained should essentially be viewed as one LONG book, nearly 2000 pages long in fact.
It is chock full of wildly creative ideas, complex and wonderfully textured worlds and alien races, and some Douglas Adams-like higher level whimsy.
The wormhole as commuter rail concept, for example, is especially creative, opening up alien worlds like suburbs, instantly making spaceship travel obsolete and making the galaxy feel like our own well connected Travelocity world.
There is one glaring issue with the book, however: the climactic battle involves whether to use a weapon which will completely wipe out the MorningLightMountain star system - destroying the star itself, and putting a final end to the threat that the Prime had been to all of human civilization, and the option of re-enclosing the system in the Dyson sphere is portrayed as a more-humane, more moral, non-genocidal [sic: properly xenocidal] option.This is, of course, idiotic frippery.MorningLightMountain was directly responsible for the deaths of millions of humans, and the destruction of all earth-normative life on 71 planets (via induced solar flare to sterilize the systems).
2. It is always annoying when authors have their sex fantasies acted out in books.
It's even more annoying when these sex fantasies involve cardboard cut-out characters that seem to have no real personalities.
But the real icing on the cake of annoyance is when the author writes 2,000 pages worth of story and has these sex fantasies ever 2-3 chapters, in between important parts of the story.
If he would have just pruned out all his sex fantasies, the books would have been at least 100 pages shorter and they would be 4 star even with the cardboard characters.
One of the advantages of such a long story, and I include Hamilton’s ‘Pandoras Star’ as part of this story, is that you can revisit forgotten characters and events from the earlier pages to great dramatic effect later on.
After my second reading of this pair of novels, I now hold a greater respect for the structural planning that went into it’s plot line and pacing.As the publisher’s blurb informs us, the story focuses on a society under threat from both an external and internal alien threat.
There isn’t any new insight into alien biology or psychology compared with the first novel, but many of the human characters are explored and evolved further.
This book - sequel to Pandora's Star - defies genres and contains elements of science fiction, space opera and mystery.
My Synopsis: While more and more people are beginning to believe that the Guardians of Selfhood have been correct all along about the existence of the Starflyer, the Prime launch an all-out attack to take over the Commonwealth and wipe out as many humans as possible, and enslave the remainder.
Will the Guardians of Selfhood be able to stop the Starflyer from taking off in its starship?
If you made it through Pandora's Star, you will definitely need to keep going with Judas Unchained.
If they had tacked Chapter 1 of Judas Unchained onto the end of Pandora's Star, you wouldn't tell the difference.
And in Judas Unchained, you get all the benefits of Pandora's Star without the confusing three hundred pages of introduction.Judas Unchained continues the story of the Commonwealth as they battle against aliens both in and outside of their civilization.
There's enough of them to keep things going.
But, even at a total of 2,000 pages for both books, I would say it is worth it.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
Is it good?
Not sure.The best is still the world-building: I can't remember any sci-fi that can rival it and only the best heavyweights in fantasy could beat such a complex (but feasible!) world.Not all good, since in this second book the characters start feeling a bit flat: Everyone seems to behave the same way, just with different goals.But the main issue of the whole endeavour is that, although everything adds together at end (which is an achievement in itself), it feels a bit like that, just "adding".
It might be because the storyline is massive but not too deep: I was expecting more twists along the ride, but it's more like a slow convergence of plotlines.Conclusion: It's superiorly well crafted, but low on surprises.
An amazing read but this one went on too long. I still recommend reading it, but only if you've read Pandora's Star first.
The end of Pandora’s Star is a massive cliffhanger and the story picks right back up in Judas Unchained, so I would recommend reading the two volumes back to back.With the invention of wormhole technology by straight arrow Nigel Sheldon and eccentric Ozzie Isaacs, traditional space exploration (vacuum, spaceships, all that kind of thing) is all but abandoned.
Rail lines running between worlds through wormholes are the only means of interstellar transport, and humanity is rapidly expanding to many planets.Hamilton seems to have been inspired by Morgan’s Altered Carbon when it comes to rejuvenation technology, although there are differences.
The true genius of Hamilton is that his universe is not populated by 20th Century humans living long lives and using wormholes.
Pandora's Star: Second Half of a Massive, 2,000 page Space OperaThis is a very long, detailed, imaginative, and sprawling epic space opera that involves dozens of characters, plots, advanced technologies, alien races, ancient galactic mysteries, nefarious plots and counterplots, all told in an engaging narrative that doesn't get bogged down in exposition like a lot of other hard SF stories.
The human characters here remain far more human than the cold post-humans of Reynolds, which sometimes strains credulity, as they regularly make contemporary cultural references and seem not so different from us, which seems unlikely 300 years from now in a galactic society, but that largely lies in how you would imagine future humans will be like.
The story wraps out properly in this book but the whole starflyer conspiracy felt like a red herring to me due to the fact because we do not get its pov throughout the book.Some of the weak points of the book were1.Micro managing the story.2.Lot of uninteresting pov characters.Some of the strong points of the book are1.Story wraps up properly.Let me elaborate on the above points1.Micro managing the story.The strength of the last book has basically become a weakness in this book due to the fact that Hamilton spends too much time describing how things are getting effected due to what event is taking place, instead of focusing on the event.
His Night's Dawn series, all two million words or so of it, was great when I was younger- kind of Dickens meets Asimov, with billions of characters, subplots that zip around an immense and vivid universe, alien aliens, etc.Hamilton was one of the first of the new space opera writers from the UK but his work at both novel (and series) level and his short fiction was limited to one main universe.
Indeed democracy is generally a liability to the decision making process.The wormhole conceit that structures the book's universe is well fleshed out- Hamilton is probably the most complete world builder in SF today and he's at the top of his game in that arena here.
The sheer size makes them difficult to complete and as a result to truly love.
It is probably because with so many characters and story lines the main plot of this huge endeavor is lessened.
I felt a bit annoyed that I spent so much time getting there that the work was not worth the outcome.That being said Hamilton is a master story teller and his high concept science fiction is amazing.
His world building is simply incredible and makes a sci-fi dream.
The sheer size and to me anti climactic ending keep it from earning full marks.
