https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/181400.The_Tale_of_Three_Trees
Holy balls is there a good message in this clever, twist-filled fable. Although it's rife with religious overtones, it isn't preachy.Must read!
One of my favorite children's books!
Each voices a dream: one wants to become a treasure chest, one wishes to be a strong sailing ship, and the last wishes "to grow so tall that when people stop to look at me they will raise their eyes to heaven and think of God." When three woodcutters climb their hill, the first two trees believe they are about to fulfill their dreams, while the third is dismayed.
The third becomes the Cross upon which Jesus is crucified -- so "every time people thought of the third tree, they would think of God."This lovely tale illustrates the truth that although God's decisions regarding the lives of His creations may seem inscrutable, He is always working for good purposes (Romans 8:28).
I came across this at a free book table during a children's event and picked it up for my girls.
I had no idea what it was about, but it was one of the only age appropriate books I could find.
I wasn't expecting the Christian theme at all, but I loved the message, and how each tree fulfilled its dream in a way that helped Jesus.
It brought up some good talking points with my girlies, both about how the trees got what they wanted in ways that were not expected, and about different aspects of the story of Jesus Christ.
Christianity-themed book about serving your greater purpose with grace.
This is one of those children's books that many adults love, but kids don't like. It's not very well written, and reads like a cheesy Christian e-mail forward. The trees have thoughts and feelings, even when they are cut down and sawed into boards. That's really weird when you think about it.
A great story of three trees and their wishes and how the reality of what they became was much more than they ever could’ve thought possible. An old folktale with beautiful illustrations.
This is a sweet Christmas story that I read with my partner and his mom on Christmas eve.
You could read this anytime, but it'd have special significance around Easter, Christmas, or a boat trip.
I love this book ! It’s one of my all time favorites to read at Christmas time but I can’t get through it without crying... ever!
Read this as a buddy activity with Gr. 1 and Gr. 7 students. Both groups of kids really enjoyed it. Powerful message.
I had never heard this folktale story. It's a beautiful story and well illustrated and I LOVED it.I felt joy after reading it.
One of my absolute favorite stories when I was little. Love this book!
One of my friends loaned this to me. She read it to her five-year-old son, and he understood the story long before they got to the end. Of course, I had to read it. How precious.
I loved this book; it is one of my new favorites!I loved it, because it filled my heart with hope.In the end the three trees get more than they wanted. When we wish or dream sometimes the outcome of that wish or dream is better than we imagined. Another reason I loved it is, because it reminds me of how precious Jesus Christ's life was. I will certainly read this book again, especially around Christmas time or Easter.
I had totally forgotten about this book & came across it at Lifeway tonight while I was looking for a baby dedication gift. It is such a sweet book and I cried reading it. Sometimes we may not be where we think we should but God has a greater plan for us .... Just like he did for the three trees. Now, I have to go buy a copy for every child I know!
Comprei-o para oferecer à Jojo no NATAL!Só me apareceu cá em casa passados meses.Tive curiosidade e fiquei encantada.Um simples conto cristão com uma mensagem lindíssima e com ilustrações para olhar e sonhar.PS - Foi oferecido à Jojo com um pedido de desculpas por tamanho atraso :(
I remember really liking this one in my evangelical days.
Love this story.
So good. made me cry. Something I would use for an Elementary Christian Curriculum.
Just a truly amazing story which is beautifully written... and you cannot help but be touched by it.
This is a beautiful story we like to read together as a family around Easter time, but it's appropriate for Christmas, too. Beautiful pictures and words!!
Review can also be found at: http://bookinkreviews.blogspot.com/This is one of my absolute favorite Christian children's books.
Now that I have a little one of my own, I love reading this story to her.
We follow three little growing trees that have very big dreams.
If you want a perfect Easter, Christmas, or every day story to tell your children about Christ in ways they will understand, this is your book.
My little one is still very young and this keeps her entertained with all of the colors.
If you have very young children, it may be better to break it up into bits before each bedtime.
It is the story of three trees that have big dreams.
They each have a goal or an idea of what they would like to be and when the time comes for them to be chopped down, they soon discover that their plans don't work out the way they hoped...or do they?
Eventually everything turns out for the trees and while they did not become exactly what they wanted at first, the route that leads them to their final destination is exactly what they wanted all along.
This story which has been retold is one of perseverance and hope which is a great lesson for both kids and adults.
Traditional LiteratureEarly Primary (K-1)/ Primary (2-3)This book has such a strong message. I remember be read this book when I was little and in Sunday School. I love how each tree doesn't fulfill their dreams in the way that they think they will, but that they end up fulfilling them even better than they could have ever imagined they would. I think it's such a well written story, very simple but so powerful. I also love the illustrations in this book. Again, they're simple but they're so powerful.
I really like this book. In it, there are three trees. The first tree wants to be a treasure chest, filled with treasure. The second tree wants to be a mighty boat, carrying powerful kings. The third tree wants to stay on the hill, and whenever someone looks at her, she wants them to look up to heaven. Later, they all get cut down, the first tree into a manger the second into a fishing boat, and the third, into lost of beams. Thy will still get what they want. Read this book! It is really good.
The Tale of Three Trees by Angela Hunt11/28/185/5Historical Fiction, Grades 4-5This is probably my all time favorite book that is written for children.
Growing up, my parents read me this story almost every night.
When you first start reading this book, you do no expect what is to come.
When you read the end, it hits you like a brick.
The realization of what the third tree is surprised me, but also made me instantly love this book.
I would highly recommend this book to anyone, even if you are to young to read!
Have this book read to you.
I have never heard of this traditional folktale but was very surprised at how much I enjoyed it. Three trees wish for what they want to be in their life. Their wish comes true, but not in the way they thought it would. This is a great book to read for all ages that has a strong message in it as well.
Beautiful folktale which reveals that sometimes your wishes aren't God's. He may have even better plans for you. "For generations the tale of three trees has been handed down from parents to children, retold in churches at Christmas and Easter; and even set to music and sung. As is often true of folktales, its originator is unknown. To this person, I am deeply grateful." - Angela Elwell Hunt
I wasn’t prepared for the heart-swelling emotion evoked by this very simple folktale as I read it to my five-year-olds. They really enjoyed it as well. They enjoyed postulating what the objects were that the trees became before the book revealed each one’s true purpose. I had this stored in our Christmas book box, but I think I will keep it on the bookshelf year round.
