https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/634751.Adventures_in_Two_Worlds
My first introduction to this author, though certainly not the last.Absolutely loved his style, unique command of Englishthat made reading pure pleasure.Two of his books were made into movies.Based on this autobiographical book, the BBC ran an ongoing series, Dr. Finlay.
Amazing human interest stories from Scotland, Wales, London, Europe.Found it in the lounge library while searching for Scottish authors for the Scotland Reading Challenge 2013.Frustrated my original and lengthy review seems lost - a repeat occurence at goodreads it seems - perhaps just my experience?
Anyway, a book worth reading and appreciating the elegant and descriptive writing.
From the male perspective which I tend to appreciate when relationships are part of the story...
Арчибълд Кронин описва своите “Приключения в два свята”http://www.knigolandia.info/2011/04/b...
Обикновено търся информация за дадена книга, след като съм я прочел, за да не си създавам предварителни очаквания.
Голям почитател съм на Кронин, безспорно, “Замъкът на шапкаря” и “Цитаделата” са великолепни романи, далеч над самодостатъчното писане, а прекрасни огледала на епохата си.
Затова и “Приключения в два свята” ме подлъга – главният герой се бори с живота по начин, изключително наподобяващ този на д-р Андрю Менсън от “Цитаделата”, и само с лекото си недоволство за подобните сюжети аз усърдно продължих да следя неговите странствания из Англия, докато успява да наложи лекарската си практика сред висшите кръгове в Лондон.
A book I first read many years ago, in the late 1950s or early 1960s, and in those days, being an aspiring writer, I found it very interesting to learn the story of how Cronin started out as a doctor, how he came to start writing, and, I suppose, how he turned his experiences as a doctor into books. I have not re-read the book for quite a long time, but I recall that I found it very instructive and inspiring.
Supposedly autobiographical effort by Cronin bears all-too-close resemblance to the lives of real life general practitioners Bill Simpson and Ben Cross (as seen on TV in Dr Finlay's Casebook and The Citadel respectively)). Should be compulsory reading for patients, particularly the worried well who get short shrift in this pre-NHS account, and anyone considering becoming a doctor can breathe a sigh of relief that the good old days portrayed here are well and truly over.
This book had interesting stories from various parts of Dr. Cronin's life - many from when he practiced medicine, some from his writing days and others from touring Europe after WWII. It ended with his religious views. I enjoyed it and found it very interesting, but was disappointed that it really lacked many details of his personal life - I found that a little odd for an autobiography. I have read a couple of his books, and will probably read some others.
Книгата ми хареса, макар и да не блести с уникален стил и проникновена мъдрост. Въвежда читателя в един дрег свят, който е бил жив и вибрирал едва преди 60-70 години. Свят, в който медицината се е практикувала по съвсем друг начин и е била едва-едва докосната от ефекта на солидарните фондове.Едва в самия край човек си дава сметка, че книгата е автобиографична и Кронин разказва за собствения си живот.
A master storyteller and thoroughly decent chap recounts very selectively his autobiography, including parts that obviously fuelled his Dr Finlay books, which I've previously much enjoyed. Just bought another of his novels to continue in his company.
Kertomuksia kahdesta maailmasta
I really enjoyed traveling with AJ Cronin through his schooling and career as a medical doctor.
He was very ethical and the stories were moving.
He expressed how even though they had such a hard life, family times and laughter and God played a huge part in their lives.
He told many of his experiences with different patients with humor and realism.
Also, gave us insight into his home life and marriage to his sweet wife.
I have read several of his books and it's clear to see that much of his writing came from his life experiences.
Good book!
I finally got around to this one in the middle of a binge of British memoir-reading and was sorry I hadn't read it earlier. The author was a doctor in the first half of the 1900s, and he writes a bit like James Herriott, except with people instead of animals. He later wrote several works of fiction based on his own experiences and became a popular author in his day. His works were used in both TV and film, and I enjoyed the book quite a lot. It's recommended for anyone with an interest in medicine.
This is A. J. Cronin's autobiography of his life beginning at graduation from medical school in Scotland, through his life as a newly married doctor in Wales, to his new career as a successful novelist in England. His story is fascinating,and his style is for those who appreciate excellent descriptions and are willing to learn a few new words. This is a refreshing trip back into the early to middle part of the twentieth century. I loved it.
Interesting insight...Learnt a lot more about the man than I expected. Again I have to criticize the book for the reproduction. There were far too many spelling mistakes and typo errors. Punctuation errors as well. I have now downloaded several Cronin books but every one has had the same faults. I don't think the author would be pleased.
Hmmm...I don't know what to say about this except that I enjoyed every minute of it. It surprises you at times, but its worth it. This man clearly led two lives, but everyone around him clearly became better for it.
This is A.J. Cronin's autobiography written in 1952. He was a very interesting individual. He was a doctor of medicine for almost half his life and then became a novelist. He was successful at both.
I very much like that autobiography of Dr. A. J. Cronin in which he speaks with much humour aout his life
the first english novel i read with my heart..
Excellent! Recommend to read this book to not only my doctor friends and colleague but also the rest.
The best book ever, ever to make you feel right again.
Wonderful, thought-provoking, real. I feel like I've met him. I feel like I’m going through a little of what he did. Imagine that - life.
Really good
В голяма степен повтаря сюжета на "Цитаделата" и "Пътят на доктор Шенън", но въпреки това е много приятна за четене. Понеже съм чела другите две в младежките си години повторението не ми пречи.
Memoir of a remarkable man...
This is his autobiography.....excellent!
