https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40611999-career-of-evil
No doubt he wants her back, and that's what the phone message Matthew deleted was all about, but we'll have to wait to find out until Lethal White for sure (hide spoiler)].I pretty much stand by the rest of my thoughts.
(He's very clearly attracted to Robin, but knows he should keep it professional, at the same time his attraction to her definitely magnified his rage with the firing incident.) Will Robin stay married to Matthew until his thing with the message deletion and the rest of his asshattery is revealed?
(hide spoiler)]I think I'm going to have to just wait for the next book, and hope for the best.
No doubt whoever well read the stories of Cormoran Strike will really feel how deep and interesting character he is..I always imaged him as Hugh Jackman, but since that I had a big backlash comments about him I changed the main photo to -BASED ON FRIENDS and GOODREADS USERS COMMENTS that mentioned other actors both on my Silkworm and this novel's pre review, I choose the most accurate ones..Also Thank you Steph for the mention in your blog, and the idea of the particular scene of X-Men I used for Strike portrait.It was great How Mr. Robert Galbraith described the deep feelings for a lone wolf, who had a broken heart before , not that social, haunted by his past and infamous life of his mother..and has this complicated relation with his businesses partner 'Robin'..you can clearly see how he defend himself of admitting he truly loves her without writing direct lines, you will observe that through his actions with Robin.Strike is really interesting character, and so is Robin..so is all the characters that been mentioned before but get bigger role this time..
(A-) 82% | Very GoodNotes: Wherein accents abound, people play pretend, men hurt women in many different ways, and Robin is really Batman.
SOLID.This series is definitely my favorite when it comes to the audiobooks... They're just so well done! The narrator perfectly does all of the different accents, and he sounds exactly how I would picture Cormoran Strike to sound. Audiobook comments aside, this book was pretty great! I really look forward to rereading these books in the future so I can see all of the foreshadowing I'm sure is sprinkled throughout the books, which is something Rowling is notorious for.
DAT ENDING!WHY?????
Sadly, I felt it as a recoil in the book series.  BACKGROUND I was quite excited to read this third novel in the Cormoran Strike book series, since I had enjoyed plenty enough, however I think that this third novel was like a retrogression in what the book series was able to accomplish and to develop so far.The Cuckoo’s Calling was slow pacing, drifting to irrelevant sub-plots, over detailed filling scenes and repetitive situations, along with having more pages than necessary, BUT I was adamant
The second novel was intense, focused on the case, each scene was different, even the book was thinner, adding the use of the book publishing industry, easily this book turned to be the best in the series (clearly having in mind that there were only two in the series, so far) but also a “must-read” to any J.K. Rowling fan (yes, it’s her, just in case you are the last one to know that “Robert Galbraith” is just a pseudonym), since I felt it as a very personal book by her, showing light to many feelings from her about the craziness amd intrigue involved in the industry of publishing books.
Best one in the series yet!
Due to the fact that there are only four real suspects that are provided by Strike - and that the killer gets his own POV sections in which you see some of the murders happen - this mystery isn't particularly interesting or fun to solve.
The Strike/Robin relationship is further developed in this book, which is good because otherwise this would have been 400 pages of stakeouts interspersed with scenes of horrific assaults.
This also bothered me because it felt like a cheap way to explain why Robin and Matthew are still together.
On one hand, yes, the Robin/Strike relationship is what keeps me going through these books.
I had two hectic weeks at work and home and had no time to read and even less to review.
I hope to be able to catch up with my challenge and reviews in the following days.Career of Evil is the third volume in Cormoran Strike series and in case you did not know, written by wonderful J.K. Rowling under the pen name of Robert Galbraith.
They are to be read in order as the personal life of the characters is mingled with the murder mystery.
There is a big difference between Career of Evil and the first two books, namely, the duo is chasing a serial killer this time.
In terms of characters, Cormoran is back being his usual awesome self, and there are some great new characters introduced in this book (hi, Shanker!), but the real badass is Robin.
As someone who reviewed this book in a newspaper said, their cautious non-courtship is so entertaining.On the subject of relationships, WHAT THE FUCK ARE YOU THINKING, ROBIN?
And it reaffirmed my love for Robin, who is as great a female character in any book I've ever read.*** UPDATE ***Ok so I've had a few more days to think about this book, and there is one thing in particular that I really need to get off my chest.
Set in 2011 (one year after Robin has begun working for Cormoran Strike and during the time of the royal wedding), the story opens with the ramblings of a serial killer who's identity is a mystery to the reader.
Robin Ellacott has been sent a female severed leg in the mail and the dynamic duo decide to hunt down this killer while the police are heading in what Strike considers a dead end.
I loved how the author really developed Strike and Robin's relationship deeper than both the previous novels together.
And on the other hand, I am overwhelmed and happy.I can only say more than positive things about writing and character development.
Anyway, her private life takes a few big turns, making  Career of Evil  even more exciting, seeing how her relationship with her fiancé Matthew, and her boss Strike develope.Now to the suspects.
Rowling/Galbraith spins and intricates a web of false trails, which lead to dead ends and confusion.
The crime stories and their outcomes were more satisfying, in my opinion.Nevertheless, that ending was incredible and I can't wait for the fourth book, and the BBC TV adaption!
Honestly, a bit perplexed by this one. The character development was spot on, even though I'm not necessarily a fan of where I think the relationship is going between Strike & Robin. And the mystery in the end left me kind of confused. But the writing is impeccable and diving into any of Rowling's books feels like going home. I just can't get enough of her stories. This is more like a 3.5 stars but I'll round it up to 4 because I still thoroughly enjoyed it.
Career of Evil (Cormoran Strike #3), Robert Galbraith (Pseudonym), J.K. RowlingCareer of Evil is the third novel in the Cormoran Strike series, written by J.
K. Rowling and published under the pseudonym Robert Galbraith.
It is preceded by The Cuckoo's Calling and The Silkworm; it will be followed by Lethal White.
The novel was released on 22 October 2015 in the United Kingdom.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دهم دسامبر سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: رد پای شیطان - کتاب سوم؛ نویسنده: جی.کی.
Seeing the blurb for this book made me have this reaction:Reading this book made me have this reaction:In some ways, this book was less intense than the impossibly disgusting, Hannibal-level grossness of The Silkworm.
I might just find myself listening to a lot of Blue Oyster Cult after reading this book, just to get a better idea what this killer likes.
Is it one of those accents that's impossible to fake if you're not a local?
Maybe it is, but now I gotta try, don't I?Now to sit back and wait for the fourth Strike book...it's gonna be another great one, I'm sure.
Where it really excels is in characterisation with in depth backstories of Cormoran and his history with the three main suspects in this story and his relationship with Shanker, his offbeat and eccentric friend.
The police focus on who Cormoran feels is the least likely suspect, so he and Robin investigate the others.
The investigation takes Cormoran and Robin all round the country as more murders take place on what is a dangerous trail.
Under the microscope is Cormoran and Robin's relationship as they get closer whilst Robin's wedding plans continue to gather pace.
K. Rowling, seems to be the only author that can make me truly interested in crime stories, because normally they bore me as well as frustrate me (I can never seem to guess who the murderer is).
I felt safe among some of my favourite characters, Robin and Strike, and because of them I read most of this book with a smile on my face.
The murder case in itself interested me, but as is the case with the other two books as well, it was the relationship between Robin and Strike that kept me glued to the pages.
Cormoran Strike...en zijn partner Robin Ellacott...weergaloze, satirisch getinte detective. Het leest als een trein...vlot geschreven, vlot gelezen...hierin ligt ook de kracht van het verhaal.Ik heb genoten!!
The investigator, Cormoran Strike, is upset that his female partner was exposed to such a brutal discovery – for it was she the package was addressed to – but he thinks he can boil the list of perpetrators down to one of four men.
This is definitely a book that can be read as a stand-alone.I listened to the tale on audio, brilliantly read by British actor Robert Glenister.
He brought each of the characters to life and skillfully delivered all the required accents.
I always look forward to picking up a book by J.K. Rowling.
A truly talented author.Career of Evil is the third in a series which hopefully will be a long one!
The two main characters, Stryke and Robin, are wonderful and the trials and tribulations of their relationship are handled beautifully, to the point where this reader at least continues to think about them long after the book is finished!
Some new characters pop up too and the mystery is thrilling, well paced and cleverly written.
Looking forward to that and also the next book.
This is irritating, especially given that major portions of the novel just deal with Robin and Strike trying to avoid a conversation about their relationship.Strike is a character I’ve never been able to get truly attached to, but that was not much of a concern seeing as how these are ultimately mystery novels and it doesn’t matter if I love him or not because he’s just a detective and all I cared about was that he did his job.
JK Rowling continues to astonish me.
First, of course, with her Harry Potter books she created a world to which I return over and over as a delighted and bedazzled reader.
Her accomplishment with that series marks her as a once-in-a-generation storyteller.But she also writes adult mystery/crime novels under the pseudonym of Robert Galbraith.
And they are very, very good, especially this one, her third that follows the adventures of private detective Cormoran Strike.
I'm astonished at and grateful for her talent, determination, and willingness to keep writing great books.
Highly recommended, with the caveat that a few scenes are extremely violent.
Violent, hateful, misogynistic. And worst of all, boring.
Okay, certain plot elements helped me understand Robin's and his history better and to see why they have been together so long but still cannot stand the guy.
It felt more like getting something over with than this bombshell and tension-filled scenes.A few times, sprinkled throughout it seemed like she was aiming for (view spoiler)[more between Robin and Strike but it felt off to me.
Granted that would piss me off too if I were him but still  (hide spoiler)] It felt abrupt and also rushed what with Robin's inner thoughts (view spoiler)[ deciding whether the engagement was off and then her attitude after, it seemed like she was afraid to let go...
3.5 stars, rounded up to 4 because Jo's characterizations are brilliant.I feel like I don't know where to start!
The Robin/Strike dynamic is wonderful and they make such a good team -- I kind of-sort of ship them but at the same time not really because I don't want a relationship to screw up what they've got going on.
You could really feel Robin's stress mounting throughout the book, from page one to the end and I think this was really her time to shine as a character.
It was when Robin received a strangely shaped package by courier – which she thought would be wedding paraphernalia for her upcoming nuptials with fiancé Matthew – and discovered a woman’s leg, that the business began to falter, and both Robin’s and Strike’s lives changed.
As Robin and Strike focused on finding the perpetrator, the police felt they had little to go on.
Frustration marred their daily lives, while danger hovered on the periphery with a psychopath determined to do his utmost.
Would Strike have success in his endeavours to catch the person responsible?Enjoyable – a little too long at almost 500 pages – but highly recommended.
ROWLING, GIMME THE NEXT BOOK!!!!Epic cliffhanger.
This book was everything!!!!
Individually, they're amazing.
Together, they would be even more amazing.
Make it happen, Rowling!The plot was slightly creepy and a lot more gory than the others and I loved that!
Then the last 100 pages happened and I have no words.
WHAT?!The only minor complaint I have is that I don't think the mystery was wrapped up as cohesively as I would've liked (or maybe I was reading so fast at this point, I ended up missing some things) but I'm hoping it'll continue on in the next book.
No doubt this book is going to be playing on my mind for a while.
I also really enjoyed getting to know more about both Cormoran and Robin as their histories unfold.
Finally, I'm a big fan of how Rowling has done the final reveal differently in all 3 of these books.
Keeps me on my toes!There is a certain disorder that was brought up in this book and I honestly did not know how I felt about its portrayal, probably because I was so unfamiliar with it, but as reader I enjoyed its inclusion and learning something new.There's some pretty disturbing imagery in this one, btw.
I live for the interpersonal relationships in stories like these and while there were some developments it is still going a little slowly for my taste but I’m totally hooked and I’ll probably read the entire series just to see how it all works out.
Okay so I’m not sure if J.K. Rowling is brilliant in that she make you feel like the story is dragging a bit when they are having a lull in the case, because the characters are feeling the lull too or if it’s not on purpose at all.
One would think that after being devastated by the completion of the Harry Potter series that I would not want to take on another JK Rowling series.
Of COURSE I wanted to read another JKR series!
Then came the Silk Worm which I didn’t find as great but I could appreciate that JKR was once again, crushing the mystery game.
Can she write another finale as great as the Deathly Hallows was to the Harry Potter series?
BUT the mystery was once again completely consuming.I think Rowling did a fairly good job of wrapping this series up.
