https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6873.In_Between_the_Sheets
What a disappointment. It's like McEwan (or his publisher) took all the outtakes from the exquisite, Somerset Maugham award-winning First Love, Last Rites and stuck them in their own collection to capitalize on it. There was none of the sick beauty of his other work, which I know, love, and look for. Each of these stories seemed to be afterthoughts, or B-sides, if you will, but bad B-sides. At least this collection was mercifully short.
decided to plow through mcewan's body of work only to discover that i kinda loathe the early stuff. and while i don't particularly enjoy slamming a writer i admire i find it encouraging that the same guy who wrote this piece o' shit went on to write atonement and on chesil beach. gives all of us toiling away in secrecy and mediocrity some hope, eh?
Probably I prefer these ugly and 'perverted' '70s to the '70s described by McEwan in 'Sweet tooth'... BTW: I read this short stories collection in translation many years ago and I have almost no memory of that first readinghttps://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2...
Both collections feature stories that are twisted and macabre, but while in First Love the macabre is never out of place and all the gimmicks work, in In Between The Sheets they simply don't and fail leave much impact.
This story perhaps best illustrates how the collection has aged - who buys pornographic magazines nowadays, and are there still actual stores which have only this kind of stuff?Best recommended for completists and fans of the author - though be prepared for something different, as it is a completely different Ian McEwan from theo ne who wrote Atonement or On Chesil Beach.
I was surprised that I’d never heard of this collection before – though no longer – and based on the title and the cover, which features a nude woman lying, appropriately enough, between the sheets, I added it to the already meter high stack I was lugging around.This was supposed to be a sexy read and that alone made me bypass many of the other no doubt excellent books I brought back from that excellent bookstore to read this one first.Let’s hope I have better luck with the rest.
It’s a collection of mostly kinky stories that utterly fail to intrigue.
I guess I have a very different view from most people here. I enjoyed this book because I felt that it was very well crafted. As absurd as the premises of the stories were, McEwan manages to make them "believable" and yet intriguing through his description. Also, even though it is highly sensual, the stories and scenes were very well written. Such that it is tasteful and artistic, rather than how most romantic novels are "trashy" with those scenes. Case in point: fifty shades of grey; it's like pure poison to the brain.
I heard about this on the Books on the Nightstand podcast. Each of these stories pushes some kind of assumption, sex-related. I knew it was early McEwan so I was hoping for something more along the lines of The Comfort of Strangers but these are more focused on the concept in each story than the relationship between the characters. Quick read.
Very very unsettling. McEwan manages to look at sex in a thoroughly unnerving and disturbing way while maintaining the veneer of normalcy in the stories. Just too weird for me.
This unworldly smell is a matter for poets and I challenge them to face their responsibilities.”I gather from other reviews here that  First Love, Last Rites is the better collection of early Ian McEwan stories, but I liked this better than most of his novels.
Every other story ends weakly: not a great batting average for a 150-page collection of seven stories.
Some of the would-be twists will make you roll your eyes.But McEwan’s prose is as pungent and irresistibly precise as post-asparagus piss, and, with some exceptions, he chooses his material wisely: a divorced father overthinking his teenage daughter’s birthday gift, a painstakingly self-aware ape in love with a self-absorbed celebrity author, an elaborately delusional financier.
Es fresco y divertido. Creo que me gustan más sus primeros libros que los actuales.
Es handelt sich um das letzte in deutschsprachiger Übersetzung vorliegende Buch von Ian McEwan, das ich noch nicht gelesen hatte.
Das liegt daran, dass ich zwar großer McEwan-Fan bin, das Frühwerk mich aber nicht allzu sehr anspricht.
Da geht es viel um sexuell verwirrte Pubertierende und allerhand Abgründe, dabei nicht schlecht geschrieben, aber oft nicht mein Fall.
Diese Werke haben dem Autor den Spitznnamen Ian Macaber beschert und obwohl ich für Makaberes oft zu haben bin, hat mich insbesondere Der Zementgarten ratlos zurückgelassen und auch Erste Liebe, Letzte Riten.
This a collection of some of the early short stories of the acclaimed British writer Ian McEwan.
They show a broad range of literary styles and thematic interests, but McEwan's characteristic prose style (very smoothly flowing sentences and ideas) and deep interest in sexuality is on beautiful display.
He is a young writer in these stories, and they are missing some of the gravity that comes in his later works.
Still, for all the youthful mistakes, the literary genius comes through without trouble.
Readers of McEwans newest novels (Atonement, Saturday, On Chesil Beach) should have no trouble finding these stories delightful.
Found myself deeply disturbed, and really, I am not easily so. This is either the highest compliment or the highest criticism, depending on what you want to take with you. In an attempt to be more objective, I'd say this is not McEwan's finest hour, though a couple of the stories are definitely worth reading.
This is the second book written by Ian McEwan, which includes 7 very disturbing short stories. I was leary of it because of the title and table of contents, but decided to read anyway due to this self-imposed goal to get through all of Ian McEwan's books. Honestly, I didn't understand most of the stories. Some of the endings left me completely hanging with no clue about what just happened. Warning: there are some graphic words and images in most of the stories.
'Pornography', the title story, and ‘Psychopolis' (especially the dialogue near the end) are the best. More technically assured than the first collection, and with more bite. I never understand people who find McEwan's early work disgusting, 'shocking' etc. I chain-read McEwan's first three books while lying in Stafford Hospital, and found them infinitely preferable to the ward.
I like some of his novels, despite some cheap POV tricks, but this collection is just navel gazing misogynistic self indulgent and ultimately boring stories.
Quirky and experimental near-erotica by a young writer who would soon become a masterful novelist. I enjoyed finding the flashes of brilliance in this slim volume of short stories.
It is one of the author's early works (1978) and the pieces read almost as if the author wrote them to practice his literary skills.There is no common motif or theme in this collection of seven stories.
Written from the point of view of a non-human, it is offbeat, fresh, and viciously funny as in the sentence (note the usage of the second verb)  "Our first 'time' [...] was a little dogged by misunderstanding largely due to my assumption that we were to proceed a posteriori"  I actively dislike the next piece, Two Fragments: March 199-, a story about a father and his daughter in post-apocalyptic London: not only am I bored with dystopian visions, but this one contains gratuitous "juicy bits" about pigeons' vaginas, dog's member, and chimpanzee excrement.
This particular story is erotic, sexual stuffs and has what-will-happens-in-the-end kind of feeling.2.
Reflection of a kept Ape: 4 stars.
What I like about this is that the story is narrated by the perspective of the ape himself.
Its has the air of mystery around it but you doesn’t completely know what had happened.
Dead as they come: 5 stars This is my favorite story in this collection.
Its a perfect psychological story of love and obsession.
I didn’t like this story on the sole reason because it deals with the incestuous feeling between a father and his teenage daughter.
Somehow I missed it in the early years and then there must have been a gap when it was not easily available, so when I saw an old second-hand copy I grabbed it with some delight.I had forgotten how dark some of the early McEwan writing used to be, having become comfortable with his more recent novels.
A man cheating on two nurses is about to find himself undergoing an impromptu castration, or worse, at the hands of the women he has deceived.
I was pleasantly relieved that these stories still have the power to shock and surprise, even after forty years.
This is some weird shit, well written weird shit, but weird shit nonetheless.
Although not as compelling as his longer fiction, this is a superb collection of short stories written in McEwan's compact yet evocative style. The standout was Dead as They Come, an unnerving portrayal of the anatomy of desire.
Me costó siglos terminarlo. El único relato que no encontré tan aburrido fue el del magnate que se enamoró de un maniquí. Whatever, le tenía más fe a este autor.
- "a city without a centre, without citizens, a city that existed only in the mind" - McEwan captures the moods and feelings of his characters well.The remaining stories are challenging and uncomfortable but in a way that rewards the reader with a deeper understanding of McEwan's writing and the characters themselves.
The collection of stories here transform the ordinary into the fantastical and grotesque but at the same time are careful treatments of marginalised characters.
Although it is quite a strange concept, it works really well and isn't too explicit about it either.On the other hand Dead as They Come is a very graphic novel but it is so strangely fascinating that it makes you want to continue reading...because you can't believe what you're reading!
However, I believe that underneath the shocking nature of the story, perhaps Dead as They Come is more of a social comment of the trashyness of the rich - using their money to buy "plastic", perfect women, whom are clearly unable to hold down real relationships??

Ian’s clear and detatched tone treads the fine line between short stories and poetry in this collection of his work.
Whichever side of the coin, these tales squirm their way around perversion and madness, weaving down dark corridors into unexpected twists.
A cheating boyfriend is lured into a trap.
A father wonders if his daughter’s friend is all she seems.
A wealthy businessman finds the perfect mistress, leading him to hell itself.
These characters are unafraid to tell their own stories, in perfect, bewildering candor, and ask us to examine our own consciences, ask us to find that demarkation between fetish and perversion.

McEwan writes very disturbing short fiction. Although not as bizarre as the FIrst Love collection, you can still marvel at the way his mind works and the multiple subjects and themes he considers. "In Between the Sheets" is probably the weirdest of all the stories. I hope he will give us another big,big novel like ATONEMENT soon.
I'm a bit glad that McEwan went away from his "Macabre" moniker after his first four books, because while he writes sexy/creepy quite well (a British Mary Gaitskill), the stories sort of blended together for me. I think The Cement Garden is the best of early Ian.
