https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122441.Asterix_and_the_Roman_Agent
La zizanie=Asterix and the Roman Agent (Astérix #15), René Goscinnyعنوان: آسترکیس و مامور رومی؛ نویسنده: رنه گوسینی؛ نقاشی از اودرزو؛ مترجم: فریبرز افروزی؛ تهران، سامر، 1393؛ در 48 ص؛ شابک: 9786006444390؛ برای گروه سنی: ب ج؛ موضوع: داستانهای فکاهی مصور از نویسندگان فرانسوی قرن 20 م
This has always been one of my favourite Asterix episodes. Most of the action takes place around the village, leaving lots of room for the storyline and dialogues. Psychological warfare at its finest.
Kurzreview: 11 Freunde sollt ihr sein, doch es kann selbst der beste Mensch nicht in Frieden Wildschwein kauen, wenn es der böse Römernachbar nicht will. Fischverkäufer und besonders Ehefrauen bekommen ihren ersten großen Auftritt und zeigen den harten Galliern, wo die wahre Macht zuhause ist.
Kalo Asterix bacanya entah beberapa kali. Sampe bukunya lecek dan akhirnya di bundel supaya gak ilang2an. Komik terkeren sepanjang masa setelah Tintin.
Ovaj je bio prezabavanvjerojatno najbolji do sada
This one was SO MUCH FUN!!The characters come alive! The humour is endless, joke after joke!My favorite Asterix album to the date. I want to read more :)
TRE MEN DO.
Real Politik in the Ancient World28 September 2013 Ceaser is trying to raise more money and troops to go and fight some more foreign campaigns however is having some trouble with the Senate (don't we all?). Basically they don't want to approve any more wars until Ceaser gets Rome's house in order, which basically means subduing the rebellious village in Northern Gaul that we all know so well. However, as has become clear by now, because they have a magic potion, defeating them by shear force of
Basically they don't want to approve any more wars until Ceaser gets Rome's house in order, which basically means subduing the rebellious village in Northern Gaul that we all know so well.
I suspect the problem with this though is the fact that they are not paying taxes to Ceaser (and this has been indicated an a previous comic that tax collectors have pretty much learnt not to attempt to collect taxes from this village).
Pensa promover as quesílias entre eles introduzindo um Romano que tem por atividade criar discussões e zaragatas entre todos.
Também o conseguirá na aldeia, quer entre os homens quer entre as mulheres quando lá aparece para entregar uma prenda ao homem mais importante da aldeia que para ele era astérix e não o chefe Abraracourcix.
Começam tods a dsiuctir e a desconfiar que astérix dera o segredo da poção mágica aos romanos.
Mas astérix e o druida fingem abandonar a aldeia, mas apenas vão buscar o falso caldeirão de poção mágica que dada aos gauleses estes percebem que é falsa.
Capolavoro. Ottima l’idea, bello il personaggio di Tullius Detritus (il seminatore di zizzania), ammirevole l’intreccio di intrighi in cui il villaggio resta impastoiato, efficacissima la resa della marea montante della zizzania – una presenza reale, incarnata nei balloon, orridi blob verdognoli che incombono sui personaggi… :-)
Incrível demonstração do poder de um boato.
Πολύ γέλιο!!!
Je compte les BDs parce que tout le monde les compte et je les ai lu en français B-)
I've been slowly working through the Asteriz series as an adult, and this one has been by far my favourite as yet. I feel that it adds a lot of character depths, and blurs everyone's motivations quite significantly. Not to mention a marvelous full page spread included in the midst of it.
There is a small fb page named Asterix and galic memes, and I remembered the shelf full of Asterix comics in my library. So naturally, as I am a bit behind of this year's challenge, REREAD TIME!
One of the very best stories. an intriguing villain and plot
Does the Ramon agent get the better of Asterix or does Asterix get the better of the Roman agent?
the roman agent's secret power is being a contagious asshole. i read this in 20 minutes and it (measurably) improved my day and overall vibes
Perinteinen ja peruskaavaa noudattava Asterix-seikkailu joka ei herätä intohimoja suuntaan eikä toiseen.
God knall på alle måtar
Riidankylväjässä piirtäjät pääsivät oikein elementtiinsä piirtämään vihaisia ja huutavia ja tappelevia gallialaisia. Tällä kertaa keskenään. Oikein mainio premissi ja toimiva tarina.
The romans plot to conquer the Gaulish village by causing discord among the villagers. This results in a sizable battle.
His mere presence even causes an argument and a fight between Caesar's associates [and almost has Caesar arguing with him before Caesar realizes just how brilliant this fellow is].
Impressed by his abilities Caesar sends him to deal with the Gauls.During the crossing Convolvulus subtly causes no end of dissent between the crew, the galley slaves and the Pirates who, in the course of a fight between themselves, sink their own ship.Meanwhile in the Gaulish village, unaware of all this, things are being organised for Chief Vitalstatistix's birthday, a celebration of friendship all round..."Further Wiki Notes:"-The original French title of this story was La Zizanie ("The Ill-feeling" or "The Dissension").
La zizanie - René GoscinnyRating: ★★★ 1/2Review coming soon!
Asterix collection is the kind of books that maverick disappoints... I really love the plots, the characters... the villagers are so transparent and the Romans supposedly so evil!
Asterix lagi-lagi berhasil menggagalkan penyerbuan Romawi ke Galia kendati Julius Caesar telah mengutus seorang penghasut.
Bahkan Asterix dan Obelix sendiri hampir menjadi korbannya kalau bukan karena keakraban mereka.Dengan keadaan kacau balau di Galia, pasukan Romawi akhirnya menyerbu.
apalagi setelah Si Penghasut berhasil meyakinkan Panglima Romawi bahwa ia telah menemukan ramuan jamu ajaib buatan dukun Galia.
Mereka tidak akan membiarkan pasukan Romawi mengacak-acak mereka.Benar saja, pasukan Romawi mengalami kekalahan telak.
Kontra intelejen yang dilakukan Asterix dan Obelix ke kamp pasukan Romawi menghasilkan strategi pertahanan yang bagus.
Setelah kalah telak, Si Penghasut kembali dipenjara.
Kali ini, dengan kesalahan yang berlipat: menyebabkan kekalahan Romawi.
Il tema di questa avventura é l'amicizia e quel che accade quando la discordia prova a separarci.Asterix e Obelix dovranno lottare contro un seminatore di zizzania. Tutti sospettano di tutti, ma basta un po' di buon senso e qualche piccolo trucco per far cadere ogni dubbio e far tornare l'armonia.Albo con tanti spunti di riflessione e qualche geniale trovata di disegno (le vignette verdi per simboleggiare la gelosia e una tavola di battaglia in stile libro di storia). I nostri amici galli ci insegnano che spesso le cose non sono come sembrano.
Caesar wants to do something about the village and he gets a trouble-maker involved. The guy can get any group of people to arguing and fighting with each other so he goes to the village and soon people are mad at each other and fighting.Things get worse when the villagers think Asterix has given the magic potion to the Romans. The Romans get defeated in a battle and Asterix is able to turn the trouble-makers methods against him. Fairly funny.
Julius Caesar’s political opponents in the Senate are ridiculing his efforts to pacify Gaul, so he releases a seditious troublemaker from prison in the hopes that he will sow discord among the Gauls. Wherever this agent goes, chaos and jealousy go with him, and this is one the funniest parts of the story. Both the Gauls and the Roman garrison are unprepared for this man’s subterfuge, and his own methods prove to be his undoing.Excellent, hilarious, and action-packed.
Those cunning Romans send an agent provocateur to the village to dominate the indomitable Gauls by spreading rumour and mischief. Everyone argues with everyone else resulting in copious fights and shouting matches. The camp Aquarium troops develop a cunning form of psychological warfare involving a large club. It culminates in the famous "Battle of the Village" with a four pronged attack and the accidental loss of a Pirate ship.
