https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/427353.The_Gap_Into_Conflict
My read of the first Thomas Covenant book went so poorly that I never even finished the story.
I had loved the concept and found Donaldson's writing to be fairly engaging, but I was too disgusted with the character of Thomas to continue reading his story.
It was my hope that The Real Story would have more of what I liked and less of what I did not.
Despite a whole host of issues I did still find the actual story fairly intriguing and engaging.
This story actually played to Brick's strengths as a narrator.
Surely the right time.Call me completely insane, but I've agreed to read this (I wrote a few months ago)....after a conversation that went like this:Me: I hate Thomas CovenantNoela: But you have to read the Gap seriesMe: Huh?Noela: It is about a girl who has the most appalling things happen to her.
You have to know what dreadful thing is going to happen to her next.
I'm not allowed out until I finish these books.Actually, it isn't dissimilar to what happens in this book to Morn, except that nobody is doing despicable thing to degrade and break me.
I loathe the Thomas Covenant series and I could only read the first book of the Mordant’s Need duality.
I liked that no character was locked into a role, that everything kept shifting as the novel unfolded.
Nick Succorso is set up to look like a hero, but a small foreshadowing by Donaldson indicates that he is no white knight.
I never thought I would ever say this: I’m looking forward to the next book in this Donaldson series!Book number 266 of my Science Fiction & Fantasy Reading Project.
I’d had the Gap series on my radar for a while, so when I came across the 55 essential Space Operas according to Barnes & Noble and saw The Real Story on there I decided to have at it.Having finished the book (fairly quickly as it turned out – it’s not a very long read) I’m a bit out of sorts as to how to review it.
There are some interesting elements, and it looks like the series only really picks up from the second book (which I may actually read, since the grimy used future feel of the story appealed to me).
The Gap really explores the cycle of hero/victim/villain.
Between the first book and the last, the cycle has turned atleast twice, with the main characters exploring and fulfilling all the roles.The Real story is a brutal book.
No mistake, its a hard read.
But between Donaldson's writing, and the compelling back story, it really sets the stage for a wider story.
The characters do develop and change over time.
This is a dark book, with dark characters, and is by no means a book that is intended for non-mature readers.
The rest of the series is in much the same vein.
Interesting sci-fi story featuring numerous pirates and Morn, a female cop captured and implanted with a mind control device. At the mercy of the depraved Angus she is horribly brutalised - too much in my opinion. Salvation might be in the form of another pirate the mercurial Nick - but will she live that long ?? Interesting premise but the violence spoilt things.
I don't criticize the actual book for it, because it was necessary in order to tell this particular story about this particular man who was acting fully within his character to do such a thing.
Then we dial back and are told about the exact same sequence of events from the point of view of the onlookers who were more observant, and noticed things the casual bystanders did not.
But even here, there are three different versions of the story being told, because each person has a very different perspective on what is happening.
The main character casually murders people by the dozen.
Indeed, one wonders whether Donaldson is capable of writing a book in which the main character isn't a rapist.
But at least with The Real Story it doesn't seem that you're supposed to sympathize with the rapist (at least at first - I suspect that Angus will become more sympathetic in later books).Despite all this, I can appreciate the quality of Donaldson's prose and his skill with character development, which is probably what prevented me from putting this down (although I seriously considered it several times).
Donaldson since I read the Thomas Covenant Chronicles in the 70s.
In this new series, the Gap Chronicles, Donaldson moves to science fiction from fantasy.
Be warned, this is a brutal series to read (like The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo), but it is also a phenomenal study in character development.
He makes the victim the hero, the villain the victim, and the hero the villain in a stunning saga that takes place across the vast exapnses of space in the midst of a struggle between humanity and the aliens bent on humanity's annihilation.
This is one of the best science fiction stories I've read.
I asked, "Dark and brutal like A Song of Ice and Fire but with spaceships?" His answer: "Actually, that's not such a bad comparison, in the horrible-things-happening-to-the-main-characters kind of way." So I picked this up knowing exactly what I was in for.
This first book, originally meant to be a standalone novella, only reads like an introduction to the three main characters.
Things are not always what they seem and characters are not always who you think they are.I look forward to reading the second book so I can start getting to the actual story and meat of this series.
I found this on the street and thought it was a science fiction book... halfway through I decided I had stumbled into a perverse romance novel, than towards the end I thought it was sci-fi... now I'm not quite sure. It's not exactly romantic with all the rape and sexual torture so explicity described, but, well, I don't know. I liked it, but felt kinda dirty afterwards and I don't quite feel like reading the next book in the series. I'm kinda scared to be honest.
Also I was a bit skeptical reading Donaldson again due to the fact that Thomas covenant's first two books were a drag for me, but Donaldson sure has turned the tide in this book and has written some compelling stuff.Some of the strong points of the book are1.A compact story.2.Hard to like any character.Let me elaborate on the above points1.A compact story.The story starts when a space pirate known as Angus Thermopylae arrives with a women known as Morn hyland in space bar known as Mallory's.
3.5 stars. Beginning volume of the very dark and gritty Gap Series. Excellent character study and hints of some very nice world-building. I will certainly read the next volume in the series though this book, on its own, was not spectacular.
I like my fiction DARK.There is no character in this series that isn't deeply, perhaps even fatally flawed.
Donaldson is a master storyteller, well loved for his Thomas Covenant series.
High tech, deep space, aliens that are distinctive and not humanoids, with very different motivations from ours.
Blaster wars, derelict space-craft, pirates, politics...
deep looks at the implications of implants that can control our emotions and other glands.Not for the faint of heart.
Rape, child abuse themes are present.The character's flaws bind them together, and impose requirements for them to behave the way that they do.
This is my first Donaldson book to read.
The story is pretty simple, told by a narrator who doesn't leave much room for the reader to judge, who gives little description to the setting, the era, and what humankind has achieved and reached thus far, and who concentrates only on what the "real story" is.
And yet, the story was captivating.
There certainly are brutal parts, but they are in keeping with characterization and Donaldson gives a general description rather than a detailed, blow-by-blow account.
What really pulled me into the story was its pathos.
I'm eager to read the next book of the series.
Yes, it has disturbing themes and violence throughout but its only a work of fiction.
I say courage because I'm sure he got slammed by some people and I think that is unfair because stated earlier, it's only a work of fiction.
I'm not saying the dark scenes were pleasant to read but I don't want books that are censored or heavily edited by nervous editors and publishers, I want books that are true to the authors vision and with not always with sugar coated themes and prose.
Do I recommend the book?, well yes for sure, but be advised that it is a dark scifi journey.
Donaldson makes sure the reader can never settle comfortably into a bad guys vs.
The second detractor of this book may actually be a plus for some readers.
As tempting as it might be to skip this small introduction, you really must read it if you hope to understand what is happening in the second novel.
Furthermore, in order to get the whole story, you must read all five books of the Gap Cycle.
I first read these books in the 1990s, when the last couple in the series first came out.
I really feel like I get into the character's heads.This book is essentially a science-fiction homage to Wagner's Ring Cycle, but it is considerably more than that.
It is a story where you quickly know what happens, but why and exactly how it happens unfolds like certain flower blossoms at dawn.A space pirate takes a hostage.
The space pirate perceives something of the Stockholm Syndrome taking place in his victim and this feeling of power mixed with false signals of love creates emotions he's never felt before.
A space rogue creates an elaborate plan to rescue the hostage.
But which person is which?THE REAL STORY is the small-seed beginning of The Gap, one of the most hard-hitting sci fi series I've read.
Powerful character archetypes find themselves on various sides of an ethical free-for-all.
What can be justified when the goal is to keep humanity from being mutated into the enemy species?I called it a series, but actually it's a 5-part novel, each book opening onto wider horizons than the previous book.
The emotional experience of each character makes them all seem larger than life.The Gap series is my favorite sci fi read of 2014.
A tough read, even for me. Grimdark is one thing, then there's the hell the female lead has to endure throughout the entire book. Well written, but uncomfortable reading.Having just finished the third book, it's definitely worth persevering. The first book (more of a novella) serves as an introduction to the central characters. From here a very dark yet satisfying story emerges, with superb world building and interesting characters.For people on the fence, I'd recommend trying book 2 before calling it quits.
I'm ready to roll when the rest of you guys are (Peter, Nick, Jack et al. & anyone else who wants to get in on a group read)!! http://i77.photobucket.com/albums/j47...
Good story, but very dark like a lot of Donaldson's writing is.
It begins with a brief and superficial synopsis of what the observers think they know about went went on between the victim, the villian, and the hero.
The "hero" is always out of sight yet continually a source of fear, and the villian actually becomes the victim in a surprising role reversal.
This is a raw thought provoking story evoking a lot of negative emotion and disgust, yet it leaves you wanting to know more.
Fascinating book.
I just reread this, after having first read in in highschool probably back in 1994-95.Its a great begining to a very interesting space opera/space noir tale.
Full of politics, cold war, intrigue, humanity at its best and worst (and often times those trading places as the story unfolds).
I was a very young man when I last read this, and I did enjoy it.
But damn, I kind of wish I had never read it prior to this current reading, cause I was so very very illequipped to appreciate the dark subtleties of this first book or the entire series.
I can't wait to reread the rest.
I have a tendency to rate all of SRD's books at 5 stars because I love his work.
The Real Story (The Gap Into Conflict) doesn't deserve 5 stars, but anyone who reads the book needs to understand that it serves two purposes.
The first is to introduce you to the three main characters of the series.
The second is to show you how awful they are (via scenes of rape, torture, degradation and evil) so that when the time for redemption arrives at the end it will have a greater impact.
The first book simply isn't worth much when you rate it on its own merits.
Interesting and well written. I've had this series recommended AT me by a few people. It gets better from what i've heard but the first book didn't really grab me. Very interesting characters, and interesting dynamic between them, but that is the whole book. I'll forge ahead and see what happens.
Pretty good sci-fi. One of the better space battles I've read ...
A rather old-fashioned book that is meant to be a character study wrapped in a space opera.
The space opera was almost American western inspired.
The twist at the end was just impossible, given everything you'd learned about the main character.
(view spoiler)[The 'frame-up' was just stupid.
How metric tonnes of completely, unidentifiable station supplies 'appeared' in the cargo hold of an on-guard, paranoid is unlikely.
They were unaccounted for in station inventory?
(hide spoiler)] Mercifully this story was very short.I won't be reading the next in the series The Gap Into Vision: Forbidden Knowledge.
The Gap Into Conflict: The Real Story (Gap, #1) by Stephen R. Donaldson The start of a five book adventure, and a fun romp! Of course our main protagonist is a piece of work. And his soul is the most tortured pirate ever. But even as we go along in a journey thru some layers of different Hells, we also see the abject honesty of the person behind the mask. And it ain't pretty! I loved the plot lines as well. Very tight and crafty indeed. After this, I will probably read the rest just to se what happens.
Gross. Barely interested enough to finish and yet I already own the next book from years ago. I'm going to at least start it.
