https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1393098.The_Shutter_of_Snow
Marthe is locked up in an asylum, behind walls of truth stealing shadows.
They must be mumbling thoughts inside for no one to hear.I felt like when babysitting a small child and they SWEAR that they are allowed to eat lots of sugary treats before dinner time.
Marthe's asylum perspective feels like this.
It looked like someone making trouble, as if I were one of the doctors who doesn't believe her.
A red-headed woman (like Marthe) is large as you can see.
That is what it feels like when people are hungry and they are around you.


There is tenderness but also violence, there is friendship but also loneliness.Coleman knew a human nature, especially the people with mental illness but also the staff of the psychiatric hospital in her times."They were proud, and deliciously ate their indifference."If you are open for the different narration and you want to understand better what it is to be mentally ill - you should read this book.[I have had some knowledge of this topic and in my opinion there are really good examples of the minds of the people with delusions]
Once I got used to the stream of consciousness style of writing (a style which I don't particularly care for), I was moved by just how beautifully written this book is. I became completely enamored. In parts it's very funny and at other times very sad. But what an incredible glimpse into the world of mental illness.
Quite an extraordinary description of life in a lunatic asylum. Incredibly poetic writing.
"Her teeth were too small from the measles and she smiled"
Set in an American mental hospital in the 20s, this is the story of a young woman suffering a bout of insanity following the birth of her child.
Written in the 3rd person yet simultaneously as if by the woman herself, it tells of everyday life -interchanges with the staff and inmates, activities in the hospital- plus in paragraphs of poetic prose takes us inside the mind of Marthe.The title refers both to the snow that features throughout as Marthe looks out onto the world; and of course to the state of her mind.
A brilliant attempt to describe mental illness; Coleman was prompted to write this following her own time inside such a hospital.
This short stream-of-consciousness novel was first published in 1930. It records the thoughts and feelings of a woman in a mental hospital, following a nervous breakdown. At the beginning, it feels disjointed, but the reader soon gets into the flow, and then the idiosyncrasies of the style work really well for the subject. By the end of this short novel, I was completely immersed, a participant in this woman’s experience. She’s no victim, even though she does harbor a few delusions. Why shouldn’t a woman be Jesus Christ this time around?
This was an amazing book written by a woman who spent time in a mental institution after the birth of her son. The point of view shifts back and forth between first person and third person in an effective and disorienting way. Superb.
At first I found the style amusing, but later on it irritated me and the lack of apostrophes, speech marks and such distracted me from the plot. I can't say it's not a good experimental novel though, and it definitely had its moments.
An interesting look at a woman living within an insane asylum whilst suffering from postpartum depression. She thinks she is Jesus Christ, and Coleman doesn't use proper grammar/puncutation. It took a lot out of me, honestly. But definitely was interesting.
This book is beautifully constructed, wonderfully written and was thoroughly enjoyable to read. It was the only book Coleman published, which is shame, but also a boon. Especially in these days where everything has to be a series of at least fifteen books.
