https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144407.First_Third_Other_Writings_Revised_Expanded_Edition_Together_With_A_New_Prologue
AND I MEAN ONLY THE YEARS BETWEEN 5 AND 10 (maybe even 9...I am writing this review without the book in front of me).
For that and the simple fact that his life was just so f-ing interesting, he gets bumped from 2 to 3 stars.There are also some very amusing letters from Cassidy to Jack Kerouac where he is essentially BEGGING Kerouac to find him a woman (or several?
Cassidy's writing style is joyously mad-hatterly yet infinitely accessible, and the story of his life is more than fascinating (I mean, GOD.
I always thought Neal Cassady and Jimi Hendrix would have been friends.
The book is limited in the years covered (the first third is the first third of Neal Cassady's life), which leaves you with positive sense of this man's contributions to a literary and cultural event that, ultimately, passed on as much from the excesses of its participants as from any lack of interest from the public.
The sad part is the knowledge that Cassady burned out after a stint with the Merry Pranksters and died alone and otherwise unremarked.
Bu qısa kitabın əvvəli Nealin ailəsinin mənşəyi, onların Amerikaya gəlib çıxmağı və tanış olmağından bəhs edir.
Ortalarda isə Nealin öz adından danışdığı, Böyük Böhrandan sonra əyyaş atası ilə yaşadığı səfil həyatı ən xırda təfərrüatına kimi nəql olunur.
Üzləşdiyi inanılmaz kasıblıq (kilsələrin verdiyi pulsuz yeməklərlə dolanan bir ailə), pedofillərlə mübarizə, atasının səfil, əyyaş həyatı Nealin bütün həyatını formalaşdırır, uşaqlıqdan ədəbsiz böyüyən bu gənc ömür-gününü də bu şəkildə davam etdirir.
Əsərin son hissəsi arvadı Caroline tərəfindən tapılan Nealin əlyazmaları və məktublarını əhatə edir.
1950-60-cı illər Amerikasının Denver vilayətinin səfil həyatını oxumaq istəyənlər üçün maraqlı bir avtobioqrafiya ola bilər.
I found it too painful to think of a little boy living on skid row at the Metro with Shorty and all the Denver down-and-outs; the barber in bed without sheets, drunk; Neal wearing the cruel stepbrother’s hand-me-downs, and “too-short shoes;” and “I was always hungry then,” during the Great Depression.
Beyond Neal being a counter-culture hero or anti-hero, beyond the protagonist of novels, Neal—father, husband, son, brother—a flawed and damaged human with a family, children, a man who went out in the world with little more than a high IQ and a lot of charm and fast talk and exceptional driving skills, and somehow earned a living, and in his own imperfect way, did what he could for as long as he could.
Even though I am a huge Neal Cassady fan, I am only giving this book three stars...
I always found it ironic that Neal Cassady's mercurial, on-the-move personality translated as slow and methodical on the page, while Kerouac's slow and deliberate personality translated as hyper-kinetic on the page!
I recommend this book for Beat fans.
Letters written by Neal, speaking with his natural voice, are really entertaining and far better than this attempt at prose.
There are some notes by Carolyn Cassady and other stories as well, so if you are a fan it is a must have for your shelf.
it's not a good book, but Neil is in there, you can read him slapping these words out in a craze, and to get in the head of this man is worth the trip it takes to get through the book.
His writing is certainly not that of Kerouac or any other serious writer, but his specific brand of innocence or sincerity (neither of which are good terms to use given Neal's exploitive - though even this word easily contradicted in his vast man-duality - nature) is enough to drive the whole narrative.
In my opinion, Neal's fascinating style of writing comes across to greater effect through his letters to Jack and Ken Kesey and others and in The First Third, it is clear that he is really trying hard to adopt a 'literary' and therefore FORCED style which is out of whack with his real-life character.
Therefore, while this is an intersting read and I certainly enjoyed it, especially his descriptions of skid-row Denver growing up in the 30s and 40s, I would point any reader eager to discover more about Cassady to either the excellent published collection of his letters or to the very insightful biography by David Sandison.
For a long time I didn't think any of Neal's writing had really survived so I was very pleasantly surprised to find this.
I kept thinking how great it was to finally be able to read something by him and try and get a glimpse of what Jack, Alan and Carolyn saw in him.
In a way a lot of what he was writing about was very shocking and so hard to imagine today.
If he was it was pretty horrific to think that much sex abuse was happening to the kids in Denver.
So Neal Cassady is Dean Moriarty in Jack Kerouac's On the Road and plays himself in Tom Wolfe's The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test plus he was pals with Allen Ginsberg and William S Burroughs and Ken Kesey and assorted other writers, so of course he'd write a book.
I think his life was his art more than his writing was.
It's not a badly written book, but is a little scatter brained.
But it was interesting to get some background into the dude who inspired Kerouac.
It would have been nice if he finished and wrote the second third with more stories of him and Jack.
Only stupid people would ask for Cassidy to punctuate or change his writing style. He wrote this book during more destructive parts of his life, as the writing clearly illustrates. As he moved closer to the end, his mind became exceedingly interested writing with more disorganization, often challenging himself to see how long he could write a single sentence. This is a great look into the self destructive nature of a great counter culture hero.
I learned from this that bitches ain't shit but tricks and hoes. I also learned that being Neal Cassady kinda sucked mainly cause you were broke all the time and your older brother made you fight mexican kids to "get tough". Although in the case of Neal you go on to be the inspiration of an entire generation simply by being crazy and fucking everything that moves. What a life!
favorite book ever. the language is one flowing poem. 35 word sentences and a drawing of a seven year old vagina (drawn by a seven year old boy) plus soul touching lines like, "So love goes, so life goes, so I go. Carry on my brother." -NC
For some reason, Neal Cassady and Jack Kerouac remind me of Hemmingway and Fitzgerald. But with more drinking, drugs (?), and with sharing women.
The prologue truly blew me away and I'm glad I read this edition just for the prologue. Neal's telling of the story of his parents is heart-felt and touching, albeit somewhat heart-wrenching as well. The story of his father is one of constant struggle and strife, much like young Neal's would be growing up during the Great Depression. It's true that the writing is somewhat plodding, but it's well worth the time, especially for those interested in depression-era upbringings or figures of the Beat Generation.
A useful addition to the Beat Literature canon. A bit of a bundle of loose collections, but a unique insight to a unique doomed human.
I think and feel that if Neal hadn't of died before completing this, it would have faired better for me.
After reading this book I don't feel inspired to write that way, at least not as I did after reading Hunter S.
I think while Neal did his best to fly off the handle, Hunter kept at least one hand on the wheel.One thing that got me thinking while reading this book was how carefree and mobile Neal was.
The guy traveled merely to travel, a child-like anxiety to move move move at all costs.
Secondly, it made me more curious about Neal as a human being.
After all I was not very interested in reading random writings by Cassady nor did I care to read letters he had written to Kerouac.The writing style in the first half of the book is rather boring.
It felt as though the book was either over edited or that Cassady was trying WAY TOO HARD to be a wordsmith.Towards the end (third chapter) the writing started to take on a life of it's own and became more enjoyable.And then his selected writings and letters were very enjoyable.
Overall though I might be more interested in reading letter exchanges between Kerouac and Cassady than Cassady's attempt to write his autobiography.
While the world mostly knows of Cassady because of Kerouac's immortalisation of him, he's an important literary figure in his own right, albeit one who was overshadowed by Kerouac, Allen Ginsberg and William Burroughs.As The First Third shows, Neal Cassady had a way with words that occasionally equaled his contemporaries, and this autobiographical novel is a fine example of his writing.
It's interesting to learn more about the life of a man who influenced so many, a rare example of a writer who, purely from the act of living in his own inimitable way, became immortalised in words by Kerouac, Ginsberg, Bukowski, Ken Kesey and Hunter S.
The inspiration for  Jack Kerouac's well-remembered Dean Moriarty, Cassady was the fuel that ignited the fire of the Beat movement.
Which is ridiculous, as I said before, as the first half of this book plods horribly.That isn't to say this isn't interesting.Cassady paints a vibrant picture of the time in which he lived.
Thankfully, the letters and excerpts that pepper the back-end of the book are a welcome change from his restricted narrative style.A must read for any fans of the Beats, if they'd care to get an idea for just how the movement itself came into being.
An fractured, incomplete, and intimate autobiography.
Fans of Kerouac and his "real life hero" Dean Moriarty (who's life and character was based on the author) will appreciate this book the most.Although Cassady's life during his friendships with Jack Kerouac, Allen Ginsburg, William Burroughs, and Ken Kesey is well chronicled in Kerouac's "On The Road" books and Tom Woolf's "The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test", his childhood and young life remained a mystery.
This 'discovered' autobiography, published a decade after his death, details the origins of the Cassady family and Neal's own life in excellent detail up until about age eight.
There are a couple of editions of this - the earlier one (1971, I think), which I read sometime in t
I had such high hopes for this book.
Every recount of the beat generation raves about Cassidy and the (apparent) writing style that inspired the lot.
But this work was just wordy and plain and mostly uninteresting.
Cassidy seemed to be on a mission to never use the same word twice.
However, the book did earn it's second star from the letters included.
Seemingly, when Cassidy doesn't feel he's writing formally, the format relaxes and the brilliance is exhumed.
It is amazing how, when in letter, the language becomes extremely conversational and wonderfully interesting.
I got quickly involved in this book finding the story engaging as a plain, honest telling of how lives go.
My interest began to drift, however, as Neal Cassidy arrives at the telling of his own story (the book starts with a family history).
The writing bogs down in minutia like "first we went here, then we went there, and then over there".
Interspersed, however, are some life experiences that i can imagine very few to have shared.Once the above mentioned minutia turned into run-on sentences that took up 3/4 of a page, I couldn't finish it.
I read the first edition, which I bought at City Lights Bookstore the day it came out, I guess 1971.
I only saw Neal once: he walked into City Lights and totally electrified the place - he had charisma like a lightning bolt.
Amazing.
All he did was sit there and bum a cigarette, and nobody could take eyes off him.
As for the book, apparently there's more stuff added in later editions, but the first edition was just Neal mouthing off as only Neal could do.
It's a document, not a book, a sample of his jazz-riffing style of speech.
A precursor of A Child Called It - but with substance, honesty and grit. A biography from the early twentith century with no 'oh woe is me' subplot. Neal Cassady famously became Dean Moriaty in Jack Kerouac's On the Road, and shone like a star above him. Kerouac owes a lot to Neal Cassady and although this book fills in the blanks in their relationship its Kerouac that wrote the better book. Still worth reading though - just for the history
The good: Cassady's writing style is distinctive and you can see how Kerouac ripped him off. Also, his early life of abuse and neglect gives some context to his adult behavior. The bad: Cassady was an asshole. A personable, charismatic, intelligent and entertaining one for sure, but asshole nevertheless.My comments about On the Road apply here, times 100.
I'm finished with The First Third: I think Carolyn Cassidy's afterword should have been a foreword, as there's some warning to the prose and language Neal was to use. Such an interesting read, and life, and such a shame he died before he could finish it. But you get a real sense of the man behind Moriarty in the excerps of his writing and letters to Jack Kerouac and Ken Kesey. I was surprised at his use of the C-bomb though!
The hustler bus driver who inspired seemingly everyone who had a public voice in the Beat scene, 1960's, predictably, didn't have the patience to finish his own autobiography. So many authors, such as Kerouac perhaps, are thieves of other people's lives.I'd say Cassady (I think his name is misspelled here) was like the little brother you never had, but poorer, manic and more exposed. Read Kesey's essay, The Death of Superman for a look at how it ended.
got worse and worse as it went along, both his life and the book. And that's saying a lot considering he started with being 6 years old and living on skid row with his alcoholic father during the depression. However, there was a joy in his life and his memories of it for the first few years, which is why I give the book 2 stars and not just 1. Traveling with his father hitchhiking and riding the rails and exploring as a child his hometown of Denver, riveting and horrifying and yes, happy.
