https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36072.The_7_Habits_of_Highly_Effective_People
I would like to make clear that David Hasselhoff's appearance in this review should in no way be deemed to imply that I endorse or support his career in any way whatsoever.Thank you for your understanding.  FIVE "PRACTICAL" HABITS OF HIGHLY EFFECTIVE PEOPLEFirst, a few comments on the seven so-called “habits” identified in the book, namely:1.Be proactive, 2.Begin with the End in Mind, 3. Put First Things First, 4. Think Win-Win, 5. Seek First to Understand, then to be understood, 6. Synergize
I would like to make clear that David Hasselhoff's appearance in this review should in no way be deemed to imply that I endorse or support his career in any way whatsoever.Thank you for your understanding.
FIVE "PRACTICAL" HABITS OF HIGHLY EFFECTIVE PEOPLEFirst, a few comments on the seven so-called “habits” identified in the book, namely:1.Be proactive, 2.Begin with the End in Mind, 3.
Put First Things First, 4.
Think Win-Win, 5.
This book is like a giant fortune cookie full of sounds good but says nothing.
2. BE BOLD, BE DARING AND DELIVER TO THE MARKETPLACE THE NEXT BIG THING 
He uses the fable of the Goose and the Golden Egg as a metaphor.Interdependence: Covey says the Habits lead you from dependence to independence to interdependence (cooperating with others to achieve a common goal; producing things greater than the sum of their parts).The 7 HabitsHabit 1: Be ProactiveYou choose how to respond to what life throws at you.
Take responsibility for your actions.Habit 2: Begin with the End in Mind Choose your short-term, daily behavior according to the plan you have for your entire life.
I hated the people who were reading it for class.
As I am a wee bit addicted to books, I immediately agreed, and when I started searching on Amazon for the reading list, "7 Habits" appeared on pretty much every single page.
I have ordered (with my boss' blessing) "The 8th Habit" and will read that shortly.Every single page I found something that made me put the book down for a couple of minutes and think about it.
I would say this is required reading for humanity, but my father would have been the exception to that rule.Basically, this book will teach you about effective ways to be a compassionate, kind, enjoyable human being.
This book is shiny and it has 6 pages of recommendations before the title page.
This book makes me want to barf - A LOT!
so much so, that I could even stop watching what I eat because I'd be barfing up all the calories anyway.
I could eat and eat and eat and barf and barf and barf and it wouldn't be a disorder because it would all happen naturally - no effort on my part, just read and barf, read and barf - like that.This book is my assigned reading for tonight, this review received more of my attention than the assigned reading will.
- Hon, did you sleep okay? You look kinda weird.- Well, I don't know how to say this...- Yes?- I had this dream where I talked with God.- Was She black?- No, I'm serious! I did! It was, like, utterly real. It was the most real thing that's ever happened to me.The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
One of the most-highlighted books on Kindle, proving that human beings thrive on snappy buzz-quotes written by middle managers like David Brent who partake of the music of M People and Steely Dan Kool & The Gang, and whose souls were long ago vacuumed out in a boardroom somewhere during a PowerPoint presentation.
“Squeeze ‘em harder, Mr Pancks!”The PC principle is to always treat your employees exactly as you want them to treat your best customers.Condescending fake-friendliness masking resentment and loathing.For our purposes, we will define a habit as the intersection of knowledge, skill, and desire.
Reading this book is rather like having a very one-sided conversation with a particularly earnest and opinionated drunk who isn't shy to jab you in the chest with a fore-finger to underline a point.
The power of the argument and the vast number of sales lies in how the seven habits tap into our moral beliefs about the kind of habits we want to be able to have to make us successful, and more to the point the kind of habits that we want to believe make people successful, and in the great tradition of self help books it asserts the primacy of the individual will over any and all other circumstances.
An okay book if you don't know how to manage your life it's probably really helpful but if you've thought about how to make yourself more productive or effective a lot of it's intuitive. Also like a lot of these books can only tell you things you have to make the changes yourself which is always the hard part so. This one was better written than most which I appreciate.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Own Rituals: “The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People” by Stephen R.
Covey(original review, 2004)"To learn and not to do is really not to learn.
To know and not to do is really not to know.""Love is a verb.
Love – the feeling – is the fruit of love the verb or our loving actions.
So love her.
Affirm her.""At some time in your life, you probably had someone believe in you when you didn't believe in yourself."In “The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People” by Stephen R.
کاوی؛ مترجم: محمدرضا آل یاسین؛ تهران، هامون، 1376؛ در 348 ص؛ مصور، نمودار؛ شابک: 9649146687؛ چاپ دوم 1377؛ چاپ سوم 1378؛ چاپ هشتم 1383؛ چاپ یازدهم 1384؛ چاپ سیزدهم 1385؛ چاپ بیست و دوم 1393؛ موضوع: درسهایی برای دگرگونی خویشتن؛ قرن 20 معنوان: هفت گام به سوی کامیابی؛ تهران، نشر نی، 1376، در 416 ص، شابک: 9643122743؛ مترجمها: محسن اشرفی؛ مهدی الوانی؛ معصومه پیروز بخت؛ عنوان: تاملات روزانه؛ مترجم: حسن اکبریان طبری؛ تهران، مهرنوش، 1379؛ در 137 ص؛ شابک: 9649133135؛ این کتاب ادامه دارد عنوان ادامه کتاب عادت هشتم است؛ ا.
easy to read :) but hard to do :D hahahah
كانت أكثر العادات التي أثارت اهتمامي: العادة الثالثة "أبدأ بالأهم ثم المهم" حيث يوضح الكتاب أهمية القيام بالمهام الهامة أكثر من الضرورية، ويضع جدولا أسبوعيا يساعد في تنظيم الأعمال مع الاحتفاظ بهامش للمرونة.
والعادة الخامسة "اسع من أجل الفهم أولا ثم أسع من أجل أن يفهمك الآخرون"، وهي إحدى المشاكل التي تواجهني شخصيا حيث أهتم خلال الحديث مع أي شخص آخر بتحضير الرد مسبقا مما يسبب بعض المشكلات في فهم مقصده، وهنا أيضا يوضح لنا أهمية تلك المهارة في الحديث بين الأهل والأبناء حيث يهتم الأهل بسرد تجاربهم الشخصية دون الالتفات لحاجات الأبناء والاستماع لحديثهم وفهم رغباتهم أولا.تشمل العادات السبع النقاط التالية:النصر الشخصي:1.
I read only the first twenty pages of this book, and that was enough to make me want to gouge out my own eyeballs.
It really is all just common sense stuff that you already know, but preached at you over the course of pages and pages of utter nonsense.
If you want to learn more, Mr. Covey has written you about 70 pages on the subject, so you're good to go.
Believe me when I tell you that this book will most certainly NOT change your life in any way, shape, or form.
I found this book a bit condescending and with too much of a religious feel to it. It also felt a little insincere and manipulative. I remember that everyone was reading it and swearing by it and that the author must have made millions on seminars and the like, but I found it too close to a cultish mentality and was unsurprised when several adepts of the book later tried dragging me in to pyramid schemes like Amway. Empty platitudes are not really incredibly useful. Read GTD instead!
What I really enjoy about this book is these habits he describes are based on universal principles.
Sometimes, we simply need a new paradigm and he described this way of thinking so well I thought.I also was drawn to the way he describes deep listening.
You can draw a person out with deep listening like nothing else really.
I have read many self-help books and I feel like this is one amazing book.
For me, what Stephen is talking about here is a way to live at a deep level and work with people intradependently.
IT does sound like a lot of work.
قويم ،و قوي .قام على ثلاث أسس / نفسك - الآخرين - التجدد :كن فعالاً - ابدأ بالنهاية - ضع الأهم أولاً /النجاح للجميع - افهم أولاً - التناغم /التجدد .1.
ضع الأهم أولاً :حاول أن تجعل قراراتك لإنهاء أمورك المهمة و المستعجلة / أمورك المهمة و الغير مستعجلة .أي فكر - استثمر وقت فراغك - نمي قدرتك على الاستنباط - تأمّل - ضع خطط بعيدة المدى و خطط قريبة المدى - .* إذا لم تخطط لحياتك ، تقع عادةً في خطط الآخرين .؛4.
Oh my Gawd, how much did I hate this one. We had to read this the summer before a freshman college Intro to Business Class - perhaps I read it at the wrong age? When Steven Covey starts talking about his kid mowing the lawn and the motivation behind it...ugh! Needless to say, I only got through about 2 of the 7 habits - I guess I'm not a highly effective person. And I will not be purchasing any of Mr Covey's time management calendar systems either, thank you very much.
The principles of behavior covered in this groundbreaking and long-respected book are of great worth to anyone seeking success in career, family, or any other aspect of their life.
Covey discusses first the actions we must take (or habits we must develop) internally first - getting our heads and hearts right first.
These include, thinking win/win, seeking first to understand and then to be understood, and achieving synergy with others.
Any serious athlete understands that principle.Outstanding book, especially when linked with his expanded discussion of Habit 3, putting first things first, in the book by the same title.
النسخه المترجمه كارثه من كوارث الزمانجعلتنى اكره الكتاب واكره المؤلف واكره القراءه بذاتها

I'm not able to rate this fairly as a reader coming to it in 2017. This was one of the first "personal development" books, and the other 4 thousand books I've read on the topic all borrow from it heavily. The thing is, they borrow from it, and then make it better in every way: more interesting, more relevant, better writing, more concise writing, better anecdotes and examples.This is a classic, but I don't recommend reading it.
It’s a book that is rich and dense, but worth the time and energy.The first notion that struck me was ‘the fundamental shift of perception’, which changes our perspective on things in matter of seconds.
If there is one technique that has improved my relation with people, both personal and professional, it’s this: now I listen to understand, see things from the perspective of the other.
May be it’s the human nature not to seek synergy, but, in any case, I’ve applied this in my personal relations, and that has changed my life.His chapter on renewal convinced me to have a role and goal.
This book was just alright.
I was slightly disappointed as I have had this book recommended to me by countless people so I did expect better.
I felt it could have been condensed to a quarter of its size easily.The book was also written in the 80s and I could easily tell (personally, I feel it's in need of a 21st Century update).
I did give it 3-stars though because there were parts I found useful and interesting, especially the section about writing a mission statement for oneself.
I guess this book may be more suited to people in the business world.
اقتباسات من الكتاب: كوفي: كلما تمكنت من فهم الآخرين فهما عميقا زاد تقديرك لهم وزاد شعورك باحترامهمكو
Dividing my life into squares, writing in those squares the things I have to do, then doing the "most important" may make me effective, but is that my best life?
By forgetting about the time and shimming the door knob that has been bothering me for weeks, and then remembering that it is time to pick up my child from school, he learns independence and I can cross the darn rattling doorknob off my to do list.
You will learn a great deal about yourself and others.
Reading The Seven Habits was just one of many moderate steps on a journey that, years on, still stretches endlessly into the horizon.But the part that had the greatest effect on me, looking back, is the notion of the Personal Mission Statement; a written representation of who you are and who you want to be.
This book changed how I worked and how I set goals.
It isn't the feel-good self-help book it appears.
Read again before going back to work in January 2014.
I'm letting music librarianship go and focusing on being an assistant director in the library, and also to figuring out what the next move will be in a few years.
A couple of things I'm mulling over after the second read:-Moving beyond to-do lists, which can be a false sense of achievement-Not letting work be the only place where goals are set-Valuing difference-Becoming a person who helps others achieve their goals-Quadrant II (again)

كتاب رأئع رائع رائعكل صفحة منه تحمل بين طياتها معلومات قيمة ومفيدة!الكتاب عبارة عن تنمية بشرية وسيرة ذاتية وادارة اعمال وادارة الذات والكثير !افضل مافى الكتاب انه ليس كغيره من الكتب التنموية التى قرأتها.. الكتب الاخرى تحدث تغييرا ظاهريا من حيث طريقة معاملاتك مع الاشخاص التى قد ينتابها بعض من النفاق !لكن هذا الكتاب يحدث تغييرا جذريا بداخلك ويكون منبع التغيير داخلياوليس ظاهريا فقط!يساعد على تطوير الشخصية بكامل إرادتك اسلوب العرض قد يصيب البعض بالملل .. لكن وفرة المعلومات تطغى على الملل#ينصح به
It took me months to finish the book, as I kept practicing and re-read the habits from time to time. Besides, the book's contents is very compact that requires full focus to absorb all the ideas. But it's worth. Remind me of principles in life, giving practical guides on how to change ourselves, how important human interaction is. Praises are not enough for this powerful book. It's a must read book for a man in his quest for excellence.
