https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47916.Obernewtyn
Ariel was even funny at times, though I'm certain Carmody didn't mean for his character to be humorous.I love post-apocalyptic fiction, and Carmody did a great job creating a society controlled by a fearful religious faction.
At times, however, I felt the author overused Elspeth's magical abilities to conveniently get her out of jams and found it a little contrived at times.While the story didn't seem overly original to me, the totalitarian society controlled by a religious faction fearful of the Misfits' mental abilities was interesting, as well as the variety of things one can do with her mind.Obernewtyn was short, easy, and fun to read.
The narrator tells us he or she is searching for something, is feeling anxious, is crying because of so and so, is angry because of so and so, is friends with so and so.
******************In short, the entire novel reads like a book version of bad and generic rpg game where the writers have set up a world with potential and characters who have interesting backgrounds, only for the whole thing to fall flat because the writers can't be bothered to spend more then a page on a scene and show instead of tell.
Dameon, a blind boy and the son of a Councilman, is Empathetic, able to feel the emotions of others.Making friends for the first time in her life, Elspeth is far from relaxed at Obernewtyn: the farm overseer, Rushton, seems to openly dislike Elspeth for no apparent reason; Madame Vega has yet to return from her tour of the Lowlands, collecting Orphans, but in her absence a favoured twelve-year-old boy with an angelic face, Ariel, rules the roost with his haughty arrogance and sly cruelty.
DNF at page 66. It was just so boring and was putting me in the worst slump! The only redeeming factor was the talking cat, but even that wasn't enough to get me to finish it!
I tried really hard to get into this book, but I felt no connection with the main character. The story might have been very good, but I kept getting distracted and bored because of the descriptions of scenery and setting. Setting can be very important, but I just couldn't get into the book because it got in the way. I'd like to try it again sometime, since I ended up skimming the ending.
This one thing was really getting on my nerves and I just couldn't enjoy the book the way I should have.When certain characters are speaking, their accents are demonstrated in the most frustrating way.
Really?I know it's a nit picky thing, but I think I'm entitled to not getting an apostrophe headache every time I turn the page.
Great storyline which works well as a standalone, even though I am looking forward to reading the rest of the series.I don't know why, as they are completely different, but it sort of reminded me of the Dumbledore's Army part of Harry Potter.
It made the book seem unplanned, as if Isobelle Carmody had just been writing and writing, never having a complete idea of what would happen and where her story would lead.My second problem came with the lack of action.
The second she meets her new friends at Obernewtyn, she goes around prying into their minds, digging into their thoughts, like it's any of her bloody business.She does this every so often I want to backhand the bitch and teach her a lesson or two about manners and basic human decency.
It's not like they were evil masterminds and she needed to uncover their secrets to rescue the world.
I first read this when I was a young teenager and having recently picked up some second hand copies of the first three novels from my favourite book man at my local market, I decided it was high time I gave them a re-read to see if they stood the test of time.
And with the final installment finally meant to be coming out this year, I hope to read the rest of this series before then, so I am up to speed for the closing chapter of this great story.
This book has1) Awesome animal characters2) Intriguing mystery3) Thought provoking mesh between sci-fi and fantasy4) A likable heroine5) Brilliantly written 6) A well thought out world7) No plot-hinging whinny cry-baby romanceWith all of those factors how could I not love this book? It's exactly the kind of book that you want to curl up and read on a rainy day. I feel warm inside just thinking about it. Will definitely be reading the others is the series ASAP.
This was the author's first book, written in her twenties, and it has some flaws. But the story and characters have had a powerful hold on my imagination since I first read it in my twenties, and I found it just as compelling and suspenseful this time around. I'm so excited that the rest of the series is going to be made available in America! For years you could only get the first 3 books.
As the first book in a very long series it sets the stage for further development, but there is not enough tension for it to stand strongly alone.
There are so many other dystopian novels that cover the same ground that it is familiar territory for anyone who enjoys this genre.I liked some of the side characters, there were definitely some unusual ones, and I hope to see them again as I make my way through the series.
It is so difficult to know when reading the first novel in a lengthy series like this one what (or who) will become significant in future volumes.
While I feel that the post-apocalyptic genre has pretty much done to ahem, death, I don't mind books that add new ideas and try and take the genre in new directions. Sadly, while this book attempts that, it doesn't make it, and I didn't feel any emotional connection to any of the major characters, and worse, I felt the book suffered by the author explaining nothing, and waiting for the story to develop as way of explanation. The climax while satisfying was short and didn't have any bang. I am uncertain if I will read the next in the series.
I'm gonna re-read this one day because I don't think I was in the right /mind space/ for it.
At Obernewtyn, she met a handful of Misfits and discovered, to her great horror, that there are people searching for the weapon that caused the Great White.What I don't like about epic fantasy books is the common pattern to spend copious pages describing the imagined world before the real action begins.
It's a 7 part series and it would be extremely dull if she reached her extremes at the first one.Maruman, the cat who had been the key for Elspeth to discover her abilities and became her companion, is also an interesting one.
I don't really know how to explain that, except that I've read dystopian/post-apocalyptic fiction from then and from now, and it very much reads like the former.
The people running Obernewtyn appear to be evil.
While I liked Elspeth, Matthew and Dameon well enough, all I really know is that they're nice people with powers.
I enjoyed the idea of this book, but never got sucked into Carmody's world.Personally, I would label the book more post-apocalyptic than dystopian, though many people on Goodreads would disagree with me.
So I got the first one from the library and towards the end of the first book I knew this was something interesting.
And then when I got to the third book, I was desperate to finish it and see what happens that one night I stayed up to finish Ashling without so much as speaking to my husband one night.
In a matter of a week, I picked up four books and didn’t finish any of them (although one I know I will return to shortly).
The author has got quite the imagination and even though it takes place on Earth, it might as well be Middle-Earth or something else like it.
We join the story of Elspeth several years later, there are 'Bad Lands' where 'White Stick' a source of energy is collected from by people who are 'misfits'.Basically a Nuclear war has occurred and the bad lands is where radiation still exists and the by-product is collected as a fuel.
The humans that are sent to mine the white stick get sick and die, like radiation poisoning.Elspeth is young and is sent to a 'farm' for misfits, where she discovers there are others like her with their own powers.The books that follow Obernewtyn become very descriptive so I would suggest if you enjoy this first book continue with the rest, you will be well rewarded.
I just love this series so much. Rereading it (again) I fell in love with the characters and world all over again, although I do wonder if I enjoy it so much because I have read all the other books and have a deeper connection with them all from future books. I will admit that the first book doesn't have as much in the way of character building and world building as the subsequent books. But an amazing book none the less and I cannot wait to read the rest.
While I found this a bit slow to get into, the world building that Carmody does is fantastic. I flew through the last half of the book, flipping through the pages and holding my breath while Elspeth was sneaking around the property and the house, keeping my fingers crossed that she wouldn't get caught.... It was very suspenseful! Looking forward to reading the rest of the books in this series.
The beginning of a quest. The start of figuring out who you are?
Have I said before how much I love audio books? They are the best way to read and do something else! So, with the long wait between titles, I've not wanted to get into  The Red Queen , (Obernewtyn #7), because I've forgotten so much of the original story. Listening to Isobelle read her own work is magical, and despite how long ago it was written, Obernewtyn stands the test of time. Elspeth Gordie is the quintessential 'clueless' hero. Kept intentionally ignorant (an uneducated population is a co
, (Obernewtyn #7), because I've forgotten so much of the original story.
Listening to Isobelle read her own work is magical, and despite how long ago it was written, Obernewtyn stands the test of time.
Misfits are shunned, at the most extreme they are burned, and when Elspeth is outed as a Misfit she is sent to the mountains to live at Obernewtyn.This is a story told within a complete 'world', which has been clearly and believably brought to life by Carmody, and the variety of characters and situations, although many, are deftly controlled to benefit the story.
Obernewtyn Chronicles
I picked up this book after hearing amazing things about it from Jodi McAlister at Melbourne Supernova earlier this year. It had a bit of a slow start but I was hooked after reading about a talking cat - who does not want a talking cat??? I liked where the story headed and am looking forward to continuing the series.
I think im hooked
A decent read. Interesting concept, I feel like this laid the groundwork for a lot of the more modern books. Could suit a year 9/10 audience.
I loved this as much as the first time I read it, if not more as I add my experiences I've had since I first read it. An original story with an alternative spin on the old twists of telepathy, empaths etc etc. I loved the names and the way the 'before time' was seen and described and what happened post apocalypse. Bring on the next in the series!
This was pretty great, I was really interested in the magic and liked that there were slow reveals about how much was actually possible, although it was unfortunate that there was a real limit to any character or world building aside from the first few pages introducing the whole scenario. I would have loved a bit more of that background story and a little less "this character did this, oh no this character is stuck" a little more descriptive/emotive language would be nice sometimes!Still, overall an enjoyable YA fantasy read and I will be continuing the series.
which then leaves you wondering if what they are saying is said openly or secretly...or what's happening exactly...etc.etc.).Why did half way through the book Elspeth reveal that her ability is not only telepathic but also telekinetic?
She should have listed her general powers somewhere near the beginning of the book.(Abed and Troy from the show Community)But as I said, and as Abed from the show Community put it, the main trouble is that sometimes characters did something that the audience would not do.
The main character, Elspeth, is secretly a Misfit and currently resides in an orphanage with her older brother, though his presence holds little comfort since he embraced the fanatical teachings that led to their parents being burned for sedition.
Carmody wants to show that some character have back-country accents, so their dialogue contains alternate spellings that are difficult to decipher sometimes.
It just felt like a weird place to end, and I see why they put the first two books together.TL;DR--Despite the criticisms I've outlined, I still like this story and the main character, and would recommend it to someone else that would like a subtle meld of historical fantasy with post-apocalyptic fantasy.
Die Welt existiert nicht mehr so, wie sie war, denn es gab eine Nuklearkatastrophe, aus dieser entstehen natürlich auch Mutationen, gegen diese wird stark gegen angegangen.
Der Recht interessant ist und manchmal auch was fantastisches hat, dieser besonders an den Tieren haftet.Bewertung:Die Story finde ich sehr interessant.
Sie versucht sich so gut zu schützen, wie es möglich ist in dieser grausamen Welt.Auch viele andere Charaktere haftet was interessantes an.
Auch Elspeth kommt nicht sofort hinter jeden und bildet sich auch mal die falsche Meinung.Mit auf den Weg begleiten mich Telepathie, was ja wirklich sehr interessant ist.
I love this book because its the prelim for the rest of the series that I fell in love with at 13.
However in the post apolocalyptic world that she grew up in individuals with such abilities are sent to do slave labour, killed or like elspeth sent to a remote mountain location and school for misfits, obernewytyn.
I was dissapointed that I had to wait to subsequent novels to find out more about rushton, who made me love this series anymore.I am set on getting isobelle carmody the recognition she deserves for this wonderful series so I would really love everyone to give this a go.
