https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23151117-everyone-belongs-to-god
In a world where we Christians attempt to separate ourselves in Christian enclaves, Blumhardt insists that God is at work in Jesus Christ in and through the Church, but even sometimes beyond it.
The Church's work is the continued work of Jesus Christ in the world, by incarnating the Risen One in love.
Because in the reading of it, the scales fell from my own eyes, in order to see the world as God in Jesus Christ sees the world.___________________I received a free copy of this book from Plough Publishing in exchange for my honest review here.
Mr. Sweet suggested the best evangelism is the kind that wakes us up to the good news that God has provided, the truth that surrounds you even in your unbelief.
Mr. Blumhardt wrote his words over one hundred years ago, in personal letters to his son-in-law, a missionary to China.Mr. Blumhardt challenges his son to live among the common people as neighbors and friends, to gain their trust by being a decent human being.
If I'm serious about wrapping my life in the glorious Gospel, and trying to give people what God in Christ has given me, then I'd better return to this volume a few times in the coming years.
He says most of the material in the book was written by Blumhardt to Richard Wilhelm (1873~1930), his son-in-law who went as a missionary to China.
Blumhardt writes to Wilhelm, “Remember, there is no other purpose in your mission work than to proclaim God’s kingdom and bring it to the people (Matt.
In the next chapter Blumhardt writes, “It is not our preaching but our life that must give people light” (p.
“Make God’s Love Known” is the title of the sixth chapter, and in it Blumhardt writes, “There is hope for all.
Everyone Belongs to God is an encouraging and inspirational guide that opens the reader’s eyes to a new way of seeing those we encounter day by day.There remains a precious jewel in every person, which is stronger than any outward pressure in their lives (John 1:9).The author, Christoph Friedrich Blumhardt (1842-1919), wasn’t a scholar.
But we are to be examples and guides, and to trust that it is God who is working in the heads and hearts of the people around us, and it’s Him alone who can transform souls.The chapter headings below give a vibrant look at the personality of this book:1.
I would like to state that I was one of the lucky winners of the Goodreads "First Reads" contest and received this book.
I enjoyed reading this book and will pass it along to as many friends as I can.
Blumhardt does not address any particular theology and his message is simple this, the risen Christ draws all of humanity to Himself.
His message rang through to me that we should befriend and lead people to Christ without expecting them to become just like us.
This book of collected letters by Blumhardt forms an inspiring read.
It is a constant reminder that justs because one thinks of themselves as Christian they are no better than the next person.
God is so big that everyone belongs to him and for whom he sent His Son into the world.Written nearly a century ago, the message of this book is timeless and should be read by everyone who thinks that they have a mission of talking or working with others for God.J. Robert Ewbank author "John Wesley, Natural Man, and the Isms" "Wesley's Wars" and "To Whom It May Concern"
I can't rate this book highly enough. This is not the type of book that you can sit down and whip through in an hour, I don't even think I'm satisfied reading it through once. This book is going to stay with me for a long time.
At times, his writings sound more like a social gospel, a message against political oppression and social injustice, and the exhortation is to resist and obtain deliverance from worldly powers and structures.However, not having a full idea of his theological beliefs, these thoughts on Blumhardt's comments are merely conjecture.Blumhardt's father, Johann Christoph Blumhardt, wherein is the account of his battle with real demonic forces in the book "The Awakening," seems to have had an influence as to the reality of Satan and demons, at least, implied in some places in this collection of his son's letters to his missionary son-in-law; for example, where he writes, "God reveals himself as the one, holy God through the deeds of the Spirit, which no amount of piety or learning can replace" (p.3); and, again, "If we can't see any of God's help in this world, who can guarantee that there will beheld in the next?
It gets past all the unfortunate church posturing and marketing to the heart of the Gospel: the love of ALL of our neighbors...
Jesus irritated and offended all of the pious and reached out to each and every person that crossed his path with compassion, regardless of reputation.The best spiritual Gospel if finding the divine light within (Christ Light within) then seeing it in everyone else, which compels service.
The best social Gospel cuts through the church posturing and politics of whose blessed and whose cursed to simply reaching out in compassion to the hidden Christ who appears before us in multitudinous guises (Matthew 25:31-46).I am highly recommending this book now.
This book reprints the letters of a Lutheran pastor to his missionary son-in-law in the late 1800's and early 1900's, and while I understand much and know many Lutherans I find that the pastor goes way off the grid in something's while providing keen insight on others.
For example, his insight into colonialism and parallel efforts in evangelization of the "heathen" are on the mark, and the positional title of the book, that everyone belongs to God regardless of confession, race, creed or nationality is well ahead of his time.
Regardless, as a historical collection of his letters it allowed me an insight in time and history of colonial Europe and the challenges and struggles of missionaries of conscience.
Everyone Belongs to God is a series of letters written by Christoph Friedrich Blumhardt to his missionary son-in-law, Richard Wilhelm.
Although initially some of what he says sounds shocking, he explains his message with scripture and the wisdom of a man with a heart for Jesus Christ.
Blumhardt knew that he had a great influence over his son-in-law and felt a responsibility for his guidance.
He wrote over a hundred letters to Wilhelm between 1898 and 1914.
It offers practical spiritual advice encouraging the reader to look where Jesus is already moving and our contributions are to have a quiet influence.
This was a pretty decent little book.
As it is a compilation of multiple sources written by Blumhardt, there were spots where it did not flow as well as one would expect had he written it as a book.
However, it flows well enough to make for a pretty quick read (though one may spend more time dwelling on the thoughts Blumhardt shared).
I would also be interested to understand better the theological basis from which he wrote; it would help with understanding the context for his perspective.
I loved the push toward not making people similar to us, but to showing the love our Father to everyone around us.
The book is a constant reminder that justs because one thinks of themselves as Christian they are no better than the next person. God is bigger than denominations, sects and other divisions of man. God is so big that everyone belongs to him and for whom he sent His Son into the world. The book is based on a collection of 100 year old letters from a famous pastor to his missionary son-in-law. Well worth the read.
Really 3.5. This book was gook. It had great nuggets to pick out and really savor. One really important part for me was he's writing on loving all people, even the unloveable. This is what we are called to do. That made the whole book worth it for me. There were other valuable nuggets in there as well.
This book is really important for church professionals to read. It is such a slim volume, but packed with truth and things I needed to hear, about service to God and neighbor, evangelism, and being in mission for Christ.
The thing that makes this book interesting is that it was written 100 years ago. Other than that, Blumhardt attempts to lay out a new kind of Christian mission, one that is perhaps more welcomed, inclusive, applicable -- but can't escape off-putting Christian language and thought.
The best and most inspiring Christian book I've ever read. It opened my mind about God's perspective and heart for ALL people. He desires His Kingdom to be known now.
Excellent read. Worth the reread. Damning and prophetic in the best possible sense.
