https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/295809.Magic_by_the_Lake
they get various wishes and go on various adventures including seeing pirates, cannibals, Antarctica, and what it's like to be a few years older and going on a date with a couple pretentious twits.
they spend the last adventure trying to figure out how to help their stepdad's ailing business, and that's just adorable.
favorite part was when they stumble across another group of kids on their own magical adventure with their own magical rules that must be followed.
It wouldn't all end like this.
The sequel to Half Magic just doesn't have the same kind of whimsical magic. Adriana and I devoured Half Magic, which I loved as a kid, but this one we kept putting down. Adriana loves to read series (Oz, Little House, Ramona), but this one was better off as a single book. I do like the references to other stories in it, which give me ideas about other things it might be fun to read with her, and I'm looking forward to reading other Edward Eager books with her.
On p1, Katharine ("nine" p 68) stands up (before seat belts) beside Mark and Jane (12 going into "seventh grade" p 13 "twelve" p 67), had to search for tiny Martha ("seven" p 133) between parents, Smiths, in front.
By wishes, the whole lake is filled with magic beings "fairies ..
Being sunset and dinnertime, maybe not.Mark grabs the tortoise's head, so he agrees to three more wishes.
On that stormy, leaky roof day, wishes seem far till Jane realizes "lake water ..
(view spoiler)[Mark's "O Turtle" p 95 brings a talking penguin, who pops them aboard an iceberg float.
Silly Mark just wishes they follow.
Magic by the Lake was so good I had to start the four book of the series right away. I'm loving to get to know Eager's book and making the decision to read his series over the summer was one of the best decisions in my life!
We love Edward Eager!
Classic children's fantasy fiction. Just excellent. Such a nostalgic treat to revisit these great stories again with my own children now, after all these years. Lovin' every minute of it.
After reading Half Magic I was delighted to learn, as was my daughter, that Edward Eager wrote a sequel to it.
In the first story the children do not realize initially that they have obtained a magical coin that can make their wishes come true.
Then there's the fact that the magic is only potent enough to make a wish come half true, causing all manner of trouble until they figure out how best to utilize it.
In the sequel it's an entire lake that is magical, with a talking turtle as its representative.
Eager was a British playwright who began to write his own children’s stories when he couldn’t find anything suitable to read to his son.
His books are a lovely combination of realistic children and magical adventures.I enjoyed reading Half Magic a few years ago, but its sequel, Magic by the Lake, is easily twice as funny.
They meet a magic turtle, discover that the lake is enchanted, and have a wonderful summer of adventures.The excellent writing, wry humor and constant nod to other children’s books make this story a booklover’s delight.
Jane, Mark, Katherine, and Martha are back in another magical adventure, this time on vacation by the lake.
A talking turtle guides them through the difficulties of wishing with "wet magic" from the lake, and they encounter mermaids, pirates, buried treasure, and take a trek to the South Pole.But their selfish wishes get them into trouble, and it's only when they learn to use their wishes for the good of others that the magic truly begins.One of the best things about Edward Eager's stories is that the children are doing ordinary things in between their magical adventures, and their everyday doings are interrupted by the extraordinary.
I read this one because I had a migraine, and it helped me to feel better, took my mind off the pain, and I read it all in one sitting.
This sequel to Half Magic is something I read out loud to my children. But it's instructive from a plot perspective. Half Magic introduced a brilliantly simple magical device, and much of the humor and plot spun from its tidy rules. (The gorgeously witty omniscient narration didn't hurt either.)Fantasy writers take note--without the inspired "rule" which governs Half Magic, the sequel fails. The magic of this second book is scattershot, and the logic crumbles quickly. Of course I finished reading it aloud to the kids, but I couldn't wait until it ended.
I read Magic by the Lake with my 10-year-old, and unfortunately, we were both disappointed. After reading -- and loving -- Half Magic, we expected great things from this sequel. Sadly, Magic by the Lake just doesn't hold up in comparison to Half Magic. The magic in the story is rather amorphous, with weird rules that shift and make little sense, and the entire plot feels a bit haphazard. I've loved a few of Edward Eager's magical books, but Magic by the Lake is not one of the best.
Not as strong a story nor as interesting a central concept as Half Magic was but still an enjoyable read. There was a bit more racism in this book compared with Half Magic as well (including part where I chose to just imagine Ewoks instead.)I am certainly curious about the remaining books and what other sort of central magical ideas they might hold.
Edward Eager's books were stories I loved as a child and having re-read them as an adult I still quite enjoy them. The stories and characters hold up to the test of time. These books are clever and intriguing and the characters are very endearing.
It was reasonable without being mundane (ex: "the four children, while bright and often agreeable, were not saints"), thrilling without actually being frightening (there's always a deus ex machina to get them out of trouble), and picturesquely quaint (who doesn't want to read a book about lakeside magical summer adventures?).
And all in all, this book just had that delicious feel of an old-fashioned adventure, free of care and concern.I will say that there are some dated elements that bear discussing with whoever reads this.
What I hate is people rejecting books completely because of outdated stuff like that.
I have a first edition 1961 copy of it, so it looked and smelled and felt like it did when I first read it as a little girl.
I was struck, this time, by the pirate treasure chapter in which people with dark skin are described as cannibals, waving spears and saying things like "ooga booga" in a way that used to be considered humorous but is really just racist.
Eager's writing always makes many literary references that kids today may not be able to understand, but I was a bookish child and felt a little smugly superior when I caught one of them.
I’m… not sure what I expected when I picked up this book.
Because even if this is a children’s book, it has some very curious and interesting potential storylines and rules hinted at.
And they talk about magic like it’s an entity, which may have been explained more in previous books but not this one.
It’s pretty cool.
May actually check out the next book or so!What some people might be uncomfortable reading about in this book because of personal opinion or belief: I mean, it’s a children’s book so there really isn’t anything that’s a big problem…?
I certainly would have enjoyed this book more if I had read the previous books in the series.
It's more of a collection of short stories about children who continue to bump into magic.
After they bump into said magic, they have pretty much complete control over it.
(Like the genie in Aladdin.) For this reason, the book is enjoyable, but not likely to remain one if my favorites.
It's a lot like a long vacation to a lake: a series of enjoyable, low stakes adventures.
(It might be a nice book to read chapter by chapter aloud, actually.
Short and sweet.Four children: Three girls and one boy.You have children being rash and reflexive plus the ability of magic. They get into trouble after attaining their wish, and being unable to return. Goes with the theme of rash decision making. There’s some silly transformations, teleportation, some tribal cannibalism (ugh. 1957). In this book, the children became a little more altruistic in their wishes, so that was nice.A little too many deu ex machinas. Some nice puns and clever writing too.Not sure there was any character arc. They all seem the same by the end.
This book is just as good as Half Magic and Knight's Castle! SOOOOOOOO GOOOOD! I LOVE LOVE LOVE LOVE THIS BOOK!
At some point you'd think that these books were get repetitive, or wear thin, or get boring, they don't! They just stay happily adorable.
Magic by the Lake continues the Edward Eager tradition of using word play to make magic go astray. The story is cute and moves right along. It seems appropriate for all audiences.
I actually would rate this book 2.5 stars. I think the story was very good, but I think the writing style is too old-timey.
My favorite part was when the characters all managed to help Mr. Smith. My least favorite part was when they all kept wishing on the lake, wishes that led them all to trouble.
Another fun story from Edward Eager, full of charming adventures and literary allusios to classic children's stories.
Lots of what I like - witty dialogue, magic, and twist endings. I liked Half Magic better, though.
Kids loved this book! Made me want to read some E. Nesbit after researching online author inspiration.
Very interesting. Magic works in mysterious ways.
Another fun-filled magic tale from Edward Eager. Great to read, very enjoyable.
Another great book by Edward Eagar
My mom read this to me as a kid and I loved it.💞💞💞💞💞💞
