https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1911622.A_Touch_of_Mortality
I enjoyed reading this book and think it is one of the best in this excellent series that I have read so far.The author piles up detail on detail with plenty of clues and plenty of suspects and lots of undercurrents.
It is interesting to see how Meredith and Alan's relationship is developing as well.
The series needs to be read in order so that the development of the relationship between the main characters can be followed.
Saw this one coming a mile away.
Endlich mal ein Fall, bei dem Meredith sich nicht ständig in Lebensgefahr begibt. Auch erscheint mir die Stimmung zwischen den beiden lockerer und Bodicote und Jasper fand ich sehr amüsant.
Originally published on my blog here in October 1998.A Touch of Mortality is another of Ann Granger's well-written Mitchell and Markby crime novels, in much the same vein as the others in the series.
Because of (now finished) experiments on animals, Liam starts receiving threatening letters from animal rights activists, but it is not until Sally opens a parcel that turns out to be a letter bomb that they involve the police in the person of Alan Markby.Other than an over-reliance on coincidence common in crime novel series - it's incredibly dangerous to be a friend of Meredith Mitchell - there is nothing to really criticise in this well-written novel.
Once again the duo solve mysteries in an English village. Meredith finds out clues that Alan, as a police inspector, is not privy to. The couple move to the country to escape the animal rights groups who are bothering them. And then a body is found.
another winner. how does she keep it up? i thought this was one of the best so far, and it seems like i say that with each successive book.
Readable but run of the mill mystery novel lifted by a vein of dry humour running through it.
a bit different from the usual, and very good
English police procedural cozy for fans of the genre. this is a good read.
Delightful English countryside mystery. Very well written - I didn't figure it out until the very end!
Another great book about Markby and Mitchell. I liked that (even though one person died), it's mostly about attempted murder.
Ok. Pretty much the same as the previous books.
Enjoyable read. Good example of this author. Read again finished 03/11/13, from charity sale.
