https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27405006-all-our-wrong-todays
I'd rate this 4.5 stars.If  Back to the Future  and  Dark Matter  had a baby, the end result would be Elan Mastai's slightly crazy, tremendously compelling  All Our Wrong Todays . While it's not as zany as the former, or as heart-pounding as the latter, it's a really creative, thought-provoking book with a lot more heart than you'd expect from a novel about time travel.Tom Barren lives in 2016, but it's not quite the 2016 we all know—it's more like the vision of the future we all had when we wer
. While it's not as zany as the former, or as heart-pounding as the latter, it's a really creative, thought-provoking book with a lot more heart than you'd expect from a novel about time travel.Tom Barren lives in 2016, but it's not quite the 2016 we all know—it's more like the vision of the future we all had when we were growing up, the vision that science fiction and fantasy novels we might have read or movies we might have watched made us believe was a possibility.
If you like books about time travel, saving the world, and a good, healthy dose of personal and family dysfunction, this is one for you.
It's got all the Ingredients: the everyman "I'm no hero" male lead; the twee, nerdy, but unconventionally beautiful and intelligent female lead who gets the male lead in a way that no one else can; the meet-cute naturally takes place at her book store, because awww; their instant love-at-first-sight soul bond that transcends space and time; the "light banter" and "witty repartee."Problems with the ingredients: while the male lead is supposed to reform from a manipulative jerk with daddy issues to a charmingly self-deprecating and wholly relatable (but still obviously noble) average joe, his transformation is entirely too self-aware and maudlin- and he never stops being super annoying; the contrived witticisms don't land, and the weighty, heart-felt monologues would probably be more powerful with a moving soundtrack and some closeups of forced tears; Tom's lampshading that he's dumb and not a very good writer doesn't make up for the fact that he's pretty dumb and the writing isn't very good.Bottom line: regardless of its content, a decent rom-com hinges on the charm and charisma of its leads.
There are some clever ideas here, but the way this book is written is so obnoxious that a three star rating feels exceptionally generous.All Our Wrong Todays is the story of Tom Barren, who travels back in time to the exact moment the future was born and fucks up the timeline so irretrievably that he winds up in our reality.
This Sci Fi had a few very interesting ideas! I did listen to it as an audiobook and even though the author did a great job at narrating it, I would recommend reading the physical copy of it. One chapter consisted mostly of "F*ck" and a few passages were backward... not ideal to listen to!I had a few issues with it that I'll explain in my Wrap Up at the end of the month since I'm having a hard time explaining them here!
Because that’s one of the things about All Our Wrong Todays that got under my skin first - it reads like Mastai is using the science fiction elements as window dressing for the story he actually wants to tell, which is basically about a less-than-ordinary guy achieving his dream life with very little actual effort.
I feel like it should be self-explanatory that a child is a person first, not a magical cure-all, but apparently, that’s a difficult concept for some people.Fundamentally it gets at another persistent problem of this book: Tom doesn’t really consider people other than himself.
But once the actual time travel occurs about 25% of the way in, the pace picks up, the element of suspense kicks in, Tom somewhat inexplicably develops a more attractive and engaging personality (though a reason for that is suggested much later in the story), and this novel turned into a quick, gripping read that was almost impossible to put down.All Our Wrong Todays is a time travel/alternate timelines science fiction novel that actually pays some serious attention to the paradoxes and theoretical difficulties with time travel.
Every person you meet introduces the accident of that person to you. What can go right and what can go wrong. There is no intimacy without consequence.  To get it out of the way, there's a lot of set up in All Our Wrong Todays, and it took me a bit to find a feel for this book and fall into it. But once Mastai gets past the set up and things are happening, the smart, funny prose and more realized characters propelled me forward, and even if the stakes and thrills aren't seemingly as high as in
But once Mastai gets past the set up and things are happening, the smart, funny prose and more realized characters propelled me forward, and even if the stakes and thrills aren't seemingly as high as in Dark Matter (to which this will be inevitably compared, and I'm guilty too), it's so well written and fresh and does time travel well but doesn't rely on it for its overall success, hitting the familiar beats but also introducing new concepts and ideas.
I'm always on the prowl for a good time-travel and alternate-reality kick, so when this one slid by me, blaring on its speakers that it was a very self-aware member of its species, I just had to turn my head an look.I'm so glad I did.
Yes. An alternate reality memoir with several time-machine encounters.
A time-traveling alternate-dimensional love story with apocalyptic undertones.
:)Too bad the demons are still out to play.This novel, ahem, memoir, just kept getting better and better.
Even from a straight SF standpoint, the author goes much deeper into paradoxes and consequences than I usually see in these kinds of novels.But the real joy is in the characters.
;) I'm going to avoid specific details about the story's path, but here's a review summary for those who don't want to know as little as possible: The tone is lighthearted and self-aware, making it an entertaining read.
Unfortunately, Tom screwed that up for all of us when he traveled back in time to witness the moment that made his world possible.
Tom could be exhausting at times and I didn't feel a strong emotional pull towards him or his love life, but All Our Wrong Todays is entertaining and even made me laugh!
Thank you to the author, Elan Mastai, and the publisher, Penguin, for this opportunity.A book set in an alternative present sounded like such an intriguing concept for a book.
And while I certainly did find this interesting, the rather dry narrative voice started to dull my affinity, as the story progressed.This book is set out as a fictional memoir, and it does an excellent job of sounding like just that.
One reckless decision, made in the midst of high emotion, changes not only his own story, but the entire world's progression, as he knows it.
Yes, there are many advantages of the techno-utopia he’s come from but this low tech world with it’s ‘dirty’ energy and a distinct lack of comparative home comforts still has something to offer.The dialogue is sharp and witty and the whole thing is permeated with enough science that it makes Tom’s experiences feel rather more believable than you might think.
I didn’t understand the science, of course, but it did provide a smidgen of belief that there is more to this time travel thing than hard-core sceptics would have you think.
I feel like that's important to share because any people love all of those books, but even then I'm hesitant to recommend this one.
The chapters are very short, and there are some fun plot twists along the way that keep you hanging on, but as I moved along I felt like the book should be over, but there were still a lot of pages left to go.
Again, I felt like the author had a really cool idea, but those ideas didn't really translate into a good story.
The end of the book just left me wanting to put it down.
It all happened, more or less exactly as envisioned. I’m not talking about the future. I’m talking about the present. Today, in the year 2016, humanity lives in a techno-utopian paradise of abundance, purpose, and wonder.Except we don’t. Of course we don’t. We life in a world where, sure, there are iPhones and 3D printers and, I don’t know, drone strikes or whatever. But it hardly looks like The Jetsons. Except it should. And it did. Until it didn’t. But it would have, if I hadn’t done what I d
His father only gives him an opportunity to participate in his grand experiment (first attempt at real time travel) after Tom's mother dies in a freak accident.
He is faced with the ultimate decision - fix what he messed up and go back to the way things were supposed to be or just let things be and live in the new 2016.What is interesting about this book is the style of writing.
Exactly, his personality makes the book work.The thing is: Tom is not a scientist, but this is a book involving time travel and scientific explanations.
It all doesn't necessarily make sense the way it would in a book like  The Martian, so don't expect "real" sci-fi.
That's so sweet!The only thing some people didn't like about this book was the writing style.
It's meandering, meaning , you know when someone is telling you a story and then goes off into five different stories on the way until you almost forget what the original subject was?
I know you think that is crazy since I totally NEVER go off subject when I write reviews to tell you things about my dog or love of chocolate or how the book reminds me of something completely different that may or may not be like a burrito somehow.....In other words, if you have actually read my review to this point, and haven't unfriended and blocked me for being a pain in the ass, snarky, unhelpful, sub-par reviewer, you might like this book.
What happens next is funny, engaging, full of little life insights and a whole lot of joy to read.The humour is quirky and ironic, the time travel aspects are full of scientific what if scenario’s (except here of course the what if’s are actually happening) this is a love story on a sugar high (but not at all saccharine) Elan Mastai has an unconventional slightly wacky writing style that immerses you into Tom’s world and has you rooting for him all the way.The short snappy chapters make this an ideal book for bedtime (or anytime that you just want to have a fast moment of indulgence reading) and also keep the story flowing out in somewhat linear style.
★★★  "...when you invent a new technology, you also invent the accident of that technology. When you invent the car, you also invent the car accident. When you invent the plane, you also invent the plane crash. When you invent nuclear fission, you also invent the nuclear meltdown."   And when you invent a time machine... yeah. Written in memoir style, All Our Wrong Todays showcases Tom Barren, the significantly less talented son of a scientist/physicist/inventor/genius, who acts before he thinks
Written in memoir style, All Our Wrong Todays showcases Tom Barren, the significantly less talented son of a scientist/physicist/inventor/genius, who acts before he thinks and tests out his father's newest invention.
I saw All Our Wrong Todays described as Dark Matter meets Back To The Future and I honestly can't describe it any better than that.
Overall, I liked All Our Wrong Todays.
If you like time travel stories that aren't too heavy on the sci-fi aspect, I would recommend All Our Wrong Todays.
The current state of the world is the consequence of that belief.
And really, I love anything that I think might give me an excuse to make references to The Darkest Timeline in my review so let's get that out of the way: This is a time-travel adventure romance featuring Tom, a ne’er-do-well type in an alternate timeline version of 2016 where things look a little more Jetsonsy.
Tom has a crush on the star chrononaut, Penelope, and his feelings for her lead him to accidentally travel back 50 years, interrupt that famous invention, and eventually end up in a different version of 2016—one that looks like ours.
Sigh....Well, the beginning was freaking amazing...then it slowed down to where I almost DNF'd it.
It picked back up at the 30% mark...then it got slow again.
Around the 70% mark I almost DNF'd it again.
The synopsis sounded rad, unfortunately, it felt I had already read this storyline somewhere else.
There were though a few times, I was surprised to where the story had gone and the turn of events.Hence, why again I gave it a 2 stars.
There were parts I loved and then parts I hated.
So overall, it was a fun read at times-and I liked it-just didn't love this one...bummer.
Goodreads Giveaway!
He lives in the present time but in a completely different alternative reality, the world he lives in is a quasi-utopian environment where war, diseases and poverty have been eradicated.
The present reality is different because back in 1965 a technological event happened that allowed the world to develop into the wonderful place that it now is (the alternative reality).
Then something happens, Tom travels back in time and drama ensues.
I listened to the audiobook and was impressed with the narrator, the intonation, pauses and beautiful voice then I looked him up and the narrator happens to be the author.
I've always had a deep love for the time-travel scifi genre, my guilty pleasure, and this book provides two experiences through machines created by different crazy-genius scientists!
Only huge advances in all the sciences.When Penelope, the scientist trained for the trip, commits suicide, Tom (her understudy and lover) decides to attempt the experiment on his own--with reality-changing results.
In this reality, he is 'John' Barren, the famous architect, and his family is much changed: they're more loving, his mother is still alive and he has an adult little sister!
And when he finds 'Penny,' she is a completely different person--a bookstore owner who might actually come to love Tom/John.So which reality would you choose?
I remember being irritated by the main character, the more time I spent with him, and though I felt a little sorry for him at the beginning of the story because of his father's behaviour, I gradually became less and less sympathetic with the lead.
This is too often used in stories and I think alt-Penelope, though a little upset by her rape, was not as affected as I would have expected.
(hide spoiler)]As this book didn't stick in my brain overly well, and I didn't particularly like or respect the main character I'm dropping it down to 2.5 stars.
This is a bit similar to Dark Matter by Blake Crouch (a novel I rated 5 stars) and sadly it influenced how much I enjoyed this one.
I know it's shallow and wrong to compare but the both novels tackle on time traveling and/or multiverses.
I wanted to know what was going to happen next, especially a plot like time traveling.
If you like time travel plots or multiverse themed novels, then don't hesitate to pick this one up and read it as fast as you can.
I myself enjoyed the plot and the characters, so it's my opinion to highly recommend this novel.
A compelling time travel story in the same class as Dark Matter, but one I enjoyed more.This book has a bit more character development than Dark Matter, and is a little more thoughtful rather than action packed. I liked the intelligent and slightly humorous conversational style of the writing, which made the events seem more personal.Recommended particularly to enthusiasts of time travel stories.
When a time travel mishap lands Tom in our version of reality though it seems more like a dystopian wasteland to Tom without the numerous inventions he knew his whole life.
Now for Tom he has a decision to make on whether he should try to save the world he knew or stay in the one he accidentally ended up in.
All the while the main character is adjusting to our world we learn what his had been like as he struggles with being torn between his futuristic society that wasn't quite perfect and the life he has found in our world.
I liked the science parts but none of the philosophy or romance.The author seems to have really wanted to write a love story but felt he had to write a manly sci fi version rather than the sappy, soft focus romance he craved.
The problem is that I wasn't interested in the slightest in either of the love stories in this book.
The protagonist in this first person narrative is Tom Barren (or John Barren in the altered timeline).
That's a problem with the first person point of view in a book, and Tom is an extremely whiny narrator.
DNF @ Page 75. The writing in this one is hella choppy and all over the place. The narrator is thoroughly unlikable. The story twists and turns like a snake and all sorts of unnecessary complications are being thrown in. The Goosebumps books' chapters are longer. Casual sexism abounds. Et cetera. In short: fuck this book. Next!
The memoir of a time traveler from an alternate present who's actions in the past have resulted in the world we live in.Tom Barren's world is the 50's version of a science fictional utopia that has more in common with the Jetsons than our world.
Due to a disaster in which Tom is complicit, it looks like the whole project will fail, but Tom instead becomes the world's first time traveler and goes back to the late 50s.
But the future isn't done with Tom Barren.This book has a lot of similarities with Dark Matter.
In another sense, Tom grows considerably throughout the book because he has such a rotten start and goes on to save the world.
DNF @ 8%I was so thrilled to get an early review copy of this fascinating sounding Utopian time-travel adventure.
Tom is a man in his thirties but comes off sounding like a confused teenager.
“I got the wary sense she felt some shudder of excitement at me so openly expressing my grief to her, to her alone, as if she were the only one who could coax it out of me before it rotted right through my skin.Looking back, it’s like the grief was an offering I made to them in exchange for their bodies and, for reasons I’m not insightful enough to understand, my tears turned them on.”
But actually the real world, the world we live in, this is the dystopia."Marai creates (and reads) a very compelling story but one I find difficul to define.
Actually, anti-hero would be more fitting.
What is fascinating is this utopia world he lives in, its technologies and science, how these molded humans' ways of life and interactions, the events that lead to its annihilation, and how this is all shown to us.The story has a very cinematographic feel to it, even in the slower beginning.
It wasn't what I expected, at all, but I ended up really enjoying it.
