https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8522.For_Kicks
Daniel Roke feels trapped. His parents had both drowned in a sailing accident when he was eighteen, his two sisters and brother were younger still. Since then he has been running a very successful Australian stud farm in order to support himself and his siblings but he's dead bored of it. Then one morning a man who calls himself the Earl of October and offers him a job to go to England as a corruptible stable lad to investigate a doping scandal.  "Can I make you understand how concerned my colle
Then one morning a man who calls himself the Earl of October and offers him a job to go to England as a corruptible stable lad to investigate a doping scandal.
Daniel needs some way to get moved to Humber's stable, a seedy, mean trainer, but must keep up appearances to do it.
Then, by chance, Lord October's promiscuis daughter lands Daniel in hot water, leaving him with more than a bad taste in his mouth but the perfect reason to move to Humber's.
Something is very bad happened to him and Daniel won't stop until he finds out what.
Dan is stuck in a rut, raising his younger orphaned brothers and sisters, worrying about tuition fees, dealing with too many responsibilities thrust on him too early.A British racing official, in Australia on business, meets Roke and seizes on him as the perfect answer to a problem: horses that have a history of running out of steam in the final furlongs of races have been suddenly winning.
Dick Francis, a former steeplechase jockey, knows horses, stable life and racing inside and out.
To set an effective trap he needs to seem disreputable...the kind of lad who might be tempted to fix a race.The mystery was really clever and had me guessing right up until the end and then I was horrified at how the race fixing was done.
An early Dick Francis with perhaps fewer twists in the storyline than some of his later books. Nevertheless, still a page-turner
When I was in middle school, I went on vacation with a friend's family.
The only thing that saved me was "For Kicks", which I found shoved under the front seat of the family car.
I haunted the local library for more Dick Francis books and even worked up the nerve to get permission to browse the adult stacks (tiny local library with specific ideas about what children should and should not read).
After high school I traveled to England partially because of Francis' books.
To this day "For Kicks" remains one of my favorite books.
As I think about all of his books (yes, this review covers all of his books, and yes I've read them all) I think about a moral ethical hero, steeped in intelligence and goodness embroiled in evil machinations within British horse racing society - either directly or indirectly.
The heroes aren't always horse jockies, they can be film producers, or involve heroes engaged in peripheral professions that somehow always touch the horse racing world.But more than that, Francis's heroes are rational human beings.
The hero's thoughts reveal a vulnerability that is touching, while his actions are always based on doing the right thing to achieve justice.
Well I read it as it was suggested by a friend due to Mr Dick Francis's superb 1st person writing skills in a hope to improve my own.
Not a story I would have normally read but ended up quite enjoying it.He has a simple approach that never really leaves you not knowing what is going on.
A nerve racking story that gets you routing for the main character early on until you almost lose hope that he's gonna get out alive.I'm certainly gonna see if this book ever had any sequels as I thoroughly enjoyed the characters and the writers ability to portray a range of different characters realistically.A damn good read and a surprisingly enjoyable story.
I always enjoy reading a good Dick Francis novel. They are pretty clean, the language isn't too bad, and not a lot of sex.... Sometimes I even reread the books, because it's like being with a friend you haven't seen in several years. I really enjoy the characters he uses, and also enjoy the series he writes about too. I'm not a gambler, but I really enjoy watching them live, as well as on screen. There is a certain excitement that I don't find in many other places.
I first read this at 13 (the first Francis book I'd ever read), and at that point, fell in love with Francis books. I went through his complete (at that time, at least) library in about a month. My education suffered, but my knowledge of things covered in these books has remained with me ever since!
Dick Francis in his prime was one of the best thriller writers on the market. His books were always engaging, his plots always fresh, his characters (almost) always new. This book, written fairly early in his career, isn’t as polished as some of his later works – it lacks the tension, twists, and surprises that marked later ones – but still showcases his talent.It was this quality that kept him on the best seller lists for almost 50 years.
The lone hero has to investigate and fight - with some background data, without training, tools, or support.
Daniel Roke, Australian who established stud farm to raise orphaned siblings, accepts undercover stable lad job from the Earl of October, investigating steeplechase doping in England.
In his long career, Francis imagined many frauds for his men (never women) to uncover and circumvent, here Pavlovian flight response to dog-whistle trained by fire, few hours for months later.
Present-day authors often write too long series, like on TV, same old people do same old sure thing.
• Australian pounds strike an odd note p12.
Daniel Roke accepts a job to go undercover to investigate a series of doping incidents among British race horses.
The ruse is to be hired as a stable hand, and a not-too-honest one at that, and infiltrate the ranks to learn how the horses are being doped.
Only a few weeks in, he witnesses a horse behaving as if it had been shot full of adrenaline.
Tests come back negative, just as they had in every other incident.
Gradually Daniel figures out what is really going on and is able to gether the evidence.
He is approached by a Lord from England who is looking for someone to come and be an inside man in the racing world and to investigate why horses are winning and looking "doped" but not testing as doped.
He decides to take the challenge and comes on as a stable lad which is far different from his every day job as boss at his stable.
I find this a very interesting study of characters and how we treat people differently based on how they look and what their jobs are.
Daniel Roke is an Australian horse breeder. Orphaned as a teenager, he supports his siblings and is bored to death. When is is offered a job to underground and investigate a racing scandal he takes a chance and discovers the adventure that he craves.
When I got the chance to listen to it, I thought maybe it would be rather like some other dull page-reads, and be more interesting.
Yawn.I also got very tired of Roke's fixation on his own dignity; apparently it was pretty darn fragile if even being looked at by a pretty girl in certain circumstances could make him feel humiliated!!What eliminated even a second star is the detailed account of cruelty to the actual horses as well as people, and the pathetic "skip forward in time" wrap.
The ending sounded like Francis was thinking of a series starring Roke as a James Bond with horses, but fortunately that didn't happen.The reader did his best with a rather bad book.
Daniel's immediate reaction is to refuse, but as the Earl points out, Daniel's siblings are off at school and he can hire someone to run the farm while he is away.
The Earl makes a financial offer that he believes Daniel could not refuse, but the Earl fails to realize that when Daniel accepts the job, he does so for reasons that have nothing to do with the money.This is very much a typical Dick Francis novel, and Daniel Roke is very much a typical Francis protagonist--a stubborn, clever and intelligent man who will subject himself to any number of indignities and who will put himself in very grave danger if that's what's necessary to complete the assignment.
The way Daniel Roke was drafted as an undercover agent was exceptionally convoluted, and it was hard to get into the actual mystery because it wasn't personal.
And this time, Roke is said to be very handsome, something Francis didn't do with his previous heroes.
This time through, I wondered if Francis was trying (unsuccessfully) to create a hero in Daniel Roke that would work as a continuing character.Again, if you're a purist and want to read all DF mysteries, For Kicks is readable.
A first-rate adventure, spy story set in the world of British horse racing.Daniel Roke, a successful young horse breeder from Australia, takes an opportunity to escape what has begun to feel like the inescapable burden of supporting three much-loved younger siblings (dependent on him since their parents died in an accident when he was eighteen), and travels to England where he goes undercover as a stable lad in an effort to expose what appears to be a doping ring which is threatening the reputation of the British racing industry.
It is not just the strong plot and desire to solve the mystery that keeps the pages turning, but your personal interest in the characters.
The ending is also particularly satisfying.If you like adventure, mystery, and a book that captures your interest from beginning to end, this book is definitely for you.
It is the change of scene and the challenge that pushes Danny Roke undercover, on the scent of a suspected racehorse dope scandal.Daniel Roke, had to raise orphaned siblings, accepts undercover stable lad job from the Earl of October, investigating steeplechase doping in England.
Horses conditioned to be afraid at the high pitch whistle so when blown the horse is frightened into a final spurt to the finish line.
Adams and Humber beaten in a final fight.
psychopathic Adams is killed in Daniel self defence.
At the end he is offered and accepts a job in espionage for a British organisation.
Andrew has to grow up quickly when his parents die suddenly, leaving him responsible for his younger siblings. He quickly uses all his talents to build a successful equine breeding farm in Australia, and seems to be a talented young man. However when he is offered the chance to take a dangerous assignment into the underworld of British racing, he leaps at the chance to escape his mundane responsible life. He explores the worst of the british racing stables and the hazards of being poor and foreign.
Narrated by Tony Britton -- doing a great Australian accent to match the Australian main character.This can be seen as a story about identity, if you want to read anything deep into it, or just an entertaining book about a spy in the world of racing if you don't.
I'm a big fan of character stories, so I like the way that Francis always focuses on the character and his life; unfortunately, in this case I didn't believe the choices that his character makes at the end of the book.
Fortunately, that didn't ruin the rest of the book for me.
An early novel from Dick Francis, this was a quick and easy read. Told in Fancis’s fairly flat, no-nonsense style, the first person narrative engages early and, despite a few plot holes, is fairly believable. The mid-1960s setting does date it quite a bit, but the central theme of horses being ‘doped’ to win and the main character having to go under cover as a stable lad, was well thought through. There was a point when I thought that the action flagged a bit, but don’t let that put you off. For an enjoyable thriller, chose Mr Francis.© Koplowitz 2012
Daniel Roke is an Australian who has an established stud farm. He is presented with a chance to work undercover as a stable boy in England to figure out how horses are being doped and undetected. He is not exactly happy with his current lot, so he does it. He must transform himself into a shady character and work at brutal stable whose owner isn't above beating the workers. This was a good one. No language.
FOR KICKS - ExFrancis, Dick - 3rd bookProprietor of a stud farm in Australia's Snowy Mountains or muck-raking stable boy in Yorkshire? Danny Roke decides on the latter. It is the change of scene and the challenge that pushes Danny undercover, on the scent of a suspected racehorse dope scandal.I loved this book. The conflict of the protagonists pride added an interesting element to the story.
HORSES ... amirite?This was my first foray into the Cult of Dick Francis (something I've learned: people have never read just one Dick Francis; they've read THEM ALL) and the charm is undeniable. There's just something so EASY about Francis's tale of undercover gruntwork in the seedy world of horse racing -- even if (like me) you have zero interest in horses.A pinch of Agatha Christie, a smattering of good ol' boy action-adventure, and you've got yourself a STORY.
I've been on a Dick Francis reading spree while on vacation and he never disappoints. In this one an Australian stud owner goes undercover as a disreputable stable lad in order to discover how a dozen horses have been doctored and run better than they're expected to. A truly psychopathic horse owner has discovered that he can make horses so afraid of fire that they will bolt. The comparison of different stables and the conditions under which stable lads work is quite palpable.
For Kicks was the first Dick Francis I read, and was overall a light & enjoyable read. I had never read a novel set in the world of horse racing, and Francis did a excellent job at introducing the reader to horse racing while also moving the plot along fast enough to keep it from getting unbearably slow. I liked how Francis used a first-person point of view, because it helped make the protagonist more interesting to me. A nice summer read.
Daniel Roke an Australian who has an established stud farm takes on an undercover job as a stable boy in England. His job is to figure out how horse are being doped, but beating all lab tests. Dan must transform himself into a shady character and work at brutal stable whose owner isn't above beating the workers. My favorite Dick Francis book so far
I've read most of the Francis books and recommend them for a reliably good read. They're all set against a background of horse racing, and while that wasn't particularly interesting to me at first I've come to enjoy it; it doesn't overpower the plot. I especially like his tight unsentimental style that moves the narrative at a steady pace.
I've started a Dick Francis kick. (Ha, I just see play on name of book...) Anyway, as I see them at library and/or acquire them, I'm reading them. This is one of the first ones he wrote and I really enjoyed it. The clarity of sight of his lead character, the development of the personalities of everyone, they all add a richness to a well-crafted mystery. (The butler did it.)(jk)
This was my third Dick Francis read and I didn't care for it as much as the first two I read. Something about the main character failed to draw me in; still, it will probably appeal to fans of his work. I seem to be the only one who didn't get it, many other reviews are favorable, so maybe it was just my mood.
