https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17314430-wait-for-you
It just seemed like she wanted more.""Wouldn't you?""Geez we really need to work on your confidence"Why I loved Avery:She is sweet and innocent .She isn't clueless , she is smart and knows how to hide her emotions.Cam's parents were amazing and funny people.“You listen here, woman.” “You can listen to my foot up your ass if you call me woman again.”Avery's parents were ....."You are lying.""You are ruinning our lives."All in all, this was a perfect read for me.This book combined both humor and real life problems.
I know I sound like a broken record and that fact makes me very sad, but I think it's important to keep pointing out the way women are categorised by their sexuality in so many books.
But then there's also that bit where she shouldn't place girls into categories based on how sexually active they like to be (whether she knows them or not).The other thing that really bugged me was when Jacob asked Avery "are you gay?" because she didn't want to have sex with Cam. It really bothered me that someone was made to feel like they had to be attracted to a certain type of guy because he was soooo pretty.
“I’m a lot to handle, but I can assure you, you’ll have fun handling me.”This book =>A perfect mix of swoony, wonderful, romantic, heartbreaking, angsty, dramatic and beautiful <3 Me, while reading the bookFrom page one, I've had the goofy smile on my face, and my grinning just got bigger and bigger till my cheeks hurt :D I loved it from star to finish, the romantic parts especially cause I'm a huge romance fan, and I have to admit, even the angsty parts were great, which is a shock cause I don't like them :DOne scene got me teary-eyed, and one scene had me gasping in shock and surprise (look at my status below LOL).But yeah, through most of the book I had that look from the gif here :D total dreamy smile <3Cam and Avery's first meetFirst scene in the book, she's late for class and bumps into him :DHe turns on his charm and bam!
Now, while I fell into insta-love with this book, I very much appreciated that the characters didn’t.
After they meet, its actually a little while before they officially become a couple so, as the reader, you get the time to connected with them, laugh over their banter, swoon over them flirting and you get to fall in love with them.
“You okay, sweetheart?”  C’mon… are you not in love already??
I was.She finds herself hooked up as astronomy star-gazing partners with this gorgeous swoon guy who bakes her cookies and calls her sweetheart.
Review posted at:  Swept Away By Romance Charming 4 1/2 stars!I very much enjoyed reading this book.
I adored and swooned over Cam (Oh, how I LOVED him), sympathized with and understood Avery, and felt they shined brilliantly together.
There was a freshness and youthfulness to this book that I loved.
It was refreshing to read a YA/NA plot where I felt the storytelling made sense and was neither manufactured nor contrived to elicit artificial rather than real emotions.
I felt everything these characters experienced and I loved it.
I had a great time reading Wait for You. This wonderful story overflowed with angst, laugher, and sexual tension.
1.5 starsDrinking game! Every time something cliche happens, take a shot. Warning: alcohol poisoning is a real risk and you should consult your doctor before reading.Cliche #1 Avery trips on her first day of school and is saved by a cute guy, aka, Cam. He's also kind of a douche. Very shoujo manga-ish.Cliche #2Avery and Cam are in the same class.Cliche #3Did I mention they're also partners for a school project?Cliche #4And are neighbors in their dorm. "I live here."I gaped at him. The whole half
Warning: alcohol poisoning is a real risk and you should consult your doctor before reading.Cliche #1 Avery trips on her first day of school and is saved by a cute guy, aka, Cam. He's also kind of a douche.
Cliche #5Avery is harassed by a guy at a party and Cam pins the guy up against a wall.
Even if she is covered in vomit, which we don't know for sure, he should've covered her with a blanket so she doesn't get cold and wait for her best friend to come back and change her.
(hide spoiler)]Cliche #9Cam keeps asking Avery out, even though she denies every time.
4.5~starsGoing commando and a spoonful of funfetti icing...First off, I’m extremely mad at you world for not making me read this book sooner.
It seems like lately my life has been nothing, but good books...decent books.
Wait for You was my life raft!
Important pieces.The pacing and development of the relationship was perfect!!
Where the hell are my panties??
Lynn wow me with all things Cam, she showed me the funny.
Cam was perfect, the dialogue was incredible, and the story gave me exactly what I needed, at this moment...right now.READ ON!More at http://www.toughcriticbookreviews.blo...
An extremely sexy, entertaining read!Every aspect of this story was engaging; from the lovable characters to the quirky dialogue and superb writing...I fell head-over-heels in literary love with this story!Avery Morgansten has a secret—one that has her fleeing to the other side of the country to escape. Her cold-hearted parents are a despicable source of authority and Avery enters her new college completely alone...that is, until her sexy 'run-in' with Cam.  People got out of the way for Cam. He
An extremely sexy, entertaining read!Every aspect of this story was engaging; from the lovable characters to the quirky dialogue and superb writing...I fell head-over-heels in literary love with this story!Avery Morgansten has a secret—one that has her fleeing to the other side of the country to escape.
Her cold-hearted parents are a despicable source of authority and Avery enters her new college completely alone...that is, until her sexy 'run-in' with Cam.
It's so important to care about the fate of these fictional beings, and some stories lack that personal feel that was so strongly present in Wait For You. I truly loved all the main characters, and although Avery held my sympathy and adoration, Cam stole my heart 
SO. FREAKING. GOOD. way better than I expected. Why is Jennifer L. Armentrout forever cursed with bad covers though?
5 Stars!Wait For You is one of books that I just couldn’t put down. Once I started, I was a goner. The main reason for that??? This guy-CAM  Sweet baby Jesus, Blue Eyes was...He was gorgeous in all the ways that made girls do stupid things. Wait For You was a story about a girl named AVERY  Whoever came up with the saying you can’t escape your past really knew what they were talking about. Avery has not had an easy life. She is nineteen years old, and living away from her family. Away from the p
Away from the pain of her past, the secrets and things she keeps to herself.
Cam and Avery get paired together in their astronomy class.
Cam and Avery become friends.
Eventually, she realized Cam means what he says.
She doesn’t realize that Cam still wants her, scars and all.
Avery realizes that her heart wants Cam. He is it for her.
(hide spoiler)]Cam- you are a new book boyfriend of mine for sure!!!I was happy to see Avery overcome her past at the end of the book.
“I want you, Cam.” “You have me,” he groaned.
I’m a cautious soul, I tried to look the other way but another blogger whose judgement I trust, (Nat, that’s you flower) dropped it into a book conversation we were having and I found my resistance crumbling and I slowly, tentatively reached out and Wait For You grabbed me by the hand and ran ahead with me stumbling along in its wake, slightly dazed.And dazed is the right word because Wait For You is just all kinds of awesome – full of goofy grin loveliness, I read this with a big cheesy smile on my face.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/WARNING: I HAAAAAAAAAAAAATED THIS BOOK WITH A FIERY PASSION. IF YOU LOVED IT, YOU PROBABLY WON’T LIKE THIS REVIEW. ALSO – THERE WILL BE SPOILERS.Still here? Alrighty then . . .  On motherf-ing page THREE we have our meet/cute where the girl literally runs into the boy and I discover this story will be one of my most hated of all tropes – a “superbadawful happened long long ago that new love interest will magically fix with all of his w
On motherf-ing page THREE we have our meet/cute where the girl literally runs into the boy and I discover this story will be one of my most hated of all tropes – a “superbadawful happened long long ago that new love interest will magically fix with all of his wonderfulness as well as his magic penis.” By page thirty girl and boy have discovered they have class together, have been paired up as partners in said class, realized they are also neighbors (how convenient), and that boy must be a werewolf because he’s always half naked .
Just ‘cause he’s good looking doesn’t mean he isn’t interested in murdering you while pretending you’re going to be working on Astronomy homework together.
'He told me people call him Cam, so I assumed that's what people called him.' and oily, self-gratifying banter orchestraed by Mr. Let-Me-Bake-For-You-Sweetheart out to seduce an iron virgin:'So unless you were raised in a convent, I imagined you've been in a lap a time or two, right?''I'm a lot to handle, but I can assure you, you'll have fun handling me.'To be frank, after schlepping myself through this highly praised, much-squealed-about example that has even been practically fought over by international licence buyers, I do not have much hope left for the genre and its ability to bring forth something I can enjoy and I don’t really believe anymore that - there is a New Adult novel without a heroine who suffered some kind of abuse before meeting creation's finest in form of the hero.
Girls clamor to be with Cam, but he sets his sights on the red-headed beauty, named Avery, and makes a constant pest out of himself until she agrees to go on a date with him.
Cam makes it completely obvious he hopes to change all that, but Avery knows he would be way too much for her to handle.
She hopes someday she can start dating and lead a normal life, because 'normal' was taken away from her on Halloween night five years ago by an older boy named Blaine.Cam, who doesn't have a shy bone in his body, is totally intrigued by Avery.
All I know is that I wish everyone could have their own personal Cam... *sigh*(This title is NA (new adult), not YA)
12/26/16: EDITI'm rating this 4 stars because I'm realizing I'm not enjoying the rest of the books and I'm giving them low ratings. Also, 3 stars means the book was okay, and this was more than okay. As of now, this is my favorite and I've given 1 and 2 stars to the next books, so this has to be 4 stars. Leaning back against Cam's chest, I tipped my head back and I reached up, cupping his cheek. I drew his mouth to mine and kissed him softly. “Thank you.”His lips curved up on one side. “For what
Although I had some problems with the beginning and Avery (main character) in the beginning, I enjoyed the rest, especially Cameron himself and the way the romance was actually delivered in this which is quite surprising.Wait for You is about 19-year-old college freshman Avery that has just moved away from her Texas to Virginia to run away from her past--the Halloween night that she wishes to never think about again.
But will Avery be able to run away from her past forever?I just love books in which I can gradually reveal what had happened to characters and shaped them the way they are now.
Armentrout just knows the best how to write truly swoonworthy heroes.
Together, Cam and Avery created another fictional couple I grew to love and felt strongly compassionate about.Wait For You is about finding something in your life which is wort of facing your problems instead of running away from them.
Can't wait to read contemporary by JLA!
I did an instagram livestream while I read ~30 pages of this book and I was just making fun of it out loud because for the first half of this book, there were literally several things PER PAGE that made me go UGGHGGHGHHGHGHGHHHHHere's a list of those things, as well as some other problematic content I noticed:-the only gay character in the book is constantly sexualizing other men and saying "girl" and "honey" at the beginning of every sentence.
If you are a fan of Jennifer and you like slow building friendships that blossoms in a relationships then this is exactly what you need!!I'm looking forward to read the second book!!As for Cam's book,I'm not sure yet if I will read it because I had said that I will not read again this type of books with the different POV but honestly I can't resist another book with Cam <333 :)))Please give me more Cam *sigh* :)))
3 - 3.5 COOKIE STARS! ★★★☆ “I'm beginning to think cookies is a code word for something else." Yup. Don't think I'll ever see a cookie in the same way again ;DAnywho. GAH I couldn't really settle with a rating for this one because the first half of the book felt like a solid 4, but the second half starting getting on my nerves with Avery. And there's Cam and his pet tortoise Raphael who I would give 5 stars to. The thing with NA reads is that it's very hard to please with all the recycled plots
Yup. Don't think I'll ever see a cookie in the same way again ;DAnywho.
I really enjoyed the first half of the book, the dialogues were highly entertaining and there's Cam with his cookies.
Cam alone would have warrant 5 stars from me; he was just super sweet, caring, understanding that he is literally too perfect to be real.
Overall it was still a nice sweet read but nothing phenomenal when it comes to the plot.
Cam definitely is the highlight of this book but a tiny part of me is mad that he could be so fixated on a girl like Avery.
I love cookies, and if that's a code word for something else, then I'll take that too.
Nor will I be able to eat them without thinking about CAM.
He was incredibly hot, right down to that sun tattoo, absolutely, but it was something more.
It was his sense of humor (love that), his playfulness, his thoughtfulness.
Loved during their intimate moments how he would always ask "May I?" So incredibly sweet.
(knees scraping the floor, palms up, eyes wide)…..More please.LOVED all the playful banter.
:)ADDENDUM: Cam going commando...HOLY SH***!!!!!!
Cam Hamilton just won the best boyfriend award. I'm telling you, it does not get much better than this absolute perfect in every possible way guy!! Avery moves from Texas to Virginia to go to college. She wanted to go far enough away that no one would know her and to hopefully start a new life. One terrible night at the age of 14 completely ruined her reputation and ruined her happy life. She has crappy parents that show her no support.  Avery literally runs into Cam on her way to class. This ac
Cam Hamilton just won the best boyfriend award.
Avery moves from Texas to Virginia to go to college.
She wanted to go far enough away that no one would know her and to hopefully start a new life.
One terrible night at the age of 14 completely ruined her reputation and ruined her happy life.
Avery literally runs into Cam on her way to class.
Cam ask her to go out with him several times a week and she always says NO.
Cam is sexy, nice and popular.
He is so good for Avery.
She is naturally endowed with great writing skills, so that although this entire story is quite a bit familiar (as it reminds me so much of a mix across Hopeless by Colleen Hoover, Speak by Laurie Halse Anderson and the Lovely Vicious series by Sara Wolf- all of which are great books, BTW), she still managed to make it such an exciting read that it took me only a day to finish it.
The only thing that bothered me just a little is the abundant use of the f-word, like REALLY abundant ^^But though admittedly the entire story did not knock me off my feet, the characters (Cam most especially) thankfully did.
The first story belongs to Avery and Cam and I know you will love them to death, because Avery’s innocence and Cam’s hotness are hard to forget and bond perfectly to create an amazing story.Avery wants to leave behind a traumatic past that hunted her every minute of her life.
Avery felt dirty and ashamed, this feelings harvested by her family and lack of love.Cameron was awesome and one of the best boyfriend from this genre.
He knew something was not right with her, and even if there were time when he wanted to find out the truth, he considered that showing Avery how he felt was more important than telling her.
I have a particular hate on for what the lovely Dino-Jess refers to as “Magic Dick Lit”.
And while there is a very real part of me that wants to sympathize with her, I just can’t.
And while I will concede that sweet boys who bake cookies better than my mom’s mom may exist they certainly do not come wrapped up in faces like Zac Efron’s with bodies like a football linebacker.
I am the last person to say what anyone should or shouldn’t do, it’s just not a vibe I have but man, I hate when serious issues are treated so cavalierly.
OK ladies, take a note please. :) You MUST read this awesome book because Cameron aka Mr.Perfect was really perfect. (^_^) You have to meet this funny and also sweet guy. Trust me, you won't be disappointed. :) Oh by the way, he loves to bake cookies. :) Yeah, I know he's not real. Dammit... :D
Jennifer no me decepcionó, creó, una vez más, a un hombre tan perfecto dentro de sus imperfecciones que es capaz de hacerte olvidar todo lo mal.Como todo hubieron momentos en los que quería meterme en el libro y estrangular a Avery, pero la entendía, así que eso se iba rápido.
Jacob y los demás fueron algo tan fresco y genial, quiero unos amigos así.
Lo que es más, tocó verdades y horrores que pasan casi que todos los días.
Avery's had to do it all by herself, the best she knows how which isn't always the best way.But Cam also has a secret...it just doesn't seem to affect him like Avery's secret does her.
Cam has some great will power and the patience of a saint!Of course, there has to be problems and it all comes down to Avery.
The problem is she has to be ready to tell Cam her secrets and Cam gets tired of her not trusting him.
I feel like man candy.”♥ "He had me at sweetheart."♥ “F*ck, Avery.
You think I don’t want you?” His voice came out low, almost a growl.
