https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8196732-sister
Actually, Beatrice has already solved the crime, and is telling the story to a policeman in a series of sessions - which is as annoying a narrative structure as I have ever encountered.
The structure only reinforces the repetitiveness of the narrative, and spends far, far too much time detailing Beatrice's coming and goings (She's in transition.
Sister is unusual in that it deals seriously with the depth of Beatrice's grief, a subject that is glossed over in many otherwise similar novels.
The thing is, it's glossed over for a reason - it's dead boring, and endlessly repetitive.
Beatrice communicates to her missing sister Tess through a letter or diary-like entries.
I've read a few crime fiction novels and really enjoyed them (e.g. the Millenium trilogy) but it can be a difficult genre to get right.
I would have assumed it was more of a family drama novel and I believe this novel bridges the gap between the two genres.Sister is an extremely easy and captivating read - I particularly enjoyed the ethical debates concerning medicine - and I'm not surprised that it was on the UK bestsellers list for so long.edit 2012: I wrote this initially to be a 'personal review' so it's not very good, but I'm sure my enthusiasm for the book still comes across ;)
“Maybe terror and dread, once experienced, embed themselves into you even when the cause has gone, leaving behind a sleeping horror, which is too easily awakened.” This was a pretty good mystery/thriller.
So when Beatrice gets a call from her mother to say that Tess has gone missing, she jumps on the first flight home to London.
*Mild spoilers* as Beatrice returns home, it comes to light that her sister was pregnant, shortly after, it becomes known that she gave birth but the baby died.
We learn that their younger brother died of Cystic Fibrosis as a child, which heavily impacted their family, and possibly Tess’ baby.
A very enjoyable debut from Rosamund Lupton, Sister follows the narrator, Beatrice, as she attempts to uncover the truth about the disappearance of her free-spirited sister Tess.
In fact, Tess's fate has already been decided, and the novel instead charts Bea's determined search for the truth.The plot is very cleverly constructed, drawing you right into the heart of the mystery while simultaneously withholding one vital fact, a fact which will only be revealed at the very end of the novel.
Which is more important - constantly being kept pulled into a story or coming away at the end of the book a satisfied reader???I do not recall where I read the review that led me to queue up for this book at the library (and the line was long, believe me), but I noticed that most of the Goodreads reviews are 4 and 5 stars so I figured I was in for a good read.
Bohjalian’s “The Double Bind", with its ending that irritated the heck out of me, came to mind when I finished this book - same sense of disappointment in the resolution of the story.
I wanted to be that engrossed, that lost in a book.I have to confess that, once I’d started, the style took me a little while to settle into.
As spring slowly starts to reveal itself in the book, so do the mysterious facts as we inch inexorably towards the dramatic conclusion.And it really is a dramatic conclusion – Rosamund Lupton is playing tricks on us and I truly didn’t even realise for a very long time but, when you know, it’s obvious but I’m almost tempted to reread with hindsight and just relish the clever ruses she deploys on us!
This isn’t a roller-coaster ride, rather than a thriller I’d call it psychological-suspense.
Beatrice the successful level-headed older sister arrives from New York to unravel the mystery surrounding Tess’s death.
Along with the mystery it was the maturing of Beatrice’s character that kept me turning the pages.
Cons: While the female characters are portrayed with empathy the men are such stereotypes.
Beatrice’s fiancé Todd (are men even still called Todd??) is weak & shallow; her only friend Kasia’s boyfriend an abuser in definite need of some anger management classes.
In its genre of psychological-suspense  a solid 4 stars.
There is a lot of emotion in this book - and Lupton does a wonderful job of conveying a realistic relationship between these two sisters.Unfortunately, the ending spoiled the entire book for me.
It is one of those manipulative endings with a surprise so shocking that it completely detracts from the entire build-up of the book.
Despite the manipulative end twist, other parts in the plot felt predictable, which slowed the action down quite a bit in sections.
Lupton introduces a lot of interesting information about cystic fibrosis here which adds a lot to the overall storyline, but her betrayal to the reader just soured the book past the redeeming point for me.
Not because it is light and fluffy, quite the opposite, but because it is the kind of book that keeps you up very late at night to finish and it's good to be on vacation and not need to get up for work or to get kids ready for school the next morning.
Its a very well done, darkly imagined story with a, for me, unexpected development at the end.
I just didn't expect it to be that.I don't have a sister, but I can imagine that if I did I'd be calling her today.
Beautifully written. Heartbreakingly sad. Potently emotional. Brilliantly executed. Terrifyingly realistic. Happy ending? You decide.Undeniably one of the best novels out there. It is absolutely amazing that this is Rosamund Lupton's first novel. I was so riveted to the pages that I lost three hours of time before coming up for air. I'm looking forward to reading more novels by this undeniably talented writer! Highly recommended!
We have the main character, Bee, who goes on about how well she knew Tess and that Tess couldn't possibly have changed in spite of the intense and painful recent events of her life.
Yet, at the same time she insists over and over and over again that her sister, Tess, could not have committed suicide because she wasn't the type to hide from her problems and because she valued life too much after losing their brother to a prolonged illness.
It would have made for a better mystery if Bee was at least willing to acknowledge that while she felt it was remote, it was possible that Tess may have committed suicide.
I put this book on my ‘mystery/thriller’ shelf based on its blurb, but there’s SO much more to it than that.
It’s an emotive read, looking at every kind of human trait, and I was moved to tears more than once.
It’s one of those books where the full story is only revealed right at the very end, and even then you have to think, digest, re-read sections and digest some more before you’re hit by its full impact and meaning...and still you think about it, soaking it all in.
It’s such a cleverly crafted book, dark and original.
Oh my gosh, what a fantastic book! I really loved this one and am looking forward to reading Rosamund's other two novels. I loved the suspense throughout, and the ending was a massive shock. The final page made me cry big fat tears. Finding out why the main character was writing a long letter to her sister was absolutely devastating. The things we do to try and cope... Can't say too much without giving the whole story away. This is definitely one that will stay with me for a long time to come.
The story is told from the perspective of Beatrice, and is, in a way, written as one big letter to her missing sister.
There was a fair bit of repetitiveness which really slowed the pace of the novel down and I felt that every little movement or life event was documented and probably didn't need to be.
I think Rosamund Lupton did convey Beatrice's grief and loss very well, and I did feel a level of empathy for her.
It was certainly unexpected and did change my perspective of the story, though I felt a bit let down as well.
This book was astonishing.
The blurb does not do the book justice and from what I read on the cover, it was certainly not what I expected.
From the start, the book was quite a page turner and it was filled with intrigue.
I thought that the way it was written - through a letter/conversation with her 'lawyer'/sister - was very different and effective.
The twists and turns are what make this book - especially the great twists at the end, where what you think is changed dramatically at the turn of each page.
Emotive and full of intrigue, this was a book that I really enjoyed.
When her sister, Tess, is found dead, Bea is certain that there is far more to the case than at first meets the eye.
Tess' family and the police close the case as suicide and try to move on with their lives, coming to terms with some revelations and self questioning, however, Bea takes it upon herself to discover the real truth.
The writing is good, and has some heart warming moments of sibling love and tenderness, and it keeps you interested throughout.If you are after a good story, to read over a long summer holiday, but not one to think too deeply about, then you will enjoy this book.
As the story flashes back and forward, small clues about what's going to happen in the future keep you gripped as the past and the present gradually come together.So, on to the problems:- The character of Beatrice.
This didn't ring true for me and I didn't see why Beatrice had to have a high-flying job or be living in New York for the story to work.- The narrative structure.
The whole book is written as if it's a letter from Beatrice to Tess, so it's both first person and second person AND it flips back and forth between past and present tense.
"Сестра" е много емоционално наситена книга, в която се откроява силната връзка между две сестри.
Ярко се откроява цяла съвкупност от чувства- безпокойството, че нещо лошо може да се е случило; тъгата от трагедията ; болката от безвъзвратното, от разкъсаната връзка; загубата на най-близкия човек;  липсата да видиш, да прегърнеш, да усетиш съществото, с което си споделял всичко; чувството за вина, че не си обърнал достатъчно внимание; носталгията по красивите и топли спомени." Сестра" е много внушителна книга, пропита с меланхолията на Биатрис и необходимостта ѝ да си излее душата, да изкара всичко неизказано пред малката ѝ сестричка Тес.
Bee's upwardly mobile lifestyle is thrown to the winds as she digs into the circumstances of her younger sister's disappearance.
The morphing of Bee from her safely staid life into the more bohemian leanings of her sister is interesting.
Every person attending a funeral has his/her own memories of the individual being laid to rest.
Never heard it put quite that way, and the idea is somehow comforting.Several reviewers have noted this does not come across as a thriller, but rather a psychological suspense novel.
I enjoyed the way the story was laid out and the ending was killer!
No angelic rendering of sisterly love here; instead, Lupton gives us a realistic portrait of two sisters, opposites in many ways, but linked by much more than DNA:"I know that I am bereaved but not diminished by your death.
If you don't have a sister, and even if you do but aren't close to her, Sister will give you the experience of one; certainly if something happened to me, I would want my own flesh and blood to be the one person I would say without a doubt - she would know me better than anyone else, she would have my back, and she would never stop until she got to the truth of what happened to me.
It is outside of my usual genre being fiction and non-Christian.The story is told by Beatrice whose sister Tess has gone missing whilst pregnant.
Beatrice is writing a letter to her sister and tells the story through her writings.
I hope this doesn't result in them spending hours attempting to work out what the words were.....There are a few sexual scenes but nothing graphic and limited violence.I would recommend this book, even more so if you want to try and find my slightly edited copy in a used book store local to Banbury in England....
Η πανέμορφη - και αρκετά συναισθηματικά φορτισμένη - πρόζα συναντά μια καταιγιστική πλοκή και δημιουργεί αυτό το μυθιστόρημα που δε μοιάζει παρά ελάχιστα στα μέχρι τώρα συνηθισμένα αστυνομικά. Μου άρεσε πολύ ο τρόπος γραφής της συγγραφέως καθώς και το γεγονός ότι φρόντισε να συμπεριλάβει πολλές λογοτεχνικές αναφορές στο κείμενό της. Οι ανατροπές στο τέλος διαδέχονται η μια την άλλη, αν και θα προτιμούσα ένα πιο "σίγουρο" κλείσιμο στο τέλος. Έμεινα πάντως πολύ ικανοποιημένη από την πρώτη μου λογοτεχνική επιλογή για το 2016.
I am giving this book a 2 1/2 to 3 stars. For me this rating means "it was ok, I liked it, but feel kind of wishy/washy about it. While reading it I really wanted to know the ending so that was good, but I felt it was a bit repetitive, which is not so good. I liked how the author described the relationship between the sisters. That's pretty true to life (I'm a big sister). I did have suspicions about the culprit and I was right (for once). I'll be willing to try another book by this author.
Yet Bee just knows that her free-spirited sister would not kill herself, and step by step she does her own form of investigation.The art of the book comes from how it draws you in from the fundamental perspective of the bonds between sisters.
In the process, she is contrasting her own approach to life with that of her sister.
While Bee has always sought safety and security in her life choices, Tess took the path of a bohemian artist, open to helping strangers in need and takes risks in her relationships.
The way that everything she turns up and brings to the police gets twisted to fit the theory of mental illness is well done.
I’d opted to live in New York, an Atlantic Ocean away, but for no discernible reason I feel a sense of belonging here." (Since I am from Boston now living in LA, this phrase really struck a chord with me.)The story is written in the voice of Bee, who is writing a letter to her sister, Tess.
Bee returns home to London from New York when her mother phones to tell her that her younger sister, Tess, has gone missing.
It's also a book that has lots to discuss, so be sure you have a friend or 2 that read it with you.
Самата история не е нещо невиждано и оригинално, но това, което ме грабна в романа, е начинът, по който е поднесена - като писмо към по-малката мъртва сестра.
Защото имам сестричка, точно 5 години по-малка от мен, и когато дори само за миг се запитах "Ами ако това бяхме ние?" (мисля, че който има сестра, не може да не си зададе този въпрос и да не се постави на мястото на Биатрис поне веднъж), веднага изтръпвах и осъзнавах, че емоциите са предадени максимално достоверно, че аз бих се чувствала точно по този начин.
), може би пък и защото имам сестра и съпреживях болката на героинята...
I know this book has had good reviews, was chosen for some awards, but for me it was a struggle to read on.
I am often baffled by reviews where books I have read did nothing for me and I would never recommend anyone waste their time reading this book, and yet reviewers rave about it and it gets awards.
Because I did not like this book, I would hesitate to read another by this author, but may give her another try.
Also, my mystery book club (all 12 of us) did not care for it either, so perahps it is not just me.
With Rosamund Lupton, I started wrongly by reading her second book firstly. Sister, her debut novel didn't disappoint me at all. Written as a letter to her deceased sister was an excellent choice. I was hooked to it from the beginning, especially with Bee's prose talking. it is also an emotional read, with great twists especially at the end. I totally recommend this book to those who like a good psychological thriller.4.5 stars
Maybe I should avoid psychological thrillers in the future, but heck I did enjoy Thérèse Raquin.ETA: I also hated the complicated narrative voice which the book uses.
Bess is writing a letter to her sister Tess, whom she believes has been murdered - relating how she figured out who her sister's murderer was.
Bess constantly uses the pronoun you.
This is, until you get the hang of it, very confusing.
I was so confused in the beginning that all I was thinking about were who the pronouns used were reference to.
I was also confused by the usage of italics in some paragraphs.
'Sister' is perhaps the best debut thriller I have ever read.It is written in the form of a letter from Beatrice.
In this letter, Bee (as Tess always called her) tells her sister Tess everything about the things that happened after Tess disappeared without any known reason.
Throughout the whole book, you can read the text messages and e-mails sent between the two sisters.Bee's voice is very distinctive.
From the start of Tess' disappearance, she believes there has been a crime, because she KNOWS Tess wouldn't have committed suicide, as everyone else believes.
My recommendation to all...if you happen to come across this amazing book, pick it up and enjoy.
