https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6421588-hourglass
6/16:Okay, I'm not even half way through this book, but I had to write a little something about how I felt so far.
A little.I still hate Bianca and Lucas with a burning passion.
Almost all the hardships in this book are caused by the fact that Bianca cannot stand to leave her beloved Lucas.
Almost half the book is Bianca talking about how madly in love she is with him and how perfect he is.
Bianca says "Lucas" more in this book than Rose says "Jack" in Titanic.
And seriously Claudia Gray (if that is your real name...) stop comparing Bianca and Lucas to Romeo and Juliet.
*4.5 stars*Hmm. I am NOT pleased. But I thoroughly enjoyed the ride. And I cried. Also, I'm apparently reading too quickly to keep up with reviews. I can't even. UGH.RTC. Probably. That dumb bitch villain pissed me off good. So I guess that means the author pissed me off? Yeah. That's probably more like it.
But most of said stuff was pretty predictable, and I ended up playing a waiting game through most of the book, wondering when the characters were going to figure out things that were right under their noses.Most of the middle of the book comprises of Bianca & Lucas drifting around, doing basically nothing.
Despite my reservations about Evernight, I do quite like Balthazar - he seems more complex than others, and his sister issues are quite bizarre but interesting at the same time.I'm hoping Claudia Gray won't do a number on him and turn him into a vapid pretty boy who is oblivious to the fact that his sister is totally insane, something that I suspect wouldn't be too hard to do, but I'll read it anyways.Probably the most shocking thing in Hourglass was that B & L finally 'do it'.
I'm going to start off by saying that Hourglass is by far the best book in the series so far.
While I definitely enjoyed Evernight and Stargazer, Hourglass surpassed the first two books in the series by leaps and bounds.
The emotions were real, and they helped me to connect to the characters and identify with their situation, which is important in a series that focuses on the supernatural.Finally, I was impressed with where Gray took the series.
I was expecting this to happen in Hourglass, but I was happily proven wrong.I don't know what I'm going to do waiting for the fourth book.
The twists, turns, struggles and climactic ending kept me riveted the entire time!
Wow… Just wow!In this book Bianca and Lucas are together and trying to find an escape from the Black Cross Vampire Hunters before they figure out what Bianca truly is or isn’t for that matter.
This is truly the epic of all love triangles, even though we know who Bianca chooses, as a reader my heart went out to both.That last part of the book astonished me!
Warning, DO NOT read ahead, stay away from the last chapter!
Hourglass is truly a book worth reading.
A MUST.READ.NOW book.
Gray throws in so many surprises that I am really chomping at the bit to get the next one!
The story takes off where Stargazer left us with Bianca leaving Evernight with Lucas and his Black Cross family.
Their biggest fear, they think, is that Bianca will be discovered for what she truly is, a vampire, but when you get to the final few chapters you will find out that they haven't even begun to realize what could possibly go wrong.
no, no, no.... You did not just end like that!!?!?!?!?!?I thoroughly enjoyed this book, up until the last few pages....Spoiler Alert*****I am not into the whole ghost thing, I knew this was coming but I just kept hoping that the book would go in a whole new direction. I am curious how the next book will be with Lucas as a Vampire. Is he going to be angry that he was turned and how is the whole Lucas and Bianca situation going to go??? Now, all I can do is wait for Afterlife to be released!!!! AHHHHHHHH!!!
OMG!!!!!! really?!?!?! this book was absolutly AMAZING!!!! i cant not believe that bianca is a wraith and lucas is DEAD!!! see this would be fine if bianca wasnt dead!! im completely impressed!! wat will clauia gray do next?? if or how is she going to bring bianca back to life??? is lucas going to be crazy blood driven vamp or be like bianca parents or belthazar??? i seriously cant wait to read afterlife!!! GREAT BOOK!!! it had me holding my breathe the entire time!!
March 2011 is too far away!SummaryThe story starts with Bianca, Lucas, and Raquel with the Black Cross.
FYI - Dana and Raquel are a couple.Bianca and Lucas go to Chinatown to get money from Balthazar for their escape then head to Philadelphia.
The story ends with Lucas in Bianca's lap, and Balthazar, Vic and Ranulf surrounding them.
During the raid by the vampires, he is killed by Ms. Bethany.Dana - Lucas' surrogate sister and best friend.
Still don't know her plans.Balthazar - still clearly cares for Bianca and tries to save her from Black Cross when he gets captured.
I thought the first book was ok and wasnt really interested in continuing the series however I was bored and read Stargazer which interestingly enough spiked my interest.
Butttttttttt with Hourglass I am afraid to say, Claudia took 3 steps backIn all honesty I find lucas's character to be very boring and uninteresting so I found it hard for me to root for them to be together because I really don't understand what Bianca saw in him.
However in Hourglass I could not stand Bianca either she became to me one those characters that are too stupid to live.
I am completely blown away!I don't want to say to much, because I know me, and if I start one of my long reviews, I'll slip and start spoiling and I can't do that cause y'all need.to.read.this.as.soon.as.possible!
Theories are already bouncing in my head and I know I'll go mad before the last book hits the shelf next year!I cried:( But that's all I'm going to say about that:( I basically am in total awe of this masterpiece!
I love and adore this series and I think it's save to say that I CAN'T wait for the last and final book to be in my hands!This is going to be a very, long, year!
This series gets better with each book; something of which not many series can boast. Too often a series stumbles by on the strength of the original book, but nothing could be further from that with this series. This book has more action, more shocking events, more drama, more joy, more sadness, than the previous books.I don't want to get into anything that happens because you'll really want to experience it all for yourself. I can't imagine how this series is going to be wrapped up, but I'm looking forward to it.Great read.
I can't wait for this book to come out!! Bianca and Lucas?!
Ich merke mal wieder das Internats Geschichten definitiv nichts für mich sind.
Dieser Teil war anfangs sehr unterhaltsam und hatte auch nicht mehr viel mit dem Internat zutun aber was anfangs eine Vampirgeschichte zu sein schien, bleibt bald davon nix mehr über.
Und ich weiß noch nicht, ob ich sowas mag oder was ich davon halten soll.
Es ist in meinen Augen keine starke Reihe aber man merkt wie die Autorin dazu lernt und manchmal die Tatsachen verdrehen kann, woran ich viel Spaß hab.
Naja bleibt mir noch ein Buch über mal schauen, wie alles ausgehen wird.💪
This book was very interesting to see the two different worlds collide in the most epic love story between a vampire and human which the roles have switched and how that going to work with everything else and how will old enemy take place in their new lives.
The plot was a little slow moving, there wasn't that tension or anticipation between Bianca and Lucas..
I think that helped the first two novels move along a little more quickly.
I wanted to read the book because I do enjoy the series, but had that last quarter not happened...
Which isn't what her character is supposed to be at all.
I mean what kind of teenager uses the word lover?
Maybe it's just me, but her character just isn't consistent.
BUT the real character behind my love for this series is Balthazar.
Hourglass was a little steamier then the previous two novels as well!
Tohle je již třetí díl ze série Evernight a ihned po Vampýrské akademii se tahle sága stala moji nejoblíbenější.
Jsou to jedny z nejlepších knih, jaké mohu číst, ale přesto jsem se ještě ani jednomu dílu neodhodlala dát plný počet hvězdiček.
A myslím, že mi to bude ještě dlouhou dobu trvat, protože to prostě není tak, jak jsem si představovala a vůbec netuším, jakým směrem by se měl odvíjet poslední díl, který si přečtu ihned, jakmile na mě přijde v knihovně s rezervačkou řada.
Tento díl byl úsměvný, smutný, ano - zase jsem si poplakala, dokonce jsem musela knihu zavřít, protože jsem nedokázala snést, co se na příštích řádcích dozvím.
Первые две книги я прочитала....ой боже не сорвать бы - в 2011 году, когда книги только перевели и выпустили в России. И потом я стала ждать выхода третьей книги и забыла про серию , ее как-то оттеснили такие серии как АВ и Дом Ночи, которые выходили быстрее. И вот только сейчас руки дошли дочитать. Соскучилась я по истории, по героям, просто проглотила ее. Мне нравится что в книги есть всего по немного - тайны, проблемы с родными , с друзьями, вопросы нравственности, любовь, вампиры, призраки...Очень в моем вкусе !
I loved the first one (Evernight) ,so I'm excited about this one!

Star crossed lovers stuck in Paranormal Tug-a-War **Third book in the series so its spoilers galore for the first two books.**Bianca and Lucas are the star crossed lovers of the Evernight series.
Bianca and her Evernight school room mate, Raquel have joined forces with the Black Cross.
People Bianca and Lucas may have trusted in the beginning will fail them at some point in the most surprising ways.
Hope drives their love and makes it burn stronger.I was frustrated at points of the book, mainly because you’re so wrapped up in Lucas and Bianca’s raw emotions.
The plot was a little slow moving, there wasn't that tension or anticipation between Bianca and Lucas..
I wanted to read the book because I do enjoy the series, but had that last quarter not happened...
Which isn't what her character is supposed to be at all.
I mean what kind of teenager uses the word lover?
Maybe it's just me, but her character just isn't consistent.
BUT the real character behind my love for this series is Balthazar.
I will admit that Lucas did start to grow on me a little bit.
Some of my reasoning comes from not only this book, but some other unfortunate reads lately.
There is the supposed "true-love" and the other is the second-hand hopeless case, waiting in the wings.
The "true-love" always sits by and watches as the girl and the wing-man act all love-dovey.
Man, if that was me, I would say "see ya." I wouldn't stand by and watch the person I love hanging all over some one else or allow them to exchange romantic gestures.
Hellooo!I read a lot of the same type books because I love them so much.
I had a review all written out and then my Male-counter-part turned off the computer when I left it like a ninny, so now it's gone.In short though, this book had an exceptionally unhealthy idea of relationships, including, but not limited to:+ Terrifying "he's going to yell at me when we get home" thoughts about her super-stud, personality void, hot-headed boyfriend, which were not in any way shown to be a bad thing.+ Endorsed "Die for each other" mentality after only a few weeks of dating.+ Condescending acceptance of a LBGT friend like it was some sort of achievement not to freak out at their confession.+ And "Please forgive them for trying to murder you, they'll regret it later" requests, which she considers ok.Our leading lady was the most infuriatingly useless female lead I have ever read.Next to Bella Swan.
I was caught up in the whirlwind of Lucas and Balthazar.This book picked up right where the second one finished.
Lucas sacrifices so much for her, more so than I think he could imagine.The book was very emotional, had me in tears a lot.
Had me gasping until I turned the page, and made me fall in love all of over again.The part that I hated, and hate is really too strong of a word.
I was really surprised with the way she ended the book.
it can not finish, I turned the pages and they were blank.
I have a lot of strong emotions towards the characters.
Abbiamo lasciato nello scorso libro i due piccioncini che scappavano dall’incendio della scuola, anzi Bianca si unisce ai cacciatori della Croce Nera, i quali la ritengono ancora un’umana.
qui non c’è collaborazione ma solo senso di potere e legami.Un personaggio che mi dispiace è Balthazar, per me lui è la vittima innoncente di tutto e quando scopre l’inevitabile fa di tutto per placare ogni sentimentoSe ci fosse stato un colpo di scena sarebbe stato meglio, ma invece trovavo ogni cosa scontata...
sia dalla fuga all’Evernight che dalla Croce Nera, oltre alle mezze verità che ancora non sono state rivelate fino a quando non sono stati dovuti essere rivelati...
their utter hatred, fear and stubborn ignorance actually make me think about race issues though i do not think this was the author's aim.when it comes down to it, despite the vampires and wraiths and black cross, this is a love story and quite a good one at that.
lucas and bianca are deliciously in love and thus will do anything for each other.
there is so much information that we lack, since bianca herself doesn't know how things work exactly and i'm sure all questions will be answered in 'afterlife' but now i have to wait a year until it comes out...
I couldn’t put it down, just like the first two, but there were lots of things to irritate me.
I, again, found the lack of knowledge about Lucas to be irritating—-I would like more personal experiences/information about him shared with Bianca or something to help me understand and know him better.
I still feel more of a connection to Balthazar than to Lucas, and the lack of lots of Balthazar in this book was irritating!
So, I’m looking forward to the next installment.One thing (SPOILER): If Bianca knows how abhorrent Lucas would find his final predicament, why would she allow him to “wake up” in the morning?!
Like...~Bianca and Lucas are no longer virgins~Bianca is a wraith~Lucas is a vampire~Vic is back!~Balthazar(or however you spell his name) is back too!
I couldn't sit still while reading this because it was so intense!
SERIOUSLY INTENSE!!!...
YOu have to read this right way!
I felt so bad for Lucas in the end....
He was willing to die for her and I like, cried....
And he was so lonely and I felt so bad for him and I was like, "I'm so sorry Lucas.
I'm crying....!" I can't really explain what I felt during those couple of pages...
BLEHHY!Go read the book now!!!!!!!
This really kept me turning the pages because i just had to see what would happen next, and the ending.
Oh, the ending.
I really loved this book and i can't wait to see how Gray wraps it all up.
I also love the characters, Bianca in particular.
Her character is very strong and she's not a wimp or a wuss and while she does love Lucas very deeply and abidingly, it's not obsessive and her world doesn't revolve around him.
And Lucas is great too, he loves Bianca just as much as she loves him, but's he not obsessive either.
