https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4035.The_Burden_of_Proof
In Turow's "Burden of Proof," we find ourselves three years following the events of "Presumed Innocent" as a spectator in the life of Sandy Stern, the attorney who famously defended Rusty Sabich in the murder trial from the prior story.This time, there is no murder, but there is a death; the suicide of Sandy's wife, Clara, mated to a seemingly inexplicable withdrawal from her personal trust fund just days before her death.
This is another great and fantastic legal thriller.
This one deals with Sandy Stern.
This one deals with tons of surprises and some trips down to Memory Lane with flashback, right after his wife commits suicide.
But from there, he deals with an emotional load of stuff with his children and his client/brother-in-law in an embittered battle.
But with every twist and turns, he discovers some family secrets behind the scenes.
We really see the emotions he goes through from grieving to outraged through the end.
We do see a different side of him than before.
Ugh, the last 1/4 of the book was ok/ interesting but I BARELY made it to that point....the first 3/4 of the book were painfully long and drawn out.
A very good novel, and probably my favourite of all of Scott Turow's books. A tale of marriage, family and suicide not to mention a fairly decent thriller. Sandy Stern (first seen in presumed innocent) comes home to find his wife has committed suicide -- and we follow his life in the months that follow as he tries to keep his life together and understand why his wife would do something like that. For a longer review, please go here:http://www.epinions.com/content_29816...
I have, of course, heard about Grand Juries many times but, with the help of Scott Turow, I have painlessly expanded my knowledge of the process.I like that this book is more in depth than some mystery/crime books that can at times be skimming the surface with most characters.
There is plenty of material and missing a bit does no lasting damage to the reading.Stern is not young.
Maybe those people do not read books that are 22 years old!This is an easy four star book for me.
This follow-up to Turow's popular Presumed Innocent was a disappointment for me. I thought INNOCENT was a riveting read, and I even viewed the movie, which I thought was quite good before starting this book. I could find no connection to the previous book other than location. The legal case seemed secondary to Sandy Stern's sexual life following his wife's suicide. Toward the end of the book, I began to get more involved in it. I have the next in the series available, but not sure I will try it.
Honestly, I believe my expectations were way high after the first book of this series. Therefore, I was easily let down. I really was a little impatient with the main character and his discovery of a libido. I never criticize a narration but his Spanish accent reminded me of an imitation of Bella Lagosi. I usually finish all of the books which I purchase, however, life is too short to not enjoy a read. I hope I will be more impressed with Mr. Turrow's next one.
I'm sure I read this before, but many years ago.
I had to rate it 5 stars when compared to what I've been giving 4 stars recently.Complex and authentic novel centering around Sandy, the Argentinian attorney in Kindle County (Chicago) whose wife takes her life (right at the start of the book.
and more and more family members become embroiled with it all.To his surprise, he has also become sexually involved with a divorced neighbor woman and fallen in unrequited lust with a married, pregnant legal opponent which adds to his general struggle to cope with his wife's death.A long, very well-crafted novel.
I might even go back and read the first, although once you know the "trick" in that one......
An excellent read and a book that I enjoyed more for the psychological aspect than the legal thriller (that was intrinsic to the psychological part of the book).
The story is two fold: a distibuished criminal attorney returns form a business trip and finds his wife of 30 years dead by suicide and at the same time he is embroiled in the defense of his brother-in-law that is targeted by the government for stock exhange fraud.
The legal thriller is very interesting too but the human side was for me was the best!
A middling legal story. Combines the main character's domestic problems with the legal tangle he is trying to work out for his main client, his brother-in-law -- so the legal and domestic are intertwined. I wasn't really enamored with any of the characters or their issues. I didn't buy who did what, and why. If you don't buy the characters' motivations, it's difficult to enjoy the plot. I'm sure others feel differently about it, but there you go...
Scott Turow tiene un estilo completamente distinto al de John Grisham, a pesar de que escriben sobre lo mismo. Grisham es más aventurero. Turow es totalmente denso: nos bombardea con miles de datos sobre leyes fiscales, inversiones en bolsa y códigos financieros. La trama está sólidamente tejida y los personajes bien construidos. Pero aún así la cantidad de información es demasiada para una novela que, se supone, debe mantener la atención del lector en todo momento. No me ha entusiasmado.
I don't often rate a book a five, nor will I in this book, but close. Very well written story presented with many side stories. A work of fiction that the reader feels he has "solved" the crime, but finds that he is wrong, not once but several times.
Scott Turow had written an award-winning novel Presumed Innocent in 1987.
I was drawn to reading his other books because of Presumed Innocent where the plot, the twists and turns, and the cut and thrust in a court-room setting were so clearly written for a non-lawyer like me to follow the story-line.
The Burden of Proof revolves around the family of Sandy Stern, the defence lawyer who appeared in the earlier book - Presumed Innocent.
Sandy’s family of three grown-up children and a son-in-law had roles to play in this story.The writer, Scott Turow, had me believe the obvious as he wrote the pages.
I was hooked by it's predecessor (Presumed Innocent) but here I think Scott Turrow simply got carried away and tried to write an epic in the manner of Gone With The Wind or Buddenbrooks, nothing wrong with that, but if you're attempting to write a thriller then your book needs to thrill.
Lots and lots of introspective passages with well-constructed sentences do not add to the book.
3) Lengthy characters with well-constructed sentences do not add to the quality of a thriller.
All in all, this is a book where the author simply let himself go.
This book took me forever to read and after all was said and done, nothing really happened.
It's supposed to be a legal thriller but there's very little to do with the law in it and it's definitely not very thrilling.
It's the story of Sandy Stern, after learning his wife has committed suicide, tries to deal with his new life and a legal issue his brother in law is having.
The majority of the book is spent with Sandy throwing himself at lots of different women, now that he's "free" I guess, and working on his relationships with his kids.
The best two words that sum up this book: nothing happens.
A wonderful book that I have read through twice now. Even though it is not as popular as Presumed Innocent, I still love many things about this book. I love the legal part of the story but I highly enjoy the journey we go on uncovering the lies within Sandy Stern's marriage and family as well as seeing how he copes with life as a widower. Very well done.
Turow's writing is still engaging, but I finally had to give up a little over a third of the way in because dear God can I not stand his characters. It's like Bonfire of the Vanities all the time up in here. Most egregious as the possible-suicide-because-of-HSV2-diagnosis subplot (I don't even know if that WAS the reason for the suicide ... I didn't get far enough for that to resolve). Oy.
How this became a best seller I'm not sure. This is the tale of a male attorney whose wife commits suicide. This is a slow-moving and unfortunate novel that isn't bettered by the widow sleeping with everything in sight. Very disappointing read. Don't read this book expecting the quality of Turow's first novel or you will definitely be disappointed.
One can never fault Turow's use of the plot twist, the surprise ending, or the surprise ending a character whose death continues to create consequences for the other characters! Worth reading for that alone, yet his characters, especially his protagonist, led me into the deep corridors of his soul.
I only read the first 110 pages and quickly lost interest. Not enough action...too much rumination on erections.
Turow has an amazing talent for getting the reader inside a character's mind. This one does it best of all.
For a lot of pages, lawyer Sandy Stern stumbles hither to yon dealing with his brother-in-law's financial hi jinx and his own personal and family issues.
What makes a book? The story or the characters? All I know with this one is that Sandy Stern was a disgusting man.
✭✭✭
Guess what…it’s ALL connected.This is a weird book because a lot of it tries to stay pretty tight to the idea of professional ethics and legalese about the how the different cases involved are tied together and how as a lawyer he has to proceed.Then, there’s a LOT of description of middle-aged people doing it and doing it well.
Like really weird Scott Turow is about 60ish now, and so he would have been in his early 30s when he wrote this book, but he is absolutely fascinated with middle-age sex.
Many novels in the thriller genre, legal or otherwise, are very plot driven, which shouldn't be all that surprising.
Part of the "thrill" is jumping from event A to event B to event R that ties back to A.
"Burden of Proof", on the other hand, is very much a character-driven story, dealing with defense attorney Sandy Stern as he tries to unravel the consequences of his wife's suicide.
There is a legal conspiracy at play, and it ties nicely into the plot, but this is about a man dealing with the primary regrets of middle-age: "Did I emphasize my career over my family?", and "If I could do it again, how would I change it?"A nice change, although I would have preferred a bit more courtroom drama.
Might be the medium that this book was delivered to me (I listened to the very long audiobook), but it never grabbed me or intrigued me.
Might be that legal thrillers just aren't for me.
I should have stopped reading, another lesson in the sunk cost fallacy.
The 90 to 95% part of this book was fine.
The rest was forgettable - dull (I generally keep reading a book I find dull that also has a good rating on Goodreads, but this one never got exciting), ridiculous (this chubby guy is sleeping with all of these women?
The story line is a five star hands down.
I loved the deceit and strategies behind selling short and the cover up of the family members and the mystery behind The Who done it.
Excellently written and applaud the masterful writing here.
Now the bad part.
why do you have a middle age, overweight man, who just lost his wife, banging all these women all of a sudden.
And why did the author need to write in three different love triangles.
Ya I know a triangle has three sides but this was like nine sided.
Totally disrupted the excellent story.
I did not enjoy this book as much as I did the first book in the Kindle County Series. The story itself was captivating enough, but it felt way too wordy.What I did enjoy about this book was an incredible portrayal of the complexity of emotions surrounding death, and particularly suicide. It did a great job of showing how grief in this type of situation is not a simple matter and that it has ways of weaving itself into the fabric of life.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
