https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/225542.Leo_the_Late_Bloomer
Memories of childhood reads bubbling up in my mind. This one was a favorite. I must have checked it out at the library a bazillion times. I remember the kind librarian softly asking me: "Aaron, are you a late bloomer?"I didn't know what to say back to her. But the book made me feel whole.
I have mixed feelings. I HATED the first page: "Leo couldn't do anything right", what's up with that for a start?!But I liked the ending SO much, I could have shed a tear or two.
This book is about Leo a young lion who hasn't bloomed yet.
He can read, write and speak just like all the other animals.
This is a great book to teach kids that it's ok to be who you are and do things in you're own time and you will bloom just like Leo. It also seems like a pretty good book for parents so they learn not to put so much pressure on their kids to always rush to be at the same level as everyone else and if kids go at their own pace they will eventually get there.
This is kind of a weird book.
Leo, a tiger, can't do what the others can do: write, read, eat neatly, talk.
His dad is a little worried, but is convinced Leo is okay and he watches some tv.
Leo learns to write, read, eat neatly, and talk!
My problem with this book is that it really targets a very specific audience (kids who are slightly behind their peers) and what's more, I don't think it is written for kids, but rather as reassurance for their parents.
I worry a bit that this book can be a real downer to read if one has a severely delayed child.
1. Leo the Late Bloomer2. This book teaches about patience3. I can use this book with children who are having a hard time learning how to do different things. It teaches them that if they keep trying and not quit they will get it! It also teaches that everyone learns at a different pace.
Leo cannot write, draw, read or talk while all the rest of the animals in his class can.
Leo’s mother however believes that he is just a “late bloomer.” During the story, Leo tries to draw, write, read and talk just like his friends but is not as successful as they are.
Leo is able to draw, talk, read and even writer his own name just like the rest of his class.
One teaching idea would be to have the students talk about how Leo felt throughout the entire story.
This was my first time ever reading this book.
I would have said I would read this to my class at the beggining of the year but I think the end of the year would be better.
My extension activity will explain why.Extension Activity: I will read this to my class at the very end of the year.
We will then think back to something that we could not yet do at the beggining of the school year but we can do now.
I think this will also make the children feel good about all of their accomplishments.
One of my all time favorite books! I especially love using at the end of first grade as we look at all the things we can now do.
This book is a beautiful classic to remind us all to relax, it assures children and parents that people progress at different levels, but everybody blooms. This book gives comfort and encourage children in what they are good at, and be more confident.
I just read this for the first time at age 22 and I love it!
All of my friends have read through the entire Bible multiple times, but I haven't even made it through once.
(My disability makes it hard to find a Bible I can actually use-either the print is too small or I can't hold it properly.)Leo has reassured me that it doesn't matter how long it takes me or how fast my friends go, I'll make it to Revelation 22 at my own pace.If you are my brother or sister in Christ and are reading this review, feel free to encourage me.
Share your story, where you are currently reading, and how many times you "made it".
First sentence: Leo couldn't do anything right.
He couldn't read.
He couldn't write.
He couldn't draw.
Premise/plot: Much of Leo the Late Bloomer covers conversations between a mother and father as they discuss their late bloomer, Leo. The father worries that Leo will never, ever bloom.
His mother is confident that Leo will bloom.
Seasons come and go but Leo hasn't bloomed.
And Leo's "first word" isn't a first word, but a sentence: "I made it!"My thoughts: I did not grow up with this one.
In fact, I didn't meet Leo until I was in college.
I liked the optimism of the mother tiger.
One day finally came, and Leo surprised everyone.The Featured Character in this bookLeo the TigerI liked or didn't like this book … provide reason pro/conI liked this book.
It teaches that not everyone develops at the same time, and with time and encouragement things will happen.State your reasons (why or why not) you would recommend this book for childrenI would recommend this book because it can help out with all kinds of disabilities, and teach the reader whether adult or child that with time and effort we will all reach our intended potential.
Picture Book, 1971Leo is a young lion that is having trouble drawing, writing, and reading.
Leo's dad wants to do all that he can to help, but he is told he will just have to let Leo be and everything will work out.
His parents are so proud of him and Leo is so happy that he made it.I really enjoyed this short book.
It is great to read to young class that might be having some trouble improving.
The version I read had pictures below the text, so ideally this would be switched in a book for younger children.Why is Leo having trouble with his work?
In “Leo the Late Bloomer” Leo the tiger is unable to do many of the things the other animals can do, such as read and write.
As the title suggest Leo is a late bloomer and in the end is able to do all the things that the other animas could do, including speaking, as well as reading and writing.
Although the lesson of the story may seem obvious that children shouldn’t worry about learning slower than others because they are late bloomers, it also seems to send a message to their parents.
Robert Kraus’ picture book Leo the Late Bloomer, is about Leo a young lion who is falling behind because he yet does not understand how to read, write and draw.
The book first shows how Leo struggles to stay with the class and watches others around him excel in all that he cannot do.
Leos father who is worried that his son may not be a late bloomer but something else follows and watches Leo for signs of blooming.
The illustrations are great and fun to look at.
Illustrations by Jose Aruego which by the way are amazing and fun to look at easily captures the moment.
Leo the Late Bloomer (1994), by Robert Kraus with illustrations by Jose Aruego, is a memorable tale of a young learner’s delayed development, the frustration and disappointment that are often accompaniment, and the important role that caregivers can play by supporting and accepting each learner’s unique progression.
The story is set in a fantastical, yet improbable jungle, with lots of vines, flowers, and an occasional snow.
The story serves as a comforting reminder of the pace of every child’s distinct development.
It is also a commentary on the power of unqualified acceptance and support of each child as he comes into his own.
I didn't think this book was that great.
It's about a tiger named Leo who is a late bloomer and can't do anything right.
The dad is asking his mom what is wrong with him and she says that some kids are just late bloomers and to give him time.
Then it said Leo spoke for the first time and his words were, "I did it!" I just thought it was kind of cheesy for a children's book and I didn't really see it as a story children would want to read over and over again.
A beautiful story about a tiger who took a little more time to learn how to do things that most of the others around him. **Talking points - Leo's mom has faith in him. Who has had faith in you and encouraged you? In the end does it matter how long it takes you to catch onto things? Why or why not?
A must read. It is a reminder for ourselves as teaching professionals and parents, our children will develop at different stages and times. We must wait for each individuals personal awakening. Children will be encouraged and enjoy this book as well as adults.
3* art4* story"Leo couldn't do anything right."A perfect beginning to an encouraging book - both for Squirt AND for me.
The fond was very small and basic, nothing stood out about it or made the book more appealing because of it.
The book was about a baby tiger that has not "bloomed" yet and is very upset about it.
He is watching others bloom around him and it makes him upset and insecure.
The illustration was definitely a lot of fun and one of the main things I liked about the books.
One being that I found it uncomfortable how much his dad paid attention to his son "blooming", but also because I felt like there was not a great message behind it.
I think Robert Kraus did a great job with a narrative that had a feel-good narrative that warms the heart and carries a special meaning for any individual.
Identifying vectors in this book between the characters like Leo and his dad could be somewhat complicated as Leo and his dad look extremely similar that may make it more difficult to identify who is who.
For example, because he's a sloppy eater, Leo is drawn to be at the bottom center of the page, but his expression is different from the other animals who look more composed.
This isn't really a back to school book per se but I like to read it every year for my benefit and that of my young readers.
All the other animals are learning to read to write, to draw, and to speak, but not Leo, a young tiger cub.
Then one day, in his own good time, Leo blooms, and he can do everything his friends can do - read, write, draw, eat, and speak in whole sentences.
When this came out in 1971, Leo the Late Bloomer wasn't well received, but since then, we've thankfully come a long way in recognizing learning differences in children.
This adorable story is about a little tiger who is unable to write, read, draw, or talk.
Then, as the story goes on, Leo is encouraged to keep trying and that eventually he will get it.
It turns out that his parents were right and that he was just a late bloomer, and he learns to write, read, draw, and talk all at once.
This reminds me of myself and learning math.
I always seem to have trouble with grasping the information and need special help in most classes of math that I take.
The story is about a young animal named Leo who is developing a lot slower than the rest of the animals.
At the end of the story Leo finally blooms and develops all the other skills his peers have.
This would be an especially good read for a younger reader because the words are easy to handle, the illustrations are colorful/interesting, and the concept is interesting and relatable.
While reading the story I was drawn into the illustrations and the mystery of whether Leo would finally bloom and become the animal his dad wanted him to be.
I appreciate the cartoonish illustrations and the unique message in this picture book about a little tiger who learned to read, write, and eat neatly later than his tiger peers, but I'm of mixed minds about it. I think this book could be reassuring to readers who face struggles and can overcome them - but it is problematic for some who won't be able to learn and execute the skills of their peers. The magical ending of everything working out (except maybe not the relationship with Leo's parents....) lowers the rating of this book for me.
When I first read this book, my first thoughts were; this book is odd, it has simple words, and I can't possibly explain this book to children.
However, when I saw that it was published in 1971 I began to perceive the value of this social-emotional story because it is just as relevant now as it was in the 70's.
Life to children is simple.
Peace, love, flowers, and children bloom, yet, it seems that our destiny as parents is to be worriers of our children for an undetermined amount of life time.
Read this colorful illustrated and down to earth book to see how Leo and his family cope with his differences.
this book is a great story for children.
it discusses how Leo has not bloomed, even though everyone else has.
it is important for students to read this book because it shows them that even though not everyone is the same, they are still important.
just because you dont understand a lesson in class yet, but you feel as though everyone else in class does, that does not mean you are a bad student.
it is important for children to know everyone goes at their own pace and you cannot judge others for not being at the level you are at.
3.Leo the Late Bloomer- Written by Robert Kraus Pictures by: Jose AruegoHarper Collins: Reissue Edition 1999Lexile Measure: 120Ages: 3-8USA Grades: Pre-K- Grade 2Leo the Late Bloomer is the enduring story about a young tiger that is developmentally behind the other jungle animals.
He couldn’t read, write, draw…Naturally, his father is concerned, but his mother reassures him that Leo will blossom soon.
Eventually, over time, Leo is able to do all the things the other animals can do.
I think this would be especially beneficial to children that have to overcome extra hurdles in their lives.(Check out my blog post 10 Incredible Individuals & 2 Math activities Pre-K- Grade 5)
Personally I think that this message is just as important, if not more important, for parents and adult who work with children to learn.
It is great though, to let children know that it doesn't matter if you're the first person to "bloom" or the last.
We all get there in our own time and there's no sense in rushing it, because it can never be rushed no matter hard you try.
Starting around 5 sometimes 4 children start paying attention to what other can do versus what they can do.
It's important to the children that it's fine if they're or their friend is the last one to "bloom".
