https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/253058.Temple_of_the_Winds
While the first book was mindless fun, in the following books I have read ad nauseum about Richard’s Raptor Gaze, the word TRUTH pressing into his palm, his anger rising and magical RAAAGE surging, simply wanting to be a woodsman, oh I’m a War Wizard but can’t use magic, convoluted morals, and some other shit that my numbed brain can’t quite recall at the moment.Instead of an 11-book series, I’m fairly certain it could have been cut to about 6.
(And I want to save the one star, because I’m pretty sure there is much worse to come.)So, seriously, this book was very, very bad.It’s pretty rare that I say a book is “bad.” Most books have redeeming qualities, or maybe just aren’t my thing.
Or, she shouldn’t be, if Goodkind knew how to write his own character.The pinnacle of the Hot Mess of Nadine comes when Nadine details to Kahlan why Richard and she never got together, and it turns out Nadine’s version of getting a man is just as bad and stupid as she is.
The series covers many aspects of the dark side of humanity, in great detail, as the heroes try to overcome the evils in the world.
Goodkind is not afraid to show his readers just what evil *really* is, that is, most often, people who perform acts of evil feel justified in their minds as to why they are doing so, if for illogical reasons, and will that those that oppose them are the evil ones.
Goodkind shows his readers that the only way to overcome evil in ourselves and in the world is through use of Reason.
Terry Goodkind looks like a hack amateur in this book.Anyway, so the plot finally plods along to the point where some sort of resolution is supposed to happen, thank god, and it's revealed that Richard must marry Nadine, and Kahlan must marry Drefan to end the plague, because reasons.
So I got to thinking, well, hey, there's like a good dozen or so female characters in this book, and they've all had speaking parts, but I can't remember any of them talking to each other about anything other than Richard, or some other man, or with the subtext of a man somewhere in the conversation.
The former landscape painter has told us how he isn't a fantasy author in every interview he's ever given:"The books I write are first of all novels, not fantasy, and that is deliberate; I'm really writing books about human beings."(1)"To define me as a fantasy writer is to misunderstand the context of my books by misidentifying their fundamentals."(2)"The stories I'm telling are not fantasy-driven, they're character-driven, and the characters I want to write about could be set in any world.
Despite what he says, nothing separates his work from the average modern fantasy author, and like them, his greatest failing is the complete lack of self-awareness that overwhelms his themes, plots, and characters.My Fantasy Book Suggestions
This is the one that made me stop reading the series. In fact, I set the book down without even finishing it. Goodkind just keeps rehashing the same old stuff over and over and it's not fresh any more. He's also downright fixated on sex and I just felt too disgusted to continue. I don't have a problem with reading about sex (I read the Kushiel series by Jacqueline Carey, for crying out loud!) - it's not the sex, it's the intent that creeped me out. I haven't picked up another Goodkind book since putting this one down.

2.5 stars. Big drop off from the first three books but still a decent, if underwhelming, novel. The scope of the threat posed by the Imperial Order continues to increase.
This book was both a struggle and hard to put down. I found it hard to get into for the first few pages after picking it up back up, but then some tendril of the story would grab me, and I would keep reading. The action seemed to stop and start during the book, and it was quite difficult to figure out where certain characters loyalties lie. The climax was protracted and rather delicious, and while the resolution was a little shorter than I would have liked, it will do.
This time I gave myself a hefty TBR (books 4 and 5 of SOT) hoping that I would make some kind of progress in this reread and maybe rekindle my love for Richard and Kahlan.
I will admit that by the end of this I was reading a few SOT comments about sexual violence and rape (which are hella prevalent in the books), but I think we all know that that's awful and stupid and unacceptable...although I will admit, Terry Goodkind has a way with torture.
But this guy's luck is incredible.The redeeming aspect of the end is that there are sort of consequences (the chimes), but they won't make an appearance until the next book.
Maybe it's because Richard's character has evolved to the point that the philosophical arguments Goodkind is trying to espouse actually make sense from Richard's perspective.
It reminds me of The Stone of Tears, although I'll admit that this one has more action in it.Goodkind struggles with portraying all of his characters and putting them in interesting situations.
The books are already rather long, but maybe a different editing approach would have allowed our favourite recurring characters some more time to shine.
I suffered the horrible psychological pain as Kahlen, Richard, Warren, those children, their mothers, as Berdine, as Cara...you are one sick man.I went through all the torment of the dis-chord, and kept going hoping that at any moment you would let a resolve chord ring.
I read some of the other reviews on here for this book and people are actually appreciative of your dark exploration of evil.
Sir, it is not an exploration, and I am not religious...you embody the most hateful things ever put on paper.
The reviews say, keep going, the other books are better.
This book was the nail in the coffin for my interest in reading this series. While the first offering was an alright read, the events that occured in the following books got more ludicrous. Add in a cheesy romance story that's so over-the-top and this rubbish became almost unbearable to finish. I don't know how so many people can recommend this series. I feel that it is utter garbage. If I could give less than one star (read: zero) I would.
Once again, a story line that would be inconsequentual if the main characters would only talk to one another instead of rushing of headlong into danger (to cause more problems). I stopped reading the series after this book.
He literally takes the mythology and stories that are very specific to the Wheel of Time, and lazily changes the names and dynamics just enough so he doesn't get sued.
If your a man in a Goodkind book, you're lucky, nobody even takes a swing at you most of the time.
There's no "hey, I'm writing this to help fight violence against women yada yada".
And I mean this literally so I'll write it again, that is the *only* plot device that he uses to create tension.

Yes, folks, this book is very hard to read. But there is redemption...Any part with Zedd is pretty good. But he's a pretty decent character, so that is to be expected.Kahlan cries some more. No surprise here.Lots of people start dying. And there is a bit of sex. Oh la la.Trudge through it. The other books are better.
This book is so bad I couldn't finish reading it. The only reason I made it all the way through on my second attempt is because a friend told me the series gets better, and that the middle few books are rough. Goodkind needed to get laid because he takes out his sexual frustration with his characters.
I cannot believe that there are these great stories that could be told in this rich and varied world, that just aren't happening.
The only character with half-a-brain is Zedd, and i suspect that is only because we only see Zedd for like seven chapters.As for the story, the Emperor releases a magical plague he stole from the temple of the winds, and Richard has to figure out how to get in there to save the day.
He does.**Spoiler**I think the story would improve immensely if Richard would actually get punished for making such horrible decisions.
Temple of the Winds is a place you wish you were, because that way, you'd be far, far away, in a fantasy world, and not reading this worthless abortion.Note to Goodkind haters: Before you call Terry a misogynistic piece of shit for turning Kahlan into a hypocritical whore, read Laurell K. Hamilton's Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter series. Female authors treat their female characters no better. Besides, there are a million better reasons to call Terry Goodkind a misogynistic piece of shit.
If you like terrible writing, redundant plotlines, inane characters, lots of rape and violence then Terry Goodkind is your man. Otherwise, try Robert Jordan, George R.R. Martin or Matthew Stover.
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaahh!I can't remember ever reading a book as dark/twisted/perverse as this. So THOROUGHLY MESSED UP. And I love it.I cannot believe the shit Goodkind puts his characters through.Not even TV!Kahlan/Richard will be the same to me after this.
Basically, she acts like the crazy ex-girlfriend, following Richard everywhere and keeping tabs on him every waking hour, which is strange considering they were never a couple (except, perhaps, in her mind).(view spoiler)[Then, of course, comes the much-anticipated "message" revealing to Richard and Kahlan that in order to enter the Temple of the Winds and find the magic to cure the plague, they must each marry another for all time and never ever see, touch or talk to one another EVER again.
This book follows the pattern that has been established in previous books of jumping between multiple plots every few chapters.
Attention to conversation is needed as it is not always announced as to whom is speaking.As with others books in this series, the plot setup takes several chapters to get all the players introduced to the reader.
Not always fast-paced, some might find that the large amount of detail may be overkill, but once getting to the end of the book, you will see it's necessity.Overall, I liked this installment of the Sword of Truth series and cannot wait to read book 5, Soul of the Fire.
Il rovescio della medaglia, invece, è dato, ancora una volta, dalla quasi assenza del mago Zed: lui e la priora Ann, in tutto il libro, ci vengono "mostrati" soltanto in un continuo spostarsi da un punto all'altro dell'immaginario territorio inventato da Terry Goodkind; e quel che è grave è che...
non ho capito il perché di tutti questi loro spostamenti!!!Da segnalare, inoltre, l'ingresso di un nuovo personaggio (ma alla fine del libro verrà ucciso): si tratta di Drefan Rahl (fratellastro malvagio di Richard), e la conferma che anche il grande profeta Nathan...
Temple of the Winds was a little harder for me to get through as I decided to check out the audiobook.
There was so much talk in this one I wasn't as excited to pick back up where I paused at.Yes, the story-line was interesting, but getting from point A to point B was not altogether painless.Nadine, a troubled little twit from Richard's home, arrives to stir up a cauldron of trouble.
Richard's reactions to Nadine's condemnation of Kahlan scared me a little.
Shame on them.I don't know if I would have forgiven Kahlan.
She had a little too much fun doing what she did.
But, even in the Sword of Truth books as a whole, Terry Goodkind does a great job of having exciting conclusions to, and this book was no exception.
It seemed like they were only done to keep a handful of characters from being forgot about until you can get to this book's sequel.I listened to the audio book for my reading and while overall the narrator did an OK job with it, I wanted to reach through the speakers and strangle him for speaking Kahlan's name completely wrong.
He says it in a way than none of the the narrators of previous Sword of Truth books or TV show have said it.
These challenges made me move through this book a little more slowly than the previous three, and the beginning was a bit more slow moving than I would have liked, so it took me a bit longer to read than I expected.
Again, Terry Goodkind messed with my mind and made me despair that things would turn out the way I wanted them to, or thought they should.
But, as always, he managed to give me the ending I wanted in an unexpected way and with the promise of lots of new conflict and heartache to come.
I swear I don't know why I like these books.
When that thing DOES happen it left me so physically upset that I cried in real life.
I was drowning in this fake world.Of all the authors I have ever read, NONE have been able to change my views on the world or have affected me as a human being.Second, if you start with the first novel of the series it's called Wizards First Rule.Don't be daunted by the large size of the novels, because I will warn you now --they aren't long enough!
It was the life I led while reading this series and more specifically this book.It will change you.
As always, Terry Goodking paints with words on paper an experience full of the sharpest emotions and feeling, describing them so well that you cannot help but be submerged into the world of the Seeker.And yet, this story is as diffetent from the three previous books, as they are from each other, thus bringing the reader a whole new level of excitement and pleasure.Temple of the Winds satiated the thirst I felt after I finished reading the third part of the series and left me wanting more.
