https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/485558.Alfred_Hitchcock_Presents
Good evening, readers, take a seat... This is the original anthology edition featuring 25 stories, if you plan to read, check it out that the edition you get is this one, since posterior edition changed some stories and even they took out several stories.The general rating is an average result of each individual rating of the stories contained in the anthology.I am fan of Hitchcock’s directing work, and when I found this book, I knew that I have to read it, any set of stories able to scare the
By Miriam Allen deFordRating: ***** ( 5 stars )A town mortician has an unique family and the unexpected arrival of a new member may change his status quo forever.One heck of a tale, with interesting characters and a really good development of narrative.
By Robert SomerlottRating: ***** ( 5 stars )Odd tale about an unexpected meeting with various persons sharing a dark past.Great premise, with solid characters and a strong development.
Soon enough strange things starting to happen during the renovation of the house and beyond.Great story, with solid character, an engaging narrative and a priceless creepy ending.
(And the concluding "horror" of Gerald Kersh's "Men Without Bones" is toothless unless you accept Kersh's Darwinist worldview.) In most of these stories, the effects are accomplished with little if any directly described violence.Some stories here have happy endings in which the menace is destroyed or defeated; many are tales of supernatural or natural vengeance on unsympathetic characters who thoroughly deserve it; and a few are tragic tales of undeserved doom falling on characters whom the reader likes and can identify with.
It's a testament to the memorable quality of these works that after a lapse of about forty years, I can still remember Wyndham's novel --one of science fiction's more original takes on the theme of alien invasion-- and vividly recall many of the stories, including supernatural gems like T.
These stories. Are. Creepy.Of course it helps to have a musty copy of this book with yellowed pages, reading it alone in your room at night as creatures stir in the woods outside...I reread T.H. White's 'The Troll' recently and it scared me even more. This isn't cheap stuff. These tales were handpicked by Hitch himself and they are the elegant sort of horror tale in the tradition of Poe that just bother you. They don't shock you, they put ideas into your head that bother you, for days.
Cuentos:- La habitación de los niños (2 estrellas)- ¡Tan Real!... (3 estrellas)- Viaje a la muerte (2 estrellas)- El amo de los perros (4 estrellas)- El candidato (2 estrellas)- El misterios de las profundidades (3 estrellas)
Worth the price just to read Miriam Allen Deford's "A Death in the Family" a great little horror story which Rod Serling adapted into a wonderful segment of "Rod Serling's Night Gallery" by the same name. Some other excellent stories as well!
Stories were neither that great nor that scary....
With the exception of John Wyndham's novella at the end of this collection, I really enjoyed these stories. Some of them I have read over and over. Party Games creeps me out every time.
This was pretty lame.
Maybe these stories aren't suitable for the passage of time, or maybe they're just lame.
All of them SO predictable, many of them wasted potential, not one of them actually scary.
The longest ones are the worst since you read like 30 pages of build up for everything to finish in a boring, foreseeable, accelerated, and unsatisfying ending.
Some of them are so unbelievable that just break the suspension of disbelief in such a way that it's not even that funny.
The twists are either boringly predictable or just plain bad.I kinda enjoyed some of the ideas, I just hate the way they were developed.
É muito arriscado dar um título desse a uma coletânea tão ruim, apesar de um excelente jogo de marketing a gente se sente muito enganado.Gosto muito dessas seleções de contos no gênero suspense/terror/fantástico feitas por Hitchcock que viraram episódios do programa Alfred Hichcock apresenta, e como já tinha lido vários desses já sabia que o título era puro exagero.
O primeiro conto é excelente (pra quem curte o gênero mórbido) mas é o único que salva, nem consigo me lembra dos outros, com exceção do último (A Ameaça do Fundo do Mar) que me irritou profundamente por parecer interminável, ocupando mais da metade do volume.
Worth it for the Theodore Sturgeon and John Wyndham alone. The other stories are no clunkers either. Highly recommended for lovers of short science fiction and/or horror stories that leave you no easy resolution.
Read this back in the 70’s, my mother had a paperback copy. I remembered I liked it but can’t remember any of the stories. Guess I’ll need to read it, again.
Out of the Deeps was a novel: It (not by Stephen King) was a "Novelette", and the rest were 'stories'.
All had something that chilled about them.Out of the Deeps had me very nervous for humanity because nobody wanted to face that strange occurrences were the result of an alien invasion.
It was only as some humans went missing from the shorelines or the water level rose precipitously higher than normal that governments started their work.
(view spoiler)[ Aliens invaded the oceans and settled in the deeps.
Then the aliens started going up on the shores to get people.
I picked up this book at the library because it contains a short story "X Marks he Pedwalk" which I had been looking for for a long time.
That particular story is very short but good, and I decided to read the rest of them.
There's a particularly memorable one about a little girl who discovers a plant-monster, and one where a couple gets held hostage by a WWII vet with two dobermans.
The scariest one was a story about a couple who builds a house in a prestigious area of Southern California only to discover it was once a Spanish execution grounds.
In addition to being one of the greatest film directors of all time, and hoating a wonderful, long- running television show, Alfred Hitchcock lent his name to a series of short story anthologies that were almost always first-rate.
I read nearly all of them, and reveled in their dark, hard-boiled look at life.
The best of these stories are like classic film noir; terribly depressing, but fascinating and irresistable.
My personal favorite of all is in this volume.
For those who love crime and mystery, and short stories in general, this volume is one of the best.
This book is a compilation of old stories that were meant to scare people.
More or less to get the reader to really think about how the paranormal, elderly, historical people can play a role in society.
Yes there were some suspenseful, mind twisting, and weird stories but come to think of it, this book was written in I think 1967 (Please do not quote me on it).
Obviously it was meant to readers of higher level.
Higher level by tooshy!
I say, "if you think you got what it takes to understand it, accept the challenge and give it a swing.
My father gave me this book - which had belong to him - when I was a kid. Many of the stories were a bit over my head at the time and I stayed up light, with a light under the blanket, struggling to get through these addictive & deliciously creepy horror stories. Almost all of them were spine tingling, shudder inducing tales of a cruesome or ironic nature - this is one of those books that you go back to again and again. Good stuff!
This is without a doubt the most disturbing book I have ever read. I discovered it at the school library when I was 12 after devouring all the horror classics like Dracula and Frankenstein and some of the stories terrified me to my very core. The sentiment of unease I got reading them followed me for months.
Varios relatos increíblemente decentes, sobretodo el último que puede y debería ser llevado al cine, Kraken Wakes de John Wyndham que está metido extrañamente en una antología de sobretodo cuentos escalofriantes. Muy recomendada esta antología, nomas asegurense de tener tiempo para revisarla porque es algo extensa.
More like 3.5 stars, because it wasn't bad... just dated, some of them uncomfortably so. And some were so melodramatic it'd turn your hair white, but in an enjoyable, duck and cover, kind of way. I talked about a few of the stories last week on the blog, and I'll probably put it down for now until next fall.
Algunos relatos me han gustado mucho y otros no tanto, le daría 5 estrellas sólo al primero de la colección y a los demás 4 ó 5. El último de los relatos es de John Wyndham y me ha gustado mucho pero es muy largo, yo lo calificaría casi de novela corta, y corta un poco el rollo del resto de historias. Aún así, creo que el gusto de Hitchcock para elegir relatos es original y muy variado.
Alfred Hitchcock recopila en este libro, narraciones cortas sumamente interesantes, además de escalofriantes y macabras. Fueron escritas por diferentes autores, y como menciona el libro, cualquiera de estos cuentos hubiese sido un éxito cinematográfico. Muy recomendable.
This was on my Mom's bookshelf.....I read it as a teen-ager and remember being enthralled especially with the creepy story "Part Games". Years later I still remember how this short story frightened me!
Gostei do livro, foi o primeiro do tipo que li e achei muito interessante. Alguns dos contos são triviais e não chamam tanto a atenção, outros, apesar de curtos, são muito divertidos e prendem muito a atenção.Recomendo
Outstanding collection, most of which I've never read before. The novel by John Wyndham is amazingly prescient about the effects of sea level rise, which unfortunatly I think we're going to see come true.
Some stories were huge let downs. Others were quite enjoyable. I'm sure that I'll remember bits and pieces of these stories but have a hard time remembering where I read them.
These stories are wonderful. Zoom through them or read one a night. Good read.
My grandmother bequeathed me a ton of wonderful horror and science fiction anthologies and this is one of them. My grandmother had awesome taste. I'm going to go reread all of this immediately.
Some good stories, some spooky stories, some strange stories. All in all a good read, but nothing much getting too excited about.
Some good stories, some not so great.
Popsugar 2017 reading challenge:8. Un libro con múltiples autores -  Hitchcock fue el genio tras esta antología  -  2017 Challenge FAIL
