https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11089.The_Read_Aloud_Handbook
For example, "In the nearly ten years since the arrival of the [Harry:] Potter books, school crime was down, teen pregnancies declined, and teen smoking and drug use dropped." Okay.
But Trelease is totally implying that the reading obsession that consumes kids during their Harry Potter years is linked to a drop in teen pregnancies?
Trelease's information in that section is very interesting and that's a practice that probably doesn't really occur to many of us.So basically, the Treasury of Read-Alouds makes this book completely worth time and even money.
This book turned out to be way more informative than I expected.
It gives healthy information about fathers especially stepping up their game to influence their children (boys in particular) in education and reading.
This book made me reflect on my childhood and how much my parents actually did read to me with a large portion being the Bible which I believe had the greatest affect on my life- Truth was poured into me every.
This is a fantastic book that any parent should own. It really helps you understand the need to read out loud to your children (teenagers included)and the benefits that happen from doing so. He also explains that a child's listening level is higher than his reading level, which is important. That is the first part of the book. The rest of it contains reading lists with summaries about the books, which is a great help for picking out books your children will love.
A friend questioned the one star so I thought I would rewrite the review.
We have to obsessively study the topic too?" Maybe I am the one who is way off and I should be a bit more interested in reading about different ideas as they pertain to raising my daughter.
I was raised by two hyper-intelligent people who were the most hands off parents you could meet, they were voracious readers and as a direct result I am a voracious reader.
I think we are all losing our minds and making raising kids way harder than it needs to be.
The "Treasury of Read-Alouds" that comprises the second half of this book salvages the first half, which is basically Trelease's excuse to spout opinions on all aspects of parenting.
I was not a fan of the whole tone of the book, especially the way in which Trelease talks down to his readers.
So let's make it simple." The only way that statement would be complicated would be if the reader didn't understand the word "comprehension." Further, on page 38, we hear, "Now that I've established the idea in your mind that there is a significant difference between listening level and reading level .
You've established an idea in my mind?
This book is a great reference when you want to know what would be a good book to read aloud to your children.
When we read aloud to our children things that are exciting to them, they develop a love of books.
Then, because they know and love books, they will do the work to learn how to read fluently.
The first 1/3 of the book is explaining why and how to read aloud.
They are listed according to "listening level." (NOT the child's reading level.) I have loved using this book as a reference at home and in the classroom.
This book is a game changer! I always knew it was “good” to read to your kids, but never knew how much! This author shares a lot of old-school wisdom: require your kids to read, turn off the TV, reading to your kids provides a great connection, etc. I don’t agree with every point such as: any reading is good reading, Oprah‘s book club is a wonderful thing, and the Harry Potter books lowered crime and teen pregnancies (?!), etc. By sifting through his enthusiasm, this is a really great book.
This book is a fantastic resource for parents, teachers and librarians.
It discusses the importance of reading aloud to children and the many positive effects it has.
The book dives into silent reading, TV watching and other reading-related issues as well.
I feel like every parent, teacher and librarian would benefit from reading this.The second half of the book is a reading treasury- just a suggestion list of books that are good to read aloud (as opposed to some that are better read silently).
These books are marked with the grade level suggested for the listeners and a brief description.
Another book I include in baby shower gift baskets. This one includes the research behind the need to read aloud to children of all ages (not just young children). (I'm sure the research part is not for everyone) Includes a great treasury of read aloud books... I actually have the 5th & 4th editions, but not this one yet... The difference between the 4th & 5th editions was an updated treasury of books, & also chapters addressing Harry Potter, Oprah book clubs, Internet, etc... I can't wait to see new additions to the 6th edition.
I know that this review may seem a little over the top but, this is the first time that I have ever finished reading a library book and then ordered it on amazon.com within minutes of finishing it.
Anyone who ventures onto a book review blog (thanks for coming by the way) already knows and values the importance of reading.
My favorite part of the book is all of the letters and personal stories that are shared.
This is a book that I expect will become well worn in the Squire household.
My initial thoughts about this book: I know it's good to read to children.
why do I need to read a book to tell me that again.
Now however I am so glad I took the time to read this.
Many reports, studies and articles are cited but made accessible.Occasionally some conclusions seemed a bit sweeping but all in all this book is bound to inspire and/or encourage anyone to read to children and even to continue reading as they get older.
Yes!!I also cried (yes, really) when I read the end of Chapter 10 when Trelease describes the 9th grade teacher Mr. Schmidt who sent a note home to his parents about what a great student Trelease was in English.
Trelease describes the profound impact this note had on his life, how he lost track of that teacher, but then later dedicated the first version of this book to Mr. Schmidt.
(This is the 7th edition of this book, it was first published in 1979.) Mr. Schmidt told Trelease the dedication made his week, his month, and his 30 years of education.
While I've always known the general facts about the benefits of reading aloud and how accessibility to print in the home (and parents who model reading) leads to kids who love reading, much of the exact research was new and fascinating to me. Jim Trelease's writing style is very accessible (not overly academic) and he has lots of great practical tips, some of which were new to me. Plus, his lengthy list of read aloud recommendations (spanning from picture books to high school-level novels) is stellar.
The Read-Aloud Handbook sure wasn't.Trelease starts with inspirational dubious correlation!=causation studies, anecdotes, and not very much in terms of useful advice for parents and teachers with reasonably normal instincts.
As one can tell from my "read/to-read" lists here, I tend to cut a wider swath, therefore am suspicious of the recommendations of someone so glued to his own time.
Maybe later editions of this book are improved (I'm reading the first ed, and the Handbook is up to seventh), but I'm not placing much stock in Trelease as a useful recommender.
So when I picked this book up I was less interested in his advice about reading and more interested in the treasury - the many pages of book lists in the second half of the book.
Trelease offers solid evidence in support of reading aloud, to both kids and teens, and offers useful advice for creating a read-aloud habit in the family and classroom.
The book also offers useful information for facilitating and encouraging good reading habits in children and teens, while still preserving the fun factor in reading.A favorite quote from the book: "We have time for what we value.
The book consists of two major sections: The first half of the book stresses the importance of reading aloud (even after your children have learned to read on their own).
It sites study after study of how reading aloud strongly influences almost every aspect of the child's academic life: vocab, grammar, awareness, IQ, etc.
Never too young to start reading and certainly never too old to enjoy a good story together.
Exposure gives children a huge advantage over those less fortunate.The second half of the book lists a treasury of fantastic read-alouds.
Starting with picture books, moving to short and long novels.
Luckily, this has always been the case, but now I understand the importance of it.One thing that was brought out again and again was the importance of reading and going to the library.
We read and hung out there for a few hours and then came home with our arms full of books.
Now I understand what a gift my mother gave to me by taking me to the library and making us rise early giving me hours of undisturbed time to fall in love with books!
I got it from the library and now I think I might need to buy it.The first half is a lot of statistics and info on reading and literacy, many alarming, others inspiring.
2.7.) Loved the stories about individuals who helped provide books to libraries in communities that were lacking.
That's the reason I'm thinking of buying it- there is enough material here to last many years of trips to the library.
I generally think of myself as a person who is somewhat familiar with quality children's books, but many of the suggestions were new to me.
It's a perfect resource for teachers, librarians, booksellers, anyone who is interested in children's/YA literature.
The first part of the book is a PASSIONATE argument for the benefits of reading out loud to children (AND teens), which leads to a passion for reading in general.
If you don't think that's a very interesting argument, you should just sit down and read the book; you'll be converted.
Any teacher or librarian or bookseller or any advocate for children/reading should absolutely read this book and memorize passages from it.
This book consists of two sections: (1) 178 pages detailing Trelease's views of why and how we should read to our children, followed by (2) short descriptions of recommended books for reading aloud.
While Trelease mentions other benefits of reading aloud, I think that he shortchanges the value of reading as a source of lifelong joy, a means of acquiring information and becoming exposed to the ideas of others, and the fun of the read-aloud experience between parent and child.
I happened across another book, What to Read When by Pam Allyn, that left me much more excited about reading aloud than this better-known book.
This is by far one of my most favorite books of all time.
I devoured it every time I picked it up.
I chose this book when my son started 'falling behind' in reading at school.
I immediately started using the tools in the book and reading the books from the treasury and there was instant improvement at home.
In a matter of two weeks, we've gone from tears/fights/frustration to excitement, pride and wonder during my son's reading practices.
We now have family reading hour every day and my kids only cry if it's time to put the books up.
I really, really liked the overall message about the importance of reading aloud to your children and creating positive reading experiences for your child so that they have positive associations with reading. However I feel like the book was very repetitive. I really enjoyed the beginning of the book and then found it difficult to finish. The overall message "The more you read, the better you get at it; the better you get at it, the more you like it; and the more you like it, the more you do it" is so key for raising readers.
Excellent and inspiring! I thought I already understood the importance of reading aloud to children of all ages, but I am more convicted than ever! I went ahead and read all the book recommendations in the treasury even though I have younger kids, and I now have many books to look forward to sharing with my girls. I also have suggestions for families with older children, too. This book is wonderful. Go read to a kid today!
This book had me in tears more than once. (Preaching to the choir.) A great book about reading to your kids - its importance and its pleasure.
The Read-Aloud Handbook (7th Edition) by Jim Trelease immediately caught my eye for no other reason than I'm a giant nerd for my profession.
:-D The first half of the book is a discussion about the importance of reading and more specifically reading aloud to children from birth to...forever.
(That really can make all the difference, folks!) Trelease also talks about the rearing of his children and their nightly routine of book reading.
Perhaps the most compelling parts of this book are the firsthand narratives of the significance of reading aloud throughout childhood and the benefits gained from it.
Originally I picked up Jim Trelease’s “The Read-Aloud Handbook” because I was searching for a “greatest hits” collection of books I wanted to reference for Dean’s at-home library.
Each is chock-fill of research and extraordinary insights that backs up the importance of reading aloud to children.
It’s more important than work sheets, homework, book reports, and flash cards and high SAT scores have been linked to parents who read to their kids daily, even after they can read on their own.I CANNOT recommend this book enough, especially if you have children, are a teacher or librarian, and/or want to help kids become better readers.
As an avid reader since before I can remember, reading-aloud to our children has always been a priority and a large part of our family culture.
I didn't think this book could possibly increase my desire to read-aloud to our children-but it did!
I expected more of a laundry list of recommended read-alouds for children, separated by age; this was much more than that (although the reading list is included in the back of the book).
Not only does reading aloud to a child improve her vocabulary/grammar/comprehension, it also increases her desire-and ability-to read on her own.
I picked up this book to be wowed with overwhelming evidence that I should be reading more to my kids. And boy did I get! In the three weeks or so that I have been reading this book, I started reading more to my kids. Now it's like a runaway train!
This book contained some great information and helpful tips, but was a bit dry to read. (The title does call it a handbook, so I probably shouldn’t be surprise.) Nevertheless, it did inspire me to read more to the kids and I found the study that subtitles improve reading to be very interesting.
Still relevant today. A great book to support teachers with their understanding of the impact reading aloud has on chn of all ages.
