https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/997600.The_Wump_World
The happy little wumps - cute, capybara-like creatures - are the only inhabitants of a lush green planet, brimming with rivers, lakes, edible grasses, and bumbershoot trees.So, of course, someone MUST come along and ruin everything.
Strange blue creatures called Pollutians arrive, and the wumps are driven underground as their home is soon destroyed by giant machinery, freeways, and skyscrapers.
Before long, the planet is so befouled, the Pollutians leave on spaceships to wreck another world.There is no Lorax in Peet's bittersweet cautionary tale, and it's pretty clear which species the Pollutians are supposed to be.
Rather than try to fix the planet we're destroying, some of us are talking about starting over on another one.
For those ignorant of these fair beasts, here is a picture of one:Here is a picture of a family of them:And here is one with a caiman:OK, maybe I am just using this review as an excuse to post Capybara pictures, but the resemblance is striking.Anyway, since this site is called GoodReads and not GoodLargeRodents, suppose I should talk about the book.It is a very straight forward environmental parable about the perils of resource exploitation and non-sustainable economic growth wrapped up in a Manichean conflict between nature and industry with our poor wumps stuck in between.The villains of this morality play are the aptly named "Pollutians", refuges from a previous planet they spoiled.
It tells the story of the gentle (and adorable!) Wumps, the only creatures to inhabit a small and grassy planet, and the Pollutians (from the planet Pollutus) who come to take over (their arrival looks like something out of "Avatar"!!!) turning the green world into a concrete jungle and polluted mess.
I was not a fan of the ending of the book--the Pollutians just up and leave the planet when they find another one that they haven't messed up.
This is a very 1970 book.
I don’t remember this book though.The wumps are probably the cutest fictional creatures I ever did see.
The story is a very heavy handed message but it’s a good one, and I suppose it was slightly forward thinking in 1970 when this was first published.It has a bit of a bittersweet ending, and it’s definitely a cautionary tale, and sobering because it conveys that while some damage can be reversed, the world will never be the same, yet hopeful at some level too.I recently read How Droofus the Dragon Lost His Head by this author and I really enjoyed it.
“The Wump World” is a truly effective tale that really delivers the message of the dangers of pollution in a creative and dramatic way.Bill Peet has done a magnificent job at bringing the message of the consequences of polluting as the Wump World becomes so polluted that no life can really live on the planet.
The images that stood out the most in this book are the images of the pollution that the Pollutians have brought to the Wump World as the sky and the world looks so dark and dreary, which effectively brings out the message of the dangers of pollution in an effective way.Parents should know that the Pollutians do not seem to learn their lesson as they seem more intent on finding another planet to live on rather then just fixing up the mess they have caused.
When I was a child, I read the heck out of Bill Peet's library of books.
His stories were entertaining, sometimes thought provoking (especially to a child), and the artwork was detailed and fun without being overly trite.
This is the book that stands out to me the most.
The story of the Wumps is a timeless morality tale, that is as relevant as it was when the book was written, as it is today.My mother was an elementary school teacher before she retired and still retains much of her class library.
As soon as I saw the cover, I knew I had to read it.
And then I saw the publication date (1970) and I got even more excited.
Opened the book and saw rocket ships...
not quite what I expected for a book with a bunch of fuzzy rodents on the cover.The message is obvious: humans are destroying the planet.
Sadly, even more so now than 45 years ago.
Some of the illustrations are a little ugly by today's standards, but this book would be a good way into a conversation with your elementary schooler about climate change or imperialism.
This was my favorite book when I was a kid. It's amazing.No wonder I turned out the way I did.
They force the Wumps to live underground as they begin to build their city and pollute the world.
The Wump World addresses the issues of unnatural pollution and long term effects of environmental damage in the form of a child's book.
I don't want to rate this book simply by how well it compares to The Lorax, but I feel both try to convey the same general idea, and The Wump World does a slightly better job at it.
Additionally, it utilizes illustrations well and keeps a good narrative pace from beginning to end despite being slightly wordier than most picture books.
The Pollutians end up taking over some of their land, turning it into a concrete jungle but the little creatures end up finding one last piece of land and make it their best and start from the bottom up, all over again.At first the little creatures are afraid but towards the end of the book, they make the best of what they have left.
A theme in this book is go green, it really shows children what happens when land that is nothing but green gets polluted.
We borrowed this book from our local library as part of a kit with an audiocassette.
We listened to the story in the car while our girls followed along with the book.
I read the story myself later to catch the effect of the illustrations.
The story reminded us strongly of The Lorax and has a hit-you-on-the-head environmental message.
Overall, it's an entertaining and cautionary story and we all enjoyed it.
This story was selected as one of the books for the April 2010 - Environmental and Nature Themes reads at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
This colorful book provides an approachable introduction to the interrelated problems of resource consumption, environmental degradation, and pollution. A friend of mine dropped it in my lap after we had finished watching "The Cove" and started talking about sustainability and respect for nature, and I think it does an admirable job of sketching out the bigger picture with broad strokes. The resolution is rather abrupt, which risks misleading readers about the intensity of the analogous problems implied by the book.
The message is similar to that of Seuss' Lorax, but this is more straightforward and a faster read. Every child will feel sad for the wumps and be angry with the Pollutians. ... And I bet that this book angers every non-environmentalist. Surely it's been nominated for a banned book list somewhere.Re: 3-star ratingThe message and the art are definitely worthy of 4 or 5 stars, but the story is so sad that it isn't a book I enjoy reading.
As far as children's books about environmentalism go, this outstrips the Lorax by a mile in terms of charm. The problem aliens are much funnier-looking, for starters. And more to the point, who wouldn't feel sorry for cuddly little Wumps? Evidently modeled after capybaras, they're plump little fluffballs of placid cuteness - one of my favorite species in the Peet menagerie.
Awww. This book is just wonderful. I love the illustrations. And the text is just right. Nothing "off" about the writing here. I also love the bittersweet ending. I don't remember reading this as a kid, but I think I would have loved it.
I remember really enjoying this book as a kid. Now I'm going to have to find my old copy of it to read to my son.
4.5 stars. Led to a good discussion with my 4 year old son about how we treat our planet, and how not to be like the Pollutians. Very strong environmental message that definitely resonated with us.
This is one of those books that you can make together as a package along with the Lorax for the type of message that it will tell.
For many who have heard of capybaras they will find that the titular Wumps actually look like them and I wonder if the concept for the Wumps came from Capyboppy who was a young capybara raised by the Peets.
As a result of this species creation, Peet goes out of the way to make them stay looking more animal-like rather than having the deeply expressive faces that his animal characters usually take on.
One day, Martians called Pollutians, come down into their world looking for a new one to inhabit.
The Wumps eventually learn that they have to live underground to avoid the Pollutians and are sad.
After the Wumps finally leave underground, they live off of the grass and lakes that they have left and eventually, the planet starts getting back to normal again.
This is a book that will be able to teach the lesson of taking care of the earth and to preserve what things left in nature that we have left.
A great book for Earth Day.
The Wump World post-dates The Lorax, and falls right in the same line.  Everything is fine and peaceful until the Pollutians arrive, colonizing and polluting the planet.  However, The Wump World has a more optimistic ending than its counterpart, showing that nature will eventually reign again, though its coming may be slow.  With Peet's cute illustrations and didactic text, this makes for a great book to read to your children to teach them about environmentalism and ecocriticism.  Review cross-listed here!
This was amazing and infuriating.
I had never heard of this.
This book is along the same vein of the lorax.
Some people say it's too heavy handed.
That's the world we live in now.
This was written in the 1970's, and it's still true today.
It has the same message as the lorax the same sort of dismal outlook of: FIX IT.It didn't need a happy hopeful ending, much like the Lorax.
(I will compare these books forever I suppose).
It is making a point.
Sometimes you have to be heavy handed, and rough.
Some anvils need to be dropped.
I love this book because of the lighthearted way a serious topic is presented not to mention the adorable illustrations. The wumps are peaceful beings that have their world destroyed by the pollutants. The writing and illustrations offer an amazing approach to get children to love the Earth. The takeaway is to be kind to our planet and the creatures that inhibit it. I would use this book in an elementary school classroom as well as read to my own children.
We love The Wump World! After reading about how the Wumps world is destroyed by the Pollutians you’ll be inspired to take care of our world! This story has aliens, huge spaceships and cute little Wumps. It’s the perfect book to open up the discussion about what to do for our Earth so it doesn’t end up like the Wumps world.
Great book to use for Earth Day which is near and dear to my heart. My third graders understood and had a great grasp of air, water, land, and noise pollution. Hope they can save the world from the Pollutians!
Aliens colonize a peaceful grassland planet, destroying the habitat. Yet, the wumps survive, and there may still be hope...
This is a cute book about how we are polluting and ruining our world.
Such great imagery and message for teaching theme and author's purpose
I fear for this planet especially now, with our current "administration" in charge of this country.
I am happy I never have and never will be bringing children into this crumbling, polluted world, but I fear for my nieces and their future.
What will this world be like when they are my age is a worrisome thing to think about.
However, Bill Peet's illustrations of the Wumps are very adorable, and I know it was done on purpose.
The fact the Wumps were so cute made the destruction of their land even more heartbreaking.
Humans urbanize and industrialize the earth, building great cites, monuments and roads which expand outward as with the population.
Upon a further analysis of the book I begin to see that Bill Peet was actually drawing a parallel between the Wump World and our own.
If we do not consider our impact on the environment we may, just like the Pollutions, someday search for a new planet to populate.
We must consider our impact on the environment because although it may one day prosper again after it becomes a waist land, our foot print will never fade away from this planet.
This children’s book is lovely by all accounts.
All they do is eat grass, until their planet is invaded.
The author uses illustrations and text to convey a complete story.
As well as the destruction that their planet faces.
If we do not take a stand and correct our wrongs our planet can end up in the same state.
The author uses illustrations and text to completely tell the story.
I would love to use this picture book in my future class room to teach students the effect that we have on our planet.
