https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/979767.Coot_Club

In Coot Club, number five in the series, Dorothea and Dick end up on a sailing boat, in the region of Norfolk.
Instead, a telegram is sent, a phone call is made, and the sailing continues.
The innocence of the exchange makes your heart ache for something that we humans in grownup, civilized countries have completely lost and will never have again.
It's a poor exchange, and we are sadder for it.
And yet, Coot Club is an adventure story, with hooligans, traitors, pirates, and thugs to keep things lively.
I love the Swallows & Amazons world with my whole heart.
This book features neither of the series titular groups, but it is an easy favorite.
It starts with a kid taking direct action against rich, thoughtless “hullabaloos” in order to protect the lives of birds—he sets their motor cruiser adrift.
The adults agree he’s done what’s right, but now he’s an “outlaw” on the run.
The kids sail, take risks, have adventures, get into and out of scrapes.
They’re inventive, and welcoming.
It’s an idyllic world, one I’m always glad to escape to.
Plus, the pug narrates a few pages in this one.
Here is an example of the kind of parent I would like to be:"Look here, dad, what would you do if the only way to get to our baby was up this dyke, and mother and you and me were all on the other side of the river, and a huge motor-cruiser was fixed right across the opening of the dyke, so that none of us could get in, and our baby was all alone, and we knew that if we didn't get to him soon he'd go and die?""Do?" said the doctor.
"Good night, old chap.""Good night, dad," said Tom, and blew out his candle lantern.
We first encounter Dick and Dot in the book that comes before it when they are with the Swallows and the Amazons up in the northern lakes.
In this story they holiday on the Norfolk Broads and we encounter the Coot Club.
As Tom evades the Hullaballoos he teaches Dick and Dot how to sail, with the help of fellow Coot Club members, the twins, Port and Starboard.
Whilst Dick, Dot, Tom and the Death and Glories get to have more adventures on The Broads in The Big Six, sadly this Port and Starboard's only story.
Growing up the Swallows and Amazons series by Arthur Ransome was one of my favorite series. When I decided to re-read it as an adult I was worried that it would not stand the test of time. I was delighted to find that in general found it just as enjoyable now as I did as a child. The characters, writing style and adventures are great and I truly enjoyed the series.
Hard to beat Arthur Ransome's classic British stories for light summer reading with family and kids...we especially love these in audiobook format during summer vacation trips! This one features life on the water and the adventurousness of youth during a time when "helicopter" parenting was not at all in fashion...
I have wanted to read this since I visited the Norfolk Broads last Summer. It did not disappoint. I am not a sailor so the technical terms went rather over my head, but it was lovely to picture the places the children visited in their boat; and to enjoy an unchallenging 1930's "ripping yarn".
Another great book in the series! Very enjoyable! Lots of adventures, good food and great company! Love the twins and especially their nicknames Port and Starboard! Can’t wait to read this series to my Grandchildren in the future! Really enjoyed it!
Superb - anyone who has ever sailed (like me) will love all the technical details and sheer enthusiasm that probably made young adults from the late 30s take it up - loved it
J - LD Placeholder
I can't help but wish that I'd found this series when I was a youngster.
This time, the only familiar characters are Dick and Dorothea Callum, first introduced as new friends of the Walkers and Blacketts in Winter Holiday.
Though Mrs. Barrable expects to spend her holidays painting on a stationary Teasel, she soon finds herself on a sailing adventure, as Tom escapes some tourists he has upset, and Dick and Dorothea finally have a chance to prove themselves as real sailors.Of all the Ransome books I’ve reviewed so far, this one is the hardest to summarize.
The story is wrapped around the tension arising between the locals in the form of the Coot Club, Tom and his friends, who sail the rivers and lakes and protect wildlife, and the "foreigners", who rent boats for holidays and tear up and down regardless of the courtesies of the rules of the road – which are there both for wildlife and other boaters.
She is spending her summer living on board a boat called "Teasel" and has invited the Callum children to join her.
Tom is a leader among some of the local children in the Coot Club, which is a bird watching society (a coot is a duck-like bird who lives and nests on the water).
Tom and his mother have a very sweet but loving relationship.
The relationship of the Walkers to their youngest sister is also very sweet, and they call their mother "The Best of All Natives", natives being the term they use for adults who are not "in" on their imaginative adventures.
It has been an awfully long time since I last read Coot Club but it was just as good as I remembered.As with other books in the Swallows and Amazons series, the story is very different when you read it as an adult, as opposed to being a similar age to the protagonists.
OK so in the Teasel with the Admiral they have a supervisory adult, but there is a lot of time when the children sail on their own, cook, light fires and so on, with only the barest supervision if at all.

My Puffin edition (1973 reprint) isn't listed so I've picked the hardback which would have been the library edition I read first.I always enjoy Coot Club - it is packed with lovable characters, and what's not to like about sailing up and down the Broads hiding from the enemy?
And to give the D's the chance to learn to sail.Of course the other thing with Coot Club is that it's squished between the high water marks of Winter Holiday and Pigeon Post.
As it is, when I finish Coot Club, my first thought isn't 'Oh, that was so good!' It's 'Right - now for Pigeon Post, wheee!' And that's not really being fair to Coot Club.
The friends are kept busy dodging the Hullabaloos, racing against the tides, exploring through the broads and rivers, and protecting the delicate birds' nests that the Hullabaloos are threatening.
Every time I read it, I can barely put it down, because there's always something interesting happening in the plot.I just adore Dick and Dorothea, and the addition of the intrepid Tom makes for an exciting adventure, along with the redoubtable twin girls, Port and Starboard, and a host of young Coot Club members dedicated to protecting the local bird population.
Dick and Dorothea Callum, introduced in Ransome's wonderful Winter Holiday are the link to the Swallows and Amazons but Captain John, Susan, Titty and Roger Walker aren't in this very clever adventure story for younger readers.
Nancy and Peggy (the Amazons) are also not in this story, though their shadow certainly falls across the characterizations of Dick and Dorothea!
I've never set foot in East Anglia but thanks to the wealth of detail Ransome supplies about an area of England very close to his heart, I almost feel a part of this very appealing region and society.
Though this is listed as the fifth book in the Swallows and Amazons series, be advised there aren't actually any Swallows or Amazons in it.
The two new characters, Dick and Dorothea, introduced in the fourth book Winter Holiday are carried over to Coot Club where they have their own adventure on a river with a host of new characters.The nautical jargon is easier to follow in this book so it could be a good starting point.
The kids still have a lot of freedom while the adults are more engaged and available if need be.
Dick and Dorothea are invited to stay on a yacht, the Teasel, with Mrs. Barrable, their mother's former school-mistress.
There is an ecological theme: the children try to protect the coots in their nests from the "Hullabaloos," tourists in their big, noisy, motor boats.
When their friend Tom Dudgeon cuts one of the tourist boats loose, the "Hullabaloos" give chase through the broads.
This is an appealing story, full of the details of sailing and house-boating that makes the reader confident that _she_ could do it too, given half a chance.
Another enjoyable tale in Arthur Ransome's series of adventures of young folks sailing in England in the 1930s.
This book doesn't include the Swallows or the Amazons of the first four books, but rather is the story of Dick and Dorothea, characters introduced in "Winter Holiday", learning to sail in the Norfolk Broads of East Anglia.
The book is packed with sailing details and technical language, all wrapped up in a story so entertaining and well-crafted that it all is vivid even to a non-sailor like me.I looked up the places described in the book on Google Maps - it's very accurate, and I was surprised to find how many of the geographical features are still there, and still named the same.This series of books were my favorite books of sixth grade.
Am working through Arthur Ransomes Swallows and Amazons tales with my daughter - lucky enough to have cobbled together the set from second hand book shops. They are wonderful, beautiful writing, atmosphere and character development and wonderful life for children with either no, or peripheral adults. The notion of relentless narrative is softened by this gentler pace - which still has adventure and action, but connected to real characters that we get to know.Coot Club set around Yarmouth, Norwich in the broads - very atmospheric! Miss the Swallows and Amazons in this one - but still good!Highly recommended!
Maggee was the one who read the SWALLOWS AND AMAZON series aloud to Jesse when she was five and six years old.
Other than hearing the stories second hand, the first time I heard some of the stories was when we saw them in a TV adaptation.
That adaptation was based on Ransome's "Norfolk Broads Adventures" and until I actually read SWALLOWS AND AMAZONS recently I thought all the books were set on the rivers and broads in Norfolk.Like S & W, the young protagonists are perfectly believable and their adventures are a nice blend of perilous and plausible.
COOT CLUB was #16 on our 2016 Read-aloud list
The fifth in the so-called "Swallows and Amazons" series features none of the Swallows or Amazons, but gives Dick and Dorothea, inspired by their winter holiday in the Lake District, a chance to learn to sail on the Norfolk Broads. The book is very much a story of "them and us", natives vs. outsiders, and poses a challenging question as to right and wrong. The end is dramatic but slightly disappointing and frustrating, but overall the adventure, friendship, heroism and a wonderful natural world combine to create a great story.
"This exciting story of the Norfolk Broads is definitely the best Mr. Ransome has written. It is genuine adventure, and yet there is not an incident which could not easily occur sailing about the waters of East Anglia."— Daily Mail"There is satisfactory realism about all that happens to the Coot Club, and the atmosphere and detail of the odd part of England where they navigate are conveyed with a charm and accuracy that only this author perhaps could bring to bear."— Guardian
Swallows and Amazons, Book 5. A gripping adventure story for young sailors that takes place in the Norfolk Broads of England. Maps follow the progression of the Teasel as her young crew sails her from Wroxham through Yarmouth to Beccles. Tides, storms, fog, and nasty tourists are some of the challenges the crew faces. Even William the pug has a chance to prove that he is a hero. Readers do not need to read the previous four titles to enjoy this one.
I just like this series. And this one has a bunch about protecting birds and sailing on rivers and mudflats that are affected by tides. I love that kind of detail. I also love the scene where the two boats are stranded and their main concern is to find a way to make and share tea.There is a fair amount of 'everything turns out all right in the end" to each book but so far I am enjoying that. It's my second time reading the series and I am well content. Ready for the next one!
I had thought I would give this book four stars because there's nary a Swallow nor an Amazon in it, but Port & Starboard and the Death and Glories make this thoroughly worthy of being a Swallows and Amazons tale. I understand why this story is some people's favorite in the whole series. It's a marvellous feel-good adventure (with just the right amount of danger) with great characters and (as always) beautifully described settings. Wonderful. Hated to turn the last page.
