https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111789.Rosy_Is_My_Relative
This was laugh out loud hilarious! I've read it a number of times. The narrator inherits an elephant to his dismay. Rosy, the elephant, among other interesting traits, has a distinct fondness for alcohol, and had the response you'd expect to the drink. How do you deal with a drunkard elephant? Read this and find out!4/20/17 It is worth adding that the trial scene, even if likely 100+ years ago, seem as though they could still be possible today in many ways! The defense attorney's comments have a real bite to them.
He gets into one scrape after another and finally is charged in court for (mainly her) misdeeds.
This is a book you could read to your children or your grandmother.
Mainly though I want to express my appreciation for the string of librarians who did NOT "withdraw" this book and toss it on the book sale table.
It pains me that so many good books disappear when they haven't been checked out for a while.
This book (which I requested from my local library) has an interesting history.
Published in 1968, it was first at the Library of Congress.
If ever you are down in the dumps and want to get away from it all, just pick up this instant pep_me-up book.f whether this is a true life story or fancied imagination just climb on the roguish Rosy and hold on tight as she trots here way into drunken shenanigans in this Laugh Riot. And if you think your drunk relative is funny then read Rosy for size. Alert: have a wad and more of tissues on you coz Rosy will have you wailing with laughter.
I wrote my review when the rest of my family was commenting on this book, but goodreads decided not to save it, so im writing it again.My bestest memories of this book are not of reading it upside down on my bed and dying of laughter. they are of having choice portions of the book read out to me by ambica.i dont know if she remembers, but i really really looked forward to the book reading sessions (which also included wodehouse), and died much more pleasurable deaths during them.
The author claims that the events in this book happened are pretty close to what actually happened. I have read his book aloud to others more than I have read it to myself. This is one of the most fun book to read that I have ever found. Only Dickens came up with more strange and fascinating characters and he took a dozen books and 10,000 pages to do it.
I loved this book when I was a teenager, and I'm delighted to find I still love it now. It's a joyful romp of a comic novel set in late Victorian England, featuring the adventures of Adrian Rookwhistle, a hapless grocery clerk, and his frequently-inebriated elephant, Rosy.It's a warm and funny book, and would be great to read on a plane when you're feeling a bit tired and grumpy. It also has a great supporting cast of travelling actors, white witches, stentorious lawyers, and other eccentrics.
A charming book! Just the antidote to real life. I laughed out loud repeatedly -- Durrell creates the most eccentric characters and paints vivid images that really come alive. I was right there as Rosy the elephant repeatedly left devastation and chaos in her considerable wake. This would be an awesome book to read aloud with kids. Just the names of the characters invoke silliness: Misters Filagree, Clattercup & Pucklehammer and of course Lord and Lady Fenneltree. The plot is all quite predictable and happily so. Such fun!
This is another memorable book which made me think how much fun it will be to have an elephant as a pet!
The story is filled with memorable moments( funny as well as touching) and memorable characters( unique in every which way).
Certainly there is no shortage of adventure around as the story progresses!
No lack of laughs, either - this is one of those books which you have to avoid reading in public unless you want to make a spectacle of yourself howling with laughter with people around you!
And do keep in mind that the risk of trying for an elephant as a Pet is real high after you read it!!
This is a very funny little book published in 1968 about the adventures of a shy young Englishman who inherits an elephant with a taste for liquor. It was probably written for about 6th to 8th graders, but I found it delightful, too. This is a plug for visiting your local library. I picked up this book from the discard/sale shelves because it had a cute picture on the cover (my copy was a published-in-the-UK version). What a pleasant surprise!
A fun romp. Adrian inherits an elephant, but what is he to do with an elephant in his rooms in the city? He decides to walk his elephant to the coast, where he hopes he can sell her to a circus. Hijinks, hilarity and romance ensue. I particularly enjoyed the last part with his lawyer and in the courtroom.
Příběh plný báječného, originálního a nenásilného humoru. Ostatně stejně jako ostatní Durrellovo dílo.Doufám že jednou také zdědím slona. :)
Adrian inherits his Uncle's Elephant, with resulting adventures. Had me laughing out loud.
Enjoyed this book a lot. Made me laugh so much.
Durrell's first novel is not too bad. A man inherits an elephant and they go on a road trip. At times it is sweet sometimes it drags a bit but it is ok.
The best book that I read as a child
So when I saw this much-thumbed copy of Gerald Durell's first novel at a second-hand store, I picked it up without so much as glancing at the blurb.
I had to force myself to read the novel - mainly because it was short but also because I felt guilty about abandoning the novel by an author whose other works I loved.Keep in mind that this is a children's book (I was unaware of that until I started reading); and this is also Durell's first novel.
With these two caveats, I think this can be a light, enjoyable read for those who have the appropriate expectations from this book.Would I still pick up another old copy of Gerald Durell's works without even glancing at the blurb.
Любая хорошая история должна быть изложена на бумаге. И любая плохая история должна быть изложена тоже. Потребуется опытный писатель, для которого слово «нарратив» не является пустым звуком. Тогда повествование заиграет яркими красками, поскольку ложка правды дополняется бочкой вымысла. Изменению подвергнется суть всей истории, ведь читателю требуется прежде развлечение, а уже после пища для размышлений. Поэтому стоит начать с чего-нибудь привлекающего внимание: например, со слонихи — любительницы пропустить кружечку пива. А после дополнить путешествием куда-нибудь, чтобы было увлекательно. И только потом открыть читателю реальную сторону действительности, согласно которой окажется, что животное-уничтожитель не может быть отрицательным персонажем.(c) Trounin
Fantastic, one of my favourite books, often I return to this book to re-read, as I find it very funny! A brilliant story and full of humour and a book that you read but can see the characters in your head while reading. It is a pity that Gerald Durrell didn't get to write more novels, but he did write many stories of his adventures while collecting animals from around the world. Of which I have many of them, and they all have his sense of humour. Brilliant!
I had watched the PBS series "Durrells in Corfu" and enjoyed it, so I was intrigued enough to pick up this book. I don't think I have ever laughed so much while reading a book. Picturing some of the situations Rosy gets herself into was too much. There is also a short biography of the author, with photos, at the end. I recommend this book to all. I will be reading more by Gerald Durrell.
A Young Man and An Elephant With A Taste For The Hard StuffThis is a cute, silly story of a young, somewhat stuffy Englishman who inherits an elephant with a drinking problem from an uncle he didn't know very well. Rosy is the elephant's name, and she leads him on a merry chase around the countryside as he tries to find a place to stash her.
What other fantastical adventures might Adrian have with his elephant Rosy? None, as they have certainly all been covered. Combine an elephant with alcohol and mayhem is certain to ensue. The bonus to reading such an old-fashioned book is the peek into previous cultural norms.
Very fun light readDelightful story - funny and diverting. Extremely refreshing (no sex, murders, vampires or swearing...) and well-written. Highly recommend. A very colorful tale...
Such a personal favourite, also in the origin of my liking of British culture. Read it when I was like 13 or something, after having some doubts I could like it, but in the end enjoying it thoroughly. A sweet love story as well. Took the pleasure of re-reading as an adult
Unlike the other books I have read from Gerald Durrell this is an amusing novel, which I enjoyed very much as a teenager. It is about a boy travelling with his elephant and the trouble Rosie (the elephant) gets them into.
Whale.....we elephant of a taleOnce again we are treated to the wonderful world of Mr Durrell. A host of characters and a small zoo will bring smiles and laughter. Rosy is the lovable heroine and one imagines Adrian as Gerald Durrell...enjoy!
I read this in one day. This utterly charming humerous romp by the great naturalist, Gerald Durrell, is a happy discovery. It celebrates a magnificent creature and the beauty of human eccentricities.
I remember reading this and feeling so inspired that I proceeded to get the highest mark in class on a poem about an elephant. Ridiculous situations, lovable imperfect characters, amazing Durrell writing.
This book is very very funny. The Durrell,s of Corfu, One of my favorite shows on PBS is based on a autobiography By George Durrell. This book is also written by George Durrell who claimed these events to be almost all true. I want to read more of his work.
Look for the title of this book in the dictionary under whimsical. A young man and his alcoholic elephant--where else would they end up but the courtroom. You will chuckle all the way through. This would make a great comedy movie.
Rosy is My Relative is an easy delightful read. A jolly story.
