https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45961.Soul_Mountain
Some laureates had been favourites for decades before I started the project, others were completely new to me, and some were even hard to find in bookstores.After I had finished Gao Xingjian's Soul Mountain, I thought I had an answer to the question:It made me move into unknown territories, discovering elements of literature that enriched me in a surprising way, and it challenged my comfort zone by inviting me to embark on a spiritual journey in China.

This is barely a book. It's the at once epic and intimate journey of one man, told in different persons and with feelings sometimes instead of words (somehow), almost miraculously bound together and made tangible.I am prone to exaggeration. But I have such specific remembrances--memories of feelings and moments of hyper-awareness--tied to this book.... For all the incredible books I have come across so far, NONE of them gave me what this book did. None of them made me so viscerally part of their story.
A powerful spiritual experience, coming from an author still alive!!I was pleasantly surprised to find out that the author took refuge in France, was living in an inner city project housing at the time he got the Nobel Prize. A deeply enriching story of his journey, which is at the same time entertaining. A powerful combination of depth and lightness. I haven't come across a chronicle of journey like this for a long time. It fits so well with his Nobel Prize speech, in wisdom and modesty.
25th of February 2013. I cannot help, but to refer these news:"Chinese Officials Admit 'Cancer Villages' Due To Pollution Exist"*.http://www.ibtimes.com/chinese-offici... (Buddha Sakyamuni and Mahakayapa)Preamble Lingshaw means Soul Mountain. In this book there's an enlightening preface by Noël Dutrait referring that, in China, "in the end of the 1970's there was a timid political liberalization", therefore allowing writers not to serve the (communist) party. Gao Xingjian is a writer and painter
(by painter Bada Shanren; 1625-1705)Gao said that "painting starts where words cannot go"; but while reading this book I had this great feeling I was viewing terrifically beautiful landscapes....of forests and mountains and ...of soul's....It's a different style of writing: Gao's quite good enabling images through words.
(by painter Gong Xian; 1660-1700)The book's story is auto-biographical especially in what concerns the "diagnosed terminal cancer" and, in general, the China hinterland tour (5 months).The StoryThe main character of the story is a matured man called Li.He lived a lot of time in the city.We found him with a back pack on a 12 hours bus ride...on his way to visit his natal land...in South China.
I could have enjoyed this book very much. Spiritual journeys, fragmented writing style, interlocking narratives, historical references and the unfolding changes of history. Unfortunately, the more I know about Chinese, the more I think this translation could have used a bit of work. There are references to 'father' here which I think could be 老子, which refers to Laozi, author of the Dao De Jing. I even recognized a few mangled 成语, or idiomatic expressions. One of these days I may have to read the original, and return closer to 灵山 once again.
Hay là câu chuyện đồng thoại?” [1] Đọc bài này, không khỏi giật mình nghĩ, nếu người thầy giáo trung học của họ Cao cũng theo thói thường tình, chấm bài theo đáp án sẵn có mà cho Cao điểm thấp hay phê phán đả đảo Cao thì liệu Cao còn cảm hứng để sau này tiếp tục viết, “đem bản thảo giấu vào trong hũ, chôn xuống đất” không?
Gần đây, người ta thường nhắc tới các tiểu thuyết hậu hiện đại, nhưng trong số ít ỏi mà tôi được đọc thì có lẽ Đời nhẹ khôn kham (The Unbearable Lightness of Being) của Kundera và Linh sơn của Cao Hành Kiện là hai tác phẩm mẫu mực, để lại ấn tượng nhiều hơn cả.
This book is admittedly a bit challenging—its structure is unconventional, folk tales mingle with personal history, and it isn't bound so much by a plot as by a pervading spirit of search.
But what a beautiful search it is.
In seeking out a mountain that may or may not exist, Xingjian takes the reader on a journey of self-discovery that isn't marked so much by what it reveals, as by what remains hidden and perfectly unknown.
The last page is perhaps my favorite in literature—a perfect silence, enshrouded in snow, in which the divine can appear everywhere and in everything .
Really a lovely book, but not an easy one.
I’d like to start with a view that dissents with those of some other reviewers, who (in praise, often) claim that this book works outside the rules of fiction, or is unlike all other books, or isn’t even a novel.
Of course it is a novel, and a hyperliterary one at that–and it operates within structures of fictional form that are common (even commonplace) in the twentieth century, not to mention in earlier works that share some of its more astonishing features (such as Don Quixote).
I promise that being able to follow the narrator’s travels will increase your reading pleasure.Additional thoughts here:http://alisonkinney.com/category/gao-...Thanks!
The author frequently refers to China's many Dynastys and The Culturol Revolution ( a very sad time for the people of China and their culture.
) Perhaps if I was more familiar with the history of China and the culture I may have enjoyed the book.Perhaps something was lost in translation ?
There is no continuous story line and what little story there is seems to be scattered through the book in no aparent order of sequence.
Maybe I'm an idiot ( and that is quit possible ) the book made absolutly no sense.
If you like that chapter and it makes sense to you, by all means read the book.
The sum total is to suggest the questions “who have I been?” and more pointedly “who am I?” questions we all find ourselves asking at some point, but not to the extent and depth Gao does.Thus with The Other and Encounter as its narrative vehicle, Soul Mountain the book itself is less an edifice itself, (hard to scale, vast, unforgiving – the 500 pages suggesting a tiring read) than a lacquerware cabinet of curios: each chapter captures the attention.
And, more importantly, as Gao makes us see, it is the mountain of the soul, the enduring, perduring self, that will forever deny conquering – not that it will stop us from trying to scale it....
Tôi không có tí kiến thức nào về các lý thuyết văn chương, chứ đừng nói tới việc định tranh cãi xem thủ pháp nghệ thuật, hình thức tác phẩm của Cao Hành Kiện trong Linh Sơn ra làm sao.
Nó tựa như một chuyến du hành vô tận, tìm mãi tìm mãi, thấy đủ thứ, nhưng chẳng thấy hết, và suy cho cùng ngẫm lại thì đã thấy cái gì?
Nói thế nào nhỉ, nó như là một sự chạy trốn.
Bởi cái cuộc sống mà tác giả và nhân vật trong tác phẩm muốn chạy trốn khỏi cứ đeo bám, và xâm chiếm cái thế giới còn nhiều phần hoang dã kia.
In the beginning the book seemed very promising but as I continued it read more and more like the recounting of a long and stupid dream.Xingjian's preoccupation with himself reaches the point that when one character has the temerity to impose on his splendid isolation with a story of her own suffering it makes him physically ill.
There were interesting parts in the book, yes, but they all seemed to be used solely as backdrops to his endless self-adoration.I realise the book is meant to be a meditation on the self and that is well and good but the impression it leaves me with is a man so enraptured by himself that he thinks every slightest creative whim of his own and every particular about his life has immediate significance and importance to the reader.His treatment of women is also off somehow.
As a Chinese myself, if I understand Gao correctly, the notion of the transcendence is much like this a mixture of Taoism and Buddhism with the primitive experiences of the local people in relation to the world, the supernatural phenomena and legends in particular, a mixture that has not been largely emasculated and contaminated by the ugliness, monotony, and boredom of a naturalistic mentality, which according to the character himself, is utter unlivable and destructive to human spirit.
I feel decidedly guilty and 'unliterary' giving a negative review of this book, but it just was not for me. It's a meditation on identity, and his writing is certainly innovative and probably the best way to explore the subject, but it made the book a long slog for me. The fact that someone talks about a woman being raped nearly every chapter (of which there are 80) was also something that made this read a difficult one for me. Glad I read it, glad it's over.
يتعمق الكاتب كثيراً في الذات الإنسانية، وفي تشابه الأمكنة والأزمنة التي تحكي الروايات المتشابهة للحاضر والمستقبل، حيوات كثيرة تمر على القاريء من شأنها أن تتكرر وتتطور، وفي كل مرة يعاد البحث عن الذات في تفاصيل كلاسيكية، واقعية، خيالية أوحتى سريالية، قراءات متعددة، صور تمزج بين التاريخ والأسطورة، تكرار الحدث الزمني، والتشابه غير المرئي بين الفصول، يترك غاو شينجيان القاريء مع نفسه يتحسسان التحولات بين الفصول الشبيهة بالمشاهد المسرحية أو اللوحات المختلفة، والمتنوعة بتنوع لوحات الفن التشكيلينعم.... الرواية سميكة وعميقة وذات دلالات كبيرة، لكنها تحتاج منك صبراً وانتظاراً
There is much to be awed by--fables, stories-within-stories, heartbreaking recollections of the Cultural Revolution--but it was the lengthy passages about China's mountains, forests and (increasingly polluted) rivers that kept me reading more than anything else.
I would cite a passage or two to help sell this book, but I've already lent it out..!
Here's the basic idea behind it's wacky narration: So, the story is told by "I" (being the author), who is cognizant of the need for companionship while traveling across China (!), but he's alone, so he creates "you" for company.
Context is important.
I found a stack of copies of this novel remaindered.
I mailed one to my wife and gave the others way.
I then read this in tandem with a friend who was being chucked out of his house.
He was leaving his wife, though sooner than he expected, obviously.
I then began dogpaddling through this morass of a novel rife with nature and strange sex.
I don't think my friend was touched either.A month later while on the tube in London I saw someone reading it.
Maybe my reluctance to do so stemmed from an awareness of context.
I was both excited by the proposition of a Chinese Nobel laureate and fascinated by Xingjian's personal trials when I chose to read his semi-autobiographical novel.
As a pretext, I knew that Xingjian had dealt with being misdiagnosed with terminal cancer and gone soul searching through provincial China before publishing this work for which he was exiled from China and for which the Chinese government banned the Nobel Prize in Literature.Despite my initial excitement, I'll admit to having been disappointed by the book.
Of course, the author retorts, saying that he writes for his self-amusement (which does not give a case for other people to read it) and questions what fiction itself is.
Exceptional. Beautifully done, peaceful and eternally grounded. Just to add there is violence in the book but the energy around the whole book is what I described.
Beautiful writing, but I never could get very involved in the stories, perhaps due to the constant change in perspective in the narration.
No way. There are a few interesting anecdotes, but this is not a novel: it is utterly devoid of shape or meaning; there's not a blinking thing I can get behind or grab hold of to push myself past the 23% mark, which has taken me three months to get to. No way. I am out of here. Yay!
To quote Wikipedia “Whether it works or not, it (Soul Mountain) is a rich fictional language filled with vernacular speeches and elegant 文言 (classical) formulations as well as dialects, thus constituting a "heteroglossic" tapestry of sounds and rhythms that can indeed be read aloud (as Gao himself has done in his public readings).” Leo Lee Ou-fan, writer.
The clue to this book, in my view, was in chapter 72 when Gao discusses the organization of his work that you are reading.
Part autobiographical novel, part episodic travelogue, part dream narrative, this is a book that ultimately defies accurate description (or at least deserves a better reviewer than I...), in which all of the elements cohere into one of the most unusual and profound of reading experiences for the patient reader.
This is much more obvious and pronounced in this book, however, as Gao Xingjian experiments with his use of pronouns.
This shifting of perspective is at times disorienting, but the use of the second-person point of view undeniably makes for a highly engaging and oneiric experience (for this reader, at least).
Thus, if my quest is to explore Chinese fiction before my move, this is an obvious pick.In the early 1980s Gao -- who was already a semi-renowned literary figure and theater director in the underground art scene in Communist China -- was diagnosed with terminal cancer and given six months to live.
Soul Mountain emerged from that journey as a scattershot literary travelogue and hazy exploration of Gao's various ideas of self.This is high end stuff; the Nobel prize should be evidence enough for that.
Soul Mountain is a profoundly amazing work.
If not, well, you may just want to find another book.
In almost every chapter, the topic, environment, and speaker switch off.
My professor literally told us: “it doesn’t matter where you start reading it, you could read from the beginning to the end or from the end to the beginning, either way you still have the same experience.”  However, there must be a reason why this book was written like this and why the Nobel people love it so much.
In a supremely condensed and unworthy explanation: it’s because Gao Xingjian wants to show Chinese modernity’s limitations on society and to oppose rationalism.
I have saved several books to read during my retirement and Soul Mountain is one of them.
I love reading and I have read books from many cultures, which, generally, read differently from those by American authors.
So, I felt comfortable starting this novel.
However, after reading/skimming nearly 250 pages and not being able to "get into it," I finally put it down and started reading reviews.
Several reviews recommended reading the short chapter #72 stating that if you enjoyed that chapter, you would enjoy the book.
Couldn't make it through the entire 3.5 pages.
Several months ago, I read a collection of Gao's stories and was duly impressed.
Impressed enough to return to the novel that won him the Nobel.Dang!It's long and dense and packed with ideas, characters, gorgeous imagery.
Start by thinking of a novel by Thomas Pynchon or some other grand-postmodern poobah.
Now transpose the setting and cultural background to China, and replace the pop culture references with fragments of folklore, Taoist belief, tribal ritual, and memories of the Cultural Revolution.
Keep the play with personal identity, the insanity of modern society, and the odd sexual couplings.
Read and enjoy.
Gần đây, người ta thường nhắc tới các tiểu thuyết hậu hiện đại, nhưng trong số ít ỏi mà bạn đọc thì có lẽ “Đời nhẹ khôn kham” của Kundera và “Linh Sơn” của Cao Hành Kiện là hai tác phẩm mẫu mực, để lại ấn tượng cho bạn nhiều hơn cả.Với Linh Sơn, bạn còn tìm thấy được một vẻ đẹp khó tả được của thiên nhiên, của nền văn hóa Trung Hoa giàu có, của lịch sử một nước Trung Hoa bạo liệt.
Profonda è la notte, tranquilla è la gente, brilla la luna, rare le stelle, a intonare il canto ci prepariamo.Non so proprio come definire quest'opera...
Certo, inizialmente, quando apri il libro e vedi che ci sono ben 650 pagina rimani un attimo di sasso, ma quando ti addentri nella lettura non riesci più a smettere!
Inizio citando un canto di un boscaiolo di Badong: "Profonda è la notte, tranquilla è la gente, brilla la luna, rare le stelle, a intonare il canto ci prepariamo.
Un'ultima citazione: "L'io nel tu non è altro che il riflesso nello specchio, l'immagine capovolta del fiore nell'acqua.
Innamorato invano dell'immagine, non farai che compatirti."
