https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2065038.The_Three_Railway_Engines
The Reverend Wilbert Awdry's Thomas the Tank Engine series began here with a story not about Thomas, but about three engines named Edward, Gordon, and Henry that would establish their part as a strong supporting cast within the upcoming stories involving the trains and other vehicles that inhabit the Island of Sodor.
Edward (the blue engine) is an eager train that is not as big as the others, but has a great deal of confidence to make up for it, but at the same time a sense of modesty that does not turn his confidence into a larger ego the way that Henry is known to develop.
Thomas the Tank Engine was my life when I was a kidlet. And I'm p sure the story of Henry being bricked up in a tunnel gave me my abandonment issues.
Edward is recruited to help Gordon when he complains about his heavy trucks.
With Edward's help pushing Gordon is able to reach the top of the hill.
Henry is so stubborn about coming out of the tunnel, that the train director instructs his men to seal the tunnel and leave him there.
Edward and Gordon tease Henry about his dilemma as they chug past the tunnel on their rail adventures.
When Gordon bursts a safety valve while showing off, Edward is called to pull Gordon's heavy cars.
Gordon and Edward are glad to have Henry back in service again, and they learn to work together.
Ok stories that owe a lot to The Little Engine That Could, even down to the repetitive phrases from the trains. Art is pretty good.
Thomas only appeared in stories after Rev. W Awdry had made a wooden model of a tank engine for Christopher and it had a 1 painted on its side.
The rest of the Railway Series is in my honest opinion so much better than this one as Rev. Awdry did his research to make his stories interesting for parents to read and children to enjoy whilst still being true to life incidents.
But in terms of content, it's pretty similar to Thomas the Tank Engine, so why have both on the list?
The Thomas book features Thomas in all the stories.
This book features different engines.
It's even more obviously influenced by The Little Engine That Could than the Thomas stories are.
When one rather vain train gets his come-uppance, the story ends with an intrusive narrator (who's never popped up before!) declaring 'But I think he deserved it, don't you?'So yes, not as good as the Thomas book.
The stories were also a bit fragmented, whereas the Thomas ones all hung together more.
This is a reprint of the original, and measures 10 x 14 cm - just the right size for little hands. The tiny watercolour illustrations are lovely, my favourite feature. This is the first of the series, ever, and the trains don't have their numbers yet - an interesting detail my 3 year old pointed out. Gordon, Edward, and Henry are introduced, and although the plotline is tighter and more logical than in current Thomas stories, Gordon's personality is nasty. The Thomas empire remains true to the original in this regard! We censor as we read aloud.
This is another childhood favorite of mine it remineds me of the little engine who could, since Edward who was a little engine was able to push Gordan the big engine and his train up the hill when Gorden couldn't pull it himself.
I've had this on my list of betterment as I was drawn to the title, because it reminded me of Thomas the Tank Engine...then realized it obviously is part of that wonderful series! So I've been happily re-reading these lovely books.
A nice introduction to the railway engines. No Thomas in this but I quite like Edward who is in every short story. Good use is made of the motion of steam trains when writing what the engines say, you can just hear it coming from them.
My son is utterly obsessed with Thomas the Train and he loves to read. I'd love to read the classic stories to him. We're still in the board book stage, but this book is definitely in my future.
If you want to get your kid on the right track to reading, this is the book for you. The stories, the characters, and the illustrations are still entertaining to me years later... and I'm almost 20!
The art work and the story lines behind these stories amaze me. They are truly well imagined, well thought out, and a must for any child with a love for trains.
I want to read it
I like the videos...
(Read with little sister as part of the "1,001 Children's Books To Read")I liked how even though Edward was a small engine, he was able to help and befriend the big engines.
When Henry won't come out of a tunnel for fear of messing up his paint . . . they shut him up in the tunnel!Funny to read these 1st three stories (no Thomas yet), about Gordon, Henry, & Edward.
Toby loves it more than I.
A timeless childhood favorite I still cherish today
I want to see this english character.
