https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/948395.The_American_Language
I've wanted to read this for awhile, and eventually decided to pick it up during my recent  Dresden Files  sprint, to cleanse the palate between Harry Dresden's various lengthy and often amusing beat-downs. It took me awhile to finish, but honestly not as long as I thought it would, which is perhaps a testament to Mencken's ability to compellingly weave a tale about something as simultaneously ordinary and urbane as the everyday language in which we speak.The main body of the book can be split i
Mencken very effectively shows how there mere fact of arriving in America forced explorers and settlers to begin developing their own language to describe the new plants, animals, landscapes and peoples they encountered.
Four years later, in William Strachey's "Historie of Trevaile Into Virginia Britannia" it became an aracoune, "much like a badger," and by 1624 Smith had made it a rarowcun in his "Virginia." It was not until 1672 that it emerged as the raccoon we know today.Mencken doesn't only focus how new words come into the language.
Likewise, contact with the various explorers, settlers and later immigrants brought new words and phrases into the language.
I read this mostly because H.L.Mencken is a master of language. I appreciate his ability to turn a phrase, his high intelligence, humour and majestic scorn... But this book is also the fruit of much research and so, even a century after it was published, is interesting for its subject matter. Being antipodean and therefore having developed a tri-lingual familiarity with English, I was fascinated and delightfully amazed at what time and geography have done to the mother tongue.
Mencken offers a detailed account of the history of the emergence of what he calls the American language from the colonial period until the first half of the twentieth century.
The pedagogues in general have taught a version of English far-removed from what is spoken by the everyday people; they in addition to Americans of social pretentious generally defer to British authority in terms of usage.
Mencken writes in the tradition of Noah Webster, who sought to differentiate British and American English in his American Dictionary of the English Language.
It is also interesting to read some of the established and accepted slanguage we use today rated as new and even "racy", and conversely, read similar words and phrases considered outre then that are still--outre, if not forgotten.Because of its age and weightiness, this book is better read as a historical document, not a live discussion of language.
No, not a dry read at all!
Despite the 1930's publication, it's fascinating to read the opinions of the transformation of the English language on American soil...and its effects on the global populate via 2008.
The best part was sounding out the words with their regional dialect.Did you know that "yes, siree!" came from the Irish CCD "Yes, certainly"?I read this after hearing David Milch describe the writing on HBO's Deadwood.
He's such an amazing individual, I love to hear him talk about anything; his insight on human nature is spot on.Maybe I'll get around to reading the two additional companions at about 800 each!
This book was an eye-opener for me. It was fascinating to read about the evolution of the English language from the Revolutionary War to the 1930s. The author is old-school witty and clearly cares a lot about communication and language.Since reading this book, I've been trying to add some words to my vocabulary. Words like exluncticate, absquatulate, go-ahead-ativeness...This is a fun book.
This is simply an essential book for anyone who wants to know how and why the American version of English developed the way it did. Mencken did a tremendous amount of scholarship here, but he doesn't lose his irascible sense of humor and cynicism. Note to "Deadwood" fans: the creators relied heavily on this work when crafting their characters' speech patterns.
His premise is that the English spoken by the English differs significantly enough from that spoken by United States residents and that they are, in fact, two very different languages spoken by two very different cultures.This book's 1921 publication date underlines the changing nature of language.
An interesting "philological" (Mencken's word of choice, but I suppose "linguistic" would be more apposite today) study of American English.
("Elsewhere" to Mencken meant Great Britain exclusively.) This shows how essential it is to consult philological accounts from different periods when studying the history of a language.Other things that surprised me is the sheer number of American innovations that are so common today in English everywhere that it never occurs to you that they might have been Americanisms.
Mencken combines his own knowledge of etymology and philology with a huge array of sources in order to cover the rather large question of how the American language evolved into its then-current state.He begins by comparing British English (which he calls plain “English” throughout) and American English (which he calls “American”) in terms of words and phrases.
What I liked was that he strove throughout to reflect the actual language spoken, rather than just formal written language, though he did use the latter to prove when words and phrases had passed into the “accepted” lexicon.My favourite part was the historical section, which traced changes in the language from the first settlers onward.

Initially, many native English people were quite against the so-called vulgarisms of early Americans, but after a time, they came into wide acceptance and use even by purists.
Mostly this happened after "talkies" came over to England.It includes a study of regional dialects and other things as well.
So obviously a great deal of evolution has gone on with the English language since it is a living creature, getting expanded all the time.In any case, it is a great book, and even though it is quite scholarly and dry, I wasn't really bored with learning where OK comes from or anything like that.
If you are interested in linguistics or etymology then this book and its sequels are must reads. The author of this 700 page book is amazing (Supplement 1 is also 700 pages). However, I could not get past page 253. I looked for this book because Richard Rodriguez, the author, thought that this was a great history book and it is. I even bought it together with Supplement 1. However it is really slow, too slow. Sort of like reading logarithmic tables. But it will stay in my library just in case.
I really enjoyed reading H.L. Mencken. I might not agree with what he has to say, but I recognize that he was a man of his time. However, Mencken did say things in such an interesting way. I am about to launch into Mencken's book "In Defense of Women." As his misogynistic chatter would indicate, he probably isn't going to be in support of feminist goals. But, he will say it in such an interesting way.
I had thought that Mencken was simply a humorous curmudgeon, but this book reveals that he was in fact a scholar with the heart of a lexicographer. Ultimately, however, the book could not hold my interest beyond about a third of it. It began to read like a laundry list of differences between the English and American languages. I could recommend this book for dilatory browsing, but not for a cover-to-cover page-turner.
A fascinating study of the English and American languages. Mencken's philosophy of language and its teaching was quite eye-opening, especially for a former English teacher, but this is NOT for the faint of heart. You must have a real interest in the structure of language to even attempt this. It's a textbook, really; one that feels as if I began reading in 1978.
A rollicking romp through the business of the English language. I admit that I skimmed through the chapters on speech and proper names out of sheer laziness on my part. The last chapter should be read by all. There are many excellent observations: "rubberneck is almost a complete treatise on American psychology" (p. 92). Footnote 2 on page 559.
I expected much more out of this book than what I got. While regretfully I am not a student of other languages, I nonetheless have a deep appreciation for the nuances of the English langauge and its byproduct - the American lanaguage. Mencken research is exemplary, but, in the end, the book read too much like a dictionary.
It was definitely dense, but I'm glad I read it! It's a really interesting look into Americanisms and both their promotion and the struggle against them. It's of course outdated and I found myself disagreeing with some of what Mencken says, but overall very interesting. I'd recommend this for anyone interested in language.
So far this is great, though I can't take a lot in one sitting. But if you want to hear how snippy Brits got over American usage (esp. Charles Dickens when it comes to the word "fix"), by all means take a look.
I can't imagine a more thorough study of English as we Americans speak it, but it is sadly very out of date (1919). I'd like to see a much more recent study. He compares American and British English very well, however. And, except for its outdatedness, is very interesting.
This book may not be strictly academic, but it lists numerous facts of the American English. This book also may seem dated, but it was still interesting to read it as to understand the language of the 1930s.
A classic treatment by a classic author. This book will reward repeated visits by anyone interested in the development and history of English, especially as use in the U.S.
A great book and fun read. Cranky opinions appear at random in between long passages with fascinating scholarship.
Indispensable, and like everything Mencken, hugely entertaining.They don't make auto-didacts like HLM these days.
A lot of interesting stuff about words.
So far, interesting. He is actually defending our language. historical
The autodidact Mencken wrote this well-researched and idiosyncratic account on how the American English language evolved separately from its roots in Britain.
...
I don't know if I've read anything with a clearer understanding of the language of the U.S. as informative and enjoyable to read.
