https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9835731-the-hypnotist
This pushes the strained marriage of Bark and his wife Simone to the breaking point and also further alienates their son Benjamin who suffers from a rare blood disease.Crime thrillers and realistic police procedures don’t always mix, but they should usually have at least a nodding acquaintance.
Later after they’ve decided the killer wasn’t involved, Erik basically has to beg Linna to get involved in the search for his son because they act like Benjamin just ran away even though Simone witnessed him being taken from the house, and they have lab tests showing that a powerful drug was used on her.
(B+) 76% | GoodNotes: Spends a lot of time building up elaborate red herrings; successor developments being progressively less compelling.
Detective Joona Linna was certain that the boy would be able to provide valuable information, possibly even identify the killerBut if the other circumstances had not been so exceptional, it would never even have occurred to anyone to turn to a hypnotist.”
”The past isn’t dead, it isn’t even past.”---William FaulknerI’m not going to tell you anymore because this is such a plot based book, but I will say, when I was down to the last 100 pages, I didn’t stop until I turned the last page moments before the grandfather clock chimed twelve times.
There were all the comparisons to Stieg Larsson and how Lars Kepler was going to be the next biggest thing since the invention of Swedish meatballs.
But it pulled me out of the story a number of times, as I was focusing on the tense instead.2) There were over 100 chapters, which I'm totally okay with.
I think it's the same day, but I better flip back a chapter and double-check." This could have easily been avoided by only putting the header when the date and/or time was different than the previous chapter.3) The flashback to the period ten years earlier was awkwardly inserted in the middle of a scene, went on continuously for over 100 pages, and then spit right back out into that same scene.
I suppose I should say this is a spoiler alert.
I continue to be amazed by people's reviews.
People already know what the book is about.
Personal Reviews should tell what the reader thought.
This is an amazingly hyped book.
I would suppose that every publishing company wants to discover the next Steig Larrsen.
First you need to be able to write well.
Next you need to be able to create believable characters and give them a substantial plot.
For a hyped and well reviewed book, this is possibly one of the worst books I have ever read.
Some of these vicious, brutal acts really have nothing to do with the story, which brings me to....There are too many unexplained little events, some of which are quite gruesome, that remain completely unexplained and unresolved and left this reader wondering what they were doing in the story in the first place.Even what starts out as being the crime of focus in this story is left unattended and for me at least, unresolved part way through the book.I could not relate in any way to the relationship between the hypnotist and his wife.I figured out the mystery well before I should have.The story felt choppy and events did not flow very well, especially between the past and the presentDespite all of the above the story was a good one and at least one of the characters was wrought well enough to remember.
(PLOT SPOILERS in paragraph 1)I have never read a book with such a strong start.
From the very first page I was convinced the story had a carefully structured premise and then somewhere in the middle...KABOOM!!!
The gruesome scenes with Josef were the ones which gave me the creeps so I was disappointed to find that after a certain point in our story there is no more Josef...
Finding a family brutally murdered and trying to solve the crime was the reason I bought the book in the first place.
This is the main reason I intend to read another book from the Joona Linna series.
"I'm not usually wrong and I believe we're going to find your son." Tell me, Joona, do you ever tell someone, "I'm not usually wrong & I think your son is long gone"?).
And that other crazy lady who kept a little boy locked in a cage in her basement & tried to kill herself in front of me & later sued me, saying that I drove her mad with hypnosis.
(view spoiler)[Some poor artist guy seems to exist only to do it with Simone & then get killed.
This book is laughably and infuriatingly terrible.
It begins with the detective as seemingly the main character with a dark event in his past, which, unless I missed it, IS NEVER EXPLAINED.
It is the only serial killer book I've ever read in which the story of the serial killer is a SUBPLOT.
The serial killer subplot and the main,abduction related plot are really only tangentially connected in that one is the impetus for the other.
They get progressively more ridiculous as the series goes on, as these things do, but they have at their heart a really interesting and sympathetic (if flawed) main character and interesting supporting players.
I have never read such an amazing twisting novel.There are not words to express how super this book was.I can only give praise to the authors.Erik Maria Bark, talented doctor whose specialty is the treatment of seriously traumatized persons, formerly also with hypnotize, is called to Karolinska hospital, where a 15-year-old boy lies severely injured - the only survivor of a family massacre in the outskirts of Stockholm.It turns out that the boy has an older sister who's disappeared, and there's reason to assume that the killer will go for her too.
I will wait patiently to read the next novel by Lars Kepler
Valja jedan od centralnih likova romana - doktor Erik Marija Bark, penzionisani hipnotizer, valja zarazna priča koja vas posle prvih 70-80 strana vuče u dovoljnoj meri da romanu date šansu i pored manjkavosti koje su evidentne.
I konačno valja atmosfera hladnog severa, Švedska <3Nema smisla da prepričavam radnju romana, uostalom sve već piše na korici, i ovde na goodreadsu, a i tako bih dosta toga pojednostavila.Žao mi je što je Jona Lina, ekcentrični policijski detektiv, inače poreklom Finac, ostao pomalo u zapećku ove priče, imajući u vidu dominantnu ulogu koju je imao doktor Bark, ali se nadam da ću u narednom romanu iz serijala imati prilike da se malo više družim sa njim.Ocena:3.5/5
Instead, I’m probably one of the few people who didn’t like this book and will never read another one written by Lars Kepler.
She continually complains to Erik, “but you have your pills.” I guess we’re supposed to be believe that she’s jealous of her husband’s addiction to sleeping pills.
She blames Erik for what’s happened to their family because he helped the police locate a missing girl who is being stalked by her brother who wants to kill her - such compassion.
The second Erik leaves and thinking no one wants to help her find her missing son, she calls her father (a retired cop) to come down and help with the investigation.
I was interested, and at times, gripped by this book, especially in the beginning and at the end. However, there were times I was bored, not really reading intensely, anxious for progress. I think the book was just too long. I felt the dialogue was stilted and that's probably due to translation. There were things happening that didn't seem relevant to the story. I probably won't read anything more by these authors.
Now see, I liked the book but I did not love the book and according to reviews I should have really loved it.The book holds it's mystery quite well as to who the bad guys are, and eventually the timeline of past and present collide and things start to really make sense.
The ending finally had some pace added to the book which I loved, and whilst I had twigged to who the bad guys were, it was good to not have got it all exactly worked out.
A minha opinião em vídeo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ySkEy...O primeiro Kepler e que me deu um prazer enorme. A história está bem construída e não há dúvida que os policiais suecos são mesmo muito bons.
(hide spoiler)] there's a Pokemon side plot, everyone is irritating and unlikable, (view spoiler)[Eva (and at least half the others) should never have been in an experimental group hypnosis study as they were clearly psychotic (especially Eva, I mean come on, she showed up to her first appointment in nothing but a raincoat, behaved horribly inappropriately, proved she wouldn't follow directions, and showed clear signs of paranoid delusions) (hide spoiler)] and the first plot sort of peters out midway only to be taken over by something else entirely.
Moving to a different area entirely, read Batya Gur and James McClure.
When Evelyn Ek is being consoled by a female police officer after hearing about her family's demise and disclosing some info about her disturbed and disturbing brother, she bites the officer in the neck and actually causes a bleeding wound.
When Erik's colleague gets him to take on Ava Blau's case, what happened?
There is a whole lot of biting going on, but nothing gets resolved.3.
When Erik and Joona go looking for Blau, they come upon a woman who seems to be hiding something.
It makes me feel as if the whole ending/resolution is a sham.
This could have been so good, but there are way too many unresolved and unexplained tangents to this tale.
The narrative jumps from one murder case to the next with no real explanation, I was expecting the connection to be explained nearer the end, but there just isn't one!
It's like the writers had two plot ideas they really liked and couldn't choose between the two, so just sort of smooshed them together, resulting in something not quite as good as either idea would have been on its own.
Se, por um lado até gostei da história, por outro houve qualquer coisa que correu mal, ou com a tradução, ou com a revisão, e que me irritou imenso.É difícil, para mim, estar a ler um livro na minha língua materna e tropeçar constantemente em erros.
Que sentido faz um adolescente dizer para os pais pararem de discutir depois de cada um deles ter proferido uma frase, cada um, sem haver qualquer indicação do narrador que há ali de facto uma discussão?Não me entendam mal, a história em si é interessante.
Certas descrições da hipnose em grupo até foram interessantes, mas o grau de detalhe acabou por fartar.Quanto às personagens, não posso dizer que gostei desta ou daquela.
Erik is eventually convinced, and while under hypnosis, the young boy Joseph admits to killing his family.
Simone awakes one night to find not only the fridge door open, but also the front door to their home, and she tries to convince Erik there was a prowler, but he takes a lot of medication, and ignored her.
But there are other secrets in Erik’s past.Joona takes on both the hunt for Joseph, and the kidnapping of Benjamin.My Opinions: I read this many years ago, and decided to start the series again.
If you can move beyond the language, the themes, and that some expression has been lost in translation, The Hypnotist is a unique and well-crafted novel that will delight those of us who ‘get’ the Stieg Larsson phenomenon.The story focuses on a man named Erik Maria Bark, a retired hypnotist living with his wife and son in Stockholm.
Spanning two crime scenes, killing three people and almost killing a fourth, the authorities’ best shot at protecting the fifth and final family member and solving the crime is to speak to the only eyewitness – the critically injured son, Joseph Ek. Joseph is in no capacity to be questioned, and so the expertise of Erik is required to assist the investigation.
Este thriller foi escrito por uma dupla de escritores e talvez por isso seja tão empolgante. O desafio acontece a cada capítulo e quando o leitor pensa que conseguiu desvendar o mistério é nos dado mais pistas, mais acontecimentos que baralham a nossa estratégia. Ler este livro é um desafio também para o leitor que está permanentemente envolvido no mistério e na carga psicológica das personagens.
Lo compré con muchas ganas de leerlo después de terminar la trilogía de Millenium, decían que era de ese estilo y la trama parecía interesante. Lo empecé y al poco lo dejé porque no me enganchó, lo intenté retomar sin éxito y a la tercera fue la vencida pero por orgullo más que por gusto. No me gusta como se desarrolla, a mitad del libro mete un capítulo súper largo con miles de nombres que te lían. Esperaba mucho más. Buena trama pero no me gusta como está enfocada.
Uma percentagem ínfima de pessoas estarão habilitadas para o fazer, é algo verdadeiramente enigmático e pouco usual.
De modo que toda esta temática despertou em mim muito interesse.
Contudo, confesso que hesitei entre um 3,5 e um 4.Senti alguns pormenores, aqui e ali, menos credíveis ou menos prováveis digamos, mas abstenho-me de os comentar para não arruinar a surpresa de quem vai iniciar a leitura.Nada é o que parece.
O suspense vai intensificando.
A dada altura entramos numa espiral de ocorrências que nos agarram e queremos desatar com urgência todo o novelo.
Cruzamos uma linha que vai do suspense até terror psicológico e sentimo-nos verdadeiramente desconfortáveis com tanta crueldade.Cumpre-se o propósito do livro!
There are no survivors except for the teenaged son who is lying at death's door.
Dr. Bark (the hypnotist) was portrayed as a very good father ..
Their son, Benjamin, also a teenager constantly called his parents liars and referred to living in a house of lies.
Throw in Dr. Bark's patients..
the ones who have been severely abused one way or another and you have a ton of back stories to remember.I found the book a little disjointed ..
Not the best book I've ever read, but not the worst, either.
I have never read anything darker, more forboding, more utterly tormented than Swedish thrillers...and continue to come back for more.
When they are done well, as this is, there is nothing more insistently suspenseful and satisfyingly terrifying.
This is a complicated plot, in the style of Swedish thrillers, and mostly it lives up to its promise.
There are probably a few too many red herrings and additional plot elements than necessary, but it's done well and can be forgiven, at least by me.I find it interesting that this Swedish thriller genre is populated by significantly flawed characters who seem to thrive on self-flagellation.
3  stars: Another great thriller with lots of twists & turns from a pool of talented and recently trendy Swedish authors. This one the strange & haunting tale of 15 year old Josef, only witness and survivor of the slaughter of his entire family. Detective Joona Linna turns for help in solving the crime to a brilliant doctor, hoping he can unlock Josef’s hidden memories; a doctor who has given up hypnosis doubting its ethics and his own abilities. On the plus side, great character develop
3 ½ stars: Another great thriller with lots of twists & turns from a pool of talented and recently trendy Swedish authors.
Detective Joona Linna turns for help in solving the crime to a brilliant doctor, hoping he can unlock Josef’s hidden memories; a doctor who has given up hypnosis doubting its ethics and his own abilities.
On the plus side, great character development & nice cultural touches for a taste of Swedish life.
On the negative, the plot was a little convoluted, the gore a bit thick for my taste.
traumų rūmaiĮ šitą knygą jau kuris laikas vis spigindavau akimis, neįkyriai, bet taip ta visa skandinaviškų detektyvų magija vis neblėsta ir vis suvilioja, nors aš po Millennium trilogijos taip nieko TOKIO nei danų, nei norvegų detektyvuose dar nesuradau.
Knygoje paslapčių yra kelios, viena žiauresnė už kitą ir labai pigiai čia buvo užmestas vienas kabliukas, o galiausiai pakišta visai kas kita.
Knygą rašė du autoriai, vyras ir žmona, tai lyg ir tikėtumeisi, kad bent tuos visus pašalinius santykių vingius aprašys žmoniškai iš visų perspektyvų, bet kur tau – vien banalios klišės ir nei trupučio tikrovės.
Mt bom! Entre 4⭐ e 4,5⭐
Mt bom! Entre 4⭐️ e 4,5⭐️
I can not say that I did not like, I can not say either that I really enjoyed this irregular writing novel in which I felt sometimes captivated, sometimes languid, some episodes caughtful: The plot is most promising, the actions of the suspects keep you in suspense, however, the author portrays taciturn main characters, there may be, of course, but even the policeman who is supposed to investigate, overflowing with an energy which he might employ to some extravagance, contented himself with doing his work with an unusual but uncharted feeling and intuition.A return in the past in the middle of the novel seems necessary, but this flash back is really too long and many details did not seem useful to me and burden the narrative.
