https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68488.Fool_s_Errand
A tale of a bond between humans and animals at its finest level.Fool’s Errand is the first book in the Tawny Man trilogy—the third out of five subseries within Hobb’s The Realm of the Elderlings gigantic series—and it is my favorite installment within the entire RotE so far.
Honestly, after the disappointment I had with the last installment of the Farseer trilogy, and after the greatness of the Liveship Traders trilogy, I didn’t expect to find how much I’ve missed seeing Fitz, the Fool, and Nigtheyes together until the moment I flipped the pages of this book.Fool’s Errand takes the readers back to Fitz’s journey and I must say I’m absolutely delighted by how captivating this book was got me.
The books are told from the first person entirely; thus the reader witnesses the change in his thoughts as he grows into a man.
Tom Badgerlock is the person Fitschivalry has evolved into: the one he always wanted to be; he is the man with a simple life, a small farm, a few friends and the close companionship of his loyal wolf.
Tom Badgerlock doesn't want to go back to being the tool of the Farseer throne, their Assassin.
Wonderful MagicA theme has been established through the book, through the use of animals, almost defining the author’s style.
But then I saw everyone reading one or the other Fitz book and going ga ga over.
So this story picks up after the 15 years of events that took place in Assassin’s Quest.
But things get complicated in Six Duchies and Fitz has to return and bring back a runaway prince.Fitz has come a long way from his days of Assassin’s Quest.
And this new Fitz won my heart even before he solved the mystery of runaway prince and saved the day.The best aspect of this book for me was relation between Fool and Fitz; and Nighteye and Fitz.
Damn Fool bastard has me talking in circles.But back to the Bastard – Robin Hobb(no I’m not calling her a bastard) still manages to reintroduce us to an older Fitz and catch us up in a way that is interesting despite being slow.
Even when Fitz is doing nothing, I still wanted to know what he was going to do next as his old life calls out to him.
We should know by now that there are worse things that can happen to Fitz than dying and we should know that Robin Hobb does not hold back from inflicting them on our protagonist.
And I might blame it on pregnancy hormones except Hobb made me cry in her last two series Liveship Traders and Farseer Trilogy and when I read those I wasn't pregnant.But this book again has ruined me.
She introduces her character and you live their daily lives and truly get to know them.
A child sees the acorn of his daily life , but a man looks back on the oak.She then spends the remainder of the book turning your opinions on their head as her characters change and evolve in very real ways as events unfold in this fabulous world she has created.Some speak of the savagery of beasts.
This is more or less what I look like whenever FitzChivalry Farseer is involved:So many books later, and I’m still feeling überprotective of Fitz. I got furious with his neighbour when he attacked Fitz in the market place, I wanted to kick Starling out of the door (and none too gently), and I was even too angry to cry when the inevitable happened (view spoiler)[and Nighteyes dies. It was 500 pages in the making and still I was shocked (hide spoiler)].What Robin Hobb manages to do is quite amazin
It was 500 pages in the making and still I was shocked  (hide spoiler)].What Robin Hobb manages to do is quite amazing in fact.
She writes very factual, very matter-of-fact but it makes the reader react in a very emotional way.
”Pet me, you’ll feel better" That does feel so cat-like.Two, the way she writes her stories and keeps you guessing.
(And I can keep going like that for a few pages if need be)Seriously, I dread the day I run out of Robin Hobb books to read.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
„Fool?“„What?“„You are not Fool anymore.
What do they call you these days?“„What does who call me when?“„I should not call you Fool anymore.
What do you want me to call you?“„Ah, what do I want you to call me now?
And if I tell you, you would call me by that name?“„In private only.
Oh, but I would.“„Then?“„The name my mother gave me, I give now to you, to call me by in private.
And if you still insist we must both take different names now, then I shall call you beloved.And whenever I call you that, you may call me fool.“
Entre dolor, soledad y desconsuelo trato de escribir estas líneas para intentar describir lo que me dejó, o más exactamente lo que me sacó, este libro.
Death is not the opposite of life, but the opposite of choice.Hay historias que están muy bien contadas pero son vacuas, no son capaces de llegar a los corazones de sus lectores; hay otras que transmiten la más potente vorágine pero no tienen gran calidad narrativa.
Sin embargo, en las profundidades reposan joyas que cumplen con todas las características que necesita un relato para brillar.
These books frustrate the hell out of me!
I think I hate them like I do because they are so damn realistic.
The main character is brave.
The next you sit there grinning like an idiot for how smart or good or funny or interesting they are.
This is the case for everything in the WHOLE FRIKKIN' BOOK!
All the books.
In the whole series!Makes me irritated just thinking about it all.
Also makes me want to read it again.
It's crazy that I could ever dislike a book so much and still absolutely adore it.
Realistic but brave.
I wanted to immerse myself back into the world, and find out the consequences of the events of the Liveship books and the Farseer books.Overall my only slight criticism of this book was that, although we learn a lot throughout this book about new and old characters and the magic of this world, I didn't feel that there was as much mystery or anticipation surrounding certain elements of the plot.
I am broken. My love for Fitz and the Fool is strong as ever, but my heart is broken from the events of this book. I didn't cry, but I screamed.Also, Fitz and the Fool... I ship it. So damn hard!
When I say I couldn't put it down, I mean I couldn't put it down.
This 661 page book took me about 24 hours to finish.
I listened to it on audio and I couldn't disconnect myself.
I listened during my commute, during work, during cooking, during putting my kids to bed.
This book is set almost 15 years after Assassin's Quest.
Fitz is no longer whiny and misguided.
The Fool is no longer mean spirited.
I loved Assassin's Apprentice, but this one was just loads above and beyond that one.
I loved everything about this book and can't wait to read the next one.
This is my third time of reading this series and it still remains my absolute favourite! Fitz, Fool and of course Nighteyes are absolute heroes and can do no wrong in my eyes.Wishful thinking below, but who cares and I may get my wish come true in the new series, you never know!
It was a strange transition from the pace of the Liveship Traders to the pace of this trilogy, told (like the Farseer trilogy) entirely in first person from Fitz’s perspective. Fitz is a thorough scribe, to say the least, and this is definitely a set-up book (the main plot doesn’t begin until 200 pages in). But I appreciated this for its quiet steadiness, and found myself getting surprisingly emotional over passing moments of dialogue and introspection. I absolutely can’t wait to read the next two books in this trilogy – I have a feeling they’ll build to something phenomenal.
Another great book about our hero Fitz. I especially love reading about him for some reason, and this book was no exception. I can't go too much into the story since it's a continuation of the long series Robin Hobb has created, but I can say that I liked how we get to follow Fitz at an older age - and I LOVED that this novel contains cats :D I'm definitely going to continue on with this series once Autumn really sets in.
Adventure comes to his door in the shape of Chade, followed by the Fool.The first 5 chapters or so deal primarily with catching up with Fitz and finding out what's been going on in his life.
In any other writer's hands this would be tedious but Hobb slowly reveals his past in a tantalizing way.
She reveals what happened to Fitz in snippets and she always left me wanting more.I enjoyed the plot.
Hobb's characters are so nuanced and substantial, even the antagonists.
I enjoyed spending time with everyone.The real star of the book is Hobb's writing.
So good to be back in the world of the Six Duchies. Fitz is a grown man now and was living a rather relaxed life for a change. That couldn't last forever. Robin Hobb sucks me right in and makes me feel one with Fitz. I love his character, what a softy sometimes haha. Rather sad twist at the end, but she was building towards it. Meh.
Nastavak avantura Kneževića, Noćnookog i Lude. Lepo je videti ih opet zajedno. Robin Hob je još jednom dokazala da je majstor pripovedanja. Nadam se da će i naredne dve knjige biti poput ove.
Robin Hobb delivers with amazing character development, great plot, twists, and brings in great new characters in the first book of The Tawny Man trilogy!The Farseer Trilogy (Assassin's Apprentice, Royal Assassin, Assassin's Quest)Liveship Traders Trilogy (Ship of Magic, The Mad Ship, Ship of Destiny)The Tawny Man Trilogy (Fool's Errand, The Golden Fool, Fool's Fate)The Rain Wild Chronicles (Dragon Keeper, Dragon Haven, City of Dragons, Blood of Dragons)The Fitz and the Fool Trilogy (Fool's Assassin, Fool's Quest, Assassin's Fate)Fool's Errand is more a sequel to the Farseer Trilogy than to the Liveship Traders series...
After fifteen years alone Fitz is dragged back to help protect the Farseer line from a new threat Soon we are back with the magic of The Wit, Skilling, Nighteyes and the enigma of The Fool who has a whole new persona now. Much more of an adventure story than the first Fitz series with some nice links to the previous Liveship trilogy. Excellent story, some new characters and a moment of sheer tear scorching heartbreak. Brilliant.
The next two FARSEER books, Royal Assassin and Assassin’s Quest, follow Fitz as he grows up, learns to use and control his powers, falls in love, and does the ugly duties that are required of the king’s assassin.
(You can read the Piebald origin story in Hobb’s recent novella, The Willful Princess and the Piebald Prince.) Fitz’s partner on his quest to find Dutiful is his best friend, The Fool, who he hasn’t seen in years.The brilliance of the FARSEER stories is that Fitz feels so real and evokes such sympathy due to his circumstances that I am content just to be around him, even if he’s doing nothing more exciting than feeding the chickens or fixing the roof.
This is my third Robin Hobb book.
The previously read ones were 4 and 5 stars.
This particular book is only three stars for just two reasons.
Her other books moved at a much faster pace than this one.
I still enjoyed the writing, but it definitely felt slow going.
It also seemed very singular in plot focus.
But with that being said, those are my only two complaints.I love her writing.
It is vibrant and clear.
She does world building well.
She is creative with plot points.
And she writes great dialogue.
All things that I love.
I woke up this morning and thought to myself... "hey, I really feel like having my heart ripped out and dashed upon the stones." Yes, it is definitely time to reconnect with Fitz.
Occhi di notte...
Esta es la Robin Hobb que me enamoró allá lejos en el tiempo con Aprendiz de Asesino, la que se perdió un poco durante la saga de los piratas (*mirada de soslayo*), pero vuelve plena a su querido Traspié Hidalgo.
Esta vez, Traspié está retirado y no quiere volver a su vida de asesino furtivo, pero los Seis Ducados lo necesitan una vez más.
Mi única queja radicaría en el personaje de Laurel, que realmente, si no se le da un papel más importante en los siguientes libros, fue agregada en este sola y puramente para propiciar relleno.
I really enjoyed getting back into the bastard's world, although honestly, most of the novel was pastoral and catching up with the main character after almost two decades of living without adventure.
When the story picked up, the intrigue was decent and the developments hinted at greater things for the future.
He needed to find a new reason to live, and becoming a teacher seemed right to me.The plot really began much later in the book, and while I don't have a problem with that, per se, I did feel a little like the later action was an afterthought.
I'm still very interested in seeing the developments.
If you like Hobb and her previous two trilogies about the Elderlings Realm, you'll want to continue.
True, this is a staple of long Hobb books, but here is where it really works.
Not a lot happens for a long time, but with Hobb, that's ok.
She doesn't make it boring, but rather gets us into a comfort zone from which we can branch when it is time for stuff to happen.So there, not a lot to review.
Just enough to say yeah, I liked this and I'm moving right into the next one...
The first half is meh; second half better mehWhile I did end up enjoying it, it was just so slow and boring yet it still manages to bring a major case of the feels.(still reeling over that one) The characters are,like always, excellent but they're different and while it's more realistic I still wanted more of younger Fitz.Hopefully the next book is much better but after 6 book I fully trust Robin Hobb and am extremely excited the next two books in the trilogy
Simply put, this is a love letter to Farseer fans.
There were some scenes that I remembered as strongly as if they were real memories of things I had witnessed, but a lot of the plot details had faded away.
I enjoyed it straight through.I have a few more specific and very spoilerish comments within the tags.(view spoiler)[One of my favorite scenes in all the Hobb books I’ve read so far is the reunion between Fitz and the Fool that takes place fairly early in this book.
As events led up to it, I started to realize it was going to happen a lot sooner than I had thought.Another thing I had completely forgotten was that Fitz ended up on Others’ Island for a while.
