https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/618177.Legend
I never read any David Gemmell until I was already published.
And even then, he first came to my attention after someone e-mailed me, saying something along the lines of, "I'm glad someone like you is here to carry on Gemmell's tradition now that he's dead..." After I got a few more e-mails along a similar line, I went out and bought Legend, read it, and was terribly flattered by the comparison.
Since then, I've actually won the Gemmell award.
http://blog.patrickrothfuss.com/2012/...Anyway, I just re-read this, and I enjoyed it every bit as much the second time around.
In the Iliad, Achilles was given a choice by the gods: To live a short, glorious, heroic life that will end violently but be remembered, or to live a long, healthy life and eventually suffer the fading effect of time upon his name.
Where Achilles is remembered for the glory of his life, Hector is heroic for the manner of his death.
What does it mean to die a "good death?" For that matter, what does it mean to even live a life worth living?
Legend was his first and greatest book, and its very existence makes the world a fuller place, and humanity wealthier.
But, thankfully, my fears were unfounded: Legend still as good as ever.Here the Nadir hordes (Think Mongols) have been united under the charismatic, intelligent, and ruthless Ulric, who determines it is time for his people to conquer their more settled neighbors, the Drenai.
All these diverse individuals inspired by Druss himself to stand up for what they believe in, sacrifice themselves in order to keep what they cherish safe from harm, and lay down their lives die before they betray that which they hold dear.Whenever I describe this book to a friend who is thinking of reading it, I say Legend is the fantasy equivalent of the Alamo, where men sacrificed their lives for a cause.
Battles like these easily become legends.David Gemmel gives us the legend of Dross Delnoch, a strong keep with six walls defended by ten thousands men of whom most are untrained volunteers, about to withstand an attack of the greatest army ever assembled; a horde that within twenty years had built an empire stretching across a dozen lands and five score cities.
Finally, while you will find the motif of good forces with all the odds pitched against them fighting the incoming evil in other heroic fantasy books (including those penned by Gemmel himself), I think that the Legend is more mature because it is more nuanced.
A legend book = Legend (The Drenai Saga #1), David GemmellLegend, published in 1984, is the first and most famous novel of British fantasy writer David Gemmell.
The Drenai leader Abalayn is trying to negotiate new treaties with Ulric, but war is brewing and an over 500,000 strong Nadir army marches on the fortress of Dros Delnoch, gateway to the Drenai heartlands.
Dros Delnoch is the greatest fortress in the world, a narrow pass guarded by six high walls and a great keep, but under Abalayn its complement of defenders has been reduced to less than 10,000 men under the leadership of an unfit General.
The authors do a great job painting the fear, loss, and horror with their words, and despite creating heroes who are shaped by the war experiences, the books are never pro-war...
Most of them have found death and no songs have been written in their honor, but people tend to think of the heroes and their deeds as separate from the pain and ugliness by which they are defined.
Druss is called upon to inspire the soldiers and fight another last impossible to win battle, charged with holding the Dros Delnoch pass, until the Nadir Horde are repelled or every last soldier is dead.
An awesome BR with Lovely Pinky and my fellow Catman, two faithful Cat-holics. “Get rid of your doubts. Yesterday is dead. Past mistakes are like smoke in the breeze. What counts is tomorrow..” I love epic fantasy <3 Fantasy books rarely let me down and “The Legend” sure didn’t. Opening such a book I look for a promise from the author, I want to dive into the rich, picturesque world, intriguing narrative, and of course gripping characters with true to life personalities (and of course with na
Opening such a book I look for a promise from the author, I want to dive into the rich, picturesque world, intriguing narrative, and of course gripping characters with true to life personalities (and of course with names I have difficulties to pronounce :D) That’s what I seek for in my fantasy reads 😊Did I get this in this book?
Their backstories and personalities were the ones where Mr. Gemmell showed his skill in creating memorable characters.Bowman and Caessa (hide spoiler)]Narrative.
The skillful execution of these reliable tropes combined with the addition of some other nice features made for a really enjoyable read.The first 2/3 of the book were pretty well paced, characters and story elements were introduced and developed and the scene was set for the epic siege to come.
There were a cast of pretty straightforward secondary characters who all nevertheless served their roles in the story well.
The Nadir army heads for Dros Delnoch, a keep guarding a mountain pass.
Druss the Legend comes out of retirement for one last battle.
But even with Rek the baresark and the earl of Delnoch's daughter help Druss and eleven thousand men stand up against an advancing army many times their size?I'll be honest with you.
Druss knows his value as a Legend to the other soldiers at Dros Delnoch far outweighs his substantial prowess as a warrior.The other characters are well done as well.
Ulric, leader of the Nadir, is a multi-dimensional character.
Meanwhile, several heroic Drenai characters are also heading toward the fortress to lend their aid, all of them are aware of the impossibility of winning the war.Druss is the most vivid and larger than life character in a book full of vivid and vibrant characters.
Though I would like to read his Troy series which I never read before.• Gemmell is something of a writer’s writer where the epic fantasy genre is concerned, there is even a  David Gemmell Award named after him (comparable to the Arthur C.
The Drenai Empire (good guys) is threatened by barbarian horde from Nadir (not-so-good guys) where a leader emerged who managed to unite almost all the tribes and wants to conquer his neighbors.
So, on one hand we have hordes of barbarians with decent commanders; on the other hand - a very small army consisting mostly of new recruits whose task is to delay the conquerors until the reinforcements arrive (hopefully).
The only reason I gave this book 3 stars is Druss himself, he is a very interesting character who really makes you wish he kept defying the odds against him.
If I discount Druss, the book is worth 2 stars.
They will say, 'Here lies Druss.
"They'll say, 'Here lies Druss the Legend, who was never mean, petty nor needlessly cruel.
Here was a man who never gave in, never compromised his ideals, never betrayed a friend, never despoiled a woman and never used his strength against the weak.' They'll say 'He had no sons, but many a woman asleep with her babes slept more soundly for knowing Druss stood with the Drenai.' They'll say many things, whitebeard.
Through many generations they will say them, and men with no strength will find strength when they hear them.""That would be pleasant," said the old man, smiling.A decent book with some really good sides.
The book that really put David Gemmell on the map as an exceptional exponent of heroic fantasy.
Gemmell's ability to take archetypes and depict them as real people was always one of his greatest strengths, and he succeeds admirably here.
Legendary axe-wielding warrior Druss marshals a mis-matched group of Drenai to defend the mighty fortress of Dros Delnoch from the Nadir horde.
All the classic Gemmell ingredients are present; gritty action, breathless pace and a depth of characterisation that had rarely been seen in this genre before.
Whilst 'Wolf in Shadow' remains my favourite Gemmell book, for those new to his work, this may well be the best place to start.
In a word, awesome! Druss is now one of my favourite characters. This was my first Gemmell and I really enjoyed it. I'm looking forward to reading more in the series. The multiple point of view was well done and kept things interesting. I liked all of the main characters and enjoyed watching them grow as the book progressed. Gemmell doesn't pull his punches and it was brutal at times which is something I always appreciate. I was hooked from the beginning and my interest didn't falter. A most enjoyable read!
So Agos, I hope you find this at least bit helpful.It was in my early days on Goodreads I read this but my memory is still surprisingly fresh partially because in those days my number of reads per year was barely dozen or so rather than 3-digit numbers I am now managing each year.Despite being written in 80's this is not Tolkien-esque fantasy but more inspired by, as name says it, legends and myths.
Since It's inspired by legends and myths dialogues are also in that vein which makes them odd by today's standards, there is great insta-love and characters that don't even try to be realistic or plausible.
I found a few interviews and such with him and discovered an amazingly interesting man.I am going to risk a spoiler here...(view spoiler)[Druss and the Drenai defenders hold up in Dros Delnoch (a Drenai fortress that [of course:] has never fallen) and are (except for a few) willing and ready to defend the fort to the end (ala the Alamo, Thermopylae, etc.) In an interview Gemmell once spoke of a "reader" who wrote him and expressed a lack of understanding as to why the defenders would stay once it became obvious they couldn't hold and would be slaughtered.
Took me awhile to get through, but I really enjoyed this book and personally this book showed me you don't need to have a book over 1000 pages to be epic. So pretty much, if your looking for an epic story with huge battles and an aging warrior who still knows how to kick arse no matter who it is, this is the book for you.
5 stars
This was a pretty enjoyable, straightforward fantasy. Despite being published in the eighties it doesn't feel quite as dated as some of its contemporaries. Basically, it feels like the author took the premise of the Battle of Helm's Deep (™Tolkien, LOTR) and stretched it out but the insight gained as various characters faced their own mortality was pretty interesting. Though this is marked as the first in a series it felt like a pretty self-contained story, i.e. no cliffhanger, with even a nice little epilogue to put a bow of closure on everything.
When he arrives he realizes he can't just fight because the warriors of Dros Delnoch need him to lead.Much of the tale of Legend seems to revolve around dying well.
I get that their is only so many pages to tell a story, but everyone knows if you are going to have a meet cute and want to speed up two characters falling in love then you need a montage.
I found it a bit frustrating, but not to the extent it kept me from reading the book.I really enjoyed the arthritic legend Druss.
Ace book, Gemmell delivers. Baffles me a little bit that "Legend" was first released back in 1984 as I was expecting something along the lines of The Eye of the World, but what I got instead is a bastard with a distinct and extremely contemporary grimdark flavour to it. Not a single dull page, peeps, not one. That said, I really have no clue why I've waited so long to actually give this classic a chance.Similar book? Hmm... I'd say Joe Abercrombie's The Heroes.Five stars.
The plot is simple.
The characters archetypes.
The world not terribly unique or innovative.
when you put this book down, you feel inspired to do good, and like anything is possible if you work for it.
This is the first of the Gemmell books I ever read.
Since then, I've read nearly everything he's written.
Every single one has been an engaging, inspiring, and all around fantastic read.
And for the life of me I can't figure out why, because none of the elements that comprise it are all that special or memorable.
The whole is really greater than the sum of its parts.
Druss the Legend... what more can I say? Loved it!
What a battle book, awesome! Loved the characters, the romance was sweet although Rek could be cheesy haha. And a well rounded ending =)
Great heroic fantasy! I really liked Gemmel's writing style, great characterization, and enthralling battle scenes. It's a really strong book, absolutely a book to remember.Highly recommended !!!5/5
In the penultimate round of bellicose braggadocio, emperor claims “I have four armies like this” (317).We know from Hans Delbruck, in the History of the Art of War Volume I Warfare in Antiquity, that such army strengths transform the exceedingly improbable into manifest impossibility.
Impossibility of army strengths notwithstanding, the stage is set therefore for the dialectical confrontation of immovable object and unstoppable force.
Now that the cold war is over, fantasy is liberated from the Germanic geopolitics of Tolkien and can return to the presentation of a falling or fallen empire, as was important to the Arthurian tradition, the Nibelungenlied, Galfridus Monumentensis--the despair of St. Augustine ultimately.
But I mean honestly.
Not in a character development type way..
Anyone who has read this knows the relationship I'm talking about.
She asks him later if he's going to apologize, and he's basically like "bitch, please..." and kisses her to make it all better.
It's like Gemmell never met an actual woman.
I guess maybe when it's written beside that horrible dialogue, you're just glad they're done talking, so it becomes better in comparison?
I probably will read another book in this series, just to see if maybe it will hook me.
Maybe it gets better.
Look at that unresistable Serbian edition cover which i own:Isn't it beautiful?Now, i have read a lot of high/epic fantasy and i love many authors like Jordan and Martin.
It has everything i love, siege, strategy, drama, romance, great characters and loving couples.
Live or die, a man and a woman need love.
There are many characters and they all get special place in the book.
We find a lot about them, their lives, their pasts, and they are all deep characters which you will love.
It was fantastic to reread this book again. I listened to the audiobook and the narration is simply perfect! It is still is an amazing book although it is a bit dated in some parts but that didn't stop me from giving it a 5 star rating!I think I will reread the entire Drenai saga!
However, the love story intertwined with the war is the worst I have read so far, but I guess Gemmel’s intention was to show that love prevails no matter what.
The preparation for battle and the war itself are masterfully written.
The imagery is so vivid that I cringed and felt pain reading the battle scenes.
Nonetheless, the battle scenes, the interaction between the characters during these scenes, the humorous dialogues on occasion made this story to be a very enjoyable one, albeit I don’t think I will read another in this series, because everything (view spoiler)[(and everyone I cared about) (hide spoiler)] burned out here.
