https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32276.Dragons_of_Eden
واحدٌ من أمتع ما قرأت على الإطلاقيكاد يضاهي كتاب الكون في جماله وتفردهالطريقة التي قدم بها سيجن معلو
لو غاوى كتب الأرصفه و الأعلى مبيعا سيعجبك ككتاب خفيف و ممتع و اسلوبه شيق لكن لو بتقرأه من أجل الماده العلميه هتلاقيه سطحى و غير دقيق و يستند لأطروحات و استنتاجات نظرية لم يدعمها العلم بصوره قاطعه و لا حتى بصورة شبه مؤكدة.العنوان خادع شويتين و لو انه متوقع ان كتاب بالحجم الصغير ده صعب يناقش قضية بالخطورة دى لكنه مسلى و تقدر تعتبره مقدمة فى فهم المخ البشرى و تطوره لدى الانسان.
"كتنانين عدن" "إننا نتهم الأرواح الشريرة بأنها السبب في الصرع ؛ لأننا لا نفهم له سبباً آخر, ولو أننا اتهمنا الأرواح الشريرة بكل مرض لا نعرف له سبباً لامتلأ الكون بهذه الأرواح" أبوقراط في عام 1975, قام المؤلف "كارل ساجان" بتقديم أول محاضرة لذكرى "جايكوب برونسكي" في "الفلسفات الطبيعية" في جامعة تورونتووالكتاب الذي بين أيدينا توسيع لتلك المحاضرةوالمؤلف ليس لديه خبرة كبيرة في تشريح المخلديه فقط خبرة في البيولوجيا. فلقد قام بتلخيص ما قرأه عن الموضوع لمشاركته معنا في هذا الكتاب المبسطبدأ الفصل الأول
وأنا أشك في أن المترجم قد يكون أكثر تفهماً من كارل ساجان لكيفية عمل كتاب مخصص للعامةأما عن حذفه للعبارات التي رآها تتجاوز الخطوط الحمراء فهو أمر عجيب.ففي بداية المقدمة اشتكى من أن في نفسه شعوراً بالمرارة للظلم الذي يتعرض أبناؤنا وبناتنا بحرمانهم من البرامج العلمية القيمة"فكل ما شاهدوه في هذا المجال استعارات مشوهة من بعض هذه البرامج العلمية ,تلغي ما عليها من تعليقات ذكية مثيرة للتساؤل البنّاء وتوضع بدلاً منها تعليقات سطحية خفيفة تحتوي على كثير من الأخطاء , وتصب دلواً من الثلج البارد على كل ما كان يمكن أن تثيره هذه البرامج من نشاط عقلي"
Natural selection could not have been the only answer.This book is one that shook me out of cerebral complacency and like a good author, Sagan opens the cobweb laden windows of my brain and lets the light in.This is a book length introspection into the nature of human intellect.
The aspect of the Triune brain and the R-complex's involvement in human behavior is what Sagan calls the Dragons chained away in the dungeons of our minds.
I finished reading, put down the book and ran my fingers through my hair and muttered You are a rockstar to my brain.
One of the most beautiful things I've ever read came from this book:"If the human brain had only one synapse-- corresponding to a monumental stupidity-- we would be capable of only two mental states.
If we had two synapses, then 2^2 = 4 states; three synapses, then 2^3 = 8 states, and, in general, for N synapses, 2^N states.
But the human brain is characterized by some 10^13 synapses.
Thus the number of different states of a human brain is 2 raised to this power-- i.e., multiplied by itself ten trillion times.
The Dragons of Eden: speculations on the evolution of human intelligence, Carl Sagan The Dragons of Eden: Speculations on the Evolution of Human Intelligence is a 1977 book by Carl Sagan, in which the author combines the fields of anthropology, evolutionary biology, psychology, and computer science to give a perspective on how human intelligence may have evolved.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و هشتم ماه جولای سال 2014 میلادیعنوان: اژدهایان عدن: تاملی در تکامل هوش انسان؛ نوشته: کارل ساگان (سیگن)؛ ترجمه: جبیب الله تیموری؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، پاپیروس، 1368 در 243 ص مصور، جدول، نمودار، دارای کتابنامه از ص 235 تا 243؛ موضوع: هوش، مغز، روانشناسی ژنتیک - سده 20 ماژدهایان بهشت عدن: گمانه‌ زنی‌ها دربارهٔ فرگشت هوش انسان؛ کتابی ست اثر: کارل سیگن (ساگان)، اخترشناس و نویسنده آمریکایی که برنده ی جایزه پولیتزر شده‌ است.
I'd read this book a few years ago, and loved it. It's a great introduction to brain anatomy, consciousness/subconsciousness, and evolution. An "easy" read, if any book that deals with these types of topics can be considered as such. Sagan is good at presenting complex material in an interesting and palatable way. It made me want to start paying more attention to my dreams. (He also relates one of his personal experiences of smoking marijuana, and his theories of the effects it might have on the brain and consciousness.)
And considering the fact that he was writing this out of the 70's and he disclaimed the hell out of it, it's meant to be a conversation starter for laymen.All good.
The writing is good, the ideas sound, and the subject is still obviously open today.So what did I have a problem with?Actually, my complaint is rather prosaic.
HEAVILY dated.
It's like the line from Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy where Prosser still thinks that digital watches are a good idea.There are better books that do the job of this one, but for the time I'm sure it was pretty fantastic.
Like other mammals, they are capable of strong emotions.Why, exactly, all over the civilized world, in virtually every major city, are apes in prison?""Humans have systematically exterminated those other primates who displayed signs of intelligence."Carl Sagan is the best science teacher one can ever get.
Some info that made me love this book:-> how much info do our genes carry-> evolution of human brain-> various components of human brain-> right and left hemisphere of brains-> what exactly is intuitiveness-> why do humans and other mammals sleep-> difference between dream sleep and dreamless sleep-> REM sleep-> what do our dreams mean-> why do some people sleep for longer time while some sleep for lesser time-> extraterrestrial intelligence-> what causes some of the mental illnesses-> why animals cannot talk-> Reptiles vs MammalsPulitzer Prize Winner
The meaning of the evolution of extra-genetic intelligence (brains in animals and humans) and extra-somatic intelligence (writing, books, computers) in humans, the nature of instincts buried in our older "reptilian brain" regions, the conflict between the left and right neocortex and the purpose of each, this is exciting stuff that we can all see at work in our lives, giving evolution an extra layer of reality.After finishing reading, I was left wondering if the next evolutionary step would imply a complete detachment of our mind from the primate emotional instincts, and reliance only on the rational, more advanced brain.
Her ne kadar, bilimin doğal akışı gereği kitaptaki bazı bölümlerde sonradan yeni kanıtlar, gelişmeler ortaya çıktıysa da (Aklıma gelenler; Nenderthallerle ilgili gelişmeler, Dinazorların nasıl yok oldukları bölüm, fizik kurallarının evrende her noktada aynı işlediğini söylediği son bölüm ve bilgisayarların en fazla tuşlarının basılabilirliği ölçüsünde küçüleceğini söylediği bölümde dokunmatiği veya giriş ünitesi olmayan mini bilgisayarları öngör-e-memesi) son derece normal kabul edilebilir ve edilmelidir zira bilim insanının kahin olması beklenemez.
alıntıları Sagan'ın aynı zamanda ne denli büyük bir okur olduğunu da gösteriyor.
Müspet bilim ile sınırlı tutmamış okumasını, neredeyse her konuda bir şeyler öğrenmeye çalışmış.Kitapta özellikle insan beyni hakkında çok şey öğrendim.
Interesting read, as long as one takes into account that it's quite old and outdated by now, so it's not exactly cutting edge. (I read it pretty long ago myself).Still, Sagan has a such a pleasant, conversational style, that even reading it for the speculations alone, makes reading the book a not unpleasant way of whiling away your time.I like the angles he chooses to speculate from, especially the bits about instinct and how myths most probably formed in the human collective subconscious.
Interesting questions on the origin and development of human intelligence. Still worth a read despite lots of progress since he wrote this. Gives a good description of left/right brain competencies. Has piqued my interest in evolutionary development. The guy was taken from us too early but sure made a name for himself in what time he had.
siento que lo quiero por la semilla que ha dejado en tantas personas, tuvo que ser un gran hombre para marcar tanto a toda una generación.
Es increíble que yo lo admirara tanto sin conocer su trabajo, solo por ver cómo la gente hablaba de él.
Y es un libro obviamente marcado por lo que se sabía en su época, muy lejos de lo que hoy se conoce, sobre el ser humano y su cerebro.
Eso sí, lo que nunca va a pasar de moda es ese calor único que desprende Sagan, como persona.Cuando habla de la ciencia, como habla de ella, se nota tanto que lo que siente por ella es tan puro y tan contagioso.
This was an interesting book to read after all of the recent research and groundbreaking discoveries of the human brain.
Clearly, Sagan smokes weed.
However, there are times when he must be coming off his high that his insights are both subtle and poignant.
Oxymoronic, to be sure, but so was most of Sagan's keen skepticism amidst his psuedoscientific platitudes.I use big words.
That being said, some of the best parts of this book are the drawings related to studies conducted on patients with a severed corpus collosum.
If you never read this book, I highly recommend you find it in a bookstore just to check out these studies.
Carl Sagan, like Stephen Jay Gould, is one of those scientists gifted as a teacher to non-specialists.
This book is about intelligence, a topic both men dealt with, Gould most notably in his Mismeasure of Man. Sagan, however, deals with all intelligence, ending his book with a discussion of nonhuman intelligences, most particularly certain Cetaceans and primates.
Noting that chimpanzees and gorillas appear to be intellectually comparable to human five-year-olds, he ends with a plea to extend some of the rights we afford our own children to members of other intelligent species.I read this book outside at the Ennui Cafe on Sheridan and Lunt in East Rogers Park, Chicago.
The weather was beautiful, the lake perfect.
I read this one quite long back...
and really loved it at that time.
It is common knowledge that childbirth in humans is much more painful than in animals because of the larger size of the head due to an enlarged brain: thus, could the story of Eden contain a veiled reference to evolution?The second is a sentence: "The absence of evidence is not evidence of absence." Spoken in the context of missing fossil records, I remember thinking at the time that this could also be applied to God!
I feel strongly that this book should be included in mythology courses because better than any textbook I've ever encountered it addresses the connections that exist between mythology and science. Not to say that mythology is scientific, but rather the ways of viewing the world, both contemporary and historical, that human beings seem to return to again and again often are the way they are for very sound biological reasons.
Knjiga je jednostavno nevjerojatna. uz minimalno, ali stvarno minimalno poznavanje anatomije i fiziologije mozga-na razini osnovnoškolske biologije- čitatelj može pratiti razvoj građe i funkcije ljudskog mozga, uz savršeno smisleno i logično objašnjenje naših strahova, ponašanja, snova, uspjeha i neuspjeha. preporučeno svima.
Pure bliss. In the inimitable manner of Carl Sagan, engrossing, enlightening and amusing in equal measure.

Да яздиш дракони в Райската градина: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/d...След мечтата за Вселената, събрана в “Бледа синя точица”, дочакахме със скромните четирийсетина години закъснение и още една от книгите на великия Карл Сейгън – “Дракони в Райската градина”. От погледа към Космоса той ни насочва към поглед навътре – към нас, към мозъците ни, към еволюирането ни като вид, който осъзнава себе си и може да променя света, както и да търси разум не само в другите видове, живеещи с нас на планетата, но и сред звездите.Издателство "Изток-Запад"﻿http://knigolandia.info/book-review/d...
This is simply the best book I was lucky enough to receive as a gift. Written thirty years ago, Sagan's principles in science, philosophy, and humanity seem to grow more valid as the years go on. I used to be an existentialist nutcase in high school, but this book straightened me right out. I can't wait to re-read this beauty
كتاب علمي رائع وممتع ومسل بكل صفحة من صفحاته.. معلومات قيمة عن الإنسان وعن العقل البشري، ادهشني الكاتب بهذا الكم الهائل من المعلومات من جهة وجهة اخرى بسلاسة طرح هذه المعلومات!ياله من عالم رائع
This intuition could have been supported by the observation that infants of human and non-human primates are born with an inherent fear of snakes, and this fear could plausibly be related to perennial rivalry and hostility between reptiles and mammals, and consequently giving rise to the aforementioned myth.The book begins with a rudimentary introduction of evolutionary theory, mutation, accretion and propagation of favorable mutations, information content of the DNA and how it manifests itself in living beings and their apparent complexity; eventually arriving on the evolution of brain.
"To write a book in a subject so far from one's primary training is at best incautious. But...the temptation was irresistible." That quote, found in the acknowledgements, sums up both the problems with this work, and also it's ironic charm. You must read this early work of Sagan not as definitive science, but as a prime example of his inimitable ability to connect science to other intellectual concerns such as myth, religion and history, thus stimulating thought in the process.At least Sagan is
You must read this early work of Sagan not as definitive science, but as a prime example of his inimitable ability to connect science to other intellectual concerns such as myth, religion and history, thus stimulating thought in the process.At least Sagan is completely honest: the subtitle itself indicates these are "speculations" which presumably have not been verified.
Each player is given a dial that permits him to intercept the ball with a movable "racket".
Points are scored if the motion of the ball is not intercepted by the racket.
As a result of Pong, the player can gain a deep intuitive understanding of the simplest Newtonian physics - a better understanding even than that provided by billiards, where the collisions are far from perfectly elastic and where the spinning of the pool balls interposes more complicated physics.This sort of information gathering is precisely what we call play.
Carl takes you on a journey from the mountains to the oceans, from dinosaurs to extra terrestrial beings to explain evolutionary changes and the workings of our mind.
; is it ok to kill apes who are in all probability as human as any of us and the one I enjoyed the most - when is it ok to take life in terms of abortion, mercy killing as well as mammals and animals.
I hope you enjoy it as much as I did.
Any book on the brain written in the 70s is going to be outdated. For example, Sagan wasn't sure if different parts of the brain affected different things. But an enjoyable read. He does make one important point clear early on: the "mind" is just a function of the brain. Dualists who think they are two different things are flat out wrong. I have had people look me straight in the eye without even blinking and say that if a person's brain were destroyed, their mind would still function normally. That's always an end-of-discussion comment for me.

