https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12751687-finale
There has been alot of hate going on for the series/books with all the "hate review" going on and I totally respect all or your opinions since there is something called "freedom of speech" and "voicing your opinion".
I totally get that and I don't have anything against you guys but some people are not just voicing there opinions, they're straight out bashing the books and the author.
I'm happy because the Hush, Hush, series won't end yet and I'm sad because I have to wait another WHOLE YEAR till the fourth book comes out, but I'm still EXTREMELY HAPPY!!!!!!!!!!
I simply loved this series.
I will miss you Pat h!!!!!PEOPLE ..........GET A GRIP.
YOU ARE COMPLAINING BECAUSE A PUBLISHING COMPANY IS PUBLISHING A FORM OF ENTERTAINMENT THAT IS SELLING.AND BY THE WAY, HERE IS THE KICKER.
If is sucks so bad to you, WHY do you buy the first 3 and read them ALL.
Books I do not like, I stop reading and toss them, then GUESS WHAT....I do not by the next in the series.
WOW, What a concept.The worst thing about another Hush Hush book is that we have to wait to read it.
I love me some bad boy Patch!!
I understand that the life of an author is a hard one, but whatever happened to the damn story?!It just sad.
Writing books should never be about just the money; it should be about making an impact on society, actually furthering your story arc, something, anything but swindling people out of their hard-earned cash on a book that really should never have been published.
Authors that actually have good, original, stories and put their heart and soul into their writing are turned down just because of today's pop culture; those millions of little idiotic girls screaming for the next Edward and Bella.
My love, my body, my soul—I place in your possession and protection.” He held out the ring, a single offering, a binding promise.” “You dress to impress," I said approvingly."No, Angel." He leaned in, his teeth softly grazing my ear.
At the end, Nora and Patch declare their love for each other in an Blood Oath.
I absolutely loved it.2)I hate Dante!!
He died protecting Nora!!4)I said that before but I will say it again!!!
And he died and she was alone again!!Okay after years she married but I wanted Scott with Vee!!!!!
Nobody is human!!!!8) In conclusion, I would like to say that I absolutely loved Patch!!!!
STAY TUNED (?) *** I think its a necessity that on every cover in this series Patch  has to have his shirt off.
And a man walks up to me and hands me the latest "Hush Hush" book.
"New book, really awesome." Man, I'm not going to let you poison me.
You can't give me Hush Hush man!At my high school with my so-called friend She hand me her book.
"Man, this ain't a book!
This is a sad excuse!" I THREW IT ON THE GROUND!
I'm SMART!Becca Fitzpatrick tries sell me her new book GROUND!
NOBODY WANTS YOUR SAD EXCUSE FOR A BOOK!
Oh, my damn. Now it has a pseudo cover with random scattered black raven's angel's feathers. OMFG. I think...I think... I'mgonnabesick
She goes clubbing.So she and BFF Vee are all up in da club when we are introduced to brand new character Dante: menacingly flirtatious Nephil, Nora's self-appointed PR manager and essentially wants to be seen as the Clegg to her Cameron (if you don't immediately think he has an agenda, signal your presence to the guard and get your ass back to preschool).After flirting with Nora for longer than is necessary, Dante tells her it would be a good idea to boost her media presence, show her under a positive light, give her new Nephilim army a reason to like her.
DNF.HAHA -- the cover models look like R-Patz (with Bruno Mars hair) and K-Stew (with a bit of a 'fro going).How fitting.Finale. Really. What an anticlimactic title.C'mon, guys. Really. We all know Becca could've summarized the three things that happened in SILENCE in the beginning of this book and kept it a trilogy. Things would've worked much better that way.F#@!. Really? She really can't stop at number 3? I seriously doubt I'm going to read this. She really couldn't finish in Silence?It really bugs me when authors do this.
(view spoiler)[It's sad that Scott dies as he was one of my favourite characters and I wish that we could have gotten to know the guy Vee marries three years later although I guess that's not really all that important.At the beginning of the book I liked Dante and when I found out he was the guy being all evil I was rally upset but he turned out to be a bit of a dick so I don't mind so much anymore and I'm glad Nora kicked his ass.
My journey with this series was one I enjoyed very much and I hoped would last forever, but alas, all good things have to come to an end....but at least Becca Fitzpatrick knew how to make a lasting impression with her fourth and final book.
I feel like my love...ok...that’s a bit extreme....maybe, great like, for Nora has grown over the series alongside her strength.
In Finale, I didn’t much like the fact that Patch was absent for a great deal of the story.
I loved Scott in this book way more than the others as he tried to help Nora when she was in trouble.
The book is packed with action, it is angsty and it is full of twists.The only strong reference point is the love of Patch for Nora:“Did you know, the first time I saw you, I thought: I’ve never seen anything more captivating and beautiful?”“Why are you telling me this?” I said miserably.“I saw you, and I wanted to be close to you.
Should we feel sorry for Marcie?We are in the middle of war for the Nephilim and the fallen angels; so except betrayals, deaths, tears, unexpected backstabbings and devious mind games.Nobody will be the same in the end of this book.Overall I really enjoyed this young adult series!
It was a pretty damn awesome end, but I did have a few issues with certain plot points, though.
All I see is people bitching about this book.
I have a simple solution: DON'T READ IT IF YOU'RE THAT UPSET OVER THERE BEING A FOURTH BOOK.I would have been pissed if she ended Silence the way she did without there being this book to tie things up.
I don't know how people would have been satisfied with that ending.But it seems a lot of people hate the series and keep reading.
That makes no sense to begin with...---Just finished the book and lol.
I made a ''WTF'' face a lot, especially towards the end.
But I'm glad the series didn't end with Silence.
A good conclusion but I am so upset about my favorite character!!! :-((view spoiler)[Scott! RIP!! :-( I loved him! (hide spoiler)]I'm with everyone else when I say WTF?! 4th book in the Trilogy?!?!?!?!?!?After reading Silence there is a lot still open but I thought that was the last book. I can always use some more Patch and Scott though.
Okay, so, Hush Hush is kind of quiet.Crescendo is really loud.Silence is....silent.SO WHAT CAN YOU POSSIBLY CALL THIS?
Semi-Sorta-Loud-Stormy-Angsty-Silence?And by the way...OH, SO NOW IT'S A SAGA?
It started with the Twilight saga.
And now the Fallen saga.
And now...I can just picture B-Fitz's conversation with her publisher.Fitzpatrick: Look, looky here!
I can finally stop writing and sit on my piles of dough in peace!Publisher: Now, now, dear.
We can make it a saga!
It's called Finale.
And when the sequel to Finale comes out, I'll be here, laughing my ass off.EDIT AGAIN: He doesn't own a shiiiiiiiirt!
Okay, everyone has now expressed how infuriated they are that there is a fourth book to this series, now I am going to put in my opinion.
Yes, I am ecstatic, in fact it is taking a lot of physical restrain to type this in but, by god, when I realized that there was a fourth book I screamed so loud I think my neighbours have call the police.
Of course I found out about 3 minutes after finishing Silence so I was very deflated that the book had ended like that with so many gaps and questions but I knew it was the end.
YES!!Okay, I am going to leave on that note.
You know what? This is a really amazing series. Everything about it is enticing and intense. I find myself pushing these books to the top of my "to read next" pile, and when I open them up to read at night, I can't seem to stop thinking I'll just read for another half hour...So when I was checking out the Goodreads page for Silence and under the "Books by Becca Fitzpatrick" thing, I saw  FINALE(HUSH, HUSH #4)  I think I probably started screaming my head off with joy. But when I click on the lin
And I have my reasons...1) If you have this huge issue with her writing, you wouldn't have continued after book 1 (It's called Hush, Hush, 'case some of you people forgot)It happens all the time.
But she's got more than enough people on board with this series, so that's VERY good (COUGH, COUGH New York Times Bestseller COUGH, COUGH 2) Why the heck did you care enough to come here if you didn't think you'd like it before you read it?
For anyone that wants to read my melt down before the book came out, click the spoiler.
Because they secretly love the books.(im telling myself) Second .
Third,  I love that Becca made a fourth book, but it could've had a better title.
Five,  Patch isnt like any other guy in books.
I dont want another Twilight book.
WE DONT WANT YOU HERE (by we i mean hush,hush readers that ACCTUALLY like it and approve of BECCA's choices with it.
Things I like: The suspense; PATCH <3; ScottPATCH & SCOTT I LOVE YOU!So, goodbye Hush,Hush.
He finds out you took Nora for a ride, he’ll wrap this shiny new Porsche around the nearest tree.” some of the quotes i love of Patch“And I need you, Angel.
More than I think you’ll ever know.” -Silence“You’re mine, Angel, and don’t you forget it" -Silence“I’m not going to kill you, Nora.
I like that, Angel.” - Hush Hush“Angel… I don’t think you understand the lengths I would go to if it means keeping you here with me.” - Silence“There’s only one thing I know for certain anymore… That I would do anything for you(...) I would lay down my soul, for you.
Obviously you like it enough to read every book they publish, and then even more to log onto this website and write 9 paragraphs about how much you hate it.
THEN search to see the next book, and write a review about how much it's going to suck.
I don't wanna see that you think the series is dragging out.
Id rather not read twilight wanna bes over and over because that's what most series are turning into.
I could see if she was repetitive, or if there was nothing exciting going on, but that's not the case at all!
So anyways, I'm excited about this book!
Spoiler Free Review4.5 STARS out of 5Genre: YA Paranormal RomanceSeries: Book #4 in Hush Hush Series 'Scott didn't like the answer he kept coming back to. If Nora had done this-If Patch had helped her-It didn't matter how carefully they'd covered their tracks. They'd miss something. Everyone always did. It was only a matter of time.'  ~Inner monologue of ScottFinale starts with Nora stepping up as leader of the Nephilim. Well trying to at least, she is met with heavy opposition. Not only is it w
Cheshvan is the one time of year angels can posses the Nephilim after forcing them to swear fealty.
Nora made an oath that could cost her and her mothers life if she does not lead the Nephilim against the fallen angels.
~Inner monologue of NoraNora and Patch stage a break-up to convince the Nephilim she is 100% on their side, while Patch finds out everything he can about the fallen angels plans.
I highly recommend this series to anyone who enjoys YA-PNR's.My RatingsCharacters- Patch and Nora are Lovable but I hated a lot of the othersWriting Style- GoodPlot/Storyline- Suspenseful with lots of twist and turnsSteam Factor- PG-13Overall- I loved it!
Nora grew up so much and her relationship with Patch was undeniable.
I loved how new characters were introduced without it seeming awkward and how old enemies popped back up unexpectedly.
I would definitely re-read this series!Patch and Nora have been through a lot.
Hank screwed Nora over by making her swear an oath to lead his army or her mother would die.
Now she has to pretend break up with Patch to keep up appearances with the nephilims.
Nora's arch enemy convinces her mom to let her move in with them making Nora's life that much more hectic.
This started out good, but the pace really killed it.Nora was both strong and weak in this book.
Strong because she was intent on finding a way to please both the angels and the Nephilim, and weak because she ended up with a bit of a drug addiction.The storyline in this was about Nora trying to fulfil her oath to lead the Nephilim, whilst still dating Patch, and trying to keep that a secret.
The pace in this was really slow, and while it was good in places, the pace really killed it for me, and I got a bit bored.The ending to this was okay, although I was really bored by that point.6.5 out of 10
My opinion on Nora during this entire book: Go ahead, Nora. Ignore everyone's advice. Drink more of the 'evil-demon-magic' potion and screw everything up. Go ahead!! SEE IF I CARE.________________(The 'WHEN I FINISHED' REVIEW:)I finished Finale. I reached the end!Fortunately, there is no 'Encore'.But now I have finished it in one sitting I realised that it's...HOLY MOLY IT'S ALMOST ELEVEN O'CLOCK!!Sleep calls.Dreams call.And Patch will hopefully be in every single one of them.Adios and sweet dre
My opinion on Nora during this entire book:
Go ahead, Nora.
Ignore everyone's advice.
Drink more of the 'evil-demon-magic' potion and screw everything up.
Go ahead!!
SEE IF I CARE.________________(The 'WHEN I FINISHED' REVIEW:)I finished Finale.
I reached the end!Fortunately, there is no 'Encore'.But now I have finished it in one sitting I realised that it's...HOLY MOLY IT'S ALMOST ELEVEN O'CLOCK!!Sleep calls.Dreams call.And Patch will hopefully be in every single one of them.Adios and sweet dreams - I'll review this end to the series tomorrow, when I'm functioning on less than seven hours sleep, trying to keep my eyes open whilst craving coffee.
Dear lord .And we all thought the cover of Silence was bad.
Wow. It's actually over.*sighs* What a journey.The first time I read Hush, Hush back a couple years ago, I fell in love with it.
But the best parts were when the secrets were revealed - I had my theories, and some of them turned out to be true.As for Nora...*sighs*.
I'm really glad she's not one of those characters who sit back and let others walk all over her, but the way she talks back to them and the things she says don't make her sound any better than them.
Wow. I really wished that this series continued, just so I could read more of his smexiness.
I haven't yet read the third, but I'm kind of hoping Patch has already drowned Nora in the ocean at this point (otherwise the cover has lied to me).In that case, since this does not yet have a title, this book should be called 'Sunk'.
UPDATE 27/4/12So the summary is out."Nora is more certain than ever that she is in love with Patch.
And Patch is the one for her, fallen angel or not.
UPDATE 11/7/12The cover is out, and it clearly depicts Nora about to jump off a cliff.
Okay.....sooooo........PATCH IS BRILLIANT AND THAT'S ALL YOU NEED TO KNOW SO GO READ THIS SERIES!Jk.
I KNOW for sure he rocks cupid wings and a halo.This book was also written nicely, one of the many aspects I look at because if you have crappy dialogue, who wants to read that??
So if you worry about books with too much dialogue, here you go, cause you just can't get enough of Patch.
This was a well paced romance that led through all four books, so, haters of insta-love, try it!Overall, this book was a fantastic read with witty dialogue and awesome action!
I can't wait to see how this finally ends. This better be the best book in the series! And Patch better be on every single page.
THIS BOOK! THIS SERIES! ugh love it so much
