https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124675.The_Secret_Seven_Adventure
Adore these books 5 stars 🌟
famous five were better;)
I don't recall reading this book before; as I said in my review of book one, The Secret Seven were not my favorite of Enid's books. I'm reading them all again now though, and I don't doubt more of them will be new to me. I found the mystery different and exciting, but as always got lost in the myriad of sameness from the characters. A fun series, just not her best work. Four stars.
The author is no other then Enid Blyton.The Secret Seven have got nothing to do that is until they are playing American Indians in Little Thicket.
While Peter, Janet, Jack, Barbra, Pam and George are after Colin, he is in a tree.
There was other characters like John the Gardner and the circus folk but they weren't that important.The main locations in this book were Little Thicket, in which we saw the thief for the first time and I found the area interesting.
A location in Little Thicket was Milton Manor which we saw frequently but we didn't see inside unfortunately.
for smart children the secret seven really are kind of stupid sometimes.
The Secret Seven go to the circus24 October 2012 Do you know the feeling when you are travelling through the country by car and are looking out for a certain town or a landmark and then suddenly realise that you passed it two hours ago? Well, I got that feeling with this book. I started reading it at 8:00 am this morning, finished it at 8:00 pm tonight, and worked for eight hours in between, as well as having a beer with a friend. Okay, you might say that I am a fast reader, but I am not. Seriou
The Secret Seven have a meeting and decide to play Indians (because they have no adventure to go on).
Their investigations lead them to a circus where they discover a couple of acrobats were involved, and then inform the police: mystery solved.
The Famous Five go on adventures however the Secret Seven solve mysteries.
With a mystery there is a lot more investigating and puzzle solving involved.
Once again this differs from other mysteries that I have read (Sherlock Holmes and Biggles) where the information is fed to you as they protagonists work it out.
I read this book a LONG time ago. I don't remember much but all I can remember is that it is a very exciting book for all ages and being that it is Enid Blyton, it is one of those books that you can just look at and know it's going to be good
This book was the best of all of the secret seven.Its about a stolen pearl and the secret seven wants to be the first to find the thief.Why?because they saw him making his escape.Now all they have to do is ......you should discover that.
I enjoyed the book a lot! Even though I'm a few years older than 8, I still enjoy reading Enid Blytons books!
AMAZING!!!A priceless pearl necklace has been stolen - and the Seven witnessed the thief making his escape! But where has he hidden the necklace?
good book i really liked it but its too slow that is why i am giving it 4 stars
This one was a fun little mystery, although some aspects were predictable. However, I expect that due to it being aimed at not just children but young children.
My 7 year old loved this being read to him at bed time and I enjoyed the nostalgia trip!!
How do u read the book im new to goodreeds
But where has he hidden the necklace?'I loved this book.I have recently been re visiting some Enid Blyton classics.
This is the second Secret Seven book I have read recently and I absolutely loved it.
I can remember loving these books as a kid, but reading them as an adult is a whole new experience.I found this book much more in-depth then the first one.
I loved getting to catch up with the Seven and Scamper for an exciting new adventure.I had honestly forgotten how amazing these books are.
The Secret Seven Book 2*The Secret Seven Adventure* This is another good addition to the series and a totally different one from its predecessor.
Some features of the novel are the Red Indians game and the Circus crew and location, which play a very major role in the second half of the book.
The book rather builds a good story but fails to build that 'Suspense' atmosphere!
The progression of the book is nice, but predictable.
A good adventure novel with an interesting story.
Nice Reading!
Author: Enid BlytonIllustrator: George BrookFirst Published: 1950Series: Book 2 of 15Mystery and Adventure books.Why did I let these fall off our reading lists?Perhaps because it is difficult to find one that is both age appropriate and well-written.
But it satisfies a need within her to read of logical process and solution.I saw an interesting quote on a blog:Life is confusing for kids: Everyone’s taller than you are, you don’t know the rules, and most jokes go right over your head.
Sutherland http://mystery-writing-vergil.blogspo...He goes on to provide a list of "The 9 Best Mystery Books for Kids".The Secret Seven isn't in it.But they do what we want.
Enid's world is magical! Reading these books again brings back many fond memories! We couldn't afford to buy these books back then. I remember scrounging around libraries and kabaadi waalas for used copies. Never got to read these books in order and never the whole series. Well, it's never too late to right a wrong! Geronimo ...
I have the full series of the secret seven . To me these books transport me back to my childhood instantly . When a priceless necklace goes missing the secret seven are first off the mark to catch the thief . Why ? Because they saw him escaping the crime scene .
(Review for the series) The children enjoy these stories and ask for the next instalment. The books are OK but I don't love reading them aloud. I think I read them when I was younger. I prefer the Famous Five - maybe these are aimed at a younger audience.
This is the best secret seven part to my knowledge The authors admirable twists in the book at the end has no words to describe This book can be compared with the Sherlock Holmes seriesI would recommend everyone to read this book
I love the book!!!
I loved this book as a kid but it really doesn't hold up now as an adult!
The kids in this come across as total prats, and the 'mystery' itself is weak. Written for youngsters yes, but not stupid youngsters.
Interesting and exciting and has to find a lot of clues.
Revisiting the books of my youth out of a feeling of nostalgia! I loved Enid Blyton when I was younger and can't wait to re-read these with my own children.
Can’t get better than Enid Blyton
Easier to read than Famous Five and good mystery series for emerging readers. Some really obvious clues that the seven don’t seem to pick up but good fun.
it was good
Secret seven series....such a bliss these books are.The books that made me start reading...
