https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37647561-a-killer-s-mind
3.5 stars “Corniest serial killer ever.”A Killer’s Mind is an entertaining, easy to read thriller about “the corniest serial killer ever.” This book is full of snarky characters, wacky murderers, and quirky characters (including a cat and fish).  Zoe Bentley, a forensic psychologist who consults for the FBI, has a unique connection to her job. She loves what she does for a living, which allows her to get inside the sick and twisted minds of psychopaths and unlock their motivations in hopes of h
3.5 stars “Corniest serial killer ever.”A Killer’s Mind is an entertaining, easy to read thriller about “the corniest serial killer ever.” This book is full of snarky characters, wacky murderers, and quirky characters (including a cat and fish).
When a serial killer in Chicago begins embalming victims, Zoey, along with agent Tatum Gray, are brought in to help local police stop the sick and twisted killer before it’s too late.Told in alternating point of views, this is a fast-paced read that doesn’t waste any time getting into the nitty-gritty of the crimes.
A serial killer novel that flips the genre on its head, Omer keeps the reader guessing throughout, in a piece that loses no momentum the deeper the plot.
Those who love serial killer thrillers (what a tag-line for the sub-genre!) will want to keep this one on their list.With the rise of certain television programmes, FBI profilers tend to be protagonists that are appearing throughout novels of this genre.
I found her to be not only well-grounded throughout the investigation, providing both a serious and lighter side, but also to have a lovely, if dark, past as a teenager, which surely got her interested in all things serial killer.
Despite their faults, I found myself liking both of the characters.Mr. Omer tells the story through multiple eyes, giving us a chance to experience the story from Zoe and Tatum, as well as sharing occasional glimpses of the killer.
This is a story that you can sink your teeth into, and I never got the feeling that the author would let me down by introducing surrealistic twists or having Zoe or Tatum do things that were drastically out of character.
The book tells the story of FBI consultant/psychologist Zoe Bentley and her work assisting the FBI and Chicago police in working the case of a serial killer with the worst nickname ever —-“The Strangling Undertaker.” Bentley is assigned to work the case with FBI agent Tatum Gray, who is an enjoyable cut-up and the antithesis to the no-nonsense, no-fun, all work Bentley.
The book alternates between the current case and a case from 20 years ago (when Bentley was 14) in which Bentley was personally involved in solving a different serial killer case.
Personally, I believe this is why I enjoyed the book so much.
Pretty good but predictable ending.A Killer's Mind was one of those kindle books that jumped at me.
Well, I end up having trust issues with myself.In this book, you will meet Zoe. She basically grew up around murder mysteries.
In the town she grew up in, three murders happened.
and I was trying to figure out if there was more than one case or murderer in this book.
Again, my mind was all over the place in this book and still the ending was predictable!
and the bear poked back.I can't wait to dive into the next book.
An FBI serial killer book, interesting characters, that I liked for the Chicago setting.Some of the best mystery-thriller Chicago books are authored by Sara Paretsky--suggesting readers start with those if they haven't already read them.
A KILLER'S MINDI loved this book, it was my pick of the Kindle First books for July- I did not even have to agonize over the choices this month, loved the brief description.Zoe and Tatum make a great team, albeit not exactly willingly. There is a lot of humor spread throughout the pages making this a fun read even though it's about a serial killer. Looking forward to the next book.
The book is a real page turner, and I can't recommend it enough for all suspense-murder-thriller lovers!The book came to me as a freebie with 'prime book of the month', and I literally picked it up in a whim!
😂The book tells the tale of 'Zoe' a forensic psychologist, who works in conjunction with the FBI, in trying to solve an ominous serial killer.
Omer flashbacks constantly, and gives the reader tidbits of Zoe's past and the murders involved in her childhood...the results are powerful and completely relevant to the present story.
A Killer's Mind, easily surpassed ALL my expectations and provided non-stop suspense thriller, and a nasty serial killer that doesn't shy away from 'Hannibal Lecter'!
A Killer's Mind was boom shakalakabambam. It was a fantastic read. Its one of the best thrillers I've read in a while.
The forensic psychologist, Zoe, was quirky and had few social skills, but this worked to make this more interesting than the standard whodunit serial killer story.
The book never gets confusing and the flashbacks were integral to understanding more about Zoe. I did figure out who the killer was before the reveal, but that didn't impact the enjoyment of the story.
Note to the author  Mike Omer, when that happens, I hope that it is handled with the right amount of awkwardness on Zoe's part and the complimentary amount of patience, understanding and sarcasm from Tatum.
Really liked the beginning. Then the story took on a perverted unclean feeling. To much 12 year old boy junior high mentality. Listened with TTS. Not Clean. Crude and Foul Language.
I picked this up on Kindle First and had no expectations of it. This was an intriguing story about a serial killer who tries to embalm his victims to keep them with him as long as possible.Zoe is a psychologist who is working as a profiler with the FBI. She met her first killer at the age of fourteen, but no one took her seriously. As she gets closer to this current killer she starts to see a connection from the person who got away from her when she was a teen. Will people listen to her this time?
She has been fascinated by serial killers since coming into contact with one, when she was fourteen.
Tatum and Zoe are sent to Chicago to consult with police about a bizarre serial killer known as the Strangling Undertaker.
He's already killed at least three women, and shows no sign of slowing down.This story takes place in 2016, with several flashbacks to 1997.
There were a few minor details that were irritating, like placing a dead body in the trunk of a van.
What model of van has trunks?
Overall though, the story kept my interest, and I would try another book by this author.I would give this a P.G. rating.
I didn't "like" A KILLER'S MIND by Mike Omer, I LOVED it! Hooks. Cliffhangers. And an incredible twist (or seven) kept me riveted to the pages—with a blanket nearby to hide under when it got too intense!
I feel this is how all thrillers, crime, and mysteries should be written.
I found the characters endearing and made you care what was going to happen to them next, the story draws you in with not just the investigations and crimes but also the humour, character interactions and the amazing twists you do not see coming, there was even a “ oh my god know” moment that pushes a thriller from good to extraordinary.This was a truly excellent book and I would highly recommend to everyone, I can’t wait for book 2.
The entire situation would have never worked.
Zoe would have never been a suitable replacement for his current victim as she was badly beaten from a previous altercation.
The author basically contradicted his entire book at the end.
Zoe would have known based on his profile that her body was in too bad a condition to interest the killer.
The author should have spent more time crafting an ending instead of setting himself up for a series.
It would have been a much higher rating if the ending flowed with material set up through out the book.
A really well written crime thriller with an original concept, I sailed through it and have already pre-ordered part 2!Something very Silence of the Lambs about it - which is praise indeed. Edge of your seat stuff, believable, gripping, a great read.
I found it questionable (I like that word) that Glover happened to be in Chicago the same time as Zoe. Obviously, he'd been there for a bit since he'd killed a few women there years prior.
Like it's one thing to say what kind of toy he played with, but to further state that he'd take the hair off...what would have been the point of that unless it was the author's hint.How did Zoe ever think that Clifford could have been the killer?
4.3 Out Of 5 "Profiler" STARS A Killer's Mind is morbidly fascinating and generally creepy.
I had some issues with the way some elements played out and some minor believability issues, but nothing too major.
I really like stories about Profilers, I find the whole process quite intriguing.
Narration by Brittany Pressley was very well done…I liked the way she did Zoe's accent, making it more pronounced when she was agitated.
☆4☆ for overall because I believe this would have been top notch if they had a male voice for the male pov's.Series~ Zoe Bentley MysterySetting~ Chicago, IL, Dale City, VA, & Maynard MASource~ Audible Audiobook๏๏๏
DNF @ 103 pages.The novel really isn't working for me. The premise is interesting, but the writing so far reads as shallow and cheesy; and all the characters come across as juvenile, which is an odd feeling when they are supposed to work in law enforcement. Zoe, especially, is introduced as an expert in her field, but she sounds like a total hack most of the time. It's very hard to believe her observations have any value when she whips them out without having investigated... much of anything, really.
I am on the fence as about reading the next book (thank you Mike Omer/Amazon for making it clear this was the first in a series).The majority of this book is set in present day, but there are a few chapters that take place in 1997, when Zoe is a teen and there have been multiple killings in her small town.
And for all of her accolades/highly respected/professional...she suddenly becomes convinced that no one will believe her theory and decides she needs to go it alone (ah yes, the rogue agent, I'm sure nothing could go wrong).Thankfully Tatum has more personality, but he is a bit of a "bro": cocky, always right, thinks he can charm his way into getting information.
Zoe is a forensic psychologist consultant to the FBI and works with their agents.
The chapters alternate between Zoe's past, when she developed the desire to become a forensic psychologist, and her present case.
The new case takes her and a new agent from the BAU to Chicago.
Politics make things more difficult.
Zoe works hard and tries her best to figure out how to catch the killer and save lives.
There are various problems which slow things down but they slowly make progress.
There is a new twist at the end which sets things up for another story.
I need to feel their emotions, and care about what happens to them.
Mike Omer brought me characters I immediately connected with and cared about.
The author drastically overuses the words 'bit' and 'very', to the point where I was editing the sentences as I read.
Each word appears roughly 100 times in the book.
It's an easy fix, because his writing is quite strong, and I only mention it in the hopes that the author and/or his editor will catch and correct this habit in book 2.
I'm looking forward to spending lots more time with these characters!
Hasta la mitad fue un libro "bueno", divertido incluso a pesar del tema que trata (como estar en un episodio de Bones)...el último tercio el ritmo se intensificó de una forma que no pude parar de leer.
This book had by undivided attention from start to finish. I found myself entranced in the characters and counting down the minutes till I could open the book back up. The way the chapters are written and Zoe and Tatum's chemistry—Mike is really on to something here. Im looking forward to the next book.
This has to be one of the worst books that I have ever read.Full review coming soon.
love Love Love love this book!!!
I’ve been up since Midnight trying to finish this book, so please forgive me if all of my thoughts aren’t coherent and for the possible run on sentences.I was so excited for this book.
I’m an absolute SUCKER for books about FBI profilers and I will forever blame Criminal Minds.
I thought I would devour this book, but instead it was more like an aggressive snacking rather than a full on annihilation of a meal.
Although, whether it was the nature of having a complex mystery and trying to sort out the clues or just my subconscious needing more drama..:something kept me from binge reading this book.
Women are being killed, embalmed, and posed at various places around the area.
Zoe ends up working with Tatum Grey, an agent, to try and find the killer.
Intense to the point it had me sitting on the edge of my seat at the end, it kept me turning the pages wanting to know what happened.
By embalming the bodies he could keep them as companions for a longer period of time.
I really liked Zoe and Tatum and while they didn't always see eye to eye, they ended up making a good team.
Loved the author's writing style and the way the words just seemed to flow from the pages.
So this is a murder mystery. Three women were foud strangled, embalmed, and posed as if alive. Zoe is a great person. She is a hunter and she wants to catch her prey. Special Agent Tatum Gray is annoying and they have to go and try to work together to achieve their goal. The pace of the book was amazing. The sexual tension is interesting, and I was not expecting that in a murder mystery book. I will probably pursue this series and read the other books.
