https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2702658-the-ladies-of-lyndon
I loved him and his story, I loved Dolly even more, and I love that Margaret Kennedy put the ideas she explored here – about a family’s response to someone ‘different’, about how that affected their life, about how they might bend social convention – at the centre of her last novel forty years later.Agatha was perfectly suited to the position at the centre if the story.
She especially good at handling the undertones of social interaction- the drama of saying the wrong thing when all eyes are at you at a dinner party, the backhanded compliments of dueling mothers, the girl who cannot form an opinion before knowing what her husband thinks of something, the way that men used to be much more free to conceptualize and box up women into a corner, and the reasons behind why women, whose lives were meant to be limited to marriage and children, might seem to have a deep emotional investment in things that aren’t that important.
When Agatha Cocks marries Sir John Clewer, she becomes one of the ladies of Lyndon, the Clewers' country house. She finds her marriage unsatisfying and looks elsewhere for love, with a former lover, and friendship, with her brother-in-law James, an artist regarded by his family as mentally deficient and eccentric, particularly when he forms an unorthodox relationship with a housemaid. Though the writing is elegant and engaging, I thought the infidelity subplot rather predictable; the bits involving James, though, are excellent and make the whole book more than the usual high-society-marriage-goes-bad plot.
The Ladies of Lyndon was Margaret Kennedy’s first novel, coming a year before her best known work The Constant Nymph. In this novel Margaret Kennedy explores themes she would revisit later in The Constant Nymph; unsatisfactorily matched partners within a socially conventional marriage, fidelity and artistic temperaments.Read full review: http://heavenali.wordpress.com/2014/1...
This book is entertaining but I didn't love it.
I had really high hopes for it because I love Margaret Kennedy’s writing.
In this early novel there were elements of her style, but the plot was just lackluster.
I didn’t feel drawn toward the characters we spent the most time following.
And in light of that, I had a hard time getting invested in their problems.
I found myself pushing toward the end just so I could read something else.
Then the ending was ambiguous and a let-down.If someone’s considering this book, please for goodness’ sake try to find Kennedy’s books Lucy Carmichael or The Feast instead.
Actually 3.5 stars.The Ladies of Lyndon is not without its flaws (bumpy jumps in time for instance), but, at its heart, it is oh so charming and amusing in a Noel Coward kind of way.It's the kind of very English writing that I love - a type of comedy of manners, full of class consciousness and social conventions.http://bronasbooks.blogspot.com.au/20...
Another Virago.
Acerbically funny . A feminist PG Wodehouse !

Did they simply copy an out of print book instead of resetting the type?What a mess of a novel, and how worthwhile to push through all the chaos!In this first novel, Kennedy is trying out her voice.
The childhood friendship/puppy love of Gerald and Agatha is contrasted to the forthrightness of James' and Dolly's attachment.
She, uncharacteristically, sees through Agatha's limp expression of love for Gerald to the truth of who she is, who her mother made her, and who she will always be: an expensive ornamental wife.
Kennedy wasn't a skillful enough writer to figure out how to explore this without giving the mother a brain transplant.Never mind.
I think English readers will get much more out of this book - very surprised by many of the reviews on here. It is in no way a "small domestic novel" or simply a country house book but a focused study of the catastrophic effects of the Great War on English society and institutions.
I liked this much better than Kennedy's famous The Constant Nymph, but was rather frustrated by the ending, which felt liked it just trailed off rather than stopping on purpose. I think Kennedy wanted to leave things ambiguous, but it unbalanced the book for me. Still, it is quite a fine first novel, and left me wanting to read the rest of the author's output, which is always pleasing.
This is a wonderful "country house" book with ladies marrying into wealthy famlies to the satisfaction of their mothers. However it is also full of interesting unusual characters who are potrayed with a great deal of subtetly. Some very amusing situations shine a light on the changing social conventions of the time.
Well-written, but the combination of social comedy and romance left a rather bitter taste. Perhaps we were never intended to sympathise with anyone?
