https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/449343.Up_the_Line
Time travel headache feels like ice cream brain freeze.Paradox, paradox, discontinuity, paradox, transposal displacement, paradox.Nothing for a reader to do but drink a beer and keep reading.Robert Silverberg wrote this libidinous, vulgar carnival ride in 1969 and it was nominated for the Hugo Award.
A fascination with and an adept knowledge of Byzantium colors Silverberg’s canon and this work characterizes that affinity as much of the novel is of history tours of Constantinople.
Up the Line: Fornicating in ancient Byzantium – shameless time travel pornOriginally posted at Fantasy LiteratureRobert Silverberg was clearly a big fan of sex back in the late 1960s, and I’m sure he wasn’t the only one.
He doesn’t miss a chance for his (all male) characters to fornicate with women at every possible opportunity both in the future and the past, in dozens of exotic time periods in Byzantium, Constantinople, Rome, etc.
The act may be as old as time, but that doesn’t stop Time Courier Judd Elliot from trying to bed his great-great-great grandmother Pulcharia with a lusty enthusiasm and complete disregard for all social taboos that have existed for millenia.
Let's keep this simple....1) This book has not aged well.
It's almost laughable today, but maybe it seemed trendy back in the 60's.2) The amount of sex in this book is really very unfortunate.3) The historical descriptions make the book of interest, but are also a bit dry.4) The plot doesn't really make an appearance until the last 20% of the book or so.
It tempted me to rate this book one star higher, but I have resisted.
5) The time travel gimmickry may have been cutting-edge back in the day, but today's audience is a bit more savvy.
I like time travel books, and so I was actually looking forward to this piece of boring, dated, sexist drivel.
His fourteen year old son, meanwhile, is frequently screwing a woman ten years his senior during the morning orientation sessions this small band of time-traveling tourists gets from their increasingly irritated guide.
He's grumpy because he would rather be sneaking back another century in time to screw a distant relative named Pulcheria.
(Did Silverberg get these names from A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum?)The book is untroubled by plot until the last fifty pages or so.
You know my favorite thing about reading time-travel books is the paradoxes.
I like a good yarn with a lot of temporal paradoxes.
And this had a lot of those.It also had a lot more Greek history than I cared to know.
You know your Byzantium history.
He didn't, in other words, need to know the future tech he wrote about.
It therefore stands out as a solid novel, and - seriously, no pun intended - stands the test of time.
Wow. I think I'll just skip the history lessons next time.Oh, and as a side note - this guy talks about breasts more than I do.
I'm starting to think that, sometimes, 1950s SF holds up better than 1960s SF, especially the 1960s SF that extrapolates the society of the swingin' generation into a future that's full of tie-dye, love-ins and general grooviness, babe.Sadly, 'Up the Line' suffers from this.
I say 'sadly' because when I first read this book (in the mid-1970s ...) I enjoyed it immensely.
On this re-reading, I find that the years haven't been kind to this tale.
The good stuff is still good - great historical background, nice&knotty time travel paradoxes, Silverberg's usual deft characterisation, but some of the other stuff was wince-worthy, especially the race relations and some of the depictions of women.
A peculiar book, containing some delightful time-travel shenanigans and some of the very best science fictional handwaving and lampshading ever written about the paradoxes involved.
Truly, that section of the book is a glory and a wonder.
A scene in which the narrator angrily forces sex with a semi-willing woman is uncomfortable enough, but the way in which an adult male pedophile's constant physical overtures to a 12-year-old girl are painted as a sort of merely comical nuisance to both the narrator and the girl's father (!) is just unsavory as hell.
This book was selected as our monthly pick for our Time Travel Book Club on Goodreads.
The book gets a little bogged down in the middle with pages and pages of Byzantine history that at times is about as exciting as reading an encyclopedia.
The excessive sexual content throughout the book might also turn off some readers.
This book would have been just as enjoyable with a "PG-13" rating instead of "R." I'm giving this book four stars primarily based on its time travel content and its imaginative ending (which some might argue is a little unorthodox).
I like the Time Patrol element of this novel, making sure time tourists don't cause paradoxes and historical changes. I've not seen time travel approached from a tourist aspect before. I also liked the creative ending. I can't say I've seen such an ending before, so nicely done. However, I think Silverberg forgot he was writing one of his sci-fi novels rather than one of his sex novels, and made this a bit rated X in parts. The ideas behind the story get at least 4 stars, but the creepy incestuous parts take it down several notches. Ew.
В началото ми беше тъпо. Не това, което очаквах. Ако не бяха последните 50стр. щях да дам 2/5 оценка. Ще имам ревю в блога си до няколко дена!
This is a ludicrous book, truly, it is a bizarre and incredibly dated read which includes the best and worst of timetravel stories, often on each page.
The main character's desire to bang a distant descendent of his I found completely bizarre and increasingly unpleasant, but it wasn't so much that as the fact that it felt as if even the author wasn't quite sure why he'd decided to put that bit in there, being as he's constantly trying to make it more explicable from the moment the idea crops up.
It isn't particularly palatable to read now, but I'd say an author writing such a character now would caveat those aspects every bit as much as Silverberg here does the incest taboo.
This guy thought that a hundred years in the future people would still be using the stupid slang of the day.
Even better he shamelessly puts himself in the fantasy as the main character- a short of stature, always hip to the scene, sexually adventurous NY Jew who just can't work for the Man. So this guy is a tour guide for time-travelling tourists that go back to watch battles, coronations, and other moments of interest.
At one point he is pursuing his own great-many-times grandmother.
If anyone would have told me some weirdo from GR was going to get me to start reading more Sci-fi and actually really liking it I would have laughed in their face.
Loved.
Loved.
I've read a lot of snarky reviews for this one and I'm not really sure why.
Maybe it just takes a lot to offend me, because not one thing in this book bothered me a bit.
There are also a lot of people saying this is very dated.
Can you imagine writing a time travel book in 1969 and coming up with half the shit in here?
All in all an immensely readable book that I LOVED.
Jud Elliott bails on his job as a law clerk, moving to New Orleans in 2059.
He blunders into a job as a Time Courier, taking tourists "up the line" (into the past) to Byzantium, one of his few areas of interest and knowledge.
His mentor Metaxas helps bring teaches Jud how to bring the past to life for tourists, but also builds himself a comfortable life in the past, risking discovery and sanction by the Time Patrol.
He encourages Jud to sleep around with women in the past, leading Jud to fall in love with an ancestor.
Then, Jud begins to make mistakes and paradoxes result.
read this 3 times. I generally hate sci fi but was recommended this book by a family member. though it can be offensive, the story is amazing and the mental visuals of the ancient times described are addictive. An excellent though not for everyone book. Very hard to mentally take in a lot of the paradoxes though reading it a couple times seems to make it easier. I had trouble putting this book down.
Fa gràcia que la hi hagi massificació de turistes en moments claus (la crucifixió de Crist és un descontrol) i que la màxima aspiració de gairebé tots els viatgers sigui el turisme sexual.Després de passar el primer terç de la novel·la explicant els fonaments del viatge temporal amb una de les millors concepcions d'aquest que he llegit fins a dia d'avui, el protagonista comença a fer de guia especialitzat en Bizanci.
A més, el protagonista s'encaparra amb una rebesàvia seva i perd el nord per traginar-se-la.La qual cosa ens porta a un desenllaç dels bons: paradoxes temporals, duplicacions, línies interrompudes, multiversos i tot el que es pot esperar d'una novel·la de viatges en el temps, traçat de forma brillant per Silverberg.Em queda un dubte, però, i a partir d'aquí, es podria considerar spòiler.
Ugh, I need a shower!I love Time Travel Stories.
Perhaps if I was a 17 year old boy this book would have “done it for me” but as it is, it was just overthetop stupid.
But can we just take the author’s word for it and move on with the story?
Ugh, it was so geared towards boys with pimples.
(Also, there were a lot of objectionable sexual references to children which just disgusted me).It’s all so frustrating because it just took up space in what was otherwise a great fun time travel adventure.
Това е третия роман на Силвърбърг за мен и за трети пореден път съм много приятен изненадан.
Изключително интересна история, която те кара да се замислиш върху някои неща.
Джъд е времеви куриер и работата му е да ръководи екскурзии във времето.
Специализирал се във византийска история той има възможност да посети тази държава в най-интересите моменти от историята ѝ.
Същевременно ще трябва да се справи и с цял куп времеви парадокси, които буквално замайват главата и изправят цялата физика на нокти.Изключителен роман с крайно необичаен сюжет.
Въобще типичния Силвърбърг.

Another novel by Silverberg.
I can't even really put an adjective in front of that 'novel' to describe how I feel about this one.
By any other author this might be their top work, but for Silverberg it's just middle of the road right out of his most productive years.
One quality about the novel is that it really shows its age and its presence as a piece of New Wave science fiction from the 60s and 70s.
The gratuitous sex and Silverberg's vision of the future is fun to read but borders on the comically gratuitous.
A fun read.
I really love time travel stories, and of course, the method of time travel is what really interests me; I think it's one of the most interesting problems an author can solve.
This one is a little vague in the "how", but it does get into a lot of interesting questions about what happens if a lot of people time travel to the same events.
The explanation isn't totally satisfying, but it works for the story.
Oh, this is a little raunchy, too, but not too gratuitous.
When the protagonist has the revelation that sex is completely different when you're with someone you're in love with, it made me want to yell, "Duh!"
Garbage.
An intriguing premise, but way too much unnecessarily graphic sex.
The main character is a lecher who's every female interaction is entirely sexual.
He stops at incest, but otherwise not a passing thought for a woman's emotions or personality or character.
Women are for men's amusement, according to him.
Disgusting.
A shame, because the title concept is a rather good one.
But it comes at too high a price.
I stopped reading this halfway through, fed up with the gratuitous sex.
Don't bother polluting your mind.
Skip this one.
Or better yet, do as I did, and throw your copy away.
Up the Line was an enjoyable time travel romp; it was interesting to read (and imagine) witnessing some favourite events in history, and the problems with backwards time travel becomes one of the driving plots of the story, BUT...what's with all the crass and gratuitous sex?? I know this was written in the 60's but it was really over the top and just cringe-worthy, bordering on tasteless when there's mention of underage girls. This brought the enjoyment down a peg or two; average overall.
An interesting conceit bogged down by excessive mentions of the protagonist's sexual prowess. It turns out that the number of times I will put up with an author describing how a character wants to boink his ultimate grandmother while time traveling in Byzantium is actually quite small. The history aspect of the novel was cool though!
Me apetecía leer algo de viajes en el tiempo y Arena me recomendó éste. Pues nada lo he leído y esta realmente bien. Además no sufre de envejecimiento, es más diría lo contrario nosotros sufrimos de envejecimiento, el tratamiento del sexo en esta novela es realmente libre no como en la actualidad. Respecto a los viajes en el tiempo pues lo habitual, "parajodas", follones varios, divertido.
I had to check a couple times to make sure it said 'Silverberg' and not 'Heinlein'. But gradually some indescribable essence of it made it seem like the sexism was more a product of the times than that of a man who would be a misogynist even today. Then it was pretty fun.
Ok, certains passages sont vraiment scabreux, même pour du Silverberg. Malgré tout c'est un excellent roman de voyage temporel, surprenant et amusant, érotique, par moment scandaleux. Difficile de lâcher ce roman, une fois ce voyage engagé.
A 'romp' through the paradoxes of time travel. Not my favourite Silverberg. I'm reading my way through an anthology of four novels from the 70s. Next up, Nightwings.
I read Up The Line as a kid of about 13 or so. I recall it being absolutely fantastic. Not so sure what I'd rate it if I re-read it today or how it has weather the last 25 years or so. But man, if you're a kid that loves sci-fi & time travel - this book is fan-freakin-tastic!
A very engaging story but I can't really get with the scientific conceit this author prefers for time-travel. I'm into the many-worlds approach where new timelines are split off by the intrusion of time-travellers.
