https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/765811.The_Women_of_Brewster_Place
While some may see Mattie Michael as the neighborhood busybody, it is evident that all key neighborhood decisions go through her, and she is the first stop for anyone in search of a positive mental attitude.Naylor paints the picture of real people as she defines the African American women experience during the late 1970s.
Kiswana also decides to return to school to obtain her degree.While Mattie is the matriarch who holds Brewster Place together, a real busybody named Sophie threatens to turn neighbor against neighbor.
This short story collection had all the makings of a book that I should not like.
So, when you have all of those hang-ups and can love every page and hang on every word of a book, then I'm convinced that the author is some sort of genius.
My very first status update while reading was,"The devolving of a community in three generations and six pages." I thought it was a brilliant way to set up the book.
If that wasn't impressive enough, I realized after the book club discussion that in the same scene, it was love that took form for other readers.
They came together, propositioned, bargained, and slowly worked out the consummation of their respective desires.Naylor’s construction of Brewster Place’s beginnings seems like a plaintive evocation of a story that already lives in the crevices of a bygone past.
Lorraine’s and Theresa’s existence in Brewster Place seems to have been reached after a past inundated by escapes, from society and its disapproval of homosexuality.
And it is Brewster Place that remembers this narrative of individual alienation and communal intimacy, imparts it the dignity it deserves, the refuge it needs, as the lives and stories of its coloured daughters unfold.
Addition to review added at bottom.The Women of Brewster Place is absolutely phenomenal! Of course it's phenomenal because Gloria Naylor wrote it and her writing is nothing short of amazing. This is an absolutely perfect read for me. I didn't rush through it because I wanted to enjoy it. When I grow up, I want to write like Gloria. Her stories are enthralling. Her writing style is so figurative and spot on your mind immediately has these vivid images of who these characters are how they flow w
Addition to review added at bottom.The Women of Brewster Place is absolutely phenomenal!
When I grow up, I want to write like Gloria.
I want to mention that eons ago I saw The Women of Brewster Place as a made for TV movie.
This books the 7 star perfection score from me.(5 GR) I can't wait to read The Men of Brewster Place and the rest of Gloria's books.
I truly did/do love this book but Gloria's writing blows my mind!
One simply and necessarily needs to read this book to experience the story and Gloria Naylor's mastery.
The Women of Brewster Place is a powerful collection of intertwining stories surrounding the women who live in an urban housing development. Through seven lives we see decades of history - what brought them to the Place, coming north (the city isn't expressly named, but a few geographical clues in the text make the reader think it is New York) looking for opportunity, love, acceptance and social action. Exploring the nature of relationships between friends:  Sometimes being a friend means master
Through seven lives we see decades of history - what brought them to the Place, coming north (the city isn't expressly named, but a few geographical clues in the text make the reader think it is New York) looking for opportunity, love, acceptance and social action.
Sometimes being a friend means mastering the art of timing.
The last few stories of the book are particularly hard to read (view spoiler)[because things get very bad...
I will definitely read more of Naylor's work.--Book Riot Read Harder 2017 Challenge " A collection of stories by a woman" category
Oh man, those last few stories though.
I fell in love with the recently-departed Gloria Naylor through these interconnected stories. Lesser writers leave clichés leaden and unexplored on the page; here, the stereotypes of African-American women's lives are transfigured into fresh truths—joyous and tragic—about race, gender, class, and sexuality: story-truths that go deep, speak volumes.
She placed her dreams on the back of the bird and fantasized that it would glide forever in transparent silver circles until it ascended to the center of the universe and was swallowed up.”Really good books create a world that you live in for a while and then never forget.
This is a really good book.
Each story in this collection focuses on a particular woman, but expertly woven together, they make a world.
The first story flies through time in a way I have never read before, touching down just in the right places.
All of the stories tell something so true that it’s shocking.
Wonderful writing. My third time reading it and it is just as memorable. Check out my gushing review on my site a few years ago: Black Woman Writer Warrior Reading List
I didn't like that it was written in seven stories.
I couln't tell at first rather they were supposed to be short stories or if they would tie together at the end.
And if (view spoiler)[tearing the walls down at the end was supposed to clearify some sort of spiritual healing it was weak because I didn't see it.
But I had to give up an extra star because for some reason I cared about the characters and the story was interesting so I kept reading.
I loved Cora Lee's character because it's relatable in the sense that I know so many people like her.
A candid and beautiful novel told in seven stories.
A celebration of women's strengths and struggles as they love, reminisce, hope, envy, hate, deny, anger, and rejoice in the confines of the thin walls of Brewster Place.
There is a key scene in this novel when a woman loses her child and is cleansed and comforted by an older woman the morning of the baby's funeral.
There's a raw, almost amateurish feel to this novel and that's what makes it so unpretentiously important.
Like reading someones unedited thoughts.
It moved me, but not as I was reading it.
*exhales dramatically*Y'all this novel/collection of intertwined short stories blew me away. It wasn't so much the stories themselves (although I enjoyed them- the last story nearly took me out even though I saw it coming), but the way they were written. MY GOODNESS! I hope to revisit it again and again.
This was a short story novel about seven women who live in the fictional Brewster Place. Each of the women brings a new type of heartbreak to the page and somehow manages the strength to go one and come together as a community. Some of the stories were a little predictable, but not in a bad way. This was Gloria Naylor's first novel and I was definitely impressed and plan to check out more of her work.
As for the rest of the women, they had their strengths and weaknesses, but I didn't find myself caring for them that much.The thing that annoyed me the most about this book was the fact that every single male in it was portrayed in a bad light.
I understand that there are plenty of men that are like this, but it is so very unlikely that every man that these women have ever interacted with were hurtful.Another thing that bothered me was how depressing this book was.
This was a nice little read, I see the T.V. movie did not stray too far from the book with the ecception of the ending. The book presented a good range of different kinds of women and how they interacted directly with one another. What I loved most about Gloria Naylor's writing of this book was her ability to inject humor in just the right places and timed just perfectly. I recommend this book for a nice weekend read.
I don't know how many times I have read this, and to be honest I do not care. Mother Naylor passed away on October 3 and I read this book again, crying all the way through it. To read more of this review click here
got this in the mail. a friend had got it for me from paperbackswap.com I thought it would have been a thicker book I read it in one sittingI have seen the movie to this book
It is a massively sad novel.The Women of Brewster Place is about what the title describes, the lives of a group of women living in a shared block.
And in the final main chapter every (surviving) character comes together for a block party, climaxing in a surrealist scene of demolishing a wall that keeps Brewster Place (and, symbolically, its people) from the mainstream of life.Framing the stories is a very short pair of chapters about the city block.
The Women of Brewster Place is about poor folks, no matter what bad book jackets say.
The Women of Brewster Place was an intersting novel to read.
Gloria takes each woman and places them in the same home, Brewster Place.
They all have a story to tell in where it explains why they are where they are, their plans to move on, and hidden insecurities and fears in life.
These women had many similarities, but the most important while living in Brewster Place was hope.
Every individual women had hope to leave Brewster Place and make a better living for themselves.
For example, Loraine struggled to keep her hope of being accepted for being a lesbian.
I enjoyed The Women of Brewster Place and indeed do recommend it.
I should stop saying I don't like short stories. Edwidge, Junot and now Gloria are making a liar out of me.
I Love this book, all the women of Brewster each have a story to tell regarding living in bad condition.
no men to help them.
It also shows how one is treated differently when living among other people and that still happening today.
I love the writing style as well as the story and characters.
I can not wait to pick up her next book.
There was one quote which sticks to me and that is “Time's passage through the memory is like molten glass that can be opaque or crystallize at any given moment at will: a thousand days are melted into one conversation, one glance, one hurt, and one hurt can be shattered and sprinkled over a thousand days.”
What a lovely book this was. It consist of small chapters of various people living in Brewster Place and it is sad and beautiful and cruel. I wish I could find a copy of The Men of Brewster Place. I am sure it will be just as good.
As we move into each woman's own section, some of the women that we have learned to love from the previous stories are revisited; relationships are more firmly established; each character is eventually reexamined from a different perspective.
This culminates with the final story, "The Block Party," during which the women of Brewster Place gather and come to truly understand their community's decay.Some thoughts about Lorraine: (view spoiler)[I continue to be horrified by the routine abuse of lesbians in fiction.
(hide spoiler)] I don't know, but I love this book for being so thought provoking; its characters and their relationships so complicated.
They all have a story to tell and the stories are told one by one, chapter by chapter as we get to know the people, sympathise with them and thank whatever we believe in that WE don't live in Brewster Place.The book is a novel and is entertaining but is also a social commentary, making the point (without preaching) that we are all human and that prejudice of all kinds: racial, socio-economic and sexuality being the main ones, are not only wrong and pointless, as they cause social problems but never solve them, but can also have devastating consequences that last forever.
That structure, where related things come together piecemeal to form a whole, is really appealing to me.
I also like the women of the story, who all have their own struggles with various form of oppression, violence, you name it but manage to stay distinct and interesting characters.It's a little odd to me how basically every single male character is either a total jackass or totally useless.
But there are some amazing parts too, and it made me cry (though of course I'm a sap about these things) and I'm definitely glad I read it.
For centuries women has always been secound class citizens to men and or less superior and in this novel Gloria Naylor depicts the issue at hand.
Brewster Place is a run away home for women who want to escape from the harsh realities of home in hopes of a better more effecient life.
In one of the six stories told in this novel Mattie is a run away single mother who left home because she did not want her parents to know that she's pregnant at a young age.
I seriously loved this book of interconnected short stories about women whose lives eventually bring them to the same low income housing development.
Sometimes I am disinclined to embrace books that are a series of chopped up short stories, as they can lack the continuing narrative that makes a book really compelling, but this was totally an exception.
Each short story was so poignant and beautifully written, and I appreciated how the characters featured in each chapter made appearances throughout the book, often at different points in their lives, when their paths crossed others from Brewster Place.
Wonderful exploration of black womanhood in America. Last year I managed to only read books written by/about women of color, and though I plan to diversify my reading this year, I'm glad I chose to start 2016 with Naylor and the women of Brewster's Place. 4.5 stars.
Coming soon...
A gorgeous novel with compelling characters and several interesting plot lines. I enjoyed most how Naylor effectively utilized symbols which could very easily have been cliche.
