https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/666644.An_Introduction_to_Philosophy
A different kind of introductionDespite being called 'An Introduction to Philosophy' really the book is an introduction to the philosophy of Aristotle viewed through the lens of Thomas Aquinas.
Copleston gives a rather unbiased history which Maritain's 'Introduction' makes no attempts at presenting opposing philosophical positions but rathe disproving them using Aquinas and Aristotle as the hammer and anvil on which all others must be re-forged.Of interesting note is Maritain's opening section on 'Pre-Philosophic Thought' and his discussion of Indian and Chinese thought (with a small section reserved for the Persians).
Celle qui se soumet à la théologie, non pas dans ses principes, mais dans ses conclusions et qui, par elle, est gardée d'erreurs grossières et qui, par là même, est dirigée plus facilement vers la vérité.
Celle qui progresse par pure logique à partir, non pas à partir de postulats arbitraires, mais à partir de vérités connues par soi et indéniables sans entraîner une absurdité immédiate.
Celle qui admet qu'il est difficile d'atteindre la vérité, mais que c'est chose possible et qui encourage à l'humilité et la discipline.
Mais non pas humilité qui s'oppose à la certitude des conclusions atteintes.
Great for making accessible a host of philosophical language from the Aristotelean-Thomist tradition
I was hoping for something that more vividly demonstrated Jacques Maritain's Aquinan training. This is an okay basic introduction to analytic philosophy, but I see little use for it outside of 1950s classroom instruction.
Maritain made me reassess the bad press which has been heaped on "common sense" in our time.Another much maligned concept Maritain feasts on is metaphysics, which is in practice natural theology, that part of philosophy that points us to God without the help of divine revelation.
However, this is the type of collateral damage that Maritain gladly accepts because the force of Aristotelian philosophy is that it makes sense and its concepts are...intelligible.
No matter how many foreign-sounding concepts Maritain parades, there is nothing that the reader does not already know somehow.
Have read and read from this marvelous book several times. In fact, I'm trying to learn French, to read it in the original.
Very good overview of philosophy. If I can only retain what I've read.
Good book for what it does.
I am not a Truly Authentic Catholic Traditionalist because I enjoyed this book. Lord help me. On to Charles De Koninck I guess...
A book that I read back in my college days when I was deepening my interest in philosophy, especially Thomism.
