https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11366397-the-program
After having some time to think, i made the overall conclusion that this book is the most frustrating and saddest book i have ever read.  The Program is set in a world where depression and suicide are considered a virus. If you are thought to have caught the virus, the handlers come to get you and take you to a facility known as The Program. Little teaser..I look back at James one last time, and he gives me his signature smile, wide and cocky. But it's not real. Sometimes i think it's never rea
After having some time to think, i made the overall conclusion that this book is the most frustrating and saddest book i have ever read.
The Program is set in a world where depression and suicide are considered a virus.
She knows their love is strong enough to survive, to withstand anything.
Having anger problems/issues it wasn't a good nor healthy idea for me to continue reading.
I DESPISE reading about helpless characters that just can't fight back.
I think what was the best about this book was the romance between James and Sloane.
Overall  The Program was a satisfying and captivating read.
At least part of the story, but I know it might come in later books so I'm gonna work past it.
Sloane's brother fell to the epidemic, he "caught" depression and ended up killing himself.
So Sloane and her brother's best friend James had been in a relationship and this part of the book was actually pretty good.
Because they come back with no memories and everything is squeaky clean and new.It's pretty predictable where the story goes.
If you want a cookie cutter book this one might be the one for you.
The only redeeming thing I found in the whole dang book was no insta-love.
Making suicidal thoughts and depression a disease to further the plot in a dystopian book is something I am not okay with.
And I am sure some misinformed people believe depression and suicidal tendencies are already contagious - we don't need a fictional book to further that point.
There are so many great ways to shed light on mental illness and this book did none of those things.Other unrelated issues: there was some instalove and overall the characters were pretty not great.
The fact that the book is fiction does not change my opinion that it's irresponsible and unrealistic (particularly in a science fiction novel, which is supposed to be based on scientific fact) to portray mental illness in the way it is shown in The Program.Books don't usually piss me off, but then I don't usually read books as poorly researched, offensive, and misleading as The Program.The premise is that suicide is claiming the lives of one in three American teenagers - an epidemic.
Although it has a little contemporary feel to it more than most, and the plot direction it takes is different from the expected and clichés "run and hide from the big bad government", in the end I still felt that it was yet another dystopian novel that doesn't particularly stand out from the rest.A little reminiscent of Delirium, The Program involves teen suicide and how its become an epidemic, and the cure involves wiping them out into a clean slate.
I just really didn’t feel like it was Young’s intent to explore suicide as an issue; instead her intent all along seems to be for The Program to be the evil government conspiracy doing bad things to Sloane and her friends disguised in this case as suicide prevention and treatment, and it just didn’t feel right without having some sort of effective alternative; Sloane doesn’t want treatment and she doesn’t really want to kill herself either (at least when she’s not sick), but what should she do then?
4 madly starsImagine a world where teenagers are in danger of themselves. A world where teenagers kill themselves and suicides are contagious.  "If all your friends jumped off a bridge, would you, too?"Apparently, the answer is yes.  To prevent this situation, the school district made the Program. Handlers will take anyone with suicidal tendencies. They will lock them in their institution and there they will take away their memories. When they get out they will be sent in a private school design
A world where teenagers kill themselves and suicides are contagious.
Sloane and James are a couple who is against the idea of the Program.
This book was one hell of a ride, my friends.
I can't really say what happens at each, but in the second part we're also introduced to Realm, a person who becomes an important part of the book and I still don't know what to feel about him.
If you have read the Asylum by Lily White, let's just say that this reminded me of that book.
I really loved James and Sloane, they were so amazing together.
I’ll make this quick and painless like ‘DeathQuik’.^^ It’s a cheesy, gooey, melodramatic love story in the guise of a dystopian novel with a futuristic setting in which people are plagued with an epidemic that makes them want to go and kill themselves.
Don’t bother with the whys because you won’t get any.
Just go along with the story and the half absurdity of it all and I’m sure you’ll enjoy.
Lol. If you don’t like that kind of stuff I’d say you skip it but if you gather much enjoyment and entertainment out of them like me, then go for it.
This is one of my new favorite books.
And I mean it's a top favorite.
I can't even explain how much I love this book.
And I was right there during every second of his battle.
It was really devastating, and something I don't like to remember very often, but this book brought me right back to that.
I don't know if I would have picked up this book if I knew that it would, but wow...
(I may or may not be ordering the sequel on my kindle right this second to dive into it.
http://southernbredsouthernread.blogs...I put off reading The Program for so long. I had really no idea what it was about and I haven't truly known anyone whose read it. It's been in my TBR pile for about four months if not more. So I finally picked it up. I wish someone would have recommended this to me so I would have done it sooner. The Program was a a huge surprise.  With suicide rates at and all time high, and it being considered a disease you have to be careful of what you say or do at all
The Program reminds me so much of Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, one of my all time favorite movies, except you don't have a say in if/what you have erased.
After her brother and best friend Miller commit suicide things go way down hill emotionally for our two protagonist Sloane and James.
Both Sloane and James are taken at separate but almost same times after they both have melt downs.This story was so intensely sad and the characters were even more so.
When they start to explain how the program works they also uncover Sloane and James' past.
ABSOLUTELY FANTASTIC.
Sloane, lives in a world where anti-depressants have been banned, after her brother committed suicide she couldn't even mourn because that would've have gotten her flagged and sent away to The Program.
At least that's what the adults see.For Sloane, going to The Program would be losing her entire life, it would mean losing the only boy she's ever loved.
The thing about this book is that yes it's a dystopian, but to be quite honest it reads like a thriller.
James is the sweetest, jerk you'll ever meet, he loves Sloane with all his heart, and I felt that from just reading the book.
Concept is absolutely awful, makes a joke of eating disorders and depression like everyone can magically get infected for no reason.
The opening of the book feels more like an erotica, then the middle turns into this unrealistic stupid crap about the PROGRAM, which scientifically and legally makes absolutely no sense.
But with all of the legal things aside, and how this would never, ever happen in the future or in an alternate universe, lets consider all of the lazy routes she took with this book.
NO explanation for why her brother killed himself aside from him being "INFECTED" which dilutes a serious mental illness down to it being contagious or happening at random.
Suicide rates are higher than ever in the time period for this book.
If you know someone who died that is bad and if you dare contact with someone just out of The Program, WATCH OUT!The Program is there to take away teens that an adult considers a suicide risk (see the paragraph above for what can quickly get you there).
I can't say too much without spoiling things so I will leave it off there.Now I get that suicide is bad.
I get wanting to get it under control but there is one thing that is in this book adults seem to have no control over.
Ne mükemmel bir kitaptın sen öyle! Program şu son zamanlarda okuduğum en iyi distopyaydı sanırım -özellikle konu bakımından- hatta favorilerimden birisi oldu an itibariyle. Serinin ilk kitabı böyleyse devamı nasıldır diye düşünüp sabırsızlanıyorum :')İlk sayfasından itibaren merakla ve keyifle okudum. Tempo hiç düşmedi, özellikle son bölümlerde tam bir distopya tadı vermeye başladı diyebilirim. Yazar tabii ki hiç acımamış ve okuru meraktan öldürecek bir yerde bırakmış. Yine devam kitabı beklemekten ciğerimiz solacak ama olsundu. Bu kitabı okuyun. Cidden. OKUYUN.
This book is really good and it’s truly not just about depression and suicide, but more about hope.
If I had to sum up in one short statement what Suzanne Young is trying to convey, I’d have to say she was clear about sharing how important it is to not lose sight of who you are and what you cherish.The concept is pretty severe; and like I said, it took me a while to get into the right frame of mind to jump into the book.
Con una trama originalissima, uno stile di scrittura accattivante e dei personaggi coi fiocchi non può fare altro che annoverarsi tra i miei libri preferiti e lasciarmi trepidante in attesa del secondo.In un mondo dove il suicidio è una malattia, vivono due giovani innamorati: Sloane e James.
Ci sono stati molti momenti in cui leggere questo libro è stato quasi "doloroso" (view spoiler)[Alcuni esempi: quando Sloane ricorda il suicidio del fratello, la depressione di James, la guardia (di cui ora mi sfugge il nome) che molesta Sloane e la costringe a baciarlo in cambio della pillola per potersi ricordare una piccola e minuscola parte di lei, il suicidio di Miller, Sloane che perde lentamente tutti i suoi ricordi, etc.
Who ever has these symptoms will be taken into the program where their memories and anything that made them sad, angry, happy will be wiped away, these handlers say it's like having a new life 'a clean slate' but what happens when they come out and they don't remember anyone or anything?
Well Sloane wants to avoid this, she wants her memories, she wants to remember her brother who sadly committed suicide rather than being taken into the program, she wants to remember and be happy with her boyfriend and love of her life.
Third, Sloane doesn't love Realm, she states that to the reader but she stays with him and lets him call her "sweetness".
Personally, I don't like reading books that depict the main character as a needy, dependent on boys female, who can't think for herself.
I felt as though the only reason her character was like that was to express how true love will find a way.
And if you are to express it in that way, it could have been just fine done with a more independent character, while making the story a more entertaining read.
“Don’t say that,” he snaps. “Don’t even think of it.” He lets go of my hand. “I’ll kill myself before they ever take me into The Program.” This was an okay story, and I liked parts of it (mostly the romance), but the pace was very slow, and it dragged a bit.I felt quite sorry for both Sloane and James in this story. Both of them had lost Sloane’s brother who was a best friend to both of them, and to lose other friends too, it really wasn’t a nice situation for them to be in, and their depressio
“Don’t say that,” he snaps.
“Don’t even think of it.” He lets go of my hand.
This was an okay story, and I liked parts of it (mostly the romance), but the pace was very slow, and it dragged a bit.I felt quite sorry for both Sloane and James in this story.
“They’re taking my memories,” I whisper to her.
“They’re erasing me.”
The storyline in this book was about Sloane and James ended up in the program, and what happened to them afterwards.
I found the pace really quite slow though, and the whole thing just dragged.
Those under the age of 18 are closely monitored for signs of “infection” (aka: depression) and if they are displaying the signs, they are taken to The Program, where their memories are erased and they are “cured”.Seventeen year old Sloan lost her older brother to suicide, which makes her high risk herself.
In addition to my own suicide attempt, I’ve lost two friends to suicide – one in 2006 and one in 2015, so I can also understand how helpless and guilty you feel when you learn that a friend took their own life, so through the first part of the book I really related to the characters in every sense of the word, and I kept getting super emotional about it and taking breaks from reading.
After finishing the book, I understood why Suzanne Young wrote those scenes, and I loved that she did.The idea for The Program was actually quite brilliant, but also a bit frightening.
It's scary that something as horrible as suicide could become an even bigger issue than it is right now, so much so that something like this has to happen.
The fact that it could happen in a mere 20-30 years from now is also so mind-blowing.
I swear, if anything like The Program comes into society, I will never let anyone send anybody there.
Plus if you push down emotions, they eventually have to explode like a volcano, messy and destructive.Also in The Program, your memories are wiped clean and this seems to equate with now being depression free.
There were a number of other characters that I enjoyed too and some I want to know more about.So as you can gather, I had lots of problems BUT I still feel it deserves 4 stars.
I know my review reads more like a 3 star review but trust me I still loved it.
I thought at first I wouldn't enjoy because the protagonist was already together with the guy...
but then I saw where this book was going and it was brilliant.
I fell in love with James just like Sloane.
Also the parts with the Realm were not at all sweet >> if he is a love interest in the next for a future protagonist I will not read it.
But despite the parts I didn't like, I did enjoy this book.
I know it's a mixed review but I think the romance is worth giving this book a shot.
Suzanne Young, Simon Pulse, and brainwashing. These are a few of my favorite things.
amazing amazing AMAZING!
This book sounds so good
Her character is all sorts of contrasting; shes rebellious on the inside, but is afraid to bring attention to herself; she is naive when it comes to some people, yet is able to see the corruptness (is that even a word?) of the Program; she wants to remember her past, and all of her memories (I'll hit that later, you have no idea), yet when presented with a solution to her...
It's talent to writ a book about a depressing subject and have the reader come out mildly happy at the end.
(For some random reason, I actually thought this book was about curing teenagers of "love", so I'm obviously mixing it up with something else.
My bad.)  I was pretty outraged by the book, actually.
I was sympathising with her the whole time, and ohhh my gosh, hug this poor lamb.
Although...I have a terrible memory and so it kind of scared me how Sloane was forgetting.
This is one book I'm pretty extra sure I'll love forever.
Nose Graze — Young Adult book reviews4.5 starsWowie,  The Program  book was awesome! Even though the synopsis hints at a love story, I didn't expect it to dominate the book the way it did. I think I expected more of a sci-fi than a romance, but I was pleasantly surprised to find out otherwise! This love story completely rocks. Imagine soul mates, destiny, "meant to be", love that knows no bounds.. but all without being cheesy. The Program  is completely effortless. I feel like it deals with so
Sloan and James are an adorable, super sweet couple, but they're on The Program's radar.
If The Program takes them in, their memories will be wiped and they'll forget about their relationship and their love.
I LOVED him!"I think I broke my femur," James says, as he lies underneath me.
kind of weird."Then when I settled into the second half, the book started focusing on a different element: if your memory was wiped, would you fall in love with the same person all over again?
An almost love triangle develops between Sloan, James, and Realm, and Realm was kind of a creepy bastard.
