https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1370.The_Persian_War
I'd enjoyed Thucydides in college but had avoided Herodotus because he was not cited as being as reliable as a source.
Applying for work at a great books college which required Herodotus, however, got me to read the thing and it turned out to be much, much more interesting than expected.While Thucydides comes across as a recognizable historian, Herodotus comes across as an elderly, well-travelled storyteller.
One imagines Herodotus making a living as a lecturer to enthralled, and possibly skeptically amused, audiences in his old age.
This book is one of the greatest gems of antiquity—a treasure trove of story piled upon enticing story which is a pure delight to read.
The themes are rich, the drama engrossing, and the twists and turns full of irony, and often humor.
To be sure, Herodotus' fondness for storytelling frequently gets the better of him; his digressions are many, and infamous for their multilayered depth.
But once you get used to it, and provided you take a decent set of notes as you read (or an index of names at the very least), this becomes more of an essential aspect of the works' charm than a hindrance or annoyance.
Enjoyable!
Awesome story about the rise of the Persian empire and the epic heroism of the Greeks in defending their homeland. Although Herodotus exaggerates a lot, it makes the story interesting so long as you take what he says with a grain of salt. I liked how this story offered an exciting new perspective on biblical era history.
This was the second time for me and this remains one of my favorite books of all time. It provides incredible insights into the ancient world that gave rise to the one we live in. Not much ever changes. It is full of sex, violence and other things to nasty to mention. I never found it dull. While I loved Thucydides and Xenophon, the Persian Wars remains the most compelling of the three.
Very thorough. Good description of life then.
It was ok. I'm a total douche for having nothing but that to say about Herodotus. Admitted. I know a bit more about things, but it wasn't much fun. Douche cred achieved x 10.
